April 10, 2020||Bareilly||Arjun Bijlani: Cooking is fun and I'm making good use of it during lockdown||Actor, Arjun Bijlani makes good use of lockdown and is up to one of his favourite activities that's cooking. In a chat with us, Arjun tells us about his favourite recipes straight from his kitchen that he's making on and off, during this period of lockdown. Arjun Bijlani says, "In regular shoot days, I don't get to cook. But in these time of corona and complete lockdown, I am at home totally. I like to cook and spend time with wife Neha and son Ayan. Generally Neha and Ayan gets up around 9 in the morning and I am an early riser where I get up around 6-6:30 am. So that' the time when after working out, I step into the kitchen and prepare some of my favourite breakfast recipes. Recently, I made punjabi chole and sabuchana khichdi which was a big hit. Cooking is fun for me and also these days bai's are also not coming, so it's all the more opportunity to cook my own way." Arjun also shared making scrambled eggs with grated cheese right from his kitchen with us. He finds it one of the healthiest and home-made breakfast items to have in the morning. He also shares his love for his mom's special poha, which he knows well how to cook. Watch Arjun Bijlani shares his favourite breakfast recipe straight from his kitchen during lockdown period||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/arjun-bijlani-cooking-is-fun-and-im-making-good-use-of-it-during-lockdown/articleshow/75073600.cms||Manyaekta Gugliani
April 10, 2020||Lucknow||Lucknow Police to question Kanika Kapoor post lockdown||Singer Kanika Kapoor, who was discharged from hospital earlier this week after being treated for Coronavirus, will now be questioned by the Lucknow Police following the FIR lodged against her by Chief Medical Officer (CMO), UP, for negligence. Chief Medical Officer (CMO) Narendra Kumar Agarwal, had filed an FIR against the Baby Doll singer on March 21 at the Sarojini Nagar Police Station under Sections 188 (disobedience of an order duly promulgated by a public servant), 269 (negligently acting in a way likely to spread the infection of any disease dangerous to life), and 270 (malignant act likely to spread the infection of any disease dangerous to life) of the Indian Penal Code. The singer had tested positive for COVID-19 on March 20 and had subsequently been hospitalised in Lucknow. Kanika had come to Lucknow on March 11 after she reached India two days earlier from London and had attended several social gatherings before testing positive for the disease. According to the Lucknow Police, the questioning will take place after Kanika completes her 14-day quarantine period post being discharged from the hospital. Speaking to us a senior police official of the Lucknow Police said, “We are as of now focused on the lockdown. Once this is over we will be questioning Kanika Kapoor. It is part of SOP or routine practice followed after an FIR has been lodged. It will be done within three months of the complaint being filed.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/lucknow-police-to-question-kanika-kapoor-post-lockdown/articleshow/75077603.cms||Iti Shree Misra
April 10, 2020||Goa||I got everything from football, now it’s time to give back: Carlos Pena||PANAJI: Carlos Pena has had to make difficult decisions throughout his 20-year professional football career, but the one he made on Thursday was relatively easy. As a boy growing up in Barcelona, it was his dream to wear the red and blue of the world’s most famous club. He came up through the ranks, played for Barcelona C, moved to Barcelona B and even made it to the first team when Louis van Gaal was in charge. His dream of making his Camp Nou debut was ever so close, when the coach got the boot. The new man in charge didn’t share the same opinion about the left-back and Pena, just 22, realised that he may not be good enough to make it to the star-studded first team. It was tough, but he moved on. Two seasons ago when Llorca were relegated, there was another difficult decision to make. Should he stay there and set things right or, for the first time in his career, move abroad. Of all the places in the world, India was an option. Again, another tough decision to make, but phone-calls to Ferran Corominas and Edu Bedia helped seal a move to FC Goa. On Thursday, after two seasons at the club where he emerged as the undisputed leader of the dressing room, Pena decided to call it a day. After 20 years at the top, it was time to hang up his boots and take up another challenge. While many never really know when their time is up, Pena’s mind never really seemed cluttered. “Sadly, few players can decide when to finish their careers. Sometimes careers end prematurely due to injuries or inability to find a club. Fortunately, I have been able to decide when to finish. “I was physically fit until the end, but not everything is about fitness. I think the mind is very important and deep inside I feel the time has come to put an end to my career. I have enjoyed playing and living my job, but now it’s time to think about other goals,” Pena told TOI in an exclusive interview on Thursday. The 36-year-old was clear what he wanted to do when he hung up his boots. Even when playing, he was busy learning from everyone around him, and when time permitted, dedicated himself to securing his coaching badges. Should anyone offer him a coaching job now, Pena will grab it with both hands. “I will not deny that being a coach is my next goal. I have been preparing for a long time, obtaining the necessary licenses and learning from everything around me. It’s time to give to football everything that has been given to me,” said the Spanish defender. At FC Goa, he has silently kept the team ticking for two years. His leadership at the back, alongside Mourtada Fall, has been undeniable. When coach Sergio Lobera decided to bring him into the playing XI and asked him to play in the centre of defence, it seemed a huge risk. But the foreign centre-back pairing helped turn a corner. From a fragile defence, FC Goa were suddenly rock-solid at the back, winning not just hearts with their tiki-taka play, but also points with solid defensive displays. “FC Goa gave me a very exciting and enriching end to my career. I felt great passion for football, and I have fought to win trophies, something very difficult in Spain. I also feel that I have helped develop football in India and that fills me with pride,” said Pena, who won the Super Cup for FC Goa, the club’s first and only trophy. FC Goa players will testify. Whenever anyone needed guidance, many of them turned to Pena. He may no longer be around, but you never know when he may be back in a newer avatar. If and when that happens, such is his stature at the club, he will be welcomed with open arms.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/i-got-everything-from-football-now-its-time-to-give-back-carlos-pena/articleshow/75073722.cms||Marcus Mergulhao
April 10, 2020||Lucknow||I can kill or get killed for my sister Shagun: Taapsee Pannu||Sharing a wonderful relationship with her sister Shagun, Taapsee says that it's she who gives a reality check on a daily basis. "After wrapping up a film, I have my sister when I come back home and she gives me reality checks on a daily basis. And after every film, I travel. I like that detox therapy travelling does to me. And almost always Shagun is with me when I travel. She's my travelling companion. She, along with a few friends at times, we all go to these alien places where no one knows me or I know no one. We just chill out and have lots of fun. No holiday of mine is complete without Shagun. Even now, we live in the same house and I won't have it any other way," says TaapsEe who keeps sharing these lovely pictures of the two on her social media handles. Taapsee and Shagun on one of their holidays (BCCL) Taapsee and Shagun on one of their holidays (BCCL) Taapsee Pannnu (BCCL/ Vishnu Jaiswal) Taapsee Pannnu (BCCL/ Vishnu Jaiswal) Sharing memories of her childhood, Taapsee says the two sisters stopped fighting at an early age. "The sibling fight, in our case, got over pretty early when we were teenagers because I once banged my sister's head on a table. The fight started on who will play the video game first, and me being the elder and bossy commanded to play first. So the fight in early teenage between siblings is regular, we often get hurt physically but it is always minor. But that day when I banged her head on the table and the sound of her head hitting the table was heartbreaking. Even though I did it, I instantly grabbed her and hugged her and after a few seconds when I looked at her, she had a huge cut on her face near her eyebrow, and my whole shirt was soiled with her blood. And I remember I froze after watching the blood. I remained numb till the time my sister was taken to the doctor. That day changed everything in my life completely. Uske pehle I used to think of her as a brat. We had that typical sibling rivalry before this incident." Taapsee had shared this pic of her with her sister Shagun on Instagram (BCCL) Taapsee had shared this pic of her with her sister Shagun on Instagram (BCCL) "But after that day I never touched my sister to harm her in any way. I remember after that incident, whenever my sister indulged in any fight baahar, I used to be the one standing like a mafia asking everyone 'who touched my sister'. I became a bully for others if anyone touched her or said anything to her." Taapsee and Shagun Pannu (BCCL) Taapsee and Shagun Pannu (BCCL) "And now I am at that stage where I can kill or get killed for her, so people now know that they can't mess with my sister. She is the only person who can make me do some really bad stuff," says the actress.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/i-can-kill-or-get-killed-for-my-sister-shagun-taapsee-pannu/articleshow/75071962.cms||Iti Shree Misra
April 10, 2020||Hyderabad||Telangana: Mad rush for disinfection kiosks, expert says no to bleaching agent||HYDERABAD: Disinfection tunnels are now in great demand from government offices to gated communities. However, health experts have a word of caution on using sodium hypochlorite as a disinfectant. They claim sodium hypochlorite, popularly known as bleaching powder, is harmful to humans and instead suggest use of only WHO-approved disinfectants. Several companies have joined the bandwagon to set up disinfectant tunnels. DGP and police commissioner offices are among the first set of clients for these companies. Dr Vijay Gopal of S3V Vascular Technologies said, "Disinfection tunnels are enclosed chambers with entry/exit point to ensure maximum coverage of the disinfectant aerosol (average size of 20 microns) on any surface. This will be an additional precaution to frequent hand wash, not touching the face with your hands and maintaining good hygiene." "Several gated communities are approaching us. Our first preference is to set up the kiosks for frontline staff like medical authorities and police. We are also going to set up the disinfection tunnels at all private hospitals soon. At the Telangana DGP office, to sanitise 200 people a day, it costs 1.2 lakh. So far, we have installed tunnels at offices of both Andhra and Telangana DGPs, Rachakonda and Vijayawada police commissionarates," he added.  Rachakonda police commissioner Mahesh Bhagwat said, "We have installed a safe tunnel for disinfection. The tunnel has been sponsored by a donor." "Sodium hypochlorite even in low concentration is not recommended for usage on humans. It has to be used only for cleaning surfaces, but not humans. It is banned in the US and Europe. It can be hazardous if used with other chemical as well," Dr Vijay Gopal said. "The Central Drugs Standard Control Organisation (CDSCO) has already released a list of sanitisers and disinfectants that can be used. The dilutions of these should be done only by qualified personnel. A few examples are chlorhexidine, ethanol 70% and surgical spirit. All these have to be formulated as per recommendations of regulatory bodies and WHO," he added. P Damoda Rao, a resident of Vaishnavi Towers in Sainikpuri said, "We are working on setting up a disinfection tunnel. The outer layer can be built by anyone, but what is important are the sprayers and chemicals to be used."||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/telangana-mad-rush-for-disinfection-kiosks-expert-says-no-to-bleaching-agent/articleshow/75080472.cms||U Sudhakar Reddy
April 10, 2020||Hyderabad||US citizens on the edge over repatriation flight||HYDERABAD: As another flight set to take off on Friday, United States citizens stuck in Hyderabad were getting last-minute confirmations till late Thursday evening. Some of them who have been holed up in a city hotel were on tenterhooks about their confirmation of getting on to the flight. One of the fortunate few who got an early confirmation was Murali Krishna Devarakonda who came to the city for work-vacation on March 5. Explaining his flight schedule, he said, "We are set to travel from Hyderabad to Mumbai at 4.15pm and at 10pm from Mumbai to Atlanta. From there, I have booked another flight to reach San Jose, which will arrive at 11.30am PST." Devarakonda moved into a hotel located in Banjara Hills on Monday where consular staff were meeting US citizens to process them and keep them posted about their travel time. Unlike Devarakonda, some others got confirmations till late Thursday. One passenger speaking on the condition of anonymity said consular officials were being overcautious and re-confirming travel plans repeatedly with some passengers. Having travelled to be with his father, who suffered a brain clot on March 7, the passenger said he was stuck with two toddlers in another district. "I had to use a police travel pass to get here. With the two kids working at nights has become close to impossible," he said. Describing his situation, the passenger said, "I have been staying at the hotel for the past one week and got a final confirmation on Thursday afternoon." Several passengers who were sent mails on Sunday about being 'top priority' had to wait till Thursday to get final conformation letters. Consular officials have been working round-the-clock to get people on board repatriation flights. As many as 99 United States citizens, including 98 adults and one infant, who were stuck in Hyderabad had left the city aboard a special Air India flight to Mumbai. They were among the 200 US nationals who were flown back to the United States from Mumbai late on Tuesday night.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/us-citizens-on-the-edge-over-repatriation-flight/articleshow/75080509.cms||Uttara Varma
April 10, 2020||Kolkata||Kolkata man fights lockdown storm with endless cuppas||When the lockdown was announced, the first thing that set alarm bells ringing for Khokan Das was whether this would separate him from his beloved tea. The 45-year-old — a self-confessed tea aficionado — downs several cuppas a day. Recently, he chanced upon a viral video that showed a poor labourer facing social media trial for stepping out of his house for a cup of tea. The plight of such people, coupled with his love for the beverage, prompted Khokan to come up with a unique initiative. From March 20, he started serving tea and biscuits to over 500 street dwellers every day. “For Bengalis, cha is a sentiment. I can’t imagine a single day without tea. After seeing that video, I instantly decided to help those who are not being able to afford even a cup of tea in the lockdown. While many have come forward to provide food to the needy, I’m serving them tea and biscuits. After all, you need more than dal, chawal and khichdi to survive,” said Khokan. Right in the morning, Khokan assembles 25 litres of milk, a kilo of tea and five to six kilos of sugar to make almost 100 litres of tea. He adds all these ingredients in a huge pot and spends over an hour to prepare tea at his Shyam Pukur Street residence since his guest house is currently shut. “Initially, people from the nearby slums would gather in front of my house to collect tea, but now I go to the slums and street dwellers myself to avoid any kind of risk. Though some of them are still coming, it’ll stop soon. I’m taking all possible precautions.,” he added. Despite two workers from the local tea shop joining him in his noble initiative, the task at hand is not easy. Khokan is bearing all the expenses out of his own pocket, which is over `2,500 per day.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/kolkata-man-fights-lockdown-storm-with-endless-cuppas/articleshow/75074429.cms||Bishwabijoy Mitra
April 10, 2020||Business||As more people work from home, cases of cyber attacks rise||NEW DELHI: A senior corporate executive was on a video conference call with his top management using the popular Zoom app while working from home due to the coronavirus lockdown. Minutes after the meeting started, the screen was hacked, and pornographic content started playing across the screens of those who were on the call, prompting them to abruptly terminate the call. Coronavirus outbreak: Live updatesSimilarly, as PM Narendra Modi sought donations under the PM-CARES fund, more than a dozen similar-sounding UPI IDs cropped up, luring people to donate there. The fake IDs included pmcares@pnb, pmcares@hdfcbank, pmcare@yesbank, pmcare@ybl, pmcare@upi, pmcare@sbi and pmcare@icici. The issue was sorted out, but not before the intervention of the home ministry, CERT-in — the country’s security watchdog, and private experts. This is not all. Messages and websites are coming up by the dozens, promising to inform people about those suffering from coronavirus “near your location”, or providing “Covid-19 heatmaps”. Also, many are promising to help one avail unemployment funds. Sent from seemingly authorised sources, most of these fakes end up hacking, and even taking control of, smartphones and laptops that download them, leading to cyberattacks. Home networks very vulnerable to cyberattacksAs people work from home during the lockdown, cases of cyberattacks, hacking and even ransomware have been on the rise, posing a serious challenge to the new economic realities where digital networks are increasingly fuelling GDP, businesses, government machinery, and even school & college classes. Against the relatively secured networks at offices and workplaces, home networks are highly vulnerable, especially when many teammates are logging in through their personal devices under “bring your own device (BYOD)” practices. More on Covid-19 Coronavirus pandemic: Complete Coverage 21-day lockdown: What will stay open and what won't How to quarantine yourself at home Trust the newspaper for your daily verified news “With most of the companies not having systems and protocols to work remotely, hackers and malware makers are having a field day,” says Gowree Gokhale, a partner at law firm Nishith Desai Associates, which has been advising firms on how to work securely, and what precautions they need to undertake to stay safe. Shree Parthasarathy, the leader of Cyber Risk Services at Deloitte South Asia, says that against an average of 25,000-30,000 cases of spam emails that were originating in Europe and North America in a fortnight, the spam sent between March 13 and March 26 was as high as 4 lakh. “BYOD is increasingly turning into Bring Your Own Disaster. If I look at the Indian market, some of the most targeted categories that we found were life sciences and healthcare companies, manufacturing sector, and financial services. These are being hunted to steal patents, processes, passwords, and other critical information.” It is estimated that nearly 60% of the global workforce is working from home and remote locations. GV Anand Bhushan, partner at leading law firm Shardul Amarchand Mangaldas, says that enterprises cannot afford to have a lackadaisical attitude at this point in time. “Apart from external attacks, there are also instances where employees may also be violating the privacy codes as they start using their own devices. For example, when using personal devices to access company networks, people may be engaging in sharing of passwords across project teams; or making backups in violation of client contracts.” Prashant Choudhary, partner for risk advisory services at Ernst & Young, says “multiple vulnerabilities” have been detected in companies where employees are using personal devices. “Companies may be advising employees to install anti- virus and anti-malware. But does the employee want to spend for that, or does s/he understand its importance, or can s/he manage the installation process?” Also, Choudhary says that many of the proprietary company applications that are being offered to employees to access from home were not originally designed for the internet. “Many of them never had security features. They were for internal intra-net corporate purpose.” The experts also said that there have been cases on Zoom app where hackers have not only gained entry into private meetings, but have also recorded personal conversations as well as the information being shared on the screens. “There had been issues around data breach with Zoom where malicious hackers had even taken the recordings of the meetings, and these were made available over the internet,” Ernst & Young’s Choudhary says, hinting that corporate espionage may also be carried out in such nefarious activities. Most of the experts were of the unanimous opinion that an individual or a corporate, whose computer or organisation was compromised, should “immediately inform their internal IT teams as well as the government’s cyber security department.” Supratim Chakraborty, a partner at Khaitan & Co, says that instead of sharing screens to discuss sensitive work, companies and employees should use official emails for critical matters. “We have become quite vulnerable, both enterprises and individuals. Hackers and fraudsters are hyper active and sensitisation is the only recourse.” Shivpriya Nanda, partner at law firm J Sagar Associates, says that while laws are there to take action against data thefts and cyber frauds, the penalties may not be commensurate to the scale of crimes. “The new data protection law is yet to become a reality.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/as-people-work-from-home-cyberhits-rise/articleshow/75074437.cms||Pankaj Doval
April 10, 2020||Business||Pulses, flour, biscuits, noodles supply hit||BENGALURU/ NEW DELHI: There is an acute shortage of staples like rice, atta and dal, and packaged foods like instant noodles, biscuits and snacks in many retail stores and kiranas across the country. This has been caused by a huge surge in demand for these items, combined with low production in factories and severe transport bottlenecks due to the Covid-19 pandemicinduced lockdown. “Atta is in short supply, followed by packaged groceries like instant noodles and biscuits. All FMCG firms are facing similar problems of supply and manufacturing,” said Mohit Kampani, deputy MD and chief executive (hyper markets) at More Retail. Dal is seeing a shortage as about 75% of the mills in producing states like Madhya Pradesh, Rajasthan and Maharashtra are closed. “The shortage is also because there is no means to transport the product,” Arvind Mediratta, CEO of wholesaler Metro Cash & Carry India, said. Nestle, maker of Maggi noodles, said it has no comments to offer. But the company had said last month that operations in some of its locations are scaled down or suspended. Other companies like Britannia, ITC, PepsiCo and Parle are also facing similar production problems. Factories of FMCG companies are running at 20-30% capacity because most labourers have moved back to their native towns and villages. In some states, the government is not allowing the manufacture of packaged foods and beverages, leading to scarcity of chips and other snacks. This is in spite of the fact that such foods are under essential categories according to the definition of food in the Food Safety and Standards Act, 2006. “The directives of the Centre are not percolating down to all states. For instance, PepsiCo’s plant in West Bengal is not operational. The other two plants are operating at 15% capacity because there is no labour. The existing inventory has a limited shelf life. Therefore, supplies of packaged food are hit,” said a senior industry executive. Labour shortage is something that has hit all hard. Britannia MD Varun Berry told TOI last week it was operating at 20-30% of its strength. Parle is currently at 25%. In many cases, labourers are threatened with ostracisation by village heads if they go out, leading the government to ask local administrations to appeal to villagers to allow workers to go to factories. “We have 14 plants across the country but only a few are operational, with 10% production happening,” said Subhashis Basu, COO of Indore-headquartered Prataap Snacks, one of India’s leading snacks makers. Trucks, he said, are stuck with raw materials as well as finished goods. “Supply chain is a big problem. Although things are getting better, this is not going to go away anytime soon,” he said. Biscuit makers like Parle said many of its distributors are not buying from it regularly, while a large chunk does not have the manpower to send it to the kiranas. In many cases, chain retailers are sending their own trucks directly to the factories to procure goods.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/pulses-flour-biscuits-noodles-supply-hit/articleshow/75074453.cms||Avik Das
April 10, 2020||India||Customs duty waiver for ventilators, PPE||NEW DELHI: The government on Thursday announced customs duty exemption on a host of imported equipment — from ventilators and testing kits to face and surgical masks to personal protection equipment — needed to tackle Covid-19. The exemption, which is available till September 30, has been extended to inputs used to manufacture the items, the finance ministry said in a late evening statement. On March 31, TOI was the first to report about the proposal moved by the commerce department, in consultation with the health ministry and the pharma department. The ministries had also proposed to do away with integrated GST, which is levied on imported goods, but that plan will need to be ratified by the GST Council.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/customs-duty-waiver-for-ventilators-ppe/articleshow/75074561.cms||---
April 10, 2020||India||Mom rides 1,400km on scooty to get son home||HYDERABAD: Braving the stringent lockdown norms, a school teacher rode 1,400km on her two-wheeler to bring her son back home. Razia Begum, a teacher in Bodhan, Nizamabad, undertook the arduous journey as her son was stuck in Andhra Pradesh’s Nellore town. The teacher, who took a permission letter from police, was stopped at several places but managed to convince authorities about the necessity of undertaking the journey. “It was not difficult,” she told reporters after reaching her hometown with her son. Razia’s son Nizamuddin, an intermediate student, was enrolled in a coaching academy in Hyderabad as he wants to become a doctor. Nizamuddin had gone to Bodhan last month along with a friend from Nellore. As the friend got to know that his father was unwell, both of them travelled to Nellore on March 12. However, because of the lockdown, Nizamuddin was unable to make the journey back home. All I wanted was to get my son back: RaziaAs there was no way out for Nizamuddin, Razia approached Bodhan ACP Jaipal Reddy for help. With the letter in hand, Razia, who has three children — two sons and a daughter — decided to travel on her two-wheeler and reached Nellore on April 7. She took her son and immediately started off on the return journey. She reached Bodhan on April 8. “I had to travel along forest area roads too. I was not scared of anything. All I wanted was to get my son back,” Razia said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/mom-rides-1400km-on-scooty-to-get-son-home/articleshow/75074579.cms||SUSHIL RAO
April 10, 2020||Varanasi||Shivpur CHC comes up with safer unit for sample collection||VARANASI: After Ghaziabad, the Covid-19 sample collection unit resembling a‘phone booth’ has come up at the community health centre, Shivpur in Varanasi on Thursday. The unit made up of glass panels and aluminium cabinet, is manned by a technician for sample collection without any direct contact with the person being tested. “The unit is insulated from inside where the technician sits to collect oral swab samples using two arm-length neoprene rubber gloves fixed into two cavities made in the glass panel”, chief development officer Mahusudan Nagaraj Hulgi told TOI. One coming for Covid-19 just needs to stand before the booth, and the technician sitting inside would collect the swab using the rubber gloves, said the CDO adding that the unit is based on South Korean model, which is being used in Jharkhand. Another healthcare worker sits outside the unit to collect and label the sample, he added. “As the unit provides the facility of sample collection without any direct contact, it is safe for the health personnel,” he said adding that this would require less masks, gloves and PPE kits, and also less health personnel for sample collection.. Since there is no requirement of additional protective gears, these units can be provided to the field staff and health personnel in the hospitals, who are at higher risk of getting infected, he said. “After a trial run for 2-3 days, the response to these units will be assessed, and similar facility may be installed at other hospitals too if the response is positive,” said the CDO.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/varanasi/shivpur-chc-comes-up-with-safer-unit-for-sample-collection/articleshow/75071178.cms||---
April 10, 2020||Rajkot||BHAJIYA PE CHARCHA IN TIMES OF LOCKDOWN||Rajkot: Drive through interior roads in Amreli district and suddenly aroma of bhajiyas wafts through the air. There are no eateries or roadside stalls anywhere, but the fragrance of piping hot pakodas emanates from nearby fields where youngsters are having ‘pakode pe charcha.’With police strictly ensuring lockdown and booking people roaming on the roads, many people, most of them who have returned to their native villages from Surat, are finding the fields safe havens for gossip over hot snacks. They carry all the ingredients like oil, besan (gram flour), vegetables and stove inside the remote fields and enjoy such parties.However, the aroma sometimes reaches the cops too. Amreli police have carried out raids on such bhajiya parties, the latest one being on Wednesday late night in Kachardi village near Damnagar in Lathi taluka. Five people were arrested and booked for violating the public notification. Interestingly, they were caught not by the smell of bhajiyas, but the photographs of the party posted by one of them on his Facebook. Amreli SP Nirlipt Rai has formed a special WhatsApp group requesting people to share information about those violating the lockdown. Someone posted this picture and Damnagar police traced them down to Kachardi village. Those arrested were Rohit Rokad, Bhaktinandan Vasani, Tushar Rathod, Palak Vasani and Rohit Vasani. Barring, Bhaktinandan, who is a local, all others have returned from Surat. Rathod and Palak were employed as diamond polishers in Surat, but returned to their native as the unit closed down. Earlier, the police had raided a similar party inside an interior farm in Jira village near Savarkundla last week and arrested seven persons. These persons were also natives of Amreli, but settled in Surat for job or business. According to the locals, these parties are an everyday affair in what is called as ‘kharapat’ area that includes talukas of Liliya, Lathi and half of Savarkundla. The only two crops sown here are gram and wheat. “Both the crops are harvested now. As a result, the youths there have no work left and the fields too are empty. They can’t move out of the houses due to lockdown and therefore gather in the fields,” said Chiraj Acharya, social worker, in Savarkundla.Along with bhajiyas, they also cook regular food, one of the regulars being curry of brinjal calyx with rotlas.On the other hand, other areas of the district, mangoes, groundnut, cumin, cotton and bajra (pearl millet) are yet to be harvested. “So the people there, including those who have come from Surat, are busy in the farms there and have no time to organize such get togethers,” said Kamal Nasit, a farmer from Abhrampara, which is close to Mitiyala sanctuary. Talking to TOI, SP Nirlipt Rai said, “We raided at least four such bhajiya parties, most of them in interior farms, after the lockdown. We have popularized a WhatsApp number for people to inform us about violation of lockdown by uploading pictures. We have registered more than 100 offences so far using people’s help.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/bhajiya-pe-charcha-in-times-of-lockdown/articleshow/75073222.cms||---
April 10, 2020||Business||Kotak to draw Re 1 pay, 15% cut for top mgmt||Mumbai: India’s richest banker Uday Kotak said that he will forego compensation for FY21 and will take a notional salary of only Re 1. The rest of the top management of Kotak Bank has also decided to voluntarily take a 15% cut in their salaries. The announcement comes amid the coronavirus crisis, which is expected to trigger a global recession and cause the Indian economy to shrink in the first quarter of FY20. “We are in the midst of a battle to protect both lives and livelihoods. The revival of the economy will depend on a healthy and robust financial sector. The bank is committed to working alongside the government, private enterprise, civil society, and individuals in the tough times that lie ahead,” the bank said in a statement. Uday, whose net worth is derived from his shareholding in his bank, has seen his wealth erode substantially following the drop in share prices. In fiscal 2018-19, he was the third highest-paid banker with a basic monthly salary of Rs 27 lakh. Earlier this month, Kotak Mahindra Bank contributed Rs 25 crore to the PM CARES fund and Rs 10 crore to the relief efforts in Maharashtra. Uday has also made a personal contribution of Rs 25 crore to the PM CARES fund. Parliamentarians and state-level politicians were among the first to announce a salary cut as a measure of austerity in the wake of the huge government expenditure to counter the Covid-19 crisis. Announcing the decision, BJP MP Prakash Javadekar had said that it was a token gesture as the government had budgeted several thousand crores for fighting Covid, while the savings from salary would be very small.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/kotak-to-draw-re-1-pay-15-cut-for-top-mgmt/articleshow/75073520.cms||---
April 10, 2020||Rajkot||Amid lockdown, youths break cars, pelt stones in societies||Rajkot: Despite strict lockdown, a group of 15-17 youths went on a rampage in Mundra town of Kutch district on Wednesday night and vandalized vehicles in five residential societies. Four unidentified persons in the case after they were seen in the CCTV footages. “The four travelled through Baroi Society, Ghanshyam Park Society, Ashutosh Dham Soceity, Hinlaj Nagar Society and Shishu Mandir Society on two bikes. They broke the wind screens of the cars parked in these societies,” said P K Patel, inspector with Mundra police station. “We are trying to ascertain the identities of other persons on the basis of the CCTV footages,” added Patel. Apart from vandalizing the cars, the accused also allegedly pelted stones at the houses of some societies.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/amid-lockdown-youths-break-cars-pelt-stones-in-societies/articleshow/75073164.cms||---
April 10, 2020||Surat||In lockdown, maths teacher unlocks puzzles for children||Surat: Seeing their wards idling away in the lockdown period treating it as an extended vacation, many parents are worried sick about their children’s education. So was Devarsh Barad, a Class IV student’s parents in Ghanitya village of Sutrapada taluka in Gir-Somnath district who were especially worried about their son's maths lessons. However, Ajit Barad, Devarsh’s father and a science teacher in the government school was helped by a friend who suggested joining maths teacher, Sursinh Parmar’s free online classes. Now, so engrossed is the father-son duo with the online classes, that there is no stopping them. “My son joined the online class through mobile App and is enjoying a lot. Even I joined him as Sursinh Parmar's style of teaching is really remarkable,” said Barad.Sursinh Parmar, 44, has been teaching mathematics in Vitthalpur village’s government primary school in Kodinar taluka of Gir-Somnath district. A recipient of Best Maths teacher from All India Ramanujan Maths Club in 2019, Parmar has invented new divisibility rule 8 in maths and was also awarded Innovative teacher award by the Indian Institute of Management-Ahmedabad (IIMA) in 2015.A popular teacher across the state, Parmar lives in Alidar village which borders Gir wildlife Sanctuary. "My life’s aim is to remove the fear associated with maths and make kids enjoy the subject. I thought of finding an alternative to the conventional method of teaching and therefore started teaching online," he said.Soon word spread about Parmar's online maths class and it now has more than 150 students of Class III and IV in a matter of few days only. "On Thursday, 158 kids from across the state joined the class. I teach them between 8:30am and 10am daily. Kids have to download the Zoo app. I have got licence version of the App so that up to 500 kids can join this online class at a time,” Parmar told TOI.  Parmar's initative also inspired a private school teacher to help in buying licence version of the App (Zoom Cloud Meeting App) so that more and more kids can get benefit of his maths class. Incidentally, Parmar’s simplified teaching has helped over 30 children from poor families successfully crack JNV entrance test to get free education till Class XII.Every Sunday, Parmar invites experts on different fields to interact with the kids. "Last Sunday, we invited Assistant Commissioner of Police (Surat) Haresh Mevada who talked about policing during the lockdown. Next Sunday, MD student Dr Monika Vaghela, who works in Lab in Jamnagar, will interact with kids about Covid-19 and how to be safe. Besides maths, this also help kids understand what's going around them in the world and about the virus,” Parmar added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/in-lockdown-maths-teacher-unlocks-puzzles-for-children/articleshow/75073024.cms||Vijaysinh Parmar
April 10, 2020||Business||Food delivery cos share staff’s temp readings||Madhav Chanchani | TNN Bengaluru: India’s largest food delivery platforms like Zomato, Swiggy and Rebel Foods, which runs brands Behrouz Biryani and Ovenstory, and tea chain Chaayos are sharing temperature readings of couriers, cooks and other personnel involved in making the meal. The move is part of efforts to make customers more comfortable. This comes as these companies have started taking a series of measures to scale up hygiene practices with the coronavirus outbreak, and they look to win consumer trust. Zomato and Swiggy, who are aggregators of restaurants, over the last few weeks have started highlighting restaurants that do temperature checks regularly more prominently on their applications. Rebel Foods rolled out the practice of sharing temperatures of everyone involved in making the meal last week and also plans to share a medical certificate of those involved from next week. Zomato plans to start sharing the exact temperature of delivery personnel from Friday, and also share the chef’s details from next week. Swiggy has also started sharing the temperature of chef and packers across its private brands like Bowl Company and Homely. Besides, it is encouraging third-party restaurants on its platform to also follow this practice. While the number of orders at food delivery companies had fallen by 70-80% last week, they have now started recovering pace even as India is in the third week of nationwide lockdown. Before the lockdowns, India’s online food delivery market was pegged at 2.5-3 million orders a day. “In these times, trust is above everything else and consumers will also prefer more branded restaurants. Our kitchens operate under cameras 24x7 and we take the temperature of those working every three hours,” said Jaydeep Barman, CEO of Rebel Foods. He added that the overall business across 11 brands at Rebel was down 40%. But at more well-known brands like Behrouz and Ovenstory, the fall was much lower at 10-15%. Rebel Foods is currently operating 270 out of its 320 kitchens across the country, working with 60% of its original workforce. Platforms like Swiggy and Zomato have also seen only a limited number of restaurants open up for delivery, which has been one of the reasons behind the fall in orders besides customers becoming more cautious. Chaayos, which also serves snacks besides tea, was one of the first to measure and show temperatures of those involved in preparing the meals from March 24 just after the Janta Curfew. According to CEO Nitin Saluja, the platform is currently doing 50% of its pre-lockdown business. Globally, in countries like the US, the UK, Italy, France, and Germany, in the first 2-3 weeks after an increase in coronavirus cases, there was a dip in online food delivery orders. But later, they picked up especially as larger restaurant chains start opening up for deliveries.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/food-delivery-cos-share-staffs-temp-readings/articleshow/75073579.cms||---
April 10, 2020||Patna||Patna: Non-Covid patients face lockdown hassles||PATNA: While government hospitals in Patna are busy tackling the Covid-19 pandemic, which saw a surge on Thursday, non-coronavirus emergency cases and those with chronic illnesses requiring regular hospital visits are facing hurdles in accessing proper care. Even though most government healthcare establishments in Patna, including the PMCH and the IGIMS are open for emergency patients, elderly patients and those with critical ailments such as kidney problems and cancer are finding it a daunting task even to reach the hospitals. Arvind Kumar Sharma, a 56-year-old Jaganpura resident in the city, fell from the stairs at his house a few days ago. He was taken to a prominent government hospitals in the city, but he said he could not get treatment as doctors were said to be busy with Covid-19 patients. “After finding it difficult to be admitted there, I visited Mahavir Arogya Sansthan. My injury was so severe that an MRI had to be done,” he said. Krishna Verma (name changed), who is a stage two cancer patient, said lack of transportation and unavailability of doctors, has added to his woes. “Prior to the Covid-19 pandemic, I was getting treatment in Mumbai, but after the lockdown I am not able to go there for chemotherapy. Whenever I am in Patna, I seek help from local doctors but due to the lockdown, I am not able to reach them,” he said. The IGIMS medical superintendent, Manish Mandal, said, “Operation theatre and emergency wards are available for emergency cases. Since, patients with underlying diseases are more prone to contacting Covid-19 virus, we make sure they don’t come in contact with positive patients. Hence, we are only giving treatment to very serious patients.” The Nalanda Medical College and Hospital (NMCH), which has been declared as a Covid-19 hospital, has completely stopped treatment of all other diseases. NMCH superintendent Nirmal Kumar Sinha said the hospital is closed for other patients as there’s a chance of them getting infected. “Our services are open for old patients, who can call us in case they need any medical help or advice,” he added. However, several hospitals have started giving medical aid to non-Covid patients with the help of digital technology as most of them have OPD services. Dr Mandal of IGIMS said, “We have completely shut the OPD due to growing cases of Covid-19. But, at the same time, we know that other non-covid patients need our help too, hence we have started the telehealth facility for all non-emergency patients. We have allotted an hour’s time of doctors of every department. During this period, patients can show their prescription and get medical help.” Private healthcare centres, on the other hand, are providing all services except OPD. “We are referring patients with symptoms similar to that of Covid-19 to hospitals like IGIMS and NMCH. Besides, we are not giving OPD services in order to maintain social distancing. We are operating every day and doing surgeries, kidney transplants, deliveries and all other emergency cases,” Dr Satyajit Kumar Singh, MD of a private hospital in Pataliputra, said. Sharing similar views, Talat Halim, regional director (east) of a private hospital said, “We have not closed any services. As all government hospitals are lockeddown with Covid-19 patients and small clinics are open for a few hours, patients with trauma, heart attacks and kidney failure have nowhere to go.” He added, “We are making every patient except those who are in very critical condition, fill a self-declaration form, where they write about their travel history and whether they have coronavirus-like symptoms or not as precautionary measure. ” Asked about emergency services for patients who do not have their own vehicle, Halim said: “We have tied up with private ambulances for bringing patients from other districts without any additional charges.” He informed that the number of patients have increased after the lockdown. “We are receiving at least 70-80 patients per day. Besides, we are getting 15-20 consultations on our online application,” Halim said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/non-covid-patients-face-lockdown-hassles/articleshow/75071655.cms||Archi Rani
April 10, 2020||Kozhikode||Covid-19: Wayanad’s containment strategy akin to Bhilwara’s||KOZHIKODE: Wayanad district has adopted a particularly aggressive containment strategy similar to ‘Bhilwara model’ of ruthless containment to curb the spread of Covid- 19, keeping in mind the district’s acute vulnerabilities, including lack of adequate health care facilities and having the largest tribal population in the state. Despite being the least populous district in the state and having had just three Covid-19 positive cases, two of whom were discharged after recovery on Wednesday, the district has one of the severest containment measures in place in the state, especially with regard to securing its borders during lockdown, enforcing quarantine and monitoring remote tribal colonies using hamlet Asha workers. The district has the highest percentage of population under observation in houses (11,111 persons) and has made home quarantine mandatory for all who enter the district from seven hotspot districts in the state for 28 days. Also, the district has been the first to start seizing passports of expats who violated quarantine and has seized 15 passports so far. Also, interstate travelers who reached the district after lockdown and tribespeople who came back from their work places in Karnataka are being made to stay in Covid Care centres. “We had to be aggressive, and even ruthless in some cases, in implementing the containment strategy considering the vulnerabilities of a district, including having a weak health system and having to share porous borders with two neighboring states. Also, we can’t take any chances with regard to the large tribal population. So, we decided to be extra aggressive in securing our borders and in enforcing lockdown,” district collector Dr Adeela Abdulla said. She said the measures taken has been successful so far in preventing surge in Covid-19 cases, despite having many adjoining district, including Kodagu and Mysuru districts in Karnataka and the bordering Nilgiris district in Tamil Nadu reporting Covid- 19 cases. Also, the three border districts in Kerala, Kannur, Kozhikode and Malappuram, are Covid- 19 hotspots. But the district has been able to ensure that there have been no new positive cases during the last 10 days. “We were forced to bring in strict restrictions on inter- district travel also to prevent people from other districts in the state to travel to Wayanad as many people from nearby districts had houses in Wayanad and it was done to curb non- essential travel,” she added. District police chief R Ilango said the district had begun implementing social distancing measures and securing its borders and constituted inter-departmental crowd dissipation teams, much ahead of other districts, from March 15 onwards. “There were nine land inter-state border crossing points and one across the Kabani river at Perikkallur; we have secured them by deploying round-the-clock patrolling teams. Also when neighbouring districts reported positive cases before the lockdown, we had the unique situation of people from those districts coming to stay in home stays in the district to stay safe. So we started random checking and strict enforcement of quarantine,” he said. The textile town of Bhilwara in Rajasthan had hit national headlines for implementing a ‘ruthless containment’ strategy involving isolating the district, effective screening, strict enforcement of curfew and lockdown and having monitoring mechanism for rural areas.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kozhikode/wayanads-containment-strategy-akin-to-bhilwaras/articleshow/75075210.cms||---
April 10, 2020||Kochi||Covid-19: Wayanad’s containment strategy akin to Bhilwara’s||KOZHIKODE: Wayanad district has adopted a particularly aggressive containment strategy similar to ‘Bhilwara model’ of ruthless containment to curb the spread of Covid- 19, keeping in mind the district’s acute vulnerabilities, including lack of adequate health care facilities and having the largest tribal population in the state. Despite being the least populous district in the state and having had just three Covid-19 positive cases, two of whom were discharged after recovery on Wednesday, the district has one of the severest containment measures in place in the state, especially with regard to securing its borders during lockdown, enforcing quarantine and monitoring remote tribal colonies using hamlet Asha workers. The district has the highest percentage of population under observation in houses (11,111 persons) and has made home quarantine mandatory for all who enter the district from seven hotspot districts in the state for 28 days. Also, the district has been the first to start seizing passports of expats who violated quarantine and has seized 15 passports so far. Also, interstate travelers who reached the district after lockdown and tribespeople who came back from their work places in Karnataka are being made to stay in Covid Care centres. “We had to be aggressive, and even ruthless in some cases, in implementing the containment strategy considering the vulnerabilities of a district, including having a weak health system and having to share porous borders with two neighboring states. Also, we can’t take any chances with regard to the large tribal population. So, we decided to be extra aggressive in securing our borders and in enforcing lockdown,” district collector Dr Adeela Abdulla said. She said the measures taken has been successful so far in preventing surge in Covid-19 cases, despite having many adjoining district, including Kodagu and Mysuru districts in Karnataka and the bordering Nilgiris district in Tamil Nadu reporting Covid- 19 cases. Also, the three border districts in Kerala, Kannur, Kozhikode and Malappuram, are Covid- 19 hotspots. But the district has been able to ensure that there have been no new positive cases during the last 10 days. “We were forced to bring in strict restrictions on inter- district travel also to prevent people from other districts in the state to travel to Wayanad as many people from nearby districts had houses in Wayanad and it was done to curb non- essential travel,” she added. District police chief R Ilango said the district had begun implementing social distancing measures and securing its borders and constituted inter-departmental crowd dissipation teams, much ahead of other districts, from March 15 onwards. “There were nine land inter-state border crossing points and one across the Kabani river at Perikkallur; we have secured them by deploying round-the-clock patrolling teams. Also when neighbouring districts reported positive cases before the lockdown, we had the unique situation of people from those districts coming to stay in home stays in the district to stay safe. So we started random checking and strict enforcement of quarantine,” he said. The textile town of Bhilwara in Rajasthan had hit national headlines for implementing a ‘ruthless containment’ strategy involving isolating the district, effective screening, strict enforcement of curfew and lockdown and having monitoring mechanism for rural areas.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/wayanads-containment-strategy-akin-to-bhilwaras/articleshow/75072423.cms||---
April 10, 2020||Ahmedabad||Working remotely causing Gujarat high court pain||AHMEDABAD: It’s not even two weeks since the Gujarat high court has done away with hard copies of petitions and documents and opted for e-filing and hearing through video-conferencing during the nationwide lockdown. But its registry has already got fed up with the flod of mails from advocates clogging its inbox. The inflow of bulky mails is so huge that the HC registry complained to the concerned bench about the repetitive and bulky mails from the lawyers. This led Justice Bela Trivedi to issue a warning to lawyers not to give a tough time to court staff or else the HC will take a “stringent view” of the behaviour. The HC cited the guideline for e-filing and ordered all advocates to strictly adhere to it or be ready to face action. The issue arose on Wednesday during the hearing of an admiralty suit involving a ship. One of the party respondents filed a 200-page reply, which the HC thought was unwarranted. While rebuking the lawyers for sending such lengthy and bulky documents on mail, the HC said, “The Registrar (Judicial) had also brought to the notice of the Court that since the time e-filing is permitted, everyday his office is receiving the documents in huge quantity through e-mail and sometimes the same documents are repeated and sent by the advocates for three to four times, which causes not only inconvenience to the staff but also causes difficulty in downloading the documents in a such huge quantity.” The court also said that lawyers file pleadings and documents in soft-copy without pagination and without verifying whether documents are legible or not. The court reminded lawyers about its March 22 circular laying down methodology for e-filing and video-conferencing. It further said, “Since, the Court has noticed that the instructions/directions as contained in the aforestated circular are not being adhered to by the parties/advocates, it is directed that the said circular shall be scrupulously followed by all concerned, failing which stringent view shall be taken in the matter.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/working-remotely-causing-hc-pain/articleshow/75072726.cms||---
April 10, 2020||Patna||Lockdown sees surge in calls to women’s helpline in Patna||PATNA: Since the 21-day nationwide lockdown began on March 24, the women’s helpline number in Patna has been ringing off the hook with a large number of calls reporting domestic abuse, harassment over phone and couples seeking virtual counselling for marital discords. According to protection officer Pramila Kumari, there has been a 75% surge in virtual counselling appointments due to the Covid-19 pandemic. “We have started counselling people via calls to follow social distancing norms. Even though, we only look after issues related to Patna, these days we are getting calls from other districts too,” Pramila said. As a positive fallout of the lockdown, married couples, have become more understanding of each other now regarding resolving their disputes, she added. “Counselling plays a very important role when it comes to cases related to marital problems. We counsel the victims, along with their husbands, which has somehow become more effective these days. Now, be it the fear of us taking strict action or the positive aspects of counselling, couples have become more understanding about resolving their personal issues,” she said. According to psychologists in the city, the lockdown is having a negative impact on couples with existing problems as their frustration levels are going up due to being cooped up at home without the scope of going out and meeting people. “Even though I have stopped face-to-face counselling at my clinic, several married couples are seeking help via calls. The lockdown has added fuel to their existing problems as not going out or meeting people is quite stressful for a lot of people,” said Dr Binda Singh, a clinical psychologist. The women’s helpline, helmed by Pramila, is helping women deal with another issue — verbal abuse and harassment over phone by unknown callers, much like what they face in public places. “The number of complaints regarding verbal abuse and eve teasing via phone calls and messages has surpassed domestic violence cases in the past two weeks. While victims of domestic abuse are not more than 24, the other cases, which typically include calls and messages from unknown numbers, are at least 45-50,” Pramila said. She added: “For instance, Nidhi (name changed) sent us a message saying she was being harassed by an unknown caller few days back. She said she was being harassed by someone over phone, who called her from three different numbers. He even sent a voice note saying bad things in foul language.” Pramila said within two hours the miscreant was nabbed.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/lockdown-sees-surge-in-calls-to-womens-helpline/articleshow/75071731.cms||Archi Rani
April 10, 2020||Patna||Bihar: Criminal killed in police encounter||PATNA: Two criminals, including a terror of Kosi region, were killed in separate incidents in the state during the last 24 hours. A bank robber, Bhulawan Rai, was killed in an encounter with the police near Maniari in Muzaffarpur district on Wednesday night. The incident took place when Rai attacked a police team near Anbara bridge on Muzaffarpur-Mahua road under Maniari police station. Confirming the incident, Muzaffarpur SSP Jayant Kant said Rai, a resident of Kerma village in Muzaffarpur district, was facing charges of bank robbery, loot, murder and extortion. At least 12 criminal cases were pending against him in Muzaffarpur and its neighbouring districts, he said. Rai, a member of Amresh Thakur gang, was suspected to be involved in a daylight robbery in a private bank in Muzaffarpur. The police had seized huge cash from the house of Rai’s relative earlier. The seized amount was part of the cash looted from the bank under Gaighat police station in Muzaffarpur. Earlier, a notorious gangster, Ramanand Yadav alias Ramanand Pahalwan, was killed in diara area under Chiraiya police outpost in Saharsa district late on Wednesday night. The incident took place when Ramanand, considered to be a terror of Kosi region, was going to his field from home on his horse. The police didn’t rule out the involvement of the Maoists in the killing of Ramanand, who had unleashed a reign of terror in diara areas under Saharsa, Darbhanga, Samastipur and Khagaria districts. DIG, Kosi range, Suresh Prasad Choudhary said at least 30 cases of murder, crop loot and extortion were pending against Ramanand.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/criminal-killed-in-police-encounter/articleshow/75071961.cms||---
April 10, 2020||Patna||Lockdown woes for ‘nautch girls’ of Bihar||PATNA: Lockdown has come as a double blow for thousands of “nautch girls” of Bihar — first, since people are not allowed to go out their daily earnings have dried up and, second, the lockdown has forced cancellation of a large number of weddings where they earn by performing during the ‘baraat’. The en mass cancellation of ‘Satta’, the agreement marriage parties have with nautch girls for their dance performance, has put a question mark on this wedding season income and has brought them on the verge of starvation. “Most nautch girls, who are not engaged in flesh trade, have only two types of income -- daily income through performance at mujra, and seasonal income through performance either in weddings or other auspicious occasions,” Julie Khatoon, a community leader of nautch girls at Shravan Bazaar in Munger, told TOI over phone. She added, “The income from wedding parties are used to meet major expenses in the family while mujra income meets minor household expenses. This lockdown has not only destroyed our daily income but also blocked all prospect of seasonal income as people are cancelling the ‘Satta’ (agreements).” Around 50 families of nautch girls reside in Sharavan Bazaar, located in the heart of historic Munger town. With no customers since the lockdown began and no other source of income, most of these families are on the verge of starvation. “One family in Shravan Bazaar has 12-members—six older girls, five minor girls and only one physically challenged male member. In usual days, the six nautch girls earn enough to survive. But after lockdown, this family has no income. Situation is more or less similar for all families that do not have any earning male member,” Julie said. A large number of these performers also live in towns such as Gaya, Sasaram, Natwar (Rohtas), Purnia, Ara, Arwal, Behea (Bhojpur), Aurangabad and Nawada. However, Chaturbhuj Sthan in Muzaffarpur is their biggest hub in Bihar. Around 450 families of nautch girls live here. “Of the total 450 families, nearly 250 are solely dependent on the nautch girls. As no customers are coming at the ‘kotha’ due to lockdown, they have no money even for grocery items. They are somehow surviving as neighbourhood grocery shops have agreed to give items on credit. We are virtually living on the mercy of grocery shop owners,” Rani Begam, a community leader and former ward councillor of Muzaffarpur Nagar Nigam, told TOI. The nautch girls, Rani said, are facing the worst-ever financial crisis of their life. “Very old ladies say they had not seen such a crisis even the wars. Despite total blackout during the days of war, some customers used to visit them. In those days, some zamindars used to help them financially,” Rani added. She rued that neither any government agency nor any social organisation has so far come to the aid of the starving families at Muzaffarpur or any other town. “As most of these families do not have ration card, they are not going to benefit from the state government’s recent announcement to provide one month’s free ration and Rs 1,000 per family to ration card holders,” Rani said. “Majority of such families living at Muzaffarpur, Purnia, Munger or Gaya do not have ration card, so they can’t get any government assistance,” said Md Mahfooz Alam, a social activist who has been working for their uplift. He added, “I hope the respective district administrations will ensure the issuance of ration cards to all such families.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/lockdown-woes-for-nautch-girls-of-bihar/articleshow/75071948.cms||Madan Kumar
April 10, 2020||Patna||Patna: Collegians seek psychiatrists’ help amid Covid-19 scare||PATNA: With the rapid rise in the number of Covid-19 cases and corresponding deaths, a steep rise has been witnessed in mental illnesses in the city in the last one fortnight, claim psychiatrists and mental health professionals. Although most patients are not in a position to visit clinics or mental well-being centres due to the lockdown, they contact the doctors online and seek their advice to cope with anxiety and mental stress. “The lockdown has created a massive impact on the lifestyle of people as they are staying indoors with limited resources. Hence, they are suffering from anxiety, mental stress and panic attacks,” psychotherapist Dr Mukesh Kishore, who runs a counselling centre in North S K Puri area, told this newspaper. “Senior citizens and lonely women are the worst victims of depression and mental disorders. A number of middle-aged people and some college students have also sought medical advice from me,” added Kishore. Another psychiatrist Dr R N Chaturvedi claimed that people were calling him up and asking questions about the pandemic and the lockdown. “People are stressed about their financial situation and the boredom resulting from the time spent at home,” he said. Patna University (PU) psychology department former head Prabha Shukla pointed out, “People still don’t know when the lockdown will end and there is a lot of uncertainty. Visiting parks and meeting friends, which were previously coping strategies for anxiety patients, are now restricted. Besides, people with pre-existing mental health conditions are feeling threatened with the overload of information about coronavirus.” A number of students are contacting PU’s Institute of Psychological Research and Service. Its director Priyadarshini Narain said, “We are planning to issue helpline numbers for safeguarding the mental health, psychological concerns and well-being of our students. We will also monitor them regularly and help them remain calm and stress-free.” “The University Grants Commission has asked universities to create help groups headed by hostel wardens and senior faculty members for students,” Narain added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/collegians-seek-psychiatrists-help/articleshow/75071927.cms||B K Mishra
April 10, 2020||Kolkata||Man goes to Kolkata cops after online fish no-show||KOLKATA: A 73-year-old retired structural engineer has approached Kolkata Police to ensure fish returns to his daily menu. Tapas Das, a resident of Behala Manton who retired from Jessop, had decided to order fish from the state-sponsored SFDC app on March 29, the day the government announced the scheme. However, even after spending close to Rs 1000, the 1968-batch alumni of IIT-Kharagpur said he is yet to receive the package. “I am a senior citizen and my doctors said I might be prone to Covid-19. Hence, I have been avoiding going to the market. My wife is diabetic and cannot go to the market either. I never knew, though, that it would mean going without fish for days,” he said on Thursday. “I waited till March 31, but the fish I ordered never came. It was then that I began calling up a helpline number provided on the app. I must have dialed it around 70-80 times, but received no response in these next nine days. I finally decided to lodge a complaint with Kolkata Police on Facebook, alleging cheating,” he said. “I booked for home delivery and the full value of the order was paid online. The delivery was slotted for the morning of March 30. For reasons unknown, the order has not been delivered till today. In addition, SFDC is totally incommunicado. Nobody is answering the number provided neither is anyone replying to my various emails. Please do the needful so that either the order is delivered or my money is refunded immediately,” Das wrote in his complaint. Das told TOI that his monthly groceries were covered after an online portal finally delivered them a few days ago. “A vendor who sells vegetables here twice a week is helping us survive,” Das said. Speaking about his daughter who lives in Kasba, Das said, “We know she is there for us. But we cannot ask her to travel all this way to arrange for our daily food.” Cops said they will look into the complaint. “It seems like the person was duped into downloading a similar-looking app. We will also see if there was a genuine mistake from the seller’s end. The Parnasree police will help them out if they approach us directly,” explained an officer. Government officials said that to avail of the SFDC service, one would have to download the app from Google Play Store. After signing in by providing the address and mobile number, home delivery of fish will be a click away. A fisheries department official said he was not aware of the charges. “We have not received any complaints yet. We will look into the grievance if it is genuine,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/man-goes-to-cops-after-online-fish-no-show/articleshow/75073994.cms||Dwaipayan Ghosh
April 10, 2020||Vadodara||Fails to clear SSC 4 times, but youth finds success in making unique drone||Vadodara: He failed class X examinations four times, but his invention could be a big breakthrough during the lockdown. Twenty-year-old Prince Panchal has made a remote-controlled drone that can deliver payload up to 600 grams. Panchal, who lives in Makarpura, says that he was never much interested in formal education and believed that creating new things is his forte. “When I failed for the first time in class X, I was thinking what to do while sitting at home, so with the help from my grandfather and my own design, I made a miniature of an aeroplane which could be fly with a remote control,” said Panchal. Since then he has made 40 such miniature aeroplanes. This year after the fifth attempt of class X examination, Panchal successfully made a remote-controlled drone. And, it may come in handy at the right time if authorities make use of it. “I had never thought of lockdown when I made the drone, in fact, I had never imagined that there will be a lockdown. It is just a co-incidence that drones are being used right now by police for surveillance. But the model which I have made can be used to deliver a food packet or medicines,” Panchal added. Panchal’s drone has a GPS device and can fly within a range of one kilometre. “The current model is a smaller version, if the government supports me, I can make a bigger version too which can carry heavy payloads,” said Panchal. “The model can be very useful, as there will be no human touch. The drone will drop the payload and fly back to its source location,” he added. Panchal’s drone can also be used for making announcements if a loudspeaker with pre-recorded message is installed on it.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/fails-to-clear-ssc-4-times-but-youth-finds-success-in-making-unique-drone/articleshow/75071185.cms||---
April 10, 2020||Patna||‘Safety of sanitation workers top priority’||PATNA: The Patna Municipal Corporation (PMC), with the technical support of United Nations Population Fund (UNFPA), claimed that all necessary measures were being taken for ensuring the safety of its sanitation workers going out on the streets amid the Covid-19 pandemic. PMC has provided masks and gloves to the sanitation workers while UNFPA is conducting training and awareness programmes for them on how to collect biomedical waste, including masks, gloves and sanitiser bottles from houses. The sanitation workers are getting 5-micron plastic bags for collecting domestic hazardous waste. PMC commissioner Himanshu Sharma said, “Around 5,000 sanitation workers are engaged in keeping the city clean. We have provided them protective gear, including masks, gloves and shoes. We are taking technical help from UNFPA to train our staff about the disposal of such hazardous waste.” Mohd Nadeem Noor, head of UNFPA (Bihar chapter) said on Saturday that the PMC sanitation workers are given black plastic bags to collect biomedical waste. “They will dispose such waste at the common biomedical waste treatment facility (CBWTF),” he said. “The hospitals are disposing biomedical waste, but we need to make the workers aware about their hazardous effect. We have even asked the sanitation workers to keep the black bags with them while sweeping roads and if they find used masks, gloves and tissues, they need to put it in separate bags for disposal,” Nadeem said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/safety-of-sanitation-workers-top-priority/articleshow/75071635.cms||---
April 10, 2020||Ahmedabad||6 arrested for not maintaining social distancing at Jetalpur APMC||Ahmedabad: Narol police on Wednesday picked up six persons the from newly set up APMC market in Jetalpur, for allegedly sitting close to each other and not maintaining social distancing. They have been booked under Section 188 of the IPC and 135 of the Gujarat Police Act. Those arrested are Afroz Shaikh, Asfaq Shaikh and Altaf Khan from Danilimda, Praveen Vaghela, Mela Parmar from Kheda and Vijender Shakya, a resident of Narol. Police said they are brokers at the market.On Wednesday, a team of Narol police suddenly raided the market and found that the accused shouting loudly and sitting close to each other.Narol police officials said as they were not maintaining social distancing and also violating the notification barring the gathering of more than four people at one place, they were arrested.“We have warned others at the APMC to not to sit close to each other and violate social distancing rules,” added a Narol police official.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/6-arrested-for-not-maintaining-social-distancing-at-jetalpur-apmc/articleshow/75072908.cms||---
April 10, 2020||Surat||Man held for killing minor daughter||Surat: A 28-year-old labourer was arrested by police in Valsad on Wednesday for allegedly killing his one-and-a-half-year-old daughter after quarrel with wife over his extramarital affairs. Sanjay Dharaniya, a resident of Valsadi Zampa which falls under the jurisdiction of Pardi police station, was arrested for allegedly killing Mahi.The accused allegedly strangled the minor girl to death when Binal had left. The minor was shifted to a hospital by other family members and Binal was informed. Police in their investigation found Dharaniya’s involvement in his daughter’s murder for which they held him, sources said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/man-held-for-killing-minor-daughter/articleshow/75073119.cms||---
April 10, 2020||Ahmedabad||CTI Mehsana busy making, handing out food packets||Ahmedabad: The chief railway ticket inspector (CTI) of Mehsana, Balwantsinh Rathod, is not busy checking tickets these days, but he along with his colleagues and their family members are busy preparing food packets for the poor and needy people in their town. Rathod says, “After the lockdown began, my children and their friends requested us for funds to make food packets for the poor and needy. We immediately sought permission to make food packets. The utensils were arranged from a mandap decorator and the activity began.” Since April 25, these railway employees and their families have been feeding 1,500 mouths daily twice a day. Rathod said that there is no work at the station and the employees are utilizing their free time in making food packets. He said the activity which began from the funds of the railway employee’s union is now getting local support and daily they collect about Rs 18,000 and the same is used for making food packets. Rathod said that the group always checks the food before giving it out. Rathod claims that he has been into social service since long and when the idea was floated he immediately accepted it. Western Railway’s Ahmedabad division officials said the group in Mehsana has on their own distributed more than 27,000 food packets and it has not received any financial assistance from the government.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/cti-mehsana-busy-making-handing-out-food-packets/articleshow/75072834.cms||---
April 10, 2020||Rajkot||Domestic fish supply, exports severely hit by lockdown||Rajkot: The lockdown across the country to curb the spread of coronavirus has severely impacted various sectors and fishing industry in Gujarat, one of the major export oriented market, is not an exception.While the exports are staring at 30% loss in the annual business of over Rs 5,000 crore because of the corona pandemic in European countries, repercussion of fight against COVID-19 will also be felt in the domestic markets. Industry experts expect huge shortage of fish supply in local markets as the fishing season this year has been marred due to back to back cyclonic storm in the Arabian Sea in December-January. And when the best season for fishing began in March it got hit by the lockdown. March to June accounts for over 70% of the fish catch for a season. This has rendered at least 36,000 fishermen of the Gujarat coast jobless. These fishermen come to work with boat owners in Gujarat from South Gujarat region and Southern India states every year. But now most of them are stuck. “These fishermen want to return to their native as soon as possible. They don’t want to wait till the end of fishing season in June first week,” said Jagdish Fofandi president of All India Sea Food Exporters’ Association. The fish production is also likely to be down by 30% this year as most of the fishermen will leave for home as soon as lockdown is over, he added. Fofandi said that Veraval, one of the largest exporters of sea food in India which is bustling at this time of the year, looks like a desert town because all the fishing activities and processing units are shut since March 22. “We have requested the state government to allow us process and package fish worth Rs 1,000 crore laying in the cold storage of various factories and help us fulfil our pending orders. Nearly 50% of the stock is booked for export, but for the rest we need to find new buyers,” Fofandi told TOI. The fish exporters’ body made represented to the Gir Somnath district collector on Thursday. There are nearly 100 processing units in Veraval. Kenny Thomas, a fish exporter from Veraval said that not only fishermen, but those connected with the export industry like the ice factories, transporters and others have also been affected by the lockdown. Thomas added that besides no business, exporters are also facing financial crunch as foreign buyers who have got the shipment in last three months are seeking more time for payment. According to exporters payment of about Rs 1,200 crore is outstanding even after the expiry of the credit period. Nearly 40% of the fish from Veraval is exported to European countries like Spain, Italy and France besides big Asian buyer like China. The fish exporters have also raised concern that after summer they will not have money to pay the fishermen stuck due to lockdown.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/domestic-fish-supply-exports-severely-hit-by-lockdown/articleshow/75073040.cms||Nimesh Khakhariya
April 10, 2020||Business||Global eco expected to slump into recession: RBI||Mumbai: The Reserve Bank of India’s monetary policy report released on Thursday shows that while inflation is expected to be lower than expected, the coronavirus pandemic has “drastically altered” the growth outlook, which it has not attempted to forecast. The central bank is, however, factoring in rupee at an exchange rate of 75 to the dollar and average crude prices at $35 for FY21. “The global economy is expected to slump into recession in 2020, as post-Covid-19 projections indicate. The sharp reduction in international crude oil prices, if sustained, could improve the country’s terms of trade, but the gain from this channel is not expected to offset the drag from the shutdown and loss of external demand,” the RBI said in its report. “India has not been spared from the exponential spread of Covid-19 and by April 7, more than 4,700 cases had been reported. Covid-19 would impact economic activity in India directly through the domestic lockdown. Second-round effects would operate through a severe slowdown in global trade and growth. More immediately, spillovers are being transmitted through finance and confidence channels to domestic financial markets,” the report said. According to the RBI, in these conditions, forecasts are ‘hazardous’ as they are subject to large revisions with every incoming data on the pandemic. Projected inflation for the first quarter of the financial year that started April 1 was lowered to 4.8% and is seen easing to 4.4% in the quarter ended September from a range of 5-5.4% for the six months forecast previously, according to the central bank’s monetary policy report. Price gains are expected to decelerate further to 2.7% in the quarter ended December — near the lower end of the RBI’s 2-6% target band. The forecasters, in the survey conducted before RBI monetary policy announcement on March 27, expected real GDP growth to recover from 4.6% in Q4FY20 to 6.1% in Q4FY21. However, after the lockdown and exponential rise in cases globally, many have lowered the forecasts substantially. Highlighting the variables in the economy, the RBI said that apart from the continuing resilience of agriculture and allied activities, other sectors of the economy will be adversely impacted by the pandemic, depending upon its intensity, spread and duration. “Relatively modest upsides are expected to emanate from monetary, fiscal and other policy measures and the early containment of Covid-19 if that occurs. Such uncertainties make the forecasting of inflation and growth highly challenging,” the RBI said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/global-eco-expected-to-slump-into-recession-rbi/articleshow/75073492.cms||---
April 10, 2020||Kolkata||Bengal approval for plasma treatment||Kolkata: The Bengal government on Thursday gave its nod to start clinical trials for “passive immunisation” of Covid-19 patients in Beliaghata ID Hospital using antibodies in the blood plasma of cured patients. The Council for Scientific and Industrial Research (CSIR) had approached several states for approval of passive immunisation therapy using “convalescent plasma” and Bengal is the first state to approve. Kerala has also got a similar plasma therapy approval from the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR), but it was the state’s own initiative, sources indicated. Bengal’s approval to CSIR also asks it to submit the necessary clearances from the Ethics Committee and Clinical Trials Registry-India, sources added. According to sources, scientists from CSIR’s Indian Institute of Chemical Biology in Kolkata, and ID Hospital doctors will work on the framework of the clinical trials. The proposal, which is already under trial in a few other countries, involves drawing blood plasma from people who have been cured of Covid-19 after a four-week gap and injecting it into critical Covid-19 patients. According to senior doctors, convalescent plasma is advantageous because of its immediate availability since drugs and vaccines take a long time to develop. Immunologist Dipyaman Ganguly, a principal scientist from CSIR-IICB, is coordinating this programme on behalf of CSIR. “This clinical trial must be carried out together by a team of scientists and medical professionals. While we will be designing the trial models on the number of patients and the methodology to be adopted, the treatment will be conducted by medical practitioners. We are hopeful that other mandatory approvals will be granted soon,” he said. The CSIR, which had approached the Bengal government on Tuesday, said the programme “aims at collecting plasma from recovered Covid-19 patients and biobanking them for use in critically ill patients.” A team of scientists from Indian Institute of Chemical Biology, Kolkata and Central Drug Research Institute, Lucknow are working together to achieve this. The programme will start with an open-label randomized control trial followed by biobanking and therapeutic use, if found effective. A health department official said, “We are hopeful about the proposal.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/bengal-approval-for-plasma-treatment/articleshow/75074000.cms||Sumati Yengkhom
April 10, 2020||Patna||Nitish Kumar for more centres to test Covid-19 samples||PATNA: With the number of coronavirus cases rising to 51 in the state on Thursday, CM Nitish Kumar asked the officials concerned to devise ways for opening more testing centres. So far, there are altogether four Covid-19 testing centres in the state at Rajendra Memorial Research Institute of Medical Sciences, Indira Gandhi Institute of Medical Sciences, Darbhanga Medical College and Hospital and Patna Medical College and Hospital. As the first positive case of Covid-19 was reported in Bihar on March 22, unlike other states where cases started getting detected from January-end, state health department principal secretary Sanjay Kumar tweeted on Thursday, “Many of you have questions about testing facilities in the state. We have compiled testing data of major states by using different sources. The states where positive cases were reported earlier have more testing centres. Laboratory infrastructure also varies and capacity has been an issue across the country.” The CM, who held a review meeting involving chief secretary Deepak Kumar and other senior officials, also said the doctors should be provided with PPE kits, face masks and all necessary equipment required for pacing up the testing exercises, besides ensuring that there is no shortage of items required for their protection. He added that all protocols – screening, quarantine, isolation and testing – should be maintained in districts declared as hotspots. The CM appealed to people who have returned from other states or abroad not to hide their travel history and voluntarily come up for screening. He asked the officials to trace and track down people with whom they had come in contact on return and follow the necessary protocol. The CM told home department additional chief secretary Amir Subhani and health department principal secretary Sanjay Kumar to put into service all required resources to stop the spread of coronavirus. He asked the chief secretary to identify more hotels and buildings which could be provided with all facilities in advance for their conversion into isolation centres. The CM asked the officials to strictly enforce the lockdown in the state, besides sealing the places and districts which have been declared as hotspots.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/nitish-for-more-centres-to-test-corona-samples/articleshow/75071821.cms||---
April 10, 2020||Patna||Two doctors axed for dereliction of duty in Bihar||PATNA/GAYA: The state health department has suspended two doctors – one posted in Patna and another in Gaya – on charges of dereliction of duty. The head of the department of microbiology of Patna Medical College and Hospital (PMCH) Dr Satyendra Narayan Singh was suspended for showing slackness in test of samples taken from Covid-19 suspects. PMCH principal Dr V P Choudhary said the letter issued by the health department directed Singh to report to Jan Nayak Karpoori Thakur Medical College, Madhepura, during the period of his suspension. He said Dr R K Srivastava was made the new head of microbiology department and Dr Vijay Kumar would take charge of the virology lab. “The microbiology department is the main centre of where Covid-19 samples are tested in two shifts,” said Dr Choudhary. In Gaya, Dr Shiv Shankar Jha, incharge of the Barachatti PHC, was put under suspension on charges of hampering the anti-coronavirus drive. The action came as a video ostensibly showing the malfunctioning of the Barachatti PHC went viral. In the video, the PHC incharge was seen busy with his mobile, shooing away the visitors and saying that he did not have the wherewithal to address the problem. According to a press statement issued by N K Gupta, deputy director in public relations department at Gaya, the health department suspended Dr Jha on the basis of recommendation made by Gaya DM Abhishek Singh.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/2-doctors-axed-for-dereliction-of-duty/articleshow/75071883.cms||---
April 10, 2020||Patna||Coronavirus: Siwan, Begusarai districts sealed in Bihar||PATNA: All entry and exit points of Siwan and Begusarai districts, the two coronavirus hotspots in the state, were blocked on Thursday. Altogether 20 people have so far been tested positive for coronavirus in Siwan district and four in Begusarai district. The roads leading to Gopalganj and East Champaran districts were also barricaded and police forces deployed there. A large number of migrants from Siwan go to Gulf countries in search of job, which is believed to one of the reasons for the rise in coronavirus cases in the district. Raghunathpur, Nautan, Darauli and Barharia blocks in the district have been identified as worst-affected. The barricades have been erected at Dumaria Ghat and Sattarpur Ghat to restrict movement of vehicles and commuters. “The borders of Siwan district have been sealed and movement of people and plying of vehicles completely banned. Even in emergency, people will not be allowed to venture out of their homes,” DM Amit Kumar Pandey said. He said medical teams would camp at affected villages to conduct test of the inhabitants on a regular basis and collect samples. Personnel of the National Disaster Response Force have been roped in to make locals aware of the importance of total lockdown and subsequent sealing of the district’s boundaries. BMP personnel have also been deployed in Siwan and Begusarai districts to assist the local police. Pandey said essential commodities would be supplied to the people by the government machinery only. The exit and entry points of altogether 37 villages under four blocks, earmarked as containment zone, have been sealed by the district authorities, the DM added. Preventive measures have also been taken in Gopalganj district. “Special surveillance is being maintained in areas falling under Bhore, Thave and Uchkagaon blocks in the district as three people from these areas were tested positive for coronavirus. The villages in the radius of 3km have been sealed,” Gopalganj DM Arshad Aziz said. The Begusarai district administration sealed the entry and exit points of the district with Patna and other neighbouring districts. Two fresh positive cases were reported from Begusarai on Wednesday, taking the total number of corona positive cases to four in the district. The district’s boundary with Samastipur has also been sealed. The state police headquarters has deployed two IPS officers in the office of DIG, Begusarai range, to monitor the situation. The IPS officers – Safi-ul Haq and Vinod Kumar – have been asked to assume charge with immediate effect. Patna DM Kumar Ravi has asked the sub-divisional officer and sub-divisional police officer of Barh to seal the borders of the district with Begusarai as the two from the area tested positive for coronavirus had stayed in Patna before shifting to Begusarai. Similarly, Nawada district authorities have sealed a village after the test report of one of the suspects came positive. DGP Gupteshwar Pandey has asked all the SPs to enforce lockdown more effectively in the state.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/siwan-begusarai-districts-sealed/articleshow/75071796.cms||Ramashankar
April 10, 2020||Rajkot||Gujarat: 2 Chotila lions in search for lioness?||RAJKOT: Two lions, who have made Chobari grassland near Chotila their permanent home for the past four months, are now searching for a lioness!In the last two days, the two sub-adult lions have travelled nearly 80 km. On way, they also mauled a farmer in Kesvala village near Gondal when he suddenly came in front of them on Thursday. The farmer received minor injuries on this right arm. Kesvala village is located on Bagasara road that leads towards Amreli from Gondal. According to forest department officials, the two lions settled in Chobari after separating from their parents pride in Babra in Amreli. The lions are moving and exploring the areas in the entire periphery of Chotila. Officials said that in last two days, the lions went back to Babra and via Jasdan, Vinchhiya they again reached Gondal taluka on Bagasara Road. Chief conservator of forest, Junagadh, S K Shrivastav said, “These lions stay at one location for nearly week and then move out to take a big round. Earlier too, they had reached near Gondal but returned to Chobari. However, this is the first time they have been see on this Bagasara route and it’s possible that they want to mix up with some pride or seeking some female.” Forest officials suspect that they may go in the direction of Junagadh and return to Chobari with a lioness. The lions are crossing the highways during their movement. They were recently spotted crossing the Jasdan-Aatkot Road which is on Rajkot-Bhavnagar route. On Thursday, the 50-year-old farmer named Rupa Mevada came in front of lion suddenly in a danger zone. There was a small clash and Mevada received minor injury. The lion scratched his right arm. Deputy conservator of forest, Sandeep Kumar, said, “We can’t say that it was planned attack. It appears that the farmer unknowingly came very close to lion and he was not aware of their presence.” The lions are in the location near Kesvala village. The forest department is undertaking the awareness campaign among the villagers regarding behaviour in the area of presence of wild animals.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/2-chotila-lions-in-search-for-lioness/articleshow/75073100.cms||Nimesh Khakhariya
April 10, 2020||Hyderabad||US citizens on the edge over repatriation flight||HYDERABAD: As another flight set to take off on Friday, United States citizens stuck in Hyderabad were getting last-minute confirmations till late Thursday evening. Some of them who have been holed up in a city hotel were on tenterhooks about their confirmation of getting on to the flight. One of the fortunate few who got an early confirmation was Murali Krishna Devarakonda who came to the city for work-vacation on March 5. Explaining his flight schedule, he said, “We are set to travel from Hyderabad to Mumbai at 4.15pm and at 10pm from Mumbai to Atlanta. From there, I have booked another flight to reach San Jose, which will arrive at 11.30am PST.” Devarakonda moved into a hotel located in Banjara Hills on Monday where consular staff were meeting US citizens to process them and keep them posted about their travel time. Unlike Devarakonda, some others got confirmations till late Thursday. One passenger speaking on the condition of anonymity said consular officials were being overcautious and re-confirming travel plans repeatedly with some passengers. Having travelled to be with his father, who suffered a brain clot on March 7, the passenger said he was stuck with two toddlers in another district. “I had to use a police travel pass to get here. With the two kids working at nights has become close to impossible,” he said. Describing his situation, the passenger said, “I have been staying at the hotel for the past one week and got a final confirmation on Thursday afternoon.” Several passengers who were sent mails on Sunday about being ‘top priority’ had to wait till Thursday to get final conformation letters. Consular officials have been working round-the-clock to get people on board repatriation flights. As many as 99 United States citizens, including 98 adults and one infant, who were stuck in Hyderabad had left the city aboard a special Air India flight to Mumbai. They were among the 200 US nationals who were flown back to the United States from Mumbai late on Tuesday night.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/us-citizens-on-the-edge-over-repatriation-flight/articleshow/75073378.cms||---
April 10, 2020||Ahmedabad||Gujarat: Dhrangadhra cops use selfies to enforce quarantine||AHMEDABAD: Dhrangadhra police have made it mandatory for those quarantined to mark their presence every one hour. Their physical presence at the police station is not required, but the 47 quarantined persons in their jurisdiction have to upload selfies of themselves inside their homes every one hour and have to fill up a form on their health every four hours. According to assistant superintendent of police, Dhrangadhra, Shaifali Barwal, not only does this ensure their personnel are not put to risk, but also that the person quarantined does not leave home. “If the person reports a fever, a health team is informed immediately and medical assistance reaches them,” she said. Barwal said that their app is for the 72 village in Dhrangadhra taluka. Barwal said that on Wednesday another app was launched using which people can inform the department if they have come into contact with suspected or confirmed Covid-19 cases. She said that superintendent of police Mahendra Bagria gave all requisite permisssions and help for the launches of these apps. A local IT expert Vimalrajsinh Parmar helped the department in develop them. “As these are village folk they tend to think police will catch them and put them in isolation, but we are launching a drive to raise awareness so they can quarantine themselves,” she said. A senior police office said that the department has even quarantined those who have travelled to districts such as Ahmedabad, Rajkot, Bhavnagar or Surat besides those who travelled outside the state or country. The officer said that this has helped ensure the taluka did not report any Covid-19 cases so far. The officer said a small control room has been set up in Dhrangadhra and the patients are regularly monitored. “If someone fails to upload a photo, we call to ask why and inquire about their health first.” With Parmar’s help, the department also also prepared an electronic form that can be filled in by those with symptoms and uploaded to their website or app. The form asks them if they have fever, cough or any other symptoms and if they have noticed similar symptoms in their neighbours.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/dhrangadhra-cops-use-selfies-to-enforce-quarantine/articleshow/75072771.cms||Himanshu Kaushik
April 10, 2020||Kolkata||Kolkata schools consider breather for parents, may roll back fee hike||KOLKATA: The long lockdown period, which comes with an additional burden of severe economic crisis in families, has resulted in several schools considering reducing the school-fee load this session. Some city schools are also thinking of rolling back their fee hike. Education minister Partha Chatterjee on Thursday requested private schools to reconsider the increase in school fees, and, if possible, provide some relief to the guardians in light of the extreme situation prevailing across the country. South Point High School, which had decided to increase the fee this year, is considering providing some respite to the guardians. “We have received requests from parents to consider a reduction of the financial burden. There are six or seven days before we start collection of school fee. We are not rejecting the appeals now and are trying to explore possibilities to see in what manner we can help the parents out, at least for April,” said school spokesperson Krishna Damani. He added that, usually, the parents are required to pay a bi-monthly fee. “Since everything is in turmoil, we have already communicated to the guardians that the school will collect the fee on a monthly basis till May,” Damani said. The authorities of Don Bosco School Park Circus had plans to restructure and increase the salary for the teachers since the sixth-pay commission proposals need to be incorporated in the pay scale. “We are likely to draw up a proposal, which will be placed before the Founders’ Body for approval, in which we may consider a reprieve for parents from the burden of paying the current school fee amount. However, there is yet no decision,” said principal Fr Bikash Mondal. Apeejay School has informed the parents of its students that the payment of the first-quarter fee, which is scheduled to be paid within April 15, can now be paid beyond this month and no late fine will be charged. At Vivekananda Mission School, a proposal has been forwarded to the managing committee to take some decisions on humanitarian grounds because of the curr-ent crisis. Another prominent city school has sent an email to the parents where it has been mentioned that the deadline to submit the school fee has been extended to May. “This year, the school has also hiked the fee by 7% to 9%. Though a proposal is pending, the management may decide to roll back the increased fee,” said a teacher. One of the CISCE-affiliated schools in the city are also considering similar moves to partially or completely roll back the increased fee. it had been hiked by 5% to 7% this academic session. Modern High School director Devi Kar said, “Considering these trying times, we need to reconsider the school fee and provide some reprieve to the parents. However, we are yet to arrive at any decision. However, it is likely to be decided soon.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/schools-consider-breather-for-parents-may-roll-back-fee-hike/articleshow/75073987.cms||---
April 10, 2020||Ahmedabad||Gujarat: Terms of 4 MPs end, seats to remain vacant till election||GANDHINAGAR: The terms of four Gujarat Rajya Sabha members ended on Thursday, without an  being held for their seats. The Election Commission of India earlier deferred the March 26 Rajya Sabha election because of the lockdown due to the coronavirus pandemic. The terms of three BJP MPs, Shambhu Prasad Tundiya, Chunibhai Gohel and Lalsinh Vadodiya, along with that of Congress MP Madhusudan Mistry, ended on Thursday. S Murali Krishna, chief electoral officer (CEO), Gujarat said, “According to the rules and the directions of the EC, the term of four Rajya Sabha MPs of Gujarat have ended and the seats will be considered vacant till the deferred elections are held. He added that the ECI has not issued a notification for fresh election dates due to the coronavirus pandemic. The BJP had nominated fielded three candidates - Abhay Bhardwaj, Ramila Bara and Narhari Amin while the Congress nominated two candidates, Bharatsinh Solanki and Shaktisinh Gohil, for the Rajya Sabha elections.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/terms-of-4-mps-end-seats-to-remain-vacant-till-election/articleshow/75072889.cms||Kapil Dave
April 10, 2020||Ahmedabad||4 of 1,095 jamaatis from other states positive: DGP||Ahmedabad: Three more Tablighi Jamaat members who had gone to Nizamuddin Markaz in Delhi have been identified and quarantined, said DGP Shivananad Jha on Friday. He said that till Thursday the total number of Jamaat members from Gujarat who had been identified was 127 and now the number has gone up to 130. He added that these new members are from Bhavnagar and one of the three has tested positive for Covid-19.DGP Jha said 1,095 jamaatis who had come to Gujarat from other states in total 84 jamaats (groups) have been identified and of these four have tested positive.“Out of these 1,095 jamaatis from other states, 25 are from Karnataka, 19 from Tamil Nadu, and the rest from different states. Four in Bharuch have tested positive and have been sent for treatment,” Jha said.Speaking on rampant violation of lockdown in cities, Jha said, “We are now identifying people who com one roads without valid reason through Automatic Number Plate Recognition Software (APMR). With the help of APMR we have registered 15 lockdown violation cases. We have also started patrolling with CCTV camera installed vehicles to identify such persons. We are carrying videographers with us in police vehicles with the same intention,” DGP Jha added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/4-of-1095-jamaatis-from-other-states-positive-dgp/articleshow/75088355.cms||---
April 10, 2020||Business||Auto companies delay launches, stall expansion due to Covid-19||CHENNAI: Many of the gleaming new models that were showcased in the Auto Expo earlier this year will have their launches deferred as motown grapples with the supply, production and demand disruption caused by the Covid-19 pandemic and the resultant lockdown. Besides, companies are expecting severe demand contraction and hence holding back planned investments, in marketing, product launches and expansion. Already, car companies like PSA, Mahindra, Honda, Mercedes Benz and others are either delaying their car launches or reviewing their product strategy for the new financial year. Earlier this week, PSA Groupe announced it would “re-time the launch of its debut vehicle the Citroën C5 Aircross SUV to Q1 2021, while ensuring industrial readiness. The re-timing is aimed to move the commercial launch to a potentially more positive economic activity period,” the company said in a statement. PSA isn’t the only one. Mahindra dealer sources say its three major upgrades for 2020 — Thar, XUV500 and Scorpio — will be delayed due to the Covid-19 situation. The immediate launch delay will likely be of the new Thar which was due for roll out in the first quarter of this fiscal. When contacted, the M&M spokesman refused to comment. Similarly Honda’s new City launch and WR-V facelift have both been postponed due to the lockdown. The new City was scheduled in mid-April but has been deferred due to the lockdown. The WR-V facelift “was planned end-March and pre-booking had already opened for it,” said the Honda Cars India spokesperson. “We want to launch it as soon as production resumes and business activity at dealerships starts,” she added. Others are currently reviewing the situation and will take a call shortly. Dealer sources say Kia will take a call on reviewing the launch plans of their sub-4 metre SUV Sonet around August this year if the current lockdown gets extended. Even luxury car brands are not immune to the Covid-19 effect. Mercedes Benz India, which is scheduled to launch a series of new models including the new GLS, A Class limosine, new GLA among others, is talking of launch delays. “There may be some delays but we do not expect any change in the products we will launch in the coming months,” said Martin Schwenk, president & CEO, Mercedes Benz India. Even deep pocket two wheeler companies are talking about cutting back expansion plans in an effort to reduce costs. Hero MotoCorp CFO Niranjan Gupta said last week, “We will defer some of the planned expenses such as capacity expansion.” Truck companies though will be less impacted because with the BS6 shift many of them don’t have any new launches lined up immediately. “For us it was mainly upgradation of all products or new launches as per BS6 norms and that has mostly happened successfully,” said Vinod Aggarwal, MD & CEO, Volvo Eicher Commercial Vehicles.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/auto-cos-delay-launches-stall-expansion-due-to-covid-19/articleshow/75072769.cms||Nandini Sen Gupta
April 10, 2020||Hubballi||Techies sell veggies online, ensure door delivery||Haveri: Three techies, working from home here due to the lockdown, have been selling vegetables online during their spare time and providing door delivery to customers. They go to the farm or APMC market early in the morning, pick up the vegetables, wash and pack them under hygienic conditions and sell them at affordable rates thereby ensuring social distancing. Sushilendra Kulkarni, an HR executive in Terento Technologies Pvt Ltd, Bengaluru, Sujay Hublikar, team lead at Reliance Mart, Raghavendra Desai, senior academic executive with Vedantu and Gangadhar, a resident of Haveri doing his PUC, are involved in this business. “After buying vegetables from farmers or from the Haveri market, we discard the spoiled items. We then sort them according to size, colour and quality,” said Sujay. Raghavendra said: “We wash vegetables to remove germs and dirt. Taking order details received on www.staysafehaveri.in, we ship the vegetables out.” Sushilendra said: “We dispatch vegetables in clean plastic crates to avoid excess use of polythene and ensure we’re environment-friendly. Our delivery staff take the items to the customers’ doorstep through goods vehicles.” He added: “We started this service because people because need to stay at home as social distancing is very important in the fight against coronavirus. We’ve been selling groceries too. We started this on April 1 and orders have been increasing gradually.” “It’s an innovative idea. During this Covid-19 outbreak, door delivery and hygienic vegetables are much needed,” said Raju Petkar, a customer.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hubballi/techies-sell-veggies-online-ensure-door-delivery/articleshow/75070541.cms||---
April 10, 2020||Hubballi||Hubballi patient travelled by air, bus and autorickshaw||Dharwad: The 27-year-old man from Hubballi, who tested positive for Covid-19 on Thursday, and who is identified as P-194, had visited Hyderabad, Delhi, Agra and Mumbai, between March 16 and 20. According to the district administration, he travelled by air, bus and autorickshaw during this period. According to the patient’s travel history released by the district administration on Thursday, P-194 along with his brother, left Hubballi for Hyderabad on March 16 by VRL bus. He reached Hyderabad at 5:30 am on March 17, and boarded a flight at 8:45 am to Delhi. After completing his business-related work in Delhi on March 17, he stayed at a hotel there. On March 18, P-194 left Delhi for Agra in the morning, and returned to Delhi the same evening by Gomati Express, and stayed overnight in Delhi. On March 19, he boarded an Air Asia plane at 5:50 am from Delhi and reached Mumbai at 8:30 am. He then left for Hubballi by VRL bus (MH-09-EM-3230) at 9 pm, and reached Hubballi at 8 am on March 20. He took an autorickshaw from the Old Bus Stand in Hubballi to to his house at Mullana Oni. He was placed under quarantine since his return, and his blood and throat swab samples were sent for testing on April 6. Deputy commissioner Deepa Cholan has asked the people who have travelled along with P-194 to dial 104 or 1077, and undergo thermal screening. Primary contacts have been asked to visit the nearest government hospital at the earliest.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hubballi/hubballi-patient-travelled-by-air-bus-and-autorickshaw/articleshow/75070574.cms||---
April 10, 2020||Patna||PWC reaches out to transgender, others||PATNA: At a time when most staff and students of city colleges are forced to stay indoors following coronavirus outbreak, more than 15 staff of Patna Women’s College (PWC) and some students are busy providing food materials, sanitizers and face masks to the members of the transgender community and other underprivileged sections of the society. On Thursday, they supplied one-month ration to as many as 146 members of the transgender community residing at Patna, Vaishali and Ara. The ration comprised rice, pulse, razma, potatoes and sugar, sufficient enough for their requirement for about a month. Besides, the needy people were also given sanitizers and disposable masks prepared by them. PWC principal Sister Maria Rashmi said the idea to supply food materials and the much-needed sanitizers and face masks came to her mind when she saw an appeal for help from the members of the transgender community on a social media platform. “I immediately talked to all the sisters and students staying inside the college and decided to offer all sorts of help to the needy. We contacted the member of an NGO working for the welfare of transgender and finalized the details of supply of ration and other materials. The NGO member, Reshma Prasad, said she would pick up materials from us and distribute the same among the needy people. We immediately collected the required materials from the market and started preparing food packets and face masks for them,” said the principal. To begin with, food packets meant for 140 people were supplied on April 4. As some members of the transgender community demanded face masks and sanitizers, the sisters of PWC started making masks with the help of sewing machines available with the home science department of the college. “They prepared at least 400 face masks till Wednesday,” said Sister Rashmi.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/pwc-reaches-out-to-transgender-others/articleshow/75071694.cms||B K Mishra
April 10, 2020||Business||India can meet global HCQ demand with domestic: Ipca||Rupali Mukherjee | TNN Mumbai: Ipca Labs has said there is a large supply of hydroxychloroquine (HCQ), the much-touted drug being used for treating certain Covid-19 patients, with the capacity in India built for global markets besides meeting the country’s demand. The Mumbai-based pharmaceutical company is one of the two largest manufacturers of HCQ. Ipca is not part of the US supply line at present due to certain logistical issues, but hopes to catch up soon in about a month’s time. It is, for now, helping the Indian government to build its buffer stock of 10 crore dosages, and an additional 3-4 crore dosages for state governments. The cost of producing the drug “is moving up with certain solvents and chemicals used in it more than doubling”. “But we will absorb them,” says Ipca Labs joint MD A K Jain, adding the hit on margins will be minimal with large volumes being sold. “We have a completely integrated plant with key starting materials and raw materials (APIs), and we are ramping up production to 26 metric tonnes over the next one and a half months. A greenfield plant cannot be set up to meet the demand. So, we are identifying and sorting the bottlenecks. We will be adding additional packing lines at the same facility where HCQ is manufactured, ordering additional machine parts (for filtration and reactors) and excipients, and getting the government’s clearances required for any proposed increase,” he told TOI. Also, for domestic orders as well as exports — packing materials, bottles, aluminium, cartons — the entire supply chain has to be upgraded. The company was producing around 3 metric tonnes per month, and will now produce 20 metric tonnes (about 10 crore pills). “There are no supply chain issues (for us), and even in the peak of China lockdown in February-March, we did not face disruption in production as the import of basic chemicals was another part of China, not Wuhan,” he clarified. Alkem, Torrent, Wallace, Micro Labs and Cipla are other manufacturers, but produced minimal quantities in March.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/india-can-meet-global-hcq-demand-with-domestic-ipca/articleshow/75073557.cms||Rupali Mukherjee
April 10, 2020||Business||After 7 wks in red, sensex sees gains||Mumbai: Riding on strong buying in auto stocks, the sensex on Thursday rallied 1,266 points to close at 31,160 — a three week-high level — as falling Covid infection numbers around the world boosted sentiment. However, in India, the numbers are still rising and economists are warning of severe pain for the economy before any signs of revival could be visible. Thursday’s close in the holiday-shortened week was also the sensex’s first gain after seven consecutive weeks of slide. At end of trading, the sensex was up 3,569 points — or nearly 13%. And going by the technical definition of a Bull market — that is, a rally of 20% or more from the recent low — the Indian market qualifies for that since the index has gained 21.5% since its March 23 low of 25,639. According to Anand Rathi Shares & Stock Brokers head (equity research - fundamental) Narendra Solanki, the Indian market started on a positive note, taking upbeat cues from Asian peers as policymakers discuss how and when the global economy could reopen, with data showing a slowing spread of the coronavirus. “In afternoon trades, the markets strengthened further on the back of expectations of a second stimulus package for India, which could be worth around Rs 1 lakh crore with the focus on helping small and medium businesses,” he said. The day’s session also recorded a net foreign fund inflow of Rs 1,738 crore, while domestic funds had a net outflow worth Rs 466 crore, BSE data showed. The day’s gains added Rs 4 lakh crore to investors’ wealth, with the BSE’s market capitalisation now at Rs 120.3 lakh crore. At close, M&M, up 16.7%, Maruti, up 13.2% and Hero Motors, up 9.7%, were among the top sensex gainers. Banking & financials like HDFC Bank, ICICI Bank and Kotak Bank also contributed to the sensex’s 4.2% gain. On the other hand, some of the top gainers in the past few weeks — HUL and Nestle — were among the laggards in Thursday’s session.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/after-7-wks-in-red-sensex-sees-gains/articleshow/75073452.cms||---
April 10, 2020||Business||Rupee hits new intraday low of 76.55||Mumbai: The rupee hit a new all-time low of 76.55 in intraday trade on Thursday even as equity markets rebounded. Dealers said the thin trade had added to the volatility as sentiment was largely negative. “In a risk-averse situation, funds will gravitate to US treasuries and the dollar will continue to gain as long as there is uncertainty,” said a private bank executive. The local unit opened at 78.11, but slipped sharply in thin trade. However, it closed at 76.29, up 5 paise over its previous close of 76.34. Bankers said that while there have been some inflows of dollars through the investment route, it is uncertain whether these can be sustained given that the Covid-19 crisis is not seen to have peaked. The RBI has curbed trading hours as banks are finding it difficult to staff their dealing rooms and many bankers are operating remotely with some facing connectivity issues. “The pace of depreciation in the rupee has weakened due to lower rate of outflows and increased RBI intervention. Over the next few weeks, the key data to watch will the infection curve of Covid-19, followed by any signs of whether the second wave is emerging in China or not. If the curve continues to flatten across the globe, then it will help the rupee recover lost ground. Otherwise, the local currency can continue to inch towards 77.50 levels,” said Anindya Banerjee, DVP, currency derivatives & interest rate derivatives, at Kotak Securities.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/rupee-hits-new-intraday-low-of-76-55/articleshow/75073473.cms||---
April 10, 2020||Patna||2 rhinos housed at new breeding centre||PATNA: In a first, the Sanjay Gandhi Biological Park, commonly known as Patna zoo, opened a ‘Rhino Breeding Centre’ on its premises on Wednesday evening. It will help boost the population of rhinos as they are critically endangered species. A pair of one-horned rhinos — Lali and Ganesh — were housed at the centre under the supervision of zookeepers. “So far as the population of rhinos is concerned, the Patna zoo tops the list in the country. At present, it has five male and six female rhinos. The breeding centre will keep them away from public viewing and provide natural surroundings,” environment, forest and climate change department principal secretary Dipak Kumar Singh told this newspaper on Thursday. The newly opened breeding facility is spread over an area of 3.5 acres of land between the new lake and the jungle trail area. Its foundation stone was laid in 2017. The centre consists of a night house, a forest area and an open arena. The breeding area also has a marshy patch, a lake, and grassland to provide a natural habitat to the rhinos for mating. An LCD screen will soon be installed outside the centre which can accommodate up to 20 rhinos at a time. Zoo director Amit Kumar said, “The new night house is bigger than the usual ones.” A pair of rhinos were first brought to the Patna zoo from Assam in 1979. Since then their number has gone up to 11.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/2-rhinos-housed-at-new-breeding-centre/articleshow/75072001.cms||Faryal Rumi
April 10, 2020||Surat||Two arrested with passes forged with collector’s sign||Surat: Two persons were arrested for possessing three duplicate passes signed by the district collector. Puna police arrested Ayyub Haider Shaikh, 50, and Mohammad Farooq Shaikh, 35, near Avadh Textile Market and found passes with forged signature of district collector on them. The space for name on the passes was blank and the trio had tried to enter Sardar Market Agriculture Produce Market Committee. The operations at the APMC have been brought under strict control due to heavy crowding.Preliminary investigation revealed that the trio took photo copies of original passes. Since the pass had no names, it could be used by multiple users, police suspect. Police are also investigating if they were trying to sell the passes to someone.Meanwhile, Adajan police arrested a fair price shop owner Rajendra Chavat for allegedly selling bidis from his shop near the fire station. Cops found 11 packets of bidis and he was booked under sections of IPC, Epidemic Disease Act and Gujarat Epidemic Disease Covid 19 Regulations.In all, police registered 178 offences on Wednesday for violation public notification and negligence that can spread infectious disease. Using drone camera, 20 cases were lodged for assembling at same spot. Total 328 persons were arrested and 269 vehicles detained.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/two-arrested-with-passes-forged-with-collectors-sign/articleshow/75073179.cms||---
April 10, 2020||Rajkot||Rape survivor attempts suicide; accused booked||Rajkot: A 16-year-old rape survivor attempted suicide by jumping from a 50-feet water tank in Pachasvadia Quarters locality in Palitana of Bhavnagar district on Wednesday. Police said after the survivor attempted suicide and was admitted to Sir T Hospital in Bhavnagar, her brother lodged a complaint against the accused, identified as Jairaj Kotila. The accused was booked on Wednesday night.“In his complaint, the brother of the survivor alleged that Kotila had raped his sister two months ago after threatening to kill her brother. Kotila continued to intimidate and harass the survivor, tired of which she decided to end her life,” said an official from Palitana police station.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/rape-survivor-attempts-suicide-accused-booked/articleshow/75073145.cms||---
April 10, 2020||Ahmedabad||Ahmedabad: Two caught trafficking country liquor in ambulance||AHMEDABAD: Naroda police on Wednesday night caught two persons, Manish Thakor and Lalit Rajput, ferrying country liquor in an ambulance. Police said during their interrogation the accused said they decided to use an ambulance as private vehicles are banned due to coronavirus restrictions and no one would intercept an ambulance. Naroda police said they recovered 11 polythene bags of country liquor from the ambulance. Senior police officials said liquor trafficking has gone down to almost nil as there is a high level of police presence on the roads and every vehicle is being checked. Sources said home delivery of liquor, at high prices, is still going on in the city. “It can be said that trafficking of liquor has gone down by 80%,” said a source. According to police sources, while on patrol near Chiloda Circle on Wednesday night, they got an input that liquor would be trafficked in a white ambulance. Police officials said they laid a watch and flagged down the vehicle as it came from the direction of Himmatnagar. “On checking the vehicle, 11 bags of country liquor was found,” said a police official.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/two-caught-trafficking-country-liquor-in-ambulance/articleshow/75072783.cms||---
April 10, 2020||Ahmedabad||Gujarat: Small group with big hearts giving 6,000 food packets a day||AHMEDABAD: Moved by the plight of migrant workers, a small group of citizens — Shree Sava Foundation — began with distributing milk and biscuits. Today, without accepting any external donations, they are supplying over 6,000 food packets daily to the authorities for distribution to the needy. The group ensures hygienic practices are followed and they also check volunteers who prepare food daily. It was on March 31 that the foundation members first thought of distributing food after watching thousands of labourers marching homewards, without money, food or even water. “We decided to give them biscuits and tea. As we began distribution, police officials requested us to also give some snacks to the labourers, which they could eat on their journey,” said Ami Modi, a member of the group. The group responded immediately, and prepared and distributed 300 food packets on March 31 for dinner, and on April 1, they took in some volunteers and began in earnest. “We prepared and distributed 1,500 food packets on April 1,” Modi said. In the beginning, the group distributed the food themselves, but then AMC and police told them that they will do the job of distribution. “We agreed, and today the foundation supplied 1,000 food packets to AMC, 1,500 food packets each to Danilimda and Isanpur police stations, 350 to Sarkhej police and 250 to Vasna police station. The packets were given free of cost for distribution to the needy,” said Parmesh Modi. The food packets are also distributed in Shilaj, Bopal and Behrampura areas. Nishal Shah, a volunteer of the group said, “Hasmukh Shah, father of Ami Modi passed away on Sunday, and after his last rites the group went back to the work. The Modi couple, despite their sorrow, also joined us.” Shah said it was suggested in a recent meeting of the group that the food packets should have variety and not just consist of kadi khichdi and chapati and vegetables. “So we even supply pav bhaji, mixed vegetables and pulav among other dishes,” said Shah. About finances, Shah said, “The foundation has enough funds though people are coming forward to help us. Apart from donations from within our group of five to six members we have turned down others.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/small-group-with-big-hearts-giving-6000-food-packets-a-day/articleshow/75072805.cms||Himanshu Kaushik
April 10, 2020||Patna||Myanmar Airways seeks nod to operate two flights||GAYA: Myanmar Airways International wants to operate two special flights on April 15 from Gaya International Airport to evacuate Myanmar nationals stranded in different parts of eastern India. According to sources, more than 200 Myanmar nationals are currently stranded at different places in eastern India due to the nationwide lockdown that began on March 25. Gaya Airport director Dilip Kumar, a representative of the Myanmar International Airlines (MIA), at a meet held at the airport conference hall on Thursday said that the airlines would operate two flights on April 15. Responding to the request of the airlines, the airport director advised the MIA representative to seek necessary clearances from the Union ministry of external affairs and Directorate General of Civil Aviation (DGCA). The airport director made it clear that without the necessary clearances, it would not be possible to provide air traffic control (ATC) watch to the airlines. Meanwhile, the Central Industrial Security Force (CISF) personnel deployed at the Gaya airport have made it clear that at least four sets of personal protective equipment (PPE) would be required for frisking passengers in the security hold area at the airport. Representatives of Air India and IndiGo, the two domestic airlines operating from Gaya airport told the airport director that there will be no flights till April 30. Meanwhile, the Gaya airport officials have started the process to acquire three automatic sanitiser machines. The machines will be installed at the airport entry gate, airside and arrival areas.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/myanmar-airways-seeks-nod-to-operate-two-flights/articleshow/75071911.cms||Abdul Qadir
April 10, 2020||Patna||Covid-19: Begusarai youths did not attend Delhi meet||BEGUSARAI/NAWADA: The two Covid-19 positive cases from Begusarai reported on Thursday had no connection with the Tableegh Markaz held in mid-March in Delhi, but were present at local congregations, Begusarai DM Arvind Kumar has said. “Both persons who have tested positive had been in close contact with two persons in the district, who had tested positive on Tuesday,” the DM said. Sources said the two Covid-19 patients aged 15 and 18 years are reported to have visited various mosques at Teghra, Bachhwara and Mansoor Chak blocks of the district between March 21 and April 6. The local police got preliminary medical examination conducted of some youths staying at the Bachhwara mosque recently. Two minors with symptoms of the disease were sent to the isolation ward of the local sadar hospital and their samples tested positive on Tuesday. The other youths had been quarantined in the mosque itself while two others tested positive on Thursday. The district administration has sealed a 3-km radius around the houses of Covid-19 positive patients. Several neighbours have been quarantined and asked to undergo medical tests. Meanwhile, fresh samples of a Nawada-based Tableegh attendee were sent for Covid-19 test on Thursday. Additional chief medical officer of Nawada Sadar hospital, Dr Jitendra Nath, confirmed that a fresh sample of a 38-year-old man, currently in isolation ward of sadar hospital, has been sent for re-diagnosis and confirmation at the IGIMS, Patna. Sources said the man had returned to Nawada from Delhi on March 3 by Jharkhand Express coach number- S8. His wife said neither her husband nor their three kids, have showed any sign of illness or discomfort following his arrival.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/begusarai-youths-did-not-attend-delhi-meet/articleshow/75071852.cms||Rajiv Kumar
April 10, 2020||Goa||HC moved over lack of facilities in Goa for repatriated seafarers||PANAJI: The high court of Bombay at Goa has converted a letter into a public interest litigation which seeks to direct the government to provide proper infrastructure for testing and containing coronavirus before allowing Goan seafarers stranded across the globe to return to the state. The petitioner, Mukesh Chhaganlal Patel, stated that there are 8,000 Goans stranded abroad, but the facilities in Goa for quarantine and treatment would cater to about only 300 patients. During the hearing of the case, Patel agreed to make the central government party in the case after advocate general Devidas Pangam stressed that allowing people from abroad to come back to the country, including Goa, is a policy decision involving the Central government Justice Dama Sheshadri Naidu directed the court’s registry to convert the letter into a public interest petition which will be heard on April 15 .||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/hc-moved-over-lack-of-facilities-in-goa-for-repatriated-seafarers/articleshow/75074017.cms||---
April 10, 2020||Goa||Cured patient moved to quarantine facility||Panaji: One person who was declared cured of Covid-19 on Wednesday was transferred to a quarantine facility in North Goa on Thursday, while six patients are still under treatment at ESI hospital, Margao. As per protocol, the person is required to stay in at a monitored quarantine facility before final discharge. Chief minister Pramod Sawant said the condition of the other six patients was improving. There are 12 patients admitted to the isolation ward at Goa Medical College and Hospital. It includes the four who were admitted on Thursday. As many as 45 suspects were placed under home quarantine on Thursday. Of the 24 samples sent for testing, nine have tested negative for the virus, while 15 reports are awaited.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/cured-patient-moved-to-quarantine-facility/articleshow/75074032.cms||---
April 10, 2020||Mysuru||Utilise lockdown period by concentrating on studies: DDPU||Mysuru: Students should make use of lockdown period by concentrating more on their subjects rather than wasting time worrying about coronavirus, said GR Geetha, DDPU, Mysuru district. “Owing to the postponement of English exam, they are not able to focus on studies, which the board fears would affect their overall pass percentage. The department is now planning to help the students by holding a few classes before holding exams,” she said. “Students should focus on the subjects instead of worrying about coronavirus which may divert their concentration and hit preparations for the forthcoming entrance exams. I request students not to panic and make use of vacation to the maximum extent. They should concentrate on CET, NEET and other such entrance exams,” she said. “As there are no coaching classes in colleges, already many of the aided colleges are getting their students prepared through online teaching by expert lecturers. Tthe question papers are in treasury and once the minister gives his nod we are ready to go ahead with the exam,” added Geetha. CET was scheduled on April 22 and 23 but is postponed. G Sridhar, founder of Deeksha, said: “Given that the competitive exams have been postponed to the last week of May (NEET and JEE), students can utilise this time to prepare to the best of their abilities. Major subjects like Maths, Physics, Chemistry and Biology typically have about 30 chapters each. Students can complete one chapter per day and still have plenty of time to revise and take extra mock tests”. “The best way to approach their preparation is to study a chapter with an end-objective in mind. Choose a chapter, study the chapter and then write a test on it to ensure comprehensive learning. Once all chapters are done, a student must do at least 15 mock tests. The present Class XII students have to make the most of the next two months to bring themselves to a level-playing field with students who are repeating the JEE and NEET exams,” said Sridhar.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mysuru/utilise-lockdown-period-by-concentrating-on-studies-ddpu/articleshow/75071377.cms||---
April 10, 2020||Varanasi||‘Dignity kits’ distributed among migrant labourers||VARANASI: Dignity kits are being distributed to migrant labourers who are stranded in several shelter homes following large scale migration from Delhi and NCR region between March 28 and 31 due to the Covid-19 lockdown. The kits contain toothbrush, toothpaste, soaps, hair oil, shampoo, clothes including innerwear, sanitary pad, shaving kits and other articles. There are separate kits for men and women. These kits have been produced by 11 NDRF battalion and distributed by Varanasi and Chandauli administrations. The kits were distributed to the stranded workers in Chandauli with the help of Varanasi range IG V S Mina and Chandauli SP Hemant Kutiyal on Thursday. Divisional commissioner Deepak Agrawal said, “The migrant workers and their families are unable to arrange for essentials to ensure personal hygiene, which is a must to combat the coronavirus. The NDRF informed us about the dignity kits and we immediately distributed them.” According to Agrawal, in Varanasi, over 200 labourers are staying at a public school, 59 at Jawahar Navodaya Vidyalaya near Mohansarai, 60 at a school in Pindra and 59 at Cantonment railway station. Whereas, around 220 people are stranded at a shelter home Pt Deen Dayal Upadhyaya Nagar in Chandauli. The 11 NDRF battalion spokesperson said, “The dignity kits are distributed during natural disasters like flood and other calamities. The battalion had 2,250 kits in its stock and we decided to hand them over to district officials for distribution among the needy. The administration then deemed it best to distribute them among stranded migrant workers.” “These kits are supplied to each battalion by the NDRF headquarters in Delhi. The headquarters have been requested to make more such kits available,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/varanasi/dignity-kits-distributed-among-migrant-labourers/articleshow/75071204.cms||---
April 10, 2020||Mangaluru||MCC planning to demolish Central Market||The Dakshina Kannada district administration has banned all activities at the Central Market in the wake of the spread of Covid-19 and all wholesale merchants have been asked to shift business to the APMC yard in Bykampady. In the meantime, the Mangaluru City Corporation (MCC) has been mulling to demolish the decades old market buildings at the Central Market to facilitate the construction of a new one. MCC commissioner Shanady Ajith Kumar Hegde has already issued a public notice announcing the closure of Central Market. Mangaluru Smart City Limited (MSCL) has already earmarked Rs 145 crore for the redevelopment of the Central Market. Vendors may approach the APMC yard at Baikampady where they will be given space to carry out their business, he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mangaluru/mcc-planning-to-demolish-central-market/articleshow/75072413.cms||---
April 10, 2020||Visakhapatnam||Andhra Pradesh: Chicken shortage looms with breeding suspended||VISAKHAPATNAM: Scarcity of chicken seems inevitable in the state owing to a shortage of chicken feed, losses incurred by the farmers in the past few months and suspension of breeding of chicks. Many firms, which supply chicks are on the verge of closure. The state requires four crore kilograms of white meat per month. The three north AP districts alone consume 40 lakh birds (80 lakh kg). The state has around 1,500 commercial poultry farms and more than 2,500 integrated poultry farms. Till March 21, prices of chicken dipped owing to rumours linking it with coronavirus infection. But with the government dispelling such rumours and a steady rise in demand, the price of chicken in a few places have hit Rs 250 for a kilo. But in reality, while farmers are getting only Rs 60 per live bird, middlemen are selling them for Rs 100 each to meat shops. “People will face a chicken scarcity from the first week of May as breeding of chicks has become a difficult task for farmers. There is no feed as soya comes from Maharashtra. Besides, rise in prices of commodities hasn’t helped. Two major companies in AP and Odisha, respectively, have stopped supplying chicks to farms,” owner of Vizianagaram Hatcheries Gandhi Reddy told TOI. Explaining further about the looming shortage, Broiler Chicken Association president Thatraj said, “The bodyweight of the birds has also declined from 2 kg to 1.6 kg due to the non-availability of feed. There will be a shortage of around 25 lakh birds in the coming month.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/visakhapatnam/chicken-shortage-looms-with-breeding-suspended/articleshow/75074025.cms||Siva G
April 10, 2020||Goa||Panaji mariner stranded at Lankan hotel||PANAJI: A Panaji-resident, who had travelled to Sri Lanka on March 8 with his return flight scheduled for March 31, has been left stranded in a hotel near Colombo since, as flights to India were suspended in view of the Covid-19 situation. The mariner, who did not want to be named, had travelled to Negombo, around 30kms from Colombo, to attend to some personal work, said he has been left terrified now with no signs of the flights resuming. “Just around the time I was to return, the one week ban on flights was imposed, which was later extended till April 14. I have waited patiently for so long, but now it seems like the ban will be extended for god knows for how long. I have a wife and two kids aged 5 and 11, and a 76-year-old mother back home in Panaji. I am feeling helpless,” said the mariner. The Goan said he has been in constant touch with the Indian embassy in Colombo as well as Goa government, but officials have conveyed that they cannot help transport him back home until the Indian government lifts the bans imposed on flights. “I am the only Goan stranded here in Sri Lanka, as per the information provided by the Indian embassy. In the hotel where I am put up, I am the only customer here left with the hotel manager and his wife. The couple share with me whatever food they cook for themselves. Even the hotel staff has been sent home due to the Covid-19 situation,” the mariner said. He said that though the Indian embassy had suggested some hotels where other Indians are staying and where he can shift, he decided to continue at the Negombo hotel as the room tariff was reduced considerably by the hotel for him. “I am spending around $35 per day now. But what I am worried about is my family back home and they are equally worried for me. It is frightening here as we know nobody. In any case, when we return to India, we will be quarantined for 14 days, then why the delay in airlifting us,” said the Panjimite.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/panaji-mariner-stranded-at-lankan-hotel/articleshow/75074056.cms||---
April 10, 2020||Hyderabad||Now, Australian High Commission mulls charter flight option for stranded citizens||HYDERABAD: To help the Australian citizens who are stranded in India, the Australian High Commission is mulling organising a charter flight to ferry them back. “We have been working on charter flight options from India and have been communicating with Australians who have registered. We conducted a survey of Australians to assess demand for charter flights. As part of that, we highlighted the likely cost range to determine if people were prepared to pay," said the spokesperson of the Australian High Commission in New Delhi over e-mail. According to citizens that TOI spoke to, the average cost per person for a charter flight is about $3,000 to $5,000 (Australian dollars) -- Rs 1.4 lakh to Rs 2.3 lakh. Recently, the USA and Germany arranged flights to evacuate their citizens from various parts of India. “The High Commission has been very responsive. They have been constantly updating us about the situation. We are certain they’ll work out a solution soon,” said Juhee Ahmed, an Australian citizen living in Hyderabad. She wanted to travel to Melbourne where her son is living alone. But while Ahmed isn’t too perturbed by the situation, those like Inderjeet Kulchania are. The businessman from Adelaide who came to India on work, failed to get a flight back home before the lockdown. “My wife and two young kids are there, and I desperately want to go back. I am willing to pay whatever is needed. I approached the Australian High Commission several times, but in vain. The officials there told me that there were only 125 takers for the charter flight and hence it wasn’t a plausible option,” Kulchania told TOI. “We hear that someone has organised a private charter flight from Delhi to Melbourne on April 11. But since we cannot establish the authenticity of the carrier, we are wary of availing it,” he added. Caught in a similar situation is Mrinalini Dwivedi, a permanent resident of Australia, now living in Bengaluru. Her husband recently moved to Sydney on a new assignment. “During such times, it is emotionally very difficult for people to survive alone. That’s why I want to join him as soon as possible. But even though we are willing to pay the steep fare, there’s still no confirmation about a charter flight from the High Commission. I don’t know how long we have to wait,” she said appealing to the authorities to speed up the process.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/now-australian-high-commission-mulls-charter-flight-option-for-stranded-citizens/articleshow/75073388.cms||Sudipta Sengupta
April 10, 2020||Thiruvananthapuram||Universities may switch to home valuation of answer papers||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM: Universities in state may soon opt for home valuation of answer papers as the government is planning to recommend the same as an interim arrangement to circumvent the stalemate in evaluation process due to the lockdown. Higher education minister K T Jaleel said on Thursday that government would ask universities to explore the possibility of switching from centralized valuation to home valuation of answer papers as an interim arrangement so that the load of universities and teaching faculty can be reduced once colleges reopen and postponed exams are held. "This would be the only feasible step they can take to quicken the examination process during lockdown. Centralized evaluation is not feasible during this emergency and we don’t know when things will be normal again. Instead of waiting for the crisis to end, let universities bring answer booklets, following safety standards, to the residence of teachers for evaluation," he said. Wednesday’s cabinet decision to explore available options for conducting exams and evaluation of answer booklets, especially university examinations, using online facilities is unlikely to yield substantial result. "For most universities, it would be impossible to switch over to online mode at short notice. It needs elaborate arrangements, infra and change in course design to embrace online mechanism. Perhaps, a few institutions like Cusat may be able to do so for the evaluation of a limited number of courses at short notice," said top sources in higher education department. Even APJ Abdul Kalam Technological University may not be able to conduct exams or get answer booklets evaluated online with short notice. However, it may switch to digital evaluation of answer booklets in a year, said sources close to the developments. KTU had earlier attempted the use of digital options for valuation, but had to give up the same following protests and criticisms. Kerala University VC VP Mahadevan Pillai said university will think about what it can do to speed up the evaluation of answer papers and conduct exams online. "It’s a difficult task to switch over to online mode at short notice. We will try our best to explore the possibilities, as recommended by the government," he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/thiruvananthapuram/universities-may-switch-to-home-valuation-of-answer-papers/articleshow/75072469.cms||B S Anilkumar
April 10, 2020||Kolkata||West Bengal: Data analysis cell to help locate Covid-19 hotspots||KOLKATA: The state has formed a nine-member data analysis cell to collect data to help pick out hotspots for Covid-19 infection. Once such hotspots are identified, the cell will advise the government on the likely areas that would require random testing. “Expanding data gathering and analysis is going to be helpful in testing and more meaningful isolation. We have to make at attempt at identifying the silent carriers,” said cardiac surgeon Kunal Sarkar of Medica Superspecialty Hospital. The cell will collect data from multiple sources, including districts, on a real-time basis. It will then detect patterns and undercurrents, in addition to determining the hotspots of the infection. “The data will identify the high-density zones and help the administration in decide which areas need complete lockdown. This will also help increase the number of tests and detect where they are most needed,” said surgical oncologist Diptendra Sarkar of SSKM Hospital. The government has already launched an app for Asha workers, named Sandhane, to get data on fever and cough from the grassroots. Asha workers will collect this information during household surveys. “The data will directly come to the Nabanna server,” said state chief secretary Rajeeva Sinha. Meanwhile, Liver Foundation West Bengal and Raxa have developed a self-reporting app, called Covid-19 Containment Pathway, through which people can report if they have symptoms or travel history. The information will go directly to the server at Swasthya Bhawan where officials will identify people at risk at take up measures accordingly. Launched three days ago, close to 200 individuals have already reported through this app.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/data-analysis-cell-to-help-locate-covid-hotspots/articleshow/75074005.cms||Sumati Yengkhom
April 10, 2020||Goa||Teachers upset over being packed in room for training||Panaji: Hundreds of teachers across the state were left enraged on Thursday after they found themselves crowded into a room for the Covid-19 door-to-door survey training. To add to it all safety norms were flouted, said several teachers, including one who was called from maternity leave. Social distancing was not observed, teacher said, adding that they were also not provided with sanitisers, masks or transportation to carry out the survey. A teacher who was allotted a slum area to conduct the survey said that she felt unsafe. “When we asked about being provided sanitisers and masks during the survey, we were told by the officers present that they are not aware about its distribution,” president of the All Goa Secondary School Teachers’ Association Dattatraya Naik said. Teachers were also upset about the random allotment of work.“Teachers have been posted randomly for the survey, when they could have been easily allotted their neighbourhood areas. In my case, both me and my wife are teachers. Pleas to release one of us from the duty have gone unheard. We have two young kids, with whom can we leave them,” Naik said, adding that one teacher from Mapusa has been allotted duty in Margao. “We were all put inside the crowded room. There was no social distancing. We did not know the travel history of the person next to us, or how many people had been in the hall before us or if the hall had been sanitised,” Naik said. Another teacher said that they have been organised into groups of four to conduct the survey and are not being provided transportation. In these conditions, they will be forced to travel in one car without knowing if the others in their team have been exposed to the infection. “The training itself was a mockery. We have been provided with a questionnaire and we were told how to fill it. We have been told that if a citizen even coughs or sneezes slightly or is seen to have a cold or running nose then we should tick on the questionnaire that the citizen has symptoms of Covid-19. This sounds so illogical,” the teacher said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/teachers-upset-over-being-packed-in-room-for-training/articleshow/75074061.cms||Gauree Malkarnekar
April 10, 2020||Visakhapatnam||North Andhra Pradesh may face vegetable scarcity due to lack of labour||VISAKHAPATNAM: With farmers unable to initiate the process of cultivating seeds of various crops due to lack of labour, the state may soon face a scarcity of vegetables. Usually farmers start the process in April, but many of them could not employ labourers due to the lockdown. Even fertilisers are inaccessible. Vegetables farming in the north AP districts of Srikakulam, Vizianagaram, and Visakhapatnam is taken up on 13,000 to 14,000 hectares of land in Rabi season and around 3,000 hectares in the summer season. Crops grown during the summer are gourds, including bitter gourd, snake gourd and ridge gourd, as well as brinjal and leafy vegetables. Speaking to TOI, Visakhapatnam joint collector Loteti Siva Sankar said that he will enquire about the summer crop situation and measures to be taken by the district administration. “We are busy with supplies of vegetables and other essential commodities right now. Medical services and other aspects are primary focus. But this also a priority issue and we will definitely address it,” he said. “We are trying to convince labourers through the village-level administration. Farmers are preparing for summer crops wherever borewells and sufficient water is there,” Sailaja, assistant director of the Vizag horticulture department, said. Y Raghavendra Rao, a farmer, said that seeds will be ready by April-end for summer crops and plantation will take place in May. The yield will come by June-end or July.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/visakhapatnam/north-andhra-may-face-veggie-scarcity-due-to-lack-of-labour/articleshow/75074059.cms||Siva G
April 10, 2020||Hyderabad||IIT-H provides sanitisers to Sangareddy dist admin||Hyderabad: To help the local community fight the spread of novel coronavirus, the Indian Institute of Technology, Hyderabad (IIT-H) is providing nearly 100 litres of hand sanitisers per day to the Sangareddy district administration since April 4. According to a press release, the hand sanitisers, developed by a research group led by Jyotsnendu Giri, associate professor, department of biomedical engineering, IIT-H, are being handed over to the Sangareddy collectorate, which facilitates dissemination of the product. It was also being shared with the IIT-H community since March. The research group has developed the composition on par with the standards recommended by World Health Organization (WHO) and the US Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC). “To combat coronavirus, the institute initially prepared hand sanitisers for internal usage. In view of its scarcity, the institute is now preparing and delivering about 100 litres of hand sanitizer every day,” said Prof BS Murthy, director, IIT-H. Laboratory technical staff staying inside campus are involved in the manufacturing process of the hand sanitizer every day.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/iit-h-provides-sanitisers-to-sangareddy-dist-admin/articleshow/75073395.cms||---
April 10, 2020||Mangaluru||Saptapadhi scheme deferred to May 24||Mangaluru/Mysuru: The Hindu religious institutions and charitable endowments department has put the Saptapadhi, simple mass marriage scheme, the first phase of which was to be held on April 26, on hold. The department had thus far received more than 4,500 applications for the same, and 2,000-odd applicants had submitted supporting documents sought by the department, said muzrai minister Kota Shrinivas Poojari, here on Tuesday. Noting that implementation of the scheme has been deferred due to the Covid-19 pandemic, the minister, in an official communique, said the department had organised seminars to give publicity to salient features of the scheme in more than 10 districts of Karnataka. Saptapadhi rathas were also taken out in different districts to inform people about the scheme, he said, adding that the first stage of the scheme would have been implemented on April 26. The scheme, as things stand now, will be rolled out on May 24, the originally planned date for the second phase of the scheme, Poojari said. A decision to this effect was taken at a meeting held in the home office of chief minister B S Yediyurappa in Bengaluru on Tuesday, Poojari said, adding the department might revisit the day’s decision based on the situation in May. However, Chamundeshwari temple, Chamundi Hills, Mysuru, executive officer, Yathiraju, said that as of now there is no change in the Sapthapadi event date. “We are continuing with the preparations,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mangaluru/saptapadhi-scheme-deferred-to-may-24/articleshow/75071429.cms||---
April 10, 2020||Varanasi||BHU hospital prepared to treat corona patients||VARANASI: Sir Sunderlal Hospital of Banaras Hindu University (BHU), which has been declared Level-3 category for the treatment of Covid-19 patients, is fully prepared to meet the challenges of the coronavirus outbreak. The government has classified hospitals into three categories---Covid care centres to treat very mild, mild and suspect cases; Covid health centres for clinically moderate level serious patients and dedicated covid hospitals to provide comprehensive care to critical patients. The BHU VC Prof. Rakesh Bhatnagar inspected the existing facilities at the supersSpecialty block of the hospital and reviewed the preparedness. He was accompanied by rector Prof. VK Shukla, medical superintendent Prof. SK Mathur, Covid-19 nodal officer Prof. Jaya Chakravarty and others. BHU spokesperson, Rajesh Singh said, the super specialty block is fully equipped with a 40-bed ICU, and other emergency services. The hospital is also ready to take care of the Level-1 patients referred from the district hospital. Besides, 200 rooms for quarantine purpose have been arranged for the health professionals at New Nursing Hostel, LD guest house and at psychology department.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/varanasi/bhu-hosp-prepared-to-treat-corona-patients/articleshow/75071223.cms||---
April 10, 2020||Goa||Goa: Innovative booths to screen patients at Hospicio||MARGAO: The Hospicio hospital Margao, which has been on the frontiers of the state’s battle against Covid-19, has adopted improvised and innovative methods to shield its frontline medical staff against infection while reducing the use of PPE (personal protective equipment) kits. In a first of its kind initiative in the state, the Hospicio on Thursday launched a “patient examination booth” and state-of-the-art Powered Air Purifying Respirator (PAPR) aimed at enabling the doctors and health workers examine patients and take their swab samples in a protective manner. Significantly, the patient examination booth has been designed by a team of Hospicio’s medical staff in a cost-effective manner. “We are the first in Goa to have this box facility for examining patients. This has been modeled on the lines of South Korea’s patient testing booths. We have seen it put to use in Kerala, and that was how we got inspired to have it,” Hospicio’s medical superintendent and deputy director, health services, Dr Ira Almeida, told TOI. The examination booth is made of transparent acrylic sheets. A stethoscope protrudes through the booth which has two small circular openings provided with gloves for the doctor/health worker to use while examining a patient who is asked to stand in front of the booth exterior. “The box (booth) can be used for taking swab samples as well, but here we are using it to examine patients whom we need to examine from close quarters. This provides a certain comfort level for the doctor while examining a patient who is highly suspect,” Almeida explained. The examination booth will be placed in the Covid OPDs of the Hospicio.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/innovative-booths-to-screen-patients-at-hospicio/articleshow/75074068.cms||---
April 10, 2020||Varanasi||All bus passengers from Deoband, Moradabad traced||VARANASI: Police have succeeded in tracing all the passengers of the bus, which had brought students of Deoband and Moradabad to Varanasi, Jaunpur and Chandauli districts. All of them have also been screened, especially after one Tabhligi Jamaat attendee and two students, including one of Deoband seminary and the other from Moradabad, were tested Covid-19 positive in the last week After the ongoing search operation, two more TJ attendees were detected in Mau till Thursday. On Wednesday, a student who had returned from Deoband to Jaunpur was confirmed Covid-19 positive. Before him, a student from Islamic institution of Moradabad, who reached his home in Lohta area in Varanasi, and one TJ event attendee, who travelled in the same bus, had already been confirmed as Covid-19 positive. ADG Varanasi zone Brij Bhushan on Thursday said that following testing of three as Covid-19 positive , the search for all other students from Deoband and Moradabad, who had travelled in the bus after announcement of the lockdown on March 25 to return to their homes in Jaunpur, Varanasi and Chandauli had been intensified. It came to light during the exercise that the bus to bring the Deoband students back to their places was arranged by TJ event attendee. Apart from them, 34 people from Deoband and two from Moradabad had boarded the bus. Of the total 37 people who travelled in the bus, 22 alighted in Jaunpur, 12 in Varanasi while three went to Chandauli, he said adding, all of them have been searched and screened. Regarding progress in search operation launched to trace TJ event attendees the ADG said that till Wednesday night Mau police had traced 22 TJ attendees in the district while in the past 24 hours two more were searched after which the figure in this district reached to 24. Tthe total number of TJ attendees in the zone reached up to 218. Till Wednesday, the number of TJ attendees found in Varanasi zone was 216. The figures of the TJ event participants in Azamgarh (36),. Ghazipur, where 22 Jamaat attendees (including those 11 who had left for Delhi on March 29 after staying in the district), Varanasi (43), Jaunpur (45 including 14 Bangladeshsi, one Nepali and 10 from other states), Bhadohi 16 (including 11 Bangladeshi), Mirzapur (8) and Sonbehadra (17) remained unchanged.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/varanasi/all-bus-passengers-from-deoband-moradabad-traced/articleshow/75071234.cms||---
April 10, 2020||Goa||Exercise futile without medical staff: Surveyors||Panaji: With no nurses or paramedics on the team to physically check citizens and apart from the health risks involved, government employees have questioned the entire purpose of the massive door to door health survey. Training sessions for the government employees and teachers was held on Thursday where hand sanitisers and face masks were handed to some and promised to others. They were trained to operate an application on which the answers to the Covid-19 survey will be fed. They have also been instructed not to enter homes, speak only to the head of the family or one member to gather all the necessary data about the entire family, and maintain social distancing while doing so. The questions revolve around whether one has Covid like symptoms, has underlying medical conditions, travel history, etc.However, with people already hiding their travel history, government employees are confident people will not open up to them about their status merely because they show up at their doorstep. “What’s the use of the entire survey and what will the government get out of it?” asked one government employee. “First of all, we don’t know whether people will entertain us in such times. Then what’s the guarantee that they will share information with us which they have been concealing all this while. Many are afraid of being quarantined if they reveal what symptoms they have,” he said. Social distancing was not maintained during the training sessions conducted on Thursday where employees were seen sitting together, a government employee stated.  “If I’m supposed to ask only one member of the family about the entire family’s health by maintaining one meter distance, it won’t be useful at all. It would have been better if the government sent out the forms themselves and asked each one to fill them up, considering the risk involved,” another government employee told TOI. Margao local Rashid Sousa said the massive exercise could end up with the government employees and teachers contracting the virus and taking it door o door to citizens.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/exercise-futile-without-medical-staff-surveyors/articleshow/75074088.cms||Lisa Monteiro
April 10, 2020||Vadodara||Major sanitization drive and health survey begin in Tandalja||Vadodara: Vadodara Municipal Corporation (VMC) started a major exercise of sanitizing the streets and houses in Tandalja area after declaring it a red zone and containing it. A door-to-door health survey has also been started in the area.A part of Tandalja that included 1,831 houses and 6,992 population was put under mass quarantine after it came to light that a homeopath staying in Nagarwada who had tested positive for Covid-19 used to work at Muavin Hospital in Tandalja. It is believed that he may have examined some patients while working at the hospital.By Thursday evening, VMC health teams had visited 1,331 houses in the area and surveyed 5,597 people. So far, no suspected case of Covid-19 has come to light from the contained area in Tandalja.Senior IAS officer Vinod Rao, who has been deputed to Vadodara to handle the situation in the wake of Covid-19, said that the intention behind containing the area was not only to ensure that people did not move out and infect others, but also to ascertain that nobody was suffering from Covid-19. With extensive surveys and testing, any possible cases will be identified at the earliest.Rao said that residents of Tandalja were cooperating well. “We do not see any major vehicle movement in the area,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/major-sanitization-drive-and-health-survey-begin-in-tandalja/articleshow/75071214.cms||---
April 10, 2020||Bhopal||Former minister Hazarilal Raghuvanshi dies at 90||Bhopal: Congress veteran and former minister Hazarilal Raghuvanshi passed away at a city hospital on Thursday afternoon. He was 90 and is survived by his wife, five sons and two daughters. A matriculate, Raghuvanshi was six-time MLA from Seoni-Malwa constituency in Hoshangabad. He was a minister in successive Congress governments starting with the 1980 Arjun Singh regime in which he was minister of state to the Digvijaya Singh government in which he was a prominent cabinet minister. He also served as the deputy speaker on MP Assembly. Raghuvanshi was suffering from age-related ailments for a long time and was admitted in a hospital. His last rites will be held on the banks of the Narmada at Ambalighat in his Seoni-Malwa constituency on Friday. State Congress president and former chief minister Kamal Nath tweeted, “Received the news of sad demise of Hazarilal Raghuvanshi, senior Congress leader, former assembly deputy speaker, president of Madhya Pradesh Congress Disciplinary Committee. Work done by him in various positions in the interest of the state and society will not be forgotten. His demise will remain an irreparable loss. My condolences to the family. May his soul rest in peace and God give strength to the family to bear the loss." Former minister Hazarilal Raghuvanshi last contested assembly elections in 2018, but lost to BJP’s Premshankar Kanjilal Verma. When Congress was routed in the state in 2003, he was one of the six ministers out of 40 in the Digvijaya Singh government who was voted back to the state assembly. Raghuvanshi being one of the senior-most in the opposition was appointed deputy speaker and held the position till 2008 when he was defeated by BJP’s Sartaj Singh. Raghuvanshi started his political career after being elected the vice-president of a mandi committee in 1948. He was first elected MLA in 1977 and after re-election in the seventh state assembly in 1980, he became a minister of state with portfolios like home, jail, irrigation and panchayats. In the Digvijaya Singh governments of 1993 and 1998, he was cabinet minister for PWD, agriculture, revenue, rehabilitation and urban welfare. Hazarilal Raghuvanshi was known to be an ardent follower of Arjun Singh. But when Congress stalwarts Arjun Singh, Natwar Singh and ND Tiwari formed their own party in 1996, Raghuvanshi remained faithful to the Congress party and Digvijaya Singh. For this reason, he developed direct contact with the party high-command.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/former-minister-hazarilal-raghuvanshi-dies-at-90/articleshow/75073402.cms||---
April 10, 2020||Allahabad||Police zero in on five corona hotspots in Prayagraj range||PRAYAGRAJ: A day after four new novel coronavirus cases from Pratapgarh and Kaushambi took Prayagraj region’s tally to nine, police on Thursday identified five hotspots in the three districts which are most prone to the virus spread. Till now, six novel coronavirus positive cases have been reported in Pratapgarh, two in Kaushambi and one in Prayagraj district. IG (Prayagraj range) KP Singh said “The five hot spots are Abdullah mosque, Musafirkhana in Prayagraj’s Shahganj, Malaq Panchambha (Kada dham) village of Sirathu tehsil in Kaushambi and Jama Masjid campus and, Narsinghgarh and Sabalgarh Dirwa villages in Pratapgarh district.” “Police have enforced a complete lockdown in all four districts of Prayagraj range. Over 200 FIRs have been lodged against violators of lockdown norms in different police stations under section 188 of the IPC for the violation of section 144 of CrPc in the range ever since the lockdown was enforced,” he added. The districts comprising Prayagraj range are Pratapgarh, Prayagraj, Kaushambi and Fatehpur. Meanwhile, SSP (Prayagraj) Satyarth Anirudh Pankaj on Thursday said that, “The 11 Muslims traced by Phulpur police on Wednesday night in a house in Phulpur block had no link with the Tablighi Jamaat event.” He said that the group had returned to Prayagraj on March 4 from Delhi after attending a religious programme organised at Sahi Edgah Kasabpura on February 22-24. A team of health officials also conducted their medical examination and they have been quarantined at two different locations as a precaution.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/allahabad/police-zero-in-on-five-corona-hotspots-in-prayagraj-range/articleshow/75071285.cms||---
April 10, 2020||Mysuru||Wildlife board’s nod for Sharavathi project survey irks greens||Mysuru/Shivamogga: The National Board of Wildlife’s (NBWL) decision to give a nod to the geotechnical survey to take up the highly controversial Sharavathi pumped storage power plant project has shocked people in the Malnad region. Principal chief conservator of forests (PCCF), Punati Sridhar, confirmed that NBWL gave permission for the survey. “The state wildlife board had forwarded the proposal in this regard to NBWL,” he informed. Locals and green activists were shocked that NBWL, which is set up to protect wildlife, has accorded permission for the survey, as this project is opposed by activists, as they fear that it may lead to an ecological disaster. According to the documents accessed by TOI, the Karnataka Power Corporation Limited had sent a proposal to NBWL, seeking permission to carry out exploratory drilling to ascertain the geological conditions of the substrata which are essential for finalising the location and other details of the proposed Sharavathi pumped storage project. If this project is approved, a total of 877.5ha of forest inside wildlife sanctuaries in Shivamogga and Uttara Kannada will be destroyed. If protected and non-protected forest areas are clubbed, 1,023.5ha of forest land will be required for this project. “NBWL held a meeting on Tuesday, amid the lockdown. It was a virtual meeting chaired by Union environment minister Pakash Javadekar. During the meeting, the NBWL issued permission to KPCL to carry out the geotechnical survey,” said sources in the state forest department. “In other circumstances, locals would have raised their voice against this decision. There was no prior information given, that this issue will be taken up at the meeting. When the entire Malnad region of the state is fighting Covid-19 and KFD, this approval has been given,” said sources in the state government. As expected, environmental activists are upset with the NBWL for not helping the cause of the public, forests and the wildlife. “This entire forest region is unexplored. This region is the natural habitat of lion-tailed macaques which are facing extinction. Just 40-50 families of these animals now remain. The government should not give permission for this project,” said Akhilesh Chipli, an activist from Shivamogga. “We will explore all possibilities to stop this project. It has no rational. Only politicians and contractors need this project,” he alleged. Sahadev, an environmental activist from Koppa in Chikkamagaluru, said, “The people will raise their voice against this project. It will spell disaster for the Western Ghats if it gets implemented,” he said. Nod for bridge across Kootuhole River at MakuttaAccording to the state forest department authorities, the NBWL also issued permission to start work on a bridge across the Kootuhole River at Makutta, on the Kodagu-Kerala border. “Less than 1ha of forest land is required for this new bridge, which will serve as a key link between Karnataka and Kerala,” said authorities from the state forest department. According to sources, this bridge works were halted after objections were raised by the state forest department. The Kerala government has proposed a new bridge across the Kootuhole River at an estimated cost of Rs16 crore, which is part of the work to upgrade the Kannur to Kootuhole road. According to locals, the bridge is a long-pending demand of residents of Kerala and Karnataka. “We hope that this bridge gets completed soon,” said Shrihari, a Virajpet resident.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mysuru/wildlife-boards-nod-for-sharavathi-project-survey-irks-greens/articleshow/75072558.cms||---
April 10, 2020||Hyderabad||Telangana ropes in University of Hyderabad students for coronavirus work||HYDERABAD: Students pursuing public health at the University of Hyderabad (UoH) have been drafted by the state government to carry out epidemiological field work in various districts as part of its containment strategy against the spread of Covid-19. According to a press release issued by UoH, 15 students pursuing master of public health course have been issued orders by district authorities to participate in active and passive surveillance teams. In addition, four research scholars and another 30 students have submitted their credentials. TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/t-ropes-in-uoh-students-for-coronavirus-work/articleshow/75073414.cms||---
April 10, 2020||Kolkata||West Bengal: Taxi driver offers hospital as quarantine unit||KOLKATA: Taxi driver Md Saidul Laskar and his wife Shamima who set up a 55-bed hospital — ‘Marufa Memorial Hospital’ — at Punri village in Baruipur, South 24 Parganas, nearly 40 kilometres from Kolkata, have offered to the state government the two-storied building for a quarantine centre for Covid-19 patients. The hospital was built in memory of Saidul’s sister Marufa Khatoon. The BDO and five other officials surveyed the hospital and sent the proposal to the state health department for approval. “Recently when I went to the Block Development Officer to donate Rs 5,000 to the chief minister’s relief fund, I offered the hospital for Covid-19 patients. On Wednesday, they surveyed the facility and sent the proposal to the state health department,” Saidul said. “We have the basic facilities and around 15 staffers. They said that they would make all the necessary additional arrangements,” Saidul added. “The building is in good condition and the ambience is great. But we need to make some changes. The top floor is not ready yet. Once the approval comes, we shall start working on it so that it can be transformed into a quarantine centre as soon as possible. The second floor needs some work and we shall have to make temporary arrangements so that we can keep patients there,” a senior district administrative official said. This is not the first time that Saidul and his wife have come forward for a social cause. Saidul lost his only sister Marufa in 2004 because he couldn’t provide for her basic treatment as the nearest hospital was 25 kilometres away from his home. Since then, Saidul and his wife have been fighting against all odds to provide treatment to people of nearly 100 villages in and around Punri. Saidul sold his three taxis and his wife gave all her ornaments to buy the land in 2008. They saved every paisa to develop the hospital. The hospital houses an Outdoor Patient Department (OPD) where more than 300 patients are given free consultation and medicine daily. “We need to purchase a lot a medical equipment before we can start operating a full-fledged hospital. But that’s not my priority. Our state is going through a tremendous crisis and in this situation if we can help the government I shall consider myself fortunate,” Saidul said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/taxi-driver-offers-hosp-as-quarantine-unit/articleshow/75073412.cms||Saibal Gupta
April 10, 2020||Bhopal||This story is no longer available||This story is no longer available.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/this-story-is-no-longer-available/articleshow/75073418.cms||---
April 10, 2020||Allahabad||Allahabad: Flying kites lead to tripping, affect electricity supply||PRAYAGRAJ: As people take to flying kites to kill time during the lockdown in view of the Covid-19 outbreak, the power department is struggling with rising cases of manjha (kite string) leading to tripping and disruption of electricity supply. Nowadays, the sky is dotted with hundreds of kites since early evening. Most residents use the Chinese manjha for flying kites. Made of metallic wire, the Chinese manjha often causes tripping, especially in Old City where this sport finds a lot of takers. Unlike its Chinese variant, the traditional manjha is made by coating thread with powdered glass and glue. “The chinese manjha is a good conductor of electricity. When it falls over a power line, it causes the breakers installed at the sub-station to trip and leading to outage. Repetitive instances could cause massive damage to the sub-station and the wires,” said the executive engineer (Georgetown) Manoj Agarwal. “Moreover, a person might also be electrocuted if the manjha comes in contact with a transmission line,” he added. Meanwhile, police is worried about the large number of residents going out to buy kites, thereby flouting the lockdown rules. “This is not acceptable. Stepping out of their homes to buy kites or manjha will only land local residents in trouble. Till now, we have arrested 16 such offenders and are seeinng to it that shops selling these items remain closed,” said SP (city) Brijesh Kumar Srivastava. Police have also roped in popular local radio jockey Bhumika, who works for a private radio channel, to ensure that the point hits home. “I have been hosting a programme to urge peaople not to fly kites. I am doing my duty as a responsible citizen,” said Bhumika. The menace is also causing law and order problem for the police as more than often, kids and adolescents could be seen on the roads, fighting amongst themselves for catch hold of kites.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/allahabad/flying-kites-lead-to-tripping-affect-electricity-supply/articleshow/75071322.cms||---
April 10, 2020||Visakhapatnam||Andhra Pradesh: Business owners struggle to meet expenses, call govt for help||VISAKHAPATNAM: Owing to the nationwide lockdown, entrepreneurs are struggling to meet expenses with their businesses having come to a standstill. Even though offices, shops and factories are closed, business owners still have to pay rent, salaries, electricity bills, interest on loans and meet a host of other expenditures. Speaking to TOI, Shanti Prabhu, the owner of a unisex salon in Vizianagaram, said, “I have employed two hairstylists and two beauticians at my salon. They come from different parts of the country. Although I have agreed to pay their salaries and expenses this month, I have informed them that I’ll not be able to make the payments next month.” “However, they aren’t agreeing to this as they say that they are the sole breadwinners of their families,” Prabhu added. Prabhu further said, “I spoke to the owners of my shop and asked if they would consider not taking rent. But the shop owner flatly refused and asked me to deposit the rent. Even my livelihood depends on my business. If I cannot meet my own expenses, it’ll be impossible to feed my staff.” Another small business owner, K Prakash, who runs a gift store in Siripuram, said, “There are six people who work at the store. Since I will have to pay their salaries and meet other expenses, it is going to be very difficult to pay the high rents without any business.” Sudhir Mulagada, chairman of AP Chambers, said, “The AP Chambers envisages that there may be severe crisis and huge revenue and job losses across industries under the prevailing circumstances. Many units in Visakhapatnam Special Economic Zone (VSEZ) are facing financial stress at this juncture. Most units are either shut down or working at lower capacities.” Since these units are mostly dependent on exports and airlines are not operational and importing countries are also facing a crisis, they are unable to move manufactured goods from factory premises. Some clients have either cancelled orders or have postponed orders and procurement, Mulagada said. The AP Chambers has made a request to Union minister of commerce and industry Piyush Goyal asking that rent, water bills and other maintenance charges are waived from April to June.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/visakhapatnam/biz-owners-struggle-to-meet-expenses-call-govt-for-help/articleshow/75074078.cms||Reshma Jain
April 10, 2020||Hyderabad||Disinfection tunnel set up at Bowenpally market||Secunderabad: The Bowenpally Agriculture Market committee has come up with a ‘Disinfection Tunnel’ to keep safe hundreds of traders, farmers, hamalies (workers) and visitors to the market. On Thursday, the Disinfection Tunnel, a first of its kind in the entire state, was set up at the main entrance of the market to curb spread of Covid-19. “The Market committee has spent of Rs 3.30 lakh to set up of this tunnel. This is the first tunnel to be set up in the state,” TN Srinivas, chairman of the Bowenpally Agriculture Market Committee, told TOI. TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/disinfection-tunnel-set-up-at-bowenpally-market/articleshow/75073424.cms||---
April 10, 2020||Ahmedabad||Gujarat MSMEs will need major boost: KPMG||GANDHINAGAR: The micro, small and medium enterprises (MSMEs) of the state are likely to bear the brunt of the ongoing lockdown and the state government will have to make several provisions for this sector after the lockdown ends, says a report prepared by consulting firm KPMG.Gujarat-specific details of the report, “Potential Impact of Covid-19 on the Indian Economy” says, “Particular hindrance for MSMEs is that they usually work on thin margins, low cash reserves and less efficient manufacturing practices, leading to large requirements of skilled and semi-skilled labour. With the global lockdown induced by Covid-19, domestic MSMEs have felt disruption across 3 areas — demand, supply and finance.” KPMG senior consultant Sonal Vaghela, who has prepared the report on the impact on MSMEs due to the lockdown, said, “The exodus of migrant labourers in some parts has added to the uncertainty of availability of labour for at least a few months. To boost the MSME sector post lockdown Government may relax credit rating for next six months, so that MSME’s can get finances on lower interest rates.” The report says that MSMEs form the backbone of Gujarat’s economy. From 2015 till date, 4.4 lakh manufacturing MSMEs have come up in the state, generating a total employment of over 30 lakh.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/msmes-will-need-major-boost-kpmg/articleshow/75073421.cms||Kapil Dave
April 10, 2020||Goa||‘Ayurveda, allopathy used to treat patients’||Panaji: Chief minister Pramod Sawant on Thursday said Goa has become the first state in India to treat Covid-19 patients as well as those quarantined by integrating ayurveda and allopathy. He also said they have launched a mobile app ‘AyurGoaCovid-19’ in collaboration with the Union Ayush ministry. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/ayurveda-allopathy-used-to-treat-patients/articleshow/75074091.cms||---
April 10, 2020||Kolkata||Lockdown bhajans focus on harmony in crisis||KOLKATA: Setting an example of communal harmony, Ustad Rashid Khan has started composing bhajans during the lockdown. Along with son Armaan, he has also done a virtual concert of his bhajan composition. He said, “This is my way of putting out a message of secularism and brotherhood for our society that is facing threats of communal division and Islamophobia.” Khan said that music is his religion. “The world is reeling under a grave crisis and people are seeking refuge in spiritualism. Shunning communal hatred and Islamophobia is the need of the hour. Music is ibaadat (worship) for me. In times of uncertainty, singing bhajans gives me sukoon (peace),” he said. The lyrics of Khan’s bhajans have been penned by Narayan Jha Agarwal. He has already composed three bhajans – ‘Dheere dheere re mana’ (raag Mishra Charukeshi), ‘Yeh andhiyara mit jayega’ (raag Mishra Salagvarari Todi) and ‘Subah ho shaam tera naam japu’ (raag Mishra Gorak Kalyan). “My son joins me with his guitar when I perform,” he said Muslim musicians singing bhajans isn’t new in India. Md Rafi’s ‘Mana tarapat hari darshan ko aaj’ written by Shakeel Badayuni is unforgettable. Set on raag Malkauns, Naushad Ali had composed it for ‘Baiju Bawra’. “Rafisaab and Naushadji are my favourites. I was inspired by this bhajan. When people listen to it, they forget the religion of the singer, lyricist and the composer,” he said. Khan is expecting his bhajans to have a similar impact. “I wish they make listeners look inwards and imbibe a sense of calm. I hope this helps us tide over the situation,” he concluded.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/lockdown-bhajans-focus-on-harmony-in-crisis/articleshow/75073427.cms||Priyanka Dasgupta
April 10, 2020||Kanpur||Soon, sanitisation tunnels to come up at railway stations||PRAYAGRAJ: When the rail transport opens in the near future, don’t be surprised if you are asked to report to the railway station hours before your train’s arrival and are made to pass through a sanitisation tunnel before entering the premises of the railway station. Even as people across the country are anxiously waiting for restoration of the railways, the three divisions of the North Central Railways (NCR) have come out with their prototypes of what they call as ‘coronavirus sanitisation tunnel’. The three prototypes of the tunnel work on the spray principle wherein compressed chemical is automatically sprayed under high pressure through a small outlet on the passengers as they enter it, in order to disinfect them before they board the train. “The three variants of spray/mist-based sanitization tunnel prototypes have been developed by various workshops of NCR at coaching depot, Prayagraj, electric loco shed, Kanpur and electric loco shed, Jhansi. These prototypes a under trial and have to be evaluated on merits and demerits. The final design has to be cleared by authorised experts in the field,” said NCR chief public relation officer (CPRO) Ajeet Kumar Singh. Some of these prototypes will be handed over to the Railways Board which will discuss its function, pros and cons with the health ministry. “The sanitisation tunnels do not have any adverse effect on the human body. The technicalities such as length of the tunnel and number of people entering at a time, have to be looked into,” the CPRO added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kanpur/soon-sanitisation-tunnels-to-come-up-at-rly-stations/articleshow/75071358.cms||---
April 10, 2020||Ahmedabad||Adani Wilmar ties up with Swiggy to deliver edible oil, food products||Ahmedabad: FMCG major Adani Wilmar on Thursday announced its collaboration with online food aggregator, Swiggy, to deliver essential food items to customers. This will be implemented in Ahmedabad by the end of April. The decision came in the wake of the ongoing nationwide lockdown ordered to contain the spread of novel coronavirus. “Logistics and supply chains have been disrupted due to the ongoing lockdown. While the current lockdown is slated to end on April 14, there is no clarity when the situation will return to normal. Our tie-up with Swiggy is to ensure that our customers can access our whole range of products without stepping out of their homes and putting themselves in risk of Covid-19 infection,” said Angshu Mallick, deputy CEO, Adani Wilmar. In the first phase, the deliveries will begin next week in Lucknow and Kanpur and eventually 13 more cities will be added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/adani-wilmar-ties-up-with-swiggy-to-deliver-edible-oil-food-products/articleshow/75073435.cms||---
April 10, 2020||Hyderabad||Flipkart, Spencer’s join hands||Hyderabad: Flipkart on Thursday kicked off a hyperlocal essentials and groceries delivery pilot in Hyderabad through a tie-up with national retail chain Spencer’s Retail. Under the pilot, starting this month, consumers here will be able to order groceries and essentials from Spencer’s store on Flipkart app. The orders will be collected from chosen sample stores by Flipkart executives and delivered to customers.tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/flipkart-spencers-join-hands/articleshow/75073434.cms||---
April 10, 2020||Mumbai||Bombay high court relief in case of ‘cannabis on campus’||MUMBAI: In a relief to a first-year law student from a Vile Parle college, the Bombay high court on Thursday stayed her rustication for allegedly smoking cannabis on campus and also allowed her to take online internal assesment exams for now. In the first case heard via publicly accessible video-conference, Justice Gautam Patel heard the student’s petition challenging her rustication from Kirit Mehta School of Law College run by Narsee Monjee Institute of Management Studies. In it, she also urged to be allowed to appear for online exams which will get over on April 11. Her petition said the college’s action is arbitrary and disproportionate without giving any reason. She was rusticated on March 18 along with another student. Some 18 students were suspended, too, for allegedly consuming cannabis on campus. Her advocate Mohit Bharadwaj argued she was denied a hearing and falsely implicated based on third-party material. The college’s advocate, Manorama Mohanty, countered saying the college has relied on social media posts and specifically an Instagram post that allegedly showed the student smoking cannabis not only on college premises but actually in a classroom. She said due to the lockdown and closure of the college, she cannot provide an internal report and pictures relied upon for rustication. The judge questioned the authenticity of the material and wondered how the college came by the material in the first place. “There must be some degree of formality. You are dealing with rustication... Your processes have to be open and transparent,” remarked Justice Patel. In the order, Justice Patel noted that since the material pertaining to the social media posts and other documents cannot be accessed by the college and are placed before the court, a prima facie decision on merits is not possible. He granted the student ad interim relief by “staying the implementation and operation of the letter of rustication” and allowing her to appear for the internal exams. “Thus, it is imperative that some relief is granted as a rollback at a later stage would be impossible,” he said. He clarified this order will continue till normal working of court resumes and if later it is found that the student is not entitled to interim relief, she will have to accept those consequences.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/hc-relief-to-law-student-in-cannabis-on-campus-case/articleshow/75073433.cms||Rosy Sequeira
April 10, 2020||Hubballi||Hundreds of fake curfew passes seized||TNN Dharwad: Police on Thursday seized hundreds of fake curfew passes from traders at the wholesale vegetable market in APMC yard. To restrict the number of people in the market yard in the wake of lockdown, the district administration had issued passes to the authorised traders. However, it was found that the number of people entering the market far exceeded the actual number of passes issued and it was becoming difficult to maintain social distancing. Suspecting foul play, the suburban police on Thursday started checking the veracity of the passes and found that many had used the colour photocopies of the passes. Suburban police inspector Pramod Yaligar told TOI on Thursday that the police allowed only those who had passes issued by the district administration into the yard. The vendors who could not get passes from the district administration allegedly got the coloured photocopies of the passes, he added. The passes have been seized and no case if being filed, said an official.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hubballi/hundreds-of-fake-curfew-passes-seized/articleshow/75072605.cms||---
April 10, 2020||Kanpur||Youth quarantined at a Bara engineering college escapes||KANPUR: A youth, who was quarantined at a private engineering college in Bara area of Kanpur Dehat with suspected coronavirus symptoms, gave a slip to the authorities and disappeared from the college. When police inquired him about his residential address, the youth was said to be speaking Bangla. He was taken into custody from Ramnagar village on April 5. Later, he was quarantined at a private engineering college in Bara area. After finding the youth missing from the isolation ward on Wednesday, SDM Anand Kumar Singh and circle officer of Kanpur Dehat Sandeep Kumar were informed who launched a massive search to trace the youth. The quarantine centre officials however said that the sample of the youth was not taken. SDM Anand Kumar said that they have launched a search. He said they have also questioned a poultry farm owner in Ramnagar village from where the youth was detained on April 5. The SDM said that getting admitted to the quarantine centre would not only help the patient but also his family members and the society. Patients with symptoms of coronavirus should immediately alert the authorities and take their assistance, the SDM added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kanpur/youth-quarantined-at-a-bara-engineering-college-escapes/articleshow/75073864.cms||---
April 10, 2020||Goa||Picture misleading, social distancing maintained: CM Pramod Sawant||PANAJI: Reacting to a viral photograph that showed how no social distancing was maintained during the training programme for community survey, chief minister Pramod Sawant on Thursday said it was misleading. “One photo which went viral was taken when they came together. We conducted training maintaining social distancing,” he said. The government has commenced training for master trainers and incident commanders and Sawant said that, at a time, not more than 22 people attend. He also said that those on the verge of retirement, suffering from lifestyle diseases and with infants have been exempted from participating in the survey. Besides, in cases where both parents are teachers, only one is allowed to participate in the survey, Sawant said. Questioned on teachers being sent outside their respective talukas for training, Sawant refuted the charge and said that they will be allowed to carry out the survey in their taluka only. “We are conducting the community survey to educate and create awareness among people,” he said, adding that not only teachers, but booth-level officers, panchayat secretaries, lower division clerks and talathis have been engaged for the purpose. The survey, to be conducted across the state from April 13 to 15, will also identify people with Covid-19 symptoms.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/pic-misleading-social-distancing-maintained-cm/articleshow/75074092.cms||---
April 10, 2020||Ahmedabad||Edible oil makers seek stock limits’ exemption||Ahmedabad: To maintain supply chains, the Solvent Extractors Association of India (SEAI) has requested the Centre to advise state governments for exempting units manufacturing essential items such as edible oil, sugar and flour, and their depots, from stock limits.According to the vegetable oil industry association, the Union ministry of home affairs has issued an advisory to various state government to invoke the provision of Essential Commodities Act (ECA) for the purpose of imposition of stock limits on storage of various essential commodities. The vegetable oil industry has requested the government that edible oil manufacturers and other makers of essential goods, their clearing and forwarding agents (CFAs), depots and their storage locations be exempted from any stock limits imposed under the ECA by the respective states. Explaining its rationale behind seeking exemption, SEAI has said that edible oils produced by manufacturing units are kept at depots managed by the manufacturers or CFAs appointed by them. The CFA is not a wholesaler or distributor. “CFA should be considered as manufacturers’ depot only,” the trade body has stated in its memorandum submitted to the concerned central government departments. “However, the local authorities at the state level fail to categorize and differentiate CFAs and treat them at par with wholesale dealers or distributors,” said the association, which fears that stock limits meant for wholesale dealers and distributors are likely to be misapplied to manufacturer’s depot-operated CFA’s.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/edible-oil-makers-seek-stock-limits-exemption/articleshow/75073429.cms||---
April 10, 2020||India||‘False negatives’ queering the pitch in Covid fight||MUMBAI: A doctor who developed a dry cough and fever was relieved to test negative for Covid-19 at the BMC-run Kasturba Hospital recently. However, a couple of days later, he tested posi-tive at a private hospital he drove himself to, due to worsening of his symptoms. False negative reports are clearly emerging as an additional challenge amid a raging epidemic. A false negative result means a patient’s test results are “negative” even though he harbours the virus. Such patients get sent back from hospitals or, worse, they get a false sense of relief, drop their guard, and spread the infection at home and within the community. Studies from Wuhan, where the pandemic originated, found false negative reports could be as high as 30%. Experts listed a series of reasons — the nature of the virus, the incubation period of the infection, improper collection of samples, types of kits available in the market and so on. “There needs to be an adequate amount of viruses in the body for a test to detect it. This is called limit of detection by equipment,’’ said Dr Jayanti Shastri, head of the civic-run Kasturba Hospital’s Molecular Diagnostic Laboratory. Mumbai doctors have found another “mischievous” fact about the novel coronavirus—its presence in the patient’s body waxes and wanes every day, contributing to the false negative tests. “A patient may test negative today, but will test positive a few days later,” said Shastri, adding that is the reason BMC discharges a patient only after two consecutive tests taken 72 hours apart are negative. Moreover, there are several Covid testing kits available in the market. Each kit may have different sensitivity and show different r||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/false-negatives-queering-the-pitch-in-covid-fight/articleshow/75074608.cms||Sumitra Debroy
April 10, 2020||Bhubaneswar||Seizure of vehicles chokes police stations||Bhubaneswar: Seizure of hundreds of vehicles of lockdown violators every day has led to acute space crunch in police stations across the state. More than 10,000 vehicles, mostly two-wheelers, have been seized in different districts since the start of the lockdown on March 22. To decongest police stations, the Bhadrak administration has decided to release the cars and the bikes by imposing fine on violators. Bhadrak collector Gyana Das has issued an order under Section 59 (b) of the National Disaster Management Act 2005, asking violators to pay Rs 5,000 to secure the release of four-wheelers and Rs 2,000 for two-wheelers. The fine collected from lockdown offenders will be deposited in district Red Cross branch and used in Covid-19 management in the district. “We have so far seized 204 four-wheelers and 339 motorcycles. Daily seizures have created space shortage in police stations. Only a handful of violators have deposited fine and taken their vehicles,” Bhadrak SP Rajesh Pandit said. In Bhubaneswar, commissionerate police has started imposing Rs 500 as fine on violators on the spot instead of seizing vehicles. “Since our police stations do not have adequate space, we have asked the inspectors in charge (IICs) of stations not to register cases relating to vehicle seizure. It is better to penalise violators on the spot. Habitual offenders will be asked to pay more,” additional commissioner of police Anup Kumar Sahoo said. Police said once they registered cases related to vehicle seizure, it became difficult to release the vehicles immediately. In such cases, police have to keep the vehicles in the stations for several days and release them only after completion of legal procedures. In some districts, police have made alternative arrangements to park the seized vehicles. “Campuses of our police stations were congested following the seizure of many vehicles involved in road accidents and crimes. Recent seizure of vehicles in connection with lockdown violations only added to the space problem. We have identified vacant land to move the seized vehicles,” SP (Sambalpur) Kanwar Vishal Singh said. “More than 806 vehicles were seized and there is no space left in the thanas. Dear unruly bikers! Follow rules and don’t make us follow you. It’s better to collect bikes from thana when it still resembles a showroom! More seizure will turn it into a scrap dealer’s place,” tweeted the office of Keonjhar SP.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhubaneswar/seizure-of-vehicles-chokes-police-stations/articleshow/75071521.cms||Debabrata Mohapatra
April 10, 2020||Hyderabad||Eflu to conduct exams online||Hyderabad: The English and Foreign Languages University (Eflu) will hold end-semester exams scheduled for May online using open-book or take-home exam or term papers or assignment/projects. The decision was taken at the 12th academic council meeting on Thursday. “The council felt the sit-down mode of examination should be dropped as a measure to ensure social distancing,” a press release issued by Eflu said. TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/eflu-to-conduct-exams-online/articleshow/75073437.cms||---
April 10, 2020||Ahmedabad||Man who edited special branch letter arrested in Vadodara||Ahmedabad: Cybercrime sleuths on Thursday arrested one Rajesh Sarang, 53, of Manjalpur, Vadodara, for editing an internal letter of additional commissioner of police, special branch which mentioned all police stations to take care of one post which was doing rounds on social media saying, “On March 13, 2020 — Nizamuddin Markaz had gathered about 2,500 Muslim foreigners who were corona positive and sent them to different states in India to spread the disease as a terrorist attack. The post also mentioned that a particular community should not purchase vegetables and fruits from Muslim vendors. The post also said that corona positive Muslims spit on the roads in areas of a particular community to spread the disease as part of their terror activities”. Inspector V B Barad said Sarang edited the letter and made it look like an original one . “On Thursday, with the help of the IP log address of the device from which the post was made viral they arrested Sarang from his house in Vadodara. “He is civil engineer and runs a mobile repairing store in Vadodara,” Barad said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/man-who-edited-special-branch-letter-arrested-in-vadodara/articleshow/75073444.cms||---
April 10, 2020||Kolkata||Kolkata: MR Bangur Hospital receives 15 ventilators to fight Covid-19||KOLKATA: M R Bangur Hospital has received 15 ventilators to handle Covid-19 cases. Ten medical officers in the hospital are being trained to operate the equipment. The facility in Tollygunge is the district hospital for South 24-Parganas. It was recently designated as one of the four ‘state-level’ city hospitals for treatment of Covid-19. The state health department plans to equip M R Bangur with 1,100 beds for Covid-19 patients. A floor of the burns unit is being developed to handle critical patients. Sishir Naskar, superintendent of M R Bangur Hospital said that patients with Covid-19 may require a ventilator because they can develop severe respiratory distress, most commonly out of pneumonia. “One must be very careful while handling a ventilator or it may become counter-productive,” Ajoy Sarkar, clinical director, intensive care unit (ICU), Peerless Hospital, said, adding, “Of course, the new machines would boost the M R Bangur Hospital’s infrastructure. But it’s also important to know how to man them. If Bangur or any other government hospitals need guidance on using the ventilators or advice on Covid-19 cases, the private health sector is ready to help.” He agreed that at the centre of the Covid-19 crisis is the demand for ventilators. “Patients would need the support from these machines which are attached to them either via a tube inserted through the mouth, or to a mask that goes around the nose and mouth. The machine forces air into patients, providing oxygen. This allows the patient to relax and exhale,” said Arindam Biswas, consultant (general medicine), R N Tagore Hospital.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/mr-bangur-receives-15-ventilators-to-fight-ncov/articleshow/75073441.cms||Ajanta Chakraborty
April 10, 2020||Ahmedabad||Gujarat: Morning walkers beware, you may end up in lockup||AHMEDABAD/VADODARA: In times of lockdown, propagators of good health have been harping on the need to be active for physical and mental rejuvenation. The quintessential morning walk, however, ended up in a lockup for at least 60-odd people in Ahmedabad and Vadodara as cops booked them for violating prohibitory norms in place to arrest spread of Covid-19. In Ahmedabad, 23 people were booked for walking on the main roads and some in society campuses in Vastrapur police station alone. In Satellite, 10 walkers were booked. In Vadodara, police booked two dozen morning walkers from Sayajigunj, a walkers’ paradise in Banyan City, used primarily for walking or jogging. In Naranpura area, there was high drama when three men were picked up by cops as they were caught on drone camera taking a stroll in the common plot of their housing society. Cops said they were seen violating social distancing norms. Locals countered saying the purpose was defeated when they packed with dozens of people in police vehicle and lockup. “We follow rule of social distancing while walking in our society. However, cops picked us up from inside the society and later made us sit along with 20 other people which was real flouting of social distancing,” said Jayesh Patel, Naranpura resident. Inspector JR Patel of Naranpura police station said accused were captured on camera walking in close proximity. "The lockup is small in size where around 20 to 25 persons can be kept," said Patel. In Vadodara, Sayajigunj police said that many people were spotted merrily walking away on Kamatibaug road, near Narhari Circle and in Pratapgunj near Rosary School. All were rounded up and taken to Sayajigunj police station where offences of violation of public notification and committing an act that may endanger others’ lives by spreading infection of the dreaded virus. Those arrested include businessman, software engineer, realtor, restaurateur, sandwich shop owner, a professor and student of MS University, tailor, a homemaker among others. All these morning walkers are residents of Pratapgunj, Sayajigunj, Fatehgunj, Nizampura and Akota. Although most of these persons were walking individually with face masks on, police arrested them. “Lockdown means nobody can come out of their houses whether in groups or individually. Of course, if somebody is going out to buy medicines or essential items then it is a different case,” said inspector S G Solanki of Sayajigunj police station. While senior police officials have given green signal to people walking during lockdown, they advise it is better inside their homes, on terraces and society campuses while maintaining sufficient distance. With Coronavirus cases on rise, walking on the roads should be strictly avoided.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/morning-walkers-beware-you-may-end-up-in-lockup/articleshow/75071242.cms||---
April 10, 2020||Hyderabad||Firms take WFH in stride, new normal here to stay||Hyderabad: The times they are a changing. With Covid-19 ushering in a new normal, corporates that associated productivity with employee face-time in office are now waking up to the reality that ‘out of sight’ employees can be equally productive. Over a fortnight into the lockdown, many companies are veering around to the view that WFH could alter the work culture for good. “Like BC and AD, it’s now going to be pre-coronavirus and post-coronavirus era. Covid-19 is redefining the concept of flexibility and productivity with technology making many things possible,” said former Nasscom chairman and Cyient Ltd chairman BVR Mohan Reddy. A case in point is the BPO space where players like city-based Ozonetel have enabled call centre employees switch to WFH mode using cloud-based solutions. “We helped around 8,000 agents of clients, mainly in BFSI and e-commerce, shift to WFH. Now some of them want to ramp up this number,” said Ozonetel CTO Atul Sharma. An IT sector bigwig pointed out that though industry is still grappling with the forced changes, over 30% of IT workforce is expected to move to WFH as against the average of 5-10%. “This could result in a reduction in office footprint or a shift to flexi offices where there are no fixed workstations and employees troop in only once a week for meetings,” he explained. According to Hyderabad Software Enterprises Association (HYSEA) president Murali Bollu, some of the benefits will be seen in the recruitment space, wherein small and mid sized players will be open to hiring people from other cities without having offices in those locations. “Many small and mid-level companies will rethink their office space strategy. Monthly rentals along with facility management solutions are a major cost that can be reduced as more teams can be allowed WFH without compromising on productivity,” said Sudhir Naidu, CEO and founder of city-based business communications solutions provider Troop Messenger. Besides, he said that when companies are more open in offering flexible working hours and encourage WFH, it results in better employee retention, especially when it comes to women employees. ISB faculty Prof Deepa Mani said the lockdown impact will be different for different sectors. Many new areas like telemedicine as well as online education will become more amenable to WFH. Citing the example of Byju’s, which has started offering free online education, she said, “We are going to see new digital models which will alter consumer behaviour. Firms must, therefore, watch out for these new models.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/firms-take-wfh-in-stride-new-normal-here-to-stay/articleshow/75073443.cms||Swati Bharadwaj
April 10, 2020||Pune||In most Covid-19 deaths in Pune, poor health and late hospitalisation common link||PUNE: The surge in Covid-19 fatalities in Pune stands true to the knowledge that infectious diseases take their worst toll on the slums. Of the 25 people who died in Pune till Thursday because of acute respiratory distress linked to coronavirus, 20 had underlying health conditions. At least 17 people were from either the slums or the low income group from the congested areas of the city. Four of the five critically-ill patients who succumbed at different hospitals in Pune on Thursday had diabetes, hypertension, asthma and ulcerative colitis. “About 80% of those who died in Pune were senior citizens,” divisional commissioner Deepak Mhaisekar said. Health experts monitoring the Covid-19 outbreak in Pune said most patients reached the hospitals when their conditions had already worsened. Many who died came to the state-run Sassoon General Hospital in a critical condition. “They had symptoms for more than five to six days, but they had procrastinated despite having hypertension, diabetes and cardiovascular diseases,” the hospital's dean Ajay Chandanwale told TOI. Senior physician D B Kadam said the health seeking behaviour has remained consistent especially among the financially poor and less educated over the years. Be it swine flu or Covid-19, people tend to delay seeking medical care. It proves fatal in patients with pre-exisiting condition, he added. On Sunday, when the death toll went up to eight, Mhaiseker ordered containment zones for the slum areas in Yerawada and Bhavani Peth in Pune where there were two Covid-19 deaths. When 34 new cases were reported on Monday, the Pune Municipal Corporation sealed the entire core area in the Peths, and Kondhwa in the south of the city. Soon after, the Pimpri Chinchwad Municipal Corporation declared containments zones in four low income group areas. Pune’s collector Naval Kishore Ram said there would be minimal movement in these cordoned off areas and made masks compulsory for all citizens. Shops with essential goods are open for a mere two hours in these areas to ensure a complete stay at home. Both civic bodies have rolled out an elaborate contact tracing exercise in these congested areas. Health investigators who visit these areas said crowding and poor sanitation raise infections, malnutrition and co-morbidity hasten the disease’s onset and lack of awareness prevents patients from seeking early treatment. Health experts observing the spike in the death rate in Pune and in the state stressed on rigorous and random community testing. The government must ensure that no one is left out, they added. All cases with influenza-like illness, irrespective of travel history or contact with such persons must be put through the rapid antibody test followed by the PCR throat swab test to detect many more cases who can then be isolated to slow down the epidemic, co-convenor of Jan Swasthya Abhiyan Anant Phadke told TOI. “We have been insisting on more tests from the very beginning. We even wrote to the Centre about it,” he told TOI. On the mortality rate in the country, Phadke said it is about 3%, which was misleading because so far only people with foreign travel history or contact with such persons have been tested and deaths counted as Covid-19 cases. “There are a number of cases which have been missed in this testing and have not been counted as Covid-19 cases,” he added. Public health expert Raju Jotkar said testing had improved in the last two weeks in Maharashtra. “It should have been done from the very beginning,” he told TOI. The surge in positive cases in Pune was because of a four-fold increase in testing since March, Mhaisekar said. Community testing is an absolute must for the country, said Kerala-based health expert KP Aravindan. “This is best done by testing a large population for antibodies against the virus in stages to know the seroconversion rates. The tests can be a finger prick by a health worker and so can encompass a large number of people,” he said. Though difficult, the ICMR must push for testing many people after pooling samples and testing by PCR, he added. “This has to be followed by a series of tests in positive pools,” he added.  (With inputs from Vishwas Kothari)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/in-most-covid-19-deaths-poor-health-and-late-hospitalisation-common-link/articleshow/75074101.cms||Umesh Isalkar
April 10, 2020||Vadodara||Gujarat: Morning walkers beware, you may end up in lockup||AHMEDABAD/VADODARA: In times of lockdown, propagators of good health have been harping on the need to be active for physical and mental rejuvenation. The quintessential morning walk, however, ended up in a lockup for at least 60-odd people in Ahmedabad and Vadodara as cops booked them for violating prohibitory norms in place to arrest spread of Covid-19. In Ahmedabad, 23 people were booked for walking on the main roads and some in society campuses in Vastrapur police station alone. In Satellite, 10 walkers were booked. In Vadodara, police booked two dozen morning walkers from Sayajigunj, a walkers’ paradise in Banyan City, used primarily for walking or jogging. In Naranpura area, there was high drama when three men were picked up by cops as they were caught on drone camera taking a stroll in the common plot of their housing society. Cops said they were seen violating social distancing norms. Locals countered saying the purpose was defeated when they packed with dozens of people in police vehicle and lockup. “We follow rule of social distancing while walking in our society. However, cops picked us up from inside the society and later made us sit along with 20 other people which was real flouting of social distancing,” said Jayesh Patel, Naranpura resident. Inspector JR Patel of Naranpura police station said accused were captured on camera walking in close proximity. "The lockup is small in size where around 20 to 25 persons can be kept," said Patel. In Vadodara, Sayajigunj police said that many people were spotted merrily walking away on Kamatibaug road, near Narhari Circle and in Pratapgunj near Rosary School. All were rounded up and taken to Sayajigunj police station where offences of violation of public notification and committing an act that may endanger others’ lives by spreading infection of the dreaded virus. Those arrested include businessman, software engineer, realtor, restaurateur, sandwich shop owner, a professor and student of MS University, tailor, a homemaker among others. All these morning walkers are residents of Pratapgunj, Sayajigunj, Fatehgunj, Nizampura and Akota. Although most of these persons were walking individually with face masks on, police arrested them. “Lockdown means nobody can come out of their houses whether in groups or individually. Of course, if somebody is going out to buy medicines or essential items then it is a different case,” said inspector S G Solanki of Sayajigunj police station. While senior police officials have given green signal to people walking during lockdown, they advise it is better inside their homes, on terraces and society campuses while maintaining sufficient distance. With Coronavirus cases on rise, walking on the roads should be strictly avoided.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/morning-walkers-beware-you-may-end-up-in-lockup/articleshow/75075054.cms||---
April 10, 2020||Goa||Salcete man held for anti-CM post||MARGAO: Colva police on Thursday arrested Carmona-resident Sydney Luis, 32, as a preventive action for posting defamatory comments against chief minister Pramod Sawant on social media. He was arrested under Sec 151 of CrPC and later released on bail.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/salcete-man-held-for-anti-cm-post/articleshow/75074098.cms||---
April 10, 2020||Lucknow||Lucknow: Fogging drive fails to bite mosquitoes||LUCKNOW: Regular fogging drives being conducted by Lucknow Municipal Corporstion have failed to reduce mosquito menace. The civic body has received around 80 fogging related complaints in one week. According to LMC officials, they have deployed 25 fogging machine mounted vehicles in all eight zones. Besides, 60 persons, carrying fogging machines on bicycles, are covering narrow bylanes which cannot be accessed by mini-trucks. Each fogging machine mounted vehicle takes at least one round of every ward, spending 45minutes there. Above 26 degrees Celsius day temperature and 15 degree Celsius in the night are favourable for mosquitoes to breed. As per guidelines of a technical advisory committee, anti-larval spraying and fogging has to be started every year from January. But residents said it started late this year and that was perhaps the reason why it is not effective. LMC environment engineerPankaj Bhusan said, “We are trying to cover as many as areas as possible.” Sangeeta Saxena, a resident of Indiaranagar, said, “No fogging has been done in our area. When I contacted officers concerned they told me that fogging is conducted on Fridays. But even on Friday fogging was not done in my sector.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/fogging-drive-fails-to-bite-mosquitoes/articleshow/75074102.cms||Pranchal Srivastava
April 10, 2020||Bhubaneswar||Startups turn to Odisha government for help||BHUBANESWAR: In the wake of the coronavirus pandemic, startups and entrepreneurs from the state have collectively appealed to chief minister Naveen Patnaik for a one-time survival package. Around 595 entities, registered as startups, have urged the state government for a one-time help to take care of their expense like salary, rent, utility bills, as well as soft loans and credit guarantee. “It would be a boon for the startups of Odisha if the government can be the guarantor for soft loans or disburse collateral-free soft loans to interested startups in the state,” the letter read. It also mentioned that the soft loan could be between Rs 5 lakh to Rs 15 lakh which the entrepreneur will pay off within two to five years depending on the date of registration. In the letter, the entrepreneurs also mentioned that, “If the soft loan takes longer and is an issue, then we would appreciate if we could have a credit guarantee mechanism backed by the government of Odisha at any nationalised bank of choice with a special relief interest rate for at least three years.” The entrepreneurs have also urged the government to expedite the process of approving loans or bank guarantees and set up a single window to deal with issues related to startups. “At this time of extraordinary economic downturn, startups need your support, else all our collective efforts of the past few years will go in vain,” the letter stated.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhubaneswar/startups-turn-to-govt-for-help/articleshow/75071527.cms||Minati Singha
April 10, 2020||Nagpur||Mumbra man ‘missing’ in Malaysia; detained by immigration officials, says family||Nagpur: The Ghanchi family from Mumbra, a suburb in Thane district, is restless since over last two months as its bread earner, 53-year-old Shabbir, has gone ‘missing’ in Malaysia. Shabbir, who was working in Malaysia since 2014, had last contacted his family on January 29 this year. The family is desperately trying to find out Shabbir’s whereabouts without any luck so far. The Covid-19 outbreak has further increased worries for the family which now claims that Shabbir has been detained by Malaysian immigration officials. The family also claimed that a relative went to Malaysia twice to trace Shabbir and even approached the Malaysian police and Indian Embassy in Malaysia. According to the family, they are regularly writing to the Malaysian government and India External Affairs Ministry for help. It is learnt, Shabbir went to Malaysia through an agent in India. Shabbir’s wife Farana told TOI, “The agent promised Shabbir a job in Malaysia by arranging work permit and visa. We paid the agent Rs80,000. He sent my husband and one other person to Malaysia via Chennai.” According to Farana, the visa provided by the agent was only for one month and no work permit was given. “My husband had no choice but to live and work in Malaysia illegally as he was duped by the agent,” Farana said. Shabbir regularly used to send around Rs15,000 to his family in Mumbai. “On January 29, he promised to speak with me in the evening but there has been no contact with him since then. We tried calling him but he did not respond. So, I sent my brother Mohd Usman to Malaysia,” the wife said. Usman searched for Shabbir for six days but to no avail. He then approached the Malaysian police and Indian Embassy before returning to India. After a few days, Usman again went to Malaysia and learnt about the place where Shabbir used to live. He also filed a police complaint in the Dang Wangi police station in Kuala Lumpur. Usman later approached the house where Shabbir used to live. The landlord gave him Shabbir’s passport, mobile and his other belongings. “We learnt that several people had seen the Malaysian immigration officials picking up Shabbir. Usman also went to immigration camps but the authorities there did not cooperate with him. We just want to know if he is all right. Shabbir is diabetic and needs to take his medicine. We are ready to pay any fine, but just want him back or at least speak with him once to know if he is fine,” Farana said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/mumbra-man-missing-in-malaysia-detained-by-immigration-officials-says-family/articleshow/75080740.cms||Viraj Deshpande
April 10, 2020||Ahmedabad||14 quarantine areas, 1,258 supervisors||Ahmedabad: As 14 areas of the city have been cluster-quarantined by the AMC, the city police have roped in 1,258 volunteers to ensure none exit or enter these areas. Commissioner of police, Ashish Bhatia, said that these volunteers will make people aware that they have quarantined for their own benefit, and will also assist the police bandobust. “Apart from this, the areas are being monitored from the sky by 25 drones for any breach of quarantine,” he added. In connection with the Nizamuddin Markaz incident he said that 11 Tablighi Jamaat members have been identified by city police and have been sent for medical examination. Giving figures, Bhatia said that since the lockdown began 1,829 offences have been registered with regard to violation of different norms of the lockdown and 5,399 persons have been arrested. “1,744 cases have been registered for violation of notification, and till date 5,243 persons have been arrested. On Wednesday, 245 cases were registered in the city, and 618 persons were held. Under sections 269, 270 , 271 IPC and Epidemic Diseases Act, a total of 80 cases were registered and 139 persons were apprehended,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/14-quarantine-areas-1258-supervisors/articleshow/75073459.cms||---
April 10, 2020||Ahmedabad||Surge in asymptomatic patients shakes Ahmedabad municipal corporation||AHMEDABAD: A major task lies ahead for the municipal corporation in Ahmedabad, now that 30 of the 49 who tested Covid-19 positive from the same cluster-quarantined locality — Shafi Manzil and Shahrukh Apartments in Danilimda — turned out to be asymptomatic. That is, they did not show any of the expected Covid-19 viral symptoms and looked normal. Significantly, all the 30-odd people had come in contact with a Covid-19 positive patient who had shown typical symptoms. Tests for next 1,000 samples are awaited from these cluster-quarantined place. The AMC health authorities in the next three days plan to unleash a major intensive search across the city for more such cases — especially in areas where they had come across even a single Covid-19 case. The patient’s contacts and a few immediate people living in the vicinity across all zones of the city will be tested. This will be followed by a third stage, where the AMC will begin random intensive surveillance and testing in slum clusters for acute respiratory disorders or influenza-like illnesses, and perform Covid-19 tests. There are close to 691 major slums and chawl clusters which is home to 16% of Ahmedabad’s population. In the case of the Danilimda cluster, 30 positive cases are from Shafi Manzil and neighbouring Sharhukh Apartments in the vicinity and all had come in contact with one Covid-19 positive patient, Abdul Qayum. He stayed in Shafi Manzil too. Most of the cases live in adjoining floors of buildings all along a street. “The viral spread was among those who were connected with the person,” said a civic official. Sources add that close to 570 tests were conducted in Danilimda area alone. “In the coming days we may scale up the Covid-19 testing from 500 to 1,000 a day. There will be repeat surveillance and Covid-19 testing for the same areas as well. Over the last two days we focussed exclusively on quarantined clusters of the city where we tested every individual from where we found two or more cases. In the next three days we plan to extend search to other areas of the city,” said municipal commissioner Vijay Nehra. Another Covid-19 positive case from Behrampura was confirmed on Thursday who had links with the Nizamuddin Markaz in Delhi. At least 11 people have been sent for institutional quarantine to Nikol and will be under observation. Of the 50 who tested positive, 6 belonged to Jamalpur, , 7 belonged to Dariapur, and one each were from Astodia, Gomtipur, Ambawadi, Thaltej, Maninagar, Shahpur, Ghodasar, and Jodhpur.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/surge-in-asymptomatic-patients-shakes-amc/articleshow/75074122.cms||Paul John
April 10, 2020||Jaipur||Trapped between hunger & virus: Plight of ‘dhobis’||JAIPUR: A nicely pressed, non-wrinkled trouser always gives you a sharp, put together look. And the credit goes to the ‘iron men’. Rajesh Verma of Bapu Nagar is one of them. The non-descript person has a unique knack to iron any kind of dress material irrespective of fabric to make his customers satisfied. And he makes it a habit to lift the iron, moves up a bit and does it again on the same spot like an experienced conductor of the Philharmonic Orchestra. From morning till the evening, he used to iron hundreds of clothes. But things took a turn for worse since the countrywide lockdown was implemented from March 24. He said the situation is much worrying than demonetisation, which only delayed payments and did not damage the business. Like him, there a few more others who eke out a living by depending solely on the business are in distress now. “Yes, we are aware that all the offices are shut in the midst of crisis. And we also know that there would be less workload. The lockdown imposes a bigger burden on social security system and we are the worst sufferers. The situation is aggravating with each passing day and it will be annoying if the government doesn’t step in,” said Rajesh with moist eyes. The 21-day lockdown by Prime Minister Narendra Modi to contain the spread of Covid-19 has him worried. “I don’t have enough money to support my family for a long period. I will have to look for an alternative, or borrow money from friends. When every state government is making efforts to provide food to homeless and underprivileged people, why not us, who depend on daily wages? Taking a dig at the government policy, he said, “When the food vendors are not barred from operating, then why we have to shut down our operations? Some of the vendors operate without passes. But we have to follow all restrictions. When the government is taking all measures to help entrepreneurs affected by the crisis, why do they turn a blind eye to us? If virus won’t kill us, hunger will.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/trapped-between-hunger-virus-plight-of-dhobis/articleshow/75074104.cms||---
April 10, 2020||Delhi||Delhi: OPDs shut, psychiatry patients in lurch||NEW DELHI: Before India went into lockdown on March 24, Institute of Human Behaviour and Allied Sciences (IHBAS) in east Delhi, one of the largest psychiatric hospitals in the country, received 1,200-1,300 patients in its OPD daily. The number has now fallen to zero. Fewer consultation for psychiatric illnesses and admissions are happening at AIIMS and Ram Manohar Lohia (RML) hospital too. Though the facility of telemedicine is available, there has been a lukewarm response to it. Dr Nimesh Desai, director of IHBAS, told TOI that if a mechanism wasn’t developed to facilitate continuity of treatment for people with psychiatric illnesses, it could lead to humanitarian crisis. “Stress and uncertainty, which is ubiquitous due to the Covid-19 crisis, affects psychiatric patients the most. Without treatment, their condition may worsen,” he added. In India, the most common psychiatric illnesses are anxiety, panic attack, depression, obsessive compulsive disorder, bipolar disorder and schizophrenia. People suffering from these diseases require continuous medication and follow-up. If that isn’t available, the illness exacerbates. “My son suffers from schizophrenia. He is not willing to take medicines and I cannot take him to hospital due to the lockdown. He has been breaking everything in the house,” said the mother of a 42-year-old patient. They shared the video of the patient with AIIMS doctors for guidance to help him through tele and video consultation. But not everyone is tech savvy. Desai said OPD services continued at IHBAS even after the lockdown, until Dilshad Garden, which is close to the hospital, was declared a Covid-19 hotspot. “We had to shut down the OPD. However, we started a helpline for clinical support to patients over the phone. It hasn’t received a good response. We are getting only about 40-50 calls daily, which is 3-4% of the footfall in the OPD,” he added. One of the major problems with psychiatric treatment over the phone is prescribing medicines. Often, chemists insist on a physical copy of the prescription as drugs such as Alprax, which is used to reduce anxiety, can be misused. “My father needs sleeping pills regularly. The doctor, however, writes only SOS in the prescription. I’m worried since I can’t go to a shop and my doctor is not approachable on WhatsApp,” said Kaustubh Mathur, who lives in Ghaziabad. His mother, who suffers from psychotic symptoms, also needs Schedule-H drugs. “The medicines are not readily available and many chemists don’t give them despite showing the prescription,” he complained. Dr Nand Kumar, professor of psychiatry at AIIMS, said the problems faced by psychiatric patients is a grave one and, if a system is not developed for emergency care and tele-consultation, a crisis situation could occur. “Urgent help is needed for patients who suffer from relapse of psychiatric illness or have suicidal tendency. Non-availability can lead to serious problems not just for the patient, but the entire family,” added the doctor. “Usually, patients are advised physical activity and interaction with people to reduce anxiety, OCD and other problems. But the lockdown is adding to the problems,” said Kumar. Dr Smita Deshpande of RML said families and societies should come forward to help such patients and their caregivers in this time of crisis.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/opds-shut-psychiatry-patients-in-lurch/articleshow/75074108.cms||Durgesh Nandan Jha
April 10, 2020||Hyderabad||Firms take WFH in stride, new normal here to stay||HYDERABAD: The times they are a changing. With Covid-19 ushering in a new normal, corporates that associated productivity with employee face-time in office are now waking up to the reality that ‘out of sight’ employees can be equally productive. Over a fortnight into the lockdown, many companies are veering around to the view that WFH could alter the work culture for good. “Like BC and AD, it’s now going to be pre-coronavirus and post-coronavirus era. Covid-19 is redefining the concept of flexibility and productivity with technology making many things possible,” said former Nasscom chairman and Cyient Ltd chairman BVR Mohan Reddy. A case in point is the BPO space where players like city-based Ozonetel have enabled call centre employees switch to WFH mode using cloud-based solutions. “We helped around 8,000 agents of clients, mainly in BFSI and e-commerce, shift to WFH. Now some of them want to ramp up this number,” said Ozonetel CTO Atul Sharma. An IT sector bigwig pointed out that though industry is still grappling with the forced changes, over 30% of IT workforce is expected to move to WFH as against the average of 5-10%. “This could result in a reduction in office footprint or a shift to flexi offices where there are no fixed workstations and employees troop in only once a week for meetings,” he explained. According to Hyderabad Software Enterprises Association (HYSEA) president Murali Bollu, some of the benefits will be seen in the recruitment space, wherein small and mid sized players will be open to hiring people from other cities without having offices in those locations. “Many small and mid-level companies will rethink their office space strategy. Monthly rentals along with facility management solutions are a major cost that can be reduced as more teams can be allowed WFH without compromising on productivity,” said Sudhir Naidu, CEO and founder of city-based business communications solutions provider Troop Messenger. Besides, he said that when companies are more open in offering flexible working hours and encourage WFH, it results in better employee retention, especially when it comes to women employees. ISB faculty Prof Deepa Mani said the lockdown impact will be different for different sectors. Many new areas like telemedicine as well as online education will become more amenable to WFH. Citing the example of Byju’s, which has started offering free online education, she said, “We are going to see new digital models which will alter consumer behaviour. Firms must, therefore, watch out for these new models.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/firms-take-wfh-in-stride-new-normal-here-to-stay/articleshow/75073463.cms||Swati Bharadwaj
April 10, 2020||Hyderabad||Good Friday: Services to be live-streamed||Hyderabad: For the first time, the twin cities will observe Good Friday without participation of parishioners in church prayers and other services due to the lockdown. Many churches across the city have asked their members to stay home and take part in the services through online live streaming. The churches have made arrangements to live-stream the entire service so that people do not miss out on observing Good Friday. “Never in the living memory of my life have I seen churches with no parishioners or no masses on Good Friday. It is a strange feeling and it is being echoed by churchgoers across the twin cities. But since social distancing is of utmost priority in these difficult times, we have shifted most of our services online,” said John Mathew, a resident of Sainikpuri. Similarly, another churchgoer Samuel said, “This year, we are all going to respect the lockdown norms and participate in the mass online.” Meanwhile, churches are reaching out to their members by broadcasting the services through their own YouTube channels and live streaming on social media applications.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/good-friday-services-to-be-live-streamed/articleshow/75073466.cms||---
April 10, 2020||Bhubaneswar||‘Nothing can stop docs from treating patients’||On Monday, the SOA deemed to be university unveiled its 525-bed Covid-19 hospital. Noted neurosurgeon and SOA vice-chancellor Ashok Mohapatra tells Hemanta Pradhan where the state stands in the fight against the virus and more. Excerpts: Health professionals are the frontline warriors in the fight against coronavirus. Do you think they are concerned about the situation? Health professionals face high risk while treating infected patients. They are more vulnerable to catching the virus. Personal protective equipment (PPE) given to these professionals are not of high quality. But that will not stop them from treating patients. Several health workers, including doctors, have been infected by coronavirus across the world. But we should not be afraid of the situation. Health workers across the world should be provided with proper PPE and training to take care of patients without catching the infection. Health professionals should not neglect the medical guidelines and take necessary precautions before treating Covid-19 patients. Training is very important for these professionals. We are conducting mock drills for the healthcare professionals so that they know about important things before entering the Covid hospital. There are less doctors here in India compared to developed nations. Hence, we are also providing training to MBBS students so that they can be engaged if the situation demands. Who all are there to handle patients? My principal work is to motivate and sensitize my team and look after the administration along with planning and providing logistics. We have a medical superintendent, nursing head and biomedical head, hospital manager and heads of waste management and other ancillary works. We have deployed doctors from over 12 different departments including medicine, pulmonary medicine, paediatrics, anaesthesia and surgery. Besides, we have also included psychiatrists because people get scared of this disease during isolation. Patients need motivation during this difficult time. How well is Odisha equipped to handle the Covid-19 situation? Odisha has taken several positive steps compared to other states before any Covid-19 case was detected in the state. After analysing everything, I can say that we have prepared better than other states. It is difficult to say how many cases will be detected in the state, but we are in a better position now on the basis of precautions taken. What should an individual do to keep the infection at bay? The first and foremost thing is to maintain social distancing and physical distancing. Social distancing means we should avoid social gathering, while physical distancing says people should maintain at least one-metre distance from another human being. Wash your hands frequently. If you are outside for any essential work, use alcohol-based sanitizer to keep your hands clean. People should use mask when they go out. Try to visit shops with less crowd or visit the shops a little late to avoid gathering. EoM||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhubaneswar/nothing-can-stop-docs-from-treating-patients/articleshow/75071544.cms||---
April 10, 2020||Madurai||33 contacts of Covid-19 cases test positive, take south TN count to 225||Madurai: Thirty-three close contacts of Covid-19 patients tested positive on Thursday, taking the total positive cases in the southern region to 225. Sixteen of these cases are in Tirunelveli taking the total to 56 in the district. All of them are close contacts of patients from Melapalayam who returned from Delhi, with the total positive cases in the locality touching 44.Tirunelveli collector Shilpa Prabhakar Satish said they have got the results of the kin of 28 people who tested positive after returning from Delhi. “Families of 21 persons tested negative. The 16 new cases are kin of seven persons. We will identify primary and secondary contacts of these persons and send it for testing,” she said. Samples are yet to be collected from the secondary contacts of the first set of positive people. Meanwhile, eight fresh cases have taken the total positive cases in Kanyakumari district to 14. “All of them are relatives of already positive persons who travelled from Delhi,” district collector Prashant M Wadnere said. Two of them are four-year-old and seven-year-old children of two positive people. Four of the five new positive cases in Tuticorin district are close contacts of a family of three – including a lab technician in a private hospital – in the city who tested positive on Tuesday. “Three are from a family of tenants living in the first floor of the family that had tested positive. The fourth is a colleague of the woman,” district collector Sandeep Nanduri said. Efforts are on to map the close contacts of these two hospital staff. The hospital is closed from Wednesday to facilitate disinfection. Meanwhile Kayalpattinam government hospital that is closed for five days – after a doctor there who attended the Delhi conference tested positive – will be inspected on Friday and may be reopened on Saturday. Number of positive cases from the family of a 49-year-old man from Ayyanaroothu near Kayathar, Tuticorin district, that resisted isolation climbed to five. His father, mother, son and daughter tested positive.With one case, the positive cases in Madurai touched 25. The 18-year-old is the son of a positive man from Mohamadiyapuram in Melur who tested positive after travelling to Delhi. Two women, one each from Theni and Sivaganga, also tested positive. The positive case from Sivaganga is a 12-year-old girl from Thirupathur. Her father was among five from the district who returned from Delhi and tested positive on April 5. 47 people from Sivaganga had attended the conference in New Delhi. Five tested positive and were admitted to the isolation ward in the Sivaganga government hospital. Forty two others had been quarantined in the hospital and were being monitored. A 60-year-old man from Kariselpatti in Singampunari, who tested negative, died in the hospital on Thursday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/33-contacts-of-covid-19-cases-test-positive-take-south-tn-count-to-225/articleshow/75074109.cms||---
April 10, 2020||Ahmedabad||Govt asks supply staff to join work||Gandhinagar: The state government on Thursday said that employees and workers of industries and establishments dealing in essential goods and services are not exempted from reporting to work. In such cases, it has permitted employers to act against employees and workers refusing to do so. The direction has come in the wake of complaints that some workers in industries and establishments dealing in essential goods and services are refusing to report to work citing lockdown. Vipul Mittra, additional chief secretary, labour and employment department, said the government has received complaints that a few workers and employees of exempted industries not reporting for work. He added that industries like pharma and food items have been exempted from the lockdown to ensure that there is no scarcity of essential items in lockdown. “Staff of such industries and establishments are required to report for work. Employers are within rights to deduct wages in case they do not do so. They can also initiate other disciplinary action against erring staffers,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/govt-asks-supply-staff-to-join-work/articleshow/75073475.cms||---
April 10, 2020||Bhubaneswar||State hikes contingency fund to meet expenditure||Bhubaneswar: The state cabinet headed by chief minister Naveen Patnaik on Thursday approved promulgation of an ordinance to increase the corpus of the Odisha Contingency Fund (OCF) from Rs 400 crore to Rs 2,000 crore to meet the need of funds to handle Covid-19. Official sources in the finance department said governor Ganeshi Lal had approved the ordinance. Since the state budget had not made provision for Covid-19-related expenditures, the ordinance will enable the government to spend money from the OCF. The amount will be approved in the next supplementary budget. “The state government needs a huge amount of money to manage the pandemic. There could be many unforeseen expenditures in future, for which there has been no specific budgetary provision. The ordinance will empower the government to take an advance from the OCF,” said a finance department official, requesting anonymity. The state government is now spending from state disaster response fund, funds of individual departments, the chief minister’s relief fund and the corporate social responsibility (CSR) fund to tackle the situation. It had approved Rs 225 crore from the SDRF on March 16 to fight against the pandemic. For the current financial year that started on April 1, the Centre has already released its share of Rs 802 crore (first instalment) to the SDRF two months in advance, which the state government can use for Covid-19 management. During the cabinet meeting that was held through videoconferencing for the first time, chief secretary Asit Tripathy also informed the cabinet about the steps taken by the government so far to handle the pandemic. “We have adequate test kits, medicines and personal protective equipment (PPE) at the moment, which we have been procuring from within and outside the country. As far as triple-layer masks, N-95 masks and medicines are concerned, we have a stock for around four to eight months,” Tripathy told the media later.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhubaneswar/state-hikes-contingency-fund-to-meet-expenditure/articleshow/75071536.cms||---
April 10, 2020||Pune||Five more die of Covid-19 in Pune, case count up to 209||PUNE: Five critically-ill patients succumbed to Covid-19 associated complications at different hospitals in Pune on Thursday, taking the number of contagion deaths in Pune Metropolitan Region (PMR) to 25 so far. Four of the deceased had pre-existing medical conditions like diabetes, hypertension, asthma and ulcerative colitis. Of the total casualties in PMR, 24 were residents of PMC limits, while one was a resident of Baramati in Pune district. Besides, 12 more people tested positive for Covid-19 in PMR on Thursday, taking the total case count in the region the total case count to 209. Of the 12 fresh cases, two were reported from PMC limits, while three from Naidu hospital and seven from the Sassoon hospital. “None of the five patients who died on Thursday had any history of recent foreign travel. Four of them are women who had underlying medical conditions. They are resident of Ganesh Peth, Yerawada, Kondhwa, Parvatigaon and Swargate,” a district health official said. Four of them died at the state-run Sassoon hospital and another at a private hospital in the city limits. “Of the five casualties, a 58-year-old woman from Ganesh Peth was a known patient of diabetes. She was admitted to our hospital on April 8 after she complained of breathlessness,” the official said, adding that she developed bilateral pneumonia and slipped into respiratory distress and died on Thursday. The other deceased included three 65-year-old women from Yerawada, Kondhwa and Parvatigaon. The Yerawada woman had diabetes and hypertension. She was admitted to the hospital on April 5 and succumbed to acute respiratory distress syndrome (ARDS), a fatal complication of Covid-19 and other respiratory viruses, on Thursday. The Kondhwa woman was a patient of asthma, while the Parvatigaon woman was a patient of ulcerative colitis for many years. She was admitted to a private hospital in Pune on March 31. “She complained of giddiness, fever and vomiting. She was undergoing treatment at the hospital's isolation ICU,” hospitals medical director said. ‘Besides, a 44-year-old man from Swargate, who had no pre-existing medical conditions, also breathed his last on Thursday after developing ARDS.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/5-more-die-of-covid-19-in-pune-case-count-up-to-209/articleshow/75074112.cms||Umesh Isalkar
April 10, 2020||Bhopal||Madhya Pradesh cops book 64 foreign members of Tablighi Jamaat||BHOPAL: Police on Thursday registered 57 cases against lockdown violators, including seven against 64 Tablighi Jamaat attendees from abroad, 10 from various other parts of the country and their 13 locals contacts. The foreigner Jamaatis were booked under relevant sections of Foreigner’s Act along with other sections of the Indian Penal Code. ASP Zone-1 Rajat Saklecha said, “Aishbagh police have registered three cases against Jamaatis in which 29 foreigner Jamaatis along with two outstation Jamaatis and six local persons were booked. The foreigner Jamaatis had flouted the VISA rules by coming to India on tourist visas and indulging in religious activities here. Neither the foreign Jamaatis nor their local contacts provided information of their arrival to the city to local administration and police”. Similarly, Mangalwara police have registered a case against seven foreigner Jamaatis, two outstation Jamaatis and one local contact. Shyamla Hills police have also registered a case against 10 foreigner Jamaatis, two outstation Jamaatis and two local contacts. Piplani police have registered a case against 12 foreigner Jamaatis, two outstation Jamaatis and two local contacts. Talaiya police have also registered a case against six foreigner Jamaatis, two outstation Jamaatis and two local contacts. Police said that the foreigner Jamaatis will be fined and deported as and when the flights start operating. Presently all the accused are in quarantine.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/64-jamaatis-booked-57-fresh-cases-for-lockdown-violation/articleshow/75073471.cms||---
April 10, 2020||Jaipur||Jaipur Municipal Corporation to deploy more vehicles, teams to sanitise Walled City||JAIPUR: The spike in the number of Covid-19 cases here has prompted the Jaipur Municipal Corporation (JMC) to increase the number of vehicles and teams to sanitise the Walled City areas. Around 30 teams and seven vehicles are now involved in the work of sanitising Walled City alone. The fire department has already deployed seven fire tenders that are spraying disinfectants. In Ramganj area of Walled City which has become the hotspot, JMC has deployed 15 special teams and four fire tenders for disinfecting the area. On Thursday, BVG company, which is responsible for garbage collection in the city, had been asked to play coronavirus protocols through their hoopers. JMC additional commissioner Arun Garg said, “Out of 600 hoopers, we have facility of playing the protocols in 300 vehicles. We have decided that all the vehicles in Walled City have to play these messages. JMC sanitizing staff is working day and night to keep the pandemic under control.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/jmc-to-deploy-more-vehicles-teams-to-sanitise-walled-city/articleshow/75074110.cms||---
April 10, 2020||Mumbai||Maharashtra cabinet wants veggie vendors to go, SRPF platoons deployment in crowded areas||MUMBAI: The state cabinet on Thursday directed the civic body to not allow vending of vegetables on the streets and the administration to deploy SRPF platoons in congested areas to strictly implement the lockdown. It also directed that “curfew-like conditions” be imposed in coronavirus hot spots to restrict movement to a bare minimum. The BMC has already begun to regulate vegetable markets and restrict vendors in a few areas. “Since more than 50% of the cases in the state are in Mumbai, it has been decided to strictly implement the lockdown in the city. State reserve police force (SRPF) platoons will be deployed in congested areas,” said health minister Rajesh Tope, adding drones will be used to monitor these locations. Tope also said public toilets in the city will be sanitized with jet spray machines by the fire brigade and drone sanitizing technology. At the cabinet meeting held in Mantralaya on Thursday, several ministers were of the opinion that vegetable markets should be shut. Also, police should ensure strict lockdown as people are out using the excuse of vegetable shopping. “There was a demand to shut vegetable markets till April 14. If the crowds do not recede, they will be shut in the next few days,” said minister Anil Parab. Revenue minister Balasaheb Thorat told mediapersons the crowds in vegetable markets were a huge problem and can be only controlled by shutting them. “Areas will have to be identified where markets will be shut. We have asked the BMC to take these steps,” said Thorat. Mumbai’s guardian minister Aslam Shaikh said in areas where cases are higher, movement will be restricted to a bare minimum. “People will not be allowed to leave their homes unless it is an emergency,” said Shaikh. Mumbai police commissioner Parambir Singh said the process of identifying hot spots is on. “After identifying them we will see that these zones are completely shut to combat Covid-19,” he said. The BMC on Thursday decided to act against hawkers in a few areas. N Ward that includes Ghatkopar will allow hawkers on Mondays and Thursdays. In D Ward, which includes Malabar Hill and Walkeshwar, BMC has placed complete restrictions on hawkers. Assistant municipal commissioner Prashant Gaikwad said, “We are restricting only hawkers, who attract crowds.”(With S Ahmed Ali)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/cabinet-wants-veggie-vendors-to-go-srpf-deployment-in-crowded-areas/articleshow/75073498.cms||Bhavika Jain
April 10, 2020||Meerut||Meerut has 6 more Covid-19 cases, tally is 44 now; Amroha sees 5 more positive cases||Meerut: Six more persons were on Thursday diagnosed with suffering from novel coronavirus in Meerut, taking the number of people infected with the contagious disease to 44 in the district. Hapur has six more cases now. Out of the six fresh cases, three were those who attended the Tablighi Jamaat event in Delhi, while the rest three got the infection from them.While three more cases surfaced from Hapur and five in Amroha district. All the tests were conducted at Meerut’s LLRM Medical College’s microbiology lab.Meerut’s chief medical officer (CMO) Dr Rajkumar said, “We had sent 87 samples for testing on Thursday, out of which six tested positive. Out of the total positive cases three were Jamaatis while the remaining three are their contacts. Their locations have been traced to Mawana, Parikshit Garh and Humayun Nagar.”Meanwhile, all the five new positive cases in Amroha were also of those who attended the religious event in Delhi’s Nizamuddin.Amroha’s CMO Dr Megh Singh said, “The total number of cases in Amroha have become seven as of Thursday. All of them are in the age group of 23 to 50 years and the test samples were sent on April 9. Containment plan will be pressed into action in the locations where they have been traced.”Confirming the positive cases, Dr Amit Garg, head of microbiology department at LLRM Medical College, said, “A total of 14 samples tested positive at our lab on Thursday. These included six cases from Meerut, five from Amroha and three from Hapur.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/meerut/meerut-has-6-more-covid-19-cases-tally-is-44-now-amroha-sees-5-more-positive-cases/articleshow/75072664.cms||Ishita Bhatia
April 10, 2020||Ahmedabad||50% of state’s LT cases now from city||Ahmedabad: As the positive Covid cases in the city reached 142 on Thursday, the number of local transmission (LT) cases reached 100. Across Gujarat, the recorded LT cases are 197. Of the total, 33 and 32 patients have a history of international and domestic travel respectively. Out of the deaths, five contracted the diease through LT whereas one had a history of travel to Saudi Arabia. Eight patients have been discharged so far. As for the new cases, majority were from Danilimda, Dariapur, Jamalpur and Shah-e-Alam. Ahmedabad Municipal Corporation (AMC) figures revealed that samples taken at the field level were 748 on Thursday. As on Thursday, 199 persons were at quarantine centres, 1,355 in home quarantine, and 9 hospitalized due to their contact to a positive person. “Ahmedabad has 14 identified clusters with high concentration of COVID-19 positive and suspect cases,” said an official. “In all, 34 teams are deployed to conduct surveys and carry out health check-ups of 22,525 persons. For the purpose, there are 14 medical officers, 14 medical supervisors, and staff of 68 paramedics on the field.” Among the zones, the south zone on Thursday recorded 33 cases and central zone 13, said AMC officials.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/50-of-states-lt-cases-now-from-city/articleshow/75074130.cms||---
April 10, 2020||Bhubaneswar||Odisha native doc on Covid-19 panel||Bhubaneswar: Digambar Behera, Odisha native and Post Graduate Institute of Medical Education & Research (PGIMER), Chandigarh, professor, has been nominated as a member of the clinical research group formulated under the National Task Force for Covid-19 by the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR). AIIMS New Delhi director Randeep Guleria leads the six-member group. Behera, a professor of pulmonary medicine, said the group would meet very soon. “We are in the process of quick information gathering. We will discuss how the disease is behaving in different ways in different countries, what is causing death and how to evolve the clinical practice that is needed for India,” Behera told TOI. There will also be more focused approach towards hydroxychloroquine (HCQ), which many consider as a potential drug for Covid-19. Even though a clinical randomisation trial may not be possible given the urgency, efforts will be made to scientifically find out how HCQ is working, he said. A Padma Shri recipient, Behera is an alumnus of SCB Medical College. He is known as a pioneer of lung cancer chemotherapy and is the founder president of the Indian Study for the Study of Lung Cancer. He has published more than 460 papers and has received many awards. He is also a Fellow of Indian College of Physicians, International College of Angiology, Indian Chest Society and Indian Society of Oncology.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhubaneswar/odisha-native-doc-on-covid-19-panel/articleshow/75071550.cms||---
April 10, 2020||Nagpur||Constable arrested for molesting 13-year-old||Nagpur: Yashodhara Nagar police arrested their own police constable on Thursday, after he allegedly molested a 13-year-old girl at her home in the area. The accused, identified as Ramesh Gadve, has been booked for molestation under sections of the Indian Penal Code (IPC) and Protection of Children from Sexual Offences (POCSO) Act. According to police, the survivor’s father works as a guard at a lawn, so the lawn owner had given him a room there to live with his family and guard the lawn. The survivor Sheela’s (name changed) mother is a nurse at a hospital. It is learnt that there is another room at the lawn, which the owner kept for himself. The owner is friends with some cops posted at Yashodhara Nagar police station. The cops used to regularly hang out at the lawn after duty. They used to take rest at the room, sitting there for hours. Gadve also visited the lawn regularly when he came in contact with Sheela. On Wednesday, the survivor was at her home along with her younger sister, while her parents had gone out. Gadve approached Sheela and allegedly molested her. Sheela narrated the ordeal to her mother when she returned from work, following which the two approached Yashodhara Nagar police station and filed a complaint. Senior PI of Yashodhara Nagar police station Deepak Sakhare said, “We have arrested the accused on molestation charges. We are investigating the case from all angles as it a sensitive one,” he said. The accused will be produced before court on Friday, after which the police will try to get his custody.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/constable-arrested-for-molesting-13-year-old/articleshow/75073570.cms||Viraj Deshpande
April 10, 2020||Pune||NCL creates oxygen enrichment unit to help early stage Covid-19 patients||PUNE: The National Chemical Laboratory (NCL) has developed an indigenous oxygen enrichment unit (OEU) that may be helpful for a Covid-19 patient at an early stage. The unit, with oxygen concentration of 27-35%, may also reduce the chances of the patient being put on ventilator. The eco-friendly technology uses hollow fibre polymeric membranes packed in a unit. Pressurized atmospheric air is fed to the membrane, which performs physical enrichment of oxygen in the permeate (product) air. The unit also filters out all suspended particles, bacteria and viruses. The equipment is different from the currently available oxygen cylinders as they have ~99% oxygen concentration, which is not required for early-stage patients. The prototype has already been tested and a start-up has agreed to manufacture the unit on large scale for use in hospitals. Scientist Ulhas Kharul, who heads the Polymer Science and Engineering division at NCL, said, “Covid-19 patients will not develop sudden crisis of ventilator need. At some point in time, the lung’s ability to absorb oxygen will be hampered. Once, doctors diagnose lung disability, the patient can immediately be put on the oxygen enrichment unit. It will help improve the condition of patient and fight back the coronavirus with the additional support given by oxygen.” Kharul explained that this is known in case of patients with chronic obstructive pulmonary diseases (COPD), where there are lung disabilities. He claimed it was well-proven that if COPD patients are administered oxygen immediately after the disease is detected, their life expectancy is improved. Director of NCL Ashwin Kumar Nangia said, “We have already built the prototype and we are trying to build multiple units based on components readily available. We have tied up with those who can manufacture these right now. As soon as it is ready to manufacture by the start-up and interested companies, it will be deployed at hospitals.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/ncl-creates-oxygen-enrichment-unit-to-help-early-stage-covid-19-patients/articleshow/75074120.cms||Swati Shinde Gole
April 10, 2020||Meerut||How Google Maps & Call Detail Records are helping authorities fight spread of Covid-19||Meerut: At a time when novel coronavirus cases are soaring, technology has come in handy for the UP health officials to keep a tab on patients individually, like tracking their travel history and fixing areas where tracing and surveillance has to be done.While Google Maps is being used to find the one to three kilometre radius of the epicentre of each positive case, a government portal launched on Thursday will help in tracking foreign returnees and other positive cases individually, by uploading their stage by stage details.Not just this, the state health department is also tracing tower locations with the help of Call Detail Records (CDR) of the suspected and positive cases, especially of those who are not disclosing their travel history and movement in the past.“The government has come up with a portal on Thursday, where we have to report on individual case basis. On the portal, we have been asked to update the travel history, current location, the date of sending samples, and positive or negative report status there. This is being done to track the cases individually by the district authorities and to take them into surveillance if at all needed,” said Dr Vishwas Chaudhary, Meerut district surveillance officer.This comes at a time when the state’s tally of coronavirus positive cases has crossed the 400 mark.While containment plans are being pressed into action at the local level where ever positive cases are being reported, active case survey by approaching people door-to-door is also being done. Dr BS Sodhi, chief medical officer of Saharanpur said, “In Saharanpur alone, as many as 2,119 people are in institutional quarantine. However, the main problem that we are facing is that people are afraid to come forward with travel history. To break the chain of the virus, knowing their travel history is of utmost importance. This is why, we are depending on call detail records of the people under surveillance to find their locations in the recent past and thereby zero-in on their contacts.” UP has reported four deaths till now, one each in Meerut, Varanasi, Agra and Basti. While door-to-door surveys are a must at this time, technology, too, has come handy for the health officials. Dr KN Tiwari, chief medical officer of Bulandshahr said, “We are taking help of Google Maps to find the three kilometre radius of all the hotspots in the district. It is helpful for us to focus on the places where contact tracing can be done.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/meerut/how-google-maps-call-detail-records-are-helping-authorities-fight-spread-of-covid-19/articleshow/75072667.cms||Ishita Bhatia
April 10, 2020||Madurai||Spotting source of patient, 60, in Virudhunagar a tough task||Virudhunagar: The Virudhunagar district administration is still in the dark on how a 60-year-old man from Rajapalayam area, the first person in the district to test positive for Covid-19, contracted the disease. “There is still no clarity on how he contracted the infection,” Virudhunagar collector R Kannan said. Identifying the source of infection is posing a challenge for health department officials who suspect he could have contracted it through someone who attended his son’s wedding on March 5.“Three guests from Netherlands and the United States of America had attended the wedding and we suspected one of them as the source of infection. But, follow up revealed that they tested negative in their respective countries,” Kannan said. Health officials tracking the patient’s close contacts said that he and his family did not have any travel history abroad. “Earlier, we suspected that his friend who had travelled to Dubai and returned on March 18 could have been the source. But, the Dubai person tested negative. It is strongly suspected that he could have been infected at the wedding,” a health official said. Around March 13-14, the man who was already suffering from hypertension and was taking antidepressant drugs to boost his immune system started developing mild symptoms of fever and informed his wife only after his condition worsened on March 18.He got treated locally and his family of doctors grew suspicious as he did not recover. A CT scan on March 26 revealed that he had a lung infection. He was shifted from a hospital in Virudhunagar to the Government Rajaji Hospital in Madurai the same day. Swab samples were collected and he tested positive on March 28. Later, he was shifted to a private hospital in Madurai, where he is getting treated. His kin and his driver who were his primary contacts tested negative. Srivilliputhur health officials have collected a list of 36 more close contacts of the patient who are likely to be tested soon. They were identified from the wedding pictures. Officials admitted that it is not going to be easy to identify the source from the nearly 1,500 people who attended the wedding. “We will watch the wedding video with the hope of identifying the source,” an official said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/spotting-source-of-patient-60-in-virudhunagar-a-tough-task/articleshow/75074117.cms||M K Ananth
April 10, 2020||Lucknow||High demand for Covid drug, but doctors say go easy||LUCKNOW: City medical stores either do not have or are running low on hydroxychloroquine-based medicines, a class of drug used in treatment of malaria and rheumatoid arthritis. In a reality check on Wednesday, around 30 pharmaceutical stores in different parts of the city told TOI that the supply of two medicines, demand for which is high, had stopped even before the lockdown had started. As word spread in early March that the medicine can treat Covid-19, the number of customers went up to 28-30 per day from five-six per week. A chemist in Narhi said, “Right before the lockdown, some people had stockpiled hydroxychloroquine. Now, we are giving the medicine only to those with genuine prescription.”Pratima Singh (38), a patient of rheumatoid arthritis, got her medicines after waiting for nearly a month. “The medical store from where I buy medicines regularly took four weeks to arrange the medicine for me as it was out of stock from March end,” she said. Medical store owners said that demand will increase in the coming days when malaria season will come. “6 lakh tablets are used per day in India for rheumatoid arthritis using hydroxychloroquine drug. While there is currently no shortage of supply, logistics in lockdown are the problem. Second, there is one brand name which is most commonly used but that sells out first. Patients refuse to buy the 10 other brands that are of the same combination,” said Dr SK Das, former head of rheumatology at KGMU. “Patients should not panic if they don’t get the medicine, since this medicine takes three months to start showing effects and another one to three months for the effect to vain off. Even if they miss a few doses, it won’t make a lot of difference,” he added. Durg inspector Madhuri Singh said, “Hydroxychloroquine-based medicines have been supplied to government hospitals on priority after the pandemic broke out.” ADM, civil supplies, RD Pandey said, “We are in talks with wholesale dealers to identify the reason of limited availability and working to ensure that minimum stock is available to all. However, medicines will be sold to only those with valid prescription.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/high-demand-for-covid-drug-but-docs-say-go-easy/articleshow/75074116.cms||Rahul Tripathi
April 10, 2020||Hyderabad||Tech by 2 US Indians can detect Covid-19 virus in 20 seconds||HYDERABAD: Lack of sufficient testing kits is proving to be a great stumbling block in the fight against coronavirus. To help the world fight the pandemic on a war footing, two Indian Americans have come up with an AI-powered advanced diagnostic system which will help in quick detection of the Covid-19 virus. Barath NarayananHyderabad’s Srikanth Kodeboyina and Chennai’s Barath Narayanan, who had gone to the US to pursue higher studies, are on the brink of providing the world a tool which is needed urgently. Srikanth is president and CEO of Blue Eye Soft, a Greenville SC based IT software solutions company, while Barath is a research scientist at the University of Dayton Research Institute and Adjunct faculty at University of Dayton. The software developed by Narayanan uses a deep learning algorithm that searches for markings on X-rays that indicate the presence of Covid-19. According to the University of Dalton, the software that Barath came up with has been exclusively licensed to Blue Eye Soft. Srikanth describes the diagnostic system as something that will identify the presence of the virus in 20 seconds with 96% accuracy, as of now. “I am now rushing on an FDA approval process,” Srikanth told TOI from US. “Every life matters, so for the next few days, I am focussed on getting necessary certification from international boards,” he said. “I will be thrilled once FDA approval comes,” Barath told TOI.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/tech-by-2-us-indians-can-detect-virus-in-20-seconds/articleshow/75073479.cms||Ch Sushil Rao
April 10, 2020||Delhi||Double whammy: Coronavirus threat, fear of job loss||NEW DELHI: The toll-free helpline started by the central government to deal with psycho-social problems faced by people in the wake of Covid-19 crisis is getting close to 600 calls daily. People are calling to express their fear of contracting the viral infection and passing them over to families. They want to know how fatal the disease could be and what can they do to prevent it. “Some people also call to express anxiety over possible loss of job or livelihood or domestic violence,” Dr B N Gangadhar, director of National Institute of Mental Health and Neuro Sciences (NIMHANS), Bangalore told TOI. NIMHANS is the nodal agency for psycho-social support to persons affected by the Covid-19 crisis in the country. “We tell everyone three things. First, 80% people affected by the disease develop mild symptoms and they don’t need hospitalisation. Secondly, unlike many other serious illnesses, Covid-19 doesn’t leave a scar meaning there is no residual effect on a person’s well-being. And thirdly, one can reduce the risk of infection by simple measures like maintaining hand hygiene and avoiding crowded places,” Dr Gangadhar said. “The lockdown has changed people’s lifestyle drastically as their movements are restricted. Isolation, social distancing, uncertainty in jobs, constant fear of contracting the virus are causing panic and anxiety attacks among the people,” said Dr Alexander Kuruvilla, chief healthcare strategy officer of Practo which facilities tele-consultation. He said queries related to mental health have grown by 50% in the last two weeks. “Most of the queries are coming from people in the age group of 21-30, followed by people aged 60 and above,” Dr Kuruvilla said. The Practo official added that 74% of all mental health-related queries come from men and 26% from women. “Top queries discussed were loneliness, anxiety and stress management, and panic attacks,” he explained. A leading cardiologist who recovered from Covid-19 recounted he felt he had no control over life. “I was worried whether I will be able to meet my near and dear ones and then a vicious cycle started inside my mind which was difficult to break. One has to be spiritually and emotionally strong to tide over the negativity,” the 40-year-old cardiologist said. When the cardiologist was in hospital, he said, some people in his neighbourhood spread rumours about his wife testing positive too which was untrue, but caused them distress. A pandemic’s effect on mental health, even among those unaffected by it, could be bigger, doctors suggest. “Anxiety, depression and fear are some of the most common symptoms that require attention,” says Dr Nimesh Desai, director of the Institute of Human Behaviour and Allied Sciences. “For the generation in existence, this is the first such experience of a global pandemic. But it’s important to take it well. Those who are able-bodied or able-minded have a responsibility to support the vulnerable ones, for example elderly, children, pregnant women and people with disability among others,” he adds.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/double-whammy-corona-threat-fear-of-job-loss/articleshow/75074124.cms||Durgesh Nandan Jha
April 10, 2020||Ahmedabad||Senior citizens get kindness, give blessings to volunteers in Ahmedabad||AHMEDABAD: At a time when people have been instructed to remain indoors because of the coronavirus pandemic, the Ahmedabad Municipal Corporation tied up with donors and volunteers to get food delivered to the homes of senior citizens twice a day. Over 3,300 senior citizens who stay alone are being provided meals twice a day since the lockdown came into force. In return, the elderly have prayers and blessings to offer for those who have been working tirelessly, even at their own risk, to ensure that they get two meals a day. “Apart from having a dedicated helpline for senior citizens, we have been getting calls on the other helplines as well. AMC staff of about 175 persons, along with about 35 volunteers ensure that more than 3,300 senior citizens get good quality food twice a day,” said Prashant Pandya, OSD to municipal commissioner, AMC, the nodal officer for the service. Among those who have been donating food packets for senior citizens are AAA Charitable Trust, Electrotherm, Dada Bhagwan Foundation, TGB, MICA, SGVP Gurukul, Rotary Club, Udaan Foundation, Umiya Dham, Vatva, Tripada School, Indus Tower, Palak Alina Family, Dr Brijesh Patel and others.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/senior-citizens-get-kindness-give-blessings-to-volunteers/articleshow/75074127.cms||Meghdoot Sharon
April 10, 2020||Meerut||M'nagar locks down 3 places after three TJs, woman test positive||Muzaffarnagar: With three people testing positive for coronavirus in Muzaffarnagar on Wednesday, the first in the district, health department authorities have swung into action to trace all the people they have been in contact with and may have infected them.All the three who tested positive are Tablighi Jamaat members who attended the Nizamuddin meeting. Their samples were sent to the LLRM Medical College in Meerut. They were confirmed positive on Wednesday.Besides, a woman from Sisoli village was also found to be Covid-19 positive in Noida, where she had gone for a surgery.Now, samples of her relatives and a large number of villagers at her village Siosoli have been taken for testing. As many as 24 of them have been brought to Muffarnagar city and quarantined in hotels.Bharatiya Kisan Union chief Naresh Tikait, who is a resident of Sisoli village, was also tested by the medical team and home quarantined.According to sources, days before they tested positive, two of the Jamaatis were brought from Purkazi town and one from Shernagar village and quarantined at BIT College in Meerpur area of Muzaffarnagar.Sources said, two of the Jamaatis belong to Ranchi in Jharkhand while one hails from Kerala.On Thursday, the administration sealed Shernagar village and a particular area of Purkazi town.Now, police and administration have launched a search to find the people who came in contact with the Jamaatis in both areas.Sources said as many as 33 medical teams are working and testing the people at the three places where all four coronavirus positive patients belong to.A heavy police force was deployed at the three places and the DM and SSP are monitoring the situation.Abhishek Yadav, SSP, said,"We are following the protocol and the hot spots were sealed and medical teams were sent to these areas."||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/meerut/mnagar-locks-down-3-places-after-three-tjs-woman-test-positive/articleshow/75072669.cms||Mohd Dilshad
April 10, 2020||Ahmedabad||Asiatic lion census deferred||Ahmedabad: The much-awaited Asiatic lion census, which was to be held from May 15, has been deferred indefinitely in the wake of the nationwide lockdown — a precautionary measure taken to curb the spread of the coronavirus pandemic. The Gujarat forest department, which conducts the census, is weighing the option of conducting the survey after monsoon in November or December. Officials in the state forest department said the census was postponed as there wasn’t enough time to make necessary preparations. The appointment of volunteers and their training is to be completed 15 days before the census begins, but volunteer registration hasn’t been initiated yet. Forest and environment minister Ganpat Vasava confirmed that the May census has been put off. “We want to complete the exercise before the onset of monsoon, but we are keeping a close watch on the Covid-19 situation. If the 21-day lock down period gets extended, we may be able to conduct the exercise after Diwali only. In case the situation improves in the next fortnight, we may take up the exercise before monsoon or July this year,” he said. ACS, forests, Rajiv Gupta said, “We are keeping a close watch on the situation and may go ahead with the plan in May if the situation returns to normal. We do not need lot of preparation and if things are deemed safe, our staff and volunteers will begin the census.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/asiatic-lion-census-deferred/articleshow/75073488.cms||---
April 10, 2020||Hyderabad||Hyderabad: Rurban initiative helps people get vegetables||HYDERABAD: In what can be seen as a perfect example of rural-urban connect during the lockdown, farmers cultivating vegetables close to Hyderabad are being guaranteed sales and remunerative price while the consumer at the other end is getting them all – at no extra price. By placing an order through the HesaApp, the consumer can get the vegetables and provisions delivered at his home, promise the promoters. Presently, the items are being delivered at the door in four zones in the city. Zone I comprises Gachibowli, Kondapur, Nanakramguda, Miyapur, Chandanagar, Manikonda, Toli Chowki and nearby areas, zone II includes Hi-Tec City, Banjara Hills, Kukatpally, KPHB, Masab Tank, Khairatabad and nearby areas, zone III has Sainikpuri, AS Rao Nagar, Nizampet, Ameerpet, Begumpet, Dilsukhnagar and zone IV includes RTC crossroads, Himayatnagar, Uppal, Vanasthalipuram and nearby areas. Vegetables are being delivered at the door in four zones in Hyderabad. The brainchild behind the initiative, Vamshi Udayagiri says nearly 800-1,000 people who have been out of jobs because of the lockdown are now part of this social initiative. “All that the consumer has to pay extra is Rs 30 towards the cost of fuel for the delivery boy,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/rurban-initiative-helps-people-get-veggies/articleshow/75073494.cms||Ch Sushil Rao
April 10, 2020||Bhubaneswar||Framing curriculum to rhythm of classical music, IIT director uses gift of time||Bhubaneswar: What the lockdown has given RV Rajakumar, director of IIT Bhubaneswar, is time; the time to work on the next-generation pedagogical practices and curriculum to be followed by his institution for the following five years. This creative work, which consumes both attention and time, has only been possible because of the unexpected gift of time that the lockdown has brought into the academic-administrator’s life. “I personally took up the task to prepare the curricular structure of the institution. In normal times, it would have been very difficult to do it but now I have a lot of time to carry out this creative work. The number of files I have to screen and the meetings I have to attend are fewer, so I wanted to utilise my time for this work,” said Rajakumar. For the first time. the whole teaching and learning work at IIT Bhubaneswar has gone online and the transition has been smooth, said Rajakumar, who is personally monitoring the online classes of different schools of his institute and research output of scholars and teachers during the lockdown. He talks to them through videoconference and asks them to come up with innovative ideas to teach students online. The director also monitors the well-being of 1,900 workers engaged in construction work at the institution. “They could not return to their native places due to the lockdown, but they are doing fine here. We also look after around 400 out of the 2,130 students staying in the institute’s hostels,” he added. As the director lives on campus, he goes to his office every day, although it is without most of its staff at present. “I take all precautions at office and work in isolation. I normally spend eight to 10 hours in the office with significantly reduced support staff,” he added. The director has already formed six teams to conduct research on six different issues related to Covid-19. These include study of different characteristics of the coronavirus, ways of carrying out waste treatment and sanitization during this pandemic, and how to make sanitizers, disinfectants and ventilators to help the government. Rajakumar, an admirer of Indian classical music, also ensures that he can indulge in his hobby during the lockdown. “When I am at home, I listen to classical music. It is really therapeutic. I also discuss the situation with my wife, a professor. We spend some time over phone or video call with our children in the US. My son is a researcher and my daughter works for Microsoft. They practice yoga and pranayam every day and they are doing fine there,” he added. The director said the government has taken timely steps to control the spread of Covid-19. “My personal request to the government is to create seamless transportation of agricultural products from the farm to the door of customers. It will stop waste of agricultural produce and prevent the creation of artificial shortage of vegetables and other produce. The lockdown should be withdrawn in phases,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhubaneswar/framing-curriculum-to-rhythm-of-classical-music-iit-director-uses-gift-of-time/articleshow/75071560.cms||Hemanta Pradhan
April 10, 2020||Jaipur||Students of non-board classes to be promoted||Jaipur: The goverment has decided to promote all students in the non-board classes without any exam due to the ongoing lockdown. CM Ashok Gehlot made the announcement in a video conference with the education minister on Thursday. The final exams of government schools were supposed to start from April 5 but were postponed due to the lockdown. “Under the rule of Right to Education, no student will be failed till Class VIII. The new session is about to begin, so to avoid any more academic loss to the students they were promoted, only for non-board classes,” the chief minister said. As the classes have been suspended, the government has decided to start a WhatsApp group on which content will be uploaded every day for the next three months. A meeting with the teachers and officials of education department was conducted through video conferencing on Thursday asking them to start adding parents and students in the WhatsApp groups. From Monday onwards, at 9am, content either theoretical or video form, will be uploaded on the groups. Another important decision was that the schools in Rajasthan will not charge any fees for the next three months due to the coronavirus pandemic. Director of secondary education Sourabh Swami, however, clarified that this did not mean that the fees had been waived. “School fees have not been waived but only deferred. Parents will have to pay full fees after three months. If some parents voluntarily want to pay fees for these three months, they can do so,” said Swami. Further, it was decided that the higher education institutions in the state can announce summer vacations from April 15. To decide on the pending exams for universities in the state, a five-member committee has been appointed that will give suggestions to the government within three days.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/students-of-non-board-classes-to-be-promoted/articleshow/75074131.cms||---
April 10, 2020||Madurai||Motivation exercise helps entrepreneurs battle anxiety||Madurai: As businesses around the country are facing hurdles due to the lockdown, an NGO has come forward to provide counselling and mental support to entrepreneurs and business heads who are battling stress and anxiety worrying about staying afloat till this period of uncertainty passes.One among them is A K B Nawas Babu, managing director of S A Knitwears private limited, whose manufacturing unit with around 100 employees has come to a standstill. He has left no stone unturned to keep in touch with his stake holders including suppliers, customers and distributors, so that he can start manufacturing once the lockdown is lifted. He is not alone. For the last one week Nawas Babu has been finding solace in the confidence building exercise ‘Naalai Namadhe’ being conducted by Nativelead Foundation, an NGO promoting entrepreneur skills in smaller cities and towns. A two-hour session is being organized between 5pm and 7pm, where eminent people from a range of industries engage entrepreneurs and business people through video conferencing. Around 100 people from various parts of the state have been taking part in it since it was launched on April 1. As the number of request has increased, from Thursday onwards the capacity has been increased to accommodate 500 people from Thursday. “Apart from confidence building to stay afloat at this time of crisis, we also get valuable inputs and loads of experience from successful business people and industry experts. Every day, I look forward to the session to get relief from stress,” said Tharakeshwari of Ganya Agro Products, based in Chennai. Various people includingNaturals salon and spa co founder C K Kumaravel, Tamil culture minister Ma Foi Pandiarajan, Nagaraj Prakasa, an angel investor from Bengaluru, Praveen Sekar, a marketing expert, and A Velumani, managing director of Thyrocare, are some of the speakers.Nativelead Foundation founder R Sivarajah said they had planned an event for entrepreneurs called ‘Startup Tamil Nadu 2020’ jointly with the state government at IIT Madras. It had to be cancelled just two days before its scheduled launch of March 12, due to Covid-19 pandemic. It was part of a 10-year plan of creating 1,000 entrepreneurs with 100 people every year. “Ever since the programme was cancelled, I was getting calls from budding entrepreneurs who were distressed due to the lockdown. They were facing issues in running their business, stalled payments and psychological issues due to uncertainty of days ahead. We came up with idea of addressing their issues through video conferencing,” Sivarajah said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/motivation-exercise-helps-entrepreneurs-battle-anxiety/articleshow/75074129.cms||---
April 10, 2020||Ahmedabad||Coordination teams to be formed||Gandhinagar: The state government will now form coordination teams in every district to control spread of coronavirus. Chief minister Vijay Rupani held a video conference with leading members of the Indian Medical Association and sought their inputs in countering Covid-19. Ashwani Kumar, secretary to the CM said, “The committee will be headed by the district collector. Representatives from IMA and leading medical practitioners will be a part of the committees. The step is aimed at mitigating large-scale outbreaks, if any, in the near future.” Around 1,000 private physicians and pulmonologists and 300 anaesthetics will provide services in the committees. He also asked top health officials to remain in touch with members of the IMA and seek their inputs in dealing with the crisis. Rupani also urged private practitioners to start OPD work in their clinics and report to the nearest government hospital dedicated to Covid-19, if they find possible cases.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/coordination-teams-to-be-formed/articleshow/75073506.cms||---
April 10, 2020||Meerut||15 quarantined after Meerut doctor posted at Delhi cancer institute tests positive||MEERUT: A doctor, who is posted at Delhi State Cancer Institue (DSCI), tested positive for coronavirus in the national capital on Thursday, following which 13 of his family members and two of his neighbours were quarantined in Meerut. The doctor had come to his home in Shafiabad Loti village of Kharkhoda block in Meerut last week and stayed there till April 6. Official said they are tracing people who had come in contact with the doctor this past week. “A Meerut-based doctor, who is posted at DSCI, tested positive for coronavirus in Delhi on Thursday, just two days after left Meerut. His family members have been quarantined and his contacts are being traced,” Dr Raj Kumar, Meerut chief medical officer, said. “The samples of 15 people are being taken to test for coronavirus. Out of the 15, 13 are his family members, including his wife, and two are neighbours in Kharkhoda. We have begun contact tracing and a containment plan in the three-kilometre radius of the area has been implemented,” said Dr Vishwas Chaudhary, Meerut district surveillance officer. Notably, about 21 health workers, including doctors and nursing staff, were tested positive for coronavirus at Delhi State Cancer Institute.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/meerut/15-quarantined-after-meerut-doc-posted-at-delhi-cancer-institute-tests-positive/articleshow/75072670.cms||Ishita Bhatia
April 10, 2020||Mysuru||Carcasses of two elephants found in MM Hills range||Mysuru: Days after two elephants slipped and died in the River Cauvery in Chamarajanagar, the forest department has found the carcass of two more jumbos in the Male Mahadeshwara range in the border district. The foresters have found the bodies of one male and one female elephant in GJ Gaudanahalli and Doddahalla respectively. Sources in the forest department said that the elephants must have died a few days ago, but their carcasses were found on Wednesday by officials who were on patrol. Deputy conservator of forests (DCF) for the MM Hills range V Yedukondalu, confirming the death of two elephants, said, “The female elephant died after it slipped into a deep gorge in Doddahalla. We suspect it must have been roaming around in search of water.” The DCF said that the elephant had sustained fractures, and severe injuries owing to the fall. “We have conducted a postmortem. The elephant was around 29 years old,” Yedukondalu said. An official in the forest department said that the male tusker that died in GJ Goudanahalli was around 25 years old. “It died of natural cases around 20 days ago. We have recovered both its tusks,” he said. The discovery of carcasses of two jumbos follows the death of two elephants, one of which was pregnant, in the Cauvery Wildlife Sanctuary on April 5.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mysuru/carcasses-of-two-elephants-found-in-mm-hills-range/articleshow/75072699.cms||---
April 10, 2020||Vadodara||Second positive case in Anand, more area under containment||Vadodara/ Anand: Anand registered its second Covid-19 positive case on Thursday after a 45-year-old male from Hadgud village neighbouring Anand town tested positive of the deadly virus. The patient with no known travel history works as a garage mechanic. He had developed symptoms including fever, cough and body ache after which he was shifted to the isolation ward of Shree Krishna Hospital, Karamsad. Following the confirmation, a one km area surrounding the residence of the man in Hadgud, has been declared as cluster quarantine. Disinfectants are being sprayed and house-to-house surveillance is being carried out in this area which counts for 2,561 homes and nearly 13,360 population. The mass drive includes 26 paramedical staff, four supervisors and three medical officers. So far, 106 samples have tested negative in the district. While 265 individuals are under home quarantine, 24 are presently under quarantine at government facility. Two days ago, the milk city had recorded its first Covid-19 positive case after a 54-year-old male had tested positive on Tuesday. Following this case, 500 metres area near his residence at Enterprise Society in Padariya area of Anand was declared as cluster quarantine. Health teams have launched a surveillance drive in this area covering 6,596 houses and 38,519 population, district health officials said, adding that 38 paramedical staff, nine supervisors and three medical officers were involved in this drive. Condition of both the patients under treatment at Karamsad is said to be stable.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/second-positive-case-in-anand-more-area-under-containment/articleshow/75071357.cms||---
April 10, 2020||Ahmedabad||1 more tests +ve, Markaz tally now 12||Ahmedabad: DGP Shivanand Jha said that there was no addition in the number of Delhi Markaj attendees from the city on Thursday. He said the figure stands at 127. Jha said till Wednesday, out of the 127 Tablighi attendees from the state, 11 had tested positive for Covid-19. One more person was tested positive on Thursday, taking the tally to 12. They all have been quarantined. Jha said that the police are keeping a close watch on different social media platforms. “Till now, 149 such offences have been registered and 273 people have been arrested for spreading hate messages and spreading rumours on social media,” he said. The DGP said the police will now be concentrating on social distancing. “Anyone found violating the rules will be booked,” he said. Jha also warned the banks and other stores not to allow gathering of people. Giving figures of offences and arrests made so far during the lockdown period, DGP Jha said on Wednesday, 2,956 offences of violation of notification were registered. For quarantine violation 833 persons were booked and sent to quarantine centres across the state. “Total 3,553 offences were registered on Wednesday and 6,265 persons were booked. A total of 4,163 vehicles were detained on Wednesday. In all, 460 offences were registered with the help of CCTV cameras, in which 1,919 persons were detained. Drones helped in registering 46 offences,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/1-more-tests-ve-markaz-tally-now-12/articleshow/75074136.cms||---
April 10, 2020||Delhi||Next up, buffer zones to be set up in Delhi||NEW DELHI: As intensive house-to-house screening begins in the 23 Covid-19 containment zones in Delhi, authorities are also looking to create buffer zones around these areas with clusters of positive cases. A public health official of South Delhi Municipal Corporation said that they would also start random checking of temperatures and monitoring of any symptoms in general population. “The revised Covid-19 containment plan sent by the ministry of health and family welfare clearly states that the area under the geographical quarantine will be defined into containment zone surrounded by a buffer zone. While there will be no movement inside the containment zone, the minimal movement in the buffer zone around it will be carefully monitored,” said the public health official. Another official added that even though the containment plan called for a buffer zone of a 5-km radius, the local administration would chalk out containment zone-wise geographical areas based on road access, movement of people, geo-spatial distribution of cases within the cluster and e possibility of interaction between containment zone inhabitants and the buffer area. While the containment zones have active surveillance with door-to-door check-up as has been witnessed in Nizamuddin basti, the buffer zone will witness what municipal officials call “passive surveillance”. “Dedicated surveillance teams will be formed for each zone which will remain in touch with community leaders, RWA heads and local politicians to get reports on any house or flat that may have people showing symptoms. Such people will be then tested,” the official added. The new guidelines state that buffer zones will immediately come after the geographical defining of containment zones. The containment plan states that the passive surveillance will also monitor people with Severe Acute Respiratory Infection. Guidelines say that hospitalised patients from the buffer areas with severe respiratory illnesses will also be tested for Covid-19.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/next-up-buffer-zones-to-be-set-up/articleshow/75074138.cms||Paras Singh
April 10, 2020||Agra||Private hospital in Agra emerges as new hotspot of Covid-19||Agra: With maximum seven new coronavirus positive cases surfacing from one place, a private hospital on National Highway 2 on Thursday emerged as a major novel coronavirus hotspot in Agra. The hospital has been sealed and movement of people around it has been restricted. Health department teams are taking samples of all the staff, patients admitted in the hospital and the contacts of those who tested positive. Chief medical officer (CMO) of Agra district, Dr Mukesh Kumar Vats, said, “It is a matter of concern that seven coronavirus positive cases have been reported from one place. These include two male nurses, three intensive care unit workers and a manager of the hospital. All these people had come in contact with a Covid-19 infected patient. All of them have been shifted to the isolation facility. A team of doctors is attending to them.” Vats added, “We have started collecting samples of all the contacts of the infected people and patients at the hospital. Staff of the hospital and their family members are being quarantined. Dedicated teams have been tasked for time-bound action to stop the spread of the infection." According to health department officials, a 53-year-old woman, who is a resident of Mantola locality in Agra, was admitted to the hospital for treatment of a respiratory ailment on March 25. She was also suffering from tuberculosis and diabetes. On April 3, her family shifted her to a hospital in Mathura. On April 6, she tested positive for Covid-19. On receiving the information, the Agra health team took samples of the staffers of the private hospital. And seven were confirmed positive for Covid-19. More than 100 people related to the hospital are vulnerable to the Covid-19 infection. Patients from Etah, Mainpuri, Firozabad and other nearby districts were also admitted to the hospital. All of them are being tracked. Some days back, another hospital, located at Namner, was sealed. The owner of the hospital and his son, both doctors, tested Covid-19 positive. They are undergoing treatment at a private hospital in Gurugram. On April 6, the lab and operation theatre technicians of the hospital tested positive. On April 8, the wife and daughter of the lab technician also tested positive.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/agra/private-hospital-in-agra-emerges-as-new-hotspot-of-covid-19/articleshow/75072709.cms||Deepak Lavania
April 10, 2020||Jaipur||Wearing masks must in Rajasthan, 7th state to do so||JAIPUR: The state government on Thursday decided to make masks mandatory in all urban areas amid continuing spike in the cases of coronavirus in the state. Many state governments have made the use of masks mandatory in a bid to stop the spread of virus. Rajasthan is now the seventh state in the country to make masks mandatory. The decision was taken at a review meeting chaired by the chief minister Ashok Gehlot. “It said it is compulsory to wear masks at all the 196 municipal areas, including municipal corporations, municipal council, municipality and agriculture markets. Those who violate this provision will invite legal action.” The chief minister said that the ‘Bhilwara model’ of strict restrictions on the movement of people be enforced in the other hotspots like Jaipur, Jodhpur, Bikaner, Churu, Tonk, Jhunjhunu and Banswara. He said in the 38 curfew bound areas, no people including government employees’ entry and exit be stopped. Gehlot also directed that screening and testing be extended to the congested areas like Bhatta Basti, Amrut puri, Kho Nagoriyan, Moti Dungri road in Jaipur city. The chief minister said home quarantine be followed in all areas where corona positive cases have been reported. He said the buildings of educational institutions, hotel, and hospital outside the city limit could be taken over for this purpose. Gehlot directed that it is also important to take care of the welfare of the people on home quarantine and the protocol should be strictly followed. JDA commissioner T Ravikant has been made the officer in-charge of quarantine facilities. Gehlot directed to introduce ‘cluster sampling system’ in the curfew bound walled city areas in Jaipur which has now emerged as the hot bed of the virus. He directed to divide the area in to 30 clusters and 30 samples from each cluster be tested. It was also decided to deploy five mobile medical units in the area. The chief minister appealed to the people to cooperate with the health workers who are in the forefront of the fight against the virus. Medical and Health minister Raghu Sharama said 3,000 sample tests are being conducted at SMS hospital. He said 66 patients at the SMS Hospital have been reported negative for the disease. Additional chief secretary Rohit Kumar Singh claimed that Rajasthan is now second after Maharashtra in testing. He said order has been placed for 10 lakh kits for tests and first tranche of 2 lakh kits are expected shortly.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/wearing-masks-must-in-raj-7th-state-to-do-so/articleshow/75074134.cms||---
April 10, 2020||Patna||Recovered coronavirus patients face social stigma in Bihar||PATNA: Covid- 19 survivors in Bihar, who have won the battle with the virus, are battling another scourge — social stigma arising out of misinformation and panic surrounding this pandemic that has the entire world in its grip. Not just the cured patients, their families, too, are facing taunts and social discrimination at every stage of the disease —pre-diagnosis, treatment, and post-cure. Recovered patients say the streets and lanes where they live have begun to be branded as ‘Corona wali gali’, people are seen pointing fingers at their houses and talking in hushed tones, which gives out a subtle yet strong vibe of social shunning. “Day before yesterday, a few health officials came to our apartment for a follow-up check-up, but other families did not allow them to enter the building,” says a cured patient, who lives in Digha. The cured patient added, “We had to go out on the road for the health officials to collect the samples. There are other instances as well, but we are not blaming anyone as they may not be well aware about Covid-19. Perhaps we would also behave like them if we had not experienced it.” Sanjay Kumar, principal secretary of health department, described such discrimination against cured patients as absurd. “People, who get cured are brave enough to fight the virus. There should not be any discrimination based on who gets infected by the virus. People need to unite and fight the prevailing situation,” Kumar said. The state government has taken several steps to create awareness about the disease so that it does not lead to such social discrimination, yet several cured patients are facing this. “Although I’m deemed negative by the health department, I’m still facing discrimination,” says a Phulwarisharif resident, adding, that health department should create awareness among the masses about the Covid- 19 virus. The patient recounted, “The lane where I live is now called ‘Corona wali gali’. Only yesterday, some civic workers were spraying disinfectant in my locality and when they reached near my house they let loose a strong sprayed of sodium hypochlorite at the entrance gate which came flooding inside our house. It was clear that they were marking us out.” Other recovered patients are also facing discrimination and now avoid going out. A cured patient from Munger said whenever his family members go outside to buy essential goods, residents keep staring and pointing fingers at them, which makes them feel unwelcome and uncomfortable. Another from Gopalganj says, “I am worried about what will happen when the home quarantine will be over. Because of me, my family and relatives are facing a lot of problems.” Health experts, on the other hand, suggest that people who won the fight against Covid-19 should be the ideal persons to create awareness about the virus. A city-based physician Dr Diwakar Tejaswi said, “People should know that the cure rate in this virus is 80% while there is only 5% of mortality rate. Once the patient is cured, they become immune. Cured people won’t afflict others as they are not harbouring the virus,” he said. He added: “A healed person is beneficial to the community because the person becomes immune. He is also beneficial to the medical fraternity because their plasma can cure critically ill positive cases.” Dr Pramod Singh, head of psychiatric department of PMCH, said, “Only awareness can put a stop to this. There are instances when sufferers of infectious diseases are stigmatised. But only the right information passed by competent authority can change the mindset.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/recovered-corona-patients-face-social-stigma-in-state/articleshow/75071886.cms||---
April 10, 2020||Lucknow||Miracle for Mohit on ventilator support||LUCKNOW: Although KGMU Trauma Centre services normalised on Thursday, Shakuntala Devi, shivered while recalling the trauma when health staff ordered evacuation of her son after the fire broke out. “My son, Mohit (27), who was critically injured in a road accident and was on ventilator support in the neurosurgery department. Moving him out of ventilator meant certain death, while staying put offered a flicker of hope. I kept praying for a miracle and it happened. The fire was doused on time,” she told TOI. While Shakuntala preferred to stay back, other 10 critical patients on ventilator in the neurosurgery and trauma medicine departments were swiftly shifted to adjoining Shatabdi Hospital within minutes. At least 170 patients were evacuated to other wards on main campus. “After fire department gave a green signal, all patients were moved back. The condition of all patients is stable, said Trauma Centre surgery head and chief spokesperson Prof Sandeep Tiwari.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/miracle-for-mohit-on-ventilator-support/articleshow/75074132.cms||Vivek Singh Chauhan
April 10, 2020||Hyderabad||Telugu techies’ rib-tickling video on coronavirus goes viral||HYDERABAD: A few Telugu youth in New York and New Jersey — the hotbed of coronavirus outbreak in the US — created a short musical video to highlight the difficulties being faced by people due the pandemic. The techies use their comic timing to drive home the need to stay indoors and maintain personal hygiene. Directed by Sai Swaroop Mysore, a systems engineer based in New Jersey, the cast includes him along with fellow techies Kalyan Reddy Mungi, Anil Reddy Mannem, Varun Reddy and Sampath Durgavarapu. The techies, all originally from Hyderabad, studied at The University of Missouri. The video ‘Careful Corona Aagaya’ in Telugu is shot in Piscataway city of New Jersey state. “I first thought of making this video when I got back to the US from my trip to India in March. I was lucky enough to be back as the lockdown was announced four days after my travel. The situation was not yet as intense and that’s when we all met and decided to make the video,” Sai Swaroop said, adding the idea was to make Telugus understand the seriousness of an issue through a light-hearted video. The 5 minute 15 second-musical explains conditions that many people in the US are experiencing. It shows among other things how people were over sanitising; how everyone coming from out of town was being treated and how not following precautions could turn on into a victim of Covid-19. “All precautions are depicted following WHO’s guidelines,” he added. There was no commercial aspect to the film that has generated 14k views on an online video sharing platform. A part of the lyrics: “Careful corona aagaya/deshaalanu dandayatra chesinaa/don’t panic neeku raakundaa/safety chusukoo sodaraa” (Careful corona has come/ spreading rapidly across the world/don’t panic you won’t catch it/ friend think of your safety). Kalyan Reddy Mungi said: “With all rumours and superstitions floating around social media to get rid of virus, we just wanted to try and do our bit to reach at least some people in a fun way about real precautions.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/telugu-techies-rib-tickling-video-on-coronavirus-goes-viral/articleshow/75073517.cms||---
April 10, 2020||Mumbai||APMC to shut vegetable, fruit markets, traders to supply directly to Mumbai||The APMC administration on Thursday decided to shut three wholesale market yards of vegetables and fruits from April 11 till further notice. Spice and grain markets will continue to operate. Wholesale traders and brokers have been asked to send essentials procured from farmers to Mumbai markets directly, bypassing Vashi APMC, to ensure the supply chain is not disrupted. The decision was taken after an APMC trader from the spices market tested positive for Covid-19 on Wednesday. Earlier on Thursday, traders from the onion-potato market, too, decided to shut shops from April 13 as thousands flock there daily.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/apmc-to-shut-veg-fruit-markets-traders-to-supply-directly-to-city/articleshow/75073534.cms||B B Nayak
April 10, 2020||Madurai||Madurai: Man kills alcoholic son for creating problems||MADURAI: A 55-year-old man killed his alcoholic son allegedly for creating problems for his family by asking for money to buy liquor. The incident happened late on Wednesday at their house in Nethaji Nagar in Vandiyur Main Road. Following the murder, the accused V Muthukumar called the emergency number and handed himself over to the police. The victim was identified as M Arunkumar, 26. Police said Arunkumar drank heavily every day and created problems for his family which sometimes ended up in physical assault. It was only recently Muthukumar escaped with minor injuries after Arunkumar attacked him with knife for questioning his behaviour. On Wedensday night, Arunkumar started troubling him asking for money to buy liquor. Angry at this, Muthukumar struck him with axe in his head and leg, leaving him dead at the scene. On information, a police team arrived at the house and shifted the body to government Rajaji hospital. Police arrested Muthukumar following a formal inquiry. He was produced before a judicial magistrate and lodged in prison.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/man-kills-alcoholic-son-for-creating-problems/articleshow/75074137.cms||---
April 10, 2020||Bhubaneswar||Bhubaneswar: AIIMS dubs housekeeping staff Sanjay its unsung hero||BHUBANESWAR: The authorities of AIIMS Bhubaneswar are all praise for one of their housekeeping staff members who disposes biomedical waste that is generated in the isolation ward earmarked for Covid-19 patients. The reason? This staff member came forward to carry out the task when no one else was willing to do it. He is 21-year-old Sanjay Dehury of Bhubaneswar, who stays in a village near AIIMS. Clad in a deep blue uniform and armed with personal protection equipment (PPE), masks and gloves, Dehury lifts medical waste from the isolation ward and dumps it in the hospital yard every day. “I reach the hospital at 7am and return home at 4pm. I get an hour’s lunch break in between. The staff in the isolation ward pack the waste in different bags and seal them. I pick up the waste material from the ward and dump it in the yard by carrying the bags in a van,” said Dehury. Dehury joined the hospital five months ago through an employment agency. He began working in the Covid-19 ward since March 27. In the process, he was trained by the hospital on the correct way of wearing PPE, masks and gloves. He also knows how to handle biomedical waste. “I don’t touch any surface or any person while wearing the PPE. I take all precautions,” he added. The youth began working early in life, as he could not continue studying after Class X because of financial distress in the family. He started working as housekeeping staff in different firms to earn some money for his family of three. “I get around Rs 12,000 per month after deduction of PF and ESI contribution,” he added. When asked why he chose the unenviable task of disposing biomedical waste when other housekeeping staff did not turn up for duty, Dehury said he felt it was his duty to fight coronavirus, which he described as an enemy of the country. “Coronavirus is an enemy of the country and the world. Health workers and other people involved in containing the disease are fighting against this virus. I feel like a soldier who contributes to the fight. This is an opportunity for me to serve the country. I could not become a doctor, nurse or paramedic because of my lack of education, but I can help the hospital in a small way by doing this,” said Dehury. When he returns home, he faces discrimination from the other villagers. “My fellow villagers do not talk to my family. They ostracise us. Some of them insist that our neighbours must also stop talking to us. Sometimes I feel bad, but then I handle it,” he added. Dehury criticized people who spread rumours about Covid-19 and blames them for making the life of health workers like him difficult. “One youth from my locality has said many false things about my job. I don’t want to get into details. People want me to stay outside the village. That is more painful than the disease,” he added. But the doctors at AIIMS praise him for his work. “One hospital administrator gave me food thrice on the day Bhubaneswar shut down. Our hospital director and doctors personally praised me for my work,” he added. AIIMS Bhubaneswar director Gitanjali Batmanabane dubbed Dehury the unsung hero of her institution. “Sanjay Dehury from the housekeeping unit single-handedly removes biomedical waste as workers refuse to come for duty. Removing biomedical waste from Covid-19 wards and areas with suspected patients has become a nightmare for us. A big shout-out to him for leading from the front,” said the director.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhubaneswar/aiims-dubs-housekeeping-staff-sanjay-its-unsung-hero/articleshow/75071583.cms||Hemanta Pradhan
April 10, 2020||Bhubaneswar||High court allows e-filing of cases||Cuttack: In view of the exigency caused by Covid-19, the Orissa high court on Thursday introduced e-filing facility to enable litigants to file cases electronically. The facility was introduced under the Orissa High Court e-filing and Video Conferencing Scheme 2020. Earlier, the high court had allowed litigants to file petitions via email for urgent hearings through video conferencing system installed in the court premises. Now, the litigants can avail themselves of the service of a specially developed and secure online e-filing section. Under the Orissa High Court e-filing and Video Conferencing Scheme 2020, the court expects lawyers and litigants to stay at home in view of the health risk at this juncture and ensure availability of video or meeting apps on their devices. However, in the event any advocate or party chooses to use the video conferencing system installed in the court premises, he or she is expected to make a specific request in that regard while submitting his or her memo for listing. Since the functioning of high court was asuspended due to lockdown, hearing on urgent matters has been taken up through the video conferencing system installed in the court premises. Since March 25, when the court function was suspended, around a 100 cases have been taken up for hearing through this process. Of them, seven were PILs (two of them registered suo motu by the high court) and 85 bail/anticipatory bail applications. Deputy registrar (judicial) S K Mishra said the scheme was introduced in pursuance of a Supreme Court directive issued on April 6 authorizing high courts to take all measures to reduce physical presence of stakeholders of the judicial system within court premises and to secure functioning of courts in consonance with social distancing guidelines and best public health practices. In a notice, the deputy registrar (judicial) said the scheme would be in force till the exigency arising out of Covid-19 persists. Hard copy of e-filed cases will have to be filed along with requisite court fees within seven days after the normal work resumes, the scheme adds.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhubaneswar/high-court-allows-e-filing-of-cases/articleshow/75071585.cms||lalmohan.patnaik
April 10, 2020||Meerut||Woman, 47, helping her village cope with Covid-19 after making it ODF||Bijnor: At 47, Jarifan has another task cut out for her, and she is restless as ever. In the next few days, she will ensure that every person in her Mauzampur Tulsi village wears a mask, and follows the physical distancing. She is stitching and distributing them for free. And, over 500 families of the Bijnor village will “fall in line”, as they did earlier on several occasions.Jarifan was felicitated in 2016 by the then President Pranab Mukherjee for playing an active role in government’s campaign against open defecation. “Due to her efforts, at least 200 houses built toilets. The village is now free from open defecation,” says a senior government officer.District coordinator of National Rural Livelihood Mission (NRLM) Gyan Singh says, “Jarifan is a gritty woman who faced several odds in her life. She now runs her own self-help group in which several women have got employment. She is working as senior community resource person and is associated with our scheme. She was felicitated by President and UP chief minister Yogi Adityanath for her work.”“The odds were surmountable,” says Jarifan, while pausing to instruct a manual worker to clean the filth lying on the road in the minority-dominated village, about 40-km from district headquarters of Bijnor. Married at an early age, Jarifan had seven children to raise by the time she reached 31.“Suddenly, one day, my husband fell ill and became bed-ridden. I consulted several doctors, but he couldn’t stand at all. I was illiterate and didn’t know what to do then,” Jarifan said while recalling the past. “I knew cooking though,” she said. So Jarifan eventually landed a cook’s job in a government primary school.Apart from cooking the mid-day meal, Jarifan also helped the school enrol at least 50 students from the village.She was getting Rs 500 per month as cook, which was not enough to sustain such a large family.“I also started attending panchayat meetings to know about the government schemes,” she said. It was there she got the idea of self-help group. In the meantime, she also joined evening classes at adult education programme, and in 2015, cleared Class VIII exams at the age of 42.Now, she runs a self-help group of ten women. Apart from running the group, she also rents out subsidized agriculture equipment to farmers. Yogendra Pal Singh Yogi, deputy project officer of Agricultural Technology Management Agency (ATMA) scheme said, “Jarifan has taken some subsidized agriculture equipment under central sponsored scheme. She gives them on rent to farmers. She is running her group with honestly.” Jarifan, now 47, says, “My four children are married now. Rest are still in school.” Now, she is busy spreading information about Covid-19 in the village. “I am going door-to-door and sensitizing women and children that they should stay at home to save their lives. They should offer namaz at home and maintain social distancing.” So far, she had distributed over 300 masks and more are being stitched by her group.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/meerut/woman-47-helping-her-village-cope-with-covid-19-after-making-it-odf/articleshow/75072684.cms||Harveer Dabas
April 10, 2020||Mangaluru||Udupi district admin to feed helpless and hungry strays||Times News Network Udupi: The Udupi district administration has come to the rescue of stray animals starving on the streets of the district. As per the instructions of deputy commissioner G Jagadeesh, the deputy director of the Udupi department of animal husbandry has prepared an action plan to feed the animals. The authorities have also instructed the local administration (CMC) and gram panchayats to to feed the animals found wandering till April 14. According to the 2019 Cattle Census, the district has about 60,000 street dogs, besides other animals like cattle, cats and birds that are to be fed. The Udupi municipality alone has over 19,000 street dogs according to the census. Dr Harish Tamankar, deputy director, department of animal husbandry, Udupi said: “To feed stray animals at 34 municipal wards, Rs 10,000 will be provided per day; Rs 600 will provided for 7 kg of rice and other essentials per day to feed animals in Kundapur, Karkala, Kaup taluks; Rs 400 for 4.5 kg rice and other items per day to feed animals in Saligrama town panchayat. All the gram panchayat to will also contribute Rs 300 everyday for the drive. “Veterinary officials of areas concerned have been asked to supervise the task. The programme will continue till April 14. Food and water is been placed in large trays and in buckets at a designated locations. The distribution work will be handled by the local bodies through civic staffs. Rice and other goods are purchased from ration shops and are cooked by Akshara Dasoha staff. We have already launched the drive in Udupi city, Karkala, Kundapur and Kaup area,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mangaluru/udupi-district-admin-to-feed-helpless-and-hungry-strays/articleshow/75071572.cms||---
April 10, 2020||Patna||State gets 19 new Covid cases in a single day, tally rises to 58||PATNA: Bihar recorded the highest number of Covid-19 positive cases in a single day with 19 fresh cases reported on Thursday, taking the total number of confirmed cases in the state to 58. Altogether 16 positive cases are from Siwan, of which eight members of a single family tested positive for Covid-19 on Thursday at the Rajendra Memorial Research Institute of Medical Sciences (RMRI), Patna. All eight patients are relatives of a man, who had returned from Oman on March 21, and tested positive on March 31. He was discharged on April 6. With the eight more members testing positive, the Siwan man’s family has now altogether 12 cases, which includes his wife (45) and daughter (22). Earlier on April 7, four member of this family tested positive for Covid-19. The sample of other eight members, including five women, were collected on April 7 and the results came on Thursday. The ninth coronavirus positive person from Siwan is a 36-year-old man, who had returned from Dubai on March 16. His family members have been home quarantined and a health department team would collect the samples of his family members. With this, Siwan has topped with maximum number of positive cases of 15 out of total 51 cases. Health department principal secretary Sanjay Kumar issued a statement around 9am that four women aged 26, 18, 12 and 29 were reported positive from a family in Siwan which has one male member of the family with travel history from Oman who recently tested positive for the virus. Kumar issued a second update around 11.30am that three female and two male members of the same family in Siwan have tested positive for the virus. In the third update around the same time, Sanjay said that two persons aged 15 and 18 years from Begusarai have also tested positive. The principal health secretary informed that his department was ascertaining their travel history. State nodal officer for Covid-19, Dr Ragini Mishra told this newspaper that all new cases are asymptomatic. According to health officials, total 5,040 samples were tested at four testing facilities in Bihar since March 22, of which 51 tested positive, 4,856 tested negative, results of 130 are awaited and three were rejected. So far, 17 patients got discharged from the hospitals.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/state-gets-19-new-covid-cases-in-a-single-day-tally-rises-to-58/articleshow/75071817.cms||Faryal Rumi
April 10, 2020||Ahmedabad||Gujarat: Serving Covid-19 patients within a month of marriage||AHMEDABAD: For Reshmabanu Mansuri, an emergency medical technician (EMT) with EMRI 108 ambulance, the day starts early. She, along with the ambulance pilot wait for any suspected cases of Covid-19 in western city parts. Her ambulance is designated as Covid-19 special that can’t ferry other patients. “We have to be careful in handling each patient. All could be potential positive cases,” says Mansuri, a native of Idar in Sabarkantha. She doesn’t give any hint that it’s not even a month that she has got married. EMRI officials said that it were just two days after her marriage in late March that she called up her supervisor and inquired if she could resume duties. “We hope to compensate her with the leaves soon,” said an official. Jashvant Prajapati, COO of EMRI in Gujarat, said that the staff of emergency services – encompassing 108 ambulances, 104 fever helpline and 1100 health helpline – currently form the backbone of Gujarat’s fight against Covid-19.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/serving-covid-19-patients-within-a-month-of-marriage/articleshow/75074135.cms||Parth Shastri
April 10, 2020||Madurai||Central prison inmates make over 34,000 masks in 2 weeks||Madurai: More than 34,000 masks which were manufactured by inmates of the Madurai Central Prison in the last two weeks were handed over to various government agencies such as the police and health departments. Ever since Covid-19 pandemic broke out, the demand for various precautionary materials like hand sanitisers, masks and disinfection products has increased. Recently, prisons department instructed various prisons in the state to take up making masks to meeting the demand. An official from the Madurai Central Prison said that out of 34,000 masks, 17,000 were sold at Rs 10 each to various government agencies. The prison has set a target of one lakh masks. Once the requirement of public institutions is met with, they will think of selling them for public use. He said that the work started on March 25 and since then around 40 inmates are working on the production. It includes 10 inmates from women’s prison on the same premises. They are employed in shift basis to manufacture around 2,000 to 3,000 masks a day. “These inmates had undergone tailoring training and were involved in cloth stitching works. With the demand for masks increasing, they have been asked to switch from cloth stitching to mask production,” he said. The required raw material is procured from a factory in Trichy. A mask is being sold for Rs 10. Just like various other works being carried out under prison bazaar scheme, a part of the income would go towards inmates’ income, the official added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/central-prison-inmates-make-over-34000-masks-in-2-weeks/articleshow/75074140.cms||---
April 10, 2020||Hyderabad||Surge in forest fires amid lockdown||Hyderabad: A series of forest fires that erupted in Amrabad and Kawal Tiger Reserves of Telangana in the last one week seem to have caused enormous damage to the environment and habitats of numerous animals and plants. According to the Forest Survey of India data, forest blocks of both the tiger reserves spread across Jannaram, Mancherial, Nirmal, Nagarkurnool, Kothagudem and Adilabad districts have witnessed a total of nine large forest fires in six days, from April 1 to April 6. The data acquired from the Forest Survey of India also revealed that there were a total of 29 large fires in forests across Telangana in the last one week. Wildlife conservationists say the tiger reserve, which is one of the biggest tiger habitats in the country, is home to countless species of birds, animals, insects and herbs, which are threatened due to unchecked fires every year. “The fires are most likely a result of lack of monitoring by forest staff and locals entering forests to cut trees illegally or encroach upon the forest land. There needs to be strict vigil in Kawal,” a wildlife conservationist said. While Amrabad forest officials were not available for a response, Jannaram Forest Divisional Officer S Madhav Rao said, “The fires in Jannaram division of Kawal have increased during the lockdown as people, especially those who were once habitual smugglers, seem to be entering into the forest and causing these fires.” “We have restricted their movement by increasing vigil. We have also set up fire lines for every 200 or 300 metres so that the fires are controlled even if our staff is not able to reach the spot soon. In our division, per day, we are receiving two to four fire alerts,” said Rao, adding that the highest number of fires were recorded between March 30 and April 1 this year.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/surge-in-forest-fires-amid-lockdown/articleshow/75073525.cms||Moulika.KV
April 10, 2020||Bhubaneswar||SHGs step up mask production||Angul: Some women from Dhenkanal villages have come forward to make face masks to combat the spread of coronavirus. Around 20 women of Gruhalaxmi Cooperative Self Help Group (SHG) from three villages of Nuagaon, Kurunti and Asanbani under Hindol block are engaged in making masks. Out of the 20,000 masks they plan to make in the first phase, they have already delivered 13,000. Once more raw material is arranged, which is getting delayed because of the lockdown, the women intend to increase production. The women are supplying the masks to local villagers and the rest will be purchased by Tata Steel BSL. The company is also distributing it to Anganwadi workers, health service providers, panchayat committee members of Kusupanga, Nuagaon, Sibapur, Mangalpur, Paikpuranakote of Dhenkanal and Nuahata panchayat of Angul district, who are engaged in various support services in villages like community kitchen, sanitation and other activities. President of the SHG, Sabita Nayak of Narendrapur village, said, “Now many people need masks. But it is not available in sufficient quantity. We wanted to help people by making masks with support from Tata Steel BSL. The CSR team of the company has given us tailoring training and is helping us now with raw material for making masks.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhubaneswar/shgs-step-up-mask-production/articleshow/75071592.cms||Jagadananda Pradhan
April 10, 2020||Agra||AMU to promote school students||Agra: Aligarh Muslim University (AMU) school administration has taken the decision to promote all students of classes I to VIII without examinations in view of the situation arising due to the lockdown. According to AMU officials, class IX and XI students will also be promoted based on their school assessments such as periodic tests and term exams, including assignments and project work, among other tasks conducted so far. Officials said that in case a student is unable to clear the internal process in any subject, the student will have to appear in a school-based test either online or offline. Thereafter, a decision will be taken regarding promotion. As far as rescheduling the board examinations for classes X and XII is concerned, the AMU Board will take a decision soon and announce the new schedule, director, DSE, Prof Asfar Ali Khan said. He added that the Controller of Examinations will declare the schedule considering the prevailing situation and directives of the government. A notice which was issued earlier stated, “It is further informed that the AMU Board will give a notice of about 10 days to all stakeholders before starting the Board examinations.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/agra/amu-to-promote-school-students/articleshow/75072722.cms||---
April 10, 2020||Jaipur||Procure Rabi crops through village co-op societies: BJP||Jaipur: The opposition BJP leaders have demanded that procurement of Rabi crops at the minimum support price (MSP) be carried out through the village cooperative societies instead of grain markets. BJP MP from Chittorgarh C P Joshi said, “opening the grain markets will lead to crowding and would defeat the idea of social distancing at this crucial juncture in the fight against coronavirus. Instead, we should procure rabi crops at MSP through the village cooperative societies. This would control the rush and the farmers would get the facility closer home”. The state government on Wednesday decided to open the grain markets in a phased manner for procurement of agricultural produce at MSP from April 15. According to the government, the procurement will take place at nearly 800 places in the state. Moreover, Joshi demanded waiver of water and electricity bills for the months of March and April which have been deferred by the government. “Instead of postponing the bills, they should be waived completely so that farmers and common citizens could get some relief in this time of acute crisis,” Joshi said. Former minister and BJP MLA from Chhabra, Pratap Singh Singhvi also echoed similar sentiments.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/procure-rabi-crops-through-village-co-op-societies-bjp/articleshow/75074139.cms||---
April 10, 2020||Bareilly||Procure entire wheat crop in country: Farmer panel to PM||Pilibhit: The All India Kisan Sangharsh Coordination Committee (AIKSCC), an umbrella organization of over 250 farmer unions across the country, has urged Prime Minister Narendra Modi to procure the entire wheat produced in the country this season in view of unprecedented crisis due to the novel coronavirus outbreak.The farmer organization has demanded that a minimum support price be fixed for fruits and vegetables as well. In a letter to the PM, national convener of AIKSCC VM Singh requested that the limit on wheat procurement targets be lifted.Giving the example of Uttar Pradesh, Singh said the state produces over 350 lakh metric tons (MT) of wheat every year while the state government has fixed the procurement target for the current season at a mere 55 lakh MT.Singh said despite the lockdown, farmers would have risk their lives to go out to the fields to harvest the wheat crop to feed the country. “The adequate availability of food grains at present crisis period is an outcome of farmers’ contribution towards country’s grain production. They consequently deserve the fullest protection of their legitimate interests, especially full minimum support price (MSP) for their wheat crop as well as certain incentives for their heroic work," Singh said.The AIKSCC leader urged the PM to get the wheat procured directly from farmers’ fields this year.Giving Telangana's example, he called for 100% purchase of wheat by states. The move would protect farmers from being exploited by private traders who offer low prices for their produce, he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/procure-entire-wheat-crop-in-country-farmer-panel-to-pm/articleshow/75072728.cms||---
April 10, 2020||Lucknow||Lucknow: Trauma Centre sits on tinder box, a day after no change on ground||LUCKNOW: A day after a fire sparked off panic at KGMU Trauma Centre amidst billowing smoke and flames, a TOI reality check found nothing much had changed on the ground. All five floors of Trauma Centre still had no functional fire alarms, sprinklers or fire hydrants, barring cosmetic display of extinguishers and sand buckets on every floor. On Thursday, entry and exit points at Trauma Centre were still not functional as per fire safety guidelines. A staircase and ramp stood out, but external emergency evacuation ramps and stairwells were missing. And shockingly, the building doesn't have adequate ventilation to prevent asphyxiation in event of patients getting trapped in smoke. Chief fire officer V K Singh confirmed TOI’s reality check. “Prima facie, we found automatic fire alarms, smoke detectors, sprinklers and hydrant systems dysfunctional at the time of fire,” Singh told TOI on Thursday. He said the fire safety department had recommended several measures to KGMU after the 2017 blaze. A probe is underway and a report will be submitted soon,” he said. Though the fire was put out in 30 minutes, Trauma Centre continues to sit on a tinder box and no lessons were learnt from the July 15, 2017 fire, when a high-powered probe committee set up in its aftermath directed KGMU to immediately put in place safety measures. Then KGMU admitted lapses and cited funds crunch. But, the fire safety system still remains defunct and the Wednesday night fire was again an eye-opener. Late Wednesday, a short circuit triggered a fire in the lobby adjacent to a lift on the second floor of Trauma Centre and soon spread to a waste pile below the false ceiling. Soon, smoke engulfed the entire floor. Thankfully, the fire remained confined to the waste dump and was quickly doused by fire tenders. In an uncanny rerun, the 2017 blaze broke out soon after Prof MLB Bhatt took charge as vice-chancellor and the second fire happened when his term is about to end.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/trauma-centre-sits-on-tinder-box-a-day-after-no-change-on-ground/articleshow/75074146.cms||Vivek Singh Chauhan
April 10, 2020||Jaipur||Give power at industry rates: Tourism bodies||Jaipur: Senior officials of the tourism department and representatives from various industry bodies on Thursday had deliberations through video conferencing on ways to revive the sector which has been badly hit. During the interaction, the stakeholders also proposed a revival package seeking exemption from fixed electricity charges. “The tourism sector has been given industry status, but the hospitality industry still pays for electricity at commercial rates. We also want exemption of fixed charges for at least one year,” said Atul Sharma, director of FICCI-Rajasthan, who was present during the deliberations. A senior official of the department said they would prepare a draft taking into view the proposals from all the industry bodies. “As and when the lockdown is lifted, we will submit the relief package proposal to the government.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/give-power-at-industry-rates-tourism-bodies/articleshow/75074147.cms||---
April 10, 2020||Agra||Agra: Medical staff say not enough PPE, masks, poor quality food given||AGRA: A 28-year-old-doctor and a 54-year-old ward boy working at the Covid-19 isolation ward of SN Medical College (SNMC) here tested positive for coronavirus on Thursday. Doctors and other staff on duty at the isolation ward say their lives are at risk as they are working under tough conditions because there is a shortage of personal protection equipment (PPE) -- especially hazmat suits -- N95 masks, gloves, goggles and respirators. Besides, the staff on duty are given substandard food wrapped in polythene. Medical staff claim they are given sub-standard food at the hospitalTalking to TOI, a resident doctor of SNMC said, “There is a severe shortage of PPE kits and masks. We have been raising the issue with the college administration since the past several days but things have not improved. Due to inadequate protection gear, a doctor and a ward boy got infected by Covid-19. All the staff members at the isolation ward are at risk. The PPE kits that were recently supplied are of poor quality.” A junior doctor said, “The number of coronavirus positive patients is increasing by the day. We urgently need 1,000 PPE kits and 2,000 N-95 masks.” The isolation ward at SNMC have a total staff strength of 16, including two senior doctors, four junior doctors, four nursing staff, three ward boys and three sanitation workers. Besides, the quarantine facility for suspected Covid-19 patients also have 15 to 17 employees on regular duty. A nursing staffer on duty at the isolation ward told TOI, “We are staying in the nursing school, and the food we get are of poor quality. We have lodged a complaint with the college administration in this regard several times, but nothing has been done to improve the condition. We are sleeping on infected beds that were brought from the TB and chest department. A lot needs to be done as far as cleanliness is concerned.” SNMC principal GK Aneja is on medical leave. Even after repeated calls, the acting principal, AK Arya, didn’t respond. District magistrate Prabhu N Singh said, “It is unfortunate that a doctor and a ward boy have been infected by coronavirus. If a demand from the college administration is made, the required fund for PPE kits and other safety equipment will be made available. In case of any inconvenience, heath staffers can directly contact me.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/agra/med-staff-say-not-enough-ppe-masks-poor-quality-food-given/articleshow/75072744.cms||Deepak Lavania
April 10, 2020||Jaipur||Highest single-day spike in coronavirus cases, Rajasthan total at 463||JAIPUR: In the highest single-day spike, 80 people tested positive for Covid-19 in the state on Thursday taking the total count of the infected persons to 463. According to the health department report issued on Thursday night, 39 persons tested positive in Jaipur while seven each cases were reported from Jhalawar, Jhunjhunu and Tonk. Five persons were diagnosed with Covid-19 in Jaisalmer, three cases in Jodhpur, two cases each from Kota and Banswara and one case each in Barmer and Bhilwara. Six cases were also reported from those evacuees who were airlifted from Iran and kept at the Army Wellness Centres in Jodhpur and Jaisalmer, said Rohit Kumar Singh, additional chief secretary (health). In Jodhpur, a 34-year-old doctor, who was involved in conducting door-to-door survey of Nagori Gate for screening of people for Covid-19, tested positive. In a single day, the city reported 39 cases from different parts. Eleven persons were found infected in Purani Basti, 12 from Ramganj, seven from Patang Bazaar, one each case from Raja Park, Ghat Gate, Nahari Ka Naka, Manak Chawk, Sunharon Ka Mohalla, Subhash Chawk, Thora Nalla and from Navi Mumbai linked to Tablighi Jamaat. The person, who belongs to Raja Park, was admitted to a private hospital on April 4 with complaints of influenza-like illness. His mother is also suffering from the symptoms of Covid-19. In Jhalawar, seven persons who returned from Indore, have been found infected with the virus. Among seven persons who tested positive for Covid-19 in Jhunjhunu, three are contacts of Covid-19 person linked to Tablighi Jamaat (TJ), two are directly linked to TJ, one person returned from Dubai and another from Qatar. Bhilwara also reported a case after five days. A 47-year-old teacher who came to the OPD of district hospital with complaints of fever, cough and sore throat has tested positive. Health department officials said he had no travel history and no contact history. In Kota, two persons found infected were in contact of a Covid-19 case. In Tonk, seven persons who tested positive are contacts of Covid-19 patients linked to Tablighi Jamaat. Banswara too reported two cases who were in contact with a Covid-19 positive case. Two persons from Barmer two persons and six evacuees from Iran who have been kept in isolation facilities at Army Wellness Centres in Jodhpur and Jaisalmer have also been found infected with the virus.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/highest-single-day-spike-in-virus-cases-raj-total-at-463/articleshow/75074156.cms||---
April 10, 2020||Thiruvananthapuram||Battle still on after 100 days of Covid||Thiruvananthapuram: 100 days after the first Covid-19 case was reported in the state when a student who returned from Wuhan reported positive for the disease, as many as 357 people have been confirmed infected till date of which 258 persons are currently under treatment. On Thursday, 12 new cases were reported, four from Kannur, four from Kasaragod, two from Malappuram, and one each from Kollam and Thiruvananthapuram. Of the 12 cases, all the 11 people contracted the disease after coming into contact with Covid-19 patients. One person who tested positive on Thursday for coronavirus had come from abroad. At the same time, as many as 13 persons tested negative for the virus-six from Ernakulam, three from Kannur, and two each from Idukki and Malappuram. The number of people who are under observation in the state have considerably come down. At present 1,36,195 persons are under surveillance, out of which 1,35,472 are under home isolation and 723 in designated isolation facilities. Thiruvananthapuram, Kollam, Idukki, Kottayam, Alappuzha and Ernakulam districts are witnessing considerable decline in the number of people under observation and in home quarantine. However, Malappuram, Kozhikode, Kannur, Wayanad and Kasaragod still have a considerable number of people under home quarantine. Kasaragod has the highest number of positive cases till date with 155 cases, of which 136 are admitted to various hospitals in the district. Chief minister Pinarayi Vijayan said though the number of those recovering is higher than those testing positive for the disease, it is not the time to let down one’s guard. “Careless attitude can create an emergency-like situation. Hence, we should continue social distancing and all the precautions followed all these days,” he said, adding that the risk of the disease spreading in the community still persists and hence people have to be very careful. The death of a person was reported in Kasaragod after he did not get timely treatment. The state government is now exploring the possibility of airlifting such critical patients to nearby hospitals in other districts to avoid such casualties. The chief minister said only those who test positive for the virus and health workers who are treating them need to wear N95 masks. Others can wear masks made of clothes, he said. The production of masks and sanitizers have picked up pace in the state. The Confederation of Indian Industry has been asked to support small scale units to begin their production, said the chief minister. To address the difficulties faced by patients who are not able to travel to the Regional Cancer Centre for treatment, the government has decided to provide basic treatment at local-level hospitals till the lockdown is over. Necessary instructions have been given to district and general hospitals.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/thiruvananthapuram/battle-still-on-after-100-days-of-covid/articleshow/75071612.cms||---
April 10, 2020||Hyderabad||Telangana: Arthritis patients face shortage of hydroxychloroquine||HYDERABAD: Arthritis and lupus patients are facing a shortage of hydroxychloroquine as stocks have been partially pulled from the drug stores in the state. Hydroxychloroquine is an antimalarial drug, and it is now believed to be working for Covid-19 patients due to which its demand has increased across the world. Drug Control Administration (DCA) director Preeti Meena on Thursday issued directions to all drug inspectors to ensure the drug is available in all pharmacies and should be given based on prescription. An official of DCA told TOI, “In some places, we took stocks of hydroxychloroquine from pharmacies and C&F agents to be supplied to Covid-19 hospitals like Gandhi Hospital. Doctors and medical staff are using the drug as prophylactic treatment.” “Covid-19 patients are also given the drug. We didn’t pull off the entire stock. Stocks are available at several pharmacies. More stocks are coming in as well,” the official added. The antimalarial drug hydroxychloqrouine is used in the treatment of the autoimmune disorder, lupus. N Bala Reddy, an arthritis patient told TOI, “I visited at least four to five pharmacies with my prescription, but the drug is not available anywhere.” Druggists in Miryalaguda and Nalgonda said that the drug inspectors had taken away the stocks from the drug stores. A drug official said, “We have given license to six more units in the state for manufacturing of the antimalarial drug. These formulations are looking for APIs active pharmaceutical ingredient). “I hope they will start operations soon. Big companies like Hetero and Optimus are also into API production,” the official added. Pharmaexcil, the export promotion council, had earlier asked the government to relax the ban on export of the drug.  Recently. Prime Minister Narendra Modi has relaxed the ban on the export of hydroxychloroquine.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/arthritis-patients-face-shortage-of-hydroxychloroquine/articleshow/75074181.cms||U Sudhakar Reddy
April 10, 2020||Nagpur||Hale & hearty, first city patient completes home quarantine too||Nagpur: First Covid-19 patient, a 45-year-old software professional from city, completed 14 days of home quarantine on Thursday. He has already spent a fortnight in isolation at hospital while undergoing treatment. He is now free to mingle with family-members and friends, of course, while following social distancing and lockdown rules. Sharing his experience over phone, he said pranayama and regular in-house exercises kept him fit during this period. “Doing yoga and pranayama along with simple exercises along with music kept me engaged. Being at home was a great feeling after spending two weeks in hospital,” he said. Interestingly, his 43-year-old wife, who was also found Covid-19 positive on March 13, has also recovered and discharged on March 29. She will complete 14-day home quarantine on April 11. “I will spend quality time with family-members now. I am also working on my book that will guide others on how to handle coronavirus,” he said. As per state government, 125 patients in Maharashtra have recovered and been sent home till date. Total 36,533 persons are in home quarantine at present. In Nagpur, four patients – all related to the first patient— have been discharged. More patients are on the way to discharge. Authorities at IGGMCH informed that a Khamla businessman who had tested positive on March 26 completed his 14 day isolation in hospital on Thursday. Reports of his second test conducted the same day are awaited. This patient may be discharged on Friday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/hale-hearty-first-city-patient-completes-home-quarantine-too/articleshow/75073547.cms||Chaitanya Deshpande
April 10, 2020||Rajkot||Gujarat: Bhajiya pe charcha in times of lockdown||By- Dilip Jiruka RAJKOT: Drive through interior roads in Amreli district and suddenly aroma of bhajiyas wafts through the air. There are no eateries or roadside stalls anywhere, but fragrance of piping hot pakodas emanates from nearby fields where youngsters are having ‘pakode pe charcha.’ With police strictly enforcing lockdown and booking people roaming on roads, many people, mostly those who have returned to their native villages from Surat, are finding fields safe havens for gossip over hot snacks. They carry all the ingredients like oil, besan (gram flour), vegetables and stove inside the remote fields and enjoy such parties. However, the aroma sometimes reaches the cops too. Amreli police have carried out raids on such bhajiya parties, the latest one on Wednesday night in Kachardi village near Damnagar in Lathi taluka. Five people were arrested and booked for violating the public notification. They were caught not by the smell of bhajiyas, but photographs of the party posted by one of them on Facebook. Amreli SP Nirlipt Rai has formed a special WhatsApp group requesting people to share information about those violating the lockdown. Someone posted this picture and Damnagar police traced them to Kachardi village. Those arrested were Rohit Rokad, Bhaktinandan Vasani, Tushar Rathod, Palak Vasani and Rohit Vasani. Barring, Bhaktinandan, who is a local, all others have returned from Surat. Rathod and Palak were employed as diamond polishers , but returned as the unit closed down. Last week police had raided a similar party inside a farm in Jira village near Savarkundla and arrested seven persons. These persons were also natives of Amreli, but settled in Surat.  Talking to TOI, SP Nirlipt Rai said, “We raided at least four such bhajiya parties, after the lockdown. We have popularized a WhatsApp number for people to inform us about violations by uploading pictures. We have registered more than 100 offences so far using people’s help.” According to the locals, these parties are an everyday affair in what is called as ‘kharapat’ area that includes talukas of Liliya, Lathi and half of Savarkundla. The only two crops sown here are gram and wheat. “Both the crops are harvested now. As a result, the youths there have no work left and the fields too are empty. They can’t move out of the houses due to lockdown and therefore gather in the fields,” said Chiraj Acharya, social worker, in Savarkundla. Along with bhajiyas, they also cook regular food, one of the regulars being curry of brinjal calyx with rotlas. On the other hand, other areas of the district, mangoes, groundnut, cumin, cotton and bajra (pearl millet) are yet to be harvested. “So the people there, including those who have come from Surat, are busy in the farms there and have no time to organize such get togethers,” said Kamal Nasit, a farmer from Abhrampara, which is close to Mitiyala sanctuary.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/bhajiya-pe-charcha-in-times-of-lockdown/articleshow/75073542.cms||---
April 10, 2020||Agra||Over 1,800 held for lockdown violation in Agra zone||Agra: People continue to flout lockdown even as the state registered rise in the number of infected individuals from novel coronavirus. In Agra zone alone, more than 1,800 people have been arrested since the lockdown came into effect. According to the police, till Wednesday evening, 957 FIRs had been lodged in eight districts of the Agra zone and a total of 1,867 arrested. Majority of the accused were booked under IPC’s section 188 (disobedience to order duly promulgated by public servant), 269 (negligent act likely to spread infection of disease dangerous to life), 270 (malignant act likely to spread infection of disease dangerous to life) and 271 (disobedience to quarantine rule) and section 3 of the Epidemic Diseases Act. Among the eight districts, Mathura reported the most number of 232 FIRs with 319 arrests, followed by Firozabad with 168 FIRs and 417 arrests. Aligarh reported 161 FIRs with 85 arrests, Hathras registered 130 FIRs and 360 arrests. While Agra registered 96 FIRs and 144 arrests, Mainpuri 78 FIRs and 297 arrests, Etah 71 FIRs and 173 arrests and Kasganj 21 FIRs and 72 arrests. Additional director general (Agra zone) Ajay Anand said, “The crackdown on such people has helped us maintain the lockdown effectively to contain the pandemic. However, majority of the apprehended men were released from police stations after filing personal bond, while others, who were engaged in public nuisance or misbehaved with policemen and prevented them from executing their duties, were sent to jail.” Meanwhile, Uttar Pradesh till Thursday recorded 12,236 FIRs against 39,857 people under Section 188 of IPC for violating the lockdown. “Another 78 cases were registered in connection with circulation of fake news related to covid-19,” said additional chief secretary (home) Avnish Awasthi.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/agra/over-1800-held-for-lockdown-violation-in-agra-zone/articleshow/75072767.cms||Arvind Chauhan
April 10, 2020||Bhubaneswar||‘No mask, no grocery’ reads Ganjam dist diktat||Berhampur: The Ganjam district administration has decided to get cracking against those stepping out of homes without wearing masks. On Thursday, the district administration ordered that those without masks will be denied essential commodities like groceries, medicines and vegetables. Following this directive, several shops and stores have put up warnings, with the message ‘no mask, no grocery’. While the state government has made it mandatory for people to wear masks every time they step outside, the Ganjam district had imposed it since last Monday and was penalizing violators. The district administration is collecting Rs 1,000 and Rs 500 as fine from people not wearing masks in urban and rural areas, respectively. “Despite the imposition of fine, we have seen that several people are still roaming around without masks. In order to make the action more stringent, we have instructed traders to deny essential commodities to such persons,” district collector Vijay Amruta Kulange said. The district administration has imposed fine on around 100 people in different areas, including Berhampur, for not wearing masks, sources said. “Collecting fine is not our aim. We want to create awareness among the people and ask them to take protective measures to contain Covid-19,” Kulange added. Traders in the Silk City, the biggest business centre in southern Odisha, welcomed the decision of the district administration. “We have been appealing to the buyers to wear masks and maintain social distancing when they come to buy essential items,” said Ch. Rabindranath, president of Odisha Byabasai Mahasangh. “Not just in Ganjam district, we have advised customers to maintain social distancing and to cover their faces while stepping out of their homes across the state,” said Rabindranath. “Now, that the state government has made it mandatory for people to wear masks, we have appealed to the government to impose the directive – ‘no mask, no essential service’ – across the state,” he added. Meanwhile in Angul, some women from Dhenkanal villages have come forward to make face masks to combat the spread of coronavirus. Around 20 women of Gruhalaxmi Cooperative Self Help Group (SHG) from three villages of Nuagaon, Kurunti and Asanbani under Hindol block are engaged in making masks. Out of the 20,000 masks they plan to make in the first phase, they have already delivered 13,000. Once more raw material is arranged, which is getting delayed because of the lockdown, the women intend to increase production. The women are supplying the masks to local villagers and the rest will be purchased by Tata Steel BSL. The company is also distributing it to Anganwadi workers, health service providers, panchayat committee members of Kusupanga, Nuagaon, Sibapur, Mangalpur, Paikpuranakote of Dhenkanal and Nuahata panchayat of Angul district, who are engaged in various support services in villages like community kitchen, sanitation and other activities. President of the SHG, Sabita Nayak of Narendrapur village, said, “Now many people need masks. But it is not available in sufficient quantity. We wanted to help people by making masks with support from Tata Steel BSL. The CSR team of the company has given us tailoring training and is helping us now with raw material for making masks.” (With inputs from Jagadananda Pradhan in Angul)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhubaneswar/no-mask-no-grocery-reads-ganjam-dist-diktat/articleshow/75071601.cms||---
April 10, 2020||Madurai||‘Not right to brand a service as essential ignoring chain’||Madurai: Logistics and supply chain management should be taken into consideration while branding a product or service as ‘essential’ as it could lead to disruption of the service during periods of lockdown, say experts.Milk, vegetables, fruits, grains, pulses and medicines are considered essential. Similarly, the health care system, police, sanitary workers and markets are designated as essential services. However, all these are part of a chain. Branding just one product in the chain as an essential commodity leads to the collapse of the entire chain as has happened in the case of milk in Madurai district recently.Madurai District Tiny and Small Scale Industries Association’s A K B Nawas Babu said that thousands of litres of milk had gone waste in the first week of the lockdown when tea stalls and hotels were closed. Subsequently, farmers found ways to distribute the milk to Aavin which has seen an increase in supply.Many of the small producers who procure milk from farmers usually send it to units like the one in Dindigul where unutilized milk can be ``spray dried’’ into milk powder. When the lockdown started, a dairy unit in Madurai sent 10,000 litres of milk to a unit in Dindigul to spray dry, but it went waste. Spray drying involves steaming from a boiler. The boiler needs firewood to work, but the unit in Dindigul had not been able to access firewood, as police had prevented the transport of firewood as it was not essential commodity.Many farmers say they are unable to bring their produce due to lack of trucks. Thangaraj of Cumbum says he fears his vehicle would break down, and hence does not take his produce to Madurai anymore.President of Tamil Nadu Foodgrain Merchants Association S P Jeyapragasam says that poor logistic management is a major problem they face during such lockdown times. “Tamil Nadu only produces paddy which will help it to meet 50% of its demand. For pulses we depend on the northern states,’’ he said. Many lorries had brought grains from the northern states, but the drivers were apprehensive of seemless movement, availability of food and access to a mechanic.”Logistics should be worked for the entire supply chain of these essential commodities’’ he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/not-right-to-brand-a-service-as-essential-ignoring-chain/articleshow/75074159.cms||---
April 10, 2020||Ahmedabad||Landlord attacked as tenants quarantined||Ahmedabad: A 33-year-old resident of Gomtipur, Sunil Parmar, has lodged a complaint at Gomtipur police station on Wednesday alleging that three persons Chirag Chavda, Bhavesh Kapadia and Anand Kapadia beat him up and then stoned his house, simply because his tenants were put under home quarantine. Parmar was seriously injured and needed ten stitches on the top of his left eye. According to the FIR, his tenants had gone to Nepal and were home quarantined on their return. AMC authorities pasted a red poster at the front of his house, which stated that the house’s inhabitants were quarantined. Parmar, who works as a security guard, stated that the accused used to frequently tell him to evict his quarantined tenants. On Tuesday night, the accused met him at the entrance of the society and started calling him “Coronavirus”. “He said he had not been quarantined but his tenants had. The accused then started abusing him and attacked him. Other residents of the area rescued him. When he was returning home, the accused pelted him with stones. One stone hit him above the left eye,” said inspector C B Tandel of Gomtipur police station.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/landlord-attacked-as-tenants-quarantined/articleshow/75074150.cms||---
April 10, 2020||Jodhpur||Covid-19 claims 76-year-old man in Jodhpur, 2nd in district||JAIPUR: Two persons died of Covid-19 in the state, taking the total toll to eight. While Jaipur’s Ramganj reported the first death, a 76-year-old person from Jodhpur died while undergoing treatment for Covid-19 in MDM hospital in Jodhpur on Thursday. A 65-year-old woman from Ramganj, who was admitted to Sawai Man Singh hospital on Wednesday with complaints of respiratory distress and pneumonia while while undergoing treatment on Thursday evening. Additional chief secretary (health) Rohit Kumar Singh said that she had hypertension as co-morbidity. She was put on ventilator support on Thursday morning, but she died in the evening in the hospital. However, in Jodhpur, a senior citizen died while undergoing treatment at MDM Hospital in Jodhpur at 12.30am. After his death, doctors collected his samples and sent it for Covid-19 test. At around 11am on Thursday, his report was released which showed that he had tested positive for the virus. The person had returned from Pune on March 21. SN Medical College immediately informed the district administration and chief medical health officer about the death of the person who tested positive after his death. “He was brought to the hospital by one of his neighbors at the cardiac emergency unit of MDM hospital. He died of cardiac arrest,” Dr GL Meena, principal and controller, SN Medical College told TOI. He was brought to the hospital with complaints of breathing difficulties at 10.30pm on Wednesday. The doctors at cardiac emergency spent two hours with him taking all possible measures but his conditioned continued to deteriorate and eventually he died at 12.30am“Even though he died, we suspected him as a Covid-19 case. We took his samples after his death and sent it to laboratory for tests which turned out to be positive,” said Dr Meena.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jodhpur/covid-19-claims-76-year-old-man-in-jodhpur-2nd-in-dist/articleshow/75075179.cms||---
April 10, 2020||Jaipur||Covid-19 claims 76-year-old man in Jodhpur, 2nd in district||JAIPUR: Two persons died of Covid-19 in the state, taking the total toll to eight. While Jaipur’s Ramganj reported the first death, a 76-year-old person from Jodhpur died while undergoing treatment for Covid-19 in MDM hospital in Jodhpur on Thursday. A 65-year-old woman from Ramganj, who was admitted to Sawai Man Singh hospital on Wednesday with complaints of respiratory distress and pneumonia while while undergoing treatment on Thursday evening. Additional chief secretary (health) Rohit Kumar Singh said that she had hypertension as co-morbidity. She was put on ventilator support on Thursday morning, but she died in the evening in the hospital. However, in Jodhpur, a senior citizen died while undergoing treatment at MDM Hospital in Jodhpur at 12.30am. After his death, doctors collected his samples and sent it for Covid-19 test. At around 11am on Thursday, his report was released which showed that he had tested positive for the virus. The person had returned from Pune on March 21. SN Medical College immediately informed the district administration and chief medical health officer about the death of the person who tested positive after his death. “He was brought to the hospital by one of his neighbors at the cardiac emergency unit of MDM hospital. He died of cardiac arrest,” Dr GL Meena, principal and controller, SN Medical College told TOI. He was brought to the hospital with complaints of breathing difficulties at 10.30pm on Wednesday. The doctors at cardiac emergency spent two hours with him taking all possible measures but his conditioned continued to deteriorate and eventually he died at 12.30am“Even though he died, we suspected him as a Covid-19 case. We took his samples after his death and sent it to laboratory for tests which turned out to be positive,” said Dr Meena.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/covid-19-claims-76-year-old-man-in-jodhpur-2nd-in-dist/articleshow/75074162.cms||---
April 10, 2020||Bareilly||Will seize your vehicles, Mbd traffic cops warn lockdown violators||Bareilly: With local administration imposing complete restriction on any vehicular movement, except those with curfew passes, in Moradabad from Thursday, traffic police has stepped up action against lockdown violaters. To ban unnecessary movement of people and vehicles, the traffic police has been directed to impound vehicles and take legal action against the violaters With the state government imposing complete lockdown across 15 districts to curb the coronavirus from spreading, the Moradabad administration on Thursday sealed three areas in Moradabad—Galshaheed, Mughalpura and Majhola. The areas were identified on the basis of the recent movement of Tablighi Jamaatis, said officials. Speaking with TOI, Moradabad superintendent of police (traffic) Satish Chandra said, “The district administration is on high alert and is taking every possible measure to combat the spread of novel coronavirus, Even as the lockdown has been enforced, there are people who continue to venture out for no specific reason. Till now, commuters spotted on the roads were being intercepted by police personnel and let off after a warning. Now, this won’t be tolerated any more. Directions have been issued to ensure 100% implementation of the lockdown, especially in the areas identified as coronavirus hot spots and sealed. Therefore, legal action will be initiated against anyone caught wandering about the streets, and their vehicles will be seized on the spot. Only those with a curfew pass will be allowed to move." The district administration has issued curfew passes to individuals associated with essential services such a newspaper hawkers, fruit/vegetable vendors and those delivering LPG cylinders, among others. SP (traffic) Chandra added, “Traffic policemen have been deputed across the city, including prominent areas and junctions, while a huge police force has been deployed in the areas identified as corona hot spots, to ensure proper compliance of rules.” ======||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/will-seize-your-vehicles-mbd-traffic-cops-warn-lockdown-violators/articleshow/75072773.cms||Maria Khan
April 10, 2020||Bhopal||Garbage collected from containment zones gets bio-medical waste tag||Bhopal: Everyday waste from the houses of COVID-19 suspected or diagnosed patients is being treated as bio-medical waste by the Bhopal Municipal Corporation (BMC). The waste from these locations collected separately and disposed of like any other bio-medical waste, according to BMC additional commissioner, Rajesh Rathod, here on Thursday.Garbage from the residences of around 450 people who are under home isolation or have tested positive is being treated as bio-medical waste. In extreme cases, the waste collection is from a biomedical waste remediation agency. In other cases, the BMC tracks and collects the waste as per protocol. A designated team with protective gear is operational, Rathod added.A three-tier arrangement of corona-related biomedical waste disposal has been formulated by the state government. “There has been an unprecedented increase in the use of masks and other devices used by citizens in large numbers and PPE kits used by the staff of the health department during the corona infection and the biomedical waste used to treat patients,” said an official. The urban development and housing department has made a three-tier arrangement for waste disposal in various places. Under the first system of waste disposal, disposal of PPE kits and medical waste used in hospitals and sample collection centres will be ensured through incineration. The second category consists of safety garments, masks, gloves, tubes, syringes, medicines and other items used in home quarantine and quarantine locations separately in yellow bags and separated from such houses / places by means of vehicle. The person conducting the incineration facility will be handed over the waste for incineration. The remaining waste will be disposed of like household waste. Masks, gloves and other equipment used by the general (corona unaffected) citizens in the third category will be collected separately in a garbage collection vehicle and disposed of as per the Solid Waste Management Rules, 2016.There is no provision for incineration in the urban bodies of the state. They will ensure disposal of biomedical waste by contracting at a fixed price at the places / bodies / hospitals nearby where this arrangement exists. Instructions have been given to inform the citizens about this system through the public system in the cleanliness app and door-to-door collection vehicles.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/garbage-collected-from-containment-zones-gets-bio-medical-waste-tag/articleshow/75073564.cms||---
April 10, 2020||Lucknow||UP CM to fire officials: Conduct safety checks on war footing||LUCKNOW: Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath on Thursday directed the fire department to conduct fire safety checks at all medical colleges, government and private hospitals taken over for covid-19 operations and swiftly submit a report. The fire department was also told to sanitize mandi parishad offices in districts with sodium hypochlorite solution. The disinfectant will, however, not be used on humans, animal and eatables. DG fire services R K Vishwakarma said chief fire officers in all districts have been asked to conduct an inspection of hospitals in their respective area and submit reports on a war footing. “We will check fire safety devices, alarms, smoke detectors, ventilation, public address system and emergency exit and put in place an evacuation plan for patients,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/cm-to-fire-officials-conduct-safety-checks-on-war-footing/articleshow/75074163.cms||---
April 10, 2020||Pune||Seldom appreciated, but this man in Pune works behind the scenes tirelessly||PUNE: Santosh Solanki (44), a ward assistant at the Naidu Infectious Diseases Hospital here, has witnessed first-hand the outbreak of major diseases that hit the city in the recent past. During the swine-flu outbreak in Pune, Solanki was one of the many faceless staffers who worked tirelessly from morning till late at night. Even when the first Covid-19 patients were wheeled in to the Naidu hospital ward, Solanki was on duty as a ward assistant. While doctors and nurses are often recognised for their work, seldom are ward assistants or orderlies given any credit. Yet, Solanki has no regrets. His mother was a cleaning staff at the hospital, so was his grandmother. "There are times when we are treatly badly by patients or their family members, but I have no regrets. Rich or poor, we are all humans. The disease doesn’t discriminate. We know that they are under tremendous stress. So, we always respond to all patients politely," he said. Solanki is aware of the possibility of catching infection from Covid-19 patients. So, he has sent both his school-going children to his in-law's place in a village near Daund. "My wife is a nurse. She used to work at the Naidu hospital, but has recently been posted to another government hospital. I have asked her to stay away from me too. She has put up at a place close to the hospital where she works. I stay in my quarters near the Naidu hospital with my mother and sister. I can’t send them anywhere," he said. Currently, all wards assistants at the hospital work in three shifts of 8 hours each but they are mentally prepared to stay longer if more patients are wheeled in. "During the swine-flu outbreak, too, we had to work for 10-12 hours a day. The doctors have already told us that if there is a spike in the number of cases, we may have to work for more hours. If doctors and nurses can put in longer hours then why can’t we do the same for patients, the hospital and the society," said Solanki. But despite the work that keeps him on his toes throughout the day, he misses his children once he returns home. "I call them the moment I reach home and hearing their voice makes all my tiredness go away. I don’t mind working late or working under stress but staying away from loved ones is the hardest thing. I hope the disease will go away soon and I will be able to live with my wife and children," he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/seldom-appreciated-but-this-man-works-behind-the-scenes-tirelessly/articleshow/75074174.cms||Ardhra Nair
April 10, 2020||Bareilly||Lone hotspot Subhash Nagar to be sealed||Bareilly: Subhash Nagar area, which was identified as the lone hotspot in Bareilly, has been sealed. The district administration released the name and contact number of vendors who will deliver vegetables and fruits at doorsteps of the residents living in Subhash Nagar area. Meanwhile, the health department has been conducting active-case surveillance in the locality to identify people showing symptoms of novel coronavirus. On Thursday, 14 teams screened 1,773 houses and found two suspected cases, whose samples will be collected for the Covid-19 test. Six members of a family were tested positive for novel coronavirus in Subhash Nagar. Of them, a 34-year-old man and his wife were tested negative in the second report.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/lone-hotspot-subhash-nagar-to-be-sealed/articleshow/75072791.cms||Priyangi Agarwal
April 10, 2020||Mangaluru||Activists have tough time feeding stray animals||Mangaluru: Many animal lovers, especially those involved in feeding the strays, rushed for passes after the restrictions on the movement of private vehicles. A few others approached MLA Vedavyas Kamath for help. Suma Nayak, trustee of Animal Care Trust, Shaktinagar, said: “As community feeders, we had applied for 37 passes under food volunteer category. The administration has issued only eight passes. We assure to follow all prescribed rules set by the administration. The administration can issue passes only after verifying our credentials. We have approached the local MLA for help and he has assured to look into the issue,” she said. Tauseef Ahmed, founder, Mr Rescuer, said he went to the assistant commissioner’s office for two days to get a pass, but in vain. “On Friday, despite getting calls for the rescue of a mother dog and her four puppies from an unused well, I could not go, but guided the caller over the phone. With markets and hotels closed, most animals are not finding sufficient food due to which there is a rise in dog attack cases and injuries,” he said. Tauseef said the lockdown has brought down animal accident cases, but instances of dehydration, especially among birds, is increasing. He said he has stock of dog food, but delivering them is a challenge. On Friday, police intercepted and questioned a few activists who stepped out in their private vehicles to feed stray dogs and cats. ACP (traffic) Manjunath Shetty said that the activists will be allowed to feed animals from 5.30am-6.30am and 5.30pm-6.30pm.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mangaluru/activists-have-tough-time-feeding-stray-animals/articleshow/75071626.cms||Deepthi Sanjiv
April 10, 2020||Lucknow||Kanika Kapoor to be quizzed after quarantine period is over: Lucknow police||LUCKNOW: Singer Kanika Kapoor will be questioned by Lucknow police after her quarantine period ends. After recovering from Covid-19, she was discharged from SGPGI on April 6 with advice to remain in self-isolation for 14 more days. “The singer will be interrogated after her quarantine period ends on April 20,” said assistant commissioner of police, Krishnanagar, Deepak Kumar Singh on Thursday. Kanika had landed in Mumbai from UK on March 8. She was advised to stay in self-isolation for 14 days because of foreign travel, but she came to Lucknow on March 11 and moved around, participating in functions and hosting parties. After she tested positive on March 20, Lucknow chief medical officer Narendra Kumar Agarwal had lodged an FIR against her under charges of negligence that could spread infection dangerous to life and disobedience of government order. However, all those including politicians she had met had tested negative later. “We will question her about her medical screening at Mumbai airport and whether a stamp was put or not after examination there. She will also be asked if she was aware of the coronavirus threat and what precautions she took, besides why she attended functions despite cough and fever,” said Singh. Lucknow police have also written to Mumbai police commissioner seeking details of Kanika’s screening at the international airport and places she visited and stayed in Mumbai.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/kanika-to-be-quizzed-after-quarantine-period-is-over/articleshow/75074173.cms||---
April 10, 2020||Dehradun||Uttrakhand: 1,481 members of Tablighi Jamaat tracked till now||DEHRADUN: A pharmacist involved in collecting samples of Covid-19 patients was quarantined at Govt Doon Medical College Hospital (GDMCH) early on Thursday after he complained of mild cough and fever. His samples were sent for testing along with the samples of doctors at GDMCH who have been treating Covid-19-positive patients. Dr NS Khatri, nodal officer of GDMCH, confirmed that the pharmacist, who was heading the swab sample collection in Dehradun has been admitted to the hospital. Meanwhile, no new novel coronavirus cases were reported in Uttarakhand on Thursday. In a briefing, the health department said that along with police, they have managed to track 1,481 members of Tablighi Jamaat till now. Riddhim Agarwal, who heads the Covid-19 taskforce, said, “We got information that 1,493 members from Tablighi Jamaat have visited Uttarakahnd since January 1, 2020. We were tracking all of them and managed to get information of around 1,481 and 464 people who came in the contact of Jamaat members.” Director of national health mission (NHM) Yugal Kishore Pant added that the state has conducted 1,531 tests so far among which, 35 were Covid-19 positive, 1,235 were negative and reports of 261 people are awaited. “Of the 35 cases, 24 are members of Tablighi Jamaat and four are their contacts,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/1481-members-of-tablighi-jamaat-tracked-till-now/articleshow/75072782.cms||Ishita Mishra
April 10, 2020||Delhi||Operation shield: Stay in, stay safe||NEW DELHI: With the number of Covid-19-positive cases rising to 720, Delhi government on Thursday launched “Operation Shield” to take on the virus in the 23 containment zones created in different parts of the capital. In the wake of the assault on two women doctors of Safdarjung Hospital, chief minister Arvind Kejriwal warned of strict action against anyone misbehaving with healthcare professionals. “We have begun Operation Shield in containment areas. Shield stands for sealing of the immediate area/surroundings after geographical marking, home quarantine of all the people living in the area, isolation and tracing of people who have been the first and second contacts, essential supplies involving doorstep delivery of essential items, local sanitisation and disinfection, and door-to-door checking,” Kejriwal said, while seeking cooperation from people to check the spread of novel coronavirus. Talking about glitches reported in the distribution of ration among non-ration card holders, the chief minister said, “We are providing free ration to 71 lakh beneficiaries with ration cards. Since the system to provide rations to non-public distribution system beneficiaries was developed swiftly, some glitches need to be fixed.” Free ration was distributed at 174 schools to 46,270 non-PDS beneficiaries who were provided e-cards for the purpose. Each person was provided 4kg wheat and 1kg rice. Kejriwal reiterated his appeal to people to stay inside, wear masks and practise social distancing to protect themselves from Covid-19. “Based on the experiences of other countries, we have issued orders that everyone stepping out of their homes should wear masks. If you do not have a mask, you can use a clean cloth or a handkerchief to cover your nose and mouth so that you are not infected. I understand that this lockdown is a difficult time for all, but it is necessary for our own good,” he added. Since no economic activities are taking place due to the lockdown, the tax collection of the government has virtually stopped. “In view of this, we have decided that except the coronavirus expenses and other related provisions, such as free rations and food, no other expenditure will be incurred on behalf of the government. All government departments have been instructed to stop all expenses other than salaries,” Kejriwal said. The government said any other expenditure will be incurred only with the permission of the finance department. “I want to congratulate all officials, teachers, principals, civil defense volunteers etc. who are successfully distributing ration to non-ration card holders. When we decided, it was such a herculean task. We weren’t sure we would be able to do it. But our team pulled it off. God is with us,” Kejriwal tweeted.  The assault on women doctors was discussed in a meeting between the CM, lieutenant governor Anil Baijal and officials. It was decided that any person who engages in such activities will be given the strictest punishment possible. “I’m glad that the man who assaulted the doctors has been arrested,” said Kejriwal.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/operation-shield-stay-in-stay-safe/articleshow/75074190.cms||AlokKNMishra
April 10, 2020||Jaipur||NGOs want ban on tobacco, spitting in public||Jaipur: As spitting in public places increases the risk of Covid-19, the civil society organisations have called for a complete ban on the distribution, sale and consumption of smokeless tobacco products as well as spitting in the open. In a letter to the chief minister and health minister, the organisations have demanded to issue a notification to strictly prohibit the sale and use of tobacco products and spitting in public places. Rakesh Gupta, president, Rajasthan Cancer Foundation, says, “Based on the studies done in the past on lung infections, both bacterial and viral, indicate that smokers will have higher risk of Corona induced pneumonia, although it can’t be said to what extent. Also, the use of chewable tobacco and hukka bars must be stopped with immediate effect in the state”. In the wake of Covid-19 pandemic, Haryana, Uttar Pradesh, Thane in Maharashtra, Dumka district in Jharkhand and Chandigarh have already banned use and sale of tobacco products and spitting in public places, the societies claim. The Ministry of Health and Family Welfare has also issued an appeal to the general public to refrain from consuming smokeless tobacco products and spitting in public places during the Covid-19 pandemic. “To contain the spread of coronavirus (Covid-19) and other infectious diseases dangerous to life, it is necessary in the interest of public health to prohibit spitting of tobacco, pan masala, etc., in public places and public service vehicles, thus, contributing towards the ‘Nirogi Rajasthan’ campaign,” said a social worker. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/ngos-want-ban-on-tobacco-spitting-in-public/articleshow/75074180.cms||---
April 10, 2020||Madurai||Corpn uses drone to disinfect hosp building||Madurai: As part of the Covid-19 preventive measures being carried out in Madurai, a drone was used to disinfect Government Rajaji Hospital (GRH) building on Thursday. At present, 31 Covid-19 patients from Madurai and Virudhunagar districts are undergoing treatment in the hospital. The drone,which carry 10 litres of disinfectant, was used for thoroughly disinfecting the GRH building. The disinfection was carried out by Madurai Corporation workers in the presence of corporation commissioner S Visakan. “Drones are mainly used when other spraying equipment are unsuitable or if there is a danger of exposure. This particular drone, with GPRS control, can be operated from a distance of 3km,” said Ranjit Kumar, a drone operator. “At first we tried making use of drones designed for photography and filming, which could only carry a payload up to 1kg. We came up with these drones suited for disinfection purposes,” said Ranjit Kumar.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/corpn-uses-drone-to-disinfect-hosp-building/articleshow/75074179.cms||---
April 10, 2020||Kochi||Uber driver, who contracted virus, recovers||Kochi: The Uber driver who is believed to have contacted Covid-19 from a man considered to be the first person to die of the virus in the state on Thursday walked out of Kalamassery medical college after recovering from the disease. When Latheesh T L picked up a passenger, Yakoob Sait, from Kochi international airport for dropping him at Chullikkal on March 16, it was nothing more than a regular cab drop for him. Four days later, he developed a fever and treated it the normal way but on March 23 he got a call from health department officials in Ernakulam.  They traced him after Sait tested positive for Covid-19 on March 22. "I reported for a swab test on March 23 and was asked to go on quarantine. On March 25, a day after Sait's wife too tested positive he again got a call. "I still had fever and my stomach was paining. So, I decided to get admitted," he said. “The facilities at Kalamassery medical college were excellent. The food was great and the most comforting factor was that doctors and nurses would frequently check on you,” said Latheesh, who hails from Vallarpadam.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/uber-driver-who-contracted-virus-recovers/articleshow/75071658.cms||---
April 10, 2020||Dehradun||3 more Jamaatis booked under attempt to murder charges in Haridwar||DEHRADUN: Three more people have been booked under section 307 (attempt to murder) of Indian Penal Code (IPC) for hiding their travel history, misleading authorities and putting lives of others at risk. According to police, two of them are members of Tablighi Jamaat and had returned to their home in Jwalapur in Haridwar district on March 26 after attending a Jamaat in Meerut. The third accused is the mother of one of the two jamaatis and has been accused of helping her son to escape questioning by authorities, Ashok Kumar, director general (DG) law and order, told TOI. To recall, on April 7, two Jamaatis were booked on similar charges for hiding their participation in a jamaat in Alwar in Rajasthan. Both were also from Haridwar district. The state government had taken a strong position against jamaatis following a deadline given by DGP Anil Raturi, asking them to show up before the police, health and district authorities or face stern action. Following the warning, as many as 180 people, including Jamaat returnees and their contacts from Haridwar, Dehradun, Pauri and Nainital district appeared before the authorities. All have been put under quarantine. Meanwhile, police have filed cases against 44 people for spreading rumors about Covid-19, while over 4,600 people have been arrested for defying lockdown orders in the state till date.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/3-more-jamaatis-booked-under-attempt-to-murder-charges-in-haridwar/articleshow/75072794.cms||Gaurav Talwar
April 10, 2020||Vadodara||Four held near graveyard in Dahod||Vadodara: Four persons were detained by Dahod police after they came to a graveyard in the town to offer flowers on Thursday. They were a part of a larger group that had assembled near the graveyard. Officials of Dahod town police had spotted the group after they learned about a large group having gathered near the graveyard located behind the telephone exchange in the town. Policemen rushed to the spot. The group spotted the policemen and some of them escaped. However, policemen managed to nab four of them. It came to light that the group had assembled there to offer flowers on graves and pray there. On Tuesday, a family from Indore had come for burial of a man at the same graveyard. It was quarantined in the wake of the serious Covid-19 condition in Indore and tests revealed that a girl from the group had Covid-19. The girl was rushed to Vadodara for treatment.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/four-held-near-graveyard-in-dahod/articleshow/75071381.cms||---
April 10, 2020||Jaipur||Rajasthan: Man drinks sanitiser thinking it’s booze||JAIPUR: Cases of people drinking sanitisers manufactured by state-owned Rajasthan State Ganganagar Sugar Mills (GSM) Limited are increasing in the state as the bottles and the smell are strikingly similar to countrymade liquor. After an incident in Banswara, a man in Sikar had to be treated in the district hospital after he drank the sanitiser on Wednesday night. Though the government has issued advisories asking people not to drink sanitisers, the efefct has been minimal. Nurse Mool Singh Tanwar said Vijay Mandawara was brought to the hospital after he drank bottle of sanitiser. “After drinking, he started vomiting. We administered drips and medicine and observed him till he became normal. If the quantity of sanitiser was more, his condition would have been serious,” said Tanwar. Jaipur Municipal Corporation (JMC) has already issued a warning to its workers not to confuse the sanitisers with liquor.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/man-drinks-sanitiser-thinking-its-booze/articleshow/75074178.cms||---
April 10, 2020||Meerut||Birders on the wing as lockdown cedes city back to nature||Meerut: As Covid-19 scare forces humans retreat to the safety of their homes, hundreds of birds have begun thronging cities and filling up silence with mellifluous callings as breeding season kicks off that prompts egg-laying. There cannot be a better opportunity to capture mating-oriented colour-enhanced birds in the camera, feel city’s birdwatchers. They share their experiences from within the confines of their homes while clicking flying visitors, some of whom have perched on their windows after decades. “This is for the first time that I heard the call of a peafowl. Recently, I saw a painted stork and a flock of four black ibis fly over my house,” says ornithologist Rajat Bhargava. Surgeon Dr Joseph Zaidi, who is an avid birdwatcher, said, “I live in cantonment which already has a green cover but there is a noticeable increase in the number of birds visited the area. There are birds all around. No sound, no human activity, no vehicles and no pollution – what can be more salubrious? After years, I saw a grey francolin and white-breasted water hen. Hornbills are abundant.”Interestingly, this is the time of the year when birds pair and breed. With minimal human activity in the city areas, they are flamboyantly displaying love signs to seek mates. “For the first time I saw a mating sequence of the rufous treepie right near my doorstep,” says an upbeat Bhargava. Nischint Nehra, a businessman, said, “It’s so thrilling to see so many peacocks in our vicinity. It seems we are living in a forest with birds chirping throughout the day.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/meerut/birders-on-the-wing-as-lockdown-cedes-city-back-to-nature/articleshow/75072797.cms||Sandeep Rai
April 10, 2020||Madurai||Counselling helplines remain underutilized||Madurai: From anxiety over contracting Covid-19 to domestic issues with spouses and children, many helplines have been offering a lot of psychological support through counselling over phone. However, organisations running helplines say that there is still little awareness among people about the availability of helplines and mental health during lockdown. The Tamil Nadu Association of Clinical Psychologists (TNACP) has introduced helplines for every district across the state just for dealing with the lockdown. Around 70 psychologists from across the state, including Madurai, are answering calls. “We offer only temporary support but it is still very important now. Depending on the case, psychologists provide supportive psychotherapy, a way for ventilation and reassurance. Many people are dealing with stress and anxiety every single day,” said Dr N Suresh Kumar, secretary, TNACP. He himself is one among the clinical psychologists answering the TNACP helpline calls. All over the state, the TNACP helplines got around 100 calls since they began the service. The TNACP’s Madurai helpline numbers are 9715122666/8870042844/9620387097/9994318980. In Madurai district alone, there have been around 15 calls so far. “Some callers are anxious over contracting or having contracted Covid-19. Being confined to their homes has made many people, including children restless. In one case, I had to counsel a teen who became aggressive after parents not allowing him to go outside. Family and parenting issues are common among callers. We get a lot of calls from women too since they face the most burden in this situation,” said Dr Suresh Kumar. He further said that some callers were also speaking about being disturbed by alcohol withdrawal symptoms. The Justice Shivaraj V Patil Foundation for social legal studies and development along with Fatima College and ActionAid in Madurai are also providing free counselling for women during the lockdown period. Their helpline numbers are 9843460061/9894611838/ 9524318207. “We are getting calls from mainly those who returned from abroad and are under home quarantine. Domestic and parenting issues are common. But, the number of calls is still less since many, especially people from rural areas are still unaware of such helplines. So, we decided to reach out to women in garment industry who we are already working with and provide psychological support via phone calls,” said advocate Selva Gomathi, managing trustee, Justice Shivaraj V Patil Foundation.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/counselling-helplines-remain-underutilized/articleshow/75074175.cms||Sukshma Ramakrishnan
April 10, 2020||Bhopal||Residents struggle for groceries as govt’s delivery scheme flops||BHOPAL: Two weeks into the lockdown, people in the city are now desperate, particularly after grocery shops were closed down after orders for complete lockdown. Reason: The administration’s plan to reach out to their homes with essentials they order online is not working out despite attempts being made by the team working under food safety officer, D K Verma. “We have the phone numbers and names of stores, where we can book our orders, but a majority of them don’t seem to have the stocks. D Mart, Ondoor, all show “no slot” when we contact them for booking our order. Interestingly there is “no slot” available till April 15, a day after the expiry of the lockdown period,” said Gyan Prakash Mishra, a Shivaji Nagar resident. He added: “There is another problem. Even stores, which have stock, refuse to deliver goods at home if you are living in one of the ‘containment areas’. It’s the people, who are living in containment areas, who need the home delivery system more than anyone else. But when I told one of the shops, which had agreed to send me the goods I ordered that I live in the ‘containment area’ in Shivaji Nagar, he refused to deliver.” Interestingly, the day the district administration decided to sell packets of groceries from 103 Sanchi parlours across the city, milk supply itself was affected. A lot of people asking for milk packets at Sanchi parlours could not get the stuff. They had to go to a private dairy to get milk. “We receive milk at home. But when milk packets were not delivered today, I went out to buy milk packets, but at both the Sanchi parlours adjacent to my house, no milk was available. Then I went to a private dairy, where I got the milk,” said a resident of a society in Kolar. Following a meeting held to review the supply of essential goods through home delivery mechanism presided over by the divisional commissioner, the district administration had announced that in addition to home delivery from stores already designated by the administration, grocery kits worth Rs 300, Rs 500 and Rs 700 would be sold from the Sanchi parlours. The packets will have wheat flour (aata), sugar, tea packs, oil and spices and it would be sold at reasonable prices from Sanchi booths. The grocery kits would even be sold door-to-door from BMC vans or loading autos of traders, it was stated. However, nothing of this kind seemed to be happening on Thursday. It was also decided in the meeting that home delivery of goods from designated stores and chain of supermarkets would be doubled from Thursday. Food safety officer, D K Verma, said “Now that we have authorized Sanchi booths to sell grocery, people will not have a problem. They can purchase essentials as they buy milk packets”, he said. When told that Sanchi milk parlours didn’t have grocery kits for sale on Thursday, he said “Decision to this effect has been taken yesterday only. They are asking us whether they are authorised to sell grocery, we are telling them “yes”. By tomorrow, you will have grocery kits for sale at Sanchi booths,” he said. On home delivery, he said “no slot” indicates that there are so many orders with the store already that if you want delivery of your order today, it can’t be done. “Everyone wants his order to be delivered soon but any store’s stock list is showing “no slot” on downloading, please ask for supply the next day,” he said. Verma reiterated that people should only book essential things for delivery and in reasonable quantity.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/residents-struggle-for-groceries-as-govts-delivery-scheme-flops/articleshow/75073592.cms||---
April 10, 2020||Bareilly||Tablighi Jamaat participant quarantined in Moradabad||Bareilly: A Moradabad resident, who had attended the Tablighi Jamaat Markaz in Delhi, was quarantined in the district hospital on Thursday. His sample has been sent to Meerut’s LLRM Hospital to check Covid-19 symptoms. Notably, the man is the head of Moradabad unit of Tablighi Jamaat. Police said the man was found hiding in Lajpatnagar locality, which comes under the Katghar police station limits. Speaking to TOI, SHO, Katghar police station, Devesh Singh, said “The local administration had informed us that a person, who recently attended the Delhi Markaz, was hiding in Lajpatnagar, after which a team of police officers and health officials reached the spot and lifted him to the district hospital on Wednesday night.” Notably, a part of Katghar police station area is among the four spots which were sealed on Wednesday night following the state government orders. The other areas which have been sealed include Nagfani, Galshaheed and Mugalpura. Notably, 13 Jamaat followers had been staying at 10 mosques in Mugalpura area, in which five, who are Rampur residents, were tested Covid-19 positive. These followers had reached Moradabad from Haldwani on February 23 and stayed at Pakki Sarai Markaz in Galshaheed. Police said they visited Nalvali mosque on March 5 and stayed at Dhobionvali mosque on March 6 and 7. Police said these followers later visited Bagh Azad mosque in Majhola, Aysha mosque and Mahal Sarai in Mugalpura also. On March 31, two of them returned to Haldwani while five went to Rampur. After five Jamaat followers tested positive in Rampur, administration came into action and district magistrate RK Sing held a meeting with SSP Amit Pathak and other officials to plan strategy.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/tablighi-jamaat-participant-quarantined-in-moradabad/articleshow/75072812.cms||Pankul Sharma
April 10, 2020||Lucknow||Daily items out of bounds, Lucknow residents have a tough day||LUCKNOW: More than one lakh people living in 12 hotspots in the city sealed by the administration to check Covid-19 outbreak struggled for daily essentials as all shops, including pharmacies and grocery, remained closed on the first day of strict isolation on Thursday. The district administration said that help was provided on demand in some localities and assured that a proper system of home delivery of all the essentials will be in place from Friday. An area-wise list of select suppliers of grocery, vegetables, fruits, dairy products and medicine with phone numbers was released on Thursday night. People can call on these numbers for home delivery till the lockdown lasts. Lucknow divisional commissioner Mukesh Meshram said, “Police teams visited the sealed hotspots and formed WhatsApp groups of locals. Police officials and local representative are also in the groups. People can post their requirements in the WhatsApp groups for help.” People can also call at UP 112 in case of any emergency, including medical, till the lockdown lasts, he added. However, the announcement came after a tough day. Rahul Kumar (29), a resident of Alamnagar, said he did get clean drinking water. “I use mineral water at home. In the morning, when I called up the vendor for supplies, he refused delivery citing sealing,” he said. Rashid Khan, a Munshipulia resident, said though on the first day people mostly felt pinch of not getting daily supply of milk and bread, the problem may compound if the situation continued. “Some people in my locality had run out of ration and the supermarket where they had placed order refused to deliver. We then gave ration from our homes while maintaining social distance,” he said. Ashalata Singh (59), a lecturer and Indiranagar resident, said, “We stockpiled grocery on Wednesday evening but only worry is daily supply of milk and vegetables, besides medicine in case of emergency.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/daily-items-out-of-bounds-residents-have-a-tough-day/articleshow/75074189.cms||Rahul Tripathi
April 10, 2020||Chennai||How the reality of employee rights crippled workforce||Chennai: In the evening of March 24, when the national lockdown was announced, all that Pandiya Rajan and 30 other Tamil youths employed in Maharashtra’s Jalna district could think of was a way to return to their homes in Madurai and its neighbouring districts in Tamil Nadu. In Coimbatore at a garment unit, 30-year-old Rajendra Kumar Mohanty, a worker from Odisha, along with 100 other daily wage workers, were growing restless desperate to return to their homes. "I want to go home," said Rajan over the phone. Though stranded hundreds of miles apart, Mohanty and Rajan echoed the emotion of hundreds of daily wage guest workers across the country. For them their workplace was only about the wages but no other perks. With no guarantee for basic amenities, food and accomodation, the 21-day lockdown meant the workplace offered them no security. Things would be different, if the government had assured migrant labourers of their rights and made employers accountable for the welfare of their employees, particularly the intra and inter-state labourers, said trade unions and labour activists. Accomodation, food and medical facilities, are the basic facilities that employers need to ensure for staff according to the Inter-State Migrant Workmen Act and the Building and Other Construction Workmen Act. But few follow it. "If the Inter-State Migrant Workmen Act and the rules of the respective state are enforced firmly it would have encouraged labourers to stay back at their workplaces rather than hurry back home," Coimbatore district secretary of CITU C Krishnamurthy. "The exodus of hundreds and thousands of workers has shown the precarious condition of the migrant workforce. It will be difficult to win back their confidence and get them back after the lockdown is lifted and this will hit the industries too," he said. The Inter-State Migrant Workmen (regulation of employment and conditions of service) Act 1979, states that every worker should be enrolled at the source and destination states. This is to ensure safe migration, prevention of exploitation and protection of their rights. The law, applicable to anyone recruiting more than five inter-state workers, stipulates that the employe must provide accommodation, sanitation facilities, healthcare and crèche for children. The lack of awareness of these acts among the working class and lackadaisical approach of the law enforcing agencies, who do not pull up violating employers, has had a cascading effect, leaving hundreds of migrant labourers stranded during a global pandemic. For instance, according to TN there are 1.34 lakh guest workers in the state and they have been taken care of. But a survey following the Moulivakkam building collapse in 2014 estimated 10.6 lakh guest workers in Chennai, Kancheepuram and Tiruvallur districts alone. Trade unionists and activists say the number across the state is nearly 30 lakh with a majority being employed in textile, garment and construction sectors. "I have been working in a garment unit for more than 10 years. I live here with my family in a rented house. I have no ration card and I am not covered under any government social security scheme," said 35-year-old Pradhan Kumar from Begusarai. He is one among the 500-odd workers from Bihar eking out their livelihood working in garments and textile units in Tirupur district. But had Pradhan’s employer registered him with the TN labour department as per protocol, Pradhan would have been eligible for Rs1,000 pension, medical benefits and financial aid for his children. But lack of awareness on the part of the workers and disregard on the part of employers leave workers in the lurch. "Except for the weekly salary of Rs2,700 to Rs3,000, we are not entitled to any rights. Since the lockdown, our employers are not even attending our phone calls," said 28- year-old Subhal of Odisha. The stoppage of work under the lockdown has brought workers to their knees because of the low wages that leaves them unprepared for contingencies. "Registration of employers and employees is not done properly. Without data on the workforce of the unorganised sector and those coming from other states, it is difficult to address their issues," said advocate Nagasaila of People’s Union for Civil Liberties. The government, despite having the resources to reach out to households in the state, is not taking up an enumeration drive to create a database of these workers, she said. M Prabhu Gandhi Jain of Climate Change Matters said employers with a workforce of more than 200 should have a health centre. "The law stipulates the employer should have a crèche to take care of the employee’s children, if the number is more than 20. But only a few have such facilities," he said. The Unorganised Workers’ Social Security Act, 2008, is a protective legislation for employees but only about 5% to 6% are enrolled under it. The improper enumeration of guest workers has left them out of policy decisions. After the chaos over stranded workers, TN has allocated Rs101 crore to procure essentials for them, but this exigency plan could have been implemented differently if the state had an idea of the number of people in distress.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/how-the-reality-of-employee-rights-crippled-workforce/articleshow/75073610.cms||Shanmughasundaram J
April 10, 2020||Nagpur||Appointment rules for all tribunals challenged in HC||Nagpur: Two social workers approached Nagpur bench of Bombay high court challenging the ‘New Tribunal Rules, 2020’ framed by the Central government under Section 184 of Finance Act, 2017, for deciding on appointments, qualifications, and eligibility of members of 19 tribunals functioning in India. Justice Atul Chandurkar on Friday issued notices to Union ministries of finance, law, consumer affairs and state chief secretary, asking them to file reply by April 21. Petitioners — Citizens Forum for Equality president Madhukar Kukde, and Consumer Forum Bar Association president AM Kazi — had also challenged the March 11 circular inviting applications for appointment of six posts of members in National Consumer Disputes Redressal Commission in New Delhi, which was based on the new rules. Petitioners’ counsels — Tushar Mandlekar and Rohan Malviya — argued that the ‘New Rules 2020 (Tribunals, appellate tribunal and other authorities, qualifications, experience and other conditions of service of members)’ framed under the Finance Act are illegal, bad in law and need to be quashed. According to counsels, the rules are contrary to the judgment of Supreme Court in Roger Matthew versus South Indian Bank, and also to the parent legislation of respective tribunals, by which specific eligibility criteria for appointment of members is provided. Mandlekar further contended that the rules are derogatory to the constitutional principles laid down by the apex court regarding ‘Separation of Powers’ and ‘Independence of Judiciary’. “The new rules create search cum selection committee comprising two executives of the Union government amounting to excessive interference of the executive in appointment of judges in these tribunals. Those also led to unreasonable classification among applicants where ordinary citizen is equated with high court or district judge,” he pointed out. Mandlekar informed that the rules further led to unreasonable requirement of 25 years of experience of professional work in the field of commerce, education, economics, business, law, and administration, and is aimed at appointing retired bureaucrats to the post of members in tribunals.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/appointment-rules-for-all-tribunals-challenged-in-hc/articleshow/75073568.cms||---
April 10, 2020||Coimbatore||Minister distributes relief materials||Udhagamandalam: Minister for municipal administration and rural development SP Velumani on Thursday launched distribution of relief material to 3,156 workers from unorganized sector and 4,210 guest workers in the district. He also dedicated two new ‘108’ ambulance vehicles. He later held a review meeting with officials in connection with the containment of COVID-19 in the Nilgiris at the additional collectorate in the town. Stating that 320 isolation beds have been readied in the district besides 100 in Ooty government hospital, the minister said, “About 84,314 face masks and 1,702 litres of hand sanitizers have been distributed by the medical department, district rural development agency and the social welfare department.” The 320 isolation beds are readied at Good Shepherd School, and government hostels for boys and girls in Ooty. He said, “About 1,729 families located in the core-sealed areas to an extent of 3 km radius in the district are being scanned for the virus.” With travel history, 1,312 people were identified in the district. While 1,079 have completed the protocol of 28 days of home quarantine, a new list of 247 people with travel history have been added on April 4. As on date, 406 people are under home quarantine in the district, the minister said. TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/minister-distributes-relief-materials/articleshow/75073601.cms||---
April 10, 2020||Jaipur||Collector: Act systematically on cleanliness||Jaipur: Having received complaints from various places in the city and the Walled City with regard to cleanliness, district collector Joga Ram on Thursday wrote to commissioner of Jaipur municipal corporation V P Singh instructing him to take appropriate steps in ensuring proper sanitization in the city and to maintaining cleanliness. “It was told that the sanitization in some areas was not done properly. We also told them that those areas were unclean and unhygienic and asked them to disinfect the areas in a systematic manner,” said the collector. TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/collector-act-systematically-on-cleanliness/articleshow/75074182.cms||---
April 10, 2020||Coimbatore||Crime rates plunge amid lockdown||Coimbatore: Crime rates are going down across the city, thanks to the Covid-19 lockdown. While 14 vehicle thefts, two house break-ins, three robberies, two fatal accidents and three chain snatching cases were reported between March 24 and April 7 last year, no such offences were reported during the period this year, police said. “We curtailed people’s movement drastically during the lockdown that began at 6pm on March 24. People are staying at home and cops are present round-the-clock in the city,” police commissioner Sumit Sharan said. However, a house break-in was reported during the period. As many as 1,800 police personnel are deployed in the city in three shifts. The cops are booking cases against those who deliberately come out and violate the prohibitory order. Though no murder cases were reported from the city, one was reported from rural Coimbatore.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/crime-rates-plunge-amid-lockdown/articleshow/75073618.cms||---
April 10, 2020||Ahmedabad||Gujarat’s revenue situation worrying: Deputy CM Nitin Patel||GANDHINAGAR: With government revenues drying up drastically as a result of the lockdown, deputy chief minister and finance minister Nitin Patel expressed concerns over the state’s revenue situation and hinted at major austerity measures being put into place. Speaking to TOI, Patel said a detailed austerity action plan will be announced soon. Q: How has the lockdown affected the state exchequer?NP: The lockdown has brought down state revenues drastically. Government income from VAT on petrol and diesel has fallen in a big way, as use of vehicles has stopped. Even commercial vehicles are not operating. The income from VAT on petrol and diesel has gone down by around Rs 4,000 crore after the lockdown. Likewise, industries, trading, services sector and most commercial activities are under GST, and revenues from these economic activities have dwindled. The loss from GST – both state collection and Centre’s share is around Rs 5,000 crore. At the same time, with the announcement of several relief packages, expenses have seen a huge spurt. So what we are experiencing is an increase in unplanned expenditure and almost no revenues. Relief measures like free ration, deferred payment of electricity bills, waiver of certain charges is taking a toll on the finances. Moreover, other income sources of the government like electricity duty is down 90% because industries are not functioning. Also, revenues from stamp duty and motor vehicle taxes have stopped altogether. Q: What is the status of development activities?NP: Development activities like construction of new roads, government buildings, implementation of various government schemes etc, have been suspended as of now. These developmental activities will commence only after the situation returns to normal. More activities will start only after all the economic activities resume in a full-fledged manner across the state. Q: Is the government planning austerity measures?NP: Financial constraints due to lockdown is a big challenge. The government will initiate austerity measures in a phased manner to control expenditure and increase income. We will have to introduce austerity in all kinds of expenses including the salary expenses. We have already introduced 30% pay cut in the salary of ministers and MLAs. A detailed austerity action plan will be introduced shortly. Q: Is any relief package being considered for the industry and service sector?NP: It will be too early to comment on this. We are closely monitoring every development. We have already taken several key relief steps. After lockdown is lifted, we will assess the situation. Q: Is the state seeking any special assistance from GOI?NP: The Union government, under the leadership of PM Modi, is already addressing all the requirements of Gujarat. The need for special assistance has not risen yet.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/gujarats-revenue-situation-worrying-patel/articleshow/75073717.cms||Kapil Dave
April 10, 2020||Jaipur||Chief secretary for restructuring medical facilities in Jaipur||JAIPUR: Chief secretary D B Gupta has agreed to restructure the medical facilities being provided at the curfew-affected areas including Ramganj and Jaipur city by appointing separate officials to head the four verticals--screening, sampling and contact tracing, logistics and quarantine facilities, said principal secretary, energy department, and Jaipur city nodal officer for prevention of coronavirus Ajitabh Sharma on Thursday. Gupta has also agreed to appoint a senior officer for coordination. Meanwhile, the district administration has already issued an order on Thursday to appoint officials for all the four verticals by dividing the roles among the existing staff at the CMHO. “Four major medical and health-related works are going on at the curfew-affected areas including Ramganj and Jaipur city. The four verticals are - screening, sampling and contact tracing, logistics (arranging medical equipment, inventories and vehicles) and quarantine facilities. In order to do these things properly, there is a need for restructuring. I suggested that four different officials should be given charge of these verticals,” said Sharma. “The chief secretary has agreed to my proposal and has committed to provide manpower for these works. Presently, those who look after quarantine facilities are also doing sampling work and screening of people. A focused approach is required for all the four verticals,” Sharma added. “The chief secretary has assured me that he will appoint a senior officer soon. The officer will help in coordination and also develop a line of command. There is a need for training for screening and sampling as well,” he added. Sharma added, “There were also some issues related to enforcement in the curfew-affected areas which include sanitising the staff from other departments who enter these areas; second, the pattern in which random sampling must be done. There was a request to run Mobile Medical Units (MMUs) as well. Containment of the disease was another issue which was discussed.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/chief-secy-for-restructuring-medical-facilities-in-city/articleshow/75074194.cms||---
April 10, 2020||Surat||In lockdown, maths teacher unlocks puzzles for children||Surat: Seeing their wards idling away in the lockdown period treating it as an extended vacation, many parents are worried sick about their children’s education. So was Devarsh Barad, a Class IV student’s parents in Ghanitya village of Sutrapada taluka in Gir-Somnath district who were especially worried about their son's maths lessons. However, Ajit Barad, Devarsh’s father and a science teacher in the government school was helped by a friend who suggested joining maths teacher, Sursinh Parmar’s free online classes. Now, so engrossed is the father-son duo with the online classes, that there is no stopping them. “My son joined the online class through mobile App and is enjoying a lot. Even I joined him as Sursinh Parmar's style of teaching is really remarkable,” said Barad.Sursinh Parmar, 44, has been teaching mathematics in Vitthalpur village’s government primary school in Kodinar taluka of Gir-Somnath district. A recipient of Best Maths teacher from All India Ramanujan Maths Club in 2019, Parmar has invented new divisibility rule 8 in maths and was also awarded Innovative teacher award by the Indian Institute of Management-Ahmedabad (IIMA) in 2015.A popular teacher across the state, Parmar lives in Alidar village which borders Gir wildlife Sanctuary. "My life’s aim is to remove the fear associated with maths and make kids enjoy the subject. I thought of finding an alternative to the conventional method of teaching and therefore started teaching online," he said.Soon word spread about Parmar's online maths class and it now has more than 150 students of Class III and IV in a matter of few days only. "On Thursday, 158 kids from across the state joined the class. I teach them between 8:30am and 10am daily. Kids have to download the Zoo app. I have got licence version of the App so that up to 500 kids can join this online class at a time,” Parmar told TOI.  Parmar's initative also inspired a private school teacher to help in buying licence version of the App (Zoom Cloud Meeting App) so that more and more kids can get benefit of his maths class. Incidentally, Parmar’s simplified teaching has helped over 30 children from poor families successfully crack JNV entrance test to get free education till Class XII.Every Sunday, Parmar invites experts on different fields to interact with the kids. "Last Sunday, we invited Assistant Commissioner of Police (Surat) Haresh Mevada who talked about policing during the lockdown. Next Sunday, MD student Dr Monika Vaghela, who works in Lab in Jamnagar, will interact with kids about Covid-19 and how to be safe. Besides maths, this also help kids understand what's going around them in the world and about the virus,” Parmar added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/in-lockdown-maths-teacher-unlocks-puzzles-for-children/articleshow/75073620.cms||Vijaysinh Parmar
April 10, 2020||Jaipur||63,000 packets of ration distributed among needy||Jaipur: After identification of people for distribution of dry ration in the district, so far 43,361 packets of ration have been distributed through the Bhamashah in Jaipur rural and 28,000 packets were provided to the local administration for distribution. Meanwhile, in urban areas, nearly 20,000 dry ration packets have been distributed.District supplies officer (Jaipur-II) Gopal Singh said as on April 8, 43,361 packets of dry ration have been distributed in Jaipur rural through Bhamashah and 28,000 dry ration packets were sent to the local administration for distribution.District Collector Joga Ram had said 25,000 people have been identified in rural areas and 18,000 people in urban areas for distribution of dry ration in the district.“Around 2.24 lakh cooked food packets are being distributed in the district every day. After the completion of the survey, 25,000 in rural areas and 18,000 people in urban areas have been identified in the district for the distribution of dry ration packets. So far, nearly 20,000 packets have been distributed in the city,” he said.Earlier, when three MLAs - Mahesh Joshi, Amin Kagzi and Rafeek Khan – met district collector Joga Ram to take up the issue of distribution of dry ration packets in the city, the district collector had assured them that 20,000 packets of dry ration were procured and would be distributed soon.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/63000-packets-of-ration-distributed-among-needy/articleshow/75074199.cms||---
April 10, 2020||Delhi||Inside contained zones: Good, bad, ugly||NEW DELHI: In the 23 containment zones in the city, people suddenly found themselves more isolated on Thursday than since the beginning of the lockdown. The colonies had the entrances barricaded, while police and civil volunteers in other areas prevented any activity—no grocery purchases, no delivery from eateries, no movement of pedestrians or vehicles. There was some confusion because the implementation of the containment was not uniform across the marked localities. For instance, notices in some places had numbers of essential commodity providers, while other places had no such comfort. On Thursday evening, a government official claimed contact details of permitted shops had been publicised in all areas. “People can take the help of civic defence staff, police or department of food and supplies deployed in the containment zones or contact the nodal officer mentioned on the containment order,” the official said. TOI spoke to RWA members, policemen and civil defence volunteers, while photographers fanned out to other places to record the clampdown meant to check the spread of infection by the novel coronavirus. Bengali Market: The 10 or so entry and exit points are barricaded and manned by cops. The sealing did not hurt people much because 15 civil defence volunteers, police and paramilitary personnel ensured goods reached them. A police officer said, “A printout containing numbers of shops have been pasted everywhere. The stores handed over the purchases to volunteers at the barricade for delivery to homes.” Pratap Khand, Jhilmil: “Early morning, the milk booth was open, but as soon as police arrived, everything shut down,” said Vinod Kumar, RWA member. Delhi government’s medical team carried out door-to-door survey of the houses and even took a suspected person to hospital. However, till Thursday evening, there was no clarity on arrangements for delivery of essential items. Dilshad Colony, F Block: Kulwant Rana, RWA president, exclaimed, “The containment exercise was an eyewash.” He said houses F70-90 were cordoned off till afternoon but the police left then and “everyone is roaming around freely”. Mansara Apartments, Vasundhara Enclave: There was a strict protocol in place here for deliveries. The delivery person placed items on a bench near the guardroom and moved away. The resident placed the payment on the bench. Only after the money was picked up — it was sprayed with sanitiser first — and the deliveryman cycled away was a resident allowed to carry purchases away. “Mobile ATMs have been arranged,” added Saurabh Mukherjee, secretary of Mansar Apartments. Vardhaman Apartments, Mayur Vihar Phase 1 Extension: Resident Anshul was shouting out to the volunteers at the gate. He explained, “I ordered paneer from a shop, but was told they couldn’t deliver it. I am trying to see if the volunteers can help.” RWA member R P Aggarwal said, “We have been arranging things on our own or taking the help of police.” A head constable disclosed that they were leaving groceries outside the houses of corona-positive people there. Lane No 9, Pandav Nagar: The gates of the 150-metre stretch in J Block on which a Covid-19 patient lives are locked and manned by civil defence volunteers, creating problems for the residents of 53 houses there. Pankaj Vij found when he walked up to the gate that the deliveryman wouldn’t take the gas cylinder to his house. He had to return home, ride to the gate on his scooter with the empty cylinder and carry back the new one. Mayurdhwaj Apartments, Patparganj: Security guard Chandan Kumar Jha said the complex has been sealed since April 4 and movement of people strictly monitored. A PCR van is stationed nearby. A pandal outside is meant for random testing, but none has happened. People are allowed to order and collect essentials twice a day, says resident Gopal Khanna. But Swati Samajdar, who stays nearby, grumbled, “I have been delivering stuff to my 80-year-old father because there’s no one around.” Nizamuddin West, G and D Blocks: “Last night, everyone from the basti descended on the only milk booth here,” said G Block RWA president Farookh M Siddiqui. “We don’t know who will deliver essential items to the homes.” CRPF personnel blocked the entry to the block. Area municipal councillor Yasmin Kidwai fretted, “Who does one call for essentials or a doctor? There’s no clear communication.” Dilshad Garden, Pocket L: Nine of the locality’s 11 gates are shut and the open two manned by police. “Earlier we were allowed to go to grocery shops inside the colony. But now the RWA and police are arranging for the items, including medicines, to be brought to the people,” said Sanjay Bhardwaj, RWA president. Dilshad Garden, Pockets J and K: Anil Sharma, vice-president of the RWA, bristled that the sealing orders talked of supply arrangements but there was no official help for this. The residents reported it was the RWA that was facilitating delivery of supplies. Shahjahanbad Society, Sector 11, Dwarka: Entry is barred and personnel in hazmat suits disinfected the area on Thursday. Most residents of the 236 flats worried about home delivery arrangements. Gandhi Park, Hauz Rani: The main lanes were sealed and policemen are patrolling the interior lanes too. Civil defence volunteers wearing masks and gloves assisted the residents. Yogesh Ghaloth, a volunteer, said, “Some residents gave us long lists of items they wanted from the shop but we told them we would be here every day to help them get them.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/inside-contained-zones-good-bad-ugly/articleshow/75074208.cms||Vibha Sharma
April 10, 2020||Lucknow||Only 60% food processing units on in west UP, supplies to be hit||LUCKNOW: Even though the government has permitted food processing industries to operate, only about 60% of them in west UP have started production since the lockdown. Shortage of labourers, most of whom have returned to their home towns and villages, and raw material has prevented others from starting work. Officials say this could affect availability of confectionery, masalas, dal, rice, pickle, juices, sauces in the coming days. For Noida and Greater Noida Authorities, under whom a large number of industrial projects were underway, major effort has been put into ensuring that labourers stay put. Principal secretary, industries, Alok Kumar said other than preventing movement of people during lockdown, it was required to ensure that labourers remained on site so that industries can start when the lockdown is lifted. “At present, a large number of migrant workers are living in Noida and Greater Noida and if they are not taken care of, they will leave and we cannot afford that. Some industries, like food processing, which have been permitted to operate are not being able to work to capacity due to unavailability of labour,” he said. Between the two authorities, more than 1.10 lakh food packets are being distributed daily. CEO Noida Ritu Maheshwari said community centres have been converted into kitchens in five areas. Around 70,000 food packets are being distributed to 35,000 people daily, most of whom are labourers and daily wagers. “About 10-12 NGOs and foundations are also helping out. We are cooking about 20% of total food in our kitchens while the rest is brought here and we are distributing it. The Authority has deployed buses, e-rickshaws to distribute food packets to beneficiaries,” she said. Maheshwari said there were 70-100 sites under her jurisdiction where labourers were residing and government has been in touch with builders regularly to ensure the work force gets food and shelter. Greater Noida CEO Narendra Bhoosan said not all industries, where work has started, are functioning to 100% capacity due to shortage of labour. However, some companies which have improvised and are manufacturing goods needed to combat coronavirus are using their labour force. “Some textile companies have started manufacturing masks while others are taking assistance from vehicle manufacturers to produce low cost ventilators, using the labour and machines already available with them,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/only-60-food-processing-units-on-supplies-to-be-hit/articleshow/75074206.cms||Neha Lalchandani
April 10, 2020||Kozhikode||Corona cases without symptoms baffle officials||Kannur: The number of people under surveillance for Covid-19 has come down in Kannur and Kasaragod, and the number of positive cases has not spiked alarmingly as well. However, asymptomatic cases under surveillance have tested positive and some people have developed symptoms nearly 28 days after starting quarantine, baffling health officials. So, they are planning random testing of patients with respiratory problems, though they are not under Covid surveillance, to ensure that there is no community spread. An 11-year-old boy who came from Sharjah was tested for the virus on April 8. His two uncles, who received him at Kozhikode airport on March 15, also tested positive. However, the boy’s mother and younger brother, who also travelled with him from Sharjah, tested negative. But four more of his relatives tested positive on Thursday as well, thus taking the total positive cases in the family and relatives to eight. In another case, health officials are clueless about the source of infection of a 71-year-old man from Mahe who tested positive three days ago. Though the symptoms of the disease normally surface within 14 days of the virus entering the body, the boy and his uncles tested positive 24 days after he landed in Kerala. Similarly, a person from Madayi, who reached here from Nizamuddin on March 10, had no symptoms for long and he tested positive after 28 days. “The possibility of asymptomatic cases testing positive cannot be ruled out. So, in high-risk cases, like people coming from affected areas, they should remain in quarantine for 28 days, said Kannur district medical officer K Narayana Nayak. “Though the boy’s mother and brother tested negative, the possibility of them being asymptomatic carriers of the virus cannot be ruled out, and the boy who tested positive now has no symptom of the disease, but he is now in hospital,” said the DMO. In Kasaragod too, people without any symptom, and who are not primary or secondary contacts, are being tested to ensure there is no community spread.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kozhikode/corona-cases-without-symptoms-baffle-officials/articleshow/75071685.cms||---
April 10, 2020||Bhopal||BMC develops ‘zero contact check-up’ facility||Bhopal: Following WHO guidelines and improving safety of health professionals, Bhopal Municipal Corporation (BMC) has developed a portable booth — ‘zero contact check-up’ facility. Given the need for judicious use of personal protective gear (PPE) and other consumables, the ‘zero contact check-up’ facility, said BMC commissioner, B Vijay Datta. This will ensure the safety of our medical professionals owing to the viral barrier chamber and ensuring no direct contact with the patients. The doctors, who are our superheroes in present scenario, are continuously fighting with this situation and they require “zero contact check-up facility” in light of Corona virus pandemic. Ergonomically-designed sitting arrangement enable doctors to examine patients without any direct physical contact thereby protecting them from the hazards of viral exposure. It is very helpful in mitigating the problem of scarcity of PPEs for medical professionals. Reduction in bio-medical waste as it reduces the disposal of single use Polypropylene PPEs. It is a mobile unit and hence it is easy to be transported to remote location and rural areas. It is mobile unit thus enables to go within 500 m area by hand transport.It is economical and low cost viral barrier for doctors, explained BMC official.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/bmc-develops-zero-contact-check-up-facility/articleshow/75073616.cms||---
April 10, 2020||India||Will aid humanity’s fight, says PM Modi after Donald Trump’s ‘thanks’||NEW DELHI: India will do everything possible to help humanity’s fight against Covid-19, PM Narendra Modi said on Thursday, soon after US President Donald Trump thanked him for conditional lifting of the ban on export of hydroxychloquine (HCQ), the anti-malarial drug deemed to be somewhat effective in containing the coronavirus. “Extraordinary times require even closer cooperation between friends. Thank you India and the Indian people for the decision on HCQ. Will not be forgotten! Thank you Prime Minister @NarendraModi for your strong leadership in helping not just India, but humanity, in this fight!” Trump tweeted on Thursday. Modi responded, “Fully agree with you President @realDonaldTrump. Times like these bring friends closer. The India-US partnership is stronger than ever. India shall do everything possible to help humanity’s fight against Covid-19. We shall win this together.” The exchange between the two comes just days after certain comments by Trump had been construed to appear like he was threatening retaliation if New Delhi didn’t lift the export ban on HCQ for supplies to the US. India has since partially opened up HCQ exports on a ‘case by case’ basis and the first to benefit would be the US, Brazil and Spain. India has also opened up paracetamol exports to the UK. On Thursday, Modi spoke to South Korean President Moon Jae-in on the issue. An MEA readout said the PM thanked the “ROK government for facilitating supplies and transport of medical equipment being sourced by Indian firms”.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/will-aid-humanitys-fight-says-pm-modi-after-donald-trumps-thanks/articleshow/75074620.cms||---
April 10, 2020||Hyderabad||Woman murders husband after tiff||Hyderabad: A woman strangulated her husband while he was sleeping after he allegedly repeatedly accused her of having an affair. The victim, Mahankali Krishna (36), a welder, was found dead by his brother at his house in Akbarjapet on Thursday. When his family confronted Laxmi, Krishna’s wife, she told them he had been behaving strangely for the past 10 days due to unavailability of alcohol. According to police, the victim allegedly suspected that someone had been waiting for his wife outside. Vexed with her husband’s behaviour, Laxmi strangulated him while he was sleeping, with an iron box wire and killed him. A murder case was registered, while the wife was taken into custody. TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/woman-murders-husband-after-tiff/articleshow/75074212.cms||---
April 10, 2020||Coimbatore||MSMEs demand waiver of power bills for 3 months||Coimbatore: Micro job work firms that make components for automobiles and pumpsets using CNC machine on productive days receive a monthly electricity bill of Rs 15,000. Firms that operate a centre lathe get an electricity bill of Rs 4,000. But, with their functions thrown totally out of gear and machines lying idle amid the lockdown, micro, small and medium industrialists who had already been hit by decreased orders due to the slowdown, said it would not be fair to ask them to pay the same power charges as per the previous billing cycle. The state government should waive off power bills for three months, they said. District president of the Tamil Nadu Association of Cottage and Tiny Enterprises (TACT) J James said though the state has given them time to pay the bills, it would be helpful if the bills are waived off completely for three months. “There is no income for MSMEs. At this juncture, if we are asked to pay the electricity bill, it would be a huge burden. As the machines have been lying idle, the state government should waive even the basic charges,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/msmes-demand-waiver-of-power-bills-for-3-months/articleshow/75073621.cms||---
April 10, 2020||Nagpur||Rape accused, friends beat up survivor||Nagpur: A 25-year-old woman journalist was thrashed and threatened at knifepoint by a group of people, including a former friend against whom she had filed two rape cases since 2017. The survivor was present at her home when the accused entered her flat along with his accomplices and attacked her on Tuesday. The accused have been identified as Faizal Ahmed, Shahid Khan, Faizan Ansari, Sarfaraz, Annu Thakur and three others. According to police, the survivor, a journalist, was friends with Faizal who allegedly exploited her by luring her with false promise of marriage. The survivor had filed a complaint of rape in October 2017 against the accused at Hudkeshwar police station. She filed another rape case against Faizal in 2018 at Pratap Nagar police station. On Tuesday, when the survivor was at her home along with her cousin and a friend, the accused came over. He started yelling at the survivor for ruining his life by filing two rape cases. Faizal also pulled survivor’s hair and put a knife on her neck. The survivor tried to fight back and during the tussle she sustained a cut on her hand. It is learnt when Faizal was beating up the woman his accomplices were egging him on. They all fled the spot after the survivor raised an alarm. She later approached Kapil Nagar police station and filed a complaint.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/rape-accused-friends-beat-up-survivor/articleshow/75073623.cms||Viraj Deshpande
April 10, 2020||Ahmedabad||Gujarat: ‘21-day lockdown important step in Covid-19 fight’||AHMEDABAD: As on Monday, the USA has recorded 3.3 lakh Covid-19 cases and 9,600 deaths. As the projections are still grim, a large number of doctors from Gujarat who have made the US their home is at the forefront of the fight against Covid-19. A few of them share their experiences and a lesson or two for India. Dr Ashok Jain, senior vice president and chief medical officer for Beaumont Hospital, Wayne, in metropolitan Detroit, graduated from Baroda Medical College in 1977. “I am working 12 hours a day, seven days a week. I am on call round-the-clock as our hospital has been designated to take overflow Covid-19 patients from seven other hospitals in our system. To allow for more Covid-19 patients to be cared for, the emergency centre and obstetrical services will be temporarily closed,” said Dr Jain, adding that they are expanding their 66-bed respiratory unit to a 233 bed-facility. Beaumont’s medical staff is currently caring for about 1,000 patients while about 1,800 have been discharged. Dr Jain said that India’s 21-day lockdown is a ‘most welcome step.’ “It’s a must. I applaud the PM’s approach,” he said. “We are in for a long haul, at least the next three months.” Dr Raj Bhayani, president of American Association of Physicians of Indian Origin of Queens and Long Island, has been in New York for close to three decades. A native of Amreli, Dr Bhayani said that they are making sure doctors are getting personal protection equipment (PPE) which is in short supply. “We are directly approaching distributors and ensuring that hospitals and doctors get it. Likewise, we are also ensuring uninterrupted supply of prophylactic drugs for doctors. As doctors are working round the clock in emergency care, temples and self-help groups are providing food,” said Dr Bhayani.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/21-day-lockdown-important-step-in-covid-19-fight/articleshow/75073715.cms||Parth Shastri
April 10, 2020||Bhopal||Cops stay in hotels as their families fret at home||BHOPAL: Policemen deployed on field to enforce Covid-19 lockdown have been staying in hotels for the past three days. Back at home, their families are not only worried about their health, they are also concerned about their safety, especially when they hear about the attacks on cops. TOI spoke to two such families of policemen to understand their emotions at this time. Excerpts: ASP Sanjay Sahu’s wife Namita SahuMy husband works for 12-14 hours on routine basis and especially during festivals or law and order condition the working hours may be extended, so policemen’s families are used to it. But this time the situation is such that our men’s health is a major concern for us. As policemen interact with many people, they are exposed to risks. They do not have proper protection kits, even they were provided masks very late. So, the families are quite worried about their health. During the working hours, they do not get proper diet and now that everything is closed, even if there is something available, there is fear of contamination, so we are worried. Both my daughters are very attached to my husband and they are missing him very much. CSP Lokesh Sinha’s wife Radha SinhaMy husband was staying in the garage of our house since March 22. He had isolated himself from family as he felt that he was exposed to risk at the airport where he was deployed during the recent political crisis in the state and did not want to infect us. He was even having his food in the garage. My younger son, 10, is too attached to his father. Since he was living in isolation, my son used to see him from a distance. At at home my daughter, son and I are not able to sleep properly. My kids want to meet their father but they know it is not allowed. We know that what health risks my husband has been exposed to and worry about him all the time. I pray to god that we all pass through this phase of life quite soon.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/cops-stay-in-hotels-as-their-families-fret-at-home/articleshow/75073630.cms||---
April 10, 2020||Nagpur||17 Vid cases may be traced back to Badnera mosque||Nagpur: With twelve new cases emerging on second consecutive day, Vidarbha now has 62 confirmed cases of Covid-19 and three deaths. Amravati division has 42 of these cases. The administration is still searching the source of infection of many of these cases. On Thursday, it was revealed at least 17 have close connection with a mosque in Badnera. TOI had reported on April 5 that the administration was probing the possibility that source of Amravati, Buldhana and Washim cases could be in Badnera. On Thursday, district Collector of Akola Rajendra Papalkar stated that seven positive patients from Akola district had stayed at the Badnera Mosque. “Seven new cases from Patur town in Akola tested positive today. All seven had stayed with the Washim positive patient at a mosque in Badnera. Six more such contacts have been traced in Patur. We are awaiting their results,” said Papalkar. Washim district collector Hrushikesh Modak also accepted the source of infection for these patients could be in Badnera. “It is possible all these people (7 from Patur) including Washim patient may have been infected by a common source as they stayed together in Badnera mosque,” he said. Buldhana, where a 45-year-old teacher had died on March 28, could also find a similar connection. Civil surgeon of Buldhana Dr Premchand Pandit said hometown of the deceased was in Amravati district. “We came to know that this family used to visit their hometown Ridhapur via Badnera but we are trying to confirm,” he said. Amravati district collector Shailesh Naval informed there were three mosques in Badnera and all of them had been sealed. “Apart from 13 from Patur, ten people from Amravati also stayed in Badnera mosques. We have sent their samples for testing too. We also want to know whether the deceased person in Amravati used to visit any of these mosques in Badnera,” he said. In Amravati, a 45-year-old motor rewinding mechanic who died on April 2 had tested positive on April 4. Later on, three of his close contacts also tested positive. According to local people, the deceased used to visit the Badnera mosque. Thus total 17 cases, including two deaths in Vidarbha have some or the other connection with Badnera mosques. These are Jama Masjid, Almas Nagar and Chaman Nagar mosques. Administration is still tracing digital footprints of positive patients.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/17-vid-cases-may-be-traced-back-to-badnera-mosque/articleshow/75073625.cms||Chaitanya Deshpande
April 10, 2020||Ahmedabad||Men held for murder turn out to be burglars in Ahmedabad||AHMEDABAD: Crime branch sleuths on Thursday arrested two persons, Shailesh Kalasuva of Bopal and Vishnu Thakor of Chandkheda for the murder of Kirit Parmar near Vaishnodevi Circle on February 12. The prime accused Raja Kevat is on the run. According to assistant commissioner of police, crime branch, B V Gohil, a patrol team received information and acted swiftly to arrest the two accused. “During their interrogation, it came to light that while the three where speeding on their motorcycle, the collided with Parmar’s motorcycle. After verbal abusing him, one of the three stabbed him in the stomach, killing him on the spot,” added Gohil. Inspector N R Brahmbhatt said it also emerged that the three were fleeing after committing a burglary when the accident occurred. Crime branch sources said that they also confessed to several burglaries in the city. “They have committed burglaries in Chankheda, Ghatlodia, Adalaj, Visat Talavdi and Shivranjini in the city and Vinchiwada in Rajasthan,” said Brahmbhatt. The accused have been handed over to Sola police for further investigation, said a senior crime branch official.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/men-held-for-murder-turn-out-to-be-burglars/articleshow/75073716.cms||---
April 10, 2020||Jaipur||You’ve got mail! It’s business as usual for post office employees||JAIPUR: From helping the state government in distribution of essentials items to ensuring timely payment of pensions through electronic money orders, employees of the postal department are a busy lot during this lockdown. While there might be a dip in the regular letters received, but not in the services the department provide. When most of the world is working from home due to coronavirus, employees of the postal department who making a special effort to ensure that life becomes a little easier for others. “All the 29 delivery offices across the city are working. Our postmen are delivering mail, electronic money orders (EMOs) and essentials items everywhere including the areas in curfew. In Ramganj alone, about 350 to 400 EMOs have been delivered,” said B L Bhatti, senior superintendent, postal division, Jaipur. There are 290 postmen across the city who are currently involved in distribution of electronic money orders and essential items supplied by the state government. Across the state there are about 1,400 providing these services. In Jaipur city alone, there are at least a lakh people who receive their state pension for old-age and widows through EMOs. “There are people who are getting their pensions after almost 12 months and they can hardly believe it that we have come to give them their money at such a time. I recently visited an elderly widow at Jai Lal Munshi ka Rasta in Chandpole who after receiving a year’s pension had tears in her eyes. She thanked me and blessed me a million times and that made all the effort worth it,’’ said 41-year-old Rajinder Kumar, one of the postmen working in the Walled City areas. For those who do not have an account with the post office but want to reap the benefits of withdrawing money from their accounts in another bank, the postmen make it possible through India Post Payment Bank (IPPB) using Aadhar Enabled Payment System (AEPS). “Across the state, 9,000 transactions of withdrawing money have been made during the lockdown period,” confirmed Bhatti. The department has divided its employees into two groups, which work from home on alternate days. It has provided the state government with three vehicles along with staff to provide door-to-door delivery of the essential goods in the city.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/youve-got-mail-its-business-as-usual-for-post-office-employees/articleshow/75074211.cms||---
April 10, 2020||Coimbatore||Social work grad goes the extra mile for stranded guest workers||Coimbatore: All through the year, G Vivek, a city-based doctoral researcher on social work, can be seen in front of the railway station, bus stand or educational institutions spreading awareness on important issues. With the nationwide lockdown, all public spaces have turned empty. But Vivek continues with his yeoman’s service. For the first three days of the lockdown, he made himself available at ESI hospital, where Covid-19 patients were being treated, lending a helping hand to personnel and patients. “First we had to create awareness on how to handle medical equipment safely. Later we helped patients with filling out forms and buying them essentials,” said Vivek. With the prohibitory orders came a series of restrictions on movement of the general public. The hardest hit were guest workers mostly from the construction and hotel businesses. “On the third day of the lockdown, we got information that a youngster from Manipur, who had come to the city, was roaming around as he had no place to stay and no means to return home. We found him at Karumbukkadai. We got him screened and arranged an accommodation for him along with some other guest workers in Sivananda Colony,” he said. Vivek’s team, comprising students of social work, has been volunteering with NGOs to help arrange food and shelter for the needy. The group has helped 50 guest workers from across the state and Kerala, who had been driven out by their employers and were camping on the roadside at Sungam. Vivek and his team arranged food, blankets and water for the stranded workers. On April 1, police asked the workers to vacate the spot. Vivek and his team reached there and requested police and civic body officials to arranged an accommodation for the workers. Officials agreed to his request and moved the workers to a community hall near Thandu Mariamman Temple. This week, the guest workers were moved to a corporation school in Varadarajapuram. Vivek said the tahsildar has been arranging food for the workers. “When food is not sufficient, we source it through our well-wishers. We also get them medicines and other essentials,” he said. For scores of stranded guest workers in the city, Vivek’s efforts will surely be etched in their memories for long.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/social-work-grad-goes-the-extra-mile-for-stranded-guest-workers/articleshow/75073632.cms||---
April 10, 2020||Ahmedabad||Diabetic goes for a walk, booked by police||Ahmedabad: Your doctor's advice of walking to keep fit and build immunity will not save you in the time of lockdown. Vastrapur police on Wednesday morning booked a man and his wife for taking a walk as prescribed by doctor for the woman who was suffering from diabetes. An FIR filed with Vastrapur police states that a team of cops was patrolling near Vastrapur lake when they saw the couple walking there. The cops stopped them and asked why they were roaming despite the lockdown. The man told cops that his wife was a diabetic and her doctor had prescribed her to walk religiously every day. But the cops did not find this answer satisfactory and booked the couple for violation of the notification for lockdown. The FIR states that the government ordered lockdown to prevent spread of the novel coronavirus but the two went out defying the order. Inspector M M Jadeja of Vastrapur police said that it was not absolutely necessary for the couple to walk outside and they could even exercise inside their home. Jadeja said that not only this couple, but any other citizen who habitually goes on a morning or evening walk should remain indoors and do workout in their house.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/diabetic-goes-for-a-walk-booked-by-police/articleshow/75073713.cms||---
April 10, 2020||Lucknow||UP government’s massive plantation drive faces labour hurdle||LUCKNOW: The Uttar Pradesh government’s massive plantation drive in the monsoon season may face a major hurdle — shortage of labour, majority of whom have returned to their native homes after the implementation of the lockdown. The state government plans to plant 25 crore saplings while the forest department has set a target of at least 40 crore saplings in its 1500-odd nurseries. “Some of these 40 crore saplings are to be carried forward to next year when the state government would plant another 30 crore saplings,” said sources. However, to meet the target, the forest department would need extra labourers which is going to be a big challenge. Though the ministry of home affairs has put forest services in essential services and ordered to continue the plantation exercise, watering of plants, patrolling of forest and wildlife areas, taking care and finding additional hands to work in nurseries will pose a major challenge. “We have many daily wage labourers who have been working with us for years, but we would require more people to plant saplings,” said sources. The department, in order to retain the daily wagers, has already issued an order to pay wages for the month of March without any delay.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/govts-massive-plantation-drive-faces-labour-hurdle/articleshow/75074217.cms||Neha Shukla
April 10, 2020||Delhi||Barricades, screening in all sealed areas of Delhi||NEW DELHI: Barricades have been put around all the 23 containment zones in Delhi created to check the spread of novel coronavirus. Arrangements for essential supplies have been made. Police and civil defence volunteers are manning all the barricades in the sealed areas. The health department has, meanwhile, launched a screening exercise in all such zones. Those having any Covid-19 symptoms are being tested for novel coronavirus. The exercise is going to be intensified with the delivery of 1 lakh testing kits which were ordered by Delhi government recently. The kits are expected to be delivered on Friday. The number of containment zones is likely to increase as authorities are tracking the fresh Covid-19 positive cases being reported in the capital. Meanwhile, life within the containment zone for over 15,000 people turned out to be taxing with many going through panic and a sense of anxiety. Many complained of poor communication from the government about arrangements of essentials. Many of them could not get the details of the nodal officers appointed to ensure supply of essentials. A senior officer, however, said that people not need panic and the supply of essentials to the residents staying in the containment zones will be ensured. “A few people are ordering large quantity of items. We appeal to all to avoid stocking. It will lead to unnecessary panic,” the officer added. In all the containment zones, a list of essential service providers has been put up. The residents can get essential services delivered outside the main gate of their society or locality, claimed a senior officer. A few residents, however, claimed they could not find any such list. "Anyone having problem can contact the personnel manning the areas," the officer added. “Home delivery can be provided for people who are incapacitated. They can request the personnel stationed outside their society for help,” a senior government officer said. A nodal officer said that civil defence volunteers are assisting the residents in getting the ration delivered and nodal officers are ensuring that the shops located close to containment zones are open and they have enough supplies. “If someone is unable to get ration from anywhere, they can obtain ration (rice and sugar) from stalls erected outside the zones where ration will be provided by the food and civil supplies department,” said an officer. Further intensifying its action to contain the spread of Covid-19, the local civic bodies on Thursday carried out sanitisation exercise in the hotspots sealed by Delhi government. Special arrangements were made by South Delhi Municipal Corporation to sanitise Gandhi Park, Malviya Nagar, Sangam Vihar, Shahjahanbad Society, Sector-11 Dwarka, Dinpur Village, Alami Markaz Banglewali Masjid, Nizamuddin Basti and Nizzamuddin West areas. In these areas, 10 tankers, eight jetting machines, two fire tenders and 50 sanitation workers were deployed for spraying the disinfectants.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/barricades-screening-in-all-sealed-areas/articleshow/75074221.cms||AlokKNMishra
April 10, 2020||Coimbatore||Tribals get free vegetables||Coimbatore: Under directions from minister for municipal administration S P Velumani on Thursday, officials of horticulte department distributed vegetables free of cost to tribals in Theethipalayam, Singapathi, Mullangadu and Thaikandi villages near the city.The minister said vegetables are being sold in seven Uzhavar Santhais and more than 200 mobile vegetable markets to ensure that horticulture produce doesn’t go waste. Under Tamil Nadu Horticulture Development Agency, 45 block-level officials have been procuring vegetables, which are then being sold by designated vendors to customers in 15 vehicles, he said. In the past one week, vegetables and fruits worth Rs 2lakh have been sold, he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/tribals-get-free-vegetables/articleshow/75073634.cms||---
April 10, 2020||Thiruvananthapuram||8 foreigners recover from Covid, ready to leave Kerala||Thiruvananthapuram: Chief minister Pinarayi Vijayan said eight foreigners who were undergoing treatment after testing positive of Covid-19 in the state have completely recovered and are ready to go back to their native countries. “This is a major achievement for the state health department since a few among them who are senior citizens were in serious conditions during treatment. Now, all foreigners who were treated in the state have been cured,” said the chief minister. Eight foreigners: one from Italy and seven from the UK have been discharged from the hospitals. The person who had come from Italy was undergoing treatment at medical college hospital in Thiruvananthapuram. After becoming negative in successive tests he was shifted to another hospital. Seven UK nationals, including an 83-year-old woman, were admitted to Government Medical College, Ernakulam. All of them have been discharged from the hospital. “Among them, the last four people were shifted to a private hospital based on their recommendation. They said that they received the best ever treatment in their life and they are fully satisfied for the support from health workers of the hospital,” said health minister K K Shailaja. “World over, people above 60 years of age are put in the high-risk category when they are tested positive of Covid-19. Among the foreigners, the condition of 57-year-old UK national had worsened. He was given HIV drugs with special sanction from Indian Council of Medical Research. But the dedicated team of the Ernakulam MCH saved his life,” she added. On March 13, the first foreigner tested positive in the state when a person from Italy, who was staying in Varkala, became positive. He was cured and was later shifted to Nedumangadu district hospital since it was unsafe for him to stay at a hotel. On March 15, a 19-member tourist group from the UK had tried to leave the state through Kochi airport. Of this, only one person had tested positive initially and he was shifted to Ernakulam MCH. However, later six more people from the group tested positive.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/thiruvananthapuram/8-foreigners-recover-from-covid-ready-to-leave-state/articleshow/75071736.cms||---
April 10, 2020||Vadodara||Coronavirus: Vadodara sees highest one-day spike, 21 positive||VADODARA: Vadodara witnessed the highest one-day spike in number of Covid-19 cases on Thursday after 21 people tested positive, taking the total number of cases to 39 since the outbreak of pandemic. District collector Shalini Agrawal said that majority of the cases have surfaced after the mass sample testing of residents in densely populated Nagarwada-Saiyedpura area. The mass samples were collected after first positive case was registered in Nagarwada on Sunday when a 54-year-old male had tested positive. After this, there has been spike in number of cases from the area which has been declared a containment zone and mass sampling has been carried out. Nagarwada alone accounts for 29 of the total 39 cases, said Agrawal. All 39 patients being treated at GMERS Medical College and Hospital at Gotri . After four tested positive in the day, the numbers jumped by 17 who were confirmed infected late on Thursday. A doctor, resident of Mughalwada area, who has tested positive had come in contact with the 78-year-old Covid-19 positive patient from Godhra who was admitted at a Waghodiya Road-based hospital on March 31. The Godhra man had tested positive and later succumbed at another private hospital, which is also located on Waghodiya Road. The hospital has been closed down with immediate effect while the health officials of VMC have directed the hospital management to completely sterilize the premises. Hospital administrator of the multispecialty hospital said after the Godhra man tested positive, all the seven members of the medical team, involved in his initial treatment, were kept under quarantine at government facility on Ajwa Road. Samples of all the seven were taken of which only one – that of the doctor – tested positive. Three others from Nagarwada who have tested positive are the ones who had come in close contact with the deceased. With three new cases surfacing from Nagarwada area, the total number of positive cases from the densely populated area has touched 12.  Mother of a 20-year-old boy, who had tested positive on Wednesday, has also been admitted as a suspect patient.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/vadodara-sees-highest-one-day-spike-21-ve/articleshow/75071397.cms||---
April 10, 2020||Jaipur||Ramganj reports first death; out of 80 fresh infections, 39 in Jaipur||JAIPUR: Two persons died of Covid-19 in the state on Thursday, a 65-year-old woman in Jaipur’s Ramganj and a 76-year-old man in Jodhpur, taking the toll to eight. The woman was admitted to SMS Hospital on Wednesday with complaints of respiratory distress and pneumonia. Additional chief secretary (health) Rohit Kumar Singh said she had hypertension as co-morbidity. She was put on ventilator support on Thursday morning, but died in late evening. Though the state reported the highest number of Covid-19 positive cases in a day on Thursday, it had reasons to cheer after all the previous 25 infected cases from hotspot Bhilwara were cured and discharged by evening on the same day. However, late at night, a fresh positive case was reported from the textile town. Eighty people tested positive in the state on Thursday, taking the total count to 463 so far. According to the health department report issued on Thursday night, 39 persons tested positive in Jaipur; seven each in Jhalawar, Jhunjhunu and Tonk; five in Jaisalmer; three in Jodhpur; two cases each in Kota and Banswara; and one case each in Barmer and Bhilwara. Six cases were reported from among the evacuees from Iran who are being treated at Army wellness centres in Jodhpur and Jaisalmer. Among the 39 cases from various parts of Jaipur, 12 are from Ramganj; 11 from Purani Basti; seven from Patang Bazaar; and one each from Raja Park, Ghat Gate, Nahari Ka Naka, Manak Chawk, Sunharon Ka Mohalla, Subhash Chawk, Thora Nalla and from Navi Mumbai linked to Tablighi Jamaat. In Jodhpur, a 34-year-old doctor, who had conducted door-to-door survey for patients at Nagori Gate, also tested positive. Meanwhile, corona epicentre Bhilwara, which had hogged the limelight for its “ruthless” containment model, added another feather to its cap after curing all previous 25 Covid-19 patients by Thursday evening. But, a fresh positive case was reported from the town late at night. Between March 19 and April 8, the textile town had reported 27 Covid-19 positive patients. Two of them had died during treatment. The remaining 25 were all declared cured on Thursday evening, prompting chief minister Ashok Gehlot to release a statement expressing satisfaction over the achievement. Shortly thereafter, a 47-year-old person from Bhilwara was declared positive. He is a teacher by profession and had gone to the OPD of the district hospital with a sore throat and cough. Health department officials claimed that the patient had no travel or contact history. He is the 28th positive case from Bhilwara. The last case was reported on April 4. On 25 patients being cured, additional chief secretary (health) Rohit Kumar Singh told TOI, “It was a herculean task well accomplished by our department. However, we will continue to be vigilant to ensure that no further outbreak happens there.” Panic had gripped Bhilwara when the first case was reported on March 19 after a doctor of a private hospital was found infected with the virus. There were 250 healthcare staff in the hospital and 7,000 patients had undergone treatment in the OPD and IPD wings. It was a daunting task for health authorities and the district administration to identify infected persons among the healthcare staff and patients who had undergone treatment at the hospital for the past 30 days. The district administration imposed curfew and planned a “ruthless” containment strategy. Over the next 11 days, till March 30, the textile town reported 26 cases. The 27th case was reported on April 4. Authorities managed to contain the spread of the virus, but it was a major challenge to provide treatment for patients. “Since Bhilwara continued to report a lot of cases, we decided to adopt the treatment protocol adopted by the SMS Hospital doctors in Jaipur,” district collector Rajendra Bhatt told TOI. Out of the 25 patients cured, four of them had undergone treatment at the SMS Hospital.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/ramganj-reports-1st-death-out-of-80-fresh-infections-39-in-city/articleshow/75074319.cms||Syed Intishab Ali
April 10, 2020||Coimbatore||Aavin milks the opportunity: Procurement, sales go up||Coimbatore: State-owned dairy cooperative Aavin, which was mired in controversy over the price of milk, has turned into a haven for thousands of dairy farmers in the district and neighbouring Tirupur since the lockdown began. Milk procurement from farmers has increased by 8.33%, Aavin general manager R Ravikumar said. “Our procurement has increased from the usual 1.2 lakh litres per day before the lockdown to 1.3 lakh litres, going up by 10,000 litres as of Wednesday. Distribution also has increased from the usual 1.42 litres a day to 1.57 litres,” he told TOI. “Procurement from Tirupur farmers has also increased from 22,000 litres to 27,000 litres a day.” The increase in procurement and distribution has been attributed to smaller private players, milk bottlers and bulk buyers like factories shutting down. “After authorities began to barricade roads to ensure social distancing, several farmers approached our procurement agents, complained that their usual buyers had not turned up to buy milk. Though our rates are Rs 5 to Rs 10 lower than the private players, the farmers opted to have a reliable buyer,” Ravikumar said. The government has fixed procurement rate at Rs 32/litre. Reducing cooperative society expenses, it comes upto Rs 30.50. T Valaravan, a farmer who owns 30 cows in Kurumbapalayam, was supplying to a restaurant chain daily. He has now joined Aavin as all restaurants are shut. Detecting an opportunity to further increase business, the cooperative, that can process and pack two lakh litres of milk a day, has asked the procurement team to go door-to-door to rope in more dairy farmers like Valaravan. “We decided to help them and also increase our procurement,” said Ravikumar. Aavin agents and delivery boys find it easy to navigate through police check posts and barricades with their ID cards. The 800-odd agents are reporting a big increase in the number of buyers, be it individuals, gated communities and grocery stores. “Three grocery stores have started buying more milk packets from us in the last 10 days,” said the cooperative’s Vedapatti agent.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/aavin-milks-the-opportunity-procurement-sales-go-up/articleshow/75073640.cms||---
April 10, 2020||Lucknow||Cane society polls put off indefinitely||LUCKNOW: The cane development department on Thursday indefinitely postponed elections to cane societies due to lockdown. The five-year term of cane societies came to an end on Wednesday. Principal secretary, cane development, Sanjay Bhoosreddy, said, election to cane societies was not possible at the moment. The societies comprise representatives of cane growers and are crucial for day-to-day monitoring of cane purchase, marketing and fertilizer distribution. There are 169 cane societies and 28 mills societies in the state. Bhoosreddy said, the department will put in place an interim management society. “Absence of a formal society will impact interests of cane growers. The interim management society would comprise district cane officer, senior cane inspectors and secretary. Also, the mill society will have on board district magistrates, senior cane development inspector and principal manager,” he said. The two committees will have tenure of six months and would cease to exist once formal cane and mills societies are formed. Bhoosreddy said, election of societies will take at least a month.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/cane-society-polls-put-off-indefinitely/articleshow/75074223.cms||---
April 10, 2020||Bareilly||Tablighi Jamaat participant found in Kheri, quarantined||Bareilly: A member of Tablighi Jamaat, who attended the Delhi’s Nizamuddin Markaz in March, was quarantined on Thursday. He was found hiding in Palia town of Lakhimpur Kheri district. According to the police, he had taken shelter at the house of his acquaintance. The health department has sent the TJ member to a quarantine facility in Lakhimpur and sent his samples to check Covid-19 symptoms to Lucknow’s King George Medical College. Apart from him, samples of 14 other people, who are kept under quarantine, have been sent for Covid-19 tests. CMO Manoj Agarwal told TOI, “A TJ participant, who was staying in Dhaurahra mosque with 12 others was found in Palia town. We have quarantined him. Swab samples of 15 people, including the TJ participant, have been sent. Meanwhile, the samples of 25 others who had returned from Delhi and visited areas around Nizamuddin, have also been sent for test. A few of them had displayed symptoms like fever or cough, and we are expecting their reports to come in a day or two. The search for more TJ attendees is still going on in the district.” Earlier, 12 members of TJ were recovered in Dhaurahra town and three of them were tested positive for Covid-19. So far, four persons, including three TJ attendees, have been tested positive for Covid-19 in Kheri district.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/tablighi-jamaat-participant-found-kheri-quarantined/articleshow/75072885.cms||Kanwardeep Singh
April 10, 2020||Coimbatore||Family pitches tent on farmland, develops bond with nature to beat lockdown blues||Coimbatore: Life hasn’t been the same for 62-year-old N Sampath and his family since the nation went into lockdown mode to fight Covid-19. From the hustle and bustle of the city life, they have today taken refuge in mother nature’s lap. A businessman from Sullivan Street in Coimbatore, Sampath and his family, along with their three pet dogs, have been staying in a tent that they have erected on their agricultural field at Alandurai for the past 18 days. The tent is the new home for Sampath, his 54-year-old wife S Manimegalai, sons Pradeep Shri Ayyappan, 31, and S Pooja Shri Ayyappan, 23, and daughter-in-law P Monisha, 24. The recent downpour too hasn’t deterred them from their decision to stay there until the end of lockdown. Sampath, who runs a petrol bunk at Podanur, said it was to mainly to comply with the government’s direction to maintain social distancing that they moved out of their house on Sullivan Street. His son Pradeep said, “We had rented out a few portions of the house and hence it was not possible for us to maintain social distancing by staying there. So, we decided to move to our agricultural field, which is spread across five acres. The tent, which is made of tarpaulin, is equipped with cots. We have gas stove and enough provisions.” The agricultural land is filled with guava plants and coconut trees. It also houses a farmhouse. Pradeep said they have stopped watching television and brought down the use of mobile phones. “We are making the best of our stay here by roaming around the agricultural field, enjoying the nature. Every day we sight peafowls, sparrows and parrots, and being with them is altogether a different experience. Every evening, we bathe in the Noyyal,” he said. Alandurai and surrounding areas had witnessed heavy rain a few days ago. While they have a farmhouse nearby, the family stayed put in the tent. “We, however, use toilets and bathrooms in the farmhouse. Otherwise, we stay in the tent. Our mother cooks food in the open field by using firewood. Everything is a new experience for us,” Pradeep said. He said the farm workers were given leave and that no one was allowed inside the agriculture field. Manimegalai, meanwhile, appreciated what the environment had to offer them. “We are very much happy here. We have stocked provisions for a month and plan to stay here until the Covid-19 outbreak is controlled.” The new lifestyle has also gone down well with Pradeep’s younger brother Pooja. “It is a unique experience and there is no stress at all.” However, Sampath’s daughter Nivedhitha Sri, who is married to government hospital doctor Dr K Karthikeyan and settled in Dharmapuri, has missed this rare opportunity to unwind with her family and explore the pristine nature.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/family-pitches-tent-on-farmland-develops-bond-with-nature-to-beat-lockdown-blues/articleshow/75073650.cms||A Subburaj
April 10, 2020||Bhopal||Docs: Beaten by cops despite showing ID||Bhopal: Two PG doctors of AIIMS-Bhopal, including a woman, were allegedly beaten up by cops in Bag Sewania area on Wednesday evening despite showing ID cards. One of them, Dr Yuvraj Singh, suffered a fractured arm. SP (South) Sai Krishna S Thota ordered an inquiry and took a constable off active duty. Dr Singh and his colleague Dr Ritu took to social media with a video statement of their ordeal on Thursday. It went viral and their colleagues reposted it, tagging the PMO and CM Shivraj Singh Chouhan. They say they were returning home from emergency duty when a police patrol stopped them near AIIMS gate number 1. “We showed our ID cards but they started misbehaving with us and hit us with sticks. The cops were shouting: ‘Yeh Corona faila rahe hain, doctors bahar thodi ghumte hain (you are spreading corona, doctors don’t move out)’,” the duo said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/docs-beaten-by-cops-despite-showing-id/articleshow/75073649.cms||---
April 10, 2020||Surat||In lockdown, maths teacher unlocks puzzles for children||Surat: Seeing their wards idling away in the lockdown period treating it as an extended vacation, many parents are worried sick about their children’s education. So was Devarsh Barad, a Class IV student’s parents in Ghanitya village of Sutrapada taluka in Gir-Somnath district who were especially worried about their son's maths lessons. However, Ajit Barad, Devarsh’s father and a science teacher in the government school was helped by a friend who suggested joining maths teacher, Sursinh Parmar’s free online classes. Now, so engrossed is the father-son duo with the online classes, that there is no stopping them. “My son joined the online class through mobile App and is enjoying a lot. Even I joined him as Sursinh Parmar's style of teaching is really remarkable,” said Barad.Sursinh Parmar, 44, has been teaching mathematics in Vitthalpur village’s government primary school in Kodinar taluka of Gir-Somnath district. A recipient of Best Maths teacher from All India Ramanujan Maths Club in 2019, Parmar has invented new divisibility rule 8 in maths and was also awarded Innovative teacher award by the Indian Institute of Management-Ahmedabad (IIMA) in 2015.A popular teacher across the state, Parmar lives in Alidar village which borders Gir wildlife Sanctuary. "My life’s aim is to remove the fear associated with maths and make kids enjoy the subject. I thought of finding an alternative to the conventional method of teaching and therefore started teaching online," he said.Soon word spread about Parmar's online maths class and it now has more than 150 students of Class III and IV in a matter of few days only. "On Thursday, 158 kids from across the state joined the class. I teach them between 8:30am and 10am daily. Kids have to download the Zoo app. I have got licence version of the App so that up to 500 kids can join this online class at a time,” Parmar told TOI.  Parmar's initative also inspired a private school teacher to help in buying licence version of the App (Zoom Cloud Meeting App) so that more and more kids can get benefit of his maths class. Incidentally, Parmar’s simplified teaching has helped over 30 children from poor families successfully crack JNV entrance test to get free education till Class XII.Every Sunday, Parmar invites experts on different fields to interact with the kids. "Last Sunday, we invited Assistant Commissioner of Police (Surat) Haresh Mevada who talked about policing during the lockdown. Next Sunday, MD student Dr Monika Vaghela, who works in Lab in Jamnagar, will interact with kids about Covid-19 and how to be safe. Besides maths, this also help kids understand what's going around them in the world and about the virus,” Parmar added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/in-lockdown-maths-teacher-unlocks-puzzles-for-children/articleshow/75071742.cms||Vijaysinh Parmar
April 10, 2020||Nagpur||TOI-Nagpur Heroes nominee donates Rs 3.06 lakh||NAGPUR: The Times Of India’s Nagpur Heroes nominee and proprietor of Ashmi Road Carrier Private Limited & Ashmi Logistics Pyare Khan has donated Rs3.06 lakh in PM Cares fund, which has been setup to aid the citizens of India affected by the coronavirus. Khan has handed over the cheque to Union transport minister Nitin Gadkari. Khan, who started his career by driving an autorickshaw and now owns a fleet of 250 trailers, is also providing cooked meal to police personnel on duty and truck drivers who were stranded across the district due to lockdown. Not only Khan, many other good samartians came forward and donated funds in both PM’s relief fund and Maharashtra chief minister Uddhav Thackeray’s CM relief fund to aid the citizens of Maharashtra affected by the disease. According to a senior official from the district collectorate, Rs65.58 lakh was donated in chief minister Uddhav Thackrey relief fund for Coronavirus and the donors included Avinash Shegaonkar of Sai Mandir Trust who donated Rs31 lakh in CM’s relief fund. The other donors included Siraz Sheikh (Rs11 lakh), Baidhnath Ayurved Bhavan (Rs10lakh), Suruchi Masale (Rs5 lakh) and Ganpati Devasthan Adasa (Rs5 lakh), Malti Phadke (Rs 1lakh), Shri Haribhau Naik (Rs52,000), Sevashree Sai Cooperative Society (Rs51,000) among others. MSEB Engineers Cooperative Society also handed over a cheque of Rs11 lakh for the purpose to district guardian minister Nitin Raut. People from the city also contributed over Rs25 lakh towards PM Narendra Modi’s relief fund and the donors include Suruchi Masale, who contributed Rs20 lakh, Dr Kamal Pugliya (Rs 1lakh) among others.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/toi-nagpur-heroes-nominee-donates-rs-3-06l/articleshow/75073658.cms||Proshun Chakraborty
April 10, 2020||Lucknow||Keshav Prasad Maurya blames TJ for Covid case spike||LUCKNOW: The BJP escalated attack on Tablighi Jamaat on Thursday with deputy chief minister Keshav Prasad Maurya terming the Delhi congregation as the biggest reason behind the rise in Covid-19 cases. “People of Tablighi Jamaat are responsible for the rise in number of coronavirus cases, which has put people in danger of getting infected,” he said. The state government has been receiving complaints about misbehavior by people of Jamaat with doctors, nurses and paramedical staff, which is a cause of concern, he said. Maurya said the government was forced to seal hotspots in 15 districts because of rise in cases. The government is screening all people in hotspots and sanitizing each house. People need not panic as government is on high alert and ensuring that no one faces any problem, he said and appealed people to cooperate with district administration in the battle against coronavirus.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/maurya-blames-tj-for-covid-case-spike/articleshow/75074224.cms||---
April 10, 2020||Delhi||Mobile app to keep eye on locked-in residents of Delhi||NEW DELHI: To keep an eye on the movement of home quarantined people and carry out door-to-door assessment of every individual in containment zones, Delhi government has started collecting data through mobile applications. While the apps are being used only in south district at present, officials said other districts may also adopt the technology, which will help the district authorities closely monitor the Covid-19 hotspots. According to south district officials, a containment survey mobile application has been developed to capture the data of every individual living in a containment zone. The data gets updated on the server on real time basis, which is further analysed for mobilisation of various health facilities for people living in the containment zone. “As soon as the hotspots are identified and containment order is passed, the biggest task is to conduct door-to-door assessment of every individual in that area. We found that the collection of data and its analysis in physical form for quick decision making was a major challenge. To overcome the same, a mobile app has been developed and being used for doing assessment based on simple questionnaires like travel history, contact history, flu-like symptoms along with history of visit to affected group of people and places,” district magistrate (south) BM Mishra said. Mishra said the district teams now capture the data on mobile app, which gets updated on the server simultaneously. By analysing this data, the officials know the exact number of people having the flu-like symptoms and may require medical intervention. “With the help of the data, we can take decisions such as mobilisation of ambulances, keeping islolation beds ready or order institutional or home quarantine and conduct Covid-19 tests on individuals showing the symptoms,” Mishra said. There are two containment zones in south district so far, while the number of Covid-19 hotspots in Delhi has reached 25. Mishra said the survey in two south district’s containment zones was on the verge of completion.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/mobile-app-to-keep-eye-on-locked-in-residents/articleshow/75074227.cms||Atul Mathur
April 10, 2020||Surat||Diamond artisan arrested for rape of four-year-old girl in Surat||SURAT: Katargam police arrested a 26-year-old diamond artisan on Thursday for allegedly raping, sexually assaulting and sodomizing a four-year-old girl a day ago in a desolate area of the city. The girl had serious injuries on her private parts and suffered a fracture on right leg and is undergoing treatment in a hospital. Cops produced accused Nitesh Rajput, a native of Bihar, in a local court which remanded him in police custody for six days until April 15. The accused has admitted to police having been caught for raping a six-year-old girl in Kolkata in 2017. He informed police that he came out of jail after eight months on bail. Police requested the court for his custody to find out if he was involved in similar crimes in the city. The accused, a resident of Kapodra, had consumed liquor in the slums alongside railway tracks in Varachha and Katargam and is suspected to have committed the crime thereafter, police sources said. On Wednesday afternoon, the minor girl had gone to answer nature's call with her elder sister in an open ground when the accused abducted her. He raped and sodomized her at a nearby location. Some passersby heard the cries of the minor girl and came to check when the accused escaped after throwing her on a pile of stones. "Police nabbed the accused from one of the checkpoints. We had details of his looks from the CCTV footages based on which he was stopped for questioning," said a police officer at Katargam police station. Amid the ongoing lockdown, a four-year-old girl was allegedly abducted and raped by a 19-year-old youth Atul alias Karan alias Bhuriyo Jadav on March 24 in Limbayat area of the city. He was arrested by police on April 5. (The victim's identity has not been revealed to protect her privacy as per Supreme Court directives on cases related to sexual assault)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/diamond-artisan-arrested-for-rape-of-four-year-old-girl/articleshow/75073655.cms||---
April 10, 2020||Surat||In lockdown, maths teacher unlocks puzzles for children||Surat: Seeing their wards idling away in the lockdown period treating it as an extended vacation, many parents are worried sick about their children’s education. So was Devarsh Barad, a Class IV student’s parents in Ghanitya village of Sutrapada taluka in Gir-Somnath district who were especially worried about their son's maths lessons. However, Ajit Barad, Devarsh’s father and a science teacher in the government school was helped by a friend who suggested joining maths teacher, Sursinh Parmar’s free online classes. Now, so engrossed is the father-son duo with the online classes, that there is no stopping them. “My son joined the online class through mobile App and is enjoying a lot. Even I joined him as Sursinh Parmar's style of teaching is really remarkable,” said Barad.Sursinh Parmar, 44, has been teaching mathematics in Vitthalpur village’s government primary school in Kodinar taluka of Gir-Somnath district. A recipient of Best Maths teacher from All India Ramanujan Maths Club in 2019, Parmar has invented new divisibility rule 8 in maths and was also awarded Innovative teacher award by the Indian Institute of Management-Ahmedabad (IIMA) in 2015.A popular teacher across the state, Parmar lives in Alidar village which borders Gir wildlife Sanctuary. "My life’s aim is to remove the fear associated with maths and make kids enjoy the subject. I thought of finding an alternative to the conventional method of teaching and therefore started teaching online," he said.Soon word spread about Parmar's online maths class and it now has more than 150 students of Class III and IV in a matter of few days only. "On Thursday, 158 kids from across the state joined the class. I teach them between 8:30am and 10am daily. Kids have to download the Zoo app. I have got licence version of the App so that up to 500 kids can join this online class at a time,” Parmar told TOI.  Parmar's initative also inspired a private school teacher to help in buying licence version of the App (Zoom Cloud Meeting App) so that more and more kids can get benefit of his maths class. Incidentally, Parmar’s simplified teaching has helped over 30 children from poor families successfully crack JNV entrance test to get free education till Class XII.Every Sunday, Parmar invites experts on different fields to interact with the kids. "Last Sunday, we invited Assistant Commissioner of Police (Surat) Haresh Mevada who talked about policing during the lockdown. Next Sunday, MD student Dr Monika Vaghela, who works in Lab in Jamnagar, will interact with kids about Covid-19 and how to be safe. Besides maths, this also help kids understand what's going around them in the world and about the virus,” Parmar added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/in-lockdown-maths-teacher-unlocks-puzzles-for-children/articleshow/75071760.cms||Vijaysinh Parmar
April 10, 2020||Ahmedabad||Don’t let the dogs out||Ahmedabad: Who let the dogs out? City cops have trained their lockdown scanner on pet-owners who are increasingly being spotted on city roads, walking their pet dogs. Vastrapur police of the city booked two persons on Wednesday evening and Thursday morning when they walked out with their dogs. In the first case, a Vastrapur resident Palak Rao, 27, was booked for violation of the state home department's notification ordering lockdown when she walked out with her dog near Parth Indraprastha tower on Wednesday evening. The FIR states that the woman found walking with her dog when a team of Vastrapur police was patrolling in the Vastrapur area. When asked on why she was roaming out, she did not give any satisfactory answer. After which, she was booked under IPC Section 188. TOI spoke to Rao who said that their dog is trained to relieve himself outside the society. “While I manage to make it do his job in the morning at home, in the evening, the pet has to step out. He obviously does not know the restrictions imposed due to lockdown,” said Rao. In another case, Kailash Lodhi, 19, was booked when he was walking with his dog near Vastrapur lake. He too was booked for violation of notification.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/dont-let-the-dogs-out/articleshow/75073705.cms||---
April 10, 2020||Rajkot||Jamnagar police deliver essentials at people’s doorsteps||Rajkot: While police in Jamnagar are enforcing the coronavirus lockdown order, they are also ensuring that essential commodities including vegetables and milk are delivered at the doorsteps of the citizens. Jamnagar superintendent of police Sharad Singhal told TOI: “We have tied up with a few wholesalers who provide us necessary commodities on no profit no loss basis. A team of ex-servicemen and the police sells these commodities in the residential areas, maintaining a proper social distancing with the customers.” The officials of A division police station started this pilot project on Sunday in Darbargadh, Bardhanchowk and Teen Darwaja localities. The project will be implemented by other police stations every soon. The police have started the first experiment with vegetables which will later include other commodities. The police were prompted to take this decision after they saw the images captured by the drone cameras in which it was seen that vegetable vendors used to enter into residential societies where crowds of people would gather and indulge in chatting, breaking the rule of social distancing. “People should not violate social distancing rule even inside their societies. We have requested people to maintain social distancing, but to no avail. Hence we have taken this step which will help us ensure that people do maintain social distancing,” explained Singhal.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/jamnagar-police-deliver-essentials-at-peoples-doorsteps/articleshow/75071788.cms||Nimesh Khakhariya
April 10, 2020||Ahmedabad||Cops can now fine and release vehicles||Ahmedabad: The state transport department on Thursday issued a notification authorizing police of the rank of head constable or above to compound offences related to detention of vehicles during the lockdown. The notification will stay in force until the lockdown is lifted. Persons whose vehicles get impounded for violating the lockdown have to visit the police point as well as the RTO to get their vehicles released. In a bid to ensure that social distancing is maintained, police of the rank of head constable or above can now compound offences related to detention of vehicles by charging a fine and releasing the vehicle. As part of its ongoing drive to enforce the lockdown across the state, cops have been detaining vehicles of people who violate provisions of the lockdown.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/cops-can-now-fine-and-release-vehicles/articleshow/75073703.cms||---
April 10, 2020||Mangaluru||Wenlock Hosp ready to take on Covid-19 by the horns||Mangaluru: Upbeat over the discharge of four Covid-19 patients on Monday, out of 12 people who have tested positive for the disease in the district, the Dakshina Kannada district administration is not letting its guard down. It has strengthened its preparedness to meet any unforeseen exigency that the pandemic may bring to its doorsteps. The new superspeciality block at Wenlock Hospital has been readied to meet this challenge, with various agencies working in tandem. Dr Sadashiva, district surgeon and superintendent, Wenlock Hospital, who explained about the measures taken by them to the media, said protocols mandated by WHO and the ministry of health and family welfare, in tackling this pandemic, have been met in developing this exclusive Covid-19 facility, for the district that has been declared a hotspot. Three floors of this superspeciality block have been readied with 227 beds, including an ICU, to deal with a possible outbreak, he said. Aiding him in this task is John Thomas Ramapuram, medical superintendent, KMC Hospital, Attavar, and his team from internal medicine. Dr Ramapuram said the facility set up in the superspeciality block is state-of-the-art, in terms of treatment and care, in the present circumstances. A team of 230 nursing staff from KMC, government nursing staff and those under NHM are on hand to assist doctors in the fight against Covid-19. Currently, the Covid-19 patients are being housed in the Ayush block. Dr Sadashiva said patients suspected to be suffering from Covid-19, and those who are confirmed to be Covid-19 patients, are housed on different floors in individual rooms. We have followed the same in the superspeciality block, with the 3rd floor having 79 beds for those suspected to have Covid-19, and second floor with 99 beds for confirmed cases, and first floor with 49 beds for critical patients. The authorities have also set up 22 other high dependency units (HDU), including 10 in the old block of Wenlock Hospital, 10 in the regional advanced paediatric care centre, and two paediatric ICUs. The whole system of processing patients from the time one comes to the hospital, to their discharge, has been mapped, with each person assigned a specific role to ensure that the district gains the upper hand in its fight against the pandemic, Dr Sadashiva said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mangaluru/wenlock-hosp-ready-to-take-on-covid-19-by-the-horns/articleshow/75071793.cms||Jaideep Shenoy
April 10, 2020||Bareilly||Police raids force Bareilly village males to run away, leaving families to fend for themselves||Bareilly: Most male residents of Chaudhary Karampur village, who belong to the minority community, have gone into hiding fearing police action. Police are conducting frequent raids to arrest the remaining individuals who are alleged to have attacked a team of cops, including an additional SP, and tried to set a police outpost on fire on April 6. Around 200 people, 150 of them unidentified, were booked and 49 have been arrested so far. In the absence of male family members, women are facing a lot of hardship managing their homes. This comes at a time when locals are busy harvesting the wheat crop. Samajwadi Party leader and former state minister Bhagwat Saran Gangwar on Thursday met DIG Rajesh Pandey and requested him to bring the lives of villagers back on track, what with hundreds of residents running scared of the cops, and in their absence, their families suffering from lack of food and medicines, after most shops in the village closed due to lockdown. The Izzatnagar SHO was seen distributing food among villagers while children were working in the fields in the absence of the elders. Some women could be seen sitting outside the gates of their houses, but there was no one on the roads, what with a curfew-like situation in the village. Villagers said they hoped for some respite after Izzatnagar SHO K K Verma made an announcement in the village, asking residents to return. However, with 150 unidentified men still charged in the FIR, they are under fear that anyone could be charged by police once they return. Jahanaara Begum (65) said, “My son and grandson have left the village after the incident, because police charged every male in the village. My children were not involved in it, but who do we approach? Heavy police force is deployed outside the village and people have been held while attempting to enter. Shops haven’t opened for three days and there is no one to take care of the elderly and the children.” Gangwar told TOI, “The DIG has assured he will see to it that innocent villagers are not penalised. I have also requested villagers to return home. SSP Shailesh Pandey said, “We have not forced anyone to leave the village and I would request them to return home and lead a normal life. We will take action only against those people, against whom we have conclusive evidence like video footage. We have also asked the local SHO to announce the same in the village, and provide support to families of the people who are facing difficulties in fetching food or medicines.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/police-raids-force-bareilly-village-males-to-run-away-leaving-families-to-fend-for-themselves/articleshow/75072911.cms||Kanwardeep Singh
April 10, 2020||Kolkata||B’desh barge sinks, crew of 8 rescued||Kulpi (South 24 Parganas): A Bangladeshi cargo barge carrying flyash to Chittagong sank in the Bay Bengal off the Sandheads late on Wednesday. All eight crew members were rescued by another cargo ship, which brought them to Kulpi early on Thursday. The sailors said that the vessel, MV TOFA &TARIF-4, was hit by a Bangladeshi cargo barge. They had anchored their ship at Ghoramara Islands around 9pm, waiting for high tide, when the other vessel hit the edge. The collision caused a hole, through which water started gushing in. Six of the men on board jumped off and started swimming. One of them, Imran Taher, said: “We were rescued by another passing vessel. This ship then rescued our captain and another crew member, who were still on board the barge. It completely sank around 4.30am.” The other barge remained unharmed and had sailed away. SP Sunderbans Vaibhav Tiwari said: “Our police team reached the Sandheads early on Thursday and saw that the cargo vessel had drowned. As its crew members are all Bangladesh nationals, we have kept them in the Kormotirtho government quarantine centre at Kulpi. All World Health Organization norms are being observed and strict watch is being kept on them.” Another barge, MV Dhrubo Rupant I, that was also carrying flyash suffered engine failure and hit an electric post between Sagar Islands and Kachuberia around 6 pm.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/bdesh-barge-sinks-crew-of-8-rescued/articleshow/75074423.cms||Monotosh Chakraborty
April 10, 2020||Delhi||Manish Sisodia hints at extension of lockdown in Delhi||NEW DELHI: The lockdown in the capital may be extended beyond April 14 if the Covid-19-positive cases continue to rise in a similar manner as prevalent now. “The final decision to extend the lockdown will be taken on April 13 or 14,” deputy CM Manish Sisodia told TOI. The duration of the extension will be decided after the government reviews the current situation. The hint of the lockdown being extended in Delhi follows Odisha government’s decision to keep restrictions in place till April 30. The fight against coronavirus has entered a crucial phase in Delhi. A house in C-Block of Defence Colony was sealed on Thursday after three people with foreign travel history were suspected to be infected with novel coronavirus. However, the entire block was not turned into a containment zone. The government also converted Sadar Bazar and Shastri Market in South Moti Bagh into containment zones. This takes the total number of containment zones from 21 to 23. A screening exercise of residents showing symptoms of Covid-19 was started on Thursday. The drive is likely to be intensified. All containment zones are under observation of police and district authorities. No person can move within the zone for any purpose and no outsider can enter such areas. An FIR will be lodged against people who violate the containment order. Delhi government has already made it compulsory for everyone stepping out of their houses to wear masks to prevent the spread of the virus.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/sisodia-hints-at-extension-of-lockdown/articleshow/75074237.cms||AlokKNMishra
April 10, 2020||Coimbatore||317 kin of Covid-19 patients tested in Coimbatore||COIMBATORE: More than a week after 58 attendees of Tablighi Jamaat (TJ) conference in Delhi from the district tested positive for Covid-19, the public health department has begun screening their family members for coronavirus infection. The move comes after wife of one of the TJ meet attendees died of the virus attack in the Theni medical college hospital and four other attendees from Villupuram who tested negative initially tested positive for the contagion. The district is all set to receive its first consignment of rapid card test kits for the virus on Saturday. Based on the state health department’s instruction on Wednesday, public health officials had collected nasal swabs from 93 family members of the 21 Covid-19 patients from Mettupalayam and five other patients from Annur the same evening. Dr G Ramesh Kumar, deputy director of public health, said, “We have taken 71 samples from Mettupalayam and 22 from Annur.” On Thursday, officials began collecting nasal swabs from 194 family members of the 24 people, who tested positive for the virus in the city corporation limits. The official said they would also collect nasal swabs from 30 relatives of the six Covid-19 patients from Annamalai and Pollachi. “The sample collection process is going on,” he said. The family of the railway engineer in Podanur is also likely to be screened for the virus attack. The Spain returnee’s family has already tested negative for the virus. The health department had initially refused to test the Covid-19 patient’s family members, who were not having symptoms, citing the WHO guidelines that said to test only symptomatic people. They were, however, advised to remain in home quarantine. But the spike in deaths seems to have brought about a change in testing protocols. While all the collected nasal swab (from 317 people) would be put through the reverse transcription polymerase chain reaction (RT-PCR) test, which would detect the presence of nucleic acid from the SARS-CoV2 virus, the district health department is bracing up to conduct rapid card tests in low-risk clusters. The first set of rapid car test kits, which could be used to screen a person for the presence of antibodies to the virus in their blood, is expected to arrive on Saturday, Dr Ramesh Kumar said. “We are expecting around 500 kits in the first installment. They will be used to screen people, who tested negative for the virus but have had contact with the people who tested positive, and their family members. We are exploring ways to use them most efficiently,” he said. Meanwhile, the ESI Hospital has installed a walk-in sample collection kiosk (Covid WISK), where one could submit nasal swab or blood sample to be tested. The doctor or nurse at the kiosk won’t be exposed to the one who is providing the sample and as such they don’t have to use a personal protection equipment kit. The Coimbatore Medical College and Hospital is also in the process of installing the kiosk.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/health-dept-tests-317-kin-of-covid-19-patients-in-district/articleshow/75073662.cms||Pratiksha Ramkumar
April 10, 2020||Chandigarh||Chandigarh: Chargesheet filed in nurse murder case||CHANDIGARH: The Chandigarh Police has submitted a chargesheet against Maninder Singh, accused of killing a 28-year-old nurse Sarabjit Kaur, in the court of duty magistrate here. Since the accused was already convicted in a murder case and was out on parole when he allegedly committed the crime, Section 303 (murder by a life convict), apart from Section 302 (murder) of the IPC, has also been added in the chargesheet. The most important material evidence attached with the chargesheet are videos of voluntary confessions made by the accused, which were aired live on a private news channel, after which he was arrested. The chargesheet also mentions around 25 witnesses. As the courts are not functioning due to Covid-19 outbreak, the copy of chargesheet will be handed over to the accused once the court issues orders to present him in person, and then the process to frame charges against him will begin. The accused was arrested by the UT police on January 14 from the office of a news channel, where he had gone to confess his crime on air. He reportedly confessed before the police that he attacked the deceased with knife, as he suspected she had another affair with someone else. On Thursday, he was produced in court after his police custody came to an end. Now, he has been sent to judicial custody. On January 1, the 29-year-old nurse working in a private hospital in Mohali was found murdered in a room of a hotel in Industrial Area Phase II. Sarabjit Kaur’s throat had been slit with a sharp-edged weapon. Earlier, Maninder Singh, 31, a resident of Sector 30, had murdered a woman at a park near Karna Lake in Karnal in 2010. Sarabjit, who belonged to Sangrur in Punjab and was residing in Gracier Hostel in Sector 69 of Mohali, had booked the room at Hotel Sky for two days on December 30. She had checked in with Maninder and was to check out on January 1. But, as she did not come out of the room until 1.30pm and also did not respond to repeated knocks, an employee opened the door with a master key and found her lying in a pool of blood.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/chargesheet-filed-in-nurse-murder-case/articleshow/75072913.cms||Neha Sharma
April 10, 2020||Chandigarh||Another Jawaharpur villager tests positive||MOHALI: With one more person testing positive on Thursday, Jawaharpur village in Mohali’s Derabassi has become an epicentre of Covid-19 cases. Of the Mohali’s count of 37, as many as 22 cases (59.45%) are from the village alone. On Wednesday, 10 of Jawaharpur villagers had tested positive. All its cases are allegedly contacts of a 42-year-old panch who had reportedly contracted the infection from a Tablighi Jamaat attendee. Mohali civil surgeon Dr Manjit Singh said, “The new case is the 67-year-old father of the sarpanch. He has been admitted to Gian Sagar Hospital in Banur.” They were all involved in distributing community food to the poor and were contacts of the earlier positive cases. All the patients are responding well to treatment. Most of those who tested positive are from the village panchayat and related to each other. Strict directions have been issued to the village residents against stepping out of their houses. “House-to-house surveys are being conducted in neighbouring villages too. On Thursday, 54 more samples were taken. The sealed villages also include Mukandpur, Devi Nagar and Haripur Kurha,” said the DC. Meanwhile, in the past four days, five persons have been discharged from hospitals after they recovered from the disease. The DC said Mohali has the highest Covid-19 positive cases (37) in Punjab. Earlier it was Nawanshahar with 19 cases. The district has seen a death too.  “Till date, 629 samples had been taken in the district, of which 37 were positive and 524 negative,” the civil surgeon added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/another-jawaharpur-villager-tests-positive/articleshow/75072928.cms||Barinderjit Saluja
April 10, 2020||Nagpur||12 new cases in Vidarbha; Nagpur gets one more day of relief||NAGPUR: Surge in the number of Covid-19 cases continued for the second consecutive day on Thursday with 12 cases reported in Vidarbha. These include seven in Akola and five in Buldhana. With this, the total number of confirmed novel coronavirus (Covid-19) positive cases in Vidarbha have jumped to 62. Several samples, especially those from Nagpur division, are yet to be tested. Out of 12 new cases detected today, seven are from Akola. Collector Jitendra Papalkar said all of them are from Patur town in the district. “Total 13 persons from Patur had stayed in Badnera mosques along with a positive patient from Washim. Seven of them have been tested positive. This takes the total number of positive patients in Akola to 9,” he said. Akola had registered its first Covid-19 case on April 7 and the second on April 8. Both the cases were from Akola Municipal Council limit. However, the seven tested positive on Thursday are from rural parts of the district. “It’s a serious matter as some of them are from Shirla village near Patur. Entire village has been sealed and 60 teams of health workers are conducting health check-up of every resident,” said Papalkar. Buldhana continued to record new patients even on Thursday. Total five samples from the district were tested positive on Thursday. They were checked at AIIMS Nagpur. District collector Suman Rawat Chandra said there are now 17 confirmed positive cases in Buldhana. “We came to know by late evening that total five samples from Buldhana have tested positive. We are still to get the details of the positive patients,” the collector said. Sources in Nagpur said three of the five patients are from Shegaon and Deulgaon Raja towns, while two others are from Buldhana. They are from the close contacts of the positive patients. Apart from Akola and Buldhana, no other city in Vidarbha recorded any positive patient on Thursday. Total 47 samples from Nagpur were tested at Mayo Hospital laboratory, none of them was positive. Total 31 samples were sent from Amravati for testing, all of them along with yesterday’s three are pending. In a welcome development for city and Vidarbha, the testing facility at GMCH Nagpur started functioning on Thursday. Total 28 samples were taken for tests on the first day. Results were expected by late Thursday night. Now, the city has three full-fledged functional labs. Out of them, AIIMS will deal with the samples from Amravati division, while the lab at Mayo Hospital will test samples from Nagpur division. GMCH lab will focus on the city-based suspects who get admitted to the same hospital.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/12-new-cases-in-vid-nagpur-gets-one-more-day-of-relief/articleshow/75073709.cms||Chaitanya Deshpande
April 10, 2020||Dehradun||Uttarakhand Special police officers to keep vigil in sealed colonies||DEHRADUN: Uttarakhand police headquarters on Thursday issued an order of appointing special police officers (SPOs) in the sealed colonies and areas that have emerged as hotspot of novel coronavirus in the state. The SPOs would be appointed from among the civilian population and would be “distinguished residents” of the area, officials said, adding that the decision is aimed at having better coordination between police and residents in ensuring effective lockdown. Incidentally, several areas and localities in Uttarakhand have been sealed after some members of Tablighi Jamaat living in those areas tested positive of Covid-19. Four areas in Dehradun, two in Haridwar and one in Nainital were sealed after cases of COVID-19 were found in the particular localities. According to Ashok Kumar, director general (DG) law and order, “The decision to appoint SPOs will help police in having better coordination with the civil society and enforcing the lockdown effectively. SPOs will be responsible for inner-cordon only, as police are already deployed outside those sealed areas.” Responsibility of the SPOs would include enforcing the lockdown effectively inside the cordoned area, sharing of information with police and maintaining peace in the area. The SPO’s would act as a one-point-contact for the residents who are in need of some essentials. They will also keep on updating police about the situation inside the sealed area. Kumar added that appointed person in each locality could be given a SPO card by the police, adding that, “The SPOs will not take police work, while they will only help police in effective enforcement of the lockdown to contain spread of COVID-19.” On the other hand, the state government on Thursday appointed nodal officers at district level to establish coordination between civil society organizations and non-government organizations (NGOs) for helping the daily wageworkers and needy people who have been the worst hit by the lockdown.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/special-police-officers-to-keep-vigil-in-sealed-colonies/articleshow/75072921.cms||Gaurav Talwar
April 10, 2020||Vijayawada||Dist admin imposes curbs on relief distribution by NGOs||Guntur: The district administration has imposed curbs on NGOs taking part in relief measures. NGOs will not be allowed to go around the city and distribute food packets and groceries. Instead, those keen to distribute relief material will have to register and handover the material to the district administration. The staff of Mission of Elimination of Poverty in Municipal Areas (MEPMA) will segregate the material and distribute them to the needy. “Although we appreciate the generous and kind attitude of many NGOs, trusts and individuals who have come forward to supply relief material, we have decided to regulate the distribution activity keeping in view of the spread of Covid-19,” said district collector I Samuel Anand Kumar. He said allowing NGOs or political parties to gather people in big numbers to distribute the material would pose threat to all including those funding the programmes. He said that they have received reports that people are mobilising the poor in big numbers for easy distribution without following social distancing norms. “We have decided not to allow NGOs or political parties to take up relief activities on their own as it will hamper containment measures. We appeal to all philanthropists, NGOs, trusts and individuals who wish to take part in charity activities to handover the relief material to the MEMPA officials. Our staff will visit and distribute the material to the poor at their doorstep,” said the collector.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/dist-admin-imposes-curbs-on-relief-distribution-by-ngos/articleshow/75072939.cms||---
April 10, 2020||Rajkot||Two arrested for hurting religious sentiments||Rajkot: Two persons were booked for allegedly circulating two communally sensitive audio clips in Bhavnagar on Thursday. The accused were identified as Ashoksinh Gohil, president of Bhavnagar Vishwa Hindu Parishad and Bajrang Dal, and Abid Pancha. “Both Gohil and Pancha had allegedly circulated the audio clips in which they expressed hurtful statements against each other’s religions,” said N G Jadeja, sub-inspector with Bhavnagar local crime branch. TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/two-arrested-for-hurting-religious-sentiments/articleshow/75073667.cms||---
April 10, 2020||Bareilly||Police raids force Bareilly village males to run away, leaving families to fend for themselves||Bareilly: Most male residents of Chaudhary Karampur village, who belong to the minority community, have gone into hiding fearing police action. Police are conducting frequent raids to arrest the remaining individuals who are alleged to have attacked a team of cops, including an additional SP, and tried to set a police outpost on fire on April 6. Around 200 people, 150 of them unidentified, were booked and 49 have been arrested so far. In the absence of male family members, women are facing a lot of hardship managing their homes. This comes at a time when locals are busy harvesting the wheat crop. Samajwadi Party leader and former state minister Bhagwat Saran Gangwar on Thursday met DIG Rajesh Pandey and requested him to bring the lives of villagers back on track, what with hundreds of residents running scared of the cops, and in their absence, their families suffering from lack of food and medicines, after most shops in the village closed due to lockdown. The Izzatnagar SHO was seen distributing food among villagers while children were working in the fields in the absence of the elders. Some women could be seen sitting outside the gates of their houses, but there was no one on the roads, what with a curfew-like situation in the village. Villagers said they hoped for some respite after Izzatnagar SHO K K Verma made an announcement in the village, asking residents to return. However, with 150 unidentified men still charged in the FIR, they are under fear that anyone could be charged by police once they return. Jahanaara Begum (65) said, “My son and grandson have left the village after the incident, because police charged every male in the village. My children were not involved in it, but who do we approach? Heavy police force is deployed outside the village and people have been held while attempting to enter. Shops haven’t opened for three days and there is no one to take care of the elderly and the children.” Gangwar told TOI, “The DIG has assured he will see to it that innocent villagers are not penalised. I have also requested villagers to return home. SSP Shailesh Pandey said, “We have not forced anyone to leave the village and I would request them to return home and lead a normal life. We will take action only against those people, against whom we have conclusive evidence like video footage. We have also asked the local SHO to announce the same in the village, and provide support to families of the people who are facing difficulties in fetching food or medicines.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/police-raids-force-bareilly-village-males-to-run-away-leaving-families-to-fend-for-themselves/articleshow/75072936.cms||Kanwardeep Singh
April 10, 2020||Rajkot||Seven test positive in village near Siddhpur||Palanpur: Seven people in Nedrana village, some 10 km from Siddhpur town of Patan district, tested positive for Covid-19 on Thursday.All those who tested positive at the Dharpur Medical College, Patan, were local villagers whose samples were taken for testing after a man who had returned from Mumbai had succumbed to the infection on April.. District development officer (DDO), Patan, DK Parikh told TOI that 15 people had returned along with the 47-year-old man Lukman Eraiya, who died, and samples of three had tested positive earlier. “Later, we took samples of more people from the village and seven tested positive on Thursday.” Out of seven, four are women and three men. The entire village has been mass quarantined and entry of outsiders has been banned. In another incident, a bank manager with Meghraj Grameen Bank, was booked for escaping from home quarantine on Thursday. The manager Divyang Jani was in Ahmedabad from March 7 and had rejoined duty on Tuesday. He was asked to stay home quarantined as precautionary measure. Modasa chief district health officer Ambarnath Verma told TOI today that a missing persons complaint has been lodged by the mamlatdar as Jani is not traceable.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/seven-test-positive-in-village-near-siddhpur/articleshow/75071815.cms||---
April 10, 2020||Ahmedabad||Two denied bail for violation of lockdown||Ahmedabad: A city sessions court on Thursday denied bail to two persons accused of throwing stones at policemen who were enforcing lockdown in Gomtipur area on April 1. Gomtipur police had booked 16 persons for rioting by targeting a police party, which tried to enforce lockdown in the area. In all, five persons had been arrested and two of them sought bail claiming innocence. They claimed that the incident of stone pelting had taken place because police stopped some people from going to a PDS shop to collect free grain, the accused submitted. However, public prosecutor Sudhir Brahmbhatt argued that the accused persons were out in public place in violation of orders issued for the lockdown due to the coronavirus pandemic. The accused had defied police orders and pelted stones at the police party injuring a policeman in his head. After hearing the bail pleas, the court said that it appeared that while police were patrolling the area to enforce lockdown, some 20 persons got together and violated the norms of the lockdown and the public notification. They did not return to their places despite police warning. The court reasoned it is not proper to grant bail to them or else they would repeat the offence.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/two-denied-bail-for-violation-of-lockdown/articleshow/75073699.cms||---
April 10, 2020||Mumbai||Coronavirus: ‘False negatives’ queer anti-Covid fight||MUMBAI: A Mumbai doctor who developed dry cough and fever was relieved to test negative for Covid-19 at the BMC-run Kasturba Hospital laboratory recently. His relief, though, turned into dismay a couple of days later when he tested positive at a private hospital he drove himself to, due to worsening of his symptoms; he continues in hospital. Elsewhere in the city, a 30-year-old man tested negative in a private hospital only to test positive later at Kasturba. False negative reports are clearly emerging as an additional challenge amid a raging epidemic. “There is a big problem of false negatives,” said Dr Jayanti Shastri, head of civic-run Kasturba Hospital’s Molecular Diagnostic Laboratory, which is the main testing centre. Studies from Wuhan, the Chinese province where the Covid-19 pandemic began, found false negative reports could be as high as 30%. A third of all Covid patients could thus receive a negative result—despite exhibiting clinical symptoms. A false negative result means a patient’s test results are “negative” even though he harbours the virus. Such patients get sent back from hospitals or, worse, they get a false sense of relief, drop their guard, and spread the infection at home and within the community. Experts listed a series of reasons—the nature of the virus, the incubation period of the infection, improper collection of samples, types of kits available in the market and so on. “There needs to be an adequate amount of viruses in the body for a test to detect it. This is called limit of detection by equipment,’’ said Dr Shastri. She said the ideal time to test would be five days into the infection when there is adequate viral load. However, infectious diseases specialists like Dr Tanu Singhal said the test’s sensitivity drops beyond seven days of symptoms. Coronavirus waxes and wanes in patients, can give false -ve resultDoctors agree patients (especially those without symptoms) have no foolproof way of knowing if they are in their fifth or seventh day of infection. Mumbai doctors have found another “mischievous” fact about the novel coronavirus—its presence in the patient’s body waxes and wanes every day, contributing to the false negative tests. “A patient may test negative today, but will test positive a few days later,” said Shastri, adding that is the reason the BMC discharges a patient only after two consecutive tests taken 24 hours apart are negative. “The virus presents a lot of public health dilemmas or it is like an enigma,” said Dr Shastri. The Wuhan study looked at two groups of positive patients—severe and mild. It found sputum samples showed the highest positivity in both groups: 89.9% in severe and 82.2% in mild. Nasal swabs, though, had a positivity of 73.3% in severe cases and 72.1% in mild ones while it was further down for throat swabs (60%, 61.3%, respectively). Doctors here, too, report similar findings. Dr Nilesh Shah of Metropolis Laboratory said nasopharyngeal swabs have to be taken from “deep inside”. “If the collection isn’t done properly, you are likely to get a negative even if the patient has the virus,” he said. Dr Singhal said published medical literature showed nasopharyngeal and oropharyngeal swabs in ideal conditions detect 50-60% of cases. “This sensitivity drops further if the collection method is not proper or if a sample is not transported and processed properly,” added Dr Singhal. Moreover, there are several Covid test kits available in the market. Each kit may have different sensitivity and show different results. A public hospital doctor said they rely heavily on a patient’s clinical symptoms. “We have seen cases where patients test negative despite their CT showing a coronaaffected lung,” said the doctor. However, the doctor added a word of caution: “This doesn't mean the test is unreliable. It only means people should follow the 14-day quarantine rule even if they test negative.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/false-negatives-queer-anti-covid-fight/articleshow/75074234.cms||Malathy Iyer
April 10, 2020||Thiruvananthapuram||Thiruvananthapuram corp shortlists first-line treatment centres||Thiruvananthapuram: The city corporation has identified seven places which could be converted into Covid first-line treatment centres (CFLTC) in the city. The places which now function as Covid care homes will be converted to fit the requirements of CFLTC. The care homes are now housing persons in transit and those under surveillance. IMG hostel at Bartonhill, corporation’s training centre at Manvila and agriculture department’s guest house, Samethi, at Anayara are the first three buildings suggested by officials. Other four are hostels of educational institutions which need to be vetted by health department officials before officially being added to the list. The local self-government department has instructed corporation to equip facilities that could accommodate 500 persons at a time. The civic body has also made a list of rooms in hotels and spaces in auditoriums and convention centres which could be used as CFLTC. The health department has stressed the need to identify centres as CFLTC considering a situation where more number of primary contacts are turning positive and more number of patients will have to be admitted. The centre identified as CFLTC will treat all mild and moderate symptomatic persons under surveillance and will be utilised for treating positive cases, when need arises. The idea is to use these places as primary level health care centres which will tend to less serious cases and enable referral of serious cases to Covid hospitals to avoid crowding directly in the Covid hospital and wastage of resources, as per the guidelines issued by state health department. The city corporation’s responsibility is in identifying places which could be converted as first-line treatment centres. The district administration will prepare the list of healthcare professionals and post them to the health care centre. As per the guidelines issued by state health department, persons with mild symptoms can be treated at these centres. It will have an observation area, treatment area and at least 10-25 beds for observation. Corporation officials said that IMG, Manvila training centre and Samethi are some of the places which are most suited for conversion into CFLTC. The officials have also identified privately-owned training centres and assembly houses which could be used for this purpose. The district administration has also identified nearly 16,000 rooms in the district which could be used as Covid care centres and CFLTCs. These rooms have been identified across hotels, lodges, convention centres and other buildings in the district in various local bodies. With lockdown period ending on April 14 and future course of action still remaining undecided, the health team is apprehensive of a surge in cases mainly among primary or secondary contacts with inflow of people to the city and unrestricted movement. Cases with moderate symptoms will be mostly dealt at the primary level using CFLTCs saving space and other facilities in hospitals for more serious cases.  The state government plans to arrange 35,000 beds under CFLTCs in the state. This will be in addition to the one lakh beds available in government and private hospitals.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/thiruvananthapuram/corp-shortlists-first-line-treatment-centres-in-capital/articleshow/75071824.cms||Aswin J Kumar
April 10, 2020||Thiruvananthapuram||Kerala CM urges Modi to ensure safety of NRKs in the Gulf||Thiruvananthapuram: Chief minister Pinarayi Vijayan has written to Prime Minister Narendra Modi seeking his intervention to ensure safety and welfare of Keralites trapped in Middle East countries, especially the United Arab Emirates (UAE), where one million out of 2.8 million Indian migrants are from Kerala. The letter to the PM was sent on Thursday after the Non-Resident Keralites Affairs (Norka) department, with the help of Pravasi Malayali organizations, set up five helpdesks in the UAE. “The situation in Dubai is worsening. We are receiving number of complaints regarding inadequate isolation and quarantine facilities in the country and apprehensions are being raised about the imminent community spread of disease,” the CM’s letter said pointing out that ‘preventive measures and quarantine methods in Dubai are neither effective nor adequate’. “The majority of Keralites are blue collar workers and living in crowded facilities in Dubai and therefore the probability of spreading of the disease is very high. In the circumstances, the government of Kerala is very much concerned about the safety and well-being of our diaspora in Dubai,” the letter to the PM said. Later, the CM said, that Indian ambassadors in countries like the UAE and Kuwait have informed Norka about their interventions on various demands being raised by the NRKs like deferring school fee and arrangements for renewal of passports and visas which are getting expired. Meanwhile, Covid helpdesks have been set up in various emirates of the UAE including Fujairah, Al Ain, Dubai, Abu Dhabi and Ras Al-Khaimah, and one will be set up soon in Sharjah. The Norka will be setting up dedicated ‘Covid helpdesks’ in countries where there is a substantial number of pravasi Malayalis, the CM had announced on Wednesday. The helpdesks are to be managed locallywith the support of respective Indian ambassadors. The details of these helpdesks are available on the Norka Roots website https://norkaroots.org/web/guest/covid-services.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/thiruvananthapuram/cm-urges-modi-to-ensure-safety-of-nrks-in-the-gulf/articleshow/75071825.cms||---
April 10, 2020||Kolhapur||Probe launched to find more people who travelled to Delhi||KOLHAPUR: With the administrations tracing as many as 150 people from Satara, Sangli, Kolhapur and Solapur districts, who had attended the Tabligh Jamaat event in New Delhi last month, a separate investigation has been launched to verify how many more people had gone to the national capital during the same period. Senior officers in the police said they were conducting an independent investigation because of which they could find out more people who had attended Tabligh Jamaat function. They said they had found around 40 people from Pune, Satara, Sangli, Kolhapur and Solapur districts whose names did not figure in the list of Tabligh Jamaat attendees provided by the Union home ministry. Special IG (Kolhapur Range) Suhas Warke told TOI that police conducted meetings with the prominent figures in the Muslim community from time to time to get more names. He hinted that police would not hesitate to initiate legal action if anyone was hiding their travel history despite the repeated appeals. In Kolhapur, the district administration has become more cautious after a suspected patient,who had attended the Tabligh Jamaat meeting, tested positive for Covid-19. The administration, with the help of the police, has traced all the 20 people from Kolhapur district who attended the religious gathering in Delhi and put them in institutional quarantine in Panhala. Besides identifying the people who may have come in close contact with the attendees, the administration is also trying to find out what mode of transport did they use to return from Delhi to Kolhapur. Some of them are believed to have returned by train. The administration became more alert after additional names cropped up while recording the statements of the people put in institutional quarantine. Kolhapur district collector Daulat Desai told TOI that 16 people who attended the Tabligh Jamaat event were from Shahuwadi taluka alone and one among them had tested positive for the contagion. When asked if the positive case associated with the Tabligh Jamaat event would force the administration to change their strategy for Covid-19 identification and resolution, Desai said they would not change their strategy and consider the present case as any other regular case. “We are tracing the major and minor contacts and there is absolutely nothing to worry,” he said. Notably, this is the fourth confirmed Covid-19 case in Kolhapur district and the first one associated with the Tabligh Jamaat event. Meanwhile, Solapur district collector has published an advertisement in local newspapers appealing to all those who had participated in the Tabligh Jamaat procession to volunteer and contact the local administration for medical checkup. Officials from the district admnistration said that the advertisement had been published as they believed more people had participated in the religious gathering. “We cannot rule out this possibility though we have traced all the names provided in the list. Some may have gone without the knowledge of the locals here,” said an official. The administration has not received any response with regard to the advertisement in the last three days.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolhapur/probe-launched-to-find-more-people-who-travelled-to-delhi/articleshow/75073668.cms||---
April 10, 2020||Ahmedabad||These cancer winners spread message of safety with masks||Ahmedabad: It was not a routine challenge on social media for these women at home when Addlife Foundation, Ahmedabad, called upon state-based cancer survivors to show their best creativity for safety – the foundation asked its members to send in decorated handmade masks.Namisha Gandhi, founder of the initiative, said that it had a two-pronged approach. “The first was of course to encourage all to use masks – even if it’s not procured from the market. The second motive was to see positivity in the circumstances and add colour to the masks which have emerged as a symbol for the global pandemic,” she said.And the results were encouraging. Jalpa Thakker, a cancer survivor, and her daughter Yashvi decorated their masks with fresh flowers. “The masks are always seen as protective gear – why can’t they be seen differently? Of course, the flowers are not permanent, but it suddenly changed the surgical appearance of the mask,” said Thakker, a gardening aficionado.Krishna Shah, another cancer survivor from Ahmedabad, said that she had been wearing a mask even before the outbreak. “After the treatment, immunity remains low for some time and doctors advise to wear a mask so as to avoid any infection. I had thus learnt to make masks at home – a skill which has come in handy,” she said. The first mask she made was in fact offered to the deity of the house to ensure his safety, said Shah. The Foundation officials said that some of the family members of cancer winners sent in masks with decorative pieces, made with herbs attached or even decorated it with small mascots to make them more appealing for the children.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/these-cancer-winners-spread-message-of-safety-with-masks/articleshow/75073698.cms||Parth Shastri
April 10, 2020||Chandigarh||Chandigarh: 10,441 curfew violators detained in 18 days||CHANDIGARH: On an average, 580 curfew violators have been detained from different parts of the city from March 23 to April 9. Sources said police have caught 10,441 violators in the last 18 days. Police registered 138 FIRs and arrested 165 persons under Section 188 (Disobedience to order duly promulgated by public servant , 269 (negligent act likely to spread infection of disease dangerous to life) and 270 (malignant act likely to spread a deadly infection) of the IPC in 18 days. UT police registered four separate FIRs and booked four persons for sharing and posting videos against a particular community on social media. Police impounded 2,844 vehicles from curfew violators between March 23 and April 9. Maximum of 6,232 people were detained by six police stations in sectors 19 and 26, Manimajra, Mauli Jagran, IT Park and Industrial Area Phase-I of east division. Police from sectors 31, 34, 36, 39, 49 and Maloya in the south division caught 2,322 curfew violators till April 9. Police teams from sectors 3, 17, and 11 and Sarangpur apprehended 1,887 people in the past 18 days. Generally, curfew defaulters are detained at the Cricket Stadium in Sector 16 and the sports complex of Manimajra. They are released after submitting an undertaking that they will respect curfew rules. Police take their contact details before letting them go.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/10441-curfew-violators-detained-in-18-days/articleshow/75072931.cms||Pawan Tiwari
April 10, 2020||Chandigarh||Cremating, burying bodies of Covid-19 victims is safe: Civil surgeon||Times News NetworkMohali: There is no chance of transmission of coronavirus in a crematorium or burial area, the district health department said in a public advisory. Clearing people’s doubts over cremation of Covid-19 victims, civil surgeon Dr Manjit Singh said the infection is mainly transmitted through droplets. There is no risk of Covid-19 infection from a dead body to health workers, family members or people in the locality who follow standard precautions while handling the body. “Temperature generated during burning of bodies is 800 to 1,000 degrees Celsius, in which the deadly virus can no longer remain viable,” the advisory said. It quoted from World Health Organisation and Union health ministry guidelines to press the point that there is no evidence of people catching infection from bodies of those who die of Covid-19. Dr Manjit Singh said that if the protocol prescribed for transportation and disposal of bodies of Covid-19 positive persons is followed, there is no risk of any infection. He urged people not to panic as cremation of Covid-19 positive patient’s body does not pose any additional threat and even the ash does not pose any risk.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/cremating-burying-bodies-of-covid-19-victims-is-safe-civil-surgeon/articleshow/75072924.cms||---
April 10, 2020||Chandigarh||Keeping fingers crossed, will tell our model later: Parida||Chandigarh: “Bhilwara restrained coronavirus with ruthless containment, we did it through painless containment in Chandigarh,” said UT adviser Manoj Parida. While interacting with the city residents on Twitter, Parida, however, clarified that the UT administration does not want to take the risk of advertising Chandigarh model till the whole episode ended. “The UT administration must wait and watch and keep fingers crossed,” he added. No fresh case of Covid-19 has been reported in the city since April 3. On residents’ suggestion, the adviser assured them that the UT would conduct more testing.Till date, the city has recorded 18 positive cases, of which seven have been discharged. On rising cases in neighbouring Mohali district, especially Derabassi, he said they were in regular touch with the Mohali and Panchkula authorities and keeping a close tab on the situation. Meanwhile, the UT administration is preparing a crisis management plan in case the cases surge in the city.As per the proposed plan, different authorities, including the health department, will have to follow a contingency protocol. A three-level facility for housing the patients is being worked out. Covid care centres are proposed to be established for people with mild symptoms.Parkview, Panchayat Bhawan and other community bhawans are likely to house such a centre. Government Medical College and Hospital (GMCH), Sector 32, and Government Multi-Specialty Hospital (GMSH), Sector 16, will house covid health centre for positive cases with moderate symptoms. Covid exclusive facility for severe cases will be created in PGIMER and civil hospital, Sector 48. UT administrator VP Singh Badnore has already directed the administration to prepare the plan in view of surge in the number of cases across the country in the past one week. UT home-cum-health secretary Arun Kumar Gupta, along with medical experts, is preparing a Covid-19 management plan for an estimated population of 12-lakh of the city.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/keeping-fingers-crossed-will-tell-our-model-later-parida/articleshow/75072943.cms||Rajinder Nagarkoti
April 10, 2020||Chandigarh||Not wearing mask can land you behind bars in Chandigarh||CHANDIGARH: Wearing masks at public places in Chandigarh is mandatory now. The UT administration issued the order on Thursday. The violators will be immediately arrested, says the order. The decision was taken on April 7 during a review meeting chaired by UT administrator VP Singh Badnore. “Chandigarh is the first union territory in the country to make masks compulsory at public places,” said UT adviser Manoj Parida, who issued the orders as chairperson of the Chandigarh Disaster Management Authority under Section 22 of the Disaster Management Act, 2005. The order read, “All persons moving for whatsoever purpose and under whatever reason/authority in public places, like streets, hospitals, offices, and markets must wear a three-ply mask or cloth mask compulsorily.” The order stated, “Any person moving around in his personal and official vehicle must also wear masks… No person/officer/officials will attend any meeting/gathering without wearing masks. These masks may be standard mask available with the chemist or even homemade washable masks that can be reused after proper washing and disinfection.” The order gave power to police to arrest violators. It said, “It shall be the responsibility of the employer to ensure that his/her employees wear the three-ply mask or cloth mask without fail. Anybody violating these instructions will be punishable under Section 188 of the IPC (48 of 1860) and the police authorities are empowered to immediately arrest the violators. These instructions must be followed scrupulously.” Types of masksSurgical masks: The most commonly available form of masks in the market, these are the ones which are slightly loose-fitted around the mouth and protect a person against large splashes of droplets, water, sprays and are used at medical facilities. Since these are so popular and cost-effective, they also come in a variety of sizes, colours and types N95 masks: These respiratory masks are widely being used right now to lessen the spread of coronavirus. These are slightly more tight-fitted, making them a better alternative to surgical masks Activated carbon masks: As the name suggests, these contain an activated carbon filter, which helps collect and filter out pollutants and germs and breathe in purer air Cloth and sponge masks: Over the recent weeks, with an acute shortage of masks in the market and lack of protective gear available, many are turning to homemade masks made of different fabrics or sponge. While homemade masks do not match the effectiveness, they are better than having nothing at all to fight the spread of germs, especially during a pandemic situation||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/face-it-not-wearing-mask-can-land-you-behind-bars/articleshow/75072946.cms||Rajinder Nagarkoti
April 10, 2020||Dehradun||AIIMS Rishikesh develops system to remotely check health of patients||DEHRADUN: The All India Institute of Medical Sciences (AIIMS) at Rishikesh in collaboration with Bharat Electronics Limited (BEL) has developed a monitoring system that can remotely access the health of Covid-19 suspects/patients in both home and hospital quarantine. The system will significantly help in reducing the need of Personal Protection Equipment (PPE) kits and further reduce the exposure of healthcare workers to the patients, the institute’s officials said. Attached with sensors, the system is able to register temperature, pulse rate, and oxygen level of the patients and can be remotely accessed from a control room. RK Thapliyal from AIIMS Rishikesh told TOI that the Proof of Concept (PoC) monitoring system is designed from the data and inputs provided by the doctors of AIIMS. “An app/web browser has been developed for people to get enrolled with AIIMS Rishikesh once they showed symptoms of Covid-19. The doctors here will study the patient’s complaints and based on the assessment by clinical experts, a health monitoring kit will be given to the patients for periodical monitoring, said Thapliyal who added that patient’s data will be uploaded on the centralised command control room on cloud. This would be done by using patients’ mobile or SIM which will felicitate seamless scaling of database. The software will give out alerts to doctors if the pre-set parameters exceed the threshold and will record the severity of the case in different colours. The app will also help authorities to geographically map the Covid-19 cases to identify the hotspots and take necessary precautions.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/aiims-rishikesh-develops-system-to-remotely-check-health-of-patients/articleshow/75072937.cms||Ishita Mishra
April 10, 2020||Kozhikode||‘No proper treatment at M’luru hosp’||Kannur: Despite Karnataka government’s conditional permission to take patients from Kasaragod to Mangaluru hospitals for treatment, authorities there have restricted entry to only one hospital and this has made things worse. Those who faced the bitter experience allege that Karnataka’s permission is just a farce and the patients are not getting proper treatment. A 24-year-old woman from Kannur, who had to undergo a surgery following delivery-related complications last month, had to return on Wednesday night after she was not permitted to visit the hospital where she had the surgery. She had to wait for long hours without treatment in the hospital, said her husband Ashkar. Finally, Ashkar returned with her on Wednesday at night and took her to a hospital in Kannur on Thursday. Thasnima, a patient from Thalagara in Kasaragod, too faced a similar experience and she had to return without treatment, said her husband Abdul Rashid.Finally, he took her to a hospital in Kannur on Thursday. Yet another female patient from Kunjathur in Manjeshwar had to wait for long hours before getting treatment, said a relative. “My sister-in-law had to undergo scanning for her ailments. There was a huge delay at the hospital,” said Naushad Ahmed, who accompanied her. However, hospital authorities denied the allegations and cited protocol issues and government restrictions for the delay. “We came to know only on Wednesday that only our hospital would admit patients from Kerala but we cannot provide treatment without basic examinations, including the testing for Covid, hence the delay,” said Siddharth Shetty, a professor at KS Hegde Medical Academy. He said the hospital has to follow government directives and the delay is not deliberate.tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kozhikode/no-proper-treatment-at-mluru-hosp/articleshow/75071856.cms||---
April 10, 2020||Chandigarh||Relatives serving food to poor test Covid-19 positive||Mohali: After meeting a Covid-19 positive member of the Tablighi Jamaat, a resident of Jawaharpur village became instrumental in spreading the pandemic in the area. Till Thursday, 22 Covid-19 positive cases were detected in the village. All the patients are relatives who caught the infection while cooking and serving food to the poor, civil surgeon Dr Manjit Singh said.A panch of the village met a foreman from Delhi who attended the Tablighi Jamaat event. The man stayed in the village for a few days before leaving for Delhi. The panch, 42, owns a tenthouse which employs five to six labourers. He was the first to catch the infection from the foreman. Thereafter, he and his family members started distributing food in three villages of Jawaharpur, Mahmadpur and Devigarh. Engaged in the social cause, they did not foresee the aftermath of the exercise and ended up getting infected. Now, emergency has been declared in the village, which is yet to be declared a hot spot, deputy commissioner Girish Dayalan said.“Each and every house in Jawahrapur village has been sealed and extensive sampling is being conducted. Health teams are identifying symptomatic and asymptomatic persons from each house. Orders have been issued to make a list of those who participated in the distribution of langar with this family and also those who consumed the langar.”BOX— The first person to be infected was a 42-year-old panch of Jawaharpur village who came in contact with a patient and Tabilghi Jamaat member —Three family members of the panch tested positive for Covid-19—Family members of the panch who tested positive are his father, aged 67, brother (38) and wife (43).—Family of a woman sarpanch took part in serving food to poor and came in indirect contact. They are woman sarpanch, 39, her husband, 42, daughter, 19 and son, 12.—Family members who tested positive include a 61-year-old woman, her 35-year-old daughter-in-law and 16-year-old grandson. They were also involved in serving food — Other relatives include paternal and maternal cousins aged 56, 53, 61 and 56 All of them have been admitted to Gian Sagar Hospital in Banur||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/relatives-serving-food-to-poor-test-covid-19-positive/articleshow/75072941.cms||---
April 10, 2020||Delhi||School principals keep tab on hunger centres in Delhi||NEW DELHI: To ensure the poor get adequate quantity of good quality food during the lockdown, Delhi government has started taking feedback in electronic form from principals of the schools where hunger relief centres have been set up in the capital. According to officials, the complaints received from the principals are being forwarded to respective district magistrates for resolution of the problems. The feedback system was started on the directions of chief secretary Vijay Dev. Officials said the school principals are asked to fill up a Google Sheet available on their smartphones and give their feedback daily on four parameters—quality, quantity, timely distribution and social distancing. “On Wednesday, we received such sheets from 1,145 schools. There are 37 complaints of deficit quantity of food distributed during the lunch time and two complaints of poor quality. The number of complaints related to deficit quantity during dinner was 15, while five schools complained of bad quality of food,” said an official, requesting anonymity. Officials said there were no specific complaints of late delivery of food. Social distancing was also maintained at all centres. “The technological intervention helped us plug the gaps and the number of complaints reduced on Thursday,” added the official. Officials said the feedback from about 300 centres was not available as principals of those schools were not tech-savvy and didn’t carry smartphones. “We are trying to find a way to get feedback from such centres as well,” said an official. “When we started the system, only 458 schools responded and gave their feedback. The number is steadily increasing,” the official added. Delhi government has designated 1,800-odd hunger relief centres, including night shelters, where cooked food is provided to the city’s vulnerable section. According to chief minister, Arvind Kejriwal, the AAP government has made provisions to provide two meals a day to over 10 lakh people. The government has the capacity to provide 500 packets of food at each centre. This is in additional to 71 lakh beneficiaries being provided enhanced quantity of ration free of cost through the PDS system. The government claims that another 10 lakh people will be provided free wheat and rice through an e-coupon system this month to take care of their food requirement. On Wednesday, about 8 lakh people were provided lunch and dinner through 1,438 hunger relief centres. The food packets were distributed by 140 NGOs as well as on requests received on helpline numbers. About 80% people who were given cooked food by the government collected it from the hunger relief centres.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/principals-keep-tab-on-hunger-centres/articleshow/75074241.cms||Atul Mathur
April 10, 2020||Hyderabad||Telangana: Travelling miles, away from family, with an oath to care||HYDERABAD: From walking distances over 20 kilometres to raise awareness in tribal hamlets to working tirelessly in remote villages, leaving their families behind, nurses and health workers at the forefront of the battle against coronavirus pandemic are braving it all at great cost to themselves. Putting in extra hours, many are still to be paid while some, upon returning home, choose to stay in quarantine to protect their own families from any infection they may have carried from the ward. Here are few examples of such brave workers... Perumandla Kavitha, community health worker: She has a 13-year-old child and a husband recovering from paralysis alone at home. Posted at a centre in Station Ghanpur, she would travel to work from Hyderabad by train until services stopped due to the lockdown. She was at work and has been staying there, in a room given by the villagers. A shopkeeper has given her a gas stove to cook. “I am spending most of my time attending to patients. Some even come from other villages, many a times locals oppose this. I am encouraging them to treat others properly,” she says. Thellam Tabitha, staff nurse at Banswada Area Hospital: Ever since the outbreak, there has been a huge inflow of patients. “I used to visit home once a week but now its just video calls. My son asks me when I will come home. It is difficult to see him cry but there is work to be done. I could not return even before the lockdown as the entire staff is needed to keep the situation under control,” she says. Guttupalli Rajeshwari, an ANM nurse at Satyanarayanapuram primary health centre: Her regular job was to go around tribal villages to check on children, pregnant women and other patients. Now, she has been asked to teach villagers hand hygiene, social distancing while keeping an eye out for any suspect cases. The village in Bhadrachalam, on the border with Chhattisgarh, has many villages just a trek away from each other. She covers almost 20 kilometres every day. “I go to villages to tell people about the need to maintain social distance. If they know anyone who has come from abroad, I tell them not to mix with them and report to a hospital if there are any symptoms,” she said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/travelling-miles-away-from-family-with-an-oath-to-care/articleshow/75073725.cms||Amrita Didyala
April 10, 2020||Mumbai||HC relief to law student in ‘cannabis on campus’ case||Mumbai: In a relief to a first-year law student from a Vile Parle college, the Bombay high court on Thursday stayed her rustication for allegedly smoking cannabis on campus and also allowed her to take online internal assesment exams for now. In the first case heard via publicly accessible video-conference, Justice Gautam Patel heard the student’s petition challenging her rustication from Kirit Mehta School of Law College run by Narsee Monjee Institute of Management Studies. In it, she also urged to be allowed to appear for online exams which will get over on April 11. Her petition said the college’s action is arbitrary and disproportionate without giving any reason. She was rusticated on March 18 along with another student. Some 18 students were suspended, too, for allegedly consuming cannabis on campus. Her advocate Mohit Bharadwaj argued she was denied a hearing and falsely implicated based on third-party material. The college’s advocate, Manorama Mohanty, countered saying the college has relied on social media posts and specifically an Instagram post that allegedly showed the student smoking cannabis not only on college premises but actually in a classroom. She said due to the lockdown and closure of the college, she cannot provide an internal report and pictures relied upon for rustication. The judge questioned the authenticity of the material and wondered how the college came by the material in the first place. “There must be some degree of formality. You are dealing with rustication... Your processes have to be open and transparent,” remarked Justice Patel. In the order, Justice Patel noted that since the material pertaining to the social media posts and other documents cannot be accessed by the college and are placed before the court, a prima facie decision order cannot be passed on the merits of the petition. He granted the student ad interim relief by “staying the implementation and operation of the letter of rustication” and allowing her to appear for the internal exams. “Thus, it is imperative that some relief is granted as a rollback at a later stage would be impossible,” he said. He clarified this order will continue till normal working of court resumes and if later it is found that the student is not entitled to interim relief, she will have to accept those consequences. Content state: Writing In use by: Reporter(s): Rucha Chitrodia Last modified: 09-04 22:25 - Rucha Chitrodia Requested size: Actual size: 86 lin - 776.9p Category: Contextual use: Normal Description: Correction: All usages: //||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/hc-relief-to-law-student-in-cannabis-on-campus-case/articleshow/75071763.cms||Rosy Sequeira
April 10, 2020||Surat||‘Asymptomatic carriers – silent threat’||Surat: For the first time since the Covid-19 outbreak, the Surat Municipal Corporation’s (SMC) health department has detected an asymptomatic case carrying the deadly novel coronavirus during the rigorous community sample testing drive started in the containment zone in Rander. Hasan Chacha Patel, 68, employed as a security guard at the Al-Amin apartment at New Rander road in Gorat became the first asymptomatic patient who tested positive of Covid-19 on Wednesday. Asymptomatic coronavirus cases are those who carry the virus but do not show any symptoms and can cause sporadic clusters of infections as cariers. Health officials said that working at the housing society where positive patient Ehsaan Rashid Khan Pathan, 52, was residing with his wife. Pathan, who had died at the SMIMER hospital due to co-morbid condition, was first taken to the Lokhat hospital from where an ambulance driver identified as Sajid Ansari, 40, had also tested Covid positive. Official sources said that the community sample testing drive has been started at the containment zones at Rander and Begumpura on April 7. In the last three days, about 486 samples have been taken and sent for laboratory testing. Only one asymptomatic positive case was detected and report of 200 samples is pending. About 170 samples of the patients suffering from Acute Respiratory Infection (ARI) from private and primary health centres have also been collected and sent for laboratory testing and their reports are pending. Deputy municipal commissioner (Health and hospital), Dr Ashish Naik told TOI, “The security guard is the first asymptomatic case detected in the community testing. The security guard doesn’t have any Covid symptoms and if there are more asymptomatic carriers like him, they could act as live bombs and cause cluster of infections.” Dr Naik further said that two days ago, two more asymptomatic Covid cases were detected, but as they were close contacts of the positive patient, they were under quarantine and their samples were also tested. “This signals a grim warning that people should stay indoors and avoid meeting people,” Dr Naik added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/asymptomatic-carriers-silent-threat/articleshow/75071849.cms||---
April 10, 2020||Coimbatore||India Post promotes cash collection from postmen||Coimbatore: To avoid overcrowding at banks and ATMs, the postal department in the district has kickstarted a system where consumers can collect cash from their local postmen. This system ensures that people who hold Aadhaar-linked bank accounts can collect cash from their account via their area postman. They can also deposit money through the same system, and can pay their electricity and LPG bills too. With its 46 sub post offices and 57 branch post offices, the postal department is confident of being able to reach people in every corner of the district. The postmen will be carrying a fingerprint-scanner device to check if their credentials match with their Aadhaar database. The department said its customers can withdraw upto Rs 10,000 from their bank account. “ This way, they don’t have to step out even to go to an ATM, especially old people who may have to walk long distances, because public transport like buses and autos are also not available,” said Sudhir Gopal Jakhere, senior superintendent, postal department, Coimbatore. Though postmen will only be carrying Rs 5,000 in cash with them, people may contact the nodal person, IPPB senior manager Sathya Prabhu on 8667521689 for any requests for more cash, queries or issues.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/india-post-promotes-cash-collection-from-postmen/articleshow/75073688.cms||---
April 10, 2020||Hyderabad||Ten booked for offering group prayers||Hyderabad: Bachupally police have booked a criminal case against 10 people, including two minors, for offering prayers in a group at a religious place in Bachupally on Wednesday. Police said that after receiving information about a gathering at a place of worship, a team went to the spot. They entered the place and took photographs of the people offering prayers. On seeing the policemen, the participants started to flee but the police managed to get hold of one person who gave his name and also shared the names of other persons who were present there. Since they had violated government orders, cops registered a criminal case under the Epidemic Diseases Act and Section 270 (Malignant act likely to spread infection of disease dangerous to life), 188 (Disobedience to order duly promulgated by public servant) of IPC.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/ten-booked-for-offering-group-prayers/articleshow/75073780.cms||---
April 10, 2020||Bengaluru||Domestic violence calls up from 10 to 25 a day during lockdown in Bengaluru||BENGALURU: It’s 11.25am on Wednesday and one of the two telephones at Parihar Vanitha Sahayavani (women’s helpline) at the police commissionerate is ringing off the hook. Counsellor Bindya Yohannan picks it up only to lend an ear to a woman from Marathahalli who’s being repeatedly assaulted by her husband and his mother. The 21-day lockdown to check the Covid-19 spread has confined people to their homes but led to exponential rise in domestic violence cases in Bengaluru. Distress calls to the police control room by abused girls/women have multiplied since March 24, the day the shutdown was enforced. Flooded with calls, police decided to press into service staff from Parihar (the family counselling centre that runs the helpline along with police), who were working from home due to the lockdown. Earlier, Parihar was mostly referred women’s abuse cases by police stations. The Parihar staff were provided a temporary phone counselling facility and assistance from Hoysala vehicles, if necessary. “Our eight-member team began working in two shifts from 8am to 8pm April 4 onwards. We started addressing calls made to the control room (100) pertaining to women’s issues and providing detailed counselling on the phone,” said Rani Shetty, head of Parihar. On an average, the police control room is now receiving at least 25 distress calls related to domestic violence every day, while some women directly call the helpline. Prior to the lockdown, the control room would get not more than 10 such calls. Though Parihar had a functional helpline, it barely got direct calls as it’s not well known. There’s also a significant jump in the number of complaints referred to Parihar by various police stations. “The Marathahalli woman, 29, was being subjected to physical torture by her husband and mother-in-law. Taking into consideration the gravity of the situation, we dispatched a Hoysala team who took the woman to her acquaintance as per her request,” Yohannan said. Beat police personnel are exercising caution while addressing these cases by using thermal guns to ascertain if the people they engage with are healthy. Otherwise, they can call an ambulance. Calls to the helpline are often made by women who are being tormented by their spouses or other family members or are experiencing trouble in relationships. Sometimes, they are to do with missing girls. On Wednesday afternoon, senior counsellor Preethi Baliga attended a call from a Koramangala woman perturbed over her missing 17-year-old daughter. “The mother claims she was last seen with a boy. We are trying to contact him. It can be extremely taxing for parents, especially during the lockdown. Even for police, it can be quite a task to locate the victim,” said Baliga.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/domestic-violence-calls-up-from-10-to-25-a-day-during-lockdown/articleshow/75073669.cms||Petlee Peter
April 10, 2020||Delhi||Delhi: How women cops are sewing the way with masks for poor||NEW DELHI: At Greater Kailash police station, you see an unusual sight these days. At the public facilitation desk, three women constables can be seen in the non-policing acts of cutting and sewing pieces of cloth on a machine. The women are stitching face masks to be given free to those who can’t afford to buy one. In the past week, the trio has fabricated over 200 masks and distributed them. Constable Gudiya Devi, 26, cuts the cloth — pink in colour as symbolic of woman power —into double-layered mask shapes and passes them on to colleague constable Neelam Toppo, who checks the symmetry of the two layers and hands them to constable Sunni Devi. It is Devi’s job to stitch the mask on the sewing machine, and she happily does it because she has a passion for tailoring. The finished products are soaked in a solution of water and sodium hypochlorite to sanitise them. They are then hung out to dry and ironed before being readied for distribution. The masks are distributed to the needy and residents of slum clusters. Some of them are garbage collectors or sweepers who visit vulnerable areas. It’s a boon for them that their homemade mask is washable and reusable. The process begins every day at 9am and ends by 6pm. When asked what prompted the women to make masks, mandatory now for anyone outside their homes in Delhi, they said a person recently called the police control room to say masks were not available. “We were worried because a mask is important in the current situation,” said Gudiya. “My friend Sunni immediately told station house officer Som Paruthi that she had a sewing machine at home. The SHO sent a car to bring the machine to the police station.” Cloth for the masks was a problem because all shops were closed in the lockdown. The SHO, therefore, asked the local residents’ welfare association to see if any member had a cloth business. But before the RWA members donated two bolts of pink textile, the masks were initially made from the white cloth used by police to seal seized items. Gudiya and Devi are engaged wholly on the job, while the third person helping them depends on the woman officer who is on duty. In between sewing the masks, they also carry out the regular duty of calling up senior citizens and checking on their health and needs. Inspired by the policewomen, Meenu, the teacher wife of the SHO, has also started making masks at home. “When my children are sleeping, I use the time to sew masks, aiming every day to make at least a dozen of them to be handed over to the police for distribution,” said Meenu.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/how-women-cops-are-sewing-the-way-with-masks-for-poor/articleshow/75088831.cms||---
April 10, 2020||Kolhapur||Over 700 people with international travel history under home quarantine||KOLHAPUR: Over 700 citizens from Sangli, Satara and Kolhapur having international travel history have been placed under home quarantine and are under strict monitoring of respective district administrations. Of them, most are from Sangli district (568 citizens) while 196 from Satara are under home quarantine. Kolhapur district has witnessed more number of citizens who have completed their 14-day quarantine period and only 10 are currently placed in home quarantine. According to the respective district administrative department data on April 9, around 1,214 people from Sangli had international travel history in the past month, of which, 646 citizens have completed their 14-day home quarantine period while 568 are still being monitored. Satara district has reported 729 citizens with international travel history, of which, 533 have completed their 14-day quarantine and 196 are being monitored. In Kolhapur district, officials have recorded 820 citizens with international travel history, 813 of them have complied their 14-day quarantine period and remaining 7 are being monitered. When contacted, Sangli district collector Abhijeet Chaudhary told TOI, “We have received information on the international travelers from the bureau of immigration, civil aviation department, and via alert citizens as well.” According to Chaudhary, the first thing that the administration does is that they send the health teams to respective citizens for their preliminary check-up. If found asymptomatic, they are stamped and advised to stay home. “There is always a possibility of the stamped citizens flouting the norms and not adhere to home quarantine. In such cases, health teams and police officials have been asked to keep monitoring on them. Alert citizens too play a crucial role in letting know the administration about such citizens,” he said, adding that staying indoors is the need of the hour to protect yourself and others from contracting the infection. He added that Sangli administration is also going to keep watch on such citizens via mobile application featuring geo-sensors soon.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolhapur/over-700-people-with-intl-travel-history-under-home-quarantine/articleshow/75073681.cms||Piyush Bhusari
April 10, 2020||Hyderabad||Sigh of relief as Telangana sees less than 20 cases in a day first time this week||HYDERABAD: A 54-year-old woman from Old City’s Karwan died while 18 others tested positive for coronavirus with number of cases in the state rising to 471 on Thursday. While the death toll rose to 12, authorities said they were slightly relieved that for the first time in one week, the state registered less than 20 cases. Health minister Eatala Rajender on Thursday announced that out of the 665 samples tested on Thursday, only 18 tested positive while the rest returned negative. The 18 new cases include eight cases in Nizamabad district and five cases in Nirmal district. One death was reported from Hyderabad district. The minister said 385 of total 441 positive cases were related to Tablighi Jamaat returnees. Even among positive cases, only one person is on a ventilator. His condition is said to be critical. “If the Markaz issue was not there, the state would have had zero cases by now,” the minister claimed. The health minister said the state government was hopeful of overcoming this pandemic by the end of this month as all Tablighi Jamaat returnees would complete their 14-day quarantine period. “The first batch of returnees who are in isolation since March 25, will be completing their 14 days quarantine period on Friday, April 10...,” Rajender told TOI. He said about 3,300 others are under home quarantine and will complete their isolation period by the end of this month, he said. While saying the government has sufficient equipment both PPE, masks and other requirement, he said 1,000 new ventilators were ordered. “Out-patient services will also be opened in Nims and other hospitals in a day or two and we have urged people to go to King Koti hospital for OP services for other ailments as Gandhi has been converted into an exclusive Covid-19 hospital. Elective operations will also be started in other hospitals soon,” the minister said. The government would provide a toll-free number to Thalassaemia, dialysis patients and even cancer patients where they can avail of transportation facilities. “We are also planning to come up with a tele-medicine facility for consulting doctors for general ailments. Similarly, a number will be given to people who need psychiatric support,” the minister said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/sigh-of-relief-as-state-sees-less-than-20-cases-in-a-day-first-time-this-wk/articleshow/75073747.cms||Koride Mahesh
April 10, 2020||Bareilly||73-year-old Covid-19 positive woman cured after 18 days of treatment, discharged||Pilibhit: “It’s nothing short of a miracle,” chuckled doctors buoyed by their success when 73-year-old Saudi Arabia-return woman tested negative for the second time after 18 days of intensive care and she finally walked out of the Pilibhit district hospital on Wednesday afternoon, even as nearly 40% of novel coronavirus victims worldwide are people above 60. The woman left for home expressing her deep gratitude to the doctors and medical staff. “Allah and doctors have given me a new life for which I express my extreme gratitude to them. I had lost all hopes to see my family again,” said the woman feeling overwhelmed with emotions. It was in the night of March 21 — only a few days after she, along with her husband and their 33-year-old son, landed in Mumbai after completing 20-day Umrah pilgrimage in Saudi Arabia — when the woman woke up abruptly complaining of breathlessness, sore throat and cough. As her restlessness grew, doctors were called in and she was quarantined. Her samples were sent for Covid-19 test to King George’s Medical University (KGMU) in Lucknow. As soon as she was confirmed positive, the district administration swung into action and launched a massive search for all those —nearly 34 people — who were part of the lot that returned from Saudi to Pilibhit. Later, her son — a B Tech — was tested positive, too. Upon their arrival on March 18, the Mumbai airport authorities had allowed them to embark on their onward journey but not before putting a stamp on their arms, which required them to quarantine themselves in Pilibhit, but they erased the stamp and concealed their travel history from the Pilibhit administration when they reached home on March 19, said sources with the district administration. Besides, they kept on socialising until the woman was quarantined. On the complaint of chief medical officer (CMO) Dr Seema Agarwal, police booked them under sections 269 (unlawfully or negligently doing any act which is likely to spread the infection of any disease dangerous to life), 270 (malignantly doing any act which is likely to spread the infection of any disease dangerous to life) and 271 (disobedience to quarantine rules) of IPC on March 29. The health department, meanwhile, added another feather to its cap when her son, too, was tested negative by KGMU on Thursday for the first time and started showing signs of improvement. Bursting into emotions, the woman’s husband, a retired government teacher, said, “For the past 18 days, I have only been praying to Allah for the speedy recovery of my wife and son. I am the happiest man today. I don’t have words to thank the doctors and medical staff. I have immense respect for them.” Reacting to the recovery of both the patients, district hospital chief medical superintendent Dr RP Singh and additional CMO Dr CM Chaturvedi said, “The recovery of a 73-year-old person, whose immune system responds slow, is no less than a miracle. It is an outcome of a concerted and sincere effort by doctors and the nursing staff, who did not feel scared in fulfilling their duty.” “We kept boosting her moral strength as an integral part of the treatment and focused on her diet. She was, too, weak due to fever, cough and sore throat when admitted to the isolation ward, but it was the devotion of the entire medical team that she was fully cured,” said Dr Singh. Expressing satisfaction over her treatment, district magistrate Vaibhav Shrivastav said, “The complete recovery of the elderly woman and her son is a matter of great relief, but we should not be overconfident about the results, as we still have a long way to go.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/73-year-old-covid-19-positive-woman-cured-after-18-days-of-treatment-discharged/articleshow/75072960.cms||---
April 10, 2020||Delhi||How women cops are sewing the way with masks for poor||New Delhi: At Greater Kailash police station, you see an unusual sight these days. At the public facilitation desk, three women constables can be seen in the non-policing acts of cutting and sewing pieces of cloth on a machine. The women are stitching face masks to be given free to those who can’t afford to buy one. In the past week, the trio has fabricated over 200 masks and distributed them. Constable Gudiya Devi, 26, cuts the cloth — pink in colour as symbolic of woman power —into double-layered mask shapes and passes them on to colleague constable Neelam Toppo, who checks the symmetry of the two layers and hands them to constable Sunni Devi. It is Devi’s job to stitch the mask on the sewing machine, and she happily does it because she has a passion for tailoring. The finished products are soaked in a solution of water and sodium hypochlorite to sanitise them. They are then hung out to dry and ironed before being readied for distribution. The masks are distributed to the needy and residents of slum clusters. Some of them are garbage collectors or sweepers who visit vulnerable areas. It’s a boon for them that their homemade mask is washable and reusable. The process begins every day at 9am and ends by 6pm. When asked what prompted the women to make masks, mandatory now for anyone outside their homes in Delhi, they said a person recently called the police control room to say masks were not available. “We were worried because a mask is important in the current situation,” said Gudiya. “My friend Sunni immediately told station house officer Som Paruthi that she had a sewing machine at home. The SHO sent a car to bring the machine to the police station.” Cloth for the masks was a problem because all shops were closed in the lockdown. The SHO, therefore, asked the local residents’ welfare association to see if any member had a cloth business. But before the RWA members donated two bolts of pink textile, the masks were initially made from the white cloth used by police to seal seized items. Gudiya and Devi are engaged wholly on the job, while the third person helping them depends on the woman officer who is on duty. In between sewing the masks, they also carry out the regular duty of calling up senior citizens and checking on their health and needs. Inspired by the policewomen, Meenu, the teacher wife of the SHO, has also started making masks at home. “When my children are sleeping, I use the time to sew masks, aiming every day to make at least a dozen of them to be handed over to the police for distribution,” said Meenu.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/how-women-cops-are-sewing-the-way-with-masks-for-poor/articleshow/75088826.cms||---
April 10, 2020||Mumbai||HC relief to law student in ‘cannabis on campus’ case||Mumbai: In a relief to a first-year law student from a Vile Parle college, the Bombay high court on Thursday stayed her rustication for allegedly smoking cannabis on campus and also allowed her to take online internal assesment exams for now. In the first case heard via publicly accessible video-conference, Justice Gautam Patel heard the student’s petition challenging her rustication from Kirit Mehta School of Law College run by Narsee Monjee Institute of Management Studies. In it, she also urged to be allowed to appear for online exams which will get over on April 11. Her petition said the college’s action is arbitrary and disproportionate without giving any reason. She was rusticated on March 18 along with another student. Some 18 students were suspended, too, for allegedly consuming cannabis on campus. Her advocate Mohit Bharadwaj argued she was denied a hearing and falsely implicated based on third-party material. The college’s advocate, Manorama Mohanty, countered saying the college has relied on social media posts and specifically an Instagram post that allegedly showed the student smoking cannabis not only on college premises but actually in a classroom. She said due to the lockdown and closure of the college, she cannot provide an internal report and pictures relied upon for rustication. The judge questioned the authenticity of the material and wondered how the college came by the material in the first place. “There must be some degree of formality. You are dealing with rustication... Your processes have to be open and transparent,” remarked Justice Patel. In the order, Justice Patel noted that since the material pertaining to the social media posts and other documents cannot be accessed by the college and are placed before the court, a prima facie decision on merits is not possible. He granted the student ad interim relief by “staying the implementation and operation of the letter of rustication” and allowing her to appear for the internal exams. “Thus, it is imperative that some relief is granted as a rollback at a later stage would be impossible,” he said. He clarified this order will continue till normal working of court resumes and if later it is found that the student is not entitled to interim relief, she will have to accept those consequences.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/hc-relief-to-law-student-in-cannabis-on-campus-case/articleshow/75071826.cms||Rosy Sequeira
April 10, 2020||Ahmedabad||Artists add colour to new normal||Ahmedabad: “In times of calamity and isolation, art becomes central to our lives, whether we realize it or not,” says Vrindavan Solanki. Along with 10 other senior artists of the city, Solanki has been brought together for the first time by an Ahmedabad photographer, Milan Barad, to paint artwork on masks to add colour to the new normal. Vraj Mistry, another artist, cites his art on a mask that shows a painter with a brush fighting the Covid-19 virus. “Artists reflect contemporary times and in crises we depict how our beliefs are tested and how we should stand together and win this war,” says Mistry. Rakesh Patel, Roma Patel, Milan Desai, Ronak Sopariwala, Harshil Patel, Samvedna Vaishya, Mayur Mistry, Kulin Patel, Dilip Dave, Dipika Kanada, and Manan Relia have contributed to the project. Barad says that the masks made by the artists are interesting as they depict our collective resolve to fight the virus and reflect our values and inclinations.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/artists-add-colour-to-new-normal/articleshow/75073697.cms||---
April 10, 2020||Hyderabad||Stores see rise in footfall as locals stock up||Hyderabad: With many predicting an extension of the lockdown, locals across the city were seen lining up in serpentine queues at their neighbourhood departmental stores on Thursday. Those near the stores said that the likelihood of lockdown extension had brought many of them out to stock up on essentials. Some said that the deployment of additional forces in their area made them stock up on necessities. Some supermarkets restricted the number of customers, in some cases only five persons were allowed at one time. Areas like Kondapur, Banjara Hills, Shaikpet, Kukatpally and Barkatpura saw serpenttine queues outside supermarkets. Most stores saw an increases in footfall on Thursday compared to other days of the lockdown. Fruits, vegetables, wheat, grains, eggs, bread, oil and meat were among the main purchases on Thursday. “After rumours of an extension of lockdown spread, people resorted to panic buying,” said Mahendra Gupta, an advocate living in Kondapur’s Shilpa Park. A resident of Shaikpet said that he had decided to stock up on essentials after he saw areas in the locality being barricaded. “Parts of Shaikpet have been barricaded but we were not informed about the status of departmental stores. I was afraid that even the supermarkets will be closed as the area has been identified as one of the containment zones,” said Mehdi Ali Mirza at a departmental store in Al-Hamra Colony on Shaikpet Road. Customers at most supermarkets were screened using thermal scanners and were asked to wash their hands and sanitise them before entering the store. In most stores, social distancing was maintained with the staff having marked out circles for customers to follow the same. Even medical stores saw more-than-usual customers on Thursday. “People in my locality rushed to medical stores after news of some areas being marked as containment zones spread. People stocked up on medicines and purchased them before noon, but the stores were open till evening,” said Anwar Akthar, resident of New Colony in Miyapur.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/stores-see-rise-in-footfall-as-locals-stock-up/articleshow/75073764.cms||---
April 10, 2020||Hyderabad||Rain hits Hyderabad, brings respite from soaring temperature||HYDERABAD: As predicted by the India Meteorological Department (IMD), Hyderabad, the city on Thursday, experienced light to moderate rains with many areas getting up to 36 mm of rainfall in the span of a few hours. The IMD had issued a thunderstorm warning associated with gusty winds from April 8 to 10. As per the Telangana State Development Planning Society, Bolarum received the highest rainfall of 36.5 mm and is followed by Srinagar Colony (24 mm), Khairatabad (23 mm) among others. The maximum temperature in the city was recorded at 36.2 degree Celsius, which was 1.3 degree Celsius below normal at this time of the month. Some parts of the city such as LB Nagar also witnessed hailstorm. “Not only the rain, we also got to see hailstones along with it here in Hyderabad. Though it comes as a sign of relief from rising temperature, I am more concerned about the damage it might have caused to crops!” tweeted Keerthi Vydyula. Meteorologists attributed the rainfall activity to a trough/wind discontinuity from Rayalaseema to south Tamil Nadu running from cyclonic circulation over East Madhya Pradesh & adjoining Chhattisgarh to south Tamil Nadu across east Vidarbha, Telangana and Rayalaseema. The weathermen have forecast that the thunderstorm activity will continue in the city as well as other districts of Telangana such as Rangareddy, Medchal-Malkajgiri, Medak, Sangareddy among others till April 13.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/rain-hits-city-brings-respite-from-soaring-temperature/articleshow/75073796.cms||---
April 10, 2020||Vadodara||Dial A for Alibhai’s auto in case of medical emergency in Vadodara||VADODARA: At the crack of dawn, Ali Hussain Udawala’s mobile phone starts ringing incessantly. The Wadi area resident is also quick to respond, noting down the address details and reaches the spot in his auto within minutes. Since the imposition of the nation-wide lockdown, this has been a daily routine for Udawala who drives autorickshaw for a living. What’s the most commendable fact in his labour is that the humble autowala doesn’t charge his customers a penny for his yeoman service. “After the lockdown was announced, I realized that people were not able to get any transport in emergency situations as all commercial vehicles were off the road. And some auto drivers began extorting from the needy. That is when I decided to offer my services to those in need,” Ali told TOI. Ali took special permission from the district authorities with the help of his friend and began driving his auto around the city. “As the word spread, I began getting calls from people living in different areas. I offer auto ride only to those who want to travel to hospitals and I don’t charge any money for it. Most of my passengers are from poor family. This is my way of giving it back to the society when it needs our help,” the 48-year-old said. Father of two daughters and a son, Ali has been riding auto since 1995 and indulges in social service in times of calamities like floods in the city. When asked how he manages to make his ends meet, Ali said, “I charge fare from customers round the year, so spending from my own pocket for a good cause is not a problem. Also, some Good Samaritans voluntarily give some money after I drop them off at the hospital,” he added. Ali also shoots videos of passengers and takes their feedback for his services.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/dial-a-for-alibhais-auto-in-case-of-medical-emergency/articleshow/75071449.cms||Tushar Tere
April 10, 2020||Thiruvananthapuram||With these cops around, they don’t worry about sleeping hungry||Thiruvananthapuram: Sulochana, hailing from Parassala, has been staying at Thiruvananthapuram Government Medical College Hospital for the past nine days. Her daughter-in-law gave birth to a baby prematurely in the eighth month and since then the baby has been in the intensive care unit. For Sulochana, the free food provided by the police thrice a day is what helps her and her family survive during this time of uncertainty. “My son is a daily-wage labourer and he is not able to visit the hospital as there is no public transport,” Sulochana said while waiting in a queue outside the medical college hospital to receive the food packets distributed by the police. Sulochana is just one of the 1000-odd individuals in the city who get benefited from the ‘feed a stomach’ initiative of police which was started under the leadership of IG P Vijayan over a week ago. “We started this venture using money from our own pockets and didn’t expect that we could help this many people,” Vijayan said. The officer himself daily visits the kitchen that is functioning inside a wedding auditorium at Jagathy. He travels to various spots in the city to distribute the food packets himself. Police have been distributing food packets at major government hospitals thrice a day. In the morning, they deliver food for patients and their bystanders in the wards. In the afternoon and evening, they visit the same spots again to deliver food for those who stay in the hospital premises to help their kin inside the hospital wards. Many destitute too receive food from the police. Vijayan said once the police started the venture, funds started coming in from various corners.  There were many who contributed large amounts of raw materials for the kitchen. Traders were also chipping in by contributing packing materials, he said adding that currently they are able to offer food to 900 to 1,000 individuals a day. The officers deputed under Student Police Cadets, Our Responsibility to Children and Janamaithri Community Policing schemes are part of the venture. The state police have expanded the initiative by opening 15 more kitchens across the state, serving food to around 10,000 individuals a day.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/thiruvananthapuram/with-these-cops-around-they-dont-worry-about-sleeping-hungry/articleshow/75071861.cms||Rejith Balakrishnan
April 10, 2020||Dehradun||Online donations helping feed strays in Dehradun||DEHRADUN: Ever since the lockdown began, a number of social organisations and good samaritans have been ensuring that stray animals do not go without food and water. Many of these groups are gathering resources through online campaigns. In one such online platform Donate Kart, groups post specific requirements based on their area of work. Talking to TOI, Sarang Bobade, chief operating officer, DonateKart, said, “The main intention of starting an e-commerce-led crowdfunding platform was to bring transparency in the NGO space. We're tackling the Covid-19 holistically from all fronts and supporting multiple causes. One of them is animal welfare to provide food for stray animals. NGOs list the products they need, donors pay for these products and we deliver these products to the NGOs. Till now, during the Covid-19 outbreak, we've supported over 20 animal welfare NGOs across India and raised over Rs 50 lakh worth of animal food." Doon Animal Welfare, a not-for-profit organisation in Dehradun has over 180 animals at their shelter and are also feeding stray dogs regularly. The organisation had posted a campaign inviting people to help them feed these animals. Doon Animal Welfare's Ashu Arora said, “The announcement of the lockdown had left stray animals stranded as only a few people could move around and feed them. Since we used the online platform inviting donations, we have received dog food worth Rs 40,000. " Another group involved in animal welfare, based in Delhi-NCR, is Posh Foundation. They feed between 500 and 700 stray animals daily. Founder of the Posh Foundation and animal rights activist, Aditi Badam, said, “ In addition to 100 plus animals at our shelter, we are regularly feeding stray dogs from the resources donated by people online." Apart from stray dogs, the online donation campaigns have also helped arrange fodder for cows. Dharam Raj Ranka, a Hyderabad-based jeweller, has helped rescue more than 5,500 cows from "illegal slaughter". Talking to TOI, Dharam Raj said, “Since I have a large number of cows to take care of, I require fodder on a daily basis. The online campaigns have helped us a lot in feeding the cows." Another organisation, Animal Protection Foundation, has started feeding stray dogs since the beginning of the lockdown. “Online donations have helped us feed over 1,500 stray dogs in Jalandhar every day. Before this, the voluntary contribution was just enough to feed a few dogs," said Yuvi Singh of the organisation.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/online-donations-helping-feed-strays/articleshow/75072949.cms||---
April 10, 2020||Dehradun||Uttarakhand: More child births with 108 ambulance help during lockdown||PITHORAGARH: The 21-day nationwide lockdown due to Covid-19 pandemic has increased the number of child births with the assistance of Emergency Ambulance Service '108' in Pithoragarh district. They are also helping pregnant women reach hospitals, mainly due to the lack of public transport. Pithoragarh district has eight blocks and there are nine emergency vehicles - one each in every block, and one in Thal, according to Parmanand Pant, convener of emergency ambulance service in the district. "In the past two weeks, seven child births took place inside the ambulance, while three are born in normal circumstances," Pant said. "The main cause of the rise is due to suspension of public and private transport. So, people are more dependent on the 108 services during emergency," Pant said, adding that the district administration has instructed them to maintain a record of contact details of pregnant women and remain in touch, in case of any emergency. Notably, during the lockdown, the ambulance service has, so far, carried at least 186 pregnant women to District Women’s Hospital in Pithoragarh. "This number is much more than normal times," Pant pointed out. In '108', two persons are deputed -— a driver and the other an emergency medical technician (EMT) with a diploma in pharma or Auxiliary Nurse Midwife (ANM) so that the person can help in the delivery, if needed. Health department sources said that in Pithoragarh district only three gynecologists are currently working. All of them are at the District Lady Hospital. At present, eight primary health centre and community health centre have no gynecologists, sources added. A local doctor, however, said that child birth inside '108' is not very safe and every effort should be made for the delivery at hospital.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/more-child-births-with-108-ambulance-help-during-lockdown/articleshow/75072966.cms||Prem Punetha
April 10, 2020||Rajkot||2 women in Jangleshwar test +ve||Rajkot: Two women, 35-year-old and 50-year old, tested positive for corona virus in Rajkot on Thursday taking total tally to 13. They both are from Jangleshwar area of the city. The cases were detected during survey by health officials. Jangleshwar is considered hotspot for Covid in Rajkot. According to RMC, a total of four persons have tested positive from Jangleshwar area, out of which one has been cured. The area has been put under cluster quarantine. The second corona positive person from Bhavnagar, a 27-year-old man was discharged from Sir T hospital on Thursday. He is nephew of the 65-year-old man who died of coronavirus on March 26. The deceased had attended the Tablighi congregation in New Delhi. Over a dozen people of the same family, including a servant, who have tested positive for COVID-19. Total eighteen persons have tested positive in Bhavnagar so far. TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/2-women-in-jangleshwar-test-ve/articleshow/75071880.cms||---
April 10, 2020||Chandigarh||Jamaat link: Two more test positive in Panchkula||PANCHKULA: Two more Jamaat-linked persons, out of 55 who are under observation at Nada Sahib quarantine facility, tested positive for Covid-19 on Thursday, taking the number of cases in Panchkula to four. This was confirmed by Dr Rajiv Narwal, Covid-19 nodal officer. He said they had come in contact with attendees of Tablighi Jamaat at Nizamuddin in Delhi. They have been shifted to the isolation ward of civil hospital in Sector 6. The health department teams have started tracing their contacts. Earlier, two cases were reported, including a woman from Kharak Mangoli and a staff nurse. As per Panchkula health department officials, there were 843 persons under surveillance, 278 home quarantined, 27 at the quarantine facility at Gujjar Bhawan, 55 at Nada Sahib facility, one at Delhi, one at Gurugram, two at Mouli village, and four at Sood Bhawan. Besides, 400 persons have been quarantined at 12 shelter homes across the district, 163 completed 28 days, 71 are at isolation ward at civil hospital in Sector 6 and four persons are at command hospital. While 238 samples have been sent for testing at PGI, Chandigarh, results of 77 are awaited.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/jamaat-link-2-more-test-positive-in-pkl/articleshow/75072969.cms||Arvind Bishnoi
April 10, 2020||Chandigarh||Rising cases: Panchkula to seal borders||PANCHKULA: In view of the 23 covid-19 positive cases reported at Jawaharpur village in Derabassi and increasing number of such cases in Chandigarh and Mohali, Panchkula administration chalked out a plan to seal its borders. Panchkula deputy commissioner (DC) M K Ahuja and deputy commissioner of police (DCP) Mohit Handa took stock of all border areas, especially those flanking Derabassi at Barwala and Raipur Rani block of Panchkula. They decided to maintain strict vigil at border areas to prevent unnecessary public movement. Security at checkposts has been beefed up. On Wednesday night, Panchkula police checked 1,589 vehicles, issued challans to 1,642 vehicles and impounded 125. DCP Handa, said, “Besides Punjab borders, strict checks will be conducted along borders of Panchkula district connecting with Himachal Pradesh, Punjab and Chandigarh.” Police have set up 47 checkposts. Also, 14 patrol vehicles have been pressed into service to ensure that no one violates lockdown orders. DCP Handa said 600 police personnel are working to maintain law and order. Police distributed 3,935 food packets to the needy and 250 food packets among police officials on duty at checkposts. They also visited homes of people under home quarantine.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/rising-number-of-covid-19-cases-prompts-pkula-to-seal-borders/articleshow/75072983.cms||Arvind Bishnoi
April 10, 2020||Surat||Test housekeeping staff, SMC tells all housing societies||SMC health department has advised the management of housing societies in all the seven municipal zones to contact their nearest health centres and perform sample testing of security guards, sweepers and garbage collectors. Deputy municipal commissioner (health and hospital), Dr Ashish Naik said, “Security guards, sweepers, liftman and even garbage collectors could be possible asymptomatic carriers which is why they all need to be tested urgently. We are advising housing societies to ensure they are screened at the primary health centres. Also, all such workers must be given masks and sanitisers for the safety of the residents.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/test-housekeeping-staff-smc-tells-all-housing-societies/articleshow/75071874.cms||---
April 10, 2020||Kolhapur||Lodge criminal cases against travellers if they resist quarantine: Kolhapur district collector||KOLHAPUR: Kolhapur district collector Daulat Desai has warned of strict action against violators of the lockdown, saying that some people are still trying to find ways to go to their native places from other states, districts and cities. In an order on Thursday, he asked all the officials concerned to put such individuals in institutional quarantine and collect their throat swabs for testing. “If anyone resists, file a criminal case against them.” “It has been learned that many people are still finding ways to go to their cities or villages taking short-cuts or different routes. This poses grave threat to people. Such individuals should be put in the nearby designated institutional quarantine facility for 14 days,” he said. Desai said that there will not be any compromise in the 14-day period. They have to undergo the medical check-up and their swab samples need to be collected. In Kolhapur district, 79,905 individuals have been found with travel history from cities or the areas that are affected by Covid-19 in the past month. Of these, 11,970 individuals are still under home quarantine while 67,935 have completed the period. A total of 634 were found with symptoms of coronavirus and were referred accordingly for further medical treatment. Most of these individuals had a travel history from Pune and Mumbai.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolhapur/lodge-criminal-cases-against-travellers-if-they-resist-quarantine-dist-collector/articleshow/75073692.cms||Piyush Bhusari
April 10, 2020||Chandigarh||Panchkula farmers allowed to visit fields for harvesting||PANCHKULA: The Panchkula administration has allowed farmers to visit their fields for harvesting of wheat and mustard crops, and advised them to take all precautions to guard themselves against coronavirus infection. As per the demand of farmers, the administration is also providing harvesting machines and related equipment to them. Besides, the officials have also been asked to ensure that shops of fertilisers, pesticides and seeds remain open for farmers during the harvesting season. Deputy commissioner M K Ahuja said farmers can also hire combine harvesters and other farming equipment from the administration, if so needed. He also instructed the officials concerned to give training to farmers to prepare and maintain social distancing at work. Farmers of the district had requested the administration to provide them necessary items and resources for farming. Acting on the request, the administration allowed all primary agricultural credit societies (PACS) to remain open between 10am and 1pm till April 14. A farmer said, “Without equipment, seeds and other necessary items for farming, it will be difficult for us to grow crops. We are happy that the administration is taking steps for us.” All seed, fertiliser and farm equipment shops will be open for farmers in all four blocks — Barwala, Raipur Rani, Morni and Pinjore — of the district. The DC warned that the shopkeepers and dealers not adhering to the timings would face action.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/pkl-farmers-allowed-to-visit-fields-for-harvesting/articleshow/75072978.cms||---
April 10, 2020||Dehradun||Uttarakhand Biodiversity Board, Rajaji Tiger Reserve get new heads||DEHRADUN: The state government has conducted a minor rejig in departmental works of 10 forest service officers on Thursday. Amit Verma has been appointed as director of Rajaji Tiger Reserve (RTR). Ranjana Kala has been appointed as chairperson of Uttarakhand Biodiversity Board. DFO of Haridwar has been deputed as Pauri Garhwal DFO, while Neeraj Sharma from Haldwani forest divison has been deputed as DFO of Haridwar. "The rejig was conducted after repeated demands of the people, especially in Haridwar area," said forest minister Harak Singh Rawat.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/uttarakhand-biodiversity-board-rtr-get-new-heads/articleshow/75072972.cms||Shivani Azad
April 10, 2020||Thiruvananthapuram||Kerala Startup Mission to hold webinars for startups||Thiruvananthapuram: Kerala Startup Mission (KSUM), in association with industry bodies, has planned a series of online mentorship sessions for startups on a range of topics to equip them meet the challenges arising due to the outbreak of Covid-19 pandemic. High-profile industry experts, including those from Twitter, Facebook, Linkedin and Paytm, will also associate with the year-long webinar series. Startups can ingest ideas from industry stalwarts by taking part in the free sessions from their place of convenience. Startups have been facing difficulties in meeting, networking with industry heads and get expert advice on various aspects of business like marketing, managing funds, agile model to be adopted to get investments, investors perspective on the pandemic, business modelling, technical sessions and much more. The webinars seek to bridge this gap by keeping fledgling entrepreneurs engaged. The webinars will also help startups learn the best practices, which they have to adopt at the time of crisis. It will also bring in active number of participants than in the physical assembly of conferences. KSUM, which is the nodal agency for entrepreneurship development and incubation activities in the state, has published a month-long calendar of events at https://startupmission.kerala.gov.in/events.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/thiruvananthapuram/kerala-startup-mission-to-hold-webinars-for-startups/articleshow/75071882.cms||---
April 10, 2020||Kolhapur||100% lockdown in Maratha colony till April 21: KMC||KOLHAPUR: The three-day 100% lockdown in Kasba Bawda and Line Bazaar areas will be lifted from Friday onwards, barring Maratha colony where the third confirmed Covid-19 case was reported on Monday. Due to the 100% lockdown, grocery shops, milk shops and markets in these colonies were shut. The 40,000-odd people living in these areas were confined to their homes. The local community groups made arrangements to supply the essentials to the residents living in these areas. A local leader part of the monitoring the lockdown said, “People have to follow the lockdown rules. People can come to buy the essentials they need from the grocery and medical shops. Though we will open the roads, people will not be allowed to go out with their vehicles except in the case of an emergency.” The Kolhapur Municipal Corporation (KMC) has quarantined over 17 people in various centres. Though the throat swab samples of these patients have tested negative, they will still be kept under observation. An official from the civc administration said, “The lockdown at Maratha Colony will continue till April 21. The KMC has made arrangements to supply essentials to the residents here.” On Thursday, mayor Nilofer Ajrekar supplied two vegetables free of cost to the residents living in the colony. She said that over 300 people lived in the colony and that the civic administration would address the needs of each and everyone as long as the 100% lockdown was in place. A senior police official deployed at the containment zone said that even after complete lockdown ended in Kasba Bawda and Line Bajaar areas, police would continue patrolling the areas at regular intervals during the day and at night to keep a check on unruly citizens venturing out of their homes without any valid reason. “No one will be allowed morning or evening walks. Everyone has to wear a mask before moving out for buying any essentials. We are communicating with representatives from every lane. They have been asked to provide inputs of the situation in their locality so that we can help the locals in every possible way,” said a police officer.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolhapur/100-lockdown-in-maratha-colony-till-april-21-kmc/articleshow/75073718.cms||---
April 10, 2020||Thiruvananthapuram||Moldovan varsity vows safety of students, says ambassador||Thiruvananthapuram: Responding to concerns raised by Norka department and political leaders on the plight of Indian medical students, including Malayalis, at a university in Moldova, Indian ambassador to the east European country has said the university has taken required measures to ensure students’ safety and supply of essential commodities. Citing a letter from State University of Medicine and Pharmacy, the Indian ambassador to Moldova, on Thursday, said the university has formed a WhatsApp group of students and parents to keep each other updated about the grievances and actions taken by university. “The embassy is in constant touch with university authorities in Moldova, the Moldovan government authorities and the students,” the Indian ambassador said. As per information received from the university, online classes have resumed on April 6 and there will be no Easter holidays. The university authorities are in discussions with retailer Metro for facilitating online shopping for students to buy essential items. They also spoke to an Indian community leader in Moldova, who has confirmed that basic items of daily necessities are easily available in Moldova and that ATMs are functioning normally. As on Thursday, there are 965 confirmed Covid-19 cases in Moldova and 21 deaths.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/thiruvananthapuram/moldovan-varsity-vows-safety-of-students-says-ambassador/articleshow/75071891.cms||---
April 10, 2020||Dehradun||Man, recently operated, dies, Covid-19 suspected||RUDRAPUR: A 35-year-old man, who was recently operated for brain tumour at a Delhi hospital, died after allegedly showing Covid-19 symptoms late night on Wednesday. On being informed, health officials on Thursday took blood samples of eight other members of the family, and quarantined them. Officials said the preventive measures are being taken because the doctor who had conducted the surgery on the deceased, was later detected Covid-19 -positive. Amarjeet Singh, the city health officer (CHO) of Kashipur municipal corporation, said Wasim Mohammad of Punjabi Sarai Colony was operated upon for brain tumor at Sir Gangaram Hospital in Delhi some 20 days ago. He returned home to Kashipur after being discharged. On Wednesday, after he complained of cough and breathlessness, his kin took him to a private hospital, from where he was referred to a higher centre. But he succumbed on the way and was later buried by his kin. “We have collected blood samples of all family members and sent them for examination. They have been quarantined, and if reports show anyone has the disease, we will seal the whole colony. Meanwhile, we are also tracking all those who came in contact with the deceased,” said CHO Singh. He also said he has received information that the doctor who operated Wasim has tested corona positive. “We are taking the case seriously and will act as per health ministry guidelines, after the reports arrive,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/man-recently-operated-dies-covid-19-suspected/articleshow/75072985.cms||Aakash Ahuja
April 10, 2020||Kolhapur||Satara: 11 of 66 suspects test negative||KOLHAPUR: Eleven of 66 throat swab sample reports that the Satara health department had sent to B J Medical College in Pune on Wednesday have tested negative for Covid-19. Of the 11 suspects, six were the close contacts of the recent confirmed positive patient in Satara. The remaining five people were suffering from pneumonia. Their throat swab samples were also sent for Covid-19 testing as a precautionary measure. District civil surgeon of Satara Amod Gadikar told TOI that they were likely to receive the reports of the remaining thorat swab samples by Friday. Notably, as many as 66 close contacts associated with the fourth and sixth confirmed patients identified earlier this week, were admitted to the isolation wards of the Krishna Hospital in Karad and the district hospital in Satara on Wednesday. So far, this was the highest number of patients admitted in a day in Satara district since the identification of positive cases.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolhapur/satara-11-of-66-suspects-test-negative/articleshow/75073727.cms||---
April 10, 2020||Rajkot||Covid roundup||Father-son held for attacking cops in ModasaPalanpur: Ashwin Patel (52) and his son Harsh Patel (21) were arrested for allegedly assaulting police officials and violating lockdown over in Modasa town of Aravali on Thursday. The duo was stopped by cops when they were moving on a motorcycle in the main market area of the town. On being stopped, the accused father-son duo abused the cops and later attacked one of them. When a constable Vikramsinh Chauhan tired to intervene, they attacked him too. The duo was arrested and charged for assaulting cop and violation of prohibitory orders.counselling centrE AT Saurashtra varsity Rajkot: People living alone during lockdown period may experience claustrophobia, paranoia, anxiety, melancholy and subsequent depression. In order to save its students from such mental disorders, the Saurashtra University (SU) set up a counselling centre on Thursday. “The counsellors at the centre will call students daily to take update of their mental healths. If any student is found suffering from mental illness, he will be provided counselling over phone itself,” explained the SU official.Man who posed as doc, journalist heldRajkot: An imposter who posed as a journalist and a doctor too, was arrested at Gulabnagar check post in Jamnagar on Wednesday night while roaming around violating the lockdown order. The accused was identified as Sunil Pandya (43), a resident of Khodiyar Colony in Jamnagar.366 held for lockdown order violationRajkot: As many as 366 people were held for the alleged violation of the lockdown order in Rajkot city and Jamnagar district in the past 24 hours. In Rajkot city, 58 people were arrested, while in Jamnagar district, 308 people were held for the offence.20 coaches converted into isolation wardsRajkot: Rajkot division of the Western Railway (WR) has converted 20 non-AC coaches into quarantine or isolation wards, said a press release.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/covid-roundup/articleshow/75071901.cms||---
April 10, 2020||Chandigarh||Four held for attack on cops, Asha workers in Panchkula||PANCHKULA: Nine miscreants attacked a police party and Asha workers at Indira Colony where they had gone for health checkup on Thursday. Four persons were arrested. Sector 16 police post in-charge, sub-inspector Jagdish Singh said the police team, including a woman police official and Asha workers had gone for a routine medical check-up at Indira Colony. While conducting the survey, a few persons in the colony started arguing with asha workers on duty. When police intervened, nine persons engaged in heated arguments with them. All of a sudden, the accused held the collar of a police official while the others attacked the team. Police back-up was called and four of the nine persons were arrested while five fled. The accused were identified as Nadeem, Javed, Ishaak and Azad. They were booked under sections 188 (Disobedience to order duly promulgated by public servant), 186 (Obstructing public servant in discharge of public functions), 323 (Punishment for voluntarily causing hurt) and 34 (act done by several person with same intention) of the IPC at Sector 14 police station. They were produced before the district court and remanded in judicial custody.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/4-held-for-attack-on-cops-asha-workers/articleshow/75072992.cms||---
April 10, 2020||Mysuru||First patient from Nanjangud pharma firm is ready for discharge||Mysuru: There is some good news amid concerns over the rise in the number of Covid-19 cases in Mysuru. The first employee who tested positive for Covid-19, from a pharmaceutical firm in Nanjangud, is cured of the disease, and is likely to be discharged from the hospital soon. On Thursday, two more people tested positive for Covid-19, taking the total number of people suffering from the disease in the district to 36. These two patients are aged 55 and 68, the latter being the oldest among Covid-19 patients in the district. Mysuru Medical College and Research Institute dean and director C P Nanjaraj confirmed that the 35-year-old employee of the pharmaceutical firm has tested negative for Covid-19. “We’re waiting for the result of the second test. He is healthy and fit for discharge,” he said. The employee is one among 27 patients who tested positive for Covid-19, 26 of whom are in Mysuru. A person in Mandya, who is 32, and worked for the same pharmaceutical company, tested positive for Covid-19 on Thursday. All these patients were connected to Jubilant Generics. They were under quarantine in a hospital, since the last week of March. The 35-year-old youth tested positive for Covid-19 on March 26, even though he didn’t have any travel history. His was the first secondary infection case, perhaps in Karnataka. Of the total 37 Covid-19 patients in Mysuru, 26 are either employees of Jubilant Generics or their primary contacts. Eight of the patients are Delhi residents connected to Tablighi Jamaat who had come to Mysuru to preach. Two of the patients, who were not connected to the firm, had travelled to Dubai, and one among them is from Kerala, who is in a Myuru hospital. Mysuru’s first Covid-19 patient, who had travelled to Dubai, was discharged on April 7. Another patient, came in contact with the Kerala patient, and contracted Covid-19, and is also in hospital in Mysuru. As on date, about 1,836 people are still under home quarantine, and as many as 1,556 people have completed their quarantine of 14 days. C P Nanjaraj said all 36 patients who are at the Covid-19 hospital on KRS Road are doing fine. All the infected individuals aren’t showing any symptoms of Covid-19. They will continue to stay in the hospital till two subsequent tests come out negative, and their chest X-Ray results are clear. One among them is on ventilator support, but he is in a stable condition, he said. According to the authorities, except for one individual, who happens to be the father of an employee of the Nanjangud firm, all the other patients are below 55. ‘All primary, secondary contacts quarantined’ Deputy commissioner Abhiram G Sankar said that all primary and secondary contacts of Covid-19 patients have been quarantined, and are under observation of the district authorities. None of the primary contacts are missing, the DC said. Pharmaceutical firm gets legal notice District in-charge minister V Somanna told reporters that the district police have served legal notices to the managers of the pharmaceutical firm whose employees contracted Covid-19, asking them why action shouldn’t be taken against them for spreading an infectious disease. I have visited the firm twice and discussed the issue with them. Even health minister B Sreeramulu has discussed it in a cabinet meeting. An investigation is under way to know about the source of infection among employees of the pharmaceutical firm. The government has taken the issue seriously, said the minister.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mysuru/first-patient-from-nanjangud-pharma-firm-is-ready-for-discharge/articleshow/75071897.cms||---
April 10, 2020||Dehradun||In Haridwar’s sealed village, thousands of litres of milk being dumped in drains every day||HARIDWAR: In Gaindikhata village of Haridwar district, which has been sealed since April 2 due to suspected Covid-19 cases, thousands of litres of milk is being poured down the drains every day since villagers are not able to sell it. The village has over 800 families, almost all of whom are in the milk trade. With no person from the village being allowed to go out and outsiders not being able to come in, the milk business — on which the villagers, essentially Van Gujjars, depend — has come to a grinding halt. The distraught villagers have now appealed to the state government seeking urgent help in selling milk and procuring fodder for their cattle. The villagers claim that before the lockdown was enforced, the families here were cumulatively supplying 5,000 litres of milk every day — mainly in Rishikesh, Haridwar city and Dehradun. Now, not only has the supply stopped, they fear that their business might be dented in the future as well as their customers might not resume supply because of the village getting the tag of being a “Corona-infected zone.” A few days back, the villagers wrote to the administration of Rajaji Tiger Reserve (RTR), which adjoins the village, detailing the sudden crisis that has befallen them with the sealing of their village. They also pointed out to the largescale wastage of milk. A copy of their letter, which is with TOI, reads, “For us Gujjars, milk-selling is a primary source of income and with complete sealing of the village, we are unable to do so. As a result, we are facing an existential crisis.” Speaking to TOI, Gaindikhata's pradhan Bavita Devi said, “ Before sealing our village, the administration should have at least taken this fact into account that the village is primarily of a milk-selling community, and ensured ways of maintaining an uninterrupted supply of milk. Thousands of litres of milk is lying wasted in the village now." The Haridwar administration meanwhile said that they have made arrangements like distribution of ration at doorstep and supply of fodder for livestock, but cannot allow people from the village to go out to sell milk as the village had a large number of Jamaatis who might be infected with Covid-19. “The village had 98 Jamaatis and we are still waiting for their test reports. The risk factor therefore is quite high. That said, we have appointed two nodal officers for looking at the issues of villagers and are also looking at ways so that milk supply from the village can be done. For the time being, we have asked villagers to put their unused milk to other uses like making ghee, butter etc,” said Kusum Chauhan, sub-divisional magistrate (SDM), Haridwar.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/in-haridwars-sealed-village-thousands-of-litres-of-milk-being-dumped-in-drains-every-day/articleshow/75072991.cms||Shivani Azad
April 10, 2020||Kolkata||Bengal Chemicals awaits drug nod||Kolkata: Bengal Chemicals and Pharmaceuticals Ltd on Thursday applied to the Drug Controller General of India for the registration of its hydroxychloroquine formulation. The company hopes to get the licence in the next four-five days. The move assumes significance as during her interaction with industry captains on Thursday itself, chief minister Mamata Banerjee asked about the plans of the 120-year-old organization, considered a pioneer in the country’s pharmaceutical industry. “What is Bengal Chemical doing? As far as I know, they used to produce it (hydroxychloroquine),” she said. Bengal Chemicals still manufactures chloroquine, an analogous compound of hydroxychloroquine. Currently, Ipca Laboratories was the largest manufacturer of hydroxychloroquine in the world, followed by Torrent and Zydus Cadila, pointed out senior physician Sukumar Mukherjee. According to experts, hydroxychloroquine sulphate is an analogous compound of chloroquine phosphate, which Bengal Chemicals has been producing for decades. Chloroquine was first developed in 1934 and Bengal Chemicals started producing the anti-malarial drug even before Independence. With the advent of newer anti-malarial drugs, chloroquine was gradually Later, chloroquine and hydroxychloroquine were prescribed for other ailments, like Lupus and rheumatoid arthritis. Bengal Chemicals managing director PM Chandraiah told TOI it would soon get the formulation clearance for the most sought-after drug at present. They have 8 lakh chloroquine tablets, for which they had already got orders. “I heard what the CM said. We are ready to serve Bengal. Once we get the licence for hydroxychloroquine, we will start production. But we do not have much raw materials. If the state can arrange for it, we will convert them into tablets on a cost-to-cost basis,” he said. A top company official said hydroxychloroquine would be manufactured at their plant near EM Bypass-Maniktala crossing. “The only problem is the raw materials. Companies, like Ipcs, has its plantation of cinchona, the key raw material,” he said. Quinine, a key element of the tablet, is made from cinchona plants and is also made synthetically. The state chief secretary has requested CII North Bengal to talk to planters about supply. CII North Bengal chairman Sanjit Saha said, “We are in talks with the cinchona plantation director. We need to upgrade machines for quinine production.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/bengal-chemicals-awaits-drug-nod/articleshow/75073733.cms||Udit Prasanna Mukherji
April 10, 2020||Dehradun||Ganga water cleaner in Haridwar, Rishikesh; lockdown does what years of efforts couldn’t||HARIDWAR: A few weeks of lockdown has rendered possible what years of government efforts failed to do for the Ganga. Its water is “sparkling clear” at Rishikesh and Haridwar, an environmental scientist and former professor at the Gurukul Kangri University BD Joshi said. He added that it is after years that “Ganga water is worth achaman (ritual drinking) in Haridwar”. Echoing similar sentiments, Ganga Sabha general secretary Tanmay Vashishth told TOI that he has never seen Ganga so clean. Speaking to TOI, state pollution control board (PCB) regional officer RK Kathait said that there is an apparent change in the water quality of the river. “This may be due to a drastically reduced human intervention as no pilgrims are visiting Haridwar and Rishikesh following the lockdown,” he said, adding that the change is not due to closure of industries as earlier, too, commercial waste was not allowed to flow into the river.” The state PCB is closely monitoring the quality of Ganga water. A PCB team is regularly collecting samples from Devprayag, Vikasnagar, Rishikesh and Haridwar to be analysed at Dehradun and Haldwani laboratories. “The entire exercise is likely to take around five days and we expect the report by April 15,” PCB chief scientific officer SS Pal said. Pal added that Ganga water in Haridwar can be put under ‘B’ category which means it is worth bathing in and may be worth drinking after treatment. In Rishikesh, it falls in ‘A’ category, which means it is worth drinking after disinfection. He added that the water quality had improved because of the many sewage treatment plants (STPs) operating in the state. Dehradun has four STPs, followed by three each in Rishikesh and Haridwar, two each in Badrinath, Rudraprayag and Devprayag, and one each in Tehri, Srinagar and Karnaprayag. Pal added that the report will clear if the water has undergone further changes. Joshi, however, added that the cleaner water can be attributed to a 500% decrease in total dissolved solid (TDS), besides industrial effluent and sewage from hotels, lodges and dharmashalas.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/ganga-water-cleaner-in-haridwar-rishikesh-lockdown-does-what-years-of-efforts-couldnt/articleshow/75072994.cms||Sheo S Jaiswal
April 10, 2020||Chandigarh||UT employees to get full salaries||CHANDIGARH: The UT administration has decided to pay full salaries to all its employees — regular, contractual, outsourced ones and daily-wagers — during the lockdown period. UT adviser Manoj Parida said, “As the administration comes under the ministry of home affairs (MHA), it gets all its funds from the Centre’s consolidated fund of India. There is no shortage of funds with the UT. Its employees will get their full salaries during the lockdown. Orders in this regard have already been issued to all its boards, corporations and departments.” For private employees, UT home secretary Arun Kumar Gupta had issued a notification recently that read, “Employees of private establishments, industries, factories and shops, among others, (including temporary, casual, contractual, outsourced and daily-wage workers) who are required to stay at home in view of the orders of the Chandigarh administration shall be treated as on duty, and be paid in full.” The administration had imposed curfew in the city on March 23. It will continue till April 14.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/ut-employees-to-get-full-salaries-during-lockdown/articleshow/75072997.cms||Rajinder Nagarkoti
April 10, 2020||Kochi||List of retired health workers being prepared in district||Kochi: Dist health officials have prepared a list of retired doctors, nurses, paramedical staff, lab technicians and pharmacists to utilize their services during Covid 19 emergency situation, if need arises. The list comprises 38 doctors, 110 staff nurses, 18 pharmacists, eight lab technicians, 35 junior public health nurses and 21 junior health inpectors after 2015 in the district. “We have complied the list and submitted it to the state government. The move is to utilize the service and expertise of retired health workers during Covid emergency situation, if need arises in the district. We have not sought their willingness to be part of the preventive measures. But government will issue guidelines on how to utilize the services of the retired staff considering all aspects including their age, health and underlying health issues, if any,” said Dr N K Kuttapan, Ernakulam DMO. IMA officials said the authorities can use the service of retired staff under sections, which will not put their health at risk. “Tele medicine is one of the options where retired doctors could impart their service. Currently, many have been advised to utilize tele medicine service for mild cases to bring down rush of patients in hospitals. The retired health workers need not to be posted in hospitals, where patients in critical conditions will be treated for Covid-19. If a wave of Covid cases arise in the district, 80% of the patients can be treated either at home or in primary facility. The retired health workers force can be utilized for monitoring the patients at home and provide them medical advise,” said Dr Rajeev Jayadevan, president of IMA Kochi. According to district emergency response medical action plan, there are 518 doctors and 834 nurses in government sector in Ernakulam. Collector S Suhas had issued an order under Disaster Management Act 2005 that services of medical and paramedical staff of private hospitals and non-governmental institutions will also be utilized in fight the disease.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/list-of-retired-health-workers-being-prepared-in-district/articleshow/75063448.cms||M K Sunil Kumar
April 10, 2020||Lucknow||UP to procure 5 lakh rapid test kits to boost surveillance||LUCKNOW: The Uttar Pradesh government has decided to procure five lakh rapid test kits to ramp up surveillance and testing of people in the state for Covid-19. Officials informed that the tender floated for procurement of the kits will be opened on April 11. The kits would be used for health workers, those in quarantine facilities and in hotspots. Chief minister’s secretary Alok Kumar said: “Antibody testing for Covid-19 will start soon in UP. Health workers and other vulnerable population from hotspots will be in priority list.” Kerala, Maharashtra and Chhattisgarh have already rolled out these tests. Approved by the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) on April 2, the rapid test kits can tell if a person is Covid-19 positive or negative in about 30 minutesagainst the currently used RT PCR (real time polymerase chain reaction) test that takes about 12-15 hours. Principal secretary health and family welfare, Amit Mohan Prasad ,said: “Testing will be ramped up in a big way. Samples are to be taken in districts where no Covid-19 case has surfaced. On Wednesday, 1049 samples were tested. But the number has to be increased to 1800-2000 tests per day.” He added that the state government representatives were in talks with some providers to test the kits before the company selected through tender can start supplying. Health officials stated that the kits were a need of the hour. “The cluster containment plan – under which hotspots have been made — is already in action. Aggressive surveillance and testing is a part of the strategy and kits will naturally be needed,” admitted a health officer. Reminding that UP was home to 104 hotspots, experts lauded the government decision. “Firstly, more kits will mean lesser risk to health workers who face highest exposure to the contagion. Secondly, those in quarantine will be saved from longer stays in the centre and finally, highest population surveillance at a lower cost and repeated tracking of asymptomatic contacts will become possible,” said Dr AK Shukla, a former chief medical officer (CMO) and an expert in public health. Social scientist and expert in community medicine, Vishwajit Kumar, reminded of the challenge that may arise out of overuse of rapid kits. Those quarantined will be saved from longer stays: ExpertPrasad said: “On Wednesday, 1049 samples were tested. But the number has to be increased to 1800-2000 tests per day.” He added that the state government representatives were in talks with some providers to test the kits before the company selected through tender can start supplying. Health officials stated that the kits were a need of the hour. “The cluster containment plan – under which hotspots have been made — is already in action. Aggressive surveillance and testing is a part of the strategy and kits will naturally be needed,” admitted a health officer. Reminding that UP was home to 104 hotspots, experts lauded the government decision. “Firstly, more kits will mean lesser risk to health workers who face highest exposure to the contagion. Secondly, those in quarantine will be saved from longer stays in the centre and finally, highest population surveillance at a lower cost and repeated tracking of asymptomatic contacts will become possible,” said Dr AK Shukla, a former chief medical officer (CMO) and an expert in public health. Social scientist and expert in community medicine, Vishwajit Kumar, reminded of the challenge that may arise out of overuse of rapid kits. “The diagnostic accuracy — or assessment of how reliable a test is — may pose challenges for health authorities. They will have to work out ways to deal with false positive or false negative cases.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/up-to-procure-5l-rapid-test-kits-to-boost-surveillance/articleshow/75074252.cms||Shailvee Sharda
April 10, 2020||Dehradun||Uttarakhand: Illicit liquor trade flourishing in the hills during lockdown||NAINITAL: With the focus of police and district administration across the state mainly on enforcing the Covid-19 lockdown and social distancing, the liquor mafia has been sensing an opportunity and getting increasingly active in the hills. Police officials in Kumaon said that since the 21-day lockdown came into force, illicit liquor seizures in hills have gone up. Over the past week, administration and police teams have seized and destroyed illicit liquor units in places such as Amthal village in Pithoragarh, Almora and Bageshwar. "The lockdown has been strictly enforced in cities and towns of the plains. However, due to this, the liquor mafia is seeing it as an opportunity to get more active in hills. Recent patterns of seizure justifies that," said a police official.The official said that revenue police had recently found over 700 litres of illicit liquor in Amthal village of Pithoragarh district. "The revenue police were informed by locals and as they reached the spot, they found over 700 litres of liquor in a field," the official added. The police officials in Almora further said that since the lockdown, they have seized around 650 liquor bottles and picked up 12 people.The liquor's market value is estimated to be over 3.5 lakh. "Two individuals were arrested and booked under the Excise Act on Thursday. We are trying to find out how they managed to smuggle these goods into the town during a lockdown," Navin Joshi, SHO of Almora, said. In Bageshwar, police have registered three cases since the lockdown. Kumaon Range DIG, Jagatram Joshi, said that due to police's strict measures, the liquor trade has been affected in the plains. But, since the villages in the hills are more scattered with low police presence, there is a possibility that the liquor mafia is becoming more active there.” (With inputs from Rohit Joshi)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/illicit-liquor-trade-flourishing-in-the-hills-during-lockdown/articleshow/75073006.cms||Prashant Jha
April 10, 2020||Kochi||Vets & officials in 3 dists team up for surgery on pug||Thrissur: In an act of humanitarian gesture, officials and veterinarians teamed up to provide treatment to a pug suffering from eye injuries overcoming the constraints of lockdown. A woman from Kasaragod brought her injured dog to a clinic attached with the Veterinary University at Pookkode in Wayanad, after passing through two districts amidst tough traffic restrictions in place. It was an emergency situation: The one-year old pug, Tintu, had developed an eye problem, which required an urgent surgical intervention, the veterinary surgeon of the Meridian Veterinary Centre at Kanhangad , Dr E M Avinash had informed Sobha, the dog owner. Dr Avinash then spoke to Dr S Sooryadas of the department of veterinary surgery and radiology of Kerala Veterinary and Animal Sciences University (KVASU), and notwithstanding the lockdown, he agreed to perform the surgery if the pug was brought to Pookkode. Sobha then got in touch with Wayanad collector Dr Adeela Abdulla, who assured support to avoid any difficulties during the travel. Kannur S P Yathish Chandra and Kasaragod DSP Sudhakaran Nair also extended their support. “I was very attached to the dog, and I could not think of losing it. That is why I took the risk. We left home around 4am on Wednesday with the dog in a car, and surprisingly we didn’t have much of a problem during our journey. We were able to reach the university at 9am, ‘’ Sobha said. Tintu was suffering from a condition called staphyloma, the protrusion of iris due to an ulcer on the cornea. “If not attended, the condition could have led to blindness, infections and could have been fatal,’’ Dr Sooryadas said. A team of resident doctors and post-graduate students assisted Dr Sooryadas in the surgery, which included pedicle grafting of the corneal injury. The surgery was successful and the dog was taken back after it recovered from the anaesthesia. “The dog is now fine and a review will be conducted after two weeks,’’ vice-chancellor of the university, M R Saseendranath said. “We had to face some difficulties on our return journey as the police blocked us at Kelakam in Kannur. We were detained for about one and a half hour at Kelakam police station. We reached home by 9pm,’’ Sobha said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/vets-officials-in-3-dists-team-up-for-surgery-on-pug/articleshow/75071926.cms||T Ramavarman
April 10, 2020||Pune||Post-noon, cops in Pune tell grocers to shut shops||PUNE: The city police on Thursday asked grocery retailers in several non-containment zones to pull down shutters of their shops after 12noon as a part of an exercise to curtail crowding and stop alleged leisure purchasing. All shops, barring medical stores, downed their shutters after 12noon in areas under the jurisdiction of Kothrud, Warje Malwadi, Sinhagad Road, Dattawadi and Alankar police stations. The police also conducted strict checking of vehicles in these areas. The retailers in the eastern parts of the city, like Vadgaonsheri and adjoining areas off Pune-Ahmednagar highway, and on Baner-Pashan Link Road and surrounding areas did not experience the same. The police move caught many citizens unaware and they wondered if the action was contrary to the state government’s announcement of letting essential commodities’ shops operate 24X7. Moreover, these areas do not fall within the containment zones like the central parts (the Peth areas), Swargate and Kondhwa police station areas, where a curfew is in place and grocery stores are allowed to operate only for two hours — 10am to 12noon. Joint commissioner of police Ravindra Shisve told TOI, “We had to take the closure decision as a precautionary measure in some areas because people are still not listening to our repeated appeals to avoid crowding and maintain social distancing norms.” Another senior officer, who did not wish to be named, said, “We have observed that people in the areas where we told shopkeepers to down their shutters at 12noon, were indulging in leisure shopping by buying one or two commodities every day. Covid-19 positive cases have been reported from some slum pockets in these areas where many are into vegetable vending and setting up small shops. Thus the risk of virus spread is high.” Sachin Nivangune, the president of the Pune District Retail Merchants’ Association, told TOI, “We have conveyed a message to all retail traders in the city and district to operate their vegetable, milk and grocery stores between 7am and 12noon. Our members, too, are at risk as many visit their shops. For their and the customers’ safety, we have taken the decision.” Nivangune said, “Our association has made arrangements for home delivery in case of emergencies. We have shared the contact numbers of our members for this purpose.” Nivangune can be contacted on 9763082353 for help. The other members of the association, including Navnath Somase (9823863365), Sunil Gehlot (7387297905), Ajit Changedia (9850707204), Bhavar Chaudhary (9822238622), Vijay Singhavi (9822400324), Prasanna Patil (9604100256), Kailas Dangi (9890054289) and Dayavan Kumawat (7722074447), would be available for home delivery assistance. Senior inspector Pratibha Joshi of the Kothrud police told TOI, “The president and some members of the retail merchants’ body met us and said they would like to operate only till noon everyday considering the safety aspect of people.” On Thursday morning, the police installed barricades in several lanes connecting the main roads in Kothrud and Paud Road areas. “We want to restrict unnecessary movement. People can walk to pharmacies or grocery stores,” said Pournima Gaikwad, the deputy commissioner of police (Zone-III). Social distancing goes for a tossOn Thursday morning, a huge crowd gathered at vegetable stalls set up along a small road in Sutardara slum. The Kothrud police immediately told all the vendors to shut shop when they came to know about it.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/cops-tell-grocery-retailers-in-non-containment-zones-to-shut-shops-after-noon/articleshow/75073730.cms||Mihir Tanksale
April 10, 2020||Thiruvananthapuram||Sitting home, kids of Attingal make a digital magazine||Thiruvananthapuram: For Neeharika N S, a class VII student, of Bharatiya Vidya Bhavan words weren’t enough to describe about her ancestral home in Attingal, while for Niveditha N G, a class IV student of Government LPS, Mevarkal memories kept unwinding one after the other when she started penning about her village and games she likes to play with her grandparents during the summer break. Similar were the situations of all the students contributed for a digital magazine that was published last week. The digital magazine titled ‘Thazh-Chitra-Mani’, features stories, poems, drawings and paintings contributed by children living in Karavaram panchayat. The digital magazine was an idea proposed by Oppam Charity, a group functioning at Njarakkaattuvila, near Attingal. “We have conducted several programmes in association with Govt LPS Mevarkal in the past. Based on the thought that children don’t have adequate activities due to the lockdown, we decided to publish a magazine comprising the works of students. There was good response from school teachers. They sent us material written by the students for the magazine. The work started around 10 days ago and we could get works of more than 10 students”, said Niji N G, president of Oppam Charity The magazine also has an article by Sheeja P S, former headmistress from the school who retired from service recently. Niji said articles from students are reaching them even after the publication of magazine. Articles are sent by students to a WhatsApp group of classmates and teachers. The magazine had published the handwritten works of students and had also included a printed note of the article or poem. Interview with grandparents and recipe of their favorite dish have also been featured in the magazine. Apart from the works of students, the magazine also has contents from school alumni and children in the neighbourhood. The magazine is available on https://www.flipsnack.com/ impressionsmagazine/newsletter-f7tpqjcx2.html “We didn’t make much corrections in the creative works of children but asked them to improvise. They rewrote the article and sent it. We passed it to the Oppam Charity team, who did the layout of the magazine. We encourage students to read and we have classroom libraries here,” said Premachandran K, headmaster, Government LPS, Mevarkal. Premachandran had earlier received an award from education department for promoting reading habits among students.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/thiruvananthapuram/sitting-home-kids-of-attingal-make-a-digital-magazine/articleshow/75071903.cms||---
April 10, 2020||Pune||Supermarkets in Pune ensure gap even as they work full time||PUNE: Retail grocers may have decided to operate only till noon each day from Thursday, but the branches of all supermarket chains in the city will continue functioning all day long, much to the relief of residents. A D-Mart employee confirmed that they had not received any communication from the management against staying open all through the day. “We are functioning all day as we have not received any orders to close the store early. In Mumbai, there are restrictions on timings but not in Pune. Since the lockdown was announced, we have made it mandatory for customers to get a coupon issued one day in advance. The coupon mentions the time slot for shopping on the following day when the customers are expected to come for shopping. Only about 10 to 15 customers are allowed inside the store every hour. The staffers, including that for billing and stocking, have been reduced for now. Those working have been provided with all protective gear,” he said. Likewise, Big Bazaar too has all its outlets across the city open through the day. “We have drawn boxes outside the store for customers waiting in line. besides, a limited number of persons are allowed inside the store at one time to avoid crowding,” a security guard at a Big Bazaar outlet said, adding that the rule of social distancing was being followed, considering the Covid-19 spread and the resultant lockdown. A representative from Star Bazaar also said all their outlets were open from 9am to 7pm every day. “People need to obtain tokens between 9am and 10am before being allowed entry to make purchases. Timing for entry into the store is mentioned on the token and customers can come back at that time to make purchases,” the representative said. A local supermarket chain, Fine Foods, is also set to remain open for the stipulated work hours. “Since the lockdown commenced, we have been operating between 9.30am and 5.30pm. We will continue to work during these hours,”an employee said. He said, “To maintain social distancing, we are allowing only two or three customers into the store at a time. A bottle of sanitizer has been kept outside the shop and must be used by people before entry.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/supermarkets-ensure-gap-even-as-they-work-full-time/articleshow/75073745.cms||Rujuta Parekh
April 10, 2020||Surat||FIRs in social distancing rule violation||Surat: With Covid-19 cases rising, the Surat Municipal Corporation (SMC) has warned people of harsher steps if they violate social distancing rules "On Thursday, we penalized 148 people for not maintaining social distancing and 99 for not wearing masks in public places. We will take strict actions including lodging FIRs as well. We have asked vendors and other grocers to ensure customers maintain two metre distance,'' said Banchhanidhi Pani, municipal commissioner, Surat. SMC is worried about the spread of the pandemic as local transmission cases are on the rise cases of asymptomatic persons are reported now. "Till Thursday evening, 22 positive cases have been reported in Surat city. Of these, four had foreign travel history, two had travelled inter-state while seven contracted infections through close contacts of positive patients. Nine were local transmissions,'' Pani added. SMC officials said 88 cases of acute respiratory infections were found, while 9 new suspected cases were also reported on Thursday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/firs-in-social-distancing-rule-violation/articleshow/75071701.cms||---
April 10, 2020||Kochi||Mud crabs, tiger prawns are a steal||Kochi: Tiger prawns and green mud crabs are increasingly landing at culinary pots in city kitchens with the export process coming to a halt on account of the lockdown. The huge price drop of the commodity has brought joy to consumers but fish farmers say their losses are mounting. The highly-priced mud crabs, preferred by exporters because of its size, meat quality and live export potential, used to fetch a price of Rs 2,400 per kilogram but are currently being sold at Rs 300 and Rs 400 at local markets. Tiger prawns priced at Rs 1,100 per kilogram fetch not more than Rs 500, says Shyam Sundar, a fish farmer. “Price of fish that are daily consumed like karimeen (pearl spot) and naaran chemmeen (Indian prawn) has gone up because of lack of availability but those of mud crabs and tiger prawns have come down,” he said. They are currently being sold at local markets that function abiding social distancing norms. “For farmers, this is a huge loss. We grow them giving expensive feed,” he said. K A Thomas, a fish farmer and secretary of Kadamakkudy Nellulpadaka Padasekhara Samiti said since exporters are not taking the produce, he had to sell mud crabs for Rs 300 to Rs 400 per kilogram. Farmers have been hit really hard,” said Thomas, adding that while the current crisis is on account of Covid-19 situation, price of shrimp has not improved when compared to what they used to fetch two decades ago. “I think marine products exporters authority (MPEDA) needs to help the farmers get a better price for their produce,” Thomas said. On April 3, MPEDA came out with a notice, warning exporters against taking advantage of the lockdown situation and offering low price to shrimp farmers. MPEDA secretary B Sreekumar said this notice was meant as a warning to exporters in Andhra Pradesh and not in Kerala. “None of the exporters are procuring in Kerala and all factories are closed,” said seafood exporters association of India president Alex Ninan.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/mud-crabs-tiger-prawns-are-a-steal/articleshow/75063470.cms||Binu Karunakaran
April 10, 2020||Nagpur||Be warrior, not enemy, in fight against Covid-19: Civic chief||NAGPUR: With an appeal to all for becoming warriors and not enemies in the fight to control Covid-19, municipal commissioner Tukaram Mundhe said Nagpur Municipal Corporation (NMC) had no plans to install fumigation tunnels in city. Mundhe said Covid-19 could be controlled if everyone stayed at home as much as possible and wore masks and maintained social distancing when stepping out to procure essential goods. Some medical institutions and corporations in the country had started to install sanitization tunnels in which disinfectant is sprayed on persons as a means to check coronavirus spread. Mundhe told TOI it was serious that number of cases was on the rise in the state. He said cases in city as of now were low due to various measures and cooperation of the people. “For becoming warrior against Covid-19, one should stay at home and get all services there itself. If going out is essential, people should wear mask and maintain social distancing. They should also properly wash hands before entering home. Those who do not follow these rules are enemies of themselves, family and society,” he said. Mundhe had issued a notification on Wednesday warning of an offence against the persons who do not wear mask when emerging out of homes. On Thursday, collector Ravindra Thakare issued similar notification for entire district. Home minister Anil Deshmukh too made the same appeal on Thursday. NMC had undertaken various steps to provide home delivery of vegetables, fruits, medicines etc. The civic body also allowed more medical shops to remain open round-the-clock to avoid rush. Vegetable markets where social distancing is practised have been developed on some playgrounds. NMC even started door-to-door medical services. It has facilitated food to over 1.50 lakh people and accommodation for migrants. An app has also been launched to enable people to provide information if they have any symptom. Door-to-door survey of high-risk patients has been started which helped in detecting two positive patients. Close contacts of positive patients have been traced, examined and quarantined within 12 hours as part of containment drive. Slums like Takia Deewanshah and Satranjipura Badi Masjid area have been cordoned off after positive cases were found there. A week ago, NMC had installed a wash basin at the head office and made washing hands compulsory before entering.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/be-warrior-not-enemy-in-fight-against-covid-19-civic-chief/articleshow/75073754.cms||Anjaya Anparthi
April 10, 2020||Thiruvananthapuram||New positive case is the oldest patient in T’puram||Thiruvananthapuram: The district recorded the third case of local transmission by contact owing to lapses in compliance with home quarantine here on Thursday. An 80-year old woman from Kallattumukku, who is the mother of the person who was earlier tested positive for Covid-19 and discharged, was tested positive on Thursday. The district now has six active cases. A total of 15 cases have been reported in the district so far of which eight persons have been cured and one person died. The person from Kallatumukku who had arrived from Dubai on March 22 was under home isolation for eight days. He was tested for Covid-19 following severe cough and his samples were tested positive on April 1. He was recently discharged and he is under observation at Nedumangadu district hospital. According to authorities, the person had volunteered to be taken to hospital instead of his home for the mandatory days of observation after his samples were tested negative. His mother may have been exposed to infection during his period of home quarantine. Earlier, two kids of a person from Malayinkeezhu who was under treatment for Covid-19 had also tested positive on March 31. The person arrived from Dubai and was advised to go on home quarantine. He stayed at home for five days and the authorities said that the norms were compromised which may have exposed his family members. The person who came from Britain to the city and was tested positive had compromised on home quarantine which made district collector K Gopalakrishnan repeatedly insist on the need to stick with the norms. The district administration is also making the families choose a single member to take care of the person under home quarantine rather than random family members interacting with the person. The ministry of health and family welfare has recently brought out guidelines on home quarantine in which instructions for the family members of persons being home quarantined are clearly laid out. It says that only an assigned family member should be tasked with taking care of the person under quarantine. The district now has 5,452 persons on home quarantine. As many as 793 persons completed 28-day observation period and 131 persons were brought under surveillance on Thursday. As many as 117 samples were sent for testing on Thursday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/thiruvananthapuram/new-positive-case-is-the-oldest-patient-in-tpuram/articleshow/75071921.cms||---
April 10, 2020||Agra||Lockdown effect: Clean air, transparent Yamuna||Agra: An unintended consequence of the nationwide lockdown, which has hit people and the economy hard, is a marked improvement in the quality of air and water, with the Yamuna turning decidedly cleaner and transparent. Literally, coronavirus and the lockdown have done what successive governments have promised to do but failed to follow up with. While air quality in Agra was recorded as “satisfactory” on Thursday, the Yamuna has turned transparent, a sight which even Agra veterans can’t recall. Clean water flowing behind the Taj is practically unimaginable, which is why the Union and state governments had had to release 500 cusecs to make the river appear presentable for US Presìdent Donald Trump’s visit in February. Mathura MP Hema Malini also tweeted a few pictures of the Yamuna in Mathura, saying it was amazing to see the pollution-free river. Normally, Yamuna gets polluted by effluents from industries along its banks, as well as bathing and washing by poor people living along its path, leftover and used flowers, garlands etc offered to the gods, and the like. Since lockdown has put a cap on all such activity, nature appears to have quickly regained vigour. Activist Gopeshwar Nath Chaturvedi, who had filed a PIL in Allahabad high court in 1998 for cleaning the river, said the major gamechanger has been a drastic fall in discharge of industrial effluents into the water.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/agra/lockdown-effect-clean-air-transparent-yamuna/articleshow/75071931.cms||---
April 10, 2020||Pune||Pune: Limited hours may have a negative impact||PUNE: Consumer activists and citizens said restricting the hours of operation for grocery stores could have a negative repercussion on crowding but conceded that such a measure was needed to curb the rapid spread of Covid-19 with some workable alternatives. Grahak Panchayat activist Vijay Sagar said, “The move cannot be seen as contradicting the state government’s announcement permitting round-the-clock operation of essential commodities’ stores. It was an announcement, not an order. Instead of a blanket time slot, the authorities can experiment with varied time slots for shops in different areas to operate with proper police deployment to ensure social distancing norms. Yuvraj Chaudhary, a student, said, “Limited hours means more people will step out of their homes in a smaller time period. The authorities will have to remain present during the morning hours to prevent crowding and streamline buyers instead of shutting down shops.” A working professional from Deccan said, “When we go to stores now, only a few people are present who await their turn to make purchases. With a limited time-frame, there will either be crowding or bulk buying.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/limited-hours-may-have-a-negative-impact/articleshow/75073737.cms||Rujuta Parekh
April 10, 2020||Kolhapur||Police start noting down details of vehicles entering Kolhapur district||KOLHAPUR: As a precautionary measure, Kolhapur police have started noting down the details of vehicles with essential commodities entering the district. The aim is to keep a tab on the number of people entering the district to provide essential services and track them in case one develops Covid-19 symptoms after coming in contact with the ones entering the district and vice versa, police said. Prashat Amrutkar, deputy superintendent of police, Karveer division, said, “The instructions have been issued by the senior police officials to all the police personnel deployed on the checkpoints at the entrance of Kolhapur district. The police on duty will note the details of the vehicle, its number, the name of driver and co-passenger if any, and get their mobile phone numbers. The driver will also have to reveal his travel history and tell the police from where they got the service pass.” “This will help us in keeping a check on the number of goods carriers entering the district. This information will be useful to trace them and people with whom they come in contact. In case anyone related to them develops the Covid-19 symptoms, we can identify these people for further action in order to prevent spread of the virus,” he said. Meanwhile, police found 13 people who were roaming on the road despite being asked to home quarantine themselves. Cases have been registered against them. Police have detained 315 motorcycles and received fine worth Rs 76,400 from those who were found roaming on road without any valid reason. Police have registered two cases against two people for circulating messages on social media that can affect social peace.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolhapur/police-start-noting-down-details-of-vehicles-entering-kolhapur-district/articleshow/75073741.cms||Vivek Waghmode
April 10, 2020||Agra||19 more, including 2 docs, test positive for Covid-19 in Agra in a day||Agra: With 19 more people testing positive for Covid-19 in the district in the past 24 hours, the number of patients in Agra jumped to 84, the highest in the state, on Thursday. A new case also surfaced in the neighbouring Aligarh. Out of the new cases, five were related to people who had attended the Tablighi Jamaat event in Delhi’s Nizamuddin. Another seven were associated to a private hospital on the National Highway 2 where a patient who later tested positive was admitted. Another three cases are family members of the 76-year-old coronavirus infected woman who died on Wednesday. Besides, a doctor at the SN Medical College who was treating the infected patients and a ward boy of the isolation ward have been tested positive. A doctor of Sainya block community health centre (CHC) too tested positive. A silver trader at Rajamandi locality also tested positive. Chief medical officer Dr Mukesh Kumar Vats said, “All the 19 confirmed coronavirus infected patients have been shifted to the isolation facility. A team of doctors is attending to them. We are screening people in the areas around their residences and the places they had visited and their contacts are being identified.” Out of the total 84 cases in Agra, 43 are related to people who had attended the Tablighi Jamaat event in Delhi and their contracts. The health department teams had shifted 137 people from eight different mosques of the city to three quarantine centres. Police have sealed areas around mosques in the city. Drone-mounted cameras are being used to ensure strict enforcement of the lockdown in densely populated localities. District magistrate Prabhu N Singh said, “So far, 84 coronavirus cases have surfaced in Agra. Eight people have been cured of the infection and discharged from the hospital. All the people who had come in contact with any Covid-19 patient are being screened. We have marked 23 places in the city as Covid-19 epicentre and sealed them. We have planned massive sampling to identify all the infected patients and send them to institutional quarantine. Citizens are advised to strictly follow home quarantine so that the spread of coronavirus can be stopped.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/agra/19-more-including-2-docs-test-positive-for-covid-19-in-agra-in-a-day/articleshow/75071922.cms||Deepak Lavania
April 10, 2020||Pune||Checkpoints in Pune to test people entering rural pockets of district||PUNE: Those travelling from the city to the rural areas of the district will be stopped at one of the 20 checkpoints set up to test for symptoms. The checkpoints have been set up by the zilla parishad in conjunction with the police and health officials. So far, the rural parts have seen only six cases. The checkpoints are equipped with an infrared thermometer and those showing symptoms will be referred to the nearest primary healthcare centre or even sent back to the city for treatment. “Every vehicle will be checked and sanitized. We have tied up with ambulance services to send anyone back to the city,” Pune ZP CEO Ayush Prasad told TOI. The staff manning the checkpoints have been issued the necessary PPE. The checkpoints have been set up at Velu, Khed Shivapur, Somatane, Sus, Hinjewadi, Bhugaon, Kadamakvasti, Vadki, Wagholi, Dehu, Nanded. Kondwe Dhavade, Chimbali, Moi, Lonavla (2), Malshej ghat, Junnar and Alephata. “With over 100 cases reported in a day and 12 deaths, it was necessary to ensure that it does not spread to the rural areas,” deputy ZP CEO Vishwas Sid said. “We would be maintaining records of individuals travelling and those with symptoms, so that they can be admitted and then tracked,” Pune rural superintendent of police Sandeep Patil said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/checkpoints-to-test-people-entering-rural-pockets-of-dist/articleshow/75073750.cms||Nisha Nambiar
April 10, 2020||Hyderabad||Telangana: Two men booked for not disclosing Nizamuddin Markaz visit||HYDERABAD: Two Tablighi Jamaat attendees from Ramagundam were booked for hiding their visit to Nizamuddin Markaz in March. Also, one of them recently tested positive for Covid-19 and authorities have placed 32 people, who were primary contacts of the two men, under quarantine. On Thursday, police registered two separate cases against the local men for not hiding their travel histroy to Nizamuddin Markaz. Ramagundam police have registered a case against a private employee, who returned from Delhi on March 18 by train. “He is a resident of Ramagundam. After returning from Markaz, he moved in and around the town and nearby places. Even after the government appealed asking people who went to Markaz to approach voluntarily for health examination, he did not turn up before the health officials,” Ramagundam inspector Karunakar Rao said. Police have also booked another man, a resident of a colony in NTPC, for not informing the authorities about his visit to Nizamuddin Markaz. “The second person also returned from Nizamuddin Markaz on March 18 by train. After we traced him, his samples were sent to lab and he tested positive for Covid-19. We have identified 32 persons who were in contact with the two men. All of them have been placed under quarantine. Their samples have also been sent to lab,” inspector Rao added. Police booked the two men under Sections 420, 269, 270, 188 of the Indian Penal Code (IPC), Section 3 of the Epidemic Diseases Act-1897, Section 51 (b) of the Disaster Management Act-2005. On Wednesday, Ramagundam police had booked 10 Indonesians, who tested positive for the virus after they had arrived in Telangana from Nizamuddin Markaz in the second week of March and have since recovered. The Indonesians were booked for violation of visa rules. Police have also booked the organiser of a place of worship in Ramagundam for not informing them about the visit of the foreigners.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/two-men-booked-for-not-disclosing-markaz-visit/articleshow/75073752.cms||Mahesh Buddi
April 10, 2020||Kolhapur||Demand for face masks rises after collector’s strict order in Kolhapur||KOLHAPUR: Pharmacies across Kolhapur witnessed rise in sale of face masks a day after district collector Daulat Desai made wearing of masks mandatory for people stepping out of their homes for buying essentials or any other essential work during the lockdown. As per the order issued by the district collector, it is mandatory for people to wear face mask when they are out in public place, including roads, hospitals, offices and markets. People travelling in their personal vehicles and those working in their offices should also wear masks. It is not necessary that the mask should be a three-layer or of N-95 standard. People can also use mask made from cloth or even use a handkerchief to cover their face, given it is clean. People have also been asked to follow the social distancing norm. Sanjay Shete, president of chemist’s association (Kolhapur), said, “All pharmacies in the city have sufficient face masks as we have ensured the enough stock is maintained to meet the need of people. As per the government’s instructions we are allowed to sell face masks made up of clothes along with 3-ply and 2-ply face masks. We have noticed that customers come up with demand of N-95 face masks which is not allowed to be sold to the public for daily use.” He added, “We have been asked to provide N-95 masks only to the hospitals and doctors working there. Hence, we appeal people to the people to use simple masks available at the medical stores which are sufficient to prevent the spread of the virus. We are supplying the masks to the medical stores as per requirement ensuring that there is no shortage of masks in the district.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolhapur/demand-for-face-masks-rises-after-collectors-strict-order/articleshow/75073751.cms||---
April 10, 2020||Delhi||GB Pant removed from list of designated Covid-19 facilities||NEW DELHI: Delhi Government on Thursday removed G B Pant Hospital from the Covid-19 designated list, a day after TOI highlighted how patients from Lok Nayak and G B Pant Hospital were being discharged without any alternative arrangement for beds. An Old Delhi resident, who had suffered from kidney-related complications, died because she couldn’t get admission elsewhere after being discharged. An order issued by the state government’s special secretary (health and family welfare) stated: “Competent authority has decided to remove G B Pant Hospital from the designated Covid-19 hospital list keeping in view difficulties faced by general patients who are receiving treatment at G B Pant Hospital in super specialty streams.” The order also said that Lok Nayak Hospital will create an additional 500 beds capacity by utilising the OPD spaces and newly constructed block of MAIDS (Maulana Azad Institute of Dental Sciences), in lieu of beds proposed to be designated in G B Pant Hospital. In the past two weeks, more than 800 patients were discharged or advised to go to other hospitals by Lok Nayak Hospital and G B Pant Hospital because the two facilities were being turned into Covid-19 designated centres. On Thursday, three patients and their three attendants were spotted walking on foot to Guru Teg Bahadur Hospital in east Delhi’s Shahdara, which is more than 13 kilometre away, after they were told that Lok Nayak Hospital’s waiting area had been closed. “My father has kidney problem and spine damage. We were staying in the waiting room at Lok Nayak because my father has to visit the OPD twice a week to get injections. But they told us to go to another hospital,” Ankit Sharma, son of one of the patient, a resident of Bihar, told TOI. Aam Aadmi Party MLA Dilip Pandey responded to a tweet highlighting their plight and arranged for an ambulance to take the patients to the hospital. “Ambulance took them to GTB Hospital emergency, doctor paid a visit. They will undergo check-ups, tests, etc, the day after tomorrow. Today, their stay has been arranged in a nearby DUSIB’s night shelter. Hope and wish all for them to be well (sic),” Pandey tweeted. The MLA from Timarpur said of the three patients, one has kidney ailment, another has psychiatric health issues while the third one has neurological problems. Suresh Sharma, the patient, said he was thankful to the AAP MLA for helping him out. “I am a patient of cervical spondylosis for over 10 years now. Recently, I developed kidney problems and need regular dialysis,” the 42-year-old said, who was accompanied by his 16-year-old son, who suffers from epilepsy.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/gb-pant-removed-from-list-of-designated-covid-19-facilities/articleshow/75074284.cms||Durgesh Nandan Jha
April 10, 2020||Mangaluru||Karnataka: Border reopens, Kerala patient treated at Deralakatte||MANGALURU: Only one patient from Kerala in need of emergency medical attention entered Karnataka through the border at Talapady on Thursday. The medical team at Talapady allowed the patient to enter Karnataka after verification. The patient was taken to KS Hegde Medical College, Deralakatte, which is designated as the hospital to treat non-coronavirus patients from Kerala. District health and family welfare officer Dr Ramachandra Bairy said that the patient had sustained head injury. “A CT scan was done on the patient and later they returned,” Dr Bairy said. Surveillance and restrictions continue at Talapady without any issues, he added. After the rise in Covid-19 cases in the neighbouring Kasargod district of Kerala, the Dakshina Kannada administration had sealed the border at Talapady. Vehicular movement under surveillance and with restrictions resumed at Talapady on Wednesday after the state government decided to allow ambulances in need of emergency care.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mangaluru/border-reopens-kerala-patient-treated-at-deralakatte/articleshow/75071936.cms||---
April 10, 2020||Vijayawada||1st Covid-19 death in Guntur dist||Guntur: Guntur district reported its first death due to Covid-19 when a 41-year old from Narasaraopet died on Wednesday night. The victim, a technician at a local cable television network, was undergoing treatment for tuberculosis. The test result came positive for Covid-19 after he passed away at the ID Hospital. The patient has had no contacts with foreign returnees. Till now, there had been no Covid-19 cases in Narasaraopet. Local legislator Dr Gopireddy Srinivasa Reddy, revenue divisional officer (RDO) Venkateswaralu along with municipal and police officials inspected the area and cordoned off the neighbouring colonies. The areas adjacent to Varavakatta including Ramireddipeta were declared as red zones. The locals were directed not to venture out until further instructions. According to information, the victim approached Government General Hospital (GGH), Guntur, citing breathing trouble 10 days ago. He was shifted to the ID hospital for Covid-19 treatment. The district administration has put all the staff who treated the patient at ID hospital on quarantine. Meanwhile, the officials are trying to find out how the victim contracted Covid-19 and from whom. He had not left the town in the last one month. “He used to collect cable television dues from local customers. Since he was a TB patient, he might have become easy prey to Covid-19 from one of his asymptomatic customers,” said a senior health official. The patient had no contacts with foreign returnees. The family members and primary contacts are under home quarantine. Till now, there had been no cases in Narasaraopet.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/1st-covid-19-death-in-guntur-dist/articleshow/75073041.cms||Samdani MN
April 10, 2020||Vijayawada||Immunity-boosting diet on offer at quarantine centres||Vijayawada: At the 16 quarantine centres across the district, officials are ensuring that a special diet is provided to 450 persons suspected to have Covid-19. Authorities of the health wing are focusing on boosting the immunity of the suspected patients through a protein-rich diet prescribed by physicians. Eggs, milk, banana and tender coconut water have been included in the diet, as have dry fruits and nuts such as cashew nuts, almonds and raisins. Wilson Babu, district nodal officer for quarantine centers, said they have focused on improving the immunity of persons in quarantine. “Close contacts of coronavirus-infected patients have the maximum chance of infection. Boosting immunity will help them fight the virus naturally. We are providing all amenities for the persons under quarantine. Special kits which include new clothes, toothbrush, shaving kits, soap, towel and 15 other essential goods were given to them,” he said. A number of voluntary organisations have also come forward to provide nutritious food. The Swarna Bharat Trust donated 25 kilograms of cashew nuts, while Kutumba Rao, a member of the district poultry traders’ association donated around 10,000 eggs, Wilson Babu said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/immunity-boosting-diet-on-offer-at-quarantine-centres/articleshow/75073049.cms||Venu Lanka
April 10, 2020||Kochi||KVK to supply chicks at the doorstep of Kochi homes||Kochi: The Krishi Vigyan Kendra (KVK) at the Central Marine Fisheries Research Institute (CMFRI) is supplying poultry chicks at doorstep for rearing. It will also give online classes on how to produce meat and eggs at homes. The lock down can be effectively utilized to learn and practice self-production of safe food materials even in limited space. The poultry chick supply is within Kochi corporation limits and also in Vypin, as of now. However, KVK officials said they would consider the requests for delivery outside these limits on a case-by-case basis. Those who are interested can book by sending a WhatsApp message or making a call to 94461 20244. “The two-month-old and properly vaccinated chicks of Kadaknath (Karimkozhi) and Thalasserry desi birds would be supplied at homes as units of one male and four female chicks,” said Shinoj Subramannian, head-KVK. He said one unit of Kadaknath cost Rs.1,325 and Thalassery Rs.1,075. “We have been regularly buying one-day old chicks from Kerala veterinary university and central poultry development organization and rearing it through our satellite production centres. The farmers are trained to ensure that all the 40-60 days vaccination have been given properly and the chicks are safe to eat. At the end of 60 days, we help the farmers organise a sale. But since the lockdown, we have two sets of pending sales. Since we can’t organise a mela, we decided to do door delivery by taking orders,” he said. Since every sale includes a training programme on how to rear the chicks, an online class on poultry rearing is also scheduled for Saturday from 10.30am to 12.30pm on KVK’s Facebook page ‘ICAR-Krishi Vigyan Kendra Ernakulam’. People can clear their doubts by watching this. Meanwhile, KVK has also been taking in calls from people on different aspects of farming and clearing doubts. “We have our specialists who attend the calls,” added Shinoj Subramannian.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/kvk-to-supply-chicks-at-the-doorstep-of-kochi-homes/articleshow/75063489.cms||---
April 10, 2020||Pune||Pune police ask societies’ heads to lock terrace door||PUNE: The city police have served notices to chairpersons/presidents of housing societies, asking them to lock the doors leading to the terraces of their buildings. The objective is to prevent residents from going to the terraces for morning/evening walks or indulging in group activities in order to maintain social distancing norms. Senior police inspector Nandkishor Shelke of Sinhagad road police station told TOI, "We have served notices to all housing societies in the last three days, asking their chairmen/presidents to lock the terrace doors of the residential buildings." Shelke said that the policemen did their best by making regular announcements and driving away citizens from terraces using drone cameras. "But after refraining for a few days, the residents started exercising on rooftops of buildings, while youngsters continued to gather in groups. This defeated the purpose of social distancing," he said. Inspector Ajay Waghmare of Yerawada police station said, "We too have served notices to housing societies after spotting people exercising in groups on terraces of buildings". " The responsibility of maintaining the community belongs to the office bearers of the society. Thus, if they neglect the well-being of the people in the society, police will file cases against them under section 188 (disobedience to order) of the IPC," he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/police-ask-societies-heads-to-lock-terrace-door/articleshow/75073767.cms||---
April 10, 2020||Dehradun||Man thrashed to death by neighbours in Roorkee||ROORKEE: A man was killed by his neighbour in a village near Roorkee because he allegedly thrashed the latter’s pet animal. The victim was identified as 48-year-old Ishwar Saini. Meanwhile, police said that the cause of death is still being ascertained and charges will be made after postmortem report arrives. According to reports, Saini, a resident of Sisouna village under Bhahwanpur block, had sown coriander in a space adjacent to his house. On Wednesday, around 7 pm, his neighbour’s cow calf grazed on the crop. Seeing the damage, Saini hit the animal with a wooden bar to shoo it away. Meanwhile, Surya Pandit and his brother Shubham, sons of his neighbour, caught Saini and started thrashing him. As Saini fell unconscious, the duo ran away. Saini was immediately brought to a private clinic in Bhagwanpur but was declared brought dead. "We have sent the body to Roorkee civil hospital for postmortem examination," SP (rural) Swapn Kishore Singh told TOI.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/man-thrashed-to-death-by-neighbours-in-roorkee/articleshow/75073042.cms||Tapan Susheel
April 10, 2020||Delhi||Azadpur wholesale market installs two sanitisation tunnels at its gates||NEW DELHI: To contain the spread of novel coronavirus and keep workers and officials disinfected, the Agricultural Produce Marketing Committee of Azadpur has decided to install two sanitisation tunnels at its gates. Officials said the installation was almost complete and the two tunnels would start functioning from Friday morning. Every person entering Azadpur Mandi — Asia’s largest wholesale market — will now have to go through the tunnel to get sanitised. Depending on the success of the sanitisation units, APMC may set up similar chambers at Ghazipur, Keshopur and Okhla wholesale vegetable and fruits markets that witness high-footfall daily. After AIIMS, this is the second instance of a sanitisation tunnel being set up in the capital. The unit at AIIMS is only for its staff members. A disinfection tunnel has also been installed at APMC market in Karnataka’s Hubli while Indian Railways has installed a similar facility at a few places, including Yamunanagar in Haryana and Bhusaval in Maharashtra. According to officials, sanitisation tunnel is a walkthrough disinfectant chamber designed to decontaminate people, one at a time. The one being used at Azadpur has been prepared by students of IIT-Delhi. “A person will have to be in the cabin for 25-30 seconds. We have installed a water tank of 1,000 litres. About 20 litres of sodium hypochlorite of 5% concentration will be added to 980 litres of water. The water in the tank can last for 24 hours,” an APMC official explained. A porta-cabin has been converted to form the tunnel with 10 sprinklers installed to spray the disinfectant. According to officials, about 10,000 people, including buyers and workers visit Azadpur Mandi, which is now open on alternate days.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/azadpur-wholesale-market-installs-two-sanitisation-tunnels-at-its-gates/articleshow/75074289.cms||Atul Mathur
April 10, 2020||Nagpur||Explore rapid antibody test, home isolation for Covid-19: Bombay HC to Centre||NAGPUR: In view of huge spike in coronavirus cases, the Nagpur bench of Bombay High Court on Thursday directed the Union ministry of health and social welfare to explore possibility of using the rapid antibody blood test for suspected cases for fast results. “It would be necessary for the ministry to consider whether this test could be conducted due to short time taken for result. The aspect of home isolation as an alternative to hospital treatment is also a relevant,” Justice Atul Chandurkar said adding that these measures would help reduce the pressure on hospitals at this crucial time. Referring to ICMR’s April 4 advisory on rapid antibody based blood test, amicus curiae Anup Gilda earlier prayed for directives to conduct it on suspects, as it gave results within 30 minutes and would lead to early detection and action. While granting time to respondents till April 20, the HC made it clear that the directives issued on March 23 would be carried out in the true spirit. “The state’s response to HC’s suggestions regarding funds generated by public trusts/charitable institutions and Wakfs, be placed on record. Similarly, the collector and municipal commissioner, may consider whether wearing of mask by the public while coming out in public places should be made mandatory,” Justice Chandurkar said. The directives came while hearing an intervention application by Dr Anup Marar through counsel Tushar Mandlekar highlighting importance of rapid antibody test to identify and screen the Covid-19 patients. It was in petition filed by CH Sharma and PIL by businessman Subhash Zanwar through counsel Ram Heda. According to Mandlekar, the testing facility, which is time consuming and costly is available only at two places in the city. He also highlighted the aspect of home isolation contending that it wouldn’t be necessary to admit all positive patients in hospital as home quarantine for 14 days is also recognized by the ICMR and it would prevent crowding of hospitals.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/explore-rapid-antibody-test-home-isolation-for-covid-19-hc-to-centre/articleshow/75073775.cms||Vaibhav Ganjapure
April 10, 2020||Nashik||Leading from front, so others feel safe||NASHIK: Arti Singh, Nashik rural superintendent of police (SP), is at the forefront of the fight against the coronavirus pandemic. Since the lockdown started, the police have been working tirelessly to keep everyone safe and inside their homes. Singh spends long hours in the field in her official capacity, but also manages a household and has two young daughters. The SP leads a team of 4,000 who depend upon her decisions to enforce police embargoes. She is in charge of a 500km area in the rural parts of the district where her team has erected check posts at the district borders. She visits all the check posts everyday to make sure the lockdown is running smoothly. After distributing face shields instead of face masks, to ensure the safety of her team, she has put up cubicles where her teammates can take a shower with sanitizers from time to time. “I have to anticipate happenings in my area, decide on a course of action and alert my team. Everyone is working hard and they have to put aside their family worries to look after the welfare of the citizens," she says. I have to assure my team that their boss is there working with them and also that they can depend on me,” she says. While the SP has to set an example for her team to follow, she has to also look after the wellbeing of her two daughters who eagerly wait for their mother to come home and spend time with them. “My elder daughter is 10 years old while the younger one is just four. As soon as I reach home in the evening, Mirayah, the younger one, just wants a hug from me. However, I enter from the back door and tell her I have to take a bath and disinfect myself first. She gets upset that I don't immediately scoop her up in my arms. It makes me emotional,” says Singh. Anayesha, the 10-year-old, is wise beyond her years, Singh says, and comforts the little one while their mother is out of the house. Singh’s husband is an IPS officer posted in Mumbai who is also on duty and cannot come home. Both children stay indoors and spend the time with their grandmother.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/leading-from-front-so-others-feel-safe/articleshow/75073066.cms||pragya jain
April 10, 2020||Vijayawada||Andhra Pradesh: Rs 5,000 cash relief for priests||VIJAYAWADA: The Andhra Pradesh government will give Rs 5,000 each to priests in temples in the state under the Dhoopa-Deepa-Naivedyam scheme. The decision was taken in the wake of closure of temples following the Covid-19 outbreak. The Andhra Pradesh Archaka Samakya has requested the government to assist priests whose incomes have been hit following restrictions on the entry of devotees into temples since March 20. Despite the restrictions, some priests have have continued performing rituals. After examining the issue, chief minister YS Jaganmohan Reddy directed the endowments department to pay Rs 5,000 per month to ‘archakas’ in temples. “We are committed to the welfare of all classes. Around 2,500 priests across the state will benefit from this move. We will pay this amount from the Archaka Welfare Fund,” endowments minister Vellampalli Srinivas said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/rs-5000-cash-relief-for-priests/articleshow/75073058.cms||---
April 10, 2020||Kolkata||West Bengal: Realtors want government sop to sell units at discount||KOLKATA: Developers on Thursday appealed to the state government to reduce circle rates of all areas in Kolkata and rest of the city, both for residential and commercial properties, so that they can sell the ready stock at lower prices. Global real estate services firm JLL has pegged the unsold inventory in Kolkata at 29,555 units worth Rs 15,300 crore. Circle rate is the base fixed by the government on which value of a property is determined while making transactions like sale or purchase. These rates vary according to property type and location, affecting the assessment value. While there is no problem if a transaction takes place over the circle rate, if the sale happens below the circle rate, both the buyer and seller are penalised. While the buyer has to pay stamp duty as per the circle rate value, he and the builder have to also pay income tax on the difference as it’s deemed as profit. “Liquidity is the biggest challenge now. When the lockdown is lifted, realty firms will face a huge problem in managing cash flow. Developers have to meet operating cost, including payment to workers and employees as well as interest on finances taken for projects. Simultaneously, rates have come down as buyer interest is at an all-time low. Considering the circumstances, developers have no option but to offer deep discounts to sell whatever property or even land they have to generate liquidity. But if they are unable to do so due to circle rates, which are not in sync with the market value, it will be extremely unfortunate,” said Sushil Mohta, president of the West Bengal chapter of Confederation of Real Estate Developers Association of India (Credai), the umbrella body of major builders in the state. In a letter to state finance minister Amit Mitra, Credai has requested for 20% reduction in circle rates for residential properties and 30% for commercial properties. It has also sought a 50% reduction in value of land. Nandu Belani, president of Kolkata chapter of Credai, said the government needed to not only revise the circle rates downward but also take a pragmatic approach and allow sales at even lower prices to enable developers clear stock and raise funds so that they aren’t driven to liquidation. Credai has also written to municipal affairs minister Firhad Hakim to provide 50% reduction in sanction fee and automatic extension of validity period of approvals from different departments, including sanction plans, for at least a year, without any charges for such extension/renewal.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/realtors-want-govt-sop-to-sell-units-at-discount/articleshow/75073781.cms||Subhro Niyogi
April 10, 2020||Vijayawada||Sigh of relief as +ve cases number dips in Krishna district||Vijayawada: Authorities of Krishna district administration and Vijayawada Municipal Corporation (VMC) heaved a sigh of relief as the number of new Covid-19 cases that tested positive came down in the last two days. The number of positive cases remained stable at 35. Higher authorities have focused on maintaining containment zones and red zones across the district. District collector A Mohammed Imtiaz said that all departments involved in Covid-19 duties are closely monitoring the situation. “We are happy that the number of cases has come down in the district, but we are still screening all suspect cases. Around six containment zones in the district are under high alert and the movement of the public has been restricted there. The reports of around 220 suspect patients are pending and we are ready to face any kind of situation,” Imtiaz said. The red zone at Machilipatnam has been given top priority after the death of the 55-year-old patient. Officials have requested the public who were in contact with the deceased to report at the government hospital and get quarantined. VMC authorities have started health camps across the city. Officials have requested the public to get free treatment at these camps. Commissioner Prasanna Venkatesh inspected the medical camp at Kabela area.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/sigh-of-relief-as-ve-cases-number-dips-in-krishna-district/articleshow/75073063.cms||Venu Lanka
April 10, 2020||Mysuru||CM informed of pressure exerted to reopen plant: Somanna||Mysuru: District minister V Somanna on Thursday said he has brought it to the notice of chief minister B S Yediyurappa that pressure is being exerted to resume operations at the Jubilant Generics plant at Nanjangud. He said even health minister B Sreeramulu discussed the issue with the chief minister. Speaking to reporters, Somanna said the government’s primary concern is to ensure that the Nanjangud cluster case is handled on priority. Asked about the Nanjangud MLA B Harshavardhan’s allegations that there is pressure from netas and industrialists to restart the Nanjangud plant, he said: “I don’t know who he is referring to, but we should know ground realities. There are over 1,100 people quarantined because of the cluster case. I have brought the MLA’s charge to the notice of the chief minister and chief secretary.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mysuru/cm-informed-of-pressure-exerted-to-reopen-plant-somanna/articleshow/75071981.cms||---
April 10, 2020||Mumbai||229 coronavirus cases in a day: Maharashtra sets national record||MUMBAI: Maharashtra on Thursday reported its—and by any state in India—biggest one-day spike in the number of Covid-19 cases (229) and deaths (25), taking the total cases in the state to 1,364. Of 25 deaths reported by the state government in its tally for the day, 10 from Pune had been reported by TOI in its Thursday edition. The previous high for cases was 150 on Tuesday and for deaths was 18 on Wednesday. The state’s death toll now is 97, just three short of the 100 mark. The case fatality rate as on Thursday was 7.1 % as against 6.2% on Wednesday. Mumbai still contributes most of the cases. It added 162 new ones, the highest reported for a day, taking its tally to 876. The city now has 64% of total cases in the state. Nine deaths were reported from Mumbai, taking the total deaths here to 54. Five deaths (excluding the 10 reported earlier) were from Pune, one from Malegaon and one from Khed. Of the nine deaths, 3 occurred on April 8, 3 on April 7 and one each on April 4, 6 and 9. At least three victims were in the age bracket of 35-45 years. A 101-year-old bedridden woman was perhaps the oldest to fall victim to the virus in the city and state. She was a known case of hypertension and had been admitted to Brahman Sabha Hospital in Girgaum on April 2. She died on April 6; the hospital has since been shut. The congested Dharavi area recorded four more cases and one death, taking the cases there to 17. The deceased was a 70-year-old woman who lived in Kalyanwadi, which is around a society where a doctor had tested positive last week. Civic authorities said the husband of the deceased had passed away recently and many persons had gathered at her home to offer condolences. She died in KEM hospital on Thursday. The BMC, however, didn’t include the death in its official toll. Among the other deceased were a 38-year-old woman who died at Bandra’s Bhabha Hospital. A known case of diabetes, she had come to the hospital with breathing difficulty. She died on April 7. A 35-year-old man died at Sion Hospital on April 4. He was a patient of epilepsy. There have been at least four deaths in the city where the person has had a history of epilepsy. Two of the dead were in their 60s. A 62-year-old died at Kasturba Hospital; he had a history of diabetes and hypertension and died after 8 days of treatment. A 60-year-old woman at Rajawadi died on the day of admission at Rajawadi hospital. She had a history of diabetes and hypertension. KEM dean Dr Hemant Deskhmukh said though increased cases are being reported, it cannot be said community transmission has begun. “Most cases are still first and second contacts of infected patients. We can still call it localized (transmission),” he added. Seven people tested positive from the Thane corporation limits, marking the highest single-day jump in Thane and taking the tally there to 33. A 68-year-old man from Nerul’s Sector 23 also tested positive, taking the count of cases from Navi Mumbai Municipal Corporation areas to 31. “The latest patient was in touch with a patient from Nerul, a 72-year-old man, who had succumbed five days ago. The two had gone together to a religious site in Nerul earlier. We are now observing swab results of family members of the 68-year-old,” said a civic health official. The four deaths in Pune took the total there to 24. Late evening, Pune authorities confirmed one more death, which was not part of the state tally. Two of the dead were women aged 65, one a 58-year-old woman and another a 44-year-old man. All three women had underlying conditions. Pune also registered 13 fresh cases, with the tally climbing to 204. Nashik district recorded its first death with a man succumbing at the Malegaon government hospital on Wednesday. The victim was admitted to hospital along with five others, all residents of Malegaon town, with respiratory problems; the swab reports of five returned positive. One death, reported from Khed, was mentioned by TOI earlier but recorded in the state tally on Thursday. A 59-year-old Aurangabad man tested positive on Thursday. He is the father of a 22-year-old man who tested positive a day earlier. The tally in Aurangabad city has touched 18. Of these, a 59-year-old woman has recovered, while a 58-year-old man died on Sunday. A 30-year-old man from Shahuwadi taluka in Kolhapur, who attended the Tablighi Jamaat event last month, tested positive on Thursday. The man had left Delhi on March 14 and reached Kolhapur two days later by train. He travelled by a private vehicle the next day to Malkapur before returning home on March 18. Out of 30,766 laboratory samples, 28,865 were negative and 1,364 had tested positive until Thursday. 125 patients have been discharged till date after recovery, 35,533 people are in home quarantine and 4,731 in institutional quarantine.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/229-cases-in-a-day-maha-sets-natl-record/articleshow/75074291.cms||---
April 10, 2020||Delhi||Cops looking for computers with details of visitors at Markaz event||NEW DELHI: Delhi Police is trying to track down at least three computers, including a laptop, belonging to the officials of Alami Markaz Banglewali Masjid. These computers may have the list of those who attended the event between March 11 and March 13, say the cops. When the Crime Branch team had earlier reached the Alami Markaz to seize them, they found that the computers were removed in a hurry. Only wires were left. Tablighi Jamaat chief Maulana Saad Kandhalvi and some other senior officials were authorised to use these computers, said police sources. Since then, raids have been conducted at the residences of the other members of the Alami Markaz in north-east Delhi, Old Delhi and Jamia Nagar to get the devices. “The Crime Branch sleuths had visited the Alami Markaz several times to find the computers, but in vain.” Police and the health department have so far not yet come across any document to estimate how many people might have attended the Tablighi Jamaat’s headquarters in March. Police sources say that the religious discussions would take place there in phases during which several people would arrive and go. As per a rough estimate, about 2,000 people would be present at the Alami Markaz at any given point of time till the lockdown was enforced. Police sources say that the technical data of mobile phones operating in the area for all the three days are being analysed to identify the people who had arrived and left as well. However, in several cases, addresses and mobile phone numbers are not linked.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/cops-looking-for-computers-with-details-of-visitors-at-markaz-event/articleshow/75074292.cms||---
April 10, 2020||Kochi||Cops gift carrom boards, TV sets to guest workers||Kochi: Guest labourers at Bhai Colony at Palakkattuthazham in Perumbavoor were gifted carrom boards and televisions on Wednesday, to get rid of boredom during the lockdown, by a police team headed by Rural SP K Karthick. The rural police in collaboration with ESAF Bank arranged as many as 10 carrom boards and five television sets, along with cable connection. “Even though the rest of us are in lockdown, we have our avenues to remain engaged. Moreover, we have our families with us. That is not the case for guest labourers. We see them sitting idle and thought they need to be given some facilities to keep themselves engaged," said SP Karthick. Police officials are hoping the guest labourers will have access to credible information through television. "If an emergency happens they should listen to the police and for that, they should have confidence in the police. We think through these gestures we are earning that,” said an official. Earlier, the rural police had arranged a 'Chapati' making machine at a Community Kitchen for guest labourers based on complaints that the owners did not provide them food during the lockdown.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/cops-gift-carrom-boards-tv-sets-to-guest-workers/articleshow/75063526.cms||---
April 10, 2020||Nashik||75 private doctors offer to help Covid-19 patients||NASHIK: As many as 75 private doctors, including 20 with post-graduate degree in medicine, have come forward to help Malegaon Municipal Corporation in treating Covid-19 patients. MMC commissioner Kishore Borde told TOI that he had a meeting with these private doctors. “We will use the services of these doctors at the 40-bed Covid-19 hospital that we established recently,” he said. Sources informed the cash-strapped MMC does not have adequate number of doctors to deal with the pandemic. “The MMC has around 50 doctors and there are another 50 government doctors based in Malegaon. We will need more doctors in case the number of Covid-19 patients starts increasing in Malegaon. These private doctors can work in turns to treat the infected patients,” an MMC official said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/75-pvt-docs-offer-to-help-covid-19-patients/articleshow/75073057.cms||---
April 10, 2020||Business||IT industry will bounce back strongly: Nasscom chairman||BENGALURU: Infosys COO U B Pravin Rao, the newly elected chairman of IT industry body Nasscom, takes over at a time when the industry is going through perhaps its biggest challenges – get 4 million people to work effectively from home, and a dramatic global slowdown. Excerpts from an exclusive interview with TOI: What are the immediate challenges to the IT industry from the Covid-19 fallout?The immediate challenge is around dealing with the Covid-19 situation. The Indian IT industry has reacted well and in a short time. We have enabled many people to work from home (WFH). Obviously, a small percentage of people are unable to work from home due to the nature of work, sensitivity of data, and those working in NOC (network operations centre). The government has declared IT and ITeS as essential services, enabling us to ship assets to employees’ homes, as well as allow a small percentage to commute and work. The feedback from clients is positive and they are appreciative of the speed at which we have acted and the resilience we have demonstrated. The priority is to stabilise business and then focus on relaxation of lockdown in a responsible and a phased manner. What percentage of the work has moved to employees’ homes? Is there a push-back from clients?I would say anywhere upwards of 85%, and the number varies from business to business. Before the situation, WFH would be anywhere between 10%-20%. Taking that to 80% is testimony to the fact we have been able to talk to clients and convince them about the best practices that the industry has always followed. Many MNCs have taken a 90-day no-layoff pledge. We haven’t seen Indian IT firms doing something like that.I remember reading in the media, Wipro and Tech Mahindra said they will honour the offers they have made. Each company will take a view of it. Many of the large firms anyway can withstand it for some time. During the 2008 slowdown, I don’t think this industry laid off people. Some IT/ITeS firms have enforced leave without pay, furloughs. We have seen smaller BPM firms laying off people at short notice. What’s Nasscom’s message to the 4 million people in IT/ITeS?Nasscom recognises some companies have the wherewithal to navigate uncertainties, while smaller businesses and smaller BPM firms are struggling and if the situation gets extended, they will be challenged. The best impact Nasscom can make is working with the government to provide for a stimulus package that will in turn minimise the impact. What’s the action plan once the lockdown is eased?We plan to do it in a phased manner. A very small percentage to start with and in the first fortnight and gradually increase in the next 3-4 weeks. We want to behave responsibly, maintain social distancing while commuting to office and at work. We are also doing scenario planning – how do you evacuate employees, if someone is affected. Do you think this is turning out to be worse than what it was during the 2008-09 recession?At this stage, we are busy dealing with the pandemic and ensuring business continuity. Employee safety is our priority. Nasscom will talk to various firms to get a perspective and that’s a few weeks away. We are part of the global economy and there is some data about overall GDP slowing down. Any impact on global growth will have an impact on the industry too. But in the long run, the model is very resilient. It will be an opportunity for the enterprises as well to leverage tech to create differentiation. Covid-19 is the tipping point to accelerate the shift to digital and workplace transformation. We will bounce back strongly.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/it-will-bounce-back-much-stronger-rao/articleshow/75073791.cms||Shilpa Phadnis
April 10, 2020||Vijayawada||Sub-collector takes motorists to task||Vijayawada: Vijayawada sub-collector Dhyana Chandra on Thursday stepped up to control the crowd on city roads during lockdown hours. On his way to a meeting, the sub-collector stopped his car at Indira Gandhi Municipal Stadium Junction on Thursday afternoon after noticing traffic congestion. He took a baton from the cops and started controlling the vehicles which were out on the roads despite there being a lockdown in place. He stopped a few vehicles and questioned why they were out on the roads. The police were surprised to see the sub-collector controlling traffic on the main road. The sub-collector explained the seriousness of present Covid-19 situation in the country and appealed to the people to not travel unless it was very important or an emergency. Sub-collector Dhyana Chandra asked the police to book cases against all those who were caught violating the lockdown norms.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/sub-collector-takes-motorists-to-task/articleshow/75073089.cms||---
April 10, 2020||Kolkata||West Bengal: High-risk doctors get hands-on Covid-19 training||KOLKATA: Medical officers from different state-run hospitals across the state have been trained to stay prepared for treating Covid-19 patients. Close to 500 such medical officers from 50 government hospitals have been trained on how to manage an infected patient efficiently in intensive care units and high dependency units. Fighting the pandemic, the state government has designated four hospitals in the city specifically for Covid-19 patients, apart from isolation and treatment facilities in more than 94 hospitals across the state. With the number of infected patients with co-morbid conditions likely to increase, the government has already ordered 300 ventilators and is on the way of procuring 300 more. “In such a situation, we need to ramp up preparedness and train medical officers working in critical care units across the state on proper operation of ventilators and better management of Covid-19 patients,” said one of the trainers. Ninety medical officers are being trained daily in two batches over the past few days in hospitals including SSKM Hospital, Desun Hospitals-Siliguri, Burdwan Medical College and Midnapore Medical College. More doctors will be trained in the coming days. “Intubation is a very tricky procedure and it should be left best to the ones who are trained. The rest can be trained on better monitoring and management of patients who are on ventilation,” said cardiac surgeon Kunal Sarkar. According to sources in the health department, those who attended the training, which ended on Thursday, are doctors who are already working in critical care units and high dependency units. In addition to training them on proper operation of ventilators, they are also being trained on putting on PPE appropriately, social distancing norms and other hygiene guidelines so that they do no end up getting infected. “Doctors are especially those dealing with critical care patients at the risk of getting infected. And a doctor getting infected has a serious implication as he/she might end up infecting other patients. Therefore, we need to know how to carry out procedures without getting infected while treating a patient in the CCU,” said another trainer. Initiated by the state health department as a part of public-private partnership of SATS Academy Pvt Ltd, specialists in critical care medicine, including Ashutosh Ghosh, head of critical care at SSKM Hospital, and Arindam Kar, director, Institute of Critical Care Medicine, CMRI, had formulated the programme. The government has roped in 35 senior critical care specialists to impart the training. “Our government is setting up treatment centres and standalone hospitals for treating Covid-19 patients. Therefore, we need to keep our manpower ready, including those who will be needed to treat critical patients,” said Mahua Banerjee, commissioner of the health & family welfare department.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/high-risk-doctors-get-hands-on-covid-training/articleshow/75073783.cms||Sumati Yengkhom
April 10, 2020||Vijayawada||Army soldier from Prakasam dist goes missing in Sikkim||Vijayawada: A 25-year-old army soldier from Prakasam district has gone missing at Lachen in Sikkim on April 6. The incident came to light on Thursday after the brother of the missing soldier approached the state government seeking help. Shiva Kumar, brother of soldier S Sanjeev Reddy, tweeted to AP public affairs adviser Sajjala Rama Krishna Reddy seeking his intervention. According to Shiva Kumar, Sanjeev could not be reached since April 6. Later, the family members reached out to army officials in Lachen. They informed the family that Sanjeev had ‘slipped in the snow’ and had been untraceable since then. Meanwhile, Rama Krishna responded to the tweet and directed his office personnel to look into the matter. Reddy hails from Krishnam Shettipalli village of Giddalur mandal in Prakasam district. He was inducted into the Madras Regiment and is a third engineer. Sources said that he was deputed to work for the Indo-Tibetan Border Force in Sikkim. Officials informed Shiva Kumar that they are trying to find out his current whereabouts.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/army-soldier-from-prakasam-dist-goes-missing-in-sikkim/articleshow/75073072.cms||---
April 10, 2020||Thiruvananthapuram||Banks to function from 10am to 2pm||T’puram: The State-level Bankers Committee has directed banks to continue with the existing business hours (10am to 2pm) from Monday ‘till further instructions or lifting of lockdown in the state’.  “Now, SLBC has reviewed the situation, and in consultation with the Kerala government, the RBI and all other stakeholders, decided to continue with the current bank business hours,” informed SLBC convener and Canara Bank general manager A Ajit Krishnan on Thursday. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/thiruvananthapuram/banks-to-function-from-10am-to-2pm/articleshow/75072035.cms||---
April 10, 2020||Kochi||Cartoons to combat corona gloom||Kochi: Living in the times of Covid-19 crisis has made life stressful for many but hundreds of memes, cartoons and jokes shared by people globally have made people cope up with the gloomy atmosphere. To help people combat anxiety due to the pandemic outbreak, Kerala Cartoon Academy has come out with a virtual exhibition of cartoons on their Facebook page. Currently, there are more than 900 cartoons in the compilation and the academy intends to add 100 cartoons every day. In one of these cartoons by academy secretary Anoop Radhakrishnan, we can see two hens, one of them masked, clanging their fodder bowls with ladles and singing Go, bird flu...bird flu, go. The cartoon is a satirical commentary on video of a Union minister who was seen chanting Go, Corona, Go along with a group of officials. There are works of cartoonists both known and unknown, based in India and abroad. There are also works that highlight issues like fake news, communalism and capture the humour in work-from-home as experienced by millennials. The cartoons using bare minimum of lines can help people become wise even as they help to address their lockdown boredom. Academy chairman K Unnikrishnan and Anoop said they organised the online exhibition during lockdown as cartoons have the potential to create awareness among people. As part of the ‘break the chain’ campaign, Kerala Cartoon Academy had earlier tied up with the Ernakulam district administration and the health department to bring out several cartoons that advocate best practices to combat Covid-19.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/cartoons-to-combat-corona-gloom/articleshow/75063553.cms||---
April 10, 2020||Lucknow||Ensure 100% sealing of hotspots: UP CM Yogi Adityanath to officials||LUCKNOW: Chief minister Yogi Adityanath on Thursday warned district officials that if 100% sealing of corona hotspots was not carried out, the situation would become dangerous not just for them but also for the people of the districts concerned. In a video-conferencing with health officials and police officers of all districts on Thursday evening, the CM said that he had surveyed the 15 districts in which 113 hotspots had been identified and sealed a day earlier, and found that some districts had been very ‘careless’ about implementing the lockdown. “I am warning these districts to stop being careless. These areas have to be sealed 100%. Look at the way corona is spreading. On March 3, when the first case was reported, there was a single district affected. A month later, 40 districts have been affected,” the CM said, adding that in many districts no sample collection or testing was taking place. “It has become compulsory to set up collection centres in each district. In the 35 districts where no cases have been reported so far, officials must determine who has come from abroad or other states in the past month. Those in home quarantine should be tested and if positive, should be sent into institutional quarantine,” he said. Giving directions that there were to be no public celebrations on the occasion of Shab-e-Baraat, the CM said that even if a district had a single case, the area from where the case had been reported was to be sealed completely and only a medical team, sanitation workers and those providing doorstep delivery should be permitted into the area. Additional chief secretary (home) Awanish Awasthi said that the CM had also directed the administration of the 15 districts where six or more cases have been reported to continuously review their areas and collect information on the number of houses in each of the hotspots, the number of people residing there, the number of people under quarantine, number of infected people etc. “The areas need to be sanitized each day. Officials should also ensure that movement of all residents to and from the hotspots is prohibited by putting up barricading and installing gates. Special care should be taken to ensure door step delivery while the availability of milk, ration and fruits and vegetables should be reviewed continuously in these areas. Apart from this, it has also been directed to deploy police response vehicles in these areas,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/ensure-100-sealing-of-hotspots-yogi-to-officials/articleshow/75074296.cms||Neha Lalchandani
April 10, 2020||Kolkata||KMC doctors to attend to patients over phone||KOLKATA: Following the scare in the KMC health department after civic body’s chief health advisor TK Mukherjee came in contact with a Covid-19 positive patient and had to be quarantined at home, KMC has asked doctors to offer consulation over phone and discourage direct contact with patients. At NRS, too, 79 doctors, nurses and staff had to be quarantined after they came in contact with a Covid-19 patient. Much to the relief of authorities, they have all tested negative. But top administrative officials of two state hosptials, one in Howrah and the other in north Bengal, have tested positive. “Please go back home and call the doctor on this number. He will provide medical advice over phone, and only if needed, call the patient over for a check-up at the clinic,” a civic health official told patients arriving at a KMC clinic in Bhowanipore on Thursday. In places that have been identified as Covid-19 hotspots, doctors have been asked to avoid any physical contact with patients. The extreme caution is to avoid quarantine of doctors that may lead to the shutdown of clinics. Since the dengue season is round the corner, the civic brass is determined to keep the clinics functional. The KMC IT team is already working on an app to list the contact numbers of medical officers at all 144 civic health clinics. The doctors have also been told to record names and addresses of patients who have sore throat, cough, fever and breathlessness — all symptoms of a corona infection, and refer them to Covid-19 hospitals for detailed investigation and testing. Simultaneously, the KMC health department will send health workers to find whether others in the neighbourhood are also suffering from the same symptoms and continue a vigil if the referred patient tests positive. This is in addition to sanitizing the entire area. “Right now, our ward-wise health clinics have become vulnerable as all sorts of patients are flocking in for check-up. Our doctors are at risk and that is something we cannot afford at a time like this. We have asked them to physically attend to only those patients who need immediate care and do not have any Covid-19 symptoms. For others, advice will be given over the phone,” said a KMC health department official.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/kmc-doctors-to-attend-to-patients-over-phone/articleshow/75073799.cms||Saikat Ray
April 10, 2020||Nashik||21 medicos being tested for Covid-19 in Nashik||NASHIK: Throat swab samples of 21 medical staff, including three doctors, from a government hospital in Malegaon have been sent for Covid-19 testing after five of the six patients admitted there tested positive for coronavirus on Wednesday night. One of the five positive patients at the government hospital already succumbed to the disease on Wednesday afternoon. “The moment we received the test reports of the patients, we collected the throat swab samples of 18 nurses and three doctors at the hospital and sent them for testing,” district collector Suraj Mandhare said. The process of contact tracing has begun to figure out how many people came in contact with the positive patients. Their family members are also being located so that they too can be tested. Besides, a private medical practitioner has also been asked to be quarantined after the deceased person was reportedly been treated by him as well. “The private medical practitioner had treated the patient in his clinic and since the patient turned out to be positive, the doctor has been asked to quarantine himself. His clinic has been closed and sanitized. Patients taking treatment from him will also be tracked down and tested for Covid-19,” a district administration official said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/21-medicos-being-tested-for-covid-19/articleshow/75073091.cms||Abhilash Botekar
April 10, 2020||Mysuru||Chaatwallahs, auto drivers eke out a living selling veggies||Mysuru: The coronavirus has compelled many in the unorganised sector to adopt professions which can see them through the lockdown. Chaat sellers, hawkers and autorickshaw drivers have now turned into vendors of vegetables and fruits in Mysuru. The switch could be less lucrative, but it is the sole option for them when only the sale of essential commodities is allowed during the Covid-19 lockdown. Umesh, a chaat seller since a decade at Siddaratha Layout, started feeling the pinch only a few days into the lockdown. He then decided to sell vegetables to continue making a living. Since then, he has been using his cart to sell vegetables on the streets. Umesh says selling vegetables is not more profitable than the chaat business. Goods autorickshaw driver Salman started selling vegetables a week ago. He now rushes to the wholesaler every morning to purchase vegetables and sell them till 10am. “Something is better than nothing,” he says. However, it has been topsy-turvy for some street vegetable vendors who been in the business for a longer time. Javarappa and his wife Channamma would earlier cover several localities on the bicycle to sell vegetables. But now their movement is restricted, affecting the daily income of this elderly couple whose sons have abandoned them.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mysuru/chaatwallahs-auto-drivers-eke-out-a-living-selling-veggies/articleshow/75073107.cms||Lawrence Milton
April 10, 2020||Surat||Diamond artisan arrested for rape of four-year-old girl||Surat: Katargam police arrested a 26-year-old diamond artisan on Thursday for allegedly raping, sexually assaulting and sodomizing a four-year-old girl a day ago in a desolate area of the city. The girl had serious injuries on her private parts and suffered a fracture on right leg and is undergoing treatment in a hospital. Cops produced accused Nitesh Rajput, a native of Bihar, in a local court which remanded him in police custody for six days until April 15. The accused has admitted to police having been caught for raping a six-year-old girl in Kolkata in 2017. He informed police that he came out of jail after eight months on bail. Police requested the court for his custody to find out if he was involved in similar crimes in the city. The accused, a resident of Kapodra, had consumed liquor in the slums alongside railway tracks in Varachha and Katargam and is suspected to have committed the crime thereafter, police sources said. On Wednesday afternoon, the minor girl had gone to answer nature's call with her elder sister in an open ground when the accused abducted her. He raped and sodomized her at a nearby location. Some passersby heard the cries of the minor girl and came to check when the accused escaped after throwing her on a pile of stones."Police nabbed the accused from one of the checkpoints. We had details of his looks from the CCTV footages based on which he was stopped for questioning," said a police officer at Katargam police station.Amid the ongoing lockdown, a four-year-old girl was allegedly abducted and raped by a 19-year-old youth Atul alias Karan alias Bhuriyo Jadav on March 24 in Limbayat area of the city. He was arrested by police on April 5.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/diamond-artisan-arrested-for-rape-of-four-year-old-girl/articleshow/75071754.cms||---
April 10, 2020||Nashik||Five areas of textile town sealed: Maharashtra agriculture minister||NASHIK: State agriculture minister and MLA from Malegaon East Dada Bhuse said on Thursday that five residential areas where Covid-19 patients live in Malegaon have been sealed. People from these areas have been warned against stepping out of their houses. “In one go, we have got five Covid-19 patients and that does not bode well as Malegaon is densely populated with people living in very small areas. People have to do what they can to ensure safety through social distancing and preventive measures while the administration does its duties,” Bhuse said. The areas around the residence of the Covid-19 positive patients have been sealed. Nobody can come or go in apart from the authorised personnel. “The stricter enforcement of laws on the movement of people will come into effect now. 10 teams of 400 people will be surveying the area. They will be screening and scanning people to check if they have Covid-19 symptoms and then send to hospital,” Bhuse said. Since the containment area is about 3km around the epicentre and the five patients are from different parts of the town, about 80 % of the area now falls under the containment zone. The population of Malegaon is estimated to be around six lakh. Considering the containment zones, more than 3.5 lakh people are now expected to be in a complete lockdown. About the treatment facilities, the minister said, “We have three ventilators here and we will arrange for another ten ventilators soon. Besides the ones from the private sector would also be sourced,” Bhuse said. Meanwhile, sources from district administration said that the people lacked responsibility during the lockdown. “Despite the lockdown orders, people move around in groups in lanes and bylanes. Now with stricter measures, it has to be seen how the people react to it,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/five-areas-of-textile-town-sealed-state-agri-minister/articleshow/75073139.cms||Abhilash Botekar
April 10, 2020||Nagpur||Advocate-turned-businessman booked for hate mongering in Mankapur||NAGPUR: Ashok Jetha, an advocate-turned-businessman, was booked by Mankapur police on Wednesday, along with four others, for sharing and liking a hate comment blaming a particular community for the Covid-19 outbreak. It’s learnt that the complainant, advocate Mir Nagman Ali, along with others, had approached Mankapur police with the complaint against Jetha — who also happens to be his friend — leading to the registration of the offence. Jetha had shared and liked an ostensibly objectionable post on his timeline, from a social media group titled ‘I am with India force’. The four others, namely Ananda Aran (Chhattisgarh), Raju Tuwani (Chhattisgarh), Roshan Kalmegh (Mumbai) and Likhit Kumar (Nagpur), who had liked the post shared by Jetha, have been also booked. Senior PI Ganesh Thakre of Mankapur police station said expert opinion would be sought in the case from the city police cyber cell to technically strengthening it. Ali demanded the immediate arrest of Jetha in the case as a deterrent measure. Following a directive from the state police top brass, city cops have so far registered five offences related to fake messages, clips and posts. Additional police commissioner (crime) Nilesh Bharne said that the state director general of police had instructed to take non-cognizable offences seriously and initiate investigations after procuring court permission. “We are summoning and questioning people found involved in mischief on social media,” he said. City police are also alerting social media platforms regarding the hate-mongering messages and posts, which are perilous to law and order. The cyber cell is requesting the social media platforms to block or delete messages hurting religious sentiments. Maharashtra cyber security cell on Wednesday informed that more than 132 cases were registered from the time of lockdown till date, including nine related to hate speech.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/advocate-turned-bizman-booked-for-hate-mongering/articleshow/75073807.cms||Soumitra Bose
April 10, 2020||Visakhapatnam||Now, Yamaraj ensures VZM practises social distancing||Visakhapatnam: District authorities in Vizianagaram have turned to ‘divine’ intervention in implementing the lockdown. Yamaraj, god of death, is now the mascot of the district administration in ensuring that people maintain social distancing and do not venture out. The idea was mooted by Vizianagaram rural police, to spread awareness on the dangers posed by Covid-19 and put the fear of death in those violating lockdown orders. Police in Parvathipuram division dressed up two personnel as Lord Yama, with his mace shaped as a coronavirus. Officer on special duty, Parvathipuram, J Ram Mohan Rao said, “This measure was taken when we noticed a lot of people throwing caution to the wind and venturing out on the streets despite our pleas and appeals to stay at home.” The Vizianagaram district administration has taken up a multi-pronged strategy to tackle the spread of the virus, according to the district collector. In urban areas, measures to prevent crowds and ensure social distancing are in place while raising awareness levels is being given importance in rural areas. District collector M Hari Jawahar Lal said, “In rural areas, we focused on raising awareness and it has worked quite well. In urban areas, where there is a lot of crowding, the priority was to ensure absolute social distancing and ensuring queue discipline.” The district collector added that 3,500 isolation centres have been established in all mandals in Vizianagaram to ensure that each mandal has a full-fledged functioning isolation centre. On providing relief to the homeless and those stranded in the district, the collector said, “More than 4,000 homeless people and those stuck in the district are being provided food and shelter by the authorities through the relief centres which are 35 in number across the district. More than 17 NGOs are also helping the government to ensure everyone gets relief.” A total of 172 people have been tested so far in the district, of which 66 have tested negative, while the results of the remaining samples are awaited.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/visakhapatnam/now-yamaraj-ensures-vzm-practises-social-distancing/articleshow/75073113.cms||Venkatesh Bayya
April 10, 2020||Coimbatore||Auto-gas bunk sealed||Namakkal: A private auto-gas bunk at Tiruchengode was sealed on Thursday after the employees of the bunk were found filling gas into domestic cylinders. Revenue divisional officer (RDO) P Maniraj issued the order to seal the bunk based on an inquiry by the revenue department. On Thursday morning, Maniraj found employees of the private auto-gas bunk filling auto-gas into domestic cylinders. “The auto-gas should not be used for domestic purposes,” the RDO said. During inquiry, the bunk employees admitted that they were doing this illegal act since the lockdown came into force.“The bunk should not function until further orders,” the RDO said. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/auto-gas-bunk-sealed/articleshow/75073813.cms||---
April 10, 2020||Coimbatore||Locked in, more entities now join philanthropy||Coimbatore: More educational institutions and private entities are pitching in with contributions for Covid-19 relief in Coimbatore. Chairman of Sri Shakthi Institute of Engineering and Technology S Thangavelu handed over 400 PPE Kits to Coimbatore district collector K Rajamani on Thursday for health workers on the frontline of battle against Covid-19. A statement from the college said the kits made of non-woven material were of surgical quality meeting health ministry’s standards. CMS Group of Colleges, Coimbatore, have been preparing food in their hostel kitchen and serving for 500 to 700 needy people every day. The college has coordinated with an NGO for distribution of the food. College authorities said the food distribution will continue till the lockdown is lifted. SNR Sons Charitable Trust, Sri Ramakrishna Hospital, Sri Ramakrishna Educational Institutions in Coimbatore are distributing 1,000 food packets daily to guest workers, daily wage labourers, street vendors, patients and attendees of the government hospital, ambulance drivers and police personnel.The team distributed it on several areas like Avarampalayam, RTO office road, Avinashi Road, Marakadai, Town Hall, Trichy Road, in front of Coimbatore Medical college hospital and Railway station.The district unit of BJP meanwhile started a Modi Kitchen at Hotel Kantha in Singanallur on Thursday. BJP district president Nandakumar said the party has been distributing free food in 27 places in Coimbatore.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/locked-in-more-entities-now-join-philanthropy/articleshow/75073805.cms||---
April 10, 2020||Pune||Now, lockdown in five jails in Pune, Mumbai & Thane||PUNE: The state prisons department enforced a lockdown from Tuesday evening in Yerawada central jail in Pune, besides, the Arthur Road and Byculla jails in Mumbai, and the Thane and Kalyan jails in Thane district considering the rising number of Covid-19 cases in these districts. Additional director-general of police (prisons) Sunil Ramanand told TOI, “No prisoner has so far tested positive for Covid-19, but the lockdown enforced is a preventive measure. No one will be allowed to move in and out of these jails while the prison superintendents and their staffers will stay inside and will be allowed to go out only for emergency situation.” He said, “The jails in Aurangabad and Nashik have also been kept on watch because several cases of coronavirus have been reported from the two cities. The other state jails will function as usual. Undertrial prisoners will be released on interim bail as per orders received from the courts.” Ramanand said, “We got the lockdown idea from the measures implemented by the Pune Municipal Corporation. Pune, Mumbai, Thane and Kalyan are badly affected by Covid-19 infection and we decided to enforce the lockdown to ensure that the virus does not spread in the jails.” He said, “We have closed the main gates of the prisons. If the jails are locked, no one will be allowed entry inside. Ingress and exit should be controlled. We want minimum employees to work. For instance, in Yerawada jail, 60 people will work in shifts. The administration work will continue as usual.” Ramanand said, “Maintaining social distancing is a huge challenge considering that the jails are crowded by 200% or more of their capacities. We are restraining movements and the lockdown will continue till further orders. We have made arrangements of food and essential supplies of stocks of three months in the jails.” The prisons department is awaiting notification from the disaster management department empowering jail superintendents to release convicts on emergency parole.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/now-lockdown-in-five-jails-in-pune-mumbai-thane/articleshow/75073810.cms||Asseem Shaikh
April 10, 2020||Nagpur||On Day I, nine booked for not wearing mask in public||NAGPUR: MIDC police on Thursday booked nine persons for violating the compulsory use of mask order, issued by the municipal commissioner Tukaram Mundhe a day earlier. State home minister Anil Deshmukh also reiterated the decision on Thursday making it compulsory for citizens to wear masks while venturing out of their homes, especially in cities affected by the coronavirus outbreak, including Nagpur. Sending a stern message to the citizens taking the stay-at-home orders lightly, two units of the city police — MIDC and Hingna — fast tracked cases against violators of the Section 144 and secured conviction in 59 cases in the last two days from the court of judicial magistrate first class (JMFC) NK Meshram. While MIDC police secured 22 convictions on Thursday, their Hingna counterparts ensured 12 violators were convicted for disobeying the prohibitory orders. Earlier, 12 persons were convicted under MIDC police jurisdiction on Wednesday, while 13 were found guilty under Hingna police area. The police had requested the court to fast track the trials in the lockdown violation cases in the national interest. “We had filed the charge sheets as quickly as possible and convinced the court to conduct the trials immediately as enforcing the lockdown was in the interest of the nation as the violators were endangering lives of others,” said senior inspector Hemant Kharabe of MIDC police station, who had submitted the charge sheets under the guidance of Zonal DCP Vivek Masaal, joint CP RK Kadam and CP BK Upadhayay. “The court opted to slap fine as punishment, reasonable enough for the violators to pay instead of going to jail by defaulting on it. People felt the pinch while shelling out the fine amounts which were between Rs200 and Rs700,’ said Kharabe. City police opted to go slow in taking action against the violators for not wearing mask even though state home minister had also tweeted the decision of making it mandatory for citizens to use the protective gear to cover their face apart from collector Ravindra Thakare issuing a notification to the same effect on Thursday. “Wearing a mask is compulsory now,” said home minister Deshmukh, who is in Mumbai. He also extolled the city police’s feat of securing conviction in 59 cases. “I will seek reports on the convictions,” he said. City police have also registered offences against 350 persons, including 131 for violating the orders under Section 144, to enforce the national lockdown. The traffic police, under DCP Vikram Sali, have also seized 75 vehicles. Flying squads of the police, aided by other government agencies, also conducted raids at two medical shops at Mahadula after receiving reports about selling overpriced sanitizers. Route march by Lakadganj police, under senior inspector Narendra Hiware, also received adulations from the citizens at Wardhaman Nagar where flower petals were showered on the men in khaki.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/on-day-i-9-booked-for-not-wearing-mask-in-public/articleshow/75073827.cms||Soumitra Bose
April 10, 2020||Kochi||Healthcare Co offers app to docs for remote patient care||Kochi: PracticeSuite, Inc., a US-based healthcare cloud technology company with offices in various cities in the country, including two in Kochi, has offered its PS Telemed App to all doctors in India at no cost to remote patient care. This is in addition to its recent similar global rollout to help doctors worldwide to cope up with Covid-19 situation. A doctor or a healthcare professional can utilize this tool to consult patients under quarantine by simply using a computer or a smartphone. This will ensure safety of medical professionals. Further, this technology will help doctors to continue to provide their ongoing non-urgent chronic and routine care to ensure continuity-of-care during the Covid-19 crisis. The platform allows providers to render care remotely to patients from the safety of their homes. Available as a free downloadable app, PS Telemed App is currently available in Android Playstore and Apple App Store; it can be instantly activated through a simple registration. “In the last few days, we have seen tremendous interest in our telemedicine solutions and services. PracticeSuite will be providing our technology platform at no charge to allow patients to continue to be seen in this complex and challenging healthcare environment,” states Trey Wilson, chief revenue officer of the company. “While the countrywide lockdown in India is necessary to prevent community spread, it is far more imperative to protect and safeguard the health of our medical professionals who are caring quarantined citizens,” said Vinod Nair, managing director of PracticeSuite, India.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/healthcare-co-offers-app-to-docs-for-remote-patient-care/articleshow/75063590.cms||---
April 10, 2020||Pune||More Indians across age groups have taken to writing a will||PUNE: Writing of a will, a financial planning activity that did not figure on people’s list as a must-do for long, is being actively pursued now, financial planners have said. More citizens across age groups have taken to writing the document which distribute their assets now than ever before. On Sunday, Mumbai-based WillJini, a web portal that helps people write their wills online, held its first standalone webinar on how to write one. WillJini started operations in 2014. Several people, many of them youths, participated in the engaging one-hour session. “We have done some seminars in the past for our partner firms and for wealth management professionals. This is the first time that we did it on behalf of our own portal as there was about three times more traction all through March,” Jatin Popat, founder of WillJini, said. According to a Pune-based wealth management expert, most people in India write their wills only in their old age. “Abroad, it is different. It is a part of the wealth planning across age groups,” he added. At the webinar, the audience sought to know how to distribute a joint property, what use is a will when there are nominations made for insurances and bank accounts and what happens when a beneficiary dies before the enforcement of a will. “I was thinking about it for a while. We have learnt it the hard way (with succession certificates etc) after my mother’s demise and are now taking to writing separate wills as a family,” 35-year-old Aditya Kumar, a Pune resident. said. His friends are also writing it after they discussed it during the video call last week, where much of the discussion and banter was around Covid-19 and the resultant issues. “If 100 people were writing a will earlier, the number has now jumped to 170-180,” said Vijay Pal Dalmia, founder of Delhi-based MakemyWill.in and practising advocate in the apex court of India. People also often confuse a nomination with which they having ring-fenced their loved ones in case of an eventuality. Advocates and financial planners say, in case of a dispute, a succession law over-rides the nomination in a court. “When it comes to the succession law, the property is usually divided equally among all the living heirs of the deceased and takes a lot longer,” Popat said,while explaining why a will is an important document in financial planning/ “The only time a person has to go to a court even if there is a will is when the agency/ institution insists on a probate,” he said. A probate is a court-order that a will is proper, final and not challenged. In India, a will can be written on a white paper and signed by two witnesses for it to be valid. “It is not important to register a will in India and it is a simple statement of a person’s desire to distribute assets accordingly. However, it is just an added layer of security to do so,” Popat said. Since it is written in different ways and is not registered, a nationwide picture on will writing is opaque. However, according to revenue officials, less than 2% of all documents registered are wills.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/more-indians-across-age-groups-have-taken-to-writing-a-will/articleshow/75073816.cms||Satyanarayan Iyer
April 10, 2020||Pune||Trucker held for attempt to ferry 82 workers to UP||PUNE: The Bhosari MIDC police intercepted a truck at Moshi toll plaza early on Wednesday and found 82 people — all workers at different areas at Kudalwadi in Chikhali — heading towards their hometown in Uttar Pradesh amid Covid-19 outbreak. The driver, Govind Sukhhari (24) of Kudalwadi, was arrested under IPC sections 188 and 269 and the relevant sections of the Epidemic Diseases Act and Disaster Management Act. Senior inspector Rajendra Kunte said the police team deployed at the Moshi toll plaza intercepted the truck around 2.45am on Wednesday. “The driver told the police that he was transporting some goods. When policemen checked the truck, they found people hiding behind the bags,” Kunte said. He said there were about 82 men in the back of the truck. “All of them are from UP. These men were workers in the Kudalwadi area and wanted to return home as currently no work was available because of the lockdown.” Kunte said the police had kept them in a shelter home and later allowed them to return to Kudalwadi. “Prima facie probe revealed that the truck owner had charged each worker Rs4,000. We booked the owner also and seized the truck,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/trucker-held-for-attempt-to-ferry-82-workers-to-up/articleshow/75073824.cms||Mihir Tanksale
April 10, 2020||Mumbai||Mortality rate in Maharashtra among India’s three highest||MUMBAI: Maharashtra and Mumbai’s high– and still spiking–case fatality rate (CFR) has become a cause for worry. The state’s CFR rose from 6.2% on Wednesday to 7.1% on Thursday—more than double that of India’s 2.9% and way above that of almost all other states. Only Gujarat and Punjab have higher CFRs. The worst-hit countries such as China had a CFR of 4% and Italy 11.7% at the peak of their outbreaks. CFR is the percentage of coronavirus deaths to number of patients who have tested positive. Till Thursday, of the 1,364 people who tested positive for Covid-19 in the state, 97 had succumbed to the viral disease. Of the 97, Mumbai accounted for 54, or 56% of the deaths. Deaths in Pune rose sharply between Wednesday and Thursday—as many as 17 lives were lost, taking the cumulative toll to 25. A sizeable percentage of the remaining deaths were reported from Mumbai’s satellite townships (11), including Thane and Navi Mumbai. Experts said the surge in deaths calls for a detailed study of whether it’s because of a stretched healthcare infrastructure or lack of clarity over which of the three categories of hospitals—roadly based on severity of each case—a patient should be sent to. Dr Subhash Salunkhe, chief technical officer to the state’s chief secretary, said a preliminary review showed patients being referred to the specialised hospitals at a late stage. “A cursory analysis done by us shows there were delays in patients reaching tertiary centres such as Sassoon in Pune or Kasturba in Mumbai. In several cases, patients reached the hospitals and died within hours. In a few, patients who were talking also died suddenly. We will be looking at all these cases in detail,” he said. “Almost 100% of the fatalities had co-morbidities. In order to understand the deaths, it’s important to understand the trajectory from the onset of symptoms to death,” he said. Another state official claimed more deaths were being attributed to Covid-19 because of a scale-up in testing. “We are testing all patients with ARDS (acute respiratory distress syndrome). How many states are doing that?” the official said. Only Gujarat and Punjab have higher CFRs than Maharashtra—of 8.9% and 7.9%—but experts say there could be a statistical bias as these states have reported less than one-fifth of the cases. The state’s numbers look worrying when compared with, for instance, Tamil Nadu, which has reported 738 cases, but managed to keep the CFR under 3%. Even Delhi for that matter has reported nine deaths out of 669 positive cases. Kerala, touted to have the best public infrastructure, has reported two deaths. The state, which was the first to get coronavirus cases in the country, has also limited the spread to 345 cases. In Mumbai, 10 out of the last 23 victims died within 24-36 hours of admission at KEM and Kasturba hospitals. In many cases, positive reports arrived after the patient had passed away. KEM dean Dr Hemant Deshmukh said they’d taken in several patients who arrived gasping for breath. “We give them ventilatory support or oxygen, but most come to us in a very critical condition,” he said, adding that the hospital—which comes under BMC and is not a dedicated Covid-19 facility—has been getting patients with no travel history testing positive for coronavirus. A private physician, however, told TOI there was little clarity on where a breathless patient with a lung disease can go. “Most private nursing homes are shut and the biggest hospitals are treating only Covid-19 suspects. Many patients continue to get referred to multiple hospitals if they don’t have travel history,” the doctor said. The family of a 70-year-old man from Vakola, with no travel history, was refused admission at Kasturba Hospital on April 2, despite showing symptoms of Covid-19, his family members has alleged. The senior citizen was sent to KEM Hospital where he passed away on Saturday. Infectious diseases expert Dr Om Srivastava said uniformity in treatment protocols and knowledge-sharing could help tackle the situation better.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/mortality-rate-in-state-among-indias-3-highest/articleshow/75074310.cms||---
April 10, 2020||Pune||Drunk duo arrested for abusing cops||PUNE: The Pimpri police on Wednesday arrested two men for riding a two-wheeler in a drunken state and without wearing masks. When the two were stopped near Shagun Chowk around 8pm, one of them pretended to be an officer from the Pimpri Chinchwad Municipal Corporation and abused the police. “The man said he would ensure action was taken against police for harassing them. We soon figured out that both of them were drunk,” an officer said. TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/drunk-duo-arrested-for-abusing-cops/articleshow/75073831.cms||---
April 10, 2020||Mysuru||Entry to forests in Malnad banned over KFD fears||Shivamogga/ Chikkamagaluru: Kyasanuru Forest Disease (or monkey fever) has claimed five lives in Shivamogga in the recent past. Three deaths have been officially confirmed, while the autopsy reports of two cases are awaited. Shivamogga K B Sivakumar told TOI that KFD has been reported from Sagar, Thirthahalli and Hosanagar taluks. “As we have contained the spread of the disease, the number of suspected cases has decreased compared to last year. We have recorded 139 KFD positive cases from 4,570 samples received. More than a hundred people have been cured this year. Unfortunately, three have died. Report on the cause of two deaths is awaited, and it is unlikely that they have died due to KFD,” he added. The district administration, health department, and KFD special officers have taken many preventive measures. “We have immunised people in three taluks, and assigned dedicated staff and ambulances to handle the situation. The most-vulnerable village is Aralagodu in Sagar, while the most-affected taluk is Thirthahalli. As per the current year data, the KFD virus active in 17 villages of Thirthahalli. A total of 2,373 samples have been collected and 111 have tested positive for KFD, and the latter had been hospitalised,” he said. Three taluks in the Western Ghats have dense forest cover. Amid lockdown, farmers started agriculture activities and villagers are collecting dry leaves for manure. The DC has restricted the entry of villagers into the forest. The DC said that 31 villages are under lockdown, and the collection of dry leaves has been banned in those three taluks. On Thursday, KFD special officer Kiran S K and health officers visited KFD-hit villages. Speaking to TOI, Kiran said vaccination is the only method to fight the disease. “We are facing new problems after the lockdown. Some youths, especially those from Bengaluru, unnecessarily roam in the forest,” he said. Meanwhile, a monkey was found dead at Chikkamagaluru city, creating tension. The district health officials have collected the samples from its carcass. Allaying KFD fears, district surveillance officer Dr Manjunath said the monkey has died for a different reason. “Chikkamagaluru city is safe from KFD. We have 10 positive cases in villages bordering Shivamogga and Chikkamagaluru this year. These patients have recovered and subsequently discharged,” the officer explained.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mysuru/entry-to-forests-in-malnad-banned-over-kfd-fears/articleshow/75066994.cms||---
April 10, 2020||Kolkata||Government ropes in 1,600 Ayush officials for Covid-19 screening||KOLKATA: Around 1,600 Ayush medical officials have been engaged in the government-run quarantine centres across the state to meet the requirement of increased workforce as the number of Covid-19 suspects is going up. The officials are Ayurveda, homoeopathy and Unani specialists. Around 80% of the officials were recruited from homeopathy while 15% from Ayurveda and 5% from Unani. Sources said that around 49 Ayush medical officials have been engaged at the quarantine centre of Chittaranjan National Cancer Institute at Rajarhat. However, the medical officials, roped in by the government as contractual employees, belong to the Rastriya Bal Swasthya Karyakram (RBSK) scheme under the national health mission (NHM), which monitors the health of school-goers, especially the children at various Anganwadi centres in districts. The officials are assisting doctors and nurses to screen Covid-19 suspects coming to the quarantine centres with symptoms like fever and cough. They are working in three shifts such as morning, afternoon and night. According to sources, the medical officials at some quarantine centres are being asked to conduct specialized jobs like collecting blood samples of throat swabs of Covid-19 suspects. “The Ayush medical officials are not meant for such specialized jobs that should be done by lab attendants having proper personal protective equipment. The officials should not be asked to conduct these jobs. If they come in direct contact with a Covid-19 positive patient, their life will be at risk,” said a medical practitioner. Sources said that the officials have been instructed to be on duty at the quarantine centres on a short notice, so they are not getting adequate training or guidelines to handle Covid-19 suspects. “Screening the suspects is a skilled job. It would have been helpful for them to get training before joining the quarantine centres,” said the practitioner.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/govt-ropes-in-1600-ayush-officials-for-ncov-screening/articleshow/75073835.cms||Suman Chakraborti
April 10, 2020||Coimbatore||Salem region records 35 new Covid-19 cases, 14 discharged||SALEM/ERODE: With 26 new cases of Covid-19 in a single day, Erode in Salem region has recorded 58 positive cases so far, the third highest in the state after Chennai and Coimbatore. Till Thursday evening, there were 113 positive cases in Salem region, up from 78 cases a day before. State health secretary Beela Rajesh said the number of covid-19 patients in Erode district shot up to 58 from 32 cases in a day. “On Thursday, 26 patients tested positive in Erode,” she said. In Namakkal, the number of positive cases increased to 41 from 33. In Salem district, one patient tested positive on Thursday, taking the total count to 14. In Namakkal, the district administration has shifted all Covid-19 patients to Karur government medical college hospital because of better facilities. “All 41 Covid-19 patients are being treated in Karur government medical college hospital... and are stable ,” said district collector K Megraj. In Salem, district collector S A Raman said four of the 14 positive cases were doing fine and could be discharged from the Salem government medical college and hospital once the test results are out. In Erode, 14 people with Covid-19 symptoms were discharged from the IRT government hospital on Thursday after successive test results came out negative. Erode collector C Kathiravan went to the hospital to give them a warm send-off. The IRT government hospital has been converted as the special covid-19 facility. “We have nearly 90 people with Covid-19 symptoms who are being treated here... 26 of them are confirmed cases, while results are yet to come for the others. Fourteen people have been discharged as their test results were negative,” Kathiravan said.  However, all 14 patients who were discharged on Thursday have to remain in home quarantine for another three weeks. “Doctors and health department officials will monitor them round the clock in the next three weeks,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/salem-region-records-35-new-cases-14-discharged/articleshow/75073830.cms||---
April 10, 2020||Nashik||SSC answer sheets to be evaluated post lockdown||Nashik: The Maharashtra State Board of Secondary and Higher Secondary Education (MSBSHSE), Nashik division has decided to begin the process of evaluating answer sheet of the SSC (Class X) students after May 3.Nitin Upasani, divisional secretary, Nashik, said the collection of answer sheets in Nashik division, which covers Nashik, Jalgaon, Dhule and Nandurbar districts, will begin after the lockdown is lifted.“Now that the remaining SSC examination of Geography, which was scheduled on March 23 has been cancelled, we want to gear up for the process of bringing out the result so that there is no delay from our side,” Upasani told TOI.The divisional board office will send a pick-up truck with two of their representatives to all the collection centers to collect the answer sheets. “The centers will not have to send the answer sheets to their headquarters. This will reduce crowding and help in maintaining social distancing,” added Upasani.The Nashik divisional board has also instructed all its examiners to collect the answer sheets from their respective centres and start the evaluation. Those who have already evaluated the answer sheets, should send them to the moderators.There are 150 moderators for each subject of SSC in Nashik division, who have about 10 examiners under each of them. “We have received a few answer sheets of Mathematics. We have also assigned the examiners to correct the answer sheets of students with learning disability,” added Upasani.Moreover, about 92% of the HSC moderation work and collection of answer sheets has been completed, he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/ssc-answer-sheets-to-be-evaluated-post-lockdown/articleshow/75189021.cms||pragya jain
April 10, 2020||Hubballi||mandya registers first case; dist tally rises to 5||Mandya/Hubballi: Following the reporting of the first Covid-19 case in the district headquarters, the total number of infected patients in Mandya has now risen to five. The latest addition to the list of infected patients is an employee of Jubilant Life Sciences, the pharmaceutical company based in Nanjangud, Mysuru – the epicentre of India’s first Covid-19 ‘cluster case’. The 35-year-old man, who works as a microbiologist at the firm, had been stamped as a primary contact by the authorities in Mysuru and sent home subsequently. He had been directed by the authorities to stay quarantined at home for the prescribed period, and had additionally been asked to report to the designated healthcare centre should he display any of the symptoms of Covid-19. Mandya deputy commissioner MV Venkatesh said that, the patient in question had been quarantined at home from March 26 to March 30, after which he had been shifted to a public healthcare facility. “The doctors discharged him when he did not display any symptoms,” the DC said. However, his throat swab samples were sent for examination before he was due to be discharged, in accordance with protocol. When the results confirmed that he was positive for the infection, he was shifted to an isolation ward at the Mandya Institute of Medical Sciences (MIMS). Prior to his isolation at home on March 26, the 35-year-old had been commuting to and from Mysuru by bus every day, authorities said. “The patient’s parents, sister and nephew have now been placed under quarantine at home,” said an official. After it was confirmed that the patient in question tested positive, the district administration wasted no time in declaring the locality of which he was a resident – Swarnasandra Colony – a buffer zone, besides stepping up precautionary measures across Mandya town. Police personnel have barred entry and exit to Swarnasandra Colony, and the residents are all being supplied essential commodities at their doorstep. Health teams have been constituted to screen all the residents of the locality. Mandya town tahsildar Nagesh, accompanied by many senior officers on Thursday visited Swarnasandra Colony and interacted with the residents, who were instructed to intimate the authorities on the district helpline number should anyone display any symptoms. Meanwhile, lockdown remained strictly enforced in Malavalli town. As was the case at Mandya town, ingress and egress to Malavalli have been sealed and workers at the health department workers are screening all the residents in the buffer zone. Patient had a cardiac arrest Two days after she tested positive for Covid-19, an 80-year-old woman from Rangawadi in Gadag succumbed in the wee hours of Thursday, becoming the first person to die of the infection in the district. The elderly woman had been admitted to the Gadag Institute of Medical Sciences (GIMS) on April 4, when she complained of having difficulty in breathing. Staff at GIMS who attended to her said that she did not respond to the treatment. Gadag deputy commissioner MG Hiremath said that the patient in question suffered a cardiac arrest around 1am on Thursday. “Last rites for her will be performed in accordance with the established procedure,” said Hiremath, adding that the throat swabs of 47 residents of Gadag district that had been sent to a virology laboratory, had tested negative for the infection. Following the first recorded death owing to Covid-19 in Gadag, the district administration is ramping up precautionary measures. Ranganwadi and its surrounding areas have been declared ‘containment zone’, which essentially means that none can enter or leave these spaces. Police presence in the areas has been increased, with the authorities assuring residents that all essential commodities would be delivered to their doorstep. The authorities suspect that the deceased contracted the infection at a family gathering held recently at SM Krishna Nagar in Gadag. Sources at GIMS said that they had managed to track all her primary contacts. “All of them are being kept in quarantine,” a source said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hubballi/mandya-registers-first-case-dist-tally-rises-to-5/articleshow/75072078.cms||---
April 10, 2020||India||Don’t panic, use PPE rationally: Centre to states||NEW DELHI: The government on Thursday urged states and healthcare professionals to consider rational use of personal protection equipment (PPE) even as it said availability of such products was rising and as many as 30 domestic manufacturers had begun production of items like masks. The government, which had recently said its target of making 10 lakh PPE available every week would be reached soon, added that orders for 1.7 crore PPE had been placed with domestic companies and supplies had started coming in. Highlighting the need to use these equipment optimally, Lav Agarwal, joint secretary in the health ministry, said, “There is no need for panic or fear regarding PPE. Everyone does not require all (components of) PPE. Our norms state that not only should PPE be made available, but they should be used rationally.” He added that PPE do not just mean coveralls but include other things like boots, gloves, N95 masks and headgear. The norms categorise use of PPE based on risk profile which has been classified into three categories — low risk, moderate risk and high risk. “Only high risk categories need all PPE,” Agarwal said. He said that even N95 masks should be used rationally as one mask could be used for eight hours. Besides, the Centre has also ordered 49,000 additional ventilators.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/dont-panic-use-ppe-rationally-centre-to-states/articleshow/75074643.cms||Sushmi Dey
April 10, 2020||Faridabad||Haryana declares containment, buffer zones||CHANDIGARH: To check the spread of Covid-19, the Haryana government on Thursday announced a number of containment and buffer zones in the state. According to an official, 36 villages of Nuh district have been declared as containment zones and 104 villages as buffer zones. In Palwal district, 9 villages have been ordered to seal their boundaries after these were marked containment zones and 27 adjacent villages buffer zones. In Faridabad district, 13 localities were declared as containment zones, while in Gurugram, several sectors and areas have been declared as containment and buffer zones. Some villages of Jhajjar, Kaithal and Panchkula districts too have also been designated thus.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/faridabad/haryana-declares-containment-buffer-zones/articleshow/75074658.cms||---
April 10, 2020||Chandigarh||Haryana declares containment, buffer zones||CHANDIGARH: To check the spread of Covid-19, the Haryana government on Thursday announced a number of containment and buffer zones in the state. According to an official, 36 villages of Nuh district have been declared as containment zones and 104 villages as buffer zones. In Palwal district, 9 villages have been ordered to seal their boundaries after these were marked containment zones and 27 adjacent villages buffer zones. In Faridabad district, 13 localities were declared as containment zones, while in Gurugram, several sectors and areas have been declared as containment and buffer zones. Some villages of Jhajjar, Kaithal and Panchkula districts too have also been designated thus.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/haryana-declares-containment-buffer-zones/articleshow/75074652.cms||---
April 10, 2020||Coimbatore||Salem: Man abandons 94-year-old dad, booked||SALEM: The Mallur police on Thursday registered a case against a retired central government employee under the Maintenance and Welfare of Parents and Senior Citizens Act, 2007, as he allegedly refused to take care of his 94-year-old father. He was booked based on a complaint lodged by K Munusamy, of Dasanaickenpatty on the outskirts of the city. He was living with his wife Andalammal, 85, who died ofage-related illness on March 31.  After completing the funeral and last rites, Munusamy’s elder son M Soundarajan, 65, who is living with his family in Chennai, stayed in his father’s house until April 5. When leaving for Chennai on April 5, Soundarajan locked the house and left his father abandoned on the street. “Initially, I thought he would come back to take me with him. But, he didn’t turn up,” Munusamy said. Neighbours gave Munusamy food and shelter for two days. Thereafter, they alerted Munusamy’s daughter Pushpavalli, 59, and his second son Ravi, 61, who came to Salem and informed Mallur police. Police broke open the lock of the house and handed over the house to Munusamy. Police said Munusamy had registered the house in Soundarajan’s name a few years ago. “Hence, Soundarajan locked the house and went to Chennai leaving his father abandoned on the road,” a police officer said. “We have asked Soundarajan to come to the police station for inquiry and will take action against him if found guilty,” the officer added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/man-leaves-father-94-on-streets/articleshow/75073836.cms||---
April 10, 2020||Trichy||121 kin, contacts of 36 TJ delegates show symptoms||Trichy: A total of 121 family members, relatives and friends of the 36 Tablighi Jamaat delegates to the Delhi meet who tested Covid-19 positive have shown symptoms of the viral disease and are awaiting test results. Meanwhile, central Tamil Nadu had two more cases from Tiruvarur and Nagappattinam on Thursday, taking the count to 99. A statement from Trichy collector S Sivarasu said the swabs of the family members and relatives of 36 infected persons were taken for testing. Sources in Mahatma Gandhi memorial government hospital (MGMGH) in Trichy said the close contacts of the family members were brought to the hospital by 108 ambulance and sent home after taking the samples. In all, 20 areas including nine places in the corporation limits, one in municipality, three areas in town panchayat and seven in rural areas have been cordoned off to prevent the movement of people in the areas of positive patients. The hospital has been providing treatment to 36 positive TJ delegates of Trichy and five more positive cases from Karur, Namakkal, Ariyalur and Perambalur. The results of six patients in MGMGH are awaited. A source said that the health condition of all the positive patients in the hospital was stable. There was some good news also from the district administration.  Among the 3,045 foreign and other state returnees being quarantined in their houses, 2,010 people crossed the 28 days of house quarantine without any symptoms. Going by the day’s bulletin from the health and family welfare department, Nagappattinam has a total of 12 positive cases including a 67-year-old male retired government doctor. A man from Tiruvarur has also tested positive taking the total number of cases in the district to 13. In Thanjavur, the results of 96 people including the close contacts of the positive patients and residents in the district were yet to be out. Government medical college hospital in Karur had two more patients with symptoms in isolation ward pending results. No patient with symptoms was in isolation in government medical college hospital in Pudukottai district.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/121-kin-contacts-of-36-tj-delegates-show-symptoms/articleshow/75073838.cms||---
April 10, 2020||Pune||Construction industry largely on its own to support on-site workers||PUNE: The construction industry is largely fending for its workers on it’s own since the March 25 lockdown while the labour cess is yet to be utilized. On their own or with help from Credai, developers have been supplying weekly essential packs to about 20,000 workers in Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC), Pimpri Chinchwad Municipal Corporation (PCMC) and Pune Metropolitan Region Development Authority (PMRDA) region. “It is a challenge. Making cooked food available is not an option as transportation and labour are a problem. So we are providing foodgrain that will last a week to 10 days,” said Suhas Merchant, president of Credai, Pune-Metro. Some large developers have decided to go solo to take care of the workers. “Developers like Kumar Properties, Satish Magar, Pride Group, among others, have said they will do it on their own so that association can focus on coordinating elsewhere,” Merchant said. Pune-based luxury developers Panchshil Realty and Kumar Properties are supporting the needs of about 2,500 workers each, while Gera Developments is supporting 900 workers across different sites. Atul Chordia, director of Panchshil Realty, said his foundation is delivering about 12,000 food packets every week. Some of the packets are also given to those not linked to construction activity. Meanwhile, the administration is yet to act on the developers’ request to allow work on site while maintaining social distance. “We feel that most of the workers are in very good spirits. We are also counselling them on the importance of getting back to work after the lockdown. Our concern though is that most of them are waiting to get back to their hometown sooner or later,” said Rohit Gera, managing director of Gera Developments. Manish Jain of Kumar Properties said that he expects at least half the labourers to leave once the state and district borders open since labourers are concerned about the well-being of their family members. “Construction activity should be allowed. We take complete responsibility for people at our sites, including their stay, food and medical concerns. They just don’t earn for themselves, but also support many in their families back home,” said Chordia, “If this continues for a month more, it will be a disaster. It is not only about food.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/construction-industry-largely-on-its-own-to-support-on-site-workers/articleshow/75073833.cms||Satyanarayan Iyer
April 10, 2020||Nagpur||Mitigation measures not finalized, yet MSRDC continues Samruddhi work||NAGPUR: The decision of standing committee of National Board for Wildlife (NBWL) headed by environment minister Prakash Javadekar clearing amended Samruddhi expressway project passing through eco-sensitive zones (ESZ) of three sanctuaries in the state, has revealed that mitigation measures are not yet finalised but project proponent MSRDC has already continued road work in ESZs and tiger corridors. Though the amended project got final clearance on April 7, it was already cleared on September 7, 2018, on the precondition that project proponent will plan appropriate mitigation structures to ensure safe movement of wild animals. TOI learnt the expert committee is yet to finalise the mitigation structures but the agency has started the works in ESZ, which is gross violation of Wildlife Protection Act (WPA), 1972, and apex court orders. RL Mopalwar, managing director of MSRDC, said, “We had got NBWL nod for road construction in ESZ of Karanja Sohol and Katepurna sanctuaries January on basis of which work orders were issued in February. There are no violations. We have already submitted requisite amount for wildlife habitat management in Melghat foundation before starting the works.” Mopalwar claimed NBWL had already cleared the road project passing through ESZ of Tansa sanctuary on September 7, 2018. The fresh clearance is for correct cost of mitigation measures which is Rs 54.57 crore. “We had made payment of this amount to the forest department,” he said. The state board for wildlife (SBWL) had approved the expressway project in its 13th meeting held in January 2018 and constituted a nine-member expert sub-committee to fulfill the precondition under the chairmanship of state’s chief wildlife warden. The agency appointed WII in June 2018 to conduct the wildlife study and prepare a detailed mitigation plan. The said plan was tabled before the expert committee on January 17, 2020. “Several concerns were raised by the forest officers on the proposed mitigation structures. Hence, we conducted site visits in February and March this year to address them and the report has been submitted to chief wildlife warden,” said one of the members. “If mitigation structures are not final, the agency cannot start works in ESZs of three sanctuaries and tiger corridors. But the agency has already carried out works in Package I (tiger corridor) and II (Katepurna & Karanja Sohol), especially on stretches passing through ESZs of two sanctuaries, which is a violation,” several NGOs claimed. “Same mistakes were done earlier on NH6 and the agency had to demolish constructed structures to follow experts measures,” they said. The Nagpur-Mumbai super expressway is being constructed in various packages under which 29.6km of the road passes through tiger corridor and ESZ of Katepurna Wildlife Sanctuary (Akola); 29.15km through ESZ of Karanja-Sohol Black Buck Sanctuary (Washim); and 44.975km through the ESZ of Tansa Wildlife Sanctuary (Thane). MSRDC has agreed to deposit 2% of the project cost for wildlife habitat improvement. The project envisages an investment of Rs 55,335.32 crore of which Rs 27,335.32 crore is equity and Rs 28,000 crore is debt. The 701km expressway will pass through 10 districts, 26 talukas and 392 villages.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/mitigation-measures-not-finalized-yet-msrdc-continues-samruddhi-work/articleshow/75073844.cms||Vijay Pinjarkar
April 10, 2020||Pune||Over 150 moved from sheds to shelter home in Pune||PUNE: The city police and Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) on Thursday shifted 150 people living in temporary sheds near the canal on Shankarsheth Road to a shelter home on Sinhagad Road. The joint action was initiated after local police noticed that the people were living near the main road in sheds and there was a possibility that the lockdown measure would be violated. The group has been shifted to a PMC-run school. Deputy municipal commissioner Madhav Jagtap said, “We received an alert from the police about the need to shift the people from Shankarsheth road to a shelter. After checking the status of space available at shelters, it was decided to shift the people to a PMC-run school in Dhayrai. Adequate space is available at the venue to accommodate the group. In case of space constraints, we will shift the rest of the people to another shelter.” Inspector Brahmanand Naikawadi from the Swargate police station said it was necessary to control the movement of people living in the sheds. There was no social distancing and the people were trying to venture out for no reason, he claimed. “We decided to shift them to a shelter home with the help of the civic administration. A meeting was held with the people before they were shifted so as to explain the necessity of the move,” Naikawadi said. A health activist Abhijit More said, “The civic administration should avoid placing a large number of people in shelters. It should be kept in mind that shelters are being set up for medical reasons.” Jagtap said PMC was strictly following social distancing norms at every shelter. The capacity of every shelter depends on the space available. The PMC was also making arrangements for food and water at the shelters, he said. More schools as shelters Civic chief Shekhar Gaikwad said the administration has decided to allot schools from every ward to set up temporary shelters.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/over-150-moved-from-sheds-to-shelter-home/articleshow/75073837.cms||Sarang Dastane
April 10, 2020||Delhi||Disability no bar: Their masks help 5,000 breathe easy||NEW DELHI: Disability of any kind cannot restrict anyone from showing a humanitarian gesture. And this has been proven by a group of 40 youths from Nangloi who have been catering to over 5,000 disabled people across the city by providing them masks. And their efforts have been securing them financially too. They are earning Rs 100-250 per day. The young people have been distributing the masks in nearby colonies themselves and sending it across the city with the help of people who have curfew passes. For each mask, they are paid 30 paise. “People in our JJ cluster keep moving around without caring about the lockdown, so it is important that they wear masks. We took the responsibility of distributing the masks as this place is the last on everyone priority, including the government,” said Kamlesh, one of the mask makers. His co-worker and friend, Sonu, who initiated the work, said that he lives with six family members in a single-room shanty. He’s afraid he might catch the infection and pass it on to them. “No one thinks about us, so we have to think about ourselves, our family and others like us,” he added. Pooja, a disabled girl who lives with five family members, said she is happy with whatever she has. But by making masks, she can earn something. “Being poor is a curse in itself. With the lockdown in place, there is nothing we can do to earn a living. People like us don’t have the luxury of savings. We spend whatever little we earn each day,” she added. In the past one week, since she started making the masks, Pooja has been able to earn something to feed her aged parents. “We take a piece of cloth, put strings around it and stitch it. We then pack the final product and distribute it,” she said. Nirmala, another mask-maker, said, “We understand the gravity of this infection, unlike the people around us. We are trying to educate them about social distancing. However, as the place we live in is congested, no one seems to care. No one is keeping a watch on the people too. How can the slum residents think about this when they are just driven by hunger?” “I live with my husband and a one-year-old baby. I worked at a factory, while my husband sold old clothes on the streets. Now, we are relying on the small amount I make stitching masks. I can’t walk after I contracted polio at a young age, but that has never been a deterrent for me,” added Nirmala.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/disability-no-bar-their-masks-help-5k-breathe-easy/articleshow/75074317.cms||Pankhuri Yadav
April 10, 2020||Trichy||Gale destroys banana crops in central dists||Trichy: Gale swept the central districts damaging hundreds of acres of banana plants in Trichy, Karur and Perambalur district late on Wednesday. Various breeds including nendiran, poovan, karpooravalli and sevvalai raised in over 1,000 acres have suffered damages. Farmers added the squally wind that usually comes in the Tamil month of cithirai (April-May) has come a little early this year. “Already the lockdown has devastated our income. Now, the adverse weather has wreaked havoc. We need suitable compensation from the state government,” said Ayilai Sivasuriyan, of Tamil Nadu Farmers’ Association (CPI) said. The cost of raising banana crops in an acre estimated by the farmers at Rs 2.25 lakh. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/gale-destroys-banana-crops-in-central-dists/articleshow/75073839.cms||---
April 10, 2020||Ajmer||Rajasthan: Ajmer mayor, 60 councillors stage protest over ration amid lockdown||AJMER: Councillors of the Ajmer Municipal Corporation, both from the Congress and BJP, as well as mayor Dharmendra Gehlot staged a protest against the district administration on Thursday, violating the lockdown rules and Section 144 of the CrPC. They alleged irregularities in the distribution of the ration for the needy. The protest took place in front of the collectorate and, later, the protesters were detained and taken to the Civil Lines police station. They were, however, released soon after counselling. They alleged that the rationing system had failed and claimed that the people were not getting food supplies meant for them. There was also anger against district collector Vishwa Mohan Sharma, who had recently issued orders preventing councillors from distributing food on their own. MLAs Vasudev Devnani and Anita Bhadel along with mayor Dharmendra Gehlot reached the spot and spoke with the protesters. Later, a meeting was held at AMC and it was decided to sanction Rs 1 lakh from the budget to all councillors from 60 wards. Earlier, the councillors gathered outside the collectorate and sat on the divider on the main road and shouted slogans against the collector. They alleged that the survey undertaken by BLOs was wrong and the figures incorrect. Deputy SP Priyanka Raghuvanshi came to the spot and warned that the protest was in violation of the lockdown. But councillors were adamant and refused to move until the collector came and held talks with them. At first, some women councillors were detained and taken to the Civil Lines police station. Extra force was called in and preparation was made to forcibly disperse the protesters. SP Kunwar Rashtradeep requested the councillors to disperse. When they didn’t comply, he warned them. But the protesters still did not budge and were taken to the police station and later released. Mayor Dharmendra Gehlot said that people who were not getting ration or supplies had accused the councillors of their respective ward and blamed the administration for failing to set up a supply mechanism. He said the AMC would provide food to the poor with funds from their own budget. Officials said that, as per the order of the district administration, councillors cannot supply government ration or food, including those from Akshaya Patra.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ajmer/ajmer-mayor-60-councillors-stage-protest-over-ration-amid-lockdown/articleshow/75079984.cms||---
April 10, 2020||Business||Titan revenue from jewellery business drops 5%||BENGALURU: Titan said revenue of its jewellery business fell 5% in the fourth quarter, hurt by weak business in March due to closure of malls and stores to prevent the spread of coronavirus. Revenue growth in the first two months was 16.5%, which was offset by the events in the last month. The jewellery business, under the brand Tanishq, has been the company’s growth engine, contributing almost 80% to the topline annually. “Consequent to the serious disruptions in operations in March, revenue growth for the quarter and consequently for the year has been impacted severely. The company is working out its strategy to manage this crisis with particular focus on ensuring adequate liquidity is available till normalcy returns. Cost will be another major focus area for the company in these trying times,” the company said in a statement. The eyewear business, a relatively small business, saw revenue tanking 20% last quarter. The watches business, which has seen some turnaround in the last few years after foraying into the smart category, grew 1%.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/titan-revenue-from-jewellery-biz-drops-5/articleshow/75073840.cms||---
April 10, 2020||Pune||Elderly man found dead in Pune, note found in flat states ‘corona fear’||PUNE: A 75-year-old former employee of a private automobile company was found hanging from the ceiling fan in his house on Law College Road on Monday evening. A note stating “corona fear” was found in the flat. Senior inspector Deepak Lagad of the Deccan Gymkhana police said, “Based on the note, we suspect it to be a case of suicide.” Police said the man stayed alone in the flat. His wife and son, an Indian Forest Services officer, live in Delhi. A group of residents of the area performed the last rites of the man as his son and wife were unable to travel to Pune because of the lockdown. 75-year-old found dead, note says ‘corona fear’Lagad said, “A woman cook used to regularly visit his house to prepare food, but she stopped coming after the lockdown was imposed. His neighbours would provide food to him or would invite him to have food with them.” He said, “On Monday evening, the police received a call from the neighbours stating that there was no response or movement in the elderly man’s flat when they called him to have food. A police team rushed to the spot and broke open the door. They found him hanging from the ceiling fan.” The police kept the incident away from media attention till news about the man’s death was posted on a few social media groups, drawing concern from citizens. In their online condolence messages, people expressed their keenness to serve senior citizens staying alone and stressed that the elderly must not panic. They also pledged availability for help, including provision of food, medicine and emotional support. For more than a decade now, the senior citizens’ cell has been working on maintaining contact and helping registered lonely elderly persons resolve their issues, be it emotional turmoil or requirement of medicine and help for payment of bills and services.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/elderly-man-found-dead-note-found-in-flat-states-corona-fear/articleshow/75073842.cms||---
April 10, 2020||Nashik||Malegaon man is district’s first Covid-19 casualty, 4 others test positive||NASHIK: The district recorded its first coronavirus-related death after a 51-year-old man succumbed to the infection at the Malegaon government hospital on Wednesday afternoon. The man and five others showing Covid-19-like symptoms were admitted to the Malegaon sub-civil hospital on Tuesday. They are all residents of Malegaon. The throat swab reports arrived on Wednesday night and five of them, including the man who succumbed, were found to be Covid-19 positive. The samples were tested at the lab in the Dhule-based government medical college and hospital. “Five suspects had tested positive, including the man who died. A woman and three other men who tested positive have been kept in the isolation ward of the sub-civil hospital and are being treated,” district collector Suraj Mandhare. He added that the other confirmed patients are stable. All the individuals were admitted to the sub-civil hospital with complaints of respiratory illness. “One of them had received some treatment before being admitted here,” the collector said. As of now, the administration is tracing contacts of the patients who come from the different parts of the textile town. The deceased had been to Umrah and returned more than a month ago. “None of the five positive patients had a history of travel in the past fortnight. We are still trying to figure out if there are more patients in and around their houses and the ones they came in contact with. There could be a clue as to how the infection reached them,” Mandhare said. Mandhare rushed to Malegaon in the morning to conduct a meeting of the municipal corporation officials, health officials, the police department and others. He directed all of them to take stringent measures but remain sensitive to people’s needs. He stressed on stopping people’s movement in the town to cut down the possibility of coronavirus spread. He requested people to stay indoors. “Lock yourself in the house. All the essential goods including food, milk and vegetables will be provided by the services hired for the people. They need not get out of the house for the next 14 days. This is the best way to treat the infection,” the officer said warning that people who do not follow the orders will face strict action.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/malegaon-man-is-districts-first-covid-19-casualty-4-others-test-ve/articleshow/75073165.cms||Abhilash Botekar
April 10, 2020||Jaipur||Rajasthan: Ajmer mayor, 60 councillors stage protest over ration amid lockdown||AJMER: Councillors of the Ajmer Municipal Corporation, both from the Congress and BJP, as well as mayor Dharmendra Gehlot staged a protest against the district administration on Thursday, violating the lockdown rules and Section 144 of the CrPC. They alleged irregularities in the distribution of the ration for the needy. The protest took place in front of the collectorate and, later, the protesters were detained and taken to the Civil Lines police station. They were, however, released soon after counselling. They alleged that the rationing system had failed and claimed that the people were not getting food supplies meant for them. There was also anger against district collector Vishwa Mohan Sharma, who had recently issued orders preventing councillors from distributing food on their own. MLAs Vasudev Devnani and Anita Bhadel along with mayor Dharmendra Gehlot reached the spot and spoke with the protesters. Later, a meeting was held at AMC and it was decided to sanction Rs 1 lakh from the budget to all councillors from 60 wards. Earlier, the councillors gathered outside the collectorate and sat on the divider on the main road and shouted slogans against the collector. They alleged that the survey undertaken by BLOs was wrong and the figures incorrect. Deputy SP Priyanka Raghuvanshi came to the spot and warned that the protest was in violation of the lockdown. But councillors were adamant and refused to move until the collector came and held talks with them. At first, some women councillors were detained and taken to the Civil Lines police station. Extra force was called in and preparation was made to forcibly disperse the protesters. SP Kunwar Rashtradeep requested the councillors to disperse. When they didn’t comply, he warned them. But the protesters still did not budge and were taken to the police station and later released. Mayor Dharmendra Gehlot said that people who were not getting ration or supplies had accused the councillors of their respective ward and blamed the administration for failing to set up a supply mechanism. He said the AMC would provide food to the poor with funds from their own budget. Officials said that, as per the order of the district administration, councillors cannot supply government ration or food, including those from Akshaya Patra.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/ajmer-mayor-60-councillors-stage-protest-over-ration-amid-lockdown/articleshow/75073872.cms||---
April 10, 2020||Goa||At least a fortnight before Goan crew can return home||PANAJI: A proposal to allow domestic cruise liner MV Karnika to sail to Goa and come alongside at the Mormugao Port Trust (MPT) has been shot down by authorities. Officials have decided that the crew onboard the vessel, including over 100 Goans, will have to be quarantined at a facility in Mumbai before they can return home. The MV Marella Discovery, with 66 Goan crew members onboard, is in a similar situation. The vessel is presently off Kerala’s coast and is awaiting orders for disembarkation. The vessel has been asked to proceed to Mumbai. Ports minster Michael Lobo said all these crew members will be allowed to disembark at Mumbai. “After 14 days quarantine in Mumbai they will be given a medical certificate that they are Covid-19 negative. They will then be brought to Goa by bus and once again tested here for coronavirus and sent home to quarantine themselves.” Jalesh Cruises, which operates the MV Karnika, cancelled all cruises on March 12, as a precautionary measure against coronavirus (Covid-19). The vessel has been moored at Mumbai anchorage ever since. Meanwhile, 150 crew members from Mumbai were allowed to disembark and return home. Jalesh Cruises had sought permission to sail to Goa so that the Goan crew could disembark. The move did not find favour with the authorities. “We received an application a few days earlier for the ship to come to Goa, but the state government has to take a call,” a senior government official said. On March 10, as a precautionary measure, MPT cancelled all port calls for international cruise vessels. Meanwhile, Kamaxi Overseas Parrixit managing director Pai Fondekar said the crew is safer on the ship as the chance of them getting infected onboard is negligible. “The crew has completed 14 days on the vessel and they are safe. They have food and we are trying to keep them occupied,” he said. Kamaxi Overseas handles recruitment for Jalesh Cruises. Officials said the vessel has sufficient stock of food and entertainment programs are also conducted onboard.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/at-least-a-fortnight-before-goan-crew-can-return-home/articleshow/75074307.cms||---
April 10, 2020||Madurai||Madurai: Corporation deploys 101 vehicles for veggie sales||MADURAI: The city corporation has scaled up the sales of vegetables and fruits as the demand have gone up. As many as 101 vehicles carrying vegetable and fruit packs, priced at Rs 100 each, were flagged off on Wednesday. The corporation started sales of packets with assorted vegetables and fruits recently in order to supply them at doorsteps of residents to prevent people from stepping out of their homes during lockdown. Officials said that the initiative is a hit as some of vehicles return empty within an hour. While the civic body started with just 15 vehicles, the number has gradually increased to 101. The sale is being done by bringing together vegetables and fruits wholesalers and volunteers. While the corporation is providing vehicles, fuel and drivers, consignments sent by wholesalers are sold with the help of volunteers after packing them. The corporation commissioner S Visakan inspected the decentralized vegetable markets. After closing down bigger markets for retail sales, the civic body had decentralized them to 34 places in the city. While a disinfection tunnel has already been installed by the corporation with the help of a NGO at Madura college ground, where one of the decentralized market is functioning, one more was installed at the corporation main building on Wednesday. Officials said that four more are being planned at present with one being at Wakf Board College ground, where a temporary market functions. Officials from the corporation said that boiled egg is being provided at all the 12 Amma canteens with the help of a sponsor. Free food is being supplied to more than 2,000 health workers. Ever since curfew restriction came into force, the canteens have attained prominence. Around 1.44 lakh people have consumed food at these canteens in the last 10 days alone. Vegetable biryani and mushroom biryani are also being offered along with regular food.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/corpn-deploys-101-vehicles-for-veggie-sales/articleshow/75055757.cms||---
April 10, 2020||Goa||Goan econ to take severe beating with halt in demand and supply||Panaji: Eighteen days into the lockdown and signs of acute distress have surfaced within Goa’s industrial sector. With Covid-19 showing no sign of halting its march and Prime Minister Narendra Modi indicating that the nationwide lockdown may continue, Goa Inc expects the first quarter of the financial year to be washed out. Many expect economic activity to resume only in mid-May if not later. “A crisis of this sort has never been seen,” chairman of Goa’s leading business house, Dempo Group, Shrinivas Dempo said. “Today all our production is shut so we are not talking about zero profit, we are talking about zero revenue.” Industry insiders say that even if the state government lifts the lockdown on April 14, which looks unlikely, survival of smaller businesses is threatened by multiple challenges — inaccessible raw material, working capital shortage, lack of manpower and high fixed costs. Manufacturers have been hit by the double whammy of demand and supply coming to a grinding halt. The service industry also expects the first quarter to be bleak as global and local customers have cut down on discretionary spending. Since 2012, when mining ground to a halt, Goa’s economy has been struggling. Roll-out of the Goods and Service Tax regime in the aftermath of demonetisation pummelled the industrial sector. Industry watchers are now worried that for some of Goa’s sick industrial units, this maybe be the knockout punch. “Psychologically it has affected a lot of people. Recovery will take a long, long time and financially, small units will find it difficult to sustain for long,” a leading industrialist, who also has mining operations, said. Confederation of Indian Industry, Goa State Industries Association and other industry bodies have already conveyed their concern to the state government. “The EMI is on, salary is being paid, fixed costs are on and there is no business. I am not sure how long the industry can manage,” chairman of CII Goa Blaise Costabir said. A plea for financial support was brushed aside by chief minister Pramod Sawant on the grounds that the state’s finances are precarious. “The government certainly needs to step in if the lockdown continues beyond April 15 and based on impact some relief needs to be given to industries. The relief shall be distinguished as against the units which were anyway underperforming due to poor economic conditions since last one year,” CII National Executive Council member Nitin Kunkolienker said. The government has permitted the pharmaceutical, telecom and other essential units to remain operational, but manufacturing activity at these units is not at full capacity. “Somewhere down the line, the industry has to start. April-June quarter according to me is going to be very very bad, this is something one has to be mentally prepared for,” Dempo said. Most of Goa’s industrial units depend on raw material that comes from other states. The lockdown hampers the movement of finished products and raw material. With products remaining unsold, funds remain locked till the product is sold. “This first quarter we can’t expect a great show. It is not only the logistics cycle that is disrupted, the financial cycle has also been disrupted,” Costabir said. Despite the pain, all industry leaders supported the lockdown. “I am optimistic about the long term though there are short term challenges, but India businesses can convert challenges to opportunities,” Dempo said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/goan-econ-to-take-severe-beating-with-halt-in-demand-and-supply/articleshow/75074298.cms||Newton Sequeira
April 10, 2020||Surat||‘Asymptomatic carriers – silent threat’||Surat: For the first time since the Covid-19 outbreak, the Surat Municipal Corporation’s (SMC) health department has detected an asymptomatic case carrying the deadly novel coronavirus during the rigorous community sample testing drive started in the containment zone in Rander. Hasan Chacha Patel, 68, employed as a security guard at the Al-Amin apartment at New Rander road in Gorat became the first asymptomatic patient who tested positive of Covid-19 on Wednesday. Asymptomatic coronavirus cases are those who carry the virus but do not show any symptoms and can cause sporadic clusters of infections as cariers. Health officials said that working at the housing society where positive patient Ehsaan Rashid Khan Pathan, 52, was residing with his wife. Pathan, who had died at the SMIMER hospital due to co-morbid condition, was first taken to the Lokhat hospital from where an ambulance driver identified as Sajid Ansari, 40, had also tested Covid positive. Official sources said that the community sample testing drive has been started at the containment zones at Rander and Begumpura on April 7. In the last three days, about 486 samples have been taken and sent for laboratory testing. Only one asymptomatic positive case was detected and report of 200 samples is pending. About 170 samples of the patients suffering from Acute Respiratory Infection (ARI) from private and primary health centres have also been collected and sent for laboratory testing and their reports are pending. Deputy municipal commissioner (Health and hospital), Dr Ashish Naik told TOI, “The security guard is the first asymptomatic case detected in the community testing. The security guard doesn’t have any Covid symptoms and if there are more asymptomatic carriers like him, they could act as live bombs and cause cluster of infections.” Dr Naik further said that two days ago, two more asymptomatic Covid cases were detected, but as they were close contacts of the positive patient, they were under quarantine and their samples were also tested. “This signals a grim warning that people should stay indoors and avoid meeting people,” Dr Naik added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/asymptomatic-carriers-silent-threat/articleshow/75071811.cms||---
April 10, 2020||Jaipur||Rajasthan: Making masks, providing ration beyond call of duty||KOTA: The professionals who usually are seen sorting through the files of criminal and civil cases are now fulfilling their social responsibility during the lockdown. These days, they are making masks, distributing ration to the needy, organizing activities on social media platforms to entertain the people and keep the naughty kids engaged. Young CA professional Khyati Bhandari in Bundi along with her mother is busy making masks at her home. They distribute them among the needy at a time when medical stores have run out of the masks. She has distributed nearly 2,000 masks so far. JCI Urja club that Bhandari chairs, contributes one month’s ration packets to the families which have no means of livelihood during the lockdown. “Besides, we are also organizing various online activities on social media platforms like workshops, seminars on skill development, cooking, dish garnishing, poster making, Big Boss Tambola and antakshari competitions,” Khyati told TOI Earlier in March, she had uploaded videos on mask-making and awareness generation on coronavirus. Inspired by the videos, a family from Jodhpur contacted them and started making face masks at their home. Now, they have hired two workers who sew masks for Rs 5 each, she added. “Noticing the rising demand, I started making masks at home and distributing them among the residents of slum areas as they cannot purchase them. I am able to tailor 20-25 masks per day,” said Mahendra Kumari Verma, an advocate in Kota. One of her colleagues Sonal Vijay on Thursday joined her in the task. Sunil Jangid, block ASHA facilitator at Hindoli in Bundi, after completing eight hours of duty at the hospital, makes paintings to raise awareness on coronavirus and uploads them on his Facebook page and WhatsApp groups.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/making-masks-providing-ration-beyond-call-of-duty/articleshow/75073878.cms||---
April 10, 2020||Business||Realtors’ body wants $280bn relief package||Bengaluru: National Real Estate Development Council (Naredco) has sought a relief package of $280 billion from the government to ease the impact of coronavirus on various sectors of the economy. That roughly translates to about 10% of the GDP.“The economy is under tremendous pressure owing to exponential losses across sectors. Real estate has been under consistent stress with rising unsold inventories, liquidity crunch and now with Covid-19. W e urge the government to come up with an economic relief package keeping in mind oue current situation,” Niranjan Hiranandani, national president of Naredco, said. Hiranandani said he expects delays of ongoing projects to be between 3 and 15 months. Extension of lockdown may make it difficult to re-acquire labourers who have moved back to their towns and villages. The monsoon will start in the next two months, further delaying projects.Considering this, the developer’s body also wants all Rera compliances' deadline to be extended by a year. Maharashtra and Karnataka have already notified that such deadlines will be extended by three months. But Naredco said it should be at least one year.Naredco has also requested that after April 14, developers should be allowed to resume construction activities at places where the labourers are staying in the site.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/realtors-body-wants-280bn-relief-package/articleshow/75073845.cms||---
April 10, 2020||Hyderabad||Check each house in cluster, says CS||Hyderabad: Chief secretary Somesh Kumar on Thursday directed district collectors to take measures to contain the spread of novel coronavirus to protect and safeguard people. The chief secretary held a video-conference with the collectors on containment clusters, quarantine, surveillance of home quarantine and migrant workers’ relief in the districts. He advised the collectors to check every household in the containment clusters twice every day and any suspect cases should be referred for treatment. He instructed them to strictly ensure that no person is allowed to move freely in barricaded area. The CS asked them to ensure that disinfectant is spread twice daily in the containment clusters. He said that any foreign returnees or persons belonging to other states, who do not have homes, should be allowed to stay in government quarantine facilities. He said any violation by home quarantine persons has to be dealt with strictly. Kumar also asked them to ensure that essential commodities are delivered at the doorsteps of the people in containment clusters. He said that surveillance of local teams is more important particularly for home quarantine persons.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/check-each-house-in-cluster-says-cs/articleshow/75073868.cms||---
April 10, 2020||Jaipur||BSF jawans give masks to villagers||BSF jawans are playing an important role in making villagers staying close to the border aware about coronavirus. Besides providing food items to villagers, BSF jawans in Barmer and Jaisalmer have distributed masks and told them to maintain social distance. The second-in-command of 113th battalion Bhupendra Pratap Singh said an awareness camp was organised in Sundra village where people were told not to come out of their houses unnecessarily .||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/bsf-jawans-give-masks-to-villagers/articleshow/75073875.cms||---
April 10, 2020||Goa||Goa: Alert neighbours help to keep tabs on persons under home quarantine||PANAJI: Tracking persons who have been quarantined is a tough task in itself for health officials but over the last few days, with increased public awareness about corona virus it has become easier. Sort of. With neighbours keeping a close watch on quarantined patients, the ‘information’ that health officials receive vie from alert citizens needs to be vetted well or it could sound alarm bells. Health officers say that a lot of times, over-enthusiastic neighbours keep tab on those who are quarantined and immediately call the health department if they find anything amiss. But not all tips can be accurate. Health centres end up wasting their time when inaccurate information gets passed on about suspects. “People get so worked up, that they call to report flimsy complaints. At times, the information is totally wrong. We waste lot of our time investigating such complaints but when we receive a complaint, we have to investigate it,” said a health officer at primary health centre in North Goa. Two days ago, the officer said, they received a call that a couple staying at a farmhouse in Bicholim had travelled from outside Goa. The caller remained anonymous, but the address given turned out to be right. An inquiry followed, which revealed that the couple were locals.  “Since offices are shut, the couple had come to stay at their farms house. They live in another village in Sattari and had not travelled from outside Goa,” he said. While alert villagers and neighbours can be of help to the officials, over-enthusiastic neighbours can be a headache as was discovered by another health officer in south Goa. The officer said that the team received a call from the neighbour of one Covid-19 suspect to say that the suspect had stepped out to buy vegetables. But as it turned out, precautions were being followed. “The suspect had not defied quarantine stipulations. He had completed 14 days in quarantine and after being locked in the house for 14 days, he had gone out,” she said. With repeated complaints being phoned in from his neighbours, the health officer finally requested the man to be stay indoors for a few more days. Justifiably upset, the suspect asked if the villagers want him to be shut in his house for the remainder of his life. “We try our best to explain to people. Some understand, some do not,” she said. Health workers make it a point to phone-in people daily who are under quarantine, or even up to two calls if needed. If a call is not answered, the team calls the patient again. Some people do not answer or even return their calls. “If repeated calls remain unanswered, we intimate the police to check on such suspects,” said another official. But not all is lost as most health officers said at least 50% of people they deal with are sensible and cooperate with their team. Some even call up their health official every morning with a status of their health.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/alert-neighbours-help-to-keep-tabs-on-persons-under-home-quarantine/articleshow/75074315.cms||Bindiya Chari
April 10, 2020||Chennai||Finally, Tamil Nadu govt to collect data on guest workers, April 14 deadline for collectors||CHENNAI: After trade unions and activists flayed the government for not registering guest workers as per the Inter-State Migrant Workmen Act, 1979, which left hundreds of workers and their families in the lurch during the Covid-19 crisis, district collectors have been directed to collect and compile data on them. Additional principal secretary of labour Mohammed Nasimuddin has sent a communication to all district collectors to collect data of guest workers in their respective districts. The data collection has been initiated following a direction from chief secretary K Shanmugam. The collectors have been requested “to complete the data collection and submit the report to the government on or before April 14,” Nasimuddin said in the communication. Authorities said the non-availability of the data on guest workers has deprived them of their rightful benefits under the social security scheme. “A quality and updated data of the workforce will help the government in implementing welfare measures,” Nasimuddin said. According to the directorate of industrial safety and health, a total of 1.18 lakh guest workers are employed in factories and 64,000 workers in the construction industry. No proper data of guest workers in other major sectors are available. “For the government, more than 80% of workers in garment and textile units and spinning mills in Coimbatore, Erode and Tirupur districts are non-existent,” said CITU-Tirupur general secretary G Sampath. The trade unions and activists have criticised the government agencies for failing to enforce the Inter-State Migrant Workmen Act, 1979, and the Building and Other Construction Act, besides other related legislation that have left more than 30 lakh guest workers in a fix. They welcomed the government finally waking up to the problems of guest workers and launching the drive to collect information. “Since there were unskilled workers engaged for daily wage, they were neither enrolled in their native states nor in the destination state,” said R Geetha of Unorganised Workers Federation.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/finally-govt-to-collect-data-on-guest-workers-apr-14-deadline-for-collectors/articleshow/75073884.cms||Shanmughasundaram J
April 10, 2020||Trichy||Corpn’s social media handles in coma||Trichy: The last tweet from Trichy City Corporation’s official Twitter handle, which has 2,166 followers, was on March 12. While the health department and other civic bodies share latest information for public through their social media handles in the wake of the Covid-19 outbreak, the corporation that does not have a public relationship officer (PRO) is in no hurry to pass Covid-19 updates to the residents. Trichy city has 18 Covid-19 positive cases. And every time, the authorities disclose results of swab tests of suspected cases admitted to the government hospital here, anxious residents seek information on the native places of the positive patients. For those who want to be prepared to deal with the pandemic, the corporation offers no help. While Chennai, Coimbatore and Avadi Corporations update their Covid-19 activities on regular intervals in social media, Trichy Corporation’s official Facebook and Twitter handles are in coma. “People panic every time news on new Covid-19 positive cases in Trichy flashes. If we were told about the locations of containment zones, we can keep ourselves prepared to handle the situation,” said V B Jaganath, a resident of Karumandapam. Even the people-friendly initiatives such as sale of vegetable bags and door delivery of groceries to keep residents indoors were not shared in the social media handles. The corporation sources said that they are not furnishing the details of Covid-19 activities as the district administration is sharing the details. However, the district administration shares district-wide data but not the city-specific details about the positive cases and containment zones. “We will revive the social media handles,” an official source with the corporation said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/corpns-social-media-handles-in-coma/articleshow/75073859.cms||Deepak Karthik
April 10, 2020||Jaipur||Rajasthan: Pokhran maulvi tests positive, FIR against him for defying lockdown protocol||JAISALMER: Five new positive cases were detected in Pokhran on Thursday taking the total count in the last three days to 19. The district administration has imposed curfew and sealed many villages. It has taken samples of 150 suspects and have kept them in isolation in several hotels and resthouses in the town. Police have lodged a case against the chief of Tabligi Jamaat (western Rajasthan) Maulvi Abdul Hui who lives at Badli village near Pokhran. He tested positive on Thursday. SP Kiran Kung confirmed that Hui had gone to Devbandh Madarsa at Saharanpur in March and returned to Pokhran before visiting several districts including Churu and Tonk with Tablighi Jamaat followers. The members of Jamaat who had come to Pokhran from New Delhi stayed with the maulvi from March 23 to 26. After lockdown, he continued visiting many areas and hid much information from the government. She said police administration had gone to meet the Maulvi twice to get information but he refused to provide any. A case has been lodged against him under IPC sections 188, 269, 270, 51. The SP said investigations were on to find out where all the Tablighi Jamaat organised programmes in the state and violated the government orders. District collector Namit Mehta said after the new covid-19 cases, Badli, Sangram Singh Ki Dhani, Udla and Gomat have been completely sealed and movement in all routes have been stopped. Mobile shops are being run to provide items of daily needs to people in curfew-bound areas. He said that so far 300 people have been kept in quarantine in Pokhran.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/pokhran-maulvi-tests-ve-fir-against-him-for-defying-lockdown-protocol/articleshow/75073883.cms||---
April 10, 2020||Nashik||Woman in labour delivers healthy baby in hospital, thanks to Nashik police||NASHIK: Implementing the lockdown rules effectively while doing outdoor duty for long hours during the coronavirus scourge is no mean task in itself. However, two Nashik city policemen went the extra mile, helping a pregnant woman reach hospital and deliver a healthy baby soon after. The police personnel —Toufiq Attar and Sanjay Londhe — were patrolling in Shivaji Wadi slum area and spotted a few men desperately looking for transport and some people standing out of their homes around 12.30am on Tuesday Tuesday night. The two cops, who were on duty at the slum in Mumbai Naka police station jurisdiction, told people to get back into their houses as it was lockdown period. When the people told them about the medical emergency and no means of transport to reach hospital, the cops soon took the task upon themselves. “We tried to stop some private vehicles transporting essential commodities but none offered help. Time was running out as the woman had gone into labour, so we requested for a police van, in which the woman and her family members were taken to the Nashik civil hospital,” said Sanjay Londhe. “We also called up the 108 ambulance service but the call went to Pune and we were told that the service could be delayed. We were then forced to request for a police vehicle, which came to the rescue,” Toufiq Attar said. Ravi Kadale, the father-in-law of the woman, said he was overwhelmed by the policemen’s response. “My daughter was in pain since 11pm and we were looking for help. None of the vehicle owners dared to venture out. The policemen were like sent by God,” he Kadale. Police commissioner Vishwas Nangre Patil praised the two policemen on duty for “putting the humanitarian angle and arranging for transportation for the woman.” “We have asked our personnel to be sensitive and reach out to people in distress during the crisis, especially in slum areas because they are the ones who are without much resources. I congratulate my staff as they have done exactly the thing that was needed at the time of an emergency,” added Patil.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/woman-in-labour-delivers-healthy-baby-in-hospital-thanks-to-police/articleshow/75073187.cms||Abhilash Botekar
April 10, 2020||Trichy||Tamil Nadu: Doctor tests positive in Nagapattinam||NAGAPATTINAM: A 67-year-old retired senior civil surgeon in the district was admitted to the Tiruvarur Government Medical College Hospital after he tested positive for Covid-19 on Thursday. With this number Covid-19 positive cases in Nagapattinam district will touch 12. The doctor, a resident of Velippalayam in the town, runs a clinic at Azhagar West Street and has been treating patients regularly for ordinary ailments. After he developed Covid-19 like symptoms in the first week of April, he approached government hospital in Nagapattinam on April 7 and a swab sample was sent to Tiruvarur Government Medical College Hospital for test and has been in quarantine since. According to sources, a large number of patients turn up at his clinic every day, as he charges very less as his fee. His family members are put under home quarantine while his clinic and medical shop functioning beside it were closed by the health authorities on Thursday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/doctor-tests-ve-in-nagapattinam/articleshow/75073865.cms||---
April 10, 2020||Kolkata||‘Wanted holidays, now it seems like overdose’||Kolkata: Sugata Chatterjee (35), assistant professor of physics, Gurudas College, who was initially kicked at the concept of working from home as he started online classes for his students, is now tired of staying at home for the last two weeks and being dragged into almost every family discussion that he could earlier ignore. “The lockdown has given us time to spend time with family. But there are situations that can’t be avoided,” said Chatterjee. Chatterjee and most of his five family members are now reading books and watching movies during their leisure time. “I spend much of the morning and afternoon hosting online classes and also respond to students’ queries. But solving their queries is nothing when it comes to answering the barrage of questions I have to face 24x7 from my four-year-old son Ujaan,” he said. Being with his son, who also sneaks in front of the laptop webcam more than once during his online classes, Chatterjee said he had developed a taste of watching some of Ujaan’s favourite online activities — binge watching ‘Chhota Bheem’ and ‘Spiderman’ films. “After a few sessions of explanations, he has understood why we are locked into house. My wife Keya is a storyteller and writer and she knows the tricks to keep my son busy for a fair amount of time,” he said. With the maids on paid leave, the household chores are now being divided among family members. “Every individual washes his own dishes and helps others in daily chores,” said Chatterjee’s father Samir, a retired government employee. “Once we longed for a vacation. Now it feels like an overdose. Some heated words are also being exchanged. Still we hope for a better world that can be achieved by sacrificing some earthly pleasure. We have also donated a little amount to the CM’s relief fund,” Chatterjee said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/wanted-holidays-now-it-seems-like-overdose/articleshow/75073869.cms||Tamaghna Banerjee
April 10, 2020||Nashik||‘Grains given to Rs 1 crore ration cardholders’||NASHIK: State civil supplies minister Chhagan Bhujbal said that as many as 1,00,40,822 ration cardholders across the state have been provided with thegrains in the first eight days of April. Speaking to the press, Bhujbal said, “The government has taken all the necessary steps to ensure none of the people go without food during the current crisis. So far, 25.81 lakh quintal of food grains have been distributed among more than 1 crore ration cardholders.” The state has about 7 crore ration card holders under the priority family scheme and the Antodyaya Anna Yojana. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/grains-given-to-1cr-ration-cardholders/articleshow/75073194.cms||---
April 10, 2020||Trichy||Farmers want public hearing for transfer of EB connection||Trichy: Delta farmers have appealed to the Tamil Nadu Electricity Regulatory Commission (TNERC) to announce a fresh date to conduct a public hearing on the transfer of electric pumps for agriculture purpose. Farmers alleged that the commission issued an online notification asking them to send their feedbacks online only, that too before April 6. Meanwhile, farmers have appealed to the government to conduct a public hearing to address the grievances and share their ideas. Around 24 lakh farmers from across the state have electric pump sets and still several hundreds of ryots are waiting for power connections. They have the option to shift their power connections to one agriculture farm to another if the fields are coming under the same division of the electricity board. But, the commission has come out with a fresh announcement allowing farmers to shift their power connections wherever they want in the state. The Tamil Nadu Electricity Regulatory Commission has uploaded a notice in its website asking the stakeholders to send their feedback online. Usually, new announcements would be made public through print media in such a way to reach all the stakeholders. A public hearing would also be conducted by the authorities concerned, secretary of Thanjavur District Cauvery Farmers Protection Association Swamimalai S Vimalnathan said. “However, this time, a majority of the farmers are unaware of the issuance of such an online notification. Stakeholders came to know about the notice only on April 7, when the feedback should have been sent on April 6. Farmers are not that tech savvy. How do they understand that there was a notification circulated online, without getting any communication from the commission”, Vimalnathan asked. TOI’s attempted to contact the officials of Tamil Nadu Electricity Regulatory Commission for their response was unanswered.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/farmers-want-public-hearing-for-transfer-of-eb-connection/articleshow/75073879.cms||D Vincent Arockiaraj
April 10, 2020||Hyderabad||To stifle virus, Hyderabad may seal more areas||HYDERABAD: The number of containment clusters in the city might increase depending upon the number of coronavirus cases. The restrictions in the existing clusters will continue for 14 days. “As of now we have marked 12 areas in the city. Some test results are yet to come out. Areas will be covered based on the reports. People need not panic, the activities are being taken up for benefit of people,” said chief secretary Somesh Kumar while inspecting one of the clusters. “Roughly 12 to 15 areas have been identified and number can go up,” said city police commissioner Anjani Kumar. Containments behind Khairtabad and the area around Mallepally Badi Masjid, Nampally were inspected by line department. One containment zone has been marked for a population of around 4,000 to 7,000 people. Roads and buildings department have provided barricading at entry and exit points in these clusters. GHMC and line departments have been entrusted with the task of ensuring essential supplies reach the households in the clusters. Verification revealed people in some clusters were using bylanes to escape the barricading. Only some parts of clusters were barricaded and activity will continue on Friday too. The sports complexes and GHMC community halls in these areas are being used by multi-disciplinary teams to roll out the day’s action plan. Officials went around the localities in vehicles and made announcements asking people to stay indoors. Door-to-door surveys to check people for coronavirus symptoms have begun in these areas.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/each-cluster-to-contain-between-4k-7k-people/articleshow/75073916.cms||Nabinder Bommala
April 10, 2020||Business||Cognizant withdraws 2020 revenue forecast||BENGALURU: Cognizant has withdrawn its 2020 revenue forecast on account of the uncertainties created by the Covid-19 pandemic. The Nasdaq-listed company in February had forecast a 2%-4% growth in constant currency (that discounts the impact of currency fluctuations) for the 2020 financial year. Cognizant follows Accenture in revising expectations. Last month, Accenture said it expects its revenue to grow in the range of 3% to 6% this fiscal, compared with 6% to 8% that it had previously forecast. It follows a September to August financial year. Cognizant CEO Brian Humphries on a business update call on Thursday said: “Over the last few weeks, we have seen everything from incremental opportunities that were unexpected to the other extreme of project deferrals, request for furloughs, temporary rate concessions and deferred payment terms, and I don’t think anybody can reliably predict how long this macro-economic environment will persist and what it may mean and for that we ultimately felt it was a responsible thing to do to withdraw the 2020 financial guidance.” Cognizant said the during the latter part of March, Covid-19 increasingly affected Cognizant’s business due largely to delays in project fulfilment, as delivery, particularly in India and the Philippines, shifted to work-from-home. The firm also saw reduced client demand, primarily in the travel and hospitality industries. “We are seeing broad-based slowdown, the most significant impact is of course to the client businesses in retail, consumer goods, travel & hospitality as well as media and entertainment. Of course, we are also seeing disruption in other industries that serve those such as financial services,” Humphries said. He said the firm will prepare for the worst and hope for the best. “We remain committed to optimising our cost structure and connecting that pipe into our revenue curves. But we also want to protect key skills and embrace a high-performance culture,” he said. Cognizant said revenue in the first quarter is expected to be in the range $4.22-$4.23 billion, including a negative 50 basis points’ impact from the company’s exit from content services. The projected growth is 3.4-3.6%, much below the 3.8% growth it had previously guided. CFO Karen McLoughlin said, “We believe that the disruptions related to Covid impacted revenue in the later part of the first quarter by $30 to $35 million. Additionally, we did incur some cost in the quarter to enable work from home as well as cost at our facilities, we had medical staff, we had to enable social distancing etc which will impact the quarter to some extent.” She said over the last few weeks the crisis management and business continuity teams executed a significant coordinated cross-functional effort to quickly enable more associates to work from home in a safe environmente. “The efforts included things like providing laptops to employees who might typically work on desktops, encrypting desktops and transporting them to the employees’ homes, enhancing security protocols to enable BYOD, increasing internet bandwidth or providing internet cards, obtaining necessary approvals from clients to enable work from home. So, this has been a really tremendous effort on the part of our team,” she said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/cognizant-withdraws-fy20-guidance/articleshow/75073877.cms||Shilpa Phadnis
April 10, 2020||Jaipur||Youth Cong results spark internal conflict||Jaisalmer: After the announcement of results of Rajasthan Youth Congress elections on Tuesday, the party has been caught in internal conflict. Amardeen Fakir, who bagged the second spot in the polls, has expressed dissatisfaction over the results and written a letter to Congress president Sonia Gandhi requesting her to reinvestigate the matter. In his letter, he has written that first the results came on March 3 but they were not announced officially. At that time, maximum votes were bagged by Sumit Bhagasara. But on April 7, when the results were formally announced, Mukesh Bhakar was named as the Youth Congress president for Rajasthan. Pointing a finger at the election authority and leaders, he argued why didn’t they announce the results with transparency. He alleged that the results were stopped due to some conspiracy. Thus, he has requested Congress national president to probe the matter.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/youth-cong-results-spark-internal-conflict/articleshow/75073886.cms||---
April 10, 2020||Delhi||Delhi lockdown: Essentials not the biggest headache||NEW DELHI: Confined to their homes because of the lockdown, it seems that people these day are more stressed seeing the plight of the disadvantaged and the economic crisis rather than immediate worries like availability of essential goods, job cuts and getting infected by novel coronavirus. All this and more interesting aspects have come across in a study conducted by Lady Shri Ram College for Women (LSR). The study titled “Probing Pandemic Pandemonium: A Real Time Study of Covid-19 Stress, Coping and Psychological Consequences in India” was conducted in 10 states, including Delhi, Haryana, Chandigarh, Rajasthan, Bihar, Karnataka, Assam and Maharashtra. A majority of the respondents felt that the government’s response had been adequate and now work on the economy should be started on a war footing. Around 43% respondents said they participated in activities like clapping from the balcony with a sense of pride. The lockdown has also brought about various changes in people with 96.5% agreeing not to waste food, 72.2% saying they will reduce expenditure on luxury items and 91.1% promising to take better care of their health and hygiene. Interestingly, none of the coping strategies, like meditation, pursuing hobbies and talking to friends, helped in reducing stress. Out of the 1,009 respondents from the middle/upper class income strata, 63.1% were women. The age ranged from 17-83 years. While 44.4% of the sample was of 36-59 years, 30.2% were students, 12.5% homemakers, 7.1% retired, and 50.2% employed in fields like education, finance, health services, law, real estate, business, startups, etc. Inspired by several initiatives taken by LSR principal Suman Sharma, the survey was conducted by department of psychology associate professor Kanika K Ahuja with the support of research associates Mitali Temurnikar and Vani Bhardwaj. The research, using factor analysis, revealed that stress experienced due to Covid-19 is made up of five stressors — vexation with others, immediate concerns, routine disruption, uncertainty about the future and systemic stressors (abbreviated as VIRUS). Of these five, vexation with others emerged as the highest stressor, followed by systemic stressors, and lastly immediate concerns. Frustration was very high due to people not following the social distancing norm leading to high rates of transmission and repetitive messages on social media and news channels creating panic. The surveyors also held detailed telephonic interviews with 15 participants. “What distresses me the most is when I see Instagram photos of fancy food put up by my friends on one side, and images of poor, tired migrants walking back to their villages. I feel guilty about my position of privilege,” said a respondent. With most coping strategies not working, Ahuja advised, “Social distancing has resulted in physical distancing, even among family members. This loss of touch needs to be restored. So, hold hands, hug, be physically intimate, but only within your homes. Become altruistic, create clear pathways towards contributions, not just in cash, but in kind.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/essentials-not-the-biggest-headache/articleshow/75074328.cms||Manash Pratim Gohain
April 10, 2020||Nashik||NMC to set up screening points to collect throat swabs||NASHIK: The Nashik Municipal Corporation (NMC) has decided to set up three screening points at Tapovan, Nashik Road, and other locations to collect throat swabs of Covid-19 suspect in the city. The locations are expected to be finalized in a day or two. The civic body has also developed a cabinet box with the help of a city-based company to protect its doctors while collecting throat swabs of Covid-19 suspects. The box has been designed with the help of engineers of the company. “The screening centres meant to collect swabs of Covid-19 suspects only. The setting up of cabinet box at the screening points is part of safety measures to protect doctors or medical staff who will collect the samples,” said NMC official. The cabinet box is a transparent and the Covid-19 suspects have to give throat swabs inside the cabinet box so that a doctor or a medical staff attending the patient will be protected. This is for the first time such experiment is being done in Nashik, said an official. “The company has donated five cabinet boxes to us. We have already received one unit and other four units are expected to be received shortly,” an official said. Presently, the NMC has set up institutional quarantine facilities at two locations for those who have a travel history to affeced places. These facilities are located at the building of municipal corporation in the Tapovan area and another one in quarters of fire brigade department of municipal corporation at Nashik Road. The capacity of quarantine wards in Tapovan and Nashik Road are 28 and 100 respectively.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/nmc-to-set-up-screening-points-to-collect-throat-swabs/articleshow/75073205.cms||Tushar Pawar
April 10, 2020||Madurai||Authorities step in to help farmers in dists||Madurai: In the wake of lockdown, district administration officials in southern Tamil Nadu have made arrangements through the horticulture department to sell the fruits and vegetables which are cultivated by farmers. The officials had come up with this initiative as the farmers who had cultivated vegetables and fruits are unable to sell their produce. The officials had taken steps to procure the vegetables and fruits cultivated by the farmers through Tamil Nadu Horticulture Development Agency (TANHODA) outlets and through the Farmers Producers Groups (FPG) to ensure that the people get the vegetables and fruits at nominal prices during the lockdown. Speaking to TOI, deputy director of horticulture department, Dindigul district, K Srinivasan, said that vegetables are cultivated in 18,000 hectares in Dindigul district every year. He said that vegetables such as onions, tomatoes and drumsticks are cultivated in major areas in the plains and vegetables such potatoes, carrot, green peas and beans at hill areas in the district. He said that currently there are nearly 5,000 hectares of standing crops of vegetables in the district and nearly 300- 350 tonnes of vegetables comes to the market every day from the district. He explained that the vegetable market at Oddanchatram is functioning as usual and vegetables are also transported to other districts every day. He said that in an attempt to help the farmers sell their vegetables and fruits during the lockdown, the officials from the horticulture department are procuring the produces from the farmers and are selling them mobile TANHODA outlets and also through the FPGs in the district. Farmers who have cultivated fruits and vegetables could avail the help of the horticulture department officials to market them, he added. Fruits and vegetables are cultivated at 7,078 hectares and 3,425 hectares respectively in Virudhunagar district. Similarly, fruits and vegetables are cultivated at 4,400 hectares and 300 hectares in Sivaganga district.  In Tuticorin district, fruits and vegetables are cultivated at 9,775 hectares and 6,134 hectares. Officials are also taking similar steps through the horticulture department to help the farmers sell their produce and to ensure the availability of fruits and vegetables to the people during the lockdown.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/authorities-step-in-to-help-farmers-in-dists/articleshow/75073893.cms||---
April 10, 2020||Goa||Police rescue Chinese man who walked from Candolim to south||PANAJI: A Chinese man in his early thirties was rescued by the police on his way to Palolem after his attempt to walk the entire 80-km-long distance from Candolim failed. The incident occurred over a week ago. Amit Satija, nodal officer assisting foreign nationals in Goa during the Covid-19 pandemic, said a police patrol vehicle found the exhausted man sitting at a roadside shop in South Goa and picked him up. The Chinese national later told North Goa additional collector Shashank Mani Tripathi that he chose to walk to Palolem to live with a friend after he became stranded in Candolim where he had travelled to stay for a few days before the lockdown was announced. “We tried calling his friend on the number given by him, but calls didn’t go through,” Tripathi said. The foreigner was subsequently tested for Covid-19 and placed in a government shelter. His test results came back negative. Details of the man’s friend have been passed on to the Canacona police, Tripathi said. Satija said he has already resolved 3-4 cases of foreign nationals being asked by landlords to vacate their respective accommodations after the lockdown was announced, leaving them with nowhere to go. As fear of the coronoavirus outbreak spread, some landlords in North Goa even began asking their guests to furnish health certificates stating that they were Covid-19 negative. Two weeks ago, a foreigner had approached the district hospital in this regard, a health officer said. Until last week, no laboratory in the state had been certified as a collection centre for Covid-19 samples. Testing at Goa Medical College (GMC) and hospital, Bambolim, meanwhile, is done strictly as per protocol fixed by the central government. This week, SRL Diagnostics, Porvorim, was certified as collection centre for Covid-19 samples. Any person can get a test done there by producing a doctor’s prescription.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/police-rescue-chinese-man-who-walked-from-candolim-to-south/articleshow/75074321.cms||Bindiya Chari
April 10, 2020||Trichy||Conservancy workers honoured with paada puja for clean streets||Trichy: Mookayi, 45, a conservancy worker with the Pudukottai municipality, could not fight back tears when a resident from the street she cleans daily fell at her feet. “I asked him not to wash my feet as we are from lower caste,” said Mookayi, “but he didn’t listen to us. I didn’t expect him to give so much respect. For the first time, I felt proud for taking up conservancy work.” She was one among the three-people who M Senthil Kumar, 42, from Big Street performed ‘paada puja’. He washed their feet, applied sandal paste and offered flowers before falling on their feet while expressing his gratitude. He wanted to honour them for keeping the streets clean and removing garbage from the locality. Senthil also offered new clothes and money, apart from garlanding them in the presence of his two children in front of his house. For conservancy workers like Mookayi, the day starts as early as 5am and goes on till afternoon. Apart from sweeping streets, she collects segregated waste from about 350 houses in two streets and goes home at 5pm after completing her remaining work. Her husband too was a conservancy worker who died a few years back. She is now living with her daughters and grandchildren. “Paada puja is a Hindu ritual to express our thanks to someone whom we admire. I found it apt to recognise Mookayi and Senthil, 35, who are conservancy workers for our street,” said Senthil. An advocate, Senthil said that medical professionals like doctors and nurses get recognition for their service during such testing times, but the contribution of conservancy workers in keeping Pudukottai district free from Covid-19 is mostly ignored.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/conservancy-workers-honoured-with-paada-puja-for-clean-streets/articleshow/75073892.cms||Sampath Kumar
April 10, 2020||Hyderabad||Telangana: Tribals walk 30km for food, survive on tamarind juice||AMRABAD: The 21-day lockdown has forced several Chenchu adivasi families in Amrabad’s Nallamalla forest range to walk almost 30 km to collect essential food supplies, being provided by the state government. While the government is working to help tribal communities by supplying rice, vegetables and other essentials, many Chenchu families say that the lack of transportation to Appayapally and Mannanur — where the supplies are being provided — has become a hassle and is forcing them to walk long distances inside the tiger reserve where bears, leopards and wild boars have mauled scores of people. Speaking to TOI, Chenchu Surayya, a resident of Medimakala penta (hamlet) said, “My mother, who went to get rice from Appayapalam, got stranded there till 6 pm because she couldn’t get any transport while returning. Before the lockdown, we would hire an auto to go there. But now we have to either walk or stay hungry.” Surayya added: “We are mostly surviving on tamarind juice. The government should allow at least a few autos or some other transport inside the forest so that we can collect the essentials from tribal welfare department.” Spread over 2,800 sq km, about 150 km from Hyderabad, the tiger reserve has an estimated 137 hamlets. Each hamlet is located at a distance of at least 5 to 10 km. Some Chenchu families who used to grow their own food a few years ago have stopped doing so after they were encouraged to sell the forest produce in Girijan Cooperative Corporation (GCC). Nimmala Bayyanna, a resident of Medimakala penta said, “We would have at least survived on our own crops. Now, we have no means to sell the forest produce or earn money to buy rice. Since we do not want to risk our lives by walking 20-30 kms to get the ration, we are mostly eating fried Madipi ginjalu (seeds of Sal tree) or just drinking tamarind juice.” When contacted, Integrated Tribal Development Agencies (ITDA) project officer Akhilesh Reddy said, “We are supplying ration to the tribal communities at Gramina Co-operative Corporation’s warehouse at Appayapally every Wednesday and Thursday. The procedure was the same before the lockdown as well. There are no restrictions inside the forest. There is no difficulty in transportation as per our knowledge. There might be a few families facing certain issues and we will definitely address them if they are brought to our notice.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/tribals-walk-30km-for-food-survive-on-tamarind-juice/articleshow/75073272.cms||Moulika.KV
April 10, 2020||Aurangabad||Three of Latur’s eight Covid-19 cases test negative||AURANGABAD: Of the eight men from Andhra Pradesh who had tested positive for the novel coronavirus on April 4 in Latur while travelling back from Haryana, three have tested negative for the virus twice on Tuesday and Wednesday. They were undergoing treatment at the Vilasrao Deshmukh Government Medical Science Institute (VDGMSI). A group of 12 people, all natives of Andhra Pradesh, had travelled to Haryana’s Ferozepur for a religious event. Amid lockdown, the group hired two private vehicles and were issued emergency pass by the Haryana state government. They travelled by road via Mathura and Dhule to reach Latur’s Nilanga. However, according to the group members, the vehicle drivers refused to take them further and dropped them at Nilanga where they had taken refuge at a religious place. On April 2, the Latur district administration picked them from the site and they were admitted to VDGMSI. Eight out of 12 had tested positive for Covid-19. However, on Tuesday the district administration tested all eight people again, of which, four tested negative. In a retest, three of the four tested negative and the report of one is awaited. VDGMSI dean Girish Thakur said that as per protocol, the three cases who have turned negative twice will continue to be under observation for 14 days. “After 14 days, we will test them again and if they test negative, they can be counted as recovered cases,” Thakur said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/3-of-laturs-8-covid-19-cases-test-negative/articleshow/75073201.cms||Arpita Sharad
April 10, 2020||Goa||Now, sanitisation tunnel in Valpoi to fight coronavirus||VALPOI: Everyone wants to do their bit to defeat Covid-19. A Valpoi-based businessman has prepared a portable sanitisation tunnel that he believes can aid in the fight against the virus. Made up of plastic net and pipe, the tunnel has micro sprinklers on top which sprays sanitiser liquid on all those who pass through. “You have to walk through the tunnel and the sanitiser liquid will sprinkle on the individual. Once that happens, whatever virus and bacteria is present on the body will be killed,” said Prasad Khadilkar, who built the tunnel. Khadilkar struck upon the idea from agricultural farms where similar tunnels are used. His son Parag, a local panch, said such tunnels can be prepared in two days. They have six in stock. One tunnel has already been donated to the Community Health Centre while another will be handed over to the Valpoi police station on Friday. “This sanitisation tunnel is portable and can be set up at entry, exit points of hospitals, offices, schools police stations and other places,” Khadilkar told TOI.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/now-sanitisation-tunnel-in-valpoi-to-fight-coronavirus/articleshow/75074325.cms||---
April 10, 2020||Nagpur||Prayers go to the cloud! Online Good Friday services the first time ever||Nagpur: This will be the first Good Friday and Easter Sunday when members of the Christian community attend services performed at churches virtually, via live streaming. The city will observe the holy occasion of Good Friday to commemorate the crucifixion of Jesus Christ, on the Friday before Easter, which is on April 10. Some sections of the Christian community also observe a fast. Many people also participate in the church services specifically on the day, but this year as everyone is grounded in their homes they will have to participate in the online streaming of the services. Reverend Ramakrishnan, district superintendent of Methodist Church, gave some insights about using YouTube to broadcast the services after the coronavirus lockdown started in the city. “Good Friday is one of the most important and holy days for all the members of the Christian community. We will be streaming the services live from the church on YouTube. This day is to remember the holy teachings and importance of Lord Jesus,’’ he said. Usually, Good Friday services at the churches take a good three-and-a-half hours. Churches are incorporating modern solutions to observe the day in these troubled times, though retaining the dignity of the services. Some churches are also moving to more recent applications than YouTube or Facebook. “We will be streaming our service live on an application called ‘Zoom’. We have a good community connect on the app and people are looking forward to view the service. We will perform the prayer and dedicate this day to remembering the words of wisdom and kindness taught by Lord Jesus,” said pastor Sanjay Masih of Alpha Omega Church. Learning the teachings from the ‘Way of the Cross’ is the highlight of the Good Friday service. Hundreds of devout Catholics gather at SFS church each year to listen to mass and participate in it. The afternoon sermons narrate the tale of sufferings Jesus Christ took upon himself for the sake of humanity. “Choir and services adds essence to the day. Sadly, devout won’t be able to make it to the church, but live streaming will help us all to soak in the blessings and worship of Lord Jesus, who sacrificed his life for us,” said Kevin Pinto, SFS church choir. In the church Calvary Ministry of India, Bishop Reverend Paul Moses David will perform the service and enlighten those attending it on the Facebook page of the church about the pious importance of the day. “We would later post video of services performed at the church, but because of the lockdown we will live stream it. All the service, prayers and mass can be viewed by the devout at their homes. We hope this day and the coming Easter Sunday brings positivity and peace in the current situation,” said Elixir David, secretary of the church. Sanjay Singh, secretary of All Saints Cathedral, Sadar, said, “We have started to live stream after the lockdown. We streamed the service of Maundy Thursday and will telecast the service on Friday too. We hope that all the devout get to witness the service and they offer prayers from their homes.” Services will also be streamed live early morning on Easter Sunday, which calls for a day filled with happiness, joy and celebrations. Archdiocese of Nagpur too is ready with their YouTube and Facebook channels to observe Good Friday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/prayers-go-to-the-cloud-online-good-friday-services-the-first-time-ever/articleshow/75073589.cms||Shreya Tinkhede
April 10, 2020||Kolkata||‘Lockdown has wiped out concept of time’||Kolkata: Entrepreneur Kalyan Chaudhuri has virtually lost track of time as he remains confined to his home at an apartment complex in Behala with his wife Kakoli and son Saptarshi. An early riser and usually constantly on his toes to run his engineering business, Chaudhuri has now been finding it difficult to keep himself engaged. “I have subscribed to Amazon Prime, Netflix and Hoichoi and watch at least two movies a day. In the morning, I watch the news but with the Covid-19 graph in India refusing to hit a plateau, I turn it off, depressed,” said Chaudhuri. “I have now started feeding the strays. Also, being the treasurer of the apartment, I act as the conduit between the residents and the police. But yet, when I hit bed after midnight, I find it difficult to fall asleep.” Chaudhuri usually has to travel a lot and often, finds it difficult to keep pace with time. “ Stuck at home, I prepared the payroll of my employees. We are a small firm, and the past three days, I have been receiving calls from my employees. They are naturally anxious, given there has been no production of late,” he said. “Even if we survive the novel coronavirus, are we ready for the economic challenge ahead?” Chaudhuri’s son Saptarshi, who studies performing arts at Presidency University, looks forward to his 40-minute online class every day. “I am thankful for those 40 minutes, when I do something constructive. After the lesson, we have a lot of discussions, where we stick to academics. I have downloaded some classics. I am reading up on Charlie Chaplin. . As there is no question of stepping out, the terrace is now my only place of freedom. I watch films through the night and fall asleep early in the morning,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/lockdown-has-wiped-out-concept-of-time/articleshow/75073896.cms||Dwaipayan Ghosh
April 10, 2020||Aurangabad||City’s Covid-19 management strategy revised||Aurangabad: In view of new Covid-19 cases emerging in the city, the Aurangabad Municipal Corporation (AMC) has announced the implementation of a revised strategy on Covid-19 prevention and management in city. Municipal officer of health Nita Padalkar on Thursday said that the new strategy is aimed at isolation of suspect and confirmed cases. “According to the plan, 12 centres have been identified as fever clinics including four AMC centres, six centres facilitated by Indian Medical Association (IMA) and two private hospitals,” Padalkar said. Samaj Kalyan Hostel at Qile Ark, MGM Sports Complex, Emergency Operating Centre (EOC) at Padampura, MIT Hostel, Dhoot Hospital, MGM Hospital, IMA Hall, IMA Cidco N-2 Mahajan Colony, IMA Jawahar Colony, IMA Badhkar Gate, IMA M-2 TV Centre and IMA Kanchanwadi will work as fever clinics. “Those who have a travel history or had come in contact with a Covid-19 patient or have symptoms should only visit one of these 12 fever clinics where they will be screened,” Padalkar said. People with mild symptoms and upper respiratory tract infection will be considered suspects and they will be placed under isolation at one of the four of Covid-19 care centres. The Samaj Kalyan Hostel, MGM Sports Complex, EOC Padampura and MIT Hostel with combined bed capacity of 610 beds will be serving as Covid-19 care centres. They will facilitate throat swab collection and admission. “If the patients at the Covid-19 care centres test negative, they will be treated and discharged. But if they test positive, they will be moved to one of the dedicated Covid-19 health centres (DCHCs). “District civil hospital with 220 beds, MGM Hospital with 500 beds and Dhoot Hospital with 200 beds are the three DCHCs identified in city. Patients with pneumonia and no sign of severe disease will be treated at these centres,” Padalkar said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/citys-covid-19-management-strategy-revised/articleshow/75073208.cms||---
April 10, 2020||Goa||Don Bosco engg college leads the way in e-education||Panaji: Don Bosco college of engineering at Fatorda has become one of the first professional institutes in the state to offer virtual classes.  “Realising that there was no other alternative, I decided to motivate my faculty to connect our students virtually so that they can utilise their time efficiently,”said college principal, Neena Panandikar. “Teaching analytical subjects involving mathematics through online mode is a challenge and the lockdown has given us the opportunity to do something innovative,” she added. The teachers are using synchronous platforms such as Zoom, Google Classroom, Webex and other freely available apps to deliver content. “I wanted to ensure that it was no less than classroom teaching,” said Vaishali Parakhi, who teaches mathematics. Natasha Dsouza e Jaques said, “Formathematics, students expect visual representations. Using the AZ Screen Recorder mobile app has been useful to overcome these challenges to a certain degree.” Online quizzes and feedback ensures that the students are in constant touch with the learning material provided. Anand Raikar, a BE mechanical engineering student said, “It was a great learning experience. I could learn at my own speed with a flexible environment and at a convenient time.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/don-bosco-engg-college-leads-the-way-in-e-education/articleshow/75074332.cms||---
April 10, 2020||Trichy||Face masks sell like hot cakes||Trichy: Vendors selling face masks outside Mahatma Gandhi Memorial Government Hospital (MGMGH), Trichy have been doing brisk business in the last two days. Vendors are able to sell an average of 100-120 face masks a day. The sales have increased manifold in the last two weeks. When the lockdown was announced there wasn’t such a huge demand as the public were advised not to wear masks unless they were sick. P Velusamy, 30, from Bheema Nagar who sells masks in front MGMGH was able to sell 120 ordinary face masks by afternoon. His wife, a tailor, has been stitching the face mask. Velusamy has been selling it for Rs 15 a piece, and he says that sales are really good as people make sure they wear masks before entering the hospital. S Manjula, 40, who is selling stretchable face masks, says that people have now become choosy about colour and design of the masks. “Wearing masks is important may not yield results if they are not worn and handled in the proper manner,” says K Govindaraj, Chairman, Dr G Viswanathan group of Hospitals. The masks can be effective for only for 4-8 hours, he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/face-masks-sell-like-hot-cakes/articleshow/75073909.cms||Sampath Kumar
April 10, 2020||Surat||Gujarat: Thieves steal toor dal, rice from Navsari godown||SURAT: While the do-gooders have been running around distributing food items to the needy and hapless, thieves are also taking advantage of the 21-day lockdown and helping themselves clanestinely to food grains stored in the warehouses. A food grains godown owned by a private shop owner in Navsari, Raju Jain, was targeted by the thieves on Wednesday. Thieves stole nearly 10 bags of toor dal and two bags of rice to the tune of Rs 22,000. While patrolling in Navsari town has been intensified due to the lockdown, the thieves managed cock-a-snook at the law and break inot the godown located on the Bhesatkhada road in Navsari town early on Wednesday morning. Jain, a resident of Tidhra Road, informed the Navsari town police regarding the incident. Navsari town police stated that an FIR is yet to be registered. An application was submitted by the godown owner where he mentioned about the theft of toor dal and rice bags worth Rs 22,000. A police officer said that they are yet to register a complaint in this connection. “The godown owner has submitted a plain application informing about the incident. However, patrolling has been intensified in the area to nab the thieves,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/thieves-steal-toor-dal-rice-from-navsari-godown/articleshow/75071835.cms||---
April 10, 2020||Aurangabad||Civil surgeon seeks IMA’s help||District civil surgeon Sundar Kulkarni has sought the cooperation of private medical practitioners working under the banner of Indian Medical Association (IMA) to co-operate with the district civil hospital in the pandemic management. President of IMA chapter Aurangabad Santosh Ranjalkar said that the IMA has communicated to its members to be ready to offer assistance to the government health machinery in preventing and managing the infection.“We have appealed to our sub associations, including that of physicians, chest physicians and anaesthesiologists, to be ready to volunteer when needed,” Ranjalkar said. Industry representatives discuss relief measures: The Confederation of Indian Industry (CII) representing industries of Maharashtra held an exclusive interaction with the state industries department on Thursday. The interaction was organised to discuss industry concerns, impact and future course of action for restart. State industries and mining minister Subhash Desai promised the representatives that their views would be taken into consideration while taking major decisions.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/civil-surgeon-seeks-imas-help/articleshow/75073213.cms||---
April 10, 2020||Nashik||Petrol dealers give meals to medical staff||NASHIK: Petrol dealers associated with Hindustan Petroleum Corporation Ltd (HPCL) have taken the initiative to provide meals to around 30-35 medical staff at the Nashik district civil hospital. The meals include breakfast, lunch, high tea and dinner. They have started providing meals from Wednesday through a well-known restaurant in the city, which is popular for good quality and delicious food. “There are around 35 doctors and medical staff who are working 24x7 to treat Covid-19 patients. It is our duty to take care of them. As part of this, we have taken this initiative with the help of our dealers,” said Pralay Jambhulkar, the chief divisional manager of HPCL. Bhushal Bhosle, the president of Nashik Petrol Dealers’ Association said there are around 110 petrol HPCL dealers in the district. They all have contributed and supported the initiative. “We are supplying breakfast with tea, lunch, high tea in the noon and dinner to all the 35 medical staff who are treating Covid-19 patients at the civil hospital, through a well-known restaurant,” said Bhosle.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/petrol-dealers-give-meals-to-medical-staff/articleshow/75073234.cms||Tushar Pawar
April 10, 2020||Ludhiana||18 new coronavirus cases in Punjab, 9 linked to Jamaat||CHANDIGARH: Across Punjab, 18 new cases of Covid-19 were reported on Thursday. The total number of cases in the state thus rose to 130, and with one more death reported the toll reached 10. Maximum six cases were detected in Mansa, which were all related Tablighi Jamaat. In Ludhiana, four new cases came to light, of which two were related to Tabligh Jamaat. Four cases of coronavirus infection were confirmed in Jalandhar too. Mohali, Muktsar, Sangrur and Barnala, all reported one new case. The case in Muktsar was related to Jamaat as well. So far, 3,192 samples have been sent for testing in Punjab, of which 2,777 were found negative. Results are awaited in 285 cases. Punjab has also been able to declare 18 patients cured, while 102 are still under treatment. Health officials said sample of a 50-year-old woman from Mehal Kalan village in Barnala, who had died two days ago at Ludhiana, has tested positive of Covid-19. The sample of the deceased was collected after her death and report was made public on Thursday evening. Before being admitted to the hospital, the woman was living at her parents' place at Pakhowal area of Ludhiana. She had complained of high fever and breathlessness due to which she was admitted to the Fortis Hospital, Ludhiana, where she breathed her last on Tuesday night. Her husband is away in Guwahati. After her death, the Ludhiana deputy commissioner had directed the hospital authorities to put the body in the mortuary and sample was obtained as she had complained of high fever and breathlessness. Barnala civil surgeon Dr Gurinderbir Singh said the area where she lived in Mehal Kalan had been contained. The administration was looking into her travel history and the persons who came in her contact. Meanwhile, the report of the husband and maid of another woman of Barnala, who had Covid-19 dieases, is negative whereas the sample of her daughter has been sent again. In Mansa, six more persons have been found positive who had come in contact of the five members of Tablighi Jammat, who were tested positive earlier. The Tablighi Jamaat members had stayed at a mosque at Budhlada town of Mansa after they had come from Delhi on March 19. They belong to Chhattisgarh. Now, out of the six persons found positive is a couple, two women and two children, all resident of Budhlada. They have been admitted at Mansa civil hospital in isolation. The areas where they lived in Budhlada have been contained and administration is on contact tracing. Similalrly, a 23-year-old man from Jandiala town near Amritsar was tested positive for coronavirus on Thursday. The medical superintendent of Guru Nanak Dev Hospital Dr Raman Sharma said the patient had returned from England and was asymptomatic. He was advised for quarantine at Jandiala but fled from there, Dr Sharma said, adding later he was held by the authorities which brought him to Amritsar where his test was conducted.  He is the fifth positive Covid-19 patient admitted in the hospital, said he. As many as 13 family members of the man, whose father runs a shop in Jandiala, were brought to Amritsar for quarantine. The 65-year-old resident of Sangrur district, who tested positive on Thursday was already quarantined after the health department from Ludhiana had put them on alert that a resident from Sangrur had returned in a flight in which a Covid-19 positive patient from Ludhiana has also travelled. The patient hails from Gaggarpur village of the district and had returned in a special flight on March 24 from Delhi to Sahnewal. The health authorities claimed they are trying to locate his contacts during this period, even though he was kept home-quarantine. Sangrur deputy commissioner Ghanshyam Thori said, "The patient who tested positive on Thursday was home quarantined and was asymptomatic but his samples were taken two days ago as a precautionary measure." Three patients in Jalandhar do not have any travel history and till Thursday evening it was not clear from whom, where and when the three might have contracted the infection. Those who tested positive included operation theatre assistant of Sacred Heart Hospital, Maqsoodan and the health department asked the hospital administration to quarantine the doctors and other staff members who had been in contact in the last few days. However, the health department officials are suspecting that he might have contracted the infection from outside the hospital. This patient is also a resident of Anand Nagar in Maqsoodan. One of the women (42) is from Old Sabzi Mandi and the other is from Bhairoan Bazaar. A Covid-19 patient Parveen Kumar Sharma, who died in the wee hours of Thursday in the civil hospital, also did not have any travel history. It was not clear from whom he could have got the infection.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/18-new-cases-in-punjab-9-linked-to-jamaat/articleshow/75074665.cms||---
April 10, 2020||Amritsar||18 new coronavirus cases in Punjab, 9 linked to Jamaat||CHANDIGARH: Across Punjab, 18 new cases of Covid-19 were reported on Thursday. The total number of cases in the state thus rose to 130, and with one more death reported the toll reached 10. Maximum six cases were detected in Mansa, which were all related Tablighi Jamaat. In Ludhiana, four new cases came to light, of which two were related to Tabligh Jamaat. Four cases of coronavirus infection were confirmed in Jalandhar too. Mohali, Muktsar, Sangrur and Barnala, all reported one new case. The case in Muktsar was related to Jamaat as well. So far, 3,192 samples have been sent for testing in Punjab, of which 2,777 were found negative. Results are awaited in 285 cases. Punjab has also been able to declare 18 patients cured, while 102 are still under treatment. Health officials said sample of a 50-year-old woman from Mehal Kalan village in Barnala, who had died two days ago at Ludhiana, has tested positive of Covid-19. The sample of the deceased was collected after her death and report was made public on Thursday evening. Before being admitted to the hospital, the woman was living at her parents' place at Pakhowal area of Ludhiana. She had complained of high fever and breathlessness due to which she was admitted to the Fortis Hospital, Ludhiana, where she breathed her last on Tuesday night. Her husband is away in Guwahati. After her death, the Ludhiana deputy commissioner had directed the hospital authorities to put the body in the mortuary and sample was obtained as she had complained of high fever and breathlessness. Barnala civil surgeon Dr Gurinderbir Singh said the area where she lived in Mehal Kalan had been contained. The administration was looking into her travel history and the persons who came in her contact. Meanwhile, the report of the husband and maid of another woman of Barnala, who had Covid-19 dieases, is negative whereas the sample of her daughter has been sent again. In Mansa, six more persons have been found positive who had come in contact of the five members of Tablighi Jammat, who were tested positive earlier. The Tablighi Jamaat members had stayed at a mosque at Budhlada town of Mansa after they had come from Delhi on March 19. They belong to Chhattisgarh. Now, out of the six persons found positive is a couple, two women and two children, all resident of Budhlada. They have been admitted at Mansa civil hospital in isolation. The areas where they lived in Budhlada have been contained and administration is on contact tracing. Similalrly, a 23-year-old man from Jandiala town near Amritsar was tested positive for coronavirus on Thursday. The medical superintendent of Guru Nanak Dev Hospital Dr Raman Sharma said the patient had returned from England and was asymptomatic. He was advised for quarantine at Jandiala but fled from there, Dr Sharma said, adding later he was held by the authorities which brought him to Amritsar where his test was conducted.  He is the fifth positive Covid-19 patient admitted in the hospital, said he. As many as 13 family members of the man, whose father runs a shop in Jandiala, were brought to Amritsar for quarantine. The 65-year-old resident of Sangrur district, who tested positive on Thursday was already quarantined after the health department from Ludhiana had put them on alert that a resident from Sangrur had returned in a flight in which a Covid-19 positive patient from Ludhiana has also travelled. The patient hails from Gaggarpur village of the district and had returned in a special flight on March 24 from Delhi to Sahnewal. The health authorities claimed they are trying to locate his contacts during this period, even though he was kept home-quarantine. Sangrur deputy commissioner Ghanshyam Thori said, "The patient who tested positive on Thursday was home quarantined and was asymptomatic but his samples were taken two days ago as a precautionary measure." Three patients in Jalandhar do not have any travel history and till Thursday evening it was not clear from whom, where and when the three might have contracted the infection. Those who tested positive included operation theatre assistant of Sacred Heart Hospital, Maqsoodan and the health department asked the hospital administration to quarantine the doctors and other staff members who had been in contact in the last few days. However, the health department officials are suspecting that he might have contracted the infection from outside the hospital. This patient is also a resident of Anand Nagar in Maqsoodan. One of the women (42) is from Old Sabzi Mandi and the other is from Bhairoan Bazaar. A Covid-19 patient Parveen Kumar Sharma, who died in the wee hours of Thursday in the civil hospital, also did not have any travel history. It was not clear from whom he could have got the infection.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/amritsar/18-new-cases-in-punjab-9-linked-to-jamaat/articleshow/75074666.cms||---
April 10, 2020||Chandigarh||18 new coronavirus cases in Punjab, 9 linked to Jamaat||CHANDIGARH: Across Punjab, 18 new cases of Covid-19 were reported on Thursday. The total number of cases in the state thus rose to 130, and with one more death reported the toll reached 10. Maximum six cases were detected in Mansa, which were all related Tablighi Jamaat. In Ludhiana, four new cases came to light, of which two were related to Tabligh Jamaat. Four cases of coronavirus infection were confirmed in Jalandhar too. Mohali, Muktsar, Sangrur and Barnala, all reported one new case. The case in Muktsar was related to Jamaat as well. So far, 3,192 samples have been sent for testing in Punjab, of which 2,777 were found negative. Results are awaited in 285 cases. Punjab has also been able to declare 18 patients cured, while 102 are still under treatment. Health officials said sample of a 50-year-old woman from Mehal Kalan village in Barnala, who had died two days ago at Ludhiana, has tested positive of Covid-19. The sample of the deceased was collected after her death and report was made public on Thursday evening. Before being admitted to the hospital, the woman was living at her parents' place at Pakhowal area of Ludhiana. She had complained of high fever and breathlessness due to which she was admitted to the Fortis Hospital, Ludhiana, where she breathed her last on Tuesday night. Her husband is away in Guwahati. After her death, the Ludhiana deputy commissioner had directed the hospital authorities to put the body in the mortuary and sample was obtained as she had complained of high fever and breathlessness. Barnala civil surgeon Dr Gurinderbir Singh said the area where she lived in Mehal Kalan had been contained. The administration was looking into her travel history and the persons who came in her contact. Meanwhile, the report of the husband and maid of another woman of Barnala, who had Covid-19 dieases, is negative whereas the sample of her daughter has been sent again. In Mansa, six more persons have been found positive who had come in contact of the five members of Tablighi Jammat, who were tested positive earlier. The Tablighi Jamaat members had stayed at a mosque at Budhlada town of Mansa after they had come from Delhi on March 19. They belong to Chhattisgarh. Now, out of the six persons found positive is a couple, two women and two children, all resident of Budhlada. They have been admitted at Mansa civil hospital in isolation. The areas where they lived in Budhlada have been contained and administration is on contact tracing. Similalrly, a 23-year-old man from Jandiala town near Amritsar was tested positive for coronavirus on Thursday. The medical superintendent of Guru Nanak Dev Hospital Dr Raman Sharma said the patient had returned from England and was asymptomatic. He was advised for quarantine at Jandiala but fled from there, Dr Sharma said, adding later he was held by the authorities which brought him to Amritsar where his test was conducted.  He is the fifth positive Covid-19 patient admitted in the hospital, said he. As many as 13 family members of the man, whose father runs a shop in Jandiala, were brought to Amritsar for quarantine. The 65-year-old resident of Sangrur district, who tested positive on Thursday was already quarantined after the health department from Ludhiana had put them on alert that a resident from Sangrur had returned in a flight in which a Covid-19 positive patient from Ludhiana has also travelled. The patient hails from Gaggarpur village of the district and had returned in a special flight on March 24 from Delhi to Sahnewal. The health authorities claimed they are trying to locate his contacts during this period, even though he was kept home-quarantine. Sangrur deputy commissioner Ghanshyam Thori said, "The patient who tested positive on Thursday was home quarantined and was asymptomatic but his samples were taken two days ago as a precautionary measure." Three patients in Jalandhar do not have any travel history and till Thursday evening it was not clear from whom, where and when the three might have contracted the infection. Those who tested positive included operation theatre assistant of Sacred Heart Hospital, Maqsoodan and the health department asked the hospital administration to quarantine the doctors and other staff members who had been in contact in the last few days. However, the health department officials are suspecting that he might have contracted the infection from outside the hospital. This patient is also a resident of Anand Nagar in Maqsoodan. One of the women (42) is from Old Sabzi Mandi and the other is from Bhairoan Bazaar. A Covid-19 patient Parveen Kumar Sharma, who died in the wee hours of Thursday in the civil hospital, also did not have any travel history. It was not clear from whom he could have got the infection.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/18-new-cases-in-punjab-9-linked-to-jamaat/articleshow/75074662.cms||---
April 10, 2020||Aurangabad||Aurangabad’s Covid-19 management strategy revised||AURANGABAD: In view of new Covid-19 cases emerging in the city, the Aurangabad Municipal Corporation (AMC) has announced the implementation of a revised strategy on Covid-19 prevention and management in city. Municipal officer of health Nita Padalkar on Thursday said that the new strategy is aimed at isolation of suspect and confirmed cases. “According to the plan, 12 centres have been identified as fever clinics including four AMC centres, six centres facilitated by Indian Medical Association (IMA) and two private hospitals,” Padalkar said. Samaj Kalyan Hostel at Qile Ark, MGM Sports Complex, Emergency Operating Centre (EOC) at Padampura, MIT Hostel, Dhoot Hospital, MGM Hospital, IMA Hall, IMA Cidco N-2 Mahajan Colony, IMA Jawahar Colony, IMA Badhkar Gate, IMA M-2 TV Centre and IMA Kanchanwadi will work as fever clinics. “Those who have a travel history or had come in contact with a Covid-19 patient or have symptoms should only visit one of these 12 fever clinics where they will be screened,” Padalkar said. People with mild symptoms and upper respiratory tract infection will be considered suspects and they will be placed under isolation at one of the four of Covid-19 care centres. The Samaj Kalyan Hostel, MGM Sports Complex, EOC Padampura and MIT Hostel with combined bed capacity of 610 beds will be serving as Covid-19 care centres. They will facilitate throat swab collection and admission. “If the patients at the Covid-19 care centres test negative, they will be treated and discharged. But if they test positive, they will be moved to one of the dedicated Covid-19 health centres (DCHCs). “District civil hospital with 220 beds, MGM Hospital with 500 beds and Dhoot Hospital with 200 beds are the three DCHCs identified in city. Patients with pneumonia and no sign of severe disease will be treated at these centres,” Padalkar said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/citys-covid-19-management-strategy-revised/articleshow/75073219.cms||---
April 10, 2020||Pune||Pune's district collector vows to bring more under detection net||PUNE: District collector Naval Kishore Ram wants random Covid-19 detection tests of all symptomatic persons in the containment zones both in the city and Pimpri Chinchwad following the spurt in the contagion count. The collector had marked out the containment areas in various parts of the old city, Kondhwa, four localities in the Pimpri Chinchwad limits and also Ghorpadi. The number of Covid-19 cases has been increasing in the past three days. By Thursday, the number of positive Covid-19 cases went up to 209 with 25 deaths in the district. “We will step up the random tests on the symptomatic persons from the containment areas. They will be tested at the flu clinics to be opened up in both the corporation areas and Sassoon hospital. We urge people to approach the Sassoon hospital’s flu clinic. If a person shows any symptom, the swab test will be done. The person will be hospitalized if the test report is positive,” Ram told TOI. He said a big section of people was still not properly adhering to the social distancing norms and strict action would be taken against such behaviour. “There are many people who step out without any reason. Serious action will be taken against such pople. Moreover, we have made wearing of masks compulsory in the entire district,” the collector said. With the death toll rising to 25 on Thursday, he said people should understand that most of the cases had other physiological problems and the comorbidity factor was high. ‘Most cases have been reported from private hospitals and shifted to Sassoon General Hospital. We have told the health team to ensure a detailed audit of all the casualties,” said the collector. He, however, pointed out that the increase in deaths also reflected that there were many more “hidden cases” in society. “Such cases should come out more, for which there is a need for more tests,” Ram said. With many of the deaths had pneumonia as a factor, a team of medical experts has been told to study the main reasons for patients going into such a condition. “We have asked the medical experts to keep a close watch on the patients who are admitted and are in isolation,” he said. “The district has already initiated more tests. In the past week, 1,500 tests were conducted as against only 1,000 tests between March 9 and March 31. The number of tests will only increase,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/collector-vows-to-bring-more-under-detection-net/articleshow/75073920.cms||Nisha Nambiar
April 10, 2020||Chennai||Doc: Fewer people showing up with other health woes||TOI’s Pushpa Narayan went live on Facebook with Dr Raj B Singh, senior consultant and head of department of respiratory medicine, Apollo Hospitals, asking him questions on Covid-19 posed by our readers. Excerpts from the discussion How serious is the Covid-19 infection? We have to look upon this as a potential problem than an established one. It is a serious infection. We have reached a stage where we have contained it to an extent. Are patients coming for other diseases undertreated? Yes, there are fewer people with other diseases in our hospitals and that’s the same in other hospitals. People are probably scared to come to hospital for fear of getting the infection. Some are even afraid that patients may bring in infection into their hospitals and are hence discouraging them from coming. Are people staying at home or going to smaller centres? We have seen a few patients who were brought in dead because of a number of reasons including not getting the right treatment at the right time. Co-morbidities like lung disease and asthma are big problems for Covid-19 as far as mortality of patients is concerned. How are they linked? This particular virus has a predilection to affect your lungs. Many people who have a serious problem with this infection will have pneumonia to begin with. If lungs are already weak, it will not be able to withstand the effect of this virus. Lungs will find it difficult to cope. People with heart diseases will also have difficulties. Many patients coming in for Covid-19 are asymptomatic. But they rapidly deteriorate later and are unable to survive in a ventilator for an hour or two. Why? We are not sure why people respond differently to the virus. One possible reason is the amount of virus that enters the body initially. If many viruses enter the body, a big response can be produced which provokes an exuberant inflammation in the lungs that can kill people. When it is in a slow decline and the patient is able to withstand the period on the ventilator, then we can say the patient will survive. Can smokers survive Covid-19 better than non-smokers? Smoking is not protection for Covid-19. It commonly causes heart attacks, strokes and cancer. Can multiple organs be involved in this? There are studies showing a link to the brain as well Yes. In all diseases, one can’t say it affects only one organ. Even in heart attacks, people die of respiratory failure. Everything is like an orchestra. Here people are losing smell at the start, it could be linked to the brain. I have no travel history and have been at home since March 25. If I develop fever or breathlessness, should I fear that I have corona or wait for a couple of days after taking antibiotics? If you have not been in contact with anyone who has a corona virus infection, it is very unlikely you would have gotten it from the air. But we can’t be sure we did not come in contact with a Covid-19 positive patient. So if you get fever, it would be some other infection. But if you see, all other infections would have come down as well. I don't think many people are calling in with fever. Infection rate in the community for other fevers has come down. Check out Facebook.com/chennaitoi for live discussion with dietician Meenakshi Bajaj of Rajiv Gandhi Government General Hospital at 10am on April 10.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/doc-fewer-people-showing-up-with-other-health-woes/articleshow/75073923.cms||---
April 10, 2020||Aurangabad||Covid-19 patient booked for spitting & violating isolation norm in Osmanabad||AURANGABAD: A Covid-19 positive patient, admitted to a health sub-centre in Omrega, has been booked by Osmanabad police for spitting in the open and not following the isolation norm. The action was taken after health authorities lodged a complaint against the man who is in his 20s. The patient, who came to Omerga from Mumbai, has been booked under sections 269 (negligent act likely to spread infection of disease dangerous to life) and 188 (Disobedience to order duly promulgated by public servant) of the Indian Penal Code (IPC). Osmanabad superintendent of police Raj Tilak Roushan, on Thursday, said the suspect worked as a waiter in a five-star hotel in Mumbai and voluntarily came forward for screening after developing symptoms of Covid-19. “Five days ago he was brought to the health sub-centre after his throat swab sample tested positive. However, his behaviour was found objectionable. The suspect allegedly kept spitting in the open and roaming outside the isolation facility. The patient also refused to pay heed to the repeated warnings given by the medical staff,” he said. “As the behaviour of the patient remained unchanged, medical officer with Omerga health sub-center Basawraj Danai lodged a complaint against his at Lohara police station on April 7,” Roushan added. According to police, the patient has been reprimanded and warned of severe action if he does not follow instructions given by the health authorities. “The suspect does not have any connection with Tablighi Jamaat,” a police officer said. So far, Osmanabad district has three confirmed cases of COVID 19, while a total of 306 suspected patients have been tested. Test reports of 49 patients are still awaited. Meanwhile, Osmanabad police on Thursday booked a total of eight people for not wearing masks and violating lockdown norms. A total of 214 vehicles plying on roads without valid reason during the current lockdown period were also seized.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/covid-19-patient-booked-for-spitting-violating-isolation-norm-in-osmanabad/articleshow/75073224.cms||---
April 10, 2020||Kolkata||Kolkata: Community kitchens for daily wagers, homeless||KOLKATA: Students, alumni of various institutions and citizens have come up with community kitchens in different parts of the city to feed daily wagers and homeless people during the lockdown. A community kitchen, known as People’s Kitchen, has been set up at Ripon Street by ‘Quarantined Student-Youth Network’. Members like Subhadeep Das, Alamin Ali and Mohd Arshad have been working tirelessly in this kitchen to cook and distribute food to 200 homeless people living in Park Circus, College Street, Hedua, Ahmerst Street and Surya Sen Street. TimesViewA little-known and little-talked-about facet of the city’s character has come out in this hour of crisis. We can be proud of those among our fellow citizens who have got going when the going has got tough.Ashutosh college student Subhadeep Das said, “We were facing difficulty in finding space and got in touch with Alamin. Since Mohiuddin Chacha’s eatery was closed, he gave us consent to use his space for the kitchen.” At Santoshpur, a community kitchen is being run by Tathagata Roychoudhury and his neighbours to feed around 250 people in and around his locality, Sealdah and M R Bangur Hospital. JU research scholar Dwaipayan Choudhury has also started a similar drive to feed 200 daily wagers and homeless people near Bandel railway station. Since March 29, Switch ON Foundation and Active Citizens Together for Sustainability (ACTS) have been running ‘Project Karuna’ in collaboration with Kolkata, Bidhannagar and Howrah Police to feed around 15,000 people daily in the city. They set up five kitchens at Camac Street, Anandapur, Jadavpur, Park Circus and Strand Road, where food is being cooked and then handed over to the police for distribution.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/community-kitchens-for-daily-wagers-homeless/articleshow/75073927.cms||Dipawali Mitra
April 10, 2020||Trichy||Cops: People can move only within 1 km radius of house||Trichy: More than two weeks into the curfew over Covid-19, Trichy city police have tightened the noose around violators by restricting the movement of people to a one-kilometre radius of their house from Wednesday. “General public should buy their essentials from shops within a kilometre radius of their residences failing which they will be prosecuted and their vehicles impounded,” said commissioner of police V Varadharaju. The change of approach has been necessitated by the callous attitude of the people who have been taking to the roads citing excuses of medical emergency and buying essentials. “People have been misusing the exemption given to step out of the house to buy groceries and medical emergencies. Almost all localities have shops to sell essential things,” said the commissioner. Intensifying the drive against curfew violators, CoP Varadharaju and other senior rank officials also joined the enforcement activity at around 25 places. Almost all check points across the city witnessed people's movement offering a variety of excuses. Citing instances police said a woman resident of Srirangam came all the way to Chathiram bus stand to buy mushroom from the temporary vegetable market. The police handed out a receipt imposing a fine of Rs 500 under the disaster management Act.  A man from KK Nagar was roaming near Woraiyur with a piece of old doctor's prescription under the guise of buying medicine. However, when police enquired, it was revealed that he came to meet his friend, resulting in seizure of his vehicle under MV Act. N Navukkarasan, a traffic police inspector, has applied some novel ideas to make the people realize the onslaught of the virus. Catching the violators at the signals, he would give them a green chilli and ask them to eat it. As they start feeling 'the heat', the inspector would relate the sensation to the danger of Covid-19. On a softer note, he would also give them a piece of groundnut candy to offset the chilli effect.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/cops-people-can-move-only-within-1-km-radius-of-house/articleshow/75073926.cms||---
April 10, 2020||Goa||Ex-RSS chief’s wife dies||Panaji: The wife of long-serving former Goa RSS chief Subhash Velingkar, Sushma, 68, passed away in the early hours of Thursday morning at GMC. Sushma Velingkar was undergoing treatment at the hospital for the last eight days after her kidneys were affected due complications related to high sugar levels. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/ex-rss-chiefs-wife-dies/articleshow/75074342.cms||---
April 10, 2020||Delhi||Delhi courts won’t break for summer||NEW DELHI: Courts in Delhi will remain functional in June to make up for the working hours lost due to the Covid-19 crisis. In a decision taken after consulting the bar, top judges of the high court led by Chief Justice, D N Patel, suspended the summer vacation (June 1-30) for this year in high court and subordinate courts. “This decision has been taken by the Full Court on April 9 to make up for the loss of court working hours and to ensure restoration of normalcy in the functioning of the courts at the earliest,” said a statement issued by the high court. “The September 16, 2019 notification, which had declared the period of the summer vacations for the high court and trial courts in capital in June this year, is modified,” it added. “It is expected that members of the Bar shall extend their full cooperation in making the functioning of the courts meaningful and purposeful during the month of June 2020.”  Since the court shut down last month, all cases except extremely urgent ones, have been automatically adjourned for at least a month or more, leading to inevitable rise in pendency. As per the high court administration, the judges also took into account the severe hardship being faced by litigants on account of the lockdown and consequent suspension of functioning of the courts that are currently hearing matters of extreme urgency only through videoconferencing.  High Court Bar Association secretary Abhijat has welcomed the decision and appealed to members of the bar and legal fraternity to cooperate in this time of emergent national crisis.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/delhi-courts-wont-break-for-summer/articleshow/75074347.cms||Abhinav Garg
April 10, 2020||Aurangabad||No private labs for Covid-19 testing in Marathwada||AURANGABAD: Even though tests for Covid-19 carried out by private laboratories account for one-third of the total screening across the state, this facility is still not available at any private hospital or laboratory in Marathwada. Out of the 20,877 tests carried out in the state till Wednesday 7,893 were carried out by the private labs. The government has already capped the price of Covid-19 testing at private facilities at Rs 4,500, while the Supreme Court has advocated free testing amid impending danger of mass transmission of the pandemic. Avinash Bhondwe, president of Indian Medical Association (Maharashtra), on Thursday said that early detection is the key in the fight against Covid-19 and private testing can play an important role in this. “A section of the society can afford private testing for possible symptoms of novel coronavirus. Thus, the government should authorise private laboratories in adequate number for carrying out necessary tests. The screening at private labs can be made more reliable by laying down standard operating procedure,” he added. Bhondwe, however, said that rapid antibody tests carried out using blood samples of patients would not be of much help. “Rapid tests tend to show negative result in positive cases during the first week and therefore it can be misleading. The laboratories offering testing based on secretion samples of throat and nose can be useful,” he said. Senior pathologist Sachin Kale, who runs one of the few NABL-accredited labs in Marathwada, said that outbreak of Covid-19 is an unprecedented situation. “The Polymerase Chain Reaction (PCR) test carried out using throat swab samples can confirm the presence of Covid-19 during early days and rapid tests can be useful after one week or so. While it is challenging to establish a set up for PCR test during the period of current lockdown, there is no clarity on the part of government on carrying out rapid tests,” he said. Unmesh Talkalkar, director of CIIGMA hospital, offered a different view. “Hygiene etiquettes and social distancing could be effective weapons against Covid-19 instead of mass screening. The phobia associated with Covid-19 calls for the need of mass screening. The disease can be cured and mortality rate is not that high as compared to other pandemics witnessed in the history of mankind,” he said. Currently, swab samples from Latur and Osmanabad are sent to Solapur while that of other six districts from Marathwada are tested at Government Medical College and Hospital (GMCH) in Aurangabad. The government had announced a testing lab in Latur, but it is yet to be materialised.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/no-pvt-labs-for-covid-19-testing-in-marathwada/articleshow/75073238.cms||Prasad Joshi
April 10, 2020||Aurangabad||Drop in death rates, official data shows||AURANGABAD: Amid the Covid-19 outbreak across the country, official figures have revealed that the deaths recorded by the Aurangabad Municipal Corporation (AMC) show a drop in March as compared to January and February. Based on the permission issued for cremation and burial of dead bodies over the last three months, it has been found that the overall death rates have dropped in March. The figures of the municipal corporation state that 749 cremation or burial permissions were issued in January, 678 in February while only 637 crematorium or burial ground permissions were issued in March. Until April 8, the civic body had issued around 150 permissions for burial or cremations. Meanwhile, looking at the figures as per financial years, in 2018-19 city had witnessed 8,280 deaths and in 2019-2020 there were 8,305 deaths on record. As far as Covid-19 is concerned, the city has witnessed only one death so far. A 58-year-old man who died of the infection was also suffering with co-morbidities like hypertension, diabetes and ischemic heart disease, authorities said. Mayor Nandkumar Ghodele said that it is extremely important for people to follow the government guidelines by staying indoors and maintain social distancing while delivering or using essential services. He, however, said that dissemination of incorrect information over social media or falling prey to unverified information is making it difficult for authorities to manage and contain the spread of the virus.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/drop-in-death-rates-official-data-shows/articleshow/75073243.cms||---
April 10, 2020||Pune||Two-day lockdown in Dehu road starts today||PIMPRI CHINCHWAD: The Dehu Road police will implement a complete lockdown within its limits on Friday and Saturday. The residents would have to take prior permission from the police to go out for purchasing essential goods or other emergencies. “A Covid-19 positive case was reported at Chikhali in Pimpri Chinchwad recently. The area borders Dehu Road. Keeping this in mind and also the recent spurt in Covid-19 cases elsewhere, a meeting was held on Wednesday and the decision on the two-day lockdown was taken,” senior inspector Manish Kalyankar of the Dehu Road police told TOI. The officer said the shops selling essential goods would remain open, but people would have to take prior permission over call before heading out. “Four drones will be deployed to keep a check on lockdown violators. Teams will be deployed at all important chowks to stop non-essential movement,” Kalyankar added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/2-day-lockdown-in-dehu-rd-starts-today/articleshow/75073938.cms||Siddharth Gaikwad
April 10, 2020||Hyderabad||Officials: No hotspot in Sec’bad yet||Secunderabad: The steady rise of coronavirus cases in Secunderabad Cantonment has put officials and residents in worry. Recently, a retired cop at Rasoolpura tested positive for coronavirus. SCB officials claim that the number of Covid-19 cases are in single-digits.“If many Covid-19 cases have been identified in one area, then, the area will be announced as a hotspot, but we have not faced such a situation,” SCB senior superintendent (SWM), M Devender told TOI. Till now, three Covid-19 cases have been identified, one each at Rasoolpura, Karkhana and Mahendra Hills.. In Karkhana, an auto driver is still in quarantine at Chest Hospital. Seven others who came in contact with him are also in quarantine. In Mahendra Hills, a youth, who was found positive for the virus, has been discharged from Gandhi Hospital and is recovering. “Though SCB has not declared hotspots in these areas, protective measures have been taken at the surrounding residential colonies,” said an SCB official.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/officials-no-hotspot-in-secbad-yet/articleshow/75073978.cms||---
April 10, 2020||Pune||APMC to close Gultekdi facilty from Friday till further notice||PUNE: The Agricultural Produce Market Committee (APMC) here on Thursday decided to close the Gultekdi Market Yard, barring the wholesale grocery section, from Friday till further notice. The decision was taken after a demand to this effect by the association of commission agents in the market and protests by tempo drivers, many of whom live in the sealed containment zones. APMC officials said this could have an immediate impact on the demand and supply of vegetables fruits in the city. “But we had to take the decision considering the current situation and the agents’ and workers’ demands. A majority of our staffers and workers live in the sealed areas and it would be difficult to run the market smoothly,” APMC’s chief administrator Balasaheb Deshmukh told TOI. The grocery section will continue to operate in a regulated manner, while APMC will ensure there is supply of vegetables, onion, potato and fruits through the five sub-markets across the city, another official said. “The sub-markets at Moshi, Pimpri, Uttamnagar and Khadki will function normally, while the Manjari sub-market may operate in phases to ensure supply to the city,” the official said. “People need not panic,” Nitin Raskar, head of the market yard’s grocery section, said, adding, “We have been getting an adequate supply of grains, pulses, edible oil and other items over the past few days. Stores across the city have adequate stock. There should be no price escalation.” Datta Kalamkar, head of APMC’s vegetables, onion and potato division, said, “Meeting the city’s requirement would be a challenge, considering the anticipated demand and supply mismatch. If the situation improves by April 14, the market may open again.” Fruit section head Babasaheb Bibave said the supply of fruits too may be affected.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/apmc-to-close-gultekdi-facilty-from-friday-till-further-notice/articleshow/75073952.cms||---
April 10, 2020||Nashik||Govind Nagar: 7 test negative; one new suspect sent to isolation||NASHIK: The health teams of Nashik Municipal Corporation (NMC) continued their door-to-door survey in containment areas of Manohar Nagar – a part of Govind Nagar area of the city – on the third consecutive day. On Thursday, throat swab samples of 10 out of 17 people from Govind Nagar area tested negative on Wednesday, while the reports of the remaining 7 people came on Thursday. They too have tested negative for Covid-19. During the door-to-door survey on Thursday, the teams found one Covid-19 suspect, who has now been sent to the isolation ward of Zakir Hussain Hospital. The throat swab sample of the suspect has also been collected and sent for testing. The civic body had sealed an area of 3-km radius from the Sumangal housing society in Manohar Nagar for 14 days from Tuesday after a resident of the housing society tested positive for Covid-19 on Monday. A total of 22 teams, including three members each, have been deployed to carry out the door-to-door survey. On Thursday, 1,249 houses with 4,233 people living in them were checked by the civic health teams. The NMC has so far surveyed of total 3,439 houses in the past three days covering a total population of around 12,000.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/govind-nagar-7-test-ve-one-new-suspect-sent-to-isolation/articleshow/75073250.cms||Tushar Pawar
April 10, 2020||Bhopal||Farmers in a fix as standing crops face fire threat in MP||BHOPAL: Farmers across Madhya Pradesh are waging a battle to save their standing crops on many fronts. Earlier they had to deal with standing crops waiting to be harvested during the lockdown period due to the Covid-19 pandemic and now they have to face the threat of fire. A large number of incidents have taken place in different parts of the state where standing crops were burnt to ashes. Rising temperatures and faults in the electricity lines passing over the fields have been attributed as the causes of these fire. After delayed sowing, unseasonal rainfall had delayed the crop cutting. Now labourers are not available for cutting the crops due to ongoing corona -lockdown. Meanwhile, fires in the fields have added to farmers’ woes . There were four cases of fire where standing crops were completely damaged in Singrapur village of Damoh district. The affected farmers - Rajkumar Choudhary, Vikrant Choudhary and Ghanshyam Vishwakarma -said that the fire took place because of the sparking from the electricity supply lines over their fields. In Chhatarpur district, more than 25 such cases have been reported in the last one week. Similar cases are on the rise in Vindhya Pradesh and Chambal as well. “Dry wheat plants works like fuel and catches fire very fast,” said Shiv Kumar Sharma alias Kakka ji, a vocal farmer leader of Madhya Pradesh and added, “The government must resolve the issue immediately.” Rizwan Khan, a big farmer of Bhopal, said, “ We have our harvester ready and parked in the village. But I need to travel 20 kilometres from my home in the Old city to Bangarasia to supervise the crop cutting. I’m waiting for administration’s permission to get out of my house.” “The sub divisional magistrates say they have permitted farmers to cut the crop but the cops are implementing the lockdown, and stop everyone who is coming out. Agriculture department seems to be a mute witness. The issue has become even more complicated in the absence of an agriculture minister”, a senior bureaucrat lamented, requesting anonymity. Avnish Rawat , an SDM in Chhatarpur, however, said, “We have allowed the farmers to cut the crop by maintaining social distancing.” When told that cops are not allowing farmers to harvest crops, he said, “ Let me talk to them”.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/farmers-in-a-fix-as-standing-crops-face-fire-threat-in-mp/articleshow/75073259.cms||Deshdeep Saxena
April 10, 2020||Kolkata||‘Christ’s mandate will help get rid of coronavirus scare’||KOLKATA: In this existential crisis, the biggest challenge is service to humanity, following the mandate that Christ gave at the Passover Festival before the Last Supper: this was the refrain on both the online services conducted by Bishop Paritosh Canning, head of the Diocese of Kolkata (Church of North India) and Archbishop Thomas DSouza, head of the archdiocese of Kolkata (Roman Catholic Church). The day got its name, Maundy Thursday, for Jesus’s mandate of service, humility and love for others, explained the two church heads. Before the celebratory supper, Jesus washed and towelled his disciples’ feet in an act of servitude. “If we can follow the Christ’s mandate, we will be able to rid humanity of all sufferings, even the novel coronavirus scare,” Canning said. With churches being shut, all important services in this Holy Week are being held online. This helped over 1 lakh parishioners of the two churches connect and pray. “We can’t go to churches like other years and so, we are giving spiritual communion from a distance. This is bound to give you freedom from the virus, too,” Bishop Canning said. Archbishop DSouza compared the service that Jesus mandated for yeoman’s service to that given by doctors and nurses now. Vicar-general Dominic Gomes said he received congratulatory messages for the online masses. Bishop Canning’s Good Friday service will start at noon and Archbishop DSouza’s at 3pm.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/christs-mandate-will-help-get-rid-of-coronavirus-scare/articleshow/75073964.cms||Jhimli Mukherjee Pandey
April 10, 2020||Aurangabad||Water woes intensify as tanker drivers refuse work in Aurangabad||AURANGABAD: Advance payment too has not been able to guarantee water supply for most residents in the no-pipeline areas of the city. This is beacuse tanker drivers are not willing to work amid the coronavirus scare. However, tankers belonging to several politicos are getting free water from elevated storage reservoirs (ESRs). Some say that these politicos are focusing on their prospective voters in view of the civic body elections. Sets of 15 to 20 families in no-pipeline areas pool in Rs 1,100 each for every three months and get water tankers from the Aurangabad Municipal Corporaions (AMC). Each tanker is supposed to supply 200 litre water to every family on alternate days. The residents are required to pay in advance for the tanker service. However, many tanker drivers have refused to work now. As a result, residents dependent on water tankers in Vishranti Nagar and Vijay Nagar are getting tanker supply once in 4 days. According to Shahar Parivartan Aghadi activist Rahul Ingle, this administrative apathy is forcing people to step out during the lockdown. In addition, it has been seen that many politicos are getting free water from ESRs and the water is supplied to the residents of particular wards. The term of current civic body ends on April 29. However, the scheduled elections have been put off due to Covid-19. The elections are, therefore, expected to be held in the winter. Ingle said if the private suppliers want to supply water to residents, they must be asked to pay. When asked, AMC executive engineer Kiran Dhande said some tanker drivers have stopped supplying water due to the coronavirus scare. “We are trying to convince them. But in the meantime, we are asking the other drivers to double their trips to cover all the areas,” he said. Responding to queries about private tankers getting water for free, Dhande said he is not aware of such activities, but will look into the matter. Tap water supply disrupted Water works executive engineer Kiran Dhande said that over the past few days, there have been power outages at the Jayakwadi, Dhorkin and Nakshatrawadi along the water supply scheme of the Aurangabad Municipal Corporation (AMC). As a result, the supply schedule in the city is affected. “We have experienced malfunction in our pump houses due to power fluctuations. The Shahgunj and Jinsi ESRs, which are at the end of the supply network, are facing an additional lag of two days due to the disruptions,” Dhande said. The engineer at the Cidco N-5 ESR also stated that the water supply to Cidco areas may also be affected and a day’s gap in schedule is expected. The AMC is already supplying water to the different wards once in 5 to 6 days.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/water-woes-intensify-as-tanker-drivers-refuse-work/articleshow/75073262.cms||Arpita Sharad
April 10, 2020||Goa||Goa flouts all safety norms in training for Covid survey||PANAJI: It was more of social mingling on Thursday at the training sessions by the state government for its staff and teachers for the three-day door-to-door health survey from April 13, as people were herded into crowded rooms putting hundreds of lives at risk. From teachers being called in from maternity leave to random allotment of work, they questioned the entire purpose of the Covid-19 survey and the training for it—which was to teach them to operate an app. “There was no social distancing maintained. We did not know the travel history of the person next to us,” president of the All Goa Secondary School Teachers’ Association Dattatraya Naik said. Most of them who attended the training were neither given masks nor hand sanitisers for conducting the survey. They even feared that in the absence of proper protocols being followed, they may end up contracting the virus and spreading it by going door to door.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/state-flouts-all-safety-norms-in-training-for-covid-survey/articleshow/75074340.cms||---
April 10, 2020||Goa||Goa: Police seek religious heads’ help to dissuade sharing of ‘fake posts’||PANAJI: Goa Police held a meeting with religious leaders from across the state to ask them to advice youth not to post or share fake news on social media in view of Covid-19 pandemic. Speaking to TOI, superintendent of police Shobit Saxena said that police requested religious leaders to inform youth not to put up posts that could lead to communal tension. After the meeting, police recorded the video messages of these religious leaders and uploaded them on the Goa police Twitter handle, DGP_Goa. Saxena said that in the video message, religious heads and leaders have appealed to people not to come out of their houses to celebrate festivals and cautioned them to remain at home. Police said this meeting was a trust-building exercise and to avoid any misunderstanding during the lockdown. Police advised people to exercise restraint in posting content on social media. Police said that there were instances when old video clips had been morphed and projected as related to current events, particularly of police beating certain individuals. “Such content has the potential to cause disaffection among communities and tear at the social fabric of the country. Certain individuals have been identified and warned to be careful in the future. Any repetition of such conduct would invite penal action,” police said. Police also said that people are advised to verify the authenticity of the content, which can be easily done online on Google by typing out the keywords of such unverified posts.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/police-seek-religious-heads-help-to-dissuade-sharing-of-fake-posts/articleshow/75074348.cms||---
April 10, 2020||Goa||GCA’s new move: online chess||Panaji: After successfully conducting two online blitz chess tournaments —national and state level -- Goa Chess Association will continue to conduct such tournaments to keep players busy when everything has come to a standstill following the coronavirus pandemic. Roopa Belurkar, president of Queens Chess and Cultural Club, along with husband Sanjay Belurkar, executive member, GCA, took up the challenge to host a three-minute game tournament on Friday. Buoyed by its initial success, the pair organised state level tournament. “We have been active in organising tournaments. However, with the lockdown, we figured out this is the best way to go about,” said Roopa. They started spreading the word through social media and received an overwhelming response with 187 entries for last week’s tournament. “The money earned from the tournaments will be donated to Goa State Covid-19 Relief Fund, while Goa players will be given a free entry as we want our players to flourish,” said GCA secretary Kishor Bandekar. The association has tied up with experienced international arbiter Anandh Babu VL from Tamil Nadu. “We had conducted a small-scale online tournament before but not like this one. We took a brave step and things fell in place as we have necessary experience and online platform to conduct such tournaments. We also have anti-cheating software which detects any wrongdoing, so any apprehension regarding false play is ruled out,” said Babu, who also worked as a chief arbiter at the Goa Grand Master Chess. The novelty of the tournament is not only playing but learning from other games too. Once the tournament is over, all games are available online to study moves and learn. According to organisers, the number of participants are growing with each tournament and players are studying moves from all over India. “It is a different experience to conduct such novel tournaments. In a standard tournament, we need volunteers, venue, tables, stop-clocks and whole other logistics requirements, while online require us to be on the computer all the time. “We need few hours to pair players, check their Fide identities and registration after receiving entries. We are glad to play our part for the betterment of the game in Goa,” said Sanjay. GCA president and power minister Nilesh Cabral has nothing but words of praise for the organisers. “It was a good effort from our people to do something like this. I am happy to have such trustworthy volunteers who came forward and found a way to keep things running. We would like to keep it going and get better and better,” Cabral said. The next tournament will be held on Friday. Those interested can obtain more details from Anandh Babu (9894278402).||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/gcas-new-move-online-chess/articleshow/75068359.cms||---
April 10, 2020||Pune||Market off limits for vendors from sealed areas, Pune residents in the lurch||PUNE: The APMC on Thursday announced that the entry of vegetable vendors, transporters and buyers from the sealed areas in the city to the wholesale market would be barred. The Agriculture Produce Market Committee’s (APMC) decision has further affected supplies in the sealed localities, causing residents to run from pillar to post for vegetables. Vegetable vendors and residents in the sealed areas were unable to get supplies, with some residents contemplating venturing out of the localities to get the day’s supplies. A resident tweeted, “Humble request in Kondhwa area of Pune being sealed off since 2 days. We are facing vegetables, fruit and groceries shortage especially with kids at home.” Another resident in Kondhwa said, “We have no vegetables at home, because the vendors have been barred from visiting Gultekdi to get their supplies.” Another resident told TOI that vegetable vendors have been barred from entering the ‘mandi’ and upon reaching Market Yard, they are questioned about the area they have come from. “When the vendors reveal that they are from one of the sealed areas, their entry into the wholesale market is bared. On Thursday, we had no vegetables at home and I had to step out. But all vegetable vendors were closed. Upon moving a little bit, I saw a grocery chain that had by then run out of most vegetables. All I could manage to get from there was 250gm of onion and capsicum,” said Neena S, a resident from Kondhwa. Vitthal Hanamgar, a vegetable vendor on NIBM Road, said, “Since I am from Kondhwa, I was allowed to enter the wholesale market on Thursday. I don’t know how people will manage to get the daily supplies of vegetables in the sealed areas.” Tejaram Parjapati, another vegetable vendor from the area, said, “I closed my shop because I had nothing to give to the customers. I was constantly getting phone calls from customers. However, I had to tell them that there was nothing on offer.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/market-off-limits-for-vendors-from-sealed-areas-residents-in-the-lurch/articleshow/75073970.cms||---
April 10, 2020||Nashik||Fever clinics at 17 locations in Nashik to segregate patients||NASHIK: The Nashik Municipal Corporation (NMC) has set up fever clinics at 17 locations to segregate patients with different diseases. Patients suffering from malaria, typhoid and other fevers will be tested here and segregated from suspected Covid-19 cases. In the case of suspected coronavrus cases, the additional procedure will be followed. These clinics have been set up at the primary health centres and other locations in the city, said the civic officials. “We are also planning on increasing the number of fever clinics in the city. Our objective is to facilitate the treatment of people with other disease and find out the Covid-19 cases,” said an NMC official. Those with Covid-19-like symptoms are to be isolated and sent to the Zakir Hussein hospital, which is the only Covid-19 hospital. The non-coronavirus patients are to be sent to other hospitals of the municipal corporation for treatment. TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/fever-clinics-at-17-locations-in-nashik-to-segregate-patients/articleshow/75073270.cms||Tushar Pawar
April 10, 2020||Hubballi||KU holds online training programme||Dharwad: March normally witnesses a number of conferences and seminars organized by universities and educational institutions, mostly to ensure that the funds allocated by UGC and government is utilized before the end of the financial year. However, the Covid-19 lockdown resulted in cancellation of the events they had planned for the month. The department of economics in Karnatak University organized a weeklong training programme on “Application of Econometrics in Social Science Research” in the first week of April – of course without violating the lockdown restrictions. It was held online with experts, teachers and students participating from their homes. At the valedictory session on Tuesday, Professor Madheshwaram, director of Institute for Social and Economic Change, Bengaluru, said the usage of econometric tool in social sciences research, particularly in economics, is imperative to produce qualitative research, understand this complex economy and address the typical problems that are faced day-to-day. He said that the errors in social science research can be minimised by applying suitable techniques and produce quality research. He advised the students to make use of the lockdown period to understand various tools of econometrics. Acting vice-chancellor of Karnatak University T M Bhaskar said that modern technology has a key role in improving the quality of higher education in India. Professor R R Biradar said that improving the research skills among students is the need of the hour to enhance the quality of higher education.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hubballi/ku-holds-online-training-programme/articleshow/75061637.cms||---
April 10, 2020||Goa||Air India flies 910kg medical supplies to Goa||Panaji: An Air India Lifeline Udaan flight transported 910kg of essential medical supplies for Goa in the fight against the novel coronavirus on Thursday, said Airports Authority of India officials. An Air India ATR aircraft brought essential supplies such as masks, sanitisers, PPE, medicines and other medical equipment which had been sent through the office of the resident commissioner of Goa. “The flight was due to land at 5.10pm but was delayed. There were 105 consignments of which 570kg was of medical equipment, PPE and medicines,” said Goa airport director Gagan Malik. Given the importance of the cargo, AAI officials at Goa International Airport ensured that all the cargo was swiftly cleared for transportation to the state health department. The Union civil aviation ministry launched Lifeline Udan to transport essential medical cargo amid the lockdown.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/air-india-flies-910kg-medical-supplies-to-goa/articleshow/75074351.cms||---
April 10, 2020||Nashik||Masks made mandatory for citizens while stepping out in Nashik||NASHIK: After Mumbai, Thane and Pune, authorities in Nashik have made wearing masks mandatory for citizens while stepping out of their homes. This new rule has come into effect from Thursday in the police commissionerate’s jurisdiction. Citizens will now have to wear masks in public places. Masks are mandatory even when one is moving around in his or her personal vehicles. Commissioner of police Vishwas Nangare Patil took this decision as part of preventive measures to curb the spread of Covid-19. Legal action will be taken against those who are found moving around the city without a mask. Patil has also issued an order in the public interest, which said that masks should be certified or home-made and a person found not wearing a mask outside his or her home will be booked under section 188 (disobedience of order duly promulgated by a public servant) of the Indian Penal Code. Punishment under this section is minimum of six months imprisonment. This applies to citizens and all government officials. Nashik city reported the first Covid-19 patient from the Sumangal housing society in Manohar Nagar, Govind Nagar, on Monday evening. The numbers of Covind-19 suspects are increasing gradually in the city. Some parts of the city are densely populated and, therefore, are more at risk of coronavirus spread. As per WHO guidelines and medical experts, it is essential to wear masks, gloves and use sanitizers to prevent the spread. Mayor Satish Kulkarni on Wednesday visited the slum areas of Bharat Nagar and Shivaji Wadi in the city to review the cleanliness measures taken by the health department. Kulkarni instructed the health department officials to disinfect the slum areas.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/masks-made-mandatory-for-citizens-while-stepping-out/articleshow/75073289.cms||Tushar Pawar
April 10, 2020||Bhopal||Jabalpur’s 9th +ve patient travelled with 67 people||Jabalpur: The ninth coronavirus patient of Jabalpur had taken a flight from Hyderabad to Jabalpur and the administration is tracking the co-passengers as well as local people who came in contact with the patient. The patient concerned is a 61-year-old retired employee of a PSU. Chief medical and health officer, Dr Manish Mishra, said, “A 61-year old has been tested positive on Wednesday. He had travelled from Hyderabad to Jabalpur in a flight, a total of 67 co-passengers who travelled with him have been identified and have been asked to remain in home quarantine.”“For the passengers who were from other districts, the respective district collectors have been informed,” he said. “When the patient fell ill, he was admitted to a local hospital where he had come into contact with the doctor treating him was well as the other employees of the hospital,” Mishra added. “All have been put under home quarantine. The patient’s wife works in local branch of a bank, the branch concerned has been closed as she had been put under quarantine,” he said. “Apart from it, we had sent all the relatives and employees of the patient who had come into contact with him to home quarantine. Extensive ever survey is being conducted in the entire locality where the maid of the patient lives and she has also been put under home quarantine,” Mishra said. It is noteworthy that the first Covid-19 case was reported in Jabalpur on March 20, when four patients tested positive in the city. Later, four others who had come into contact with the initial patients also tested positive. However, so far, four of them have recovered and were discharged from hospital. In the past 10 days, no new positive cases were reported, till the 11th day on Wednesday when a new case was reported in the city, said sources.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/jabalpurs-9th-ve-patient-travelled-with-67-people/articleshow/75073295.cms||---
April 10, 2020||Goa||Goa: Congress MLAs pledge 30% pay for relief||PANAJI: Taking a cue from BJP MLAs, Congress legislators on Thursday announced that they would donate 30% of their annual salary to the chief minister’s relief fund. “All five CLP members will give 30% of their salaries for the next one year to the Chief Minister’s Relief Fund to fight against the Covid-19 pandemic,” said opposition leader Digambar Kamat. Independent MLA Rohan Khaunte also announced that he would give his entire salary for the next three months. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/cong-mlas-pledge-30-pay-for-relief/articleshow/75074353.cms||---
April 10, 2020||Hyderabad||Why aren’t infected given free treatment, asks Telangana high court||HYDERABAD: The Telangana high court gave eight days to both state and central governments to reply to a PIL that sought free treatment to Covid-19 patients. The court had already asked why Rs 4,500 is charged for each coronavirus test by private hospitals and why the service was not made free. A bench headed by Chief Justice Raghavendra Singh Chauhan on Thursday asked the state and central governments about their stand on free treatment to all the coronavirus-affected persons and sought replies from by April 17, the next date of hearing. Sitting along with Justice T Amarnath Goud, the CJ enquired with the advocates representing the state and central governments whether they were aware of a circular issued by the Insurance Regulatory and Development Authority (IRDA) bringing the treatment for Covid-19 patients under insurance cover. None of them said they were not aware of it. In fact, the bench converted a letter written by advocate P Thirumala Rao into a PIL. Rao, in his letter, expressed apprehensions over reports that certain private hospitals were authorised to conduct Covid-19 diagnostic tests at Rs 4,500 per person and wanted the court to direct the state and the Centre to do it for free. In the meantime, the Supreme Court directed the Centre to conduct these tests free of cost. The counsel informed the same to CJ Chauhan during the hearing of his plea on Thursday and wanted the bench to direct the governments to accord Covid-19 treatment also for free. Rao said IRDA had already brought Covid-19 under the insurance cover and hence it should be made clear to all the insurance companies to include Covid-19 in the existing insurance policies, referring to the circular issued in the beginning of March. “A direction to the Centre, insurance companies and IRDA to extend coverage to Covid-19 diagnosis and treatment to all the existing medical insurance policies will serve the purpose,” he said. “The state should bring it under Aarogyasri to cover the poor,” he added. Referring to the lack of awareness about IRDA circular, Thirumala Rao told TOI that it is the common fate of several welfare circulars. The CJ sought replies from the state and the Centre by April 17. Advocate general BS Prasad filed a counter, explaining the arrangements made by the state government to reach out to all the stranded labourers. “Rice and money are being given to more than three lakh stranded people though they do not possess any ration cards and address proofs here,” he said. “This is in addition to the rice and money being given to nearly one crore white ration card holders in the state,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/hc-why-arent-infected-given-free-treatment/articleshow/75073989.cms||---
April 10, 2020||Thiruvananthapuram||Lockdown revives arrack brewing in state||Thiruvananthapuram: With all outlets of Indian-made foreign liquor (IMFL) shut because of the lockdown and the inflow of ganja and other drugs also adversely affected due to the sealed borders, tipplers are returning to traditional method of manufacturing arrack, figures show. According to the figures of the excise department, the quantity of wash, which is the base for manufacturing arrack that is being confiscated from various parts of the state since March 24, the day when the lockdown began, till April 6, has steadily increased from 160 litres per day to 6,000 litres per day. The number of Abkari cases has also increased from 10 per day to 51 per day. The excise officials seized and destroyed 42,593 litres of wash in two weeks, which is more than double the quantity of wash being seized and destroyed on an average every month. Interestingly, the number of cases under narcotic and psychotropic substances act (NDPS) and the corresponding increase in confiscation of contrabands coming under the NDPS including ganja has been very less. The seizure of ganja since March 24 has only been in the range of few grams per day, except for a seizure of 10 kg on the second day of lockdown. Also, the manufacturing of spurious IMFL also was as good as nil in the two weeks. Except on April 2 when just two litres of spirit was seized from Thrissur, there was no case of seizure of spirit used for the manufacture of IMFL. Excise department officials said that the main reason behind this is the curtailed movement of vehicles, because of which the ‘traditional’ method of manufacturing is making a comeback. “It is being observed that the illicit brewing is on the rise and the excise department is focusing on this aspect. We are relying also on the data of those areas that has been traditionally under radar for illicit brewing as well as individuals who were earlier involved in illicit brewing of liquor,” excise commissioner S Aananthakrishnan said. As per the figures, Kozhikode, Kollam, Idukki, Alappuzha, Kannur and Thrissur are some of the districts where large quantity of wash was seized and destroyed from. Excise department sources said that many who had earlier implicated in arrack manufacturing cases are making a comeback using the situation. Also, the manufacturing of wash is comparatively an easy process, with all the resources available at the houses itself. “Yeast and jiggery are the basic ingredients and it is also being observed that jackfruits are also being added to this since it is the season of jackfruits now. The fermentation takes at least seven to 10 days, and some use chemicals from torch batteries to increase the speed of fermentation,” excise department sources added. The state had completely banned brewing of arrack in 1996, and the vacuum created after banning arrack was slowly replaced by IMFL through Bevco outlets. For Infograph (Date, NDPS cases, Abkari cases, Arrack seized in litre, Wash seized in litre) (March 24, 2, 10, 0, 160) (March 25, 3, 5, 0, 70) (March 26, 2, 9, 0.800, 545) (March 27, 2, 15, 48.500, 1605) (March 28, 2, 25, 8, 4220) (March 29, 1, 22, 19.500, 3100) (March 30, 2, 24, 9.750, 2494) (March 31, 5, 26, 9.800, 2010) (April 1, 2, 36, 31.300, 3227) (April 2, 1, 46, 26.800, 5276) (April 3, 4, 44, 20.800, 3950) (April 4, 4, 51, 31.200, 6042) (April 5, 1, 42, 15.950, 4514) (April 6, 4, 45, 27.600, 5380) ends...||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/thiruvananthapuram/lockdown-revives-arrack-brewing-in-state/articleshow/75072348.cms||---
April 10, 2020||Goa||First UK relief flight ferries 314 home||PANAJI: With 312 adults and two infants on board, the first of the special relief flights organised by the British government took off for Stansted airport, London, from Goa International Airport on Thursday. The passengers were British nationals who were stranded in Goa for more than three weeks. The UK government has arranged two more flights scheduled to leave from Goa in the next few days. Meanwhile, a relief flight from Russia that was scheduled to arrive in Goa on Thursday was cancelled at the last minute after the Russian government reportedly withdrew permission. A Ural Airlines flight was scheduled to land at Goa International Airport to evacuate Russian nationals in the state, and around 130 tourists stranded at Gokarna. “The lift off of the 19th relief flight from Goa Airport with 312 adults and two infants took place last night . Detailed screening and declaration forms were filled and social distancing was maintained,” said Goa International Airport director Gagan Malik. The UK government has roped in Titan Airways, an airline that specialises in repatriation flights, to ferry tourists stranded in the state. Over 3,000 foreigners have been repatriated to their home countries till date.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/1st-uk-relief-flight-ferries-314-home/articleshow/75074357.cms||---
April 10, 2020||Aurangabad||Aurangabad, rural police get mobile sanitizer vans||AURANGABAD: The city as well as rural police have independently come up with their respective mobile sanitizer vans for sanitising policemen posted at frontline as well as check posts. Considering the effectiveness of the idea, the police units of Mumbai, Wardha, Ratnagiri too have started similar vans for sanitizing policemen deployed at check posts, high risk zones as well as areas exposed to quarantined or Covid-19 positive patients. Aurangabad commissioner of police Chiranjeev Prasad said, “We found the idea to be very effective so we decided to implement it. We are doing everything possible to shield our men from getting infected by the deadly disease.” The city police have deployed a vehicle for the policemen on field for round-the-clock service starting from Wednesday. Aurangabad superintendent of police (rural) Mokshada Patil said that the van was deployed in the service of policemen from her unit on Thursday. Aurangabad rural police with 23 police stations is spread over in few hundred squad kilometers. Scores of policemen deployed at the check posts situated at far off places face the risk of getting infected from those entering Aurangabad from neighbouring districts. This van would even go to such distant locations for catering to the policemen on duty. Those privy to the project said that in a matter of few seconds, a person along with the uniform he/she is dawning, get sanitized with the help of high grade showers installed in the police van. Drums containing sanitizer have been installed in the van. The van is also equipped with a tap to ensure that whoever enters the van is first washing their hands for the prescribed time. “This has been done to ensure that the policemen while entering the vehicle should wash their hands, so that no one enters the vehicle or touches its surface with infected or soiled hands,” said an officer privy to the implementation of the project.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/city-rural-police-get-mobile-sanitizer-vans/articleshow/75073324.cms||---
April 10, 2020||Nagpur||MSMEs seek relief from Centre, states||Nagpur: MIDC Industries Association (MIA), Hingna has written a letter to Union minister Nitin Gadkari, seeking a relief package for micro, small and medium enterprises (MSMEs). The letter states that the return of normalcy in the near future looks difficult, and that the MSMEs of the entire country — and Maharashtra in particular — are going through a rough phase and need a relief package from the Centre and state governments for survival. The relief has been sought on bank interest on term loans, waiver of working capital for the next three months, deferment of easy monthly instalments (EMIs) of all lending institutions by six months (with no impact on credit ratings), and at least 50% advance on loans without additional collaterals. The other demands include extension of conditional provident fund (PF) for six months and relaxation of eligibility criteria for all the employees covered under Employees Provident Fund Organization (EPFO). Release of pending Centre and state government subsidies, 50% reimbursement of wages paid to all MSME employees for at least three months, and instructions to all big industries for release of pending payments to MSME on priority for better liquidity have been sought. A special relief package for industries manufacturing commodities listed under essential items has been demanded. Simplification and/or self-assessment of direct and indirect taxes for MSMEs having a turnover of less than Rs5 crores for the financial year 2020-21 (so as to reduce compliance costs) was also sought in the letter.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/msmes-seek-relief-from-centre-states/articleshow/75073573.cms||Ashish Roy
April 10, 2020||Hyderabad||Anganwadis to track lockdown’s psychological impact||Hyderabad: The state government has given detailed instructions to anganwadi workers and asked them to track psychological difficulties faced by workers during lockdown. The guidelines instruct ground staff to observe the psychological impact of lockdown on women, children, the aged and differently abled in particular. They have also been given special training to give suggestions to those who approach them. Sources in the government said a helpline would soon be launched to deal with these kinds of problems. Anganwadi workers were asked to tell pregnant women not to listen to Covid-19 news and that hospitals where they would be admitted will not have coronavirus patients. If there are any malnutrition problems among children, they need to be taken to hospital. If their condition is not serious, the anganwadi worker can suggest healthy diets. If there are any preschool level children at home, parents should be taught about storytelling and workbooks for children in the age group. Anganwadi staff have been asked to stay in touch with parents regularly. Since the children will not be allowed to go outside during lockdown, behavioural changes should be observed, they have been told. While taking all these measures, the ground staff should also take precautionary measures. While doing the survey they are not supposed to enter houses. While talking to people, they should wear masks and after finishing the survey, they should put to wash clothes worn during the day. In addition to this, workers have been asked to drink warm water regularly and follow certain Ayurvedic remedies as suggested by the Centre if they have cold and cough. If they still show symptoms, they should meet a doctor. The anganwadi staff hasve also been sentised on how they need to take utmost care in ensuring that they do not contract the infection as they will be interacting with a lot of people, including small children, throughout the lockdown period. They have also been instructed to inform people about good hygiene practices.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/anganwadis-to-track-lockdowns-psychological-impact/articleshow/75074003.cms||Sribala Vadlapatla
April 10, 2020||Thiruvananthapuram||Food, shelter or surveillance, LSGD gets job done||Thiruvananthapuram: As Kerala made the most of the lockdown to slow down Covid-19 transmission rates and flatten the curve, the local self-government department delivered 28 lakh food packets in 14 days and housed 3.2 lakh guest labourers in over 18,000 camps supplying them with food and provisions since March 27. An average of 1.5-2.5 lakh food packets were readied and distributed from 1,259 community kitchens functioning across 1,034 local bodies in the state. Kerala has had over 1.5 lakh persons under self-isolation for the past one week and the health department owes it to field-level surveillance teams, led by local bodies, in ensuring compliance with quarantine norms. LSGD constituted 19,352 ward-level committees which in turn deployed nearly 3 lakh volunteers on the field who along with Asha workers and health staff checked on persons under quarantine and kept a tab on signs of influenza-like illnesses in their respective areas. When the nationwide lockdown was announced, challenges were aplenty for the new LSGD leadership. Armed with disaster management plans and early preparations for Janakeeya hotels which was announced in the state budget, the local bodies were directed to run a mission which has to go on non-stop and the tasks included preparation of data on vulnerable communities, field-level surveillance, cooking and distribution of food to the needy, co-ordinating with health and labour departments for identification of guest labourers and arranging shelters for them. Unlike the activities of local bodies during the floods, the team was keen on instilling a sense of acknowledgement and recognition from the top which reflected in the activities on the ground. “During the floods, it was mostly ruling committees which took upon tasks because there was no co-ordinated mission at the administrative level. Now the Covid mission works as a whole and every single activity is being documented and recognized,’’ an LSGD official said. “We started off with an advantage because for the first time we had over 800 plus disaster management plans ready in local bodies. Basic works like mapping of vulnerable communities, identification of infrastructure related to health have already been done. The challenge was to co-ordinate everything on a virtual platform due to lockdown. We formed WhatsApp groups at the grassroots level especially among Kudumbashree members. All messages were promptly passed on and even as issues cropped up we were able to resolve them,’’ said Sarada Muraleedharan, principal secretary, LSGD. The department also keeps track of grievances from shelters housing guest labourers. “We are also in the process of preparing their database for different states. We are getting queries from other states regarding their wellbeing and we have been able to answer them satisfactorily,’’ said Sarada. A major chunk of the food packets was distributed at homes using a group of volunteers put together solely for this purpose. When there were cases of ineligible persons misusing community kitchens, LSGD gave fresh instructions to prioritize food distribution to the needy ones. A total of 44,033 lunch packets were given at Rs 20 per meal in four days till April 8 and free food was given to 1.03 lakh needy persons through Janakeeya hotels. As speculation rises over extension of lockdown, questions are raised on whether LSGD can sustain the momentum. “We are good to go. Adequate arrangements have been made for funding and we have never felt scarcity of human resource. Besides we make use of technology for data analysis which give us a clear picture of what lies ahead,’’ said Sarada. ENDS||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/thiruvananthapuram/food-shelter-or-surveillance-lsgd-gets-job-done/articleshow/75072363.cms||Aswin J Kumar
April 10, 2020||Goa||‘Can only pay min wage if govt does not pitch in’||Panaji: Goa’s industrial sector will find it difficult to pay full wages for the entire lockdown period but has agreed to pay out the minimum wages across all job roles, Goa Chamber of Commerce and Industry (GCCI) said on Thursday. During a meeting with chief minister Pramod Sawant, GCCI said that the private sector would pay 50% of the wages if the government was willing to pay the other half. “This lockdown has further impacted almost all sectors of the economy in the state and most business establishments are today struggling to survive. Given that the world economy is impacted by the pandemic, most businesses will take at least three to six months beyond the lockdown period to recover,” GCCI president Manoj Caculo said. Caculo along with GCCI secretary Yatin Kakodkar met Sawant to inform him that entrepreneurs were finding it increasingly difficult and, in some cases, impossible to comply with the government’s directive that workers’ wages must continue to be paid. “In case the government is unable to pay 50% of the wages, all establishments should be allowed to pay only the minimum wages and the government should give complete freedom to the private sector to impose salary cuts or defer payments. GCCI has also suggested that companies be allowed to defer a maximum of 25% of the gross take home pay of all staff for April, May and June and that the amount could be paid in the later months. The industry representatives also informed the CM that vigilantes were preventing employees who have been asked to report to work, from leaving their homes.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/can-only-pay-min-wage-if-govt-does-not-pitch-in/articleshow/75074361.cms||---
April 10, 2020||Hyderabad||RGIA donates food to migrant workers in city||Hyderabad: The GMR Hyderabad International Airport Ltd (GHIAL) has started distribution of freshly cooked food packets among the city’s migrant workers. As part of the initiative, being carried out in coordination with the Greater Hyderabad Municipal Corporation (GHMC), the airport is offering 1,000 packets – 500 for lunch and 500 for dinner – to labourers living in the Shastripuram area. The drive will continue till April 14. “The process is being facilitated by the GMRE Group’s Corporate Social Responsibility arm and GMR Varalakshmi Foundation,” a GHAIL said in a statement. “With neither money in their hands nor any shelter available during the current lockdown, the migrant labourers are the most affected during these tumultuous times. Recognizing the important role played by these labourers in nation building and in keeping the economy running, GHIAL believes that it is our society’s combined civic duty to support them in their hour need,” the GHAIL said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/rgia-donates-food-to-migrant-workers-in-city/articleshow/75073361.cms||---
April 10, 2020||Aurangabad||Youth booked for assaulting traffic cop in Aurangabad, two others arrested||AURANGABAD: Two people have been arrested in a case related to the assault of a traffic police constable on Thursday morning. Two others have been booked and a 17-year-old has been detained. The dispute allegedly took place around 12.30pm when Shahzeb, 23, was heading towards a pharmacy on Anna Bhau Sathe Crossroad near the district collectorate. According to him, he was riding his two-wheeler past some policemen when one of them hit him with his baton. Shahzeb was injured near the eye and the wound started bleeding. He stopped his vehicle and returned to question the policemen but they insisted they had not hit him. Shahzeb then called up his brother Shahrukh, who, along with their father, arrived at the spot. A video taken at the scene shows a heated argument taking place. Shahrukh and a traffic constable almost come to blows but are separated by the father and women constables present at the spot. The video, which went viral, shows the traffic policeman hitting Shahzeb on the leg with his baton. The youth, in turn, snatches the baton and hits the cop. The video also shows that though there were nine policemen present at the spot, including an assistant inspector, only the female constables intervened and rescued the traffic cop. Shaikh Farooq (50) and his son Shahrukh, residents of Rauza Baugh area, have been arrested. Aurangabad commissioner of police Chiranjeev Prasad said, “We will not tolerate attacks on government servants. Two people have been arrested and the strictest possible action is being initiated.” Based on the complaint lodged by the assistant inspector, the suspects have been slapped with sections of the IPC including 353 (using criminal force to deter a government employee from performing his duty), 332 (voluntarily causing hurt to deter public servant from his duty), 333 (voluntarily causing grievous hurt to a government employee discharging his duty), 337 (committing an act so rashly or negligently as to endanger human life, or the personal safety of others), 143 (unlawful assembly) and 147 (rioting). The offence has been registered with the City Chowk police station. Deputy commissioner of police (zone-II) Nikesh Khatmode-Patil said, “As per preliminary reports, an injured youth blamed the traffic cop for hitting him. The allegation has been refuted. We are carrying out a detailed probe into the incident.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/youth-booked-for-assaulting-traffic-cop-2-others-arrested/articleshow/75073353.cms||Mohammed Akhef
April 10, 2020||Gurgaon||Italian beats Covid-19, dies of heart attack in Gurugram||GURUGRAM: She came to visit India with some fellow Italians, fell ill during the trip, survived a five-week-long battle against the novel coronavirus, but tragically, died of a heart attack on Thursday, two days before heading back home. Marrela Ferillo, a 79-year-old woman from Rome, was among the 14 Italians who were admitted to Medanta Medicity on March 4. The tourists, who had returned to Delhi after a trip to Rajasthan and three other states, were among the first reported cases of Covid-19 in the country. Ferillo was the last patient left to be released from the hospital. “We had discharged 11 Italian patients on March 23 and another two on April 1 after they recovered. Ferillo had turned negative for Covid-19, after which we decided to send her home by an air ambulance on Saturday. However, she suffered a heart attack on Thursday morning and passed away at 11.55am,” said Dr Sushila Kataria, an intensive care expert who leads Medanta’s Covid response team. The senior doctor said the Italian woman’s lungs had been badly damaged. Moreover, she had also developed bacterial infection in the blood after suffering from coronavirus. “We tried really hard to save her but could not due to her age and poor lung condition. My team members and I are saddened by her death. We were working day and night for her recovery,” Dr Kataria. The Italian is survived by two daughters (one of them is a doctor in Rome), a son and her grandchildren, all currently in Italy, Dr Kataria told TOI. “She used to teach politics in Nigeria and stayed there for 10-11 years. She was educated and well-read. She would often apologise for ‘bringing the virus’ to a hugely populated country like ours,” the doctor said. Ferillo had arrived in India on February 20. This was her first visit. After spending over a month and a half in the hospital, she had been looking forward to returning home, Dr Kataria said. “She was on ventilator for the past 24 days. A day before she passed away, I made a video call to her son and daughter. Ferillo looked at them and her facial expression changed. It was a tough time for the family,” the doctor said. Ferillo’s last rites will be conducted in Delhi by the Italian embassy, which will hold a mass on Sunday, she added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/gurgaon/italian-survives-battle-with-covid-dies-of-heart-attack/articleshow/75074365.cms||Ipsita Pati
April 10, 2020||Kochi||Kasaragod on a mission to detether its Covid-19 hotspots||KOCHI: The authorities in Kasaragod are attempting to emulate the Bhilwara model of Covid-19 containment by ensuring a total shutdown campaign for the past three weeks. The entire district of Kasaragod has come to a standstill. Seven villages – Eriyal, Chengala, Vidyanagar, Thalangara, Melparamba, Bekal and Mogral – have been converted into Covid-19-containment zones (CCZs). Officials describe the CCZs as ‘open prisons’ where police are donning the role of delivery boys. “Bhilwara had around 30 cases while we are dealing with 157 cases,” said Kochi (city) commissioner IG Vijay Sakhare, who has been deployed as Covid-containment special officer at Kasaragod. “We have created seven landlocked islands to restrict possible spread from these locations. I believe that we will have turned it around by the end of lockdown. I am expecting the numbers to be below 200. We were able to stop the spread at the secondary stage,” he added. The process began with heavy police deployment and roadblocks at hotspots around Kasaragod town and areas such as Madhur and Chengala. “When I was sent here on 23rd (March) night, Kasaragod was a place without lockdown. So, we formulated a strategy and first shut the borders to Kannur and Karnataka. Then we identified 110 places in the district and erected roadblocks to separate village from village and town from town,” said Sakhare. After blocking the entry and exit to CCZs, the police flew drones and anyone found violating lockdown was arrested. “We ensured that essential commodities are delivered to home of residents by our force so they won’t have to step out, unless it is for a hospital emergency, that too only if online consultations were not enough,” said Sakhare. And police took to the delivery system like pros. Sakhare claimed the policemen have been delivering essentials faster than regular delivery agents. “We started delivery service at the containment zones a week ago and now we have extended it to the entire district. There are two numbers: 9497935780 and 9497980940, you simply have to send the list of items you need as an audio, video or text message and the police will bring it to your doorsteps. Rest assured, ‘Amazing Kasaragod’ Police Home Delivery Service is faster than that of any delivery giant,” he said. As a result, lockdown violations have reduced drastically. “If 100 persons were out on day one, we managed to bring it down to five in two days. Later on, we brought the delivery service and now the lockdown is complete, except for those with a medical emergency,” added the senior cop.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/kasaragod-on-a-mission-to-detether-its-hotspots/articleshow/75072392.cms||---
April 10, 2020||Ranchi||Five new cases from Hindpiri, ‘epicentre’ sealed for 72 hours||Ranchi: The district administration decided to extend the prohibitory orders under Section 144 of CrPC in Hindpiri locality for another 72 hours after five members of a family from the loclity’s Nala Road area tested positive for Covid-19 on Thursday. The area was earlier sealed for three days from Tuesday after a second woman tested positive for the virus on Monday. “We have issued a revised order under provisions of CrPC Section 144 under which not a single person is allowed to venture outside his or her residence for the next 72 hours,” Ranchi SDM Lokesh Mishra said. SSP Anish Gupta said, “We have deployed additional flying squads and patrolling teams and are monitoring the whole area through drone cameras. FIRs will be lodged against those found violating the prohibitory orders.” DC Rai Mahimapat Ray said, “On behalf of the district administration, I would like to assure the residents of Hindpiri that they need not worry about the supply of essential items as our teams are working round-the-clock. If they need any assistance, they can contact us on 8434086928.” Meanwhile, the district administration has begun contact tracing of all those who came in contact with any of the five patients to collect their swab samples and to put them in quarantine. “Anyone who disobeys the health workers during screening and sample collection or the government officials while discharging their duties, he or she will be booked under relevant sections of law,” Mishra added. Appealing to the Hindpiri residents, DC Ray said, “I request them to come forward and get themselves screened and tested, if they have had any direct or indirect contact with the positive patients. My appeal also applies to all those in the city who have developed symptoms of the virus or have had a travel history.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/five-new-cases-from-hindpiri-epicentre-sealed-for-72-hours/articleshow/75072265.cms||Gaurav Pandey
April 10, 2020||Ranchi||Covid-19 testing labs in Dhanbad & H’bag soon: Banna||Hazaribag: Two more facilities to test Covid-19 samples will soon be set up in Hazaribag and Dhanbad, state health minister Banna Gupta said on Thursday when the positive cases in Jharkhand rose to 13 from four in a single day. Talking to reporters after a review meeting with district officials during his visit to Hazaribag, Gupta said, “We have urged the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR ) to set up at least four more laboratories in the state to speed up the testing of Covid-19 samples. Two are already functional in Ranchi (Rims) and Jamshedpur (MGM). We have plans to begin testing in Dhanbad (PMCH) and Hazaribag soon. A proposal has been sent already in this regard.” Gupta added that the proposal for setting up a testing centre in Hazaribag was raised by deputy commissioner Bhuvanesh Pratap Singh as the district has witnessed the highest number of migrants coming back, soon after the lockdown came into force. On the sudden spurt of cases, Gupta said, “It is alarming and we will act more swiftly to speed up sampling and provide other medical assistance to keep the virus from spreading further.” He criticised the Union government for lack of any cooperation with the state in the latter’s fight against Covid-19. He said, “Modi ji held video conferences with the chief ministers twice but not even for once did he speak to Hemant Soren. Modi ji continues to remain silent despite our pleas to provide us medical kits for there is a grave shortage of them. I would urge him to give equal importance to Jharkhand.” Meanwhile, while on a visit to Ramgarh on Thursday, Gupta said that despite the surge in the number of positive cases of Covid-19 in the state, the virus has not crossed stage two in Jharkhand. “The number of cases rose from Ranchi and Bokaro today but we are still doing better than other states to contain the virus since it has not crossed from stage two to three here.” He added that he has requested the Union health ministry to provide medical equipment and is for its arrival. He further said, “The government would take help from PSUs and private companies in Jharkhand to use their corporate social responsibility funds for the fight against Covid-19.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/covid-19-testing-labs-in-dhanbad-hbag-soon-banna/articleshow/75072256.cms||---
April 10, 2020||Ranchi||Parents ‘apologise’ for saying girl died of hunger in Bokaro village||Ranchi/Bokaro: Parents of Meena Kumari, a 17-year-old disabled girl from Tikahara village in Gomia block of Bokaro who allegedly died of hunger and ill health on Wednesday, have reportedly “apologised” for stating before activists that their daughter died of starvation. “My daughter was disabled and she was ill. In a hurry, I told a social worker that she died of hunger, for which I apologise,” the letter said. On Wednesday, Tikahara gram panchayat mukhiya Hemanti Devi and panchayat samiti member Parvati Devi asked the girl’s parents — Jeetan Marandi and Shanti Devi — to put their thumb impressions on a letter addressed to the block development officer stating they apologise for saying that their daughter died of hunger. The letter was countersigned by the two panchayat members. Circle officer Om Prakash Pandey said the administration is preparing to lodge an FIR against Jitendra Marandi, the neighbour of the disabled girl, for spreading rumours of hunger death. “The father of the girl worked in Mandu circle as a labourer, but he was at home for the last few days due to the lockdown. However, they had enough to eat,” he said. Sources in the village said the family does not have a ration card and was reportedly going hungry for the past few days. The matter was reported to the NGO Right to Food’s Jharkhand unit, on Wednesday morning and some arrangements were made to provide immediate relief, but the girl died later in the day. Adivasi Moolvasi Manch member Anil Hansda of Tikahara village, who visited the family, said the girl was disabled and was ill for the last few days. He said, “The poor family could not get her treated due and they also could not take her to a hospital or a doctor because of the lockdown.” He added that the family has some foodgrains in stock, but the girl was unable to eat because of her ill health. Asked if the Mukhya Mantri Daal Bhaat Yojna, which provides cooked food to the poor for Rs 5, is not operational in the area, Hansda said the scheme started only on Wednesday. “There was some dispute about selecting the local sakhi mandal. This was resolved and the distribution of cooked food started on Wednesday,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/parents-apologise-for-saying-girl-died-of-hunger-in-bokaro-village/articleshow/75072301.cms||Jaideep Deogharia
April 10, 2020||Ranchi||FIR against 13 for killing of tribal man in Gumla district||GUMLA: Thirteen persons were booked under the Scheduled Castes and Scheduled Tribes (Prevention of Atrocities) Act on Thursday after a tribal youth died in the Sisai block of Gumla on Wednesday in violence which erupted over a rumour related to Covid-19. Four others also sustained injuries in this incident. Gumla SP Anjani Kumar Jha said, “Police have lodged an FIR against 13 people under the provision of SC/ST (Prevention of Atrocities) Act, 1989. We have arrested two persons while raids are on to nab others.” Gumla DC Sashi Ranjan said that dependants of the deceased have been given Rs 20,000 cash as initial compensation and one month ration. He appealed to people to not believe in rumours. He said, “Those found promoting fake news or rumours will be slapped with cases under the Disaster Management Act.” The youth died after clashes erupted over rumours that men from a certain community were allegedly spitting in public places to spread Covid-19 infection.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/fir-against-13-for-killing-of-tribal-man-in-gumla-dist/articleshow/75072564.cms||---
April 10, 2020||Ranchi||6 zoo staff in quarantine after indirect contact||Ranchi: The authorities of Ranchi’s Birsa Biological Park have asked six of its casual workers to remain in home quarantine for a fortnight. The directive was issued on Wednesday after it surfaced that one of them was the husband of the ANM who handled Ranchi’s second positive Covid-19 patient recently. D Venkateswarlu, director of the park, said, “One of our workers came to us on Wednesday and revealed that his wife, an ANM, was asked by Ranchi district administration to be on home quarantine with her family because she had handled the Ranchi woman (who tested positive) at a private health facility. He was then asked to be on self quarantine.” The park authorities asked five more men, who came in contact with the man, to be on home quarantine. One of the five is also a relative of the ANM. Venkateswarlu said all contractual and permanent staff of the park are being monitored. “They have been asked to report any health complications immediately,” he said. The ANM hails from Chakla village in Ormamjhi block in Ranchi district, some 20 kilometres from the state capital. The ANM, park authorities said, assisted doctors in the dialysis of the 54 year old Ranchi woman from Hindpiri at a private health facility in Bariatu before her test reports came in. In addition to this, another man from Chakla village, who had ties with Tablighi Jamaat, was recently asked to be in quarantine. The ANM’s husband was deployed at the boating section of the park. “Since the park closed on March 17 for the visitors, he was engaged in other tasks such as cleaning of enclosures and preparing fodder for herbivores,” a source in the park said. With a tiger testing positive for Covid-19 at a US zoo recently, the Ranchi zoo has been put on high alert by the Central Zoo Authority. The park’s vet, Dr Ajay Kumar, said, “Sanitisation is being done every day by spraying chemical solutions. We are also keeping an eye on the zoo inmates. So far, none have shown any symptoms such as respiratory problems, behavioural changes, appetite loss or diarrhoea.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/6-zoo-staff-in-quarantine-after-indirect-contact/articleshow/75072231.cms||Dhritiman Ray
April 10, 2020||Ranchi||Lawyers body rescues 2 with mental disorder||Ranchi: The District Legal Services Authority (DLSA), Ranchi, has rescued two mentally-challenged persons, who were starving and roaming aimlessly in Ichagarh area of Seraikela-Kharsawan district. They are now admitted to Ranchi Institute of Neuro-Psychiatry & Allied Sciences (Rinpas) here, where they will get treatment apart from food. The two persons, who are in the age group of 30 and 40 years, are unable to tell their names and addresses. With people remaining indoors and hotels closed during the lockdown, they were unable to find food. The local administration spotted them and contacted the Seraikela DLSA for help. After the local DLSA expressed its inability, the administration reached out to DLSA, Ranchi. Subsequently, judicial commissioner Navneet Kumar constituted a committee comprising Ranchi DLSA secretary Abhishek Kumar and two para-legal volunteers to handle the case. The DLSA secretary said, “Our team brought the two persons to Ranchi on a vehicle and got them tested at Rajendra Institute of Medical Sciences (Rims) for Covid-19. We have shifted them to Rinpas after getting their diagnosis. They will be kept in isolation wards as per norms.” He added, “The two persons were found moving aimlessly in Ichagarh. We are trying to locate their relatives.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/lawyers-body-rescues-2-with-mental-disorder/articleshow/75072318.cms||---
April 10, 2020||Ranchi||9 fresh Covid-19 cases in Jharkhand, count at 13||RANCHI/BOKARO: Jharkhand recorded a surge in Covid-19 cases on Thursday after nine more, including a man who died at a Bokaro hospital, tested positive for the disease. The state capital of Ranchi recorded five new cases while Bokaro districts recorded 4, taking the total count of the state to 13 — of which 12 are now active case. Eleven of these cases are linked to the Tablighi Jamaat markaz held in New Delhi last month. None of nine has any travel history and they were infected through direct or indirect contact with the carrier, who are family members, officials said, adding they are trying to find out likely source of infection. All five new cases in Ranchi are from Hindpiri locality, where the earlier two positive were also detected, and are family members of the 54-year-old woman, who tested positive on Monday. She is under treatment at Rims. She is likely to have got infected after she came in indirect contact with 22-yr Malaysian woman, who attended the Nizamuddin markaz and became the first Covid-19 case in the state. State health secretary Nitin Madan Kulkarni said, “Five members of a family from Hindpiri have tested positive for Covid-19. Their samples were collected on April 6 and their 54-year-old relative tested positive on Monday. The patients have now been shifted to the Covid-19 block at Rims for treatment.” Ranchi civil surgeon Dr V B Prasad said, “All five patients are males aged eight, 23, 26, 35, and 60. We are tracing their contacts in Hindpiri as well as other areas of city to screen and collect their samples, too. Till now, we have collected samples from 40 people based on contact tracing.” Of the four new cases in Bokaro district, three are family members of the 51-year-old woman of Telo village in Chandrapura block, who has links with the Tablighi Jammat and tested positive last week. The fourth is a 75-year-old resident of Sadam village in Gomia block, who died at the Bokaro General Hospital on Thursday morning. He had no travel history and no known contact with any patient. Bokaro civil surgeon Dr A K Pathak said, “Three persons from the 51-year-old woman’s family, including her two granddaughters, aged eight and 18, and her 75-year-old brother-in-law, have tested positive. They are asymptomatic.” Pathak said the Bokaro woman, who is the first to test positive in the district, had attended the markaz at Delhi’s Hazrat Nizamuddin before returning to home. She had also visited Dhaka, Bangladesh. He said, “She had not informed us about her travel history and we came to know only on Thursday that she visited Nizamuddin last month before coming back to Bokaro.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/9-fresh-covid-cases-in-jharkhand-count-at-13/articleshow/75072470.cms||Gaurav Pandey
April 10, 2020||Nagpur||Mixing of close contacts of patients, others irks quarantined||Nagpur: The concerns of those placed under institutional quarantine at MLA hostel, Ravi Bhavan, Vanamati and Lonara college do not seem misplaced. Nagpur Municipal Corporation (NMC) seems to have overlooked directives of quarantining yet-to-be-tested close contacts of Covid-19 positive patients only at the privately-run Lonara college and those with travel history at the three government centres. This was to ensure there was no cross-infection among the two sets of people as Delhi returnees had no known direct exposure to patients. Two persons – one each from MLA Hostels and Vanamati - have since tested positive for coronavirus last week. TOI has been consistently reporting about the concerns raised by mostly Delhi-returnees who are worried about sharing rooms with local suspects. Around 40 foreign-returned people figuring in Mumbai list faced the harassment of being picked up by NMC on Sunday night, only to be released next day. Last week, over 197 people were traced and quarantined within days of receiving the list from Delhi by NMC. Of these, many demanded they too be allowed to return home as they had returned over 20 days ago like the group of 40. In the last two days, NMC started bringing all close contacts at the three government facilities though there was space at Lonara centre. Realizing the threat, some people spoke to officials and also forwarded audio clips of their conversation with them to TOI. In one such conversation when a Delhi returnee informed him about the situation, the official says, “Directives have been given to isolate only those who test negative in city and close contacts at Lonara. Don’t worry.” The close contacts being high risk category are also kept at Mayo hospital or GMCH isolation wards till their test reports arrive. The person then informed the official that samples are taken being taken after close contacts are brought here. “We are told that now on they will be taken to Lonara but continuously people are being brought here. Some influential people were released too,” the person said. “Six days have passed, but we are not informed about our results. The sample was taken at Vanamati,” the person said. The official, requesting not to be named, said most Delhi returnees would be released after a second Covid-19 test on seventh day of stay. “Unless we have second test results in hand we can’t tell them anything. It will create ruckus as everyone wants to go home,” the official said. Most of these people are also agitated because they have been tagged with Tablighi Jamaat. District collector Ravindra Thakare said, “All persons who were present in that area during TJ, whether Muslim or a non-Muslim, could become infected. So out of abundance of caution all have been quarantined. Earlier two Hindus of Nagpur who had travelled from Delhi to Nagpur for their business were found infected. So all ofus need to take care.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/mixing-of-close-contacts-of-patients-others-irks-quarantined/articleshow/75073374.cms||Sarfaraz Ahmed
April 10, 2020||Ranchi||1st Covid death in Jharkhand; BGH docs & workers put in isolation||Bokaro: The death of a 75-year-old Covid-19 patient at Bokaro General Hospital (BGH) on Thursday morning sent the hospital authorities and doctors looking after him into a tizzy. The man was admitted to the hospital on Saturday with shortness of breath and chest pain, but was being treated like any other patient in the hospital’s critical care unit (CCU). Hospital sources said they recommended a Covid-19 test on the man on Sunday.“Due to the delay in getting the report, he could not be admitted to the Covid-19 ward. This ended up exposing others to the virus,” said a BGH doctor. Detailing the chain of events, another BGH source said that after the patient was admitted on Saturday, he was shifted to CCU owing to his weakness. Within half an hour, he was put on ventilator. The source added, “His ECG and troponin reports indicated he had suffered a heart attack. He was transferred to the cardiology unit. On Sunday, he got a mild fever. A bedside chest X-ray was done while he was on ventilator, which indicated he had lung infection. This caught the attention of the cardiologist, who sent his samples for Covid-19 tests. Doctors continued the cardiac treatment and antibiotics were given for his lung infection.” The patient died while he was being shifted to the Covid-19 ward, soon after his test reports came out. On Thursday morning, after his samples tested positive for Covid-19, BGH started sanitising the CCU and the areas near the hospital on a war-footing. The medical staff that came in contact with the man were also put in isolation immediately. While the district administration has begun efforts to trace the likely source of infection, officials suspect he may have caught the virus while offering namaz at a local mosque. “The man had no travel history. However, he visited the mosque before lockdown. Perhaps he got infected by some other carrier there,” said an administration source. BGH sources said they have begun sterilising the medical equipment and devices used in treating the patient and a large number of doctors and nurses have been put in quarantine in hotels. Bokaro deputy commissioner Mukesh Kumar did not wish to divulge the number of people put in quarantine, but said, “All those who have come in contact with the deceased are being screened.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/1st-covid-death-in-jharkhand-bgh-docs-workers-put-in-isolation/articleshow/75072337.cms||Divy Khare
April 10, 2020||Jamshedpur||9 fresh Covid-19 cases in Jharkhand, count at 13||RANCHI/BOKARO: Jharkhand recorded a surge in Covid-19 cases on Thursday after nine more, including a man who died at a Bokaro hospital, tested positive for the disease. The state capital of Ranchi recorded five new cases while Bokaro districts recorded 4, taking the total count of the state to 13 — of which 12 are now active case. Eleven of these cases are linked to the Tablighi Jamaat markaz held in New Delhi last month. None of nine has any travel history and they were infected through direct or indirect contact with the carrier, who are family members, officials said, adding they are trying to find out likely source of infection. All five new cases in Ranchi are from Hindpiri locality, where the earlier two positive were also detected, and are family members of the 54-year-old woman, who tested positive on Monday. She is under treatment at Rims. She is likely to have got infected after she came in indirect contact with 22-yr Malaysian woman, who attended the Nizamuddin markaz and became the first Covid-19 case in the state. State health secretary Nitin Madan Kulkarni said, “Five members of a family from Hindpiri have tested positive for Covid-19. Their samples were collected on April 6 and their 54-year-old relative tested positive on Monday. The patients have now been shifted to the Covid-19 block at Rims for treatment.” Ranchi civil surgeon Dr V B Prasad said, “All five patients are males aged eight, 23, 26, 35, and 60. We are tracing their contacts in Hindpiri as well as other areas of city to screen and collect their samples, too. Till now, we have collected samples from 40 people based on contact tracing.” Of the four new cases in Bokaro district, three are family members of the 51-year-old woman of Telo village in Chandrapura block, who has links with the Tablighi Jammat and tested positive last week. The fourth is a 75-year-old resident of Sadam village in Gomia block, who died at the Bokaro General Hospital on Thursday morning. He had no travel history and no known contact with any patient. Bokaro civil surgeon Dr A K Pathak said, “Three persons from the 51-year-old woman’s family, including her two granddaughters, aged eight and 18, and her 75-year-old brother-in-law, have tested positive. They are asymptomatic.” Pathak said the Bokaro woman, who is the first to test positive in the district, had attended the markaz at Delhi’s Hazrat Nizamuddin before returning to home. She had also visited Dhaka, Bangladesh. He said, “She had not informed us about her travel history and we came to know only on Thursday that she visited Nizamuddin last month before coming back to Bokaro.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jamshedpur/9-fresh-covid-cases-in-jharkhand-count-at-13/articleshow/75079638.cms||Gaurav Pandey
April 10, 2020||Nagpur||City hotel hosts 77 quarantined people on way back home||Nagpur: Two buses from New Delhi, ferrying a group which was quarantined there for almost 25 days, made a pit stop at Nagpur en route to their final destination in south India. The group of 77 had completed their mandatory quarantine holding period following which the Delhi government gave them permission to return to their states. Hotel Centre Point, Ramdaspeth, offered them free use of their building to freshen up or stay the night before continuing their long journey to Hyderabad, Bengaluru and Chennai. These people have not only completed the mandatory 14-day quarantine, but also an additional 10-day isolation period. Two tests done over a period of two weeks have also come negative. Jasbir Singh Arora, director of the hotel, said “These people left from Delhi and en route there was no decent place for them to stop as all hotels are closed. Somebody reached out to us and we were more than happy to offer the use of our facilities.” Arora immediately contacted the authorities and informed them of the request he had received. Following protocol, Arora first sought the authorities’ permission to offload the passengers and accommodate them in the hotel. One of the passengers, who identified himself simply as Rahul, said “We started yesterday around midnight from Delhi and stopped only at petrol pumps to use washroom facilities. It is a privilege for us to get to use a star hotel like this.” The group has decided against spending the night in Nagpur as all of them are eager to get back home. Arora’s offer is not only free of charge but also comes with complete professional service. “At Delhi, six of them stayed in one room. We have made arrangements for two in one room. Food and refreshments will be made available to them as per requirement,” said Arora. This is just part of the community outreach started by Arora since he first opened up his hotel for doctors and nurses. Instead of going home, where there is a fear of passing on the infection to their near and dear ones, medical health workers are using the hotel’s facilities to rest before going back to work. The hotel has even offered free pickup and drop facilities for health professionals from the hospital to hotel. Commenting about movement of buses during lockdown, divisional commissioner Sanjeev Kumar said once their quarantine period is over, the people have to be discharged. “People will have to move out of quarantine facility once the holding period is over and they test negative. That’s why the government must have given them necessary permissions to return home,” said Kumar.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/city-hotel-hosts-77-quarantined-people-on-way-back-home/articleshow/75073382.cms||Abhishek Choudhari
April 10, 2020||Nagpur||NMC begins counselling, yoga for migrants at shelter homes||Nagpur: Raju Jangid, a migrant from Rajasthan is stranded along with 39 others from his state, at a school-turned-shelter home in Nagpur since March 27. With no work and activity, Jangid’s group and 88 other inmates here were experiencing homesickness. Nagpur Municipal Corporation and NGOs monitoring the functioning of five civic-run and other institutional shelter homes across the city, are facing a unique challenge to keep the over 1,000 restless migrants indoors. With no entertainment or even TV available, most are glued to their phones, while some could be seen only sleeping. “To overcome this inactivity, NMC and city-based NGOs have launched activity-based programmes at 19 shelter homes across the city,” NMC’s social welfare officer Ranjana Lade told TOI. “With the help of trainers, we have introduced yoga classes every morning at these centres. We are also organizing counseling sessions for the shelter home inmates. The idea is to keep their mind engaged and body fit during. It is very easy for negativity, depression to creep in,” she said. They are being monitored regularly by doctors. “Classes conducted by the yoga teachers daily are making a positive impact on them,” said Neha Patel, part of an NGO managing the shelter homes. “We are also planning to organize cultural programmes here,” said Lade adding, “all these activities are being conducted while ensuring social distancing.” She said apart from two meals, NMC had also started giving breakfast and tea to inmates. Most of them like Jangid want to be back in their homes as they have had no work post lockdown. They insisted the civic and district administration let them go to their respective native place, said Neerja Pathaniya, member of a city-based NGO. According to Lade, 1,118 people including 994 men, 87 women and 37 children are staying in 19 shelter homes. Of these, 573 were from Madhya Pradesh, 168 from Rajasthan, 73 from Uttar Pradesh and 24 from Chhattisgarh and are mostly migrant laborers and people from financially weaker sections.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/nmc-begins-counselling-yoga-for-migrants-at-shelter-homes/articleshow/75073386.cms||Proshun Chakraborty
April 10, 2020||Nagpur||Trust footing all bills at Lonara facility||Nagpur: Over 108 people quarantined at Central India Group of Institutions’ college at Lonara have countered the allegations that facilities were not up to the mark. Trust advisor Anees Ahmed said it is footing all the expenses and pooling in resources from NGOs and individuals to meet the challenge of hosting over 100 Covid19 suspects at the Pharmacy College building on the 40-acre campus. On March 7, TOI had reported how some foreign-returned people were unhappy about the facilities. NMC released them within 24 hrs and allowed them to go home without even collecting their samples. Ahmed said that despite getting a short notice and all staffers going on mass leave because of the corona fear, the trust managed to put all arrangements in place. He said the centre was inspected by Mangalwari zone’s assistant commissioner Harish Raut, who lauded the efforts of the management. The quarantine centre has been prepared as per the norms laid down by the ministry of health under the supervision of NMC. The quarantine centre offers 40 well-ventilated rooms, beds arranged keeping in mind social distancing, clean mattresses, new bed sheets and good bathrooms. After a couple of suspects posted pictures, the trust took feedback from all. “I appreciate your efforts to make the college as safe and comfortable as you can,” read one of the messages.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/trust-footing-all-bills-at-lonara-facility/articleshow/75073389.cms||Sarfaraz Ahmed
April 10, 2020||Nagpur||Take goods trains for duty, RPF staff told||Nagpur: Railway Protection Force (RPF) personnel on leave at their hometowns are in a predicament after the top brass revised it’s earlier order and asked them to immediately join duty at the nearest post. They have also been directed to report for duty at their original postings by taking parcel or goods trains to reach their places of posting. Several RPF personnel had proceeded on sanctioned leave before the national lockdown began to break the Covid-19 chain. They were stranded at their native places as the public transport systems, including railways, stopped operating completely after the upswing in the virus outbreak before March 25. It’s learnt that the RPF top brass and railway board had initially asked personnel on leave to join their nearest post to resume their duties. Following the directive, many personnel had resumed duties at the post closest to their native places. The personnel were left befuddled by the latest order, which states that they are required to take the parcel and goods trains to reach their posts. An official said, on condition of anonymity, that it would be impractical to take parcel or goods trains as they may take two or three days or even more to reach a place. “There may be a need to change trains at different places to reach a particular location through parcel or goods trains. Also these trains do not have toilet facilities or even provisions for food or water. It is impossible for women RPF staffers to travel in such conditions,” he said. Another official said that every time the train is changed, there would be a travel history warranting quarantining of the personnel at different places for 14 days. “In some cases, trucks are hired to ferry RPF personnel from one place to another, like Haryana did on Thursday. Several RPF personnel were taken to Rohtak from another place in a truck,” he said. Senior divisional security commissioner Ashutosh Pandey, in-charge of RPF of Central Railway (CR) and also South East Central Railway (SECR), said that the personnel returning from leaves have been told to join the escort parties to reach the places of their posting, where it is possible without breaking the journey. “The issue has been sorted out for most, as we had tried to find the best possible solution for the RPF personnel stranded across the nation. In goods or parcel trains, there are toilets in the guard’s room, which the personnel can use,” he said, adding 11 from SECR and three from CR are still stranded at different places.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/take-goods-trains-for-duty-rpf-staff-told/articleshow/75073409.cms||Soumitra Bose
April 10, 2020||Business||Bengal Inc lauds lockdown ease for select sectors||Kolkata: Trade and industry bodies on Thursday promised to extend all sorts of assistance to the state government in the joint fight against the Covid-19 pandemic, as chief minister Mamata Banerjee promised some relaxation for a few industrial sectors. Notable among them was the permission for commencing skiffing operations at north Bengal tea estates “with a maximum of 15% of the active workforce at any point of time ensuring all norms of social distancing and proper hygienic practices”. The Tea Inc welcomed the initial relief, provided the government. Indian Tea Exporters’ Association (ITEA) chairman Anshuman Kanoria said the order to allow skiffing or pruning of tea bushes and leaf-cutting may be beneficial to Dooars gardens and few low-elevation Darjeeling gardens. The Darjeeling Tea Association (DTA), the leading planters’ body in the Hills, has been seeking permission to reopen the gardens. DTA chairman Binod Mohan told TOI: “The government is making all efforts to restore normalcy step by step. The safety and health of our workers is above everything else.” The ailing agri-based sector in the state has claimed that it has lost hundreds of crore rupees so far, amid the lockdown. The Tea Board of India advises garden owners to consult with the respective district magistrates before commencing operations. “However, there is a pressing need to restore production at the higher Darjeeling gardens before they need skiffing,” added Kanoria. Engineering Export Promotion Council (EEPC) may also get some relaxation for its exports from Bengal. The CM, during the interaction with industry captains, asked chief secretary Rajiva Sinha to look into the issue. “If it is possible without any harm, we can look at it,” she said. EEPC India chairman Ravi Sehgal had appealed to chief minister for access of engineering export to Haldia and Kolkata port. “The engineering export from Bengal amounts to Rs 25,000 crore. It employs over two lakh people,” he said. During the interaction, the president of Confederation of West Bengal Trade Association, Sushil Poddar, said its members are ready to help the state. “Our members are involved in every kind of business including spare parts. WE heard that rice mill owners and others are facing problems in procuring spare parts, we are ready to help,” he added. Rudra Chatterjee, president of Ficci, eastern region said that one of his group (Luxmi) companies has started manufacturing PPE and can deliver the product soon. ICC president Mayank Jalan said his organisation would take care of two big markets in Barasat and Kolkata.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/bengal-inc-lauds-lockdown-ease-for-select-sectors/articleshow/75073440.cms||---
April 10, 2020||India||INS slams Sonia Gandhi's ad-ban proposal||NEW DELHI: Media associations and journalist groups on Thursday criticised Congress president Sonia Gandhi’s suggestion that the Centre, as part of austerity measures to generate funds to fight coronavirus, should impose a two-year ban on all non-Covid advertisements by the government and PSUs, and said this would amount to “financial censorship”. The Indian Newspaper Society (INS) condemned the proposal and asked the Congress chief to withdraw the suggestion. “Such a proposal tantamounts to financial censorship. It is a very small amount as far as government spending is concerned, but it is a huge amount for the newspaper industry, which is essential for any vibrant democracy, and is struggling to survive,” a statement by INS president Shailesh Gupta said. INS also argued that advertisement and circulation revenues had already taken a beating as a result of recession and the digital onslaught. “Print is the only industry which has a wage board and the government decides how much the employees should be paid. This being the only industry where market forces don’t decide salaries, the government has a responsibility towards the industry,” it said. Journalists’ bodies too expressed “utter dismay” and took “serious umbrage” at Sonia’s suggestions to PM Narendra Modi. Press Association, Indian Journalists Union, National Union of Journalists and Working News Cameramen’s Association said this measure would “undermine the role of the media” at this crucial hour and called the suggestion “completely myopic and lacking in reason”. “The effects of the ravaging pandemic has put the media industry, particularly print media, under severe financial stress and several newspapers have already suspended printing. Many journalists across the country have lost jobs due to this crisis. Stopping advertisements to the media at this juncture would blow the death knell of the industry, the role of which is very crucial in the fight against the deadly infection,” they said. Earlier, the News Broadcasters Association and News Broadcasters Federation had deplored Sonia’s suggestion in the strongest terms and said it was not only “ill-timed but also highly arbitrary”. In a letter to the PM, Sonia had made five suggestions for fighting Covid-19, including a “complete ban on media advertisements for two years, a 30% cut in expenditure budget, cutting down foreign travel of President, PM, all Union and state ministers, as well as bureaucrats, among measures to build emergency funds to tackle the coronavirus pandemic”.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/ins-slams-sonia-gandhis-ad-ban-proposal/articleshow/75074718.cms||---
April 10, 2020||Bengaluru||Karnataka favours total lockdown across all districts till April 30||BENGALURU: The Karnataka cabinet on Thursday rejected the recommendations of an expert panel of doctors advocating a "graded lifting" of the 21-day lockdown and favoured complete shutdown till April 30. "The cabinet ministers have suggested extension of the full-scale lockdown to check the spread of Covid-19. We will take a final decision after consulting the PM," chief minister BS Yediyurappa said. Coronavirus pandemic: Live updatesThe PM is set to hold a teleconference with CMs on Saturday to seek their opinion on continuation of the lockdown. The cabinet also decided to cut the salaries of ministers, MLAs, MLCs, speaker, deputy speaker and the chief whip by 30% for one year and give it to the state government for use in fighting the Covid-19 pandemic. "The pay cut starts from April 1 and the total amount adds up to Rs 15 crore," law and parliamentary affairs minister JC Madhuswamy said. More on Covid-19Coronavirus pandemic: Complete Coverage21-day lockdown: What will stay open and what won'tHow to quarantine yourself at homeTrust the newspaper for your daily verified newsThe experts’ panel tasked with devising an exit strategy had recommended continuation of lockdown in Covid-19 hotspots and restrictions in the rest of the state. The report submitted to the CM on Wednesday suggested closure of schools and colleges till May 31 and restrictions on mass gatherings. The state cabinet also decided to compensate the losses suffered by farmers due to untimely rain in many parts of Karnataka. It's time to mask up and stay safe: Join TOI's #MaskIndia campaignCabinet extends GST deadlineWe’ve asked district administrations to send reports and will release compensation later,” Yediyurappa said referring to incidents of rain-damaged paddy crop in Koppal. The cabinet decided to release Rs1crore each to 49 drought-hit taluks and Rs 50 lakh each to town panchayats to address the drinking water problem. To help businessmen, the cabinet decided to extend time till June 30 to file GST returns for 2019-20. The government has ordered distribution of rations to over 2 lakh families, which have no ration cards or waiting for one.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/karnataka-favours-total-lockdown-across-all-districts-till-april-30/articleshow/75074729.cms||---
April 10, 2020||Gurgaon||Lockdown: Out for a walk in Gurugram? You will be booked||GURUGRAM: To enforce social distancing and prohibit residents from coming out, police on Thursday said FIRs will be filed against morning walkers and park-goers for violating lockdown guidelines in the city. Two residents can't go out together even if they are going to purchase essential items, officers said. The move comes after many resident welfare associations (RWAs) and residents of DLF areas raised the issue with Gurugram police and district administration officials during a meeting on Thursday. They said many residents continue to go out for morning walks and needlessly loiter around in parks and streets. R S Rathee, the MCG councillor of Ward No. 34 - under which most DLF areas fall - said police have warned that anyone found unnecessarily moving on roads outside their houses will be booked. No crowds will be allowed at markets and outlets selling essentials. DLF-1 SHO Vishnu Prasad directed security guards to not allow any non-essential movement in licenced colonies. DCP (east) Chander Mohan told TOI that all parks are closed. "Strict action, including registration of FIRs, will be be taken against those found violating the guidelines or moving around on parks and streets, " he said. Asked about the order, Gurugram deputy commissioner Amit Khatri said, "Lockdown rules certainly need to be adhered to. Violations won't be condoned." Most residents welcomed the move. Other residents, meanwhile, sought clarity on whether residents can move within the premises of their residential society. "There is no clarity on restriction on movement of residents within societies and complexes. There should be clear guidelines to avoid confusion," said Rajesh Ranjan, a resident of Sushant Lok.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/gurgaon/out-for-a-walk-in-gurugram-you-will-be-booked/articleshow/75074741.cms||Rao Jaswant Singh
April 10, 2020||Delhi||Delhi: Hospital management gives patient's body to family, booked||NEW DELHI: The management of Maharaja Agrasen Hospital has been booked after it allegedly handed over the body of a Covid-19 patient to his relatives without informing the local authorities. According to the police, a complaint was received from the SDM Punjabi Bagh alleging that a 72-year-old female patient from Rohtak was admitted to the hospital on March 10 and subsequently referred to Sir Ganga Ram Hospital where she was found to be Covid-19 positive. Later on several tests, six hospital employees were found to be Covid-19 positive. After patient’s last rites, son tests positiveAfter instructions given by the CDMO (west), the hospital authorities carried out the Covid-19 test on patients coming within the 5m periphery of the female patient and also on 82 employees who came in contact with her. After this, six employees of the hospital were found to be Covid-19 positive,” said a police spokesperson. Further, a patient named Khila Ram from Sonipat, who was also admitted in the same ward, was also detected Covid-19 positive. He passed away on April 4 in the hospital. “The hospital authorities handed over the body to the relatives of deceased Khila Ram without informing the local authorities and violated the guidelines issued by the Centre,” the spokesperson said. The DM (west) has ordered a detailed inquiry after it came to light that the family members of Khila Ram did not inform anyone regarding the corona-positive status of the deceased. Several persons attended the cremation. Later, Khila Ram’s son was also found to be Covid-19 positive. “A case under IPC sections of violating public order and other related offences and section 3 of the Epidemic Act and Section 51 B of the Disaster Management Act was registered at the Punjabi Bagh police station against the senior administration management of Maharaja Agrasen Hospital for negligence,” the police spokesperson said. However, no arrests have been made yet.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/calling-for-census-boycott-a-criminal-offence-bjp/articleshow/75074746.cms||---
