April 11, 2020||Bengaluru||#Compassionunderlockdown: City restaurateurs send meals the needy||While most Bengalureans have ensured that the poorer sections of society are taken care of during the lockdown and are either cooking for them, or sending out groceries, the city’s restaurateurs have now stepped into the fray. The goal is to ensure that the needy and those working on the frontline, do not go without food. Catering to the needy“We are trying to serve 10,000 meals a day directly to the affected areas of Bengaluru, where people don’t have access to basic necessities that most of us,” wrote restaurateur Nikhil Hegde in a social media post, adding that with every share of the post, they would give 10 meals to those in need. A salute to the policemenRestaurateur Karthik Reddy is ensuring that the policemen on duty get fresh, hot meals daily, through the ‘Stars salute the cops’ initiative, for which he gets Sandalwood actors to distribute food prepared at his restaurant to cops on duty. "Our intention is to express our gratitude to the policemen who’ve been toiling day and night, sacrificing their well-being and not spending time with their own families through this pandemic,” he says. Helping strays, tooBesides distributing food to around 200 people working as security and other essential staff daily, Nerall Bakhai’s restaurant has now taken up an additional responsibility. “We have opened up our kitchen to a team of volunteers who used to feed 100 dogs daily. They can now feed twice as many,” he shares.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/compassionunderlockdown-city-restaurateurs-send-meals-the-needy/articleshow/75087450.cms||Sunayana Suresh
April 11, 2020||India||7 Keralites linked to TJ found positive among 23 others in J&K||SRINAGAR: A group of seven Keralites associated with Tablighi Jamaat and nine locals tested positive for Covid-19 in Kashmir Valley on Friday. Of the nine locals, one was in contact with the Kerala group. Also, seven positive cases were reported from Jammu during the day, taking Friday’s number of such cases across J&K to 23. With the addition of these 23 cases, J&K’s tally has gone up to 207, of which 168 were from the Valley, government spokesman Rohit Kansal said. Government authorities have discovered that there are a total of 22 Tablighis among the Covid-19 positive patients in Kashmir. Srinagar district development commissioner Shahid Iqbal Chowdary said: “This is a classic tracing success story. We found a group of seven non-local visitors (Keralites), acted fast and quarantined them. All of them tested positive for Covid-19 on Friday. The only local, who was in contact with them and who too tested positive, is from Srinagar.” Later, Chowdary tweeted: “8 Covid +ve in Srinagar today sounds panicky, but it’s not. This is a classic tracing success story (sic).” One of the Tablighis from Hyderpora, who had tested positive earlier, had passed away on March 25. This man had visited the Markaz at Nizamuddin in Delhi and also travelled to Andaman Nicobar, UP and Jammu.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/7-keralites-linked-to-tj-found-positive-among-23-others-in-jk/articleshow/75088612.cms||M Saleem Pandit
April 11, 2020||India||Man in isolation ward hangs self, tests negative later||TRICHY: A 60-year-old man admitted to the Covid-19 isolation ward of Ariyalur government hospital hanged himself to death on Friday evening. However, a little later, his swab sample was found to have tested negative for the novel coronavirus at the lab in Mahatma Gandhi Memorial Government Hospital (MGMGH). The victim, P Narayanan, was a native of Arakkatalai village in Ariyalur district and was working as a daily wager in Kerala. He had returned on March 23 but having had fever symptoms volunteered to undergo the test at Ariyalur GH. He was admitted to the isolation ward of the GH on April 6 and his swab was sent to the Covid-19 lab at Trichy GH the next day. He was put up in a separate room in the ward as his result was awaited. On Friday evening, a staff nurse in Ariyalur GH gave him tea and biscuits around 6 pm. However, when medical personnel came with dinner around 7 pm, they found him hanging from the window using his towel. “He was completely calm during the treatment and his swab test result was supposed to be out on Saturday. After his death, we got in touch with the Trichy GH lab on phone and found that he had tested negative for Covid-19," a senior health department official said. The CCTV cameras have coverage only up to the entrance of the isolation room. Apart from the Narayanan, there were three other patients admitted to the isolation ward of Ariyalur GH. The swab test was not conducted on two patients as they did not show symptoms, the officials added. Ariyalur collector D Rathna said, "Hospital management said there was a quarrel between the victim and his wife at the hospital campus when she came to meet him. An inquiry is under way." Ariyalur police are investigating the suicide.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/man-in-isolation-ward-hangs-self-tests-negative-later/articleshow/75088660.cms||---
April 11, 2020||India||Centre exempts marine fishing operations and related activities from the lockdown restrictions||NEW DELHI: in a relief to fishing sector, the Centre on Friday exempted marine fishing operations, aquaculture industry, movement of fish/shrimp and fish products and workers for all these activities from the lockdown restrictions. The move will now allow the enlisted fishing activities to be carried out during the lockdown period in all coastal states under a regulated provision of permits/passes, issued by district authorities. In its fifth addendum to its lockdown guidelines, the home ministry put these activities under the exempted categories along with various other related works including operation of processing, packaging, cold chain, sale and marketing, hatcheries, feed plants and commercial aquaria in the marine fishing sector. The move came in the backdrop of demands from the marine sector as lakhs of fishermen had been out of works ever since the lockdown was imposed to fight the spread of Covid-19 on March 24. In fact, thousands of marine fishermen were out in the sea when the lockdown order came. In his order late on Friday night, the Union home secretary Ajay Bhalla, however, asked the states to allow these exemptions while adhering to social distancing and other precautionary measures. "As specified in the lockdown measures, social distancing and proper hygiene practices must be ensured in each of the above activities as well as the activities permitted by earlier orders," said Bhalla. He told the chief secretaries of states that it would be the responsibilities of the head of organisations/establishments to ensure compliance of such norms. “The district authorities will ensure strict enforcement,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/centre-exempts-marine-fishing-operations-and-related-activities-from-the-lockdown-restrictions/articleshow/75088838.cms||Vishwa Mohan
April 11, 2020||India||Why death rates vary widely in states: Testing could be key||NEW DELHI: There is wide variation in case fatality rates (deaths as percentage of cases) between states with over 100 cases as of Friday morning, with Madhya Pradesh (7.7%) at the high end and Kerala, which recorded the first Covid-19 case in India, at just 0.6%. Maharashtra, with the largest number of cases, is number 4 on this list. Tamil Nadu and Delhi, despite having the second and third highest number of cases , have among the lowest mortality rates of 0.96% and 1.67% respectively. What explains this wide variation? There are no definitive answers, but public health and epidemiology experts TOI spoke to have some suggestions. They said states testing more widely would have lower mortality rates as they would pick up even mild or asymptomatic cases. ‘Age could be a factor in death rate’This would increase the denominator (the number of cases) and hence reduce the calculated value of the death rate, the experts pointed out. Dr Anant Bhan, a researcher on global health, pointed out that if only severe cases or those reporting with serious symptoms to hospitals were being tested, the case fatality rate would be high. “The data seems to indicate that in the initial stages, the death rates are higher. But once they get the hang of how to manage serious cases, then probably the death rate falls. Or maybe reports of the deaths make more patients with mild symptoms rush to the hospital and so the death rate falls,” said Dr N Devadadan, former director of Institute of Public Health, Bangalore, adding that it was not possible to make any definite statements without more data, especially clinical data. Prof Rakhal Gaitonde, a public health policy expert from the Sree Chitra Tirunal Institute for Medical Sciences and Technology, said the age structure of those being diagnosed could be a factor. “In Kerala, for example, a large proportion are young adults (travellers/workers in other countries) and hence the death rate among them will tend to be very low,” said Dr Gaitonde, adding that it was too early to speculate about the difference in death rates given the wide range of testing strategies, testing coverage and age structures in different states. Dr Giridhar Babu, epidemiologist with Public Health Foundation of India, also felt that unreported cases would have the effect of decreasing the denominator (cases) and inflating the case fatality rate above its real value. “In Maharashtra, surveillance efforts are better (than WB, Bihar, UP and MP), but there could be selection bias, meaning those with severe disease are getting preferentially tested. Also, there might be a delay in admission and availability of specialised care, which is a function of how strong your public health system is,” said Dr Babu. He added that there may be delays between onset of symptoms and death, which could lead to underestimation of the case fatality rate. Dr Babu also cautioned that it was important to distinguish between deaths of those who test positive for Covid. “Dying with the disease (association) is not the same as dying from the disease (causation),” he pointed out.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/why-death-rates-vary-widely-in-states-testing-could-be-key/articleshow/75089447.cms||Rema Nagarajan
April 11, 2020||India||Vital test to cover all symptomatic cases in hotspots now||NEW DELHI: The government expanded its RT-PCR testing for Covid-19— considered definitive in confirming the disease — to cover all symptomatic people in hotspot areas, clusters and large migration gatherings or evacuee centres within seven days of reporting sick. The protocol states that after a week of symptoms, an antibody test can be done followed by a confirmatory RT-PCR if the results are negative. “We have revised the testing strategy to include all symptomatic people,” Manoj Murhekar from Indian Council of Medical Research said. The symptoms include fever, cough, sore throat, runny nose and difficulty in breathing. Last week, the government issued an advisory to start rapid antibody blood test for Covid-19 among symptomatic people with influenza like illnesses in cluster containment zones and in large migration gatherings and evacuee centres. Those with symptoms but tested negative were to also remain in quarantine, due to concerns over false negatives. So far, RT-PCR was approved for testing of all symptomatic people with international travel history in last 14 days, symptomatic contacts of Covid-19 positive cases, symptomatic healthcare workers and all hospitalised patients with severe acute respiratory illness (SARI). Besides, the government had also decided to conduct RT-PCR test on asymptomatic direct and high-risk contacts of a confirmed case between day 5 and 14 of such contact. Apart from this, RT-PCR or real-time reverse transcription polymerase chain reaction test was also advised as a confirmatory procedure in cases where the antibody blood test resulted negative in certain cases. The RT-PCR test is an elaborate four-stage test. Sources said the expansion of testing is aimed at breaking the chain.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/government-ramps-up-rt-pcr-testing-in-hotspots/articleshow/75089535.cms||Sushmi Dey
April 11, 2020||India||Many Covid cases without travel or contact history, shows ICMR study||NEW DELHI: An ICMR study of patients admitted with Severe Acute Respiratory Illness (SARI) showed that 93% of those who tested positive for Covid-19 and for whom data on exposure was known had neither travelled abroad nor had any contact with a person known to be infected. According to the study, of 102 SARI patients who tested positive for Covid-19, no data was available for 59 (58%) cases regarding any contact they might have had with a Covid-19 positive person or of international travel. Of the remaining 43, about whom such details of exposure and history were known, 40 (93%) had no history of international travel or contact. Some public health experts see it as an indication of community spread. Dr T Sundararaman, a public health expert who has worked with the Indian government, said, “This is the definition of community spread even by the WHO - cases without any history of contact with infected persons or of international travel. Community transmission is just a particular stage in the disease transmission and it doesn’t mean the government has failed or that the lockdown was not a success. The reluctance to accept that community transmission has set in seems to stem from the insistence on lockdown being successful only if it has stopped community transmission. There is going to be no real change in strategy if community spread has set in.” According to the WHO, “Community transmission is evidenced by the inability to relate confirmed cases through chains of transmission for a large number of cases, or by increasing positive tests through sentinel samples (routine systematic testing of respiratory samples from established laboratories).” The ICMR study, of which the institution’s head Balram Bhargava was a co-author, also stated that Covid-19 positivity among SARI patients has increased from zero before March 14 to 2.6% for week ending April 2. Between March 22 and April 2, when the Covid testing strategy was expanded to include all SARI patients, 102 out of 4,946 samples tested positive. Listing the limitations of the study, it cautioned that since the data on SARI patients pertained to selected sentinel hospitals, predominantly public sector ones in urban areas, it might not be representative of the entire district, state or country. However it added that the trend of Covid-19 positivity among SARI patients could provide reliable information about its spread in the area. The study also pointed out that diagnosis of some Covid-19 positive SARI patients could have been missed due to false negative results (when positive patients show negative in a test) of laboratory tests based on RT-PCR. It said antibody-based testing among those who tested negative in the RT-PCR test could have increased the number of positive cases. The study stressed the importance of testing SARI patients to help in deciding response activities including testing, containment and mitigation measures.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/many-covid-cases-without-travel-or-contact-history-shows-icmr-study/articleshow/75089552.cms||Rema Nagarajan
April 11, 2020||Business||Fewer shifts, ‘green zones’: Industry readies plans for life after lockdown||MUMBAI/NEW DELHI: A leading consumer durables company has begun sanitising its plant in north India for a possible opening-up after three weeks of lockdown due to the coronavirus pandemic. It is already drawing up a schedule to run the factory with fewer shifts so that the number of workers is lower and social distancing can be maintained. During the last few days, industry representatives have had meetings with key government functionaries, where they have proposed multiple ways to resume economic activity, although the Centre is yet to take a final call on ending the lockdown, which has seen factories producing “non-essentials” shut down. After all, the industry is worried over losing revenue, resulting in widespread job losses and debt servicing problems, piling pressure on banks. “We can resume in a graded manner, starting with green zones, where there are few or no cases, provided the industry follows a strict protocol,” said CII director general Chandrajit Banerjee. Ficci has suggested that the lockdown should be extended by seven days in areas with Covid-19 cases, while allowing all sectors to operate in areas where there are no cases. Coronavirus outbreak: Live updatesLogistics, availability of labour top concernsWhen the lockdown started, a key concern for businesses was logistics. “We got multiple queries on trucks being stopped and how to get raw material moving. While rubber bands and plastic bottles are not essentials, they are key to supplying masks and hand sanitisers. All that has been sorted out now,” said Invest India managing director and CEO Deepak Bagla. The government’s investment promotion agency is running a platform for businesses to present the difficulties that they are encountering, and it is trying to address them. While logistics remains the top concern, labour availability and liquidity are top-of-the-mind items for companies as they eagerly watch PM’s meeting with chief ministers on Saturday. A large chunk of migrant workers has returned home and, hiring agencies said, many are unlikely to return immediately. Even for continuous process plants such pharmaceuticals, there are not enough workers coming in, said an industry official. Another executive said that there are no truckers to unload materials, creating logistic hurdles. "A lot of businesses depend on migrant workers. So, we are trying to figure out how some of the plants would gradually begin operations," said RPG Enterprises chairman Harsh Goenka. More on Covid-19Coronavirus pandemic: Complete Coverage21-day lockdown: What will stay open and what won'tHow to quarantine yourself at homeTrust the newspaper for your daily verified newsLobby group Ficci has suggested that all sectors should be allowed to operate in areas where there is little migration, with goods and manpower being allowed to move freely but focus on local procurement. Government officials suggested the industry should look at the option of providing accommodation around plants too, and dormitories are an area that companies are open to look at. Industry chambers have also circulated best practices that members can follow. For instance, Ficci has suggested that healthy workers in the 22-39 year age group should be allowed into plants first, while CII has proposed that only those under 65 years should be hired. There are a host of other suggestions — from operating plants with fewer shifts and longer breaks between shifts to staggered lunch breaks. Testing and health facilities are proposed to be beefed up, while providing transport to workers. "The first few days will be spent training our members on the new SOPs as well as ensuring safe materials and working environment for them to work in. We will also be practising social distancing at the plant, making it mandatory to use face masks and undergo thermal scanning for everyone and use of sanitisers to maintain a healthy environment at work," said Naveen Soni, senior vice-president (sales and service), Toyota Kirloskar Motor. With businesses losing revenue and worried about wage payment and debt servicing, companies such as JSW Steel are already gearing up to resume operations at all locations from April 15. TCS said the "resumption of operations at our offices will depend on the directives issued by the government, local authorities as well as our assessment of the situation."||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/fewer-shifts-green-zones-industry-readies-plans-for-life-after-lockdown/articleshow/75089603.cms||Reeba Zachariah
April 11, 2020||India||At last, Pakistan contributes to Saarc fund but India is not impressed||NEW DELHI: After Pakistan on Thursday announced $3 million for Saarc Covid-19 Emergency Fund, India responded by saying that the “degree of seriousness of each (Saarc) nation can be gauged by their behaviour”. Pakistan is not only the last Saarc country to contribute to the fund but it also said that the amount be administered by the Saarc secretariat. “It is for each Saarc member-state to decide on the timing, manner and implementation of their Saarc Covid-19 Emergency Response Fund commitments,” said MEA spokesperson Anurag Srivastava. “Where India is concerned, the commitment made by the PM is today in an advanced stage of implementation. Assistance has been extended to Afghanistan, Bangladesh, Bhutan, Maldives, Nepal and Sri Lanka,” he added. Pakistan had earlier this week declined an invite to join a Saarc video conference on likely impact of Covid-19 on trade in the region. It had said such activities should only be led by the Saarc secretariat. India believes though that by involving the secretariat, Pakistan is only looking to stifle the Saarc Covid initiative with procedural formalities. The government also said India is working to provide humanitarian aid in the form of medicines and other items, including hydroxychloroquine, paracetamol, to Saarc countries and also to Mauritius and Seychelles in the Indian Ocean.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/at-last-pakistan-contributes-to-saarc-fund-but-india-is-not-impressed/articleshow/75089640.cms||---
April 11, 2020||World||At last, Pakistan contributes to Saarc fund but India is not impressed||NEW DELHI: After Pakistan on Thursday announced $3 million for Saarc Covid-19 Emergency Fund, India responded by saying that the “degree of seriousness of each (Saarc) nation can be gauged by their behaviour”. Pakistan is not only the last Saarc country to contribute to the fund but it also said that the amount be administered by the Saarc secretariat. “It is for each Saarc member-state to decide on the timing, manner and implementation of their Saarc Covid-19 Emergency Response Fund commitments,” said MEA spokesperson Anurag Srivastava. “Where India is concerned, the commitment made by the PM is today in an advanced stage of implementation. Assistance has been extended to Afghanistan, Bangladesh, Bhutan, Maldives, Nepal and Sri Lanka,” he added. Pakistan had earlier this week declined an invite to join a Saarc video conference on likely impact of Covid-19 on trade in the region. It had said such activities should only be led by the Saarc secretariat. India believes though that by involving the secretariat, Pakistan is only looking to stifle the Saarc Covid initiative with procedural formalities. The government also said India is working to provide humanitarian aid in the form of medicines and other items, including hydroxychloroquine, paracetamol, to Saarc countries and also to Mauritius and Seychelles in the Indian Ocean.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//world/pakistan/at-last-pakistan-contributes-to-saarc-fund-but-india-is-not-impressed/articleshow/75089645.cms||---
April 11, 2020||Patna||Step up vigil in Siwan, other hotspots in Bihar: CM Nitish Kumar to officials||PATNA: Chief minister (CM) Nitish Kumar on Friday asked chief secretary Deepak Kumar and other senior officials to step up vigil in Siwan and all other places where Covid-19 positive cases were detected in large number. The CM, who held a review meeting to take stock of the situation arising out of Covid-19 outbreak in the state, asked the officials concerned to take appropriate measures according to protocol in the affected areas and make people aware about the importance of maintaining social distancing. “People who have returned to Bihar from different parts of the country and abroad should not hide their travel history and go to the nearest test centre for having a proper test. If people hide their travel history, they will not only put themselves in danger, but also the others,” the CM said. He made a fervent appeal to people to obey the directives being issued by the health officials. He asked the health officials to ensure comprehensive screening of maximum people in those areas where positive cases of Covid-19 were detected. “Launch a massive campaign to trace all contacts of positive cases and conduct proper screening of people who came in contact with them,” Nitish told the health officials. He also asked the health officials to take necessary steps to open testing centres at more places to enhance the testing capacity. ‘Maintain social harmony’: CM Nitish Kumar on Friday asked chief secretary Deepak Kumar and DGP Gupteshwar Pandey to ensure that rumours about Covid-19 epidemic was not spread anywhere in the state. “People should not be misguided. There is a need to maintain the environment of mutual love, social harmony and brotherhood in the society in these challenging times,” the CM said while urging people not to pay attention to rumours.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/step-up-vigil-in-siwan-other-hotspots-nitish-to-officials/articleshow/75087151.cms||Madan Kumar
April 11, 2020||Patna||Tuberculosis machines modified for Covid-19 tests in Bihar||PATNA: The state health department will use tuberculosis (TB) testing machines with certain modifications to speed up sample testing for Covid-19. Lab technicians will be trained for that from Saturday, state health department additional secretary Kaushal Kishor said on Friday. Presently, test for TB is done at Darbhanga Medical College and Hospital, Jawahar Lal Nehru Medical College and Hospital (JLNMCH) at Bhagalpur, Indira Gandhi Institute of Medical Sciences and Tuberculosis Demonstration and Training Centre in Patna. “TB machines can be used for testing RNA, provided we add a testing kit (cartridge) to it. We have asked Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) to supply us those kits and tentatively we will begin testing for Covid-19 at these centres in a week,” Kishor said. He said the process will be slightly different from reverse transcription polymerase chain reaction (RTPCR). The state health department had even asked ICMR to permit them to carry out Covid-19 test at Anugrah Narayan Magadh Medical College and Hospital at Gaya, Sri Krishna Medical College and Hospital at Muzaffarpur, JLNMCH at Bhagalpur and AIIMS-Patna. When asked whether the department was planning to rope in private labs and hospitals also, Kishor said, “Private entities here do not fulfil the criteria set by ICMR, which includes National Accreditation Board for Testing and Calibration Laboratories accreditation.” Presently, Covid-19 test is being conducted in Bihar at Rajendra Memorial Research Institute of Medical Sciences (RMRI), IGIMS), DMCH and Patna Medical College and Hospital. Meanwhile, principal secretary (health) Sanjay Kumar said total 5,457 Covid-19 tests had been conducted in the state till Friday morning. Of them, 4145 tests had been done at RMRI, 930 at IGIMS, 233 at DMCH and 149 at PMCH. Relief for thalassemia patients: State Health Society has asked people, especially those suffering from thalassemia, to dial the toll-free number 102 to inform about blood shortage and their requirement. As per the press release shared by SHS, the government has a stock of 2700 units of blood in its blood banks and have asked needy people to get in touch with them.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/tb-machines-modified-for-covid-tests-in-bihar/articleshow/75087174.cms||Sheezan Nezami
April 11, 2020||Patna||East Central Railway to manufacture PPE kits for hospitals||PATNA: Faced with shortage of personal protective equipment (PPE) kits, the railways has decided to manufacture them at the carriage repair workshop in Harnaut and the mechanical workshop in Samastipur. The Railway Board had recently directed the East Central Railway (ECR) to start manufacturing PPE kits for doctors and nurses treating Covid-19 patients at railway hospitals under its jurisdiction. ECR chief public relations officer (CPRO) Rajesh Kumar told this newspaper that at least 1,000 PPE kits were being manufactured at the Jagadhri workshop in Haryana every day and supplied to all zones, including the ECR. “We have received altogether 269 PPE kits so far. Of these, 120 will be handed over to the Danapur divisional railway hospital, 100 to the Karbigahiya superspecialty hospital in Patna, 35 to the Dhanbad hospital and 14 to the Pt Deendayal Upadhyaya railway hospital,” the CPRO said. He added, “As per the Board’s advisory, the Harnaut and Samastipur workshops will manufacture PPE kits and hand over 50% of them to other government hospitals in Bihar.” Danapur divisional railway manager (DRM) Sunil Kumar claimed that all railway hospitals were ready to meet the challenges of Covid-19. “At present, the railways has set up 219 beds for the purpose of isolating Covid-19 suspects. Besides, the Danapur railway hospital has received 50 sample collection kits from the Rajendra Memorial Research Institute of Medical Sciences in Patna and is likely to start collecting patients’ samples soon,” Kumar said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/ecr-to-manufacture-ppe-kits-for-hospitals/articleshow/75087254.cms||Kumod Verma
April 11, 2020||Kolkata||West Bengal: After lockdown, air fares to pinch pockets||KOLKATA: Once domestic flight operations resume post-lockdown, air travel will be at least 50% more expensive than before with airlines forced to cut passenger capacity on flights by 30%-40% to ensure social distancing between flyers. Airlines industry sources said fares would escalate as airlines keep the middle row empty, accommodating four passengers in place of six in each row. Also, the last three rows have to be kept empty to move isolated passengers in case someone is detected with Covid-19 symptoms during the flight. While low cost carriers like IndiGo and SpiceJet operated at 100% capacity with 180 passengers in Airbus A320 or Boeing B737-800 aircraft, they will now be able to take only 108 passengers on board. “Flying after the lockdown is withdrawn will be a new experience with multiple measures to ensure distancing norms so that flying is perceived safe. Airlines have to use more coaches to transfer groups of passengers to planes parked in remote bays. On the flight, service of food and beverage will be restricted. The former means more expenditure for the airline, the latter less revenue,” a senior official of a private carrier pointed out. Senior management of all airline are, however, worried about dip in passenger figures once fares rise. “Some airlines have not been able to making operating profits despite flying with high loads because they had to keep fares low to be competitive. Now, with over 30% less capacity, how much can fares be increased without discouraging passengers to fly. Going back to fares prior to 2003 in the pre-LCC era could reverse the growth that the airline industry has been witnessing in India for the past 17 years,” said an official, adding that the industry was hoping for financial help from the government. DGCA has hinted at a phase-wise opening of the sky with a quarter of flights being introduced across time slots to ensure there is no crowding in the airport terminals. In Kolkata, operations could resume with only 75-80 flights a day and slowly ramped up over the weeks as Covid-19 cases subside. But when that will happen is anyone’s guess with the government announcing extension of flight suspension till April-end. Airlines though continue to sell tickets for this month, arguing that no notification has been issued from the DGCA yet. The ticket sales had been opened on April 6 and witnessed a flurry of buying initially but has now reduced to a trickle. “Indian carriers other than AirAsia India are not offering fare refunds even if t”he airline does not operate the flight. They are instead waiving reschedule charges or offering credit note against which tickets can be purchased later. Only some international carriers like Singapore Airlines, Lufthansa, Qatar and Emirates are giving refunds. We think it is, therefore, best to wait till there is more clarity on operations. Or one can make travel plans three-four months from now," said Travel Agents’ Federation of India chairman (east) Anil Punjabi.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/after-lockdown-air-fares-to-pinch-pockets/articleshow/75088590.cms||---
April 11, 2020||Patna||SSB intelligence input to W Champaran DM rages storm at India-Nepal border||BETTIAH: An unverified intelligence input by the Sashastra Seema Bal (SSB) to the West Champaran DM and SP raged a storm on Friday. Quoting ‘very reliable’ unnamed sources, the commandant of the SSB 47th battalion at Pantokha outpost in Ramgharwa, East Champaran, in his letter to the West Champaran top officials on April 3, stated that one Jaalim Mukhiya of Nepal, involved in arms and FICN smuggling, “is planning to spread corona pandemic in India”. His signature illegible, the SSB officer categorically claimed: “Further, he (Jaalim Mukhiya) has taken the responsibility to cross (sic) Indian Muslim nationals working in different muslim countries during lockdown.” He quotes his source to alert the authorities that “around 200 Indian Muslim nationals (working in muslim countries) along with 5 to 6 Pakistani nationals have arrived in Nepal via Kathmandu and presently residing in mosques or madarsas at village Chandanbarsa and Khairwa in Nepal.” The letter adds: “As per source 40 to 50 more suspected Indian muslim nationals will arrive today (3rd April) and more in the coming days.” The SSB commandant raises the alert with the claim, “As per source, these nationals are consuming Paracetamol tablets for lowering their temperature on the way and they may be corona active.” West Champaran DM Kundan Kumar, on April 7, wrote a letter to the SPs of Bagaha and Bettiah along with the BDOs of Gaunaha, Mainatar, Sikta and Bagaha-2, reproducing the gist of the SSB input. The DM advised extreme alert and severe action against any suspicious activity. “We just raised our alert levels on the input. Our borders are completely sealed,” the DM said. SSB DIG Rajesh Tikkoo rubbished the SSB letter itself. “Aisi koi chhitthi nahi hai (There is no such letter),” he told this reporter. When offered to read out the contents of the commandant’s letter, Tikkoo backtracked: “I have no such information.” He hung up when asked if Chandan Bara and Khairwa are in Nepal as claimed by the commandant in his note. Chandan Bara is in Dhaka block while Khairwa is in Chaura Daano block in East Champaran. Close to the Nepal border, they are home to madrassas. Chandan Bara madrassa is closed since March 14, sources said, adding that the East Champaran police had carried search operations at both the madrassas on April 4 and found them closed. Bihar DGP Gupteshwar Pandey, meanwhile, said the SPs and DMs of seven districts bordering Nepal have been alerted. “Let me assure you that till date there have been no reports of infiltration,” Pandey said. Meanwhile, talking to local TV channels and web portals from his home in Jaganathpur village in Nepal’s Parsa district on Friday, Mukhiya called it a political conspiracy. Mukhiya spoke of the ‘roti-beti’ relationship between the two countries. “This is a conspiracy by some political people,” he wrote on his Facebook page, asking: “China, America, Italy, France, Africa, Asia me ... sabey jagah Jaalim Mian corona failaley (everywhere...has Jaalim Mian spread the virus)?” He further stated: “I am the local government...the mayor (of his village panchayat) ... with 200 volunteers, I’ve coordinated the cross-border movement with the SSB (too).” He asserted that he has written to the (Nepal) government to unravel the conspiracy. Said to have been associated with the Nepali Congress during the Monarchy, Mukhiya changed political colours with the advent of democracy. He is now said to have joined the ranks of the Communist Party of Nepal.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/ssb-intelligence-input-to-w-champaran-dm-rages-storm-at-india-nepal-border/articleshow/75087309.cms||Abhay Mohan Jha
April 11, 2020||Ahmedabad||Voices from locked down planet||Ahmedabad: A large number of Gujaratis live across the globe. TOI speaks to some of them to get a sense of their lockdown experiences.Darshil Jani, hotel management studentWarsaw, PolandTill about 40 days ago, Darshil Jani used to work freelance to meet his expenses. The lockdown has dried up work. “It is not pleasant when the pockets are empty,” he said. “It’s my last semester and I had booked tickets to India for March 18. But the borders were sealed because of the Covid pandemic and I am stuck here.” Jani has been taking his last semester classes online. “I stay indoors and step out only to buy essentials,” he said. “The rules here are really strict and cops impose a hefty fine if you are found loitering.” ---Lavesh Chauhan, software professionalBerlin, GermanyLavesh Chauhan has been living in Berlin under lockdown since March 19. “We are allowed to go out to buy essentials, visit our doctor, and even take exercise,” Chauhan said. “The only condition is that we should venture out alone or only with someone with whom we live.” Chauhan said he is taking the opportunity to learn something new. The lockdown in Berlin is expected to remain in place till April 19. “We can move out for work-related trips, as long as we maintain social distancing,” he said. “It’s a difficult situation but health and safety come before anything else.”Rushi Vyas, software professionalSeattle, the USThe initial two weeks were tough for Rushi, who felt trapped inside the house. Eventually, he got used to it. “Seattle reported the first case as well as death in the US and thus, restrictions on movements were imposed in early March here,” he said. “I’ve been working from home since March 2 and I haven’t stepped out at all. We order groceries and other essentials online and you’re good to go. It is wise to stay indoors and be safe rather than put yourself and others at risk.” He went on to say: “Much of my time is spent working.” ----Kailasi Mota, Chartered Accountant, Nairobi, KenyaKailasi Mota has been working from home for a week, ever since Kenya closed its airports and sealed borders. “Till date, 176 people have tested positive and six deaths have been recorded,” Mota said. “Wearing masks has been made compulsory. Most government offices, educational institutes, malls and restaurants have been closed.” People face problems, Mota said. “But Gujarati organizations have stepped in and are making arrangements for those who have been stranded here.” Mota went on to say: “The lockdown period will last till April 22 at least. We feel this is just the beginning. I am getting used to staying at home.”---Munaf Sadulla, postal department worker, the UKMunaf Sadulla lives in East London with his family and works at a post office. His branch has been closed, though the postal department falls under the essential service category in the UK. His branch has redirected customers to other branches. He has been at home since March 24. “Here the government prepared a plan, offered various packages, passed laws in the parliament and then implemented the lockdown,” Sadulla said. “We do not meet anybody nowadays. We can, but we have decided not to venture out unless it is unavoidable. Religious places have been shut.”(NO PIC, PLZ USE LONDON’S REPRESENTATIONAL PIC)----||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/voices-from-locked-down-planet/articleshow/75088316.cms||---
April 11, 2020||Varanasi||Village head shot by unidentified men||Varanasi: The gram pradhan of Mahdauda village Manoj Yadav (35) was shot at by identified men in Balua police station area in Chandauli district on Thursday night. He succumbed to his injuries during treatment at the Trauma Centre of Banaras Hindu University on Friday morning. According to reports, two men on a motorbike shot at him around 8 pm while he was headed to somewhere. soon after, the duo fled the scene. The residents of Balua informed the police immediately. The police took him to the Chandauli district hospital where he was referred to BHU Trauma Centre after primary treatment. He died on Friday morning during treatment. The body was sent for postmortem. A manhunt had been launched and the investigation is underway, said poli d.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/varanasi/village-head-shot-by-unidentified-men/articleshow/75088319.cms||---
April 11, 2020||Business||UK fintech co ClearScore to shut India ops||Mumbai: UK-based fintech company ClearScore has said it will shut its India business effective April 13, within a year of starting operations, due to the financial impact of the Covid-19 pandemic. This could be the first instance of a fintech company shutting down due to the coronavirus. ClearScore India was launched in September 2019 and offered a suite of services that allowed users to check and learn about their credit score for free, compare pre-approved credit offers and obtain loans and credit cards online instantly. Speaking to TOI, ClearScore country manager (India) Hrushikesh Mehta said the uncertainty due to the pandemic forced them to take the decision to shut operations. According to Mehta, the business made money whenever a customer availed a loan using its platform. The lockdown meant lender partners couldn’t staff their call centres and new loans dried up. The Indian arm, run by a team of six, serviced 16 lakh users and was dependant on its UK parent for funding. “It becomes very difficult to sustain a business, where you have to spend a lot of money upfront and earn later. We came very close to making it viable, we were only a quarter or two away,” Mehta said. “Three weeks ago, we were very optimistic. And then suddenly the UK started locking down, India as well, and lenders started pulling out. In a week, we were barely making any money. And there was no line of sight as to when this would change. Lenders also revised policies, which meant fewer people would get loans,” Mehta said. According to an emailed notice to customers, ClearScore will delete users’ credit data but hold on to contact information in case it reopens in India later.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/uk-fintech-co-clearscore-to-shut-india-ops/articleshow/75089094.cms||Aseem Gujar
April 11, 2020||Kolhapur||Shelter homes in Kolhapur host over 800 citizens||Kolhapur: Over 800 migrants have been placed in shelter homes in the district across 15 different venues, district collector Daulat Desai said, adding that they have been put under institutional quarantine at these shelter homes. The shelter homes have been set up across the city as well as Kagal, Hatkanagale, Wathar, Ichalkaranji, Jaysingpur, Gadhinglaj, and Gaganbawda areas in the district. According to Desai, around 228 migrants are from Maharashtra while 580 are from other states, the maximum ones belonging to Karnataka. There are 215 from Karnataka, 198 from Tamil Nadu, 80 from Rajasthan, 29 from Uttar Pradesh, and 44 from Madhya Pradesh, among others, he said. They are being provided with adequate meal and other facilities, officials from the health department said. According to district administration officials, the responsibilities of taking care of these migrants is given to respective nodal officers of the specific areas. If the shelter home is in a rural area, the village-level committees look into it and of the shelter home is in an urban area, the corporation looks into it. Earlier, divisional commissioner of Pune Dipak Mhaisekar said that his office had started around 170 shelter homes across Sangli, Satara, and Kolhapur districts for migrant workers and homeless people. These homes were said to have accommodation capacity of around 50,000. The media brief from Mhaisekar had stated that, in Kolhapur district, such shelters could host 46,410 people.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolhapur/shelter-homes-in-kolhapur-host-over-800-citizens/articleshow/75089110.cms||---
April 11, 2020||Business||Kirana-supplying B2B cos see orders rise 60%||Digbijay Mishra & Madhav Chanchani | TNN Bengaluru: India’s business-to-business (B2B) commerce startups like Udaan, Jumbotail, WayCool and Ninjacart — which supply groceries and vegetables to tens of thousands of kiranas — are seeing a 40-60% spike in demand. The development comes as India’s 12 million neighbourhood kiranas have proved to be more trustworthy for essentials since online grocery players and even supermarkets have struggled to meet increasing demand due to issues ranging from manpower shortage to supply chain bottlenecks. But these companies said that only 30-50% of the kiranas in their network are operating right now, which is leading to a larger spike in the business of those which remain open. “While the frequency of orders that we get from kiranas has remained the same, the ticket size of the orders is 2-3x times normal now,” said Ashish Jhina, founder of Jumbotail, which supplies groceries to 24,000 kirana stores across Bengaluru. He added that many kiranas said their traditional distributors are not showing up. “These stores are located next to the house and, given that they are a small family run business, their ability to deal with shocks is much better.” WayCool Foods, which supplies 10,000 kiranas across South India, has seen a 40-60% increase in staples and a 20-30% increase in demand for fresh vegetables. Kiranas, which used to order once in two weeks, are now asking for replenishments every week given the increase in business. “Demand from these stores is usually determined by cash flows that they have. Some stores which are open can purchase more frequently,” said Karthik Jayaraman, co-founder of WayCool. Some of these startups are also coming up with innovative solutions. Udaan has piloted an application where gated communities can bulk-order a pre-decided package of essentials, while Jumbotail has been getting requests to open its branded J24 stores inside residential complexes. But even as demand spikes, according to Udaan’s Sujeet Kumar, the ability to fulfil the increasing load remains tough as labour issues remain. Udaan is still operating at only 50-60% of its capacity. Udaan, valued at $2.8 billion and which supplies products to 3 million small merchants, said that another issue is changing the definition of essentials. These companies, which also work directly with farmers, also see other problems. Ninjacart CEO Thirukumaran Nagarajan added farmers are delaying sowing new crops as they wait for a clearer picture to emerge about restrictions on movement after April 14. “Supply chain issues are almost resolved. But 40-50% of kirana stores are not operating. On consumption side also, there is an overall dip as many have moved out of the cities,” said Nagarajan. The startup, backed by Flipkart and Tiger Global, is operating at 70-90% of its average daily capacity, delivering to 10,000-12,000 clients or small shops.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/kirana-supplying-b2b-cos-see-orders-rise-60/articleshow/75089184.cms||Digbijay Mishra
April 11, 2020||Business||NBFCs risk not repaying Rs 1.75L crore||Mumbai: Debt worth Rs 1.75 lakh crore, maturing by June 2020, may be at risk of not being paid if the RBI does not move quickly to clarify that the moratorium package available to banks should be extended to non-banking finance companies (NBFCs) also. Two credit rating agencies — Crisil and Acuite — have raised red flags. They point out that for NBFCs, which now mostly depend on bank funding with other channels nearly non-operational, may find the going extremely tough if the moratorium benefits are not extended to these lenders as well. Currently, mutual funds are not buying NBFC papers as they are facing redemption pressure. Additionally, the RBI’s special window for targeted long-term repo operations (TLTROs) are crowded with government and corporates also joining in to get money. This, in effect, is crowding out the lower rated NBFCs from availing of the facility. In such a situation, NBFCs have to give moratorium to their borrowers without having a similar recourse from banks or availability of alternate easy funding routes, industry players said. The report by Crisil pointed out that according to its estimates, if no moratorium on bank debt is extended, 11% of NBFCs don’t even have one-time liquidity cover for total debt repayments up to May 31, 2020. A liquidity cover of less than one time indicates inability to make debt repayments according to schedule and in full without the benefit of collections, external support, or access to additional credit lines or funding. And if business disruptions continue to June 30, 2020, then about 25% of NBFCs will have a liquidity cover of less than 1, with debt obligations aggregating to Rs 1.75 lakh crore. Another report, by Acuite, noted that the immediate implication for the retail NBFCs is the lack of clarity on their debt-servicing ability in the near term. “With collections coming to a standstill…the primary cash flows of the NBFCs have been completely disrupted. While we can presume that most banks will provide back-to-back moratorium, there is no indication that it will be applicable for the non-bank lenders or investors unless there are specific bilateral arrangements. This implies that the bond holders, CP investors and also the FD holders in all likelihood, will insist on maintaining the existing repayment schedule,” the report said. In addition to extending back-to-back moratorium to NBFCs by banks, the RBI could also open a special LTRO facility where only those NBFCs could participate that have ratings of AA or lower. This would ensure that the ones which need money the most could also get it, industry players said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/nbfcs-risk-not-repaying-rs-1-75l-crore/articleshow/75089250.cms||Partha Sinha
April 11, 2020||Surat||Irked Navsari fishermen attacks police vehicle over home quarantine order||Surat: A fisherman from Navagam village in Navsari’s Vejalpore taluka pelted stones on the police vehicle irked over the compulsory home quarantine order upon his return from Okha. He even injured a policewoman on the head who was inside the vehicle going to deliver food to the police personnel deployed at the village late on Wednesday night.As assistant sub inspector (ASI) with Vejalpore police station in Navsari district, Meena Tandel was given the task to deliver food packets to the GRD jawans deployed at the Navagam outpost. She was travelling in the police vehicle with two other constables when a person suddenly appeared on the deserted road and started pelting stones on the vehicle.Police sources said that the stone hit the ASI’s head and she had to be rushed to the hospital for primary treatment. Vejalpur cops also arrested the accused on Thursday afternoon.The accused fisherman identified as Suman Halpati, 50, a resident of Sattar Gala locality in Navagam, was among the 70 fishermen who had arrived from Okha on March 23. On their arrival at Navsari, they were kept in strict home quarantine to contain the spread of coronavirus under the vigil of the police. His home quarantine period ended on Wednesday and was thus out to take revenge on the police. Talking with TOI, S Salunke, a police sub inspector of Vejalpore police station said, “The accused revealed that he was frustrated with the police for keeping him locked up inside his house for 14 days. After his quarantine period ended on April 9, he wanted to take revenge. When he spotted the police vehicle, he pelted stones and escaped from the spot.”Salunke added that the woman ASI received six stitches on the wound received from the stone pelting. “The accused has been arrested and investigations are going on,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/irked-navsari-fishermen-attacks-police-vehicle-over-home-quarantine-order/articleshow/75088543.cms||---
April 11, 2020||Business||IBM’s Kapoor is first Indian woman Fellow||Bengaluru: Shalini Kapoor of IBM India is among 12 IBMers from around the world who have been honoured as a Fellow, the highest designation for the iconic company on its technical ladder. She is the first woman Fellow to come out of IBM India. Last year, Ram Viswanathan became the first Fellow in IBM to emerge from its India operations. Kapoor is currently a distinguished engineer and director of Watson IoT India and IBM cognitive applications. She did a BTech in computer science from Lucknow university, and then a Master’s in information management & systems from SP Jain Institute of Management & Research. She worked for three years with HCL, joined IBM in 2000. Two other Indian-origin technologists are also part of the 12 Fellows this year. These include Ajay Apte, distinguished engineer, IBM Cloud, and Kailash Gopalakrishnan, distinguished research staff member and senior manager of accelerator architectures and machine learning. Apte did his BE in computers from Mumbai University, and Gopalakrishnan did a BTech in electrical and electronics engineering. Both are now in the US.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/ibms-kapoor-is-first-indian-woman-fellow/articleshow/75089122.cms||---
April 11, 2020||Patna||Bihar: No migrant worker tests positive so far||PATNA: Much to the relief of the state government and common people, none of the migrant workers who returned to Bihar from different parts of the country after the announcement of 21-day lockdown by PM Narendra Modi on March 24, has so far been tested positive for coronavirus. Concerns were raised after thousands of migrant workers returned to the state from Delhi and other states despite the state government’s appeal to them to stay where they are. These migrant workers were later asked to stay at isolation centres in their respective villages or district headquarters for 14 days as a precautionary measure. Health department’s state surveillance officer and nodal officer for Covid-19 Ragini Mishra said no migrant worker has so far been tested positive for Covid-19. “Samples of 2,858 people, who returned to Bihar from abroad, have so far been tested. Of them, 31 were found positive for Covid-19. Efforts are on to track the remaining foreign returnees and test their samples,” she added. Mishra said multiple agencies are involved in tracing and contacting those who had returned from abroad between the last week of January and March. Disaster management department principal secretary Pratyaya Amrit said the government has database of 1,92,376 migrant workers who returned to the state from different parts of the country after the lockdown. “We had introduced a mobile application, ‘Garura’, for tracking migrant workers,” he added. Amrit said the migrant workers are screened if they show up coronavirus symptoms like fever, cough and respiratory problems. At least 32,000 migrant workers are staying at isolation camps set up in 3,198 schools across the state.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/no-migrant-worker-tests-ve-so-far/articleshow/75087207.cms||Debashish Karmakar
April 11, 2020||Patna||Coronavirus suspects quarantined in isolation camps stay at home in Bihar||PATNA: The state administration is grappling with another problem while dealing with coronavirus suspects kept in the isolation camps, especially in remote areas of the state. There have been reports of corona suspects fleeing from isolation camps and staying with their family members at night. Sample this. Altogether 33 people were quarantined at a government school at Kala diara under Bakhtiyarpur block in Patna district. When mediapersons visited the camp on Tuesday noon, only eight were found there. Locals said that majority of those quarantined at the camp were migrant workers who had returned home. “While some leave the camp to harvest rabi crops in nearby villages, others prefer to stay with their families at night. They return to the camp before the medical team’s visit for mandatory test,” said a local resident on the condition of anonymity. Some of the corona suspects blamed the lack of toilets and drinking water facilities for staying away from the camp at night. This is not an isolated case. In East Champaran, altogether 27 migrant workers kept at a village school under Jogapatti block were found missing when a medical team visited the isolation camp a couple of days ago. Similarly, some migrant workers fled from quarantine centres at Sherghati in Gaya district and Madanpur block in Auangabad district. The problem became more complex when a group of antisocials attacked an isolation camp in Samastipur district and injured three of the 10 people quarantined there. Earlier, a group of suspects indulged in altercation with some paramedical staff in Saharsa district when the latter turned down the their plea to release them from the hospital after their test reports had been found negative. According to a rough estimate, around 1.80 lakh migrant workers have returned to Bihar from different states like Maharashtra, Delhi, Punjab, Haryana, Uttar Pradesh, Madhya Pradesh, Tamil Nadu, Kerala and West Bengal. A little over 27,000 of them have been quarantined at 3,115 isolation camps set up in the government schools and panchayat buildings across the state. When asked about some of the corona suspects staying with family members and posing a danger to others, a senior health department official said, “Monitoring of the suspects kept in the isolation camps is the job of the police and the home department officials. We have to conduct screening of the suspects and carry out required medical tests.” He, however, admitted that the facilities at some of the quarantine centres were not up to the mark. “We are already preoccupied. Let other departments do their jobs,” he said. ADG (headquarters) Jitendra Kumar said village chaukidars have been roped in to keep a tab on those kept in the isolation camps in remote areas. In addition, local police stations have been alerted after such complaints were received from a few centres, he said. About the ransacking of the quarantine centre in Siwan, the ADG said action had been taken against the culprits. “FIRs have been lodged and the accused will face the legal consequences after completion of their 14-day quarantine period,” he said. He, however, refuted the reports of discrimination in serving food to people belonging to minority community at those camps. Meanwhile, the government has asked the mukhiyas and related panchayat functionaries to make arrangements for food and sanitary facilities for those quarantined at the government schools and panchayat buildings in rural areas. Even funds were released by the state government for the purpose. “There is more to it than meets the eye,” said one Navin Kumar while summing up the scene at an isolation camp under Bhore block in Gopalganj district.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/quarantined-in-camps-but-staying-at-home/articleshow/75087263.cms||Ramashankar
April 11, 2020||Surat||Surat: One arrested for recording, sharing hate audio in Valsad||SURAT: Dharampur police arrested a 23-year-old man on Friday for allegedly recording and circulating a hate audio message on social media. Police investigation revealed that the audio was mixed with a video which was shared on the social media platform after which it went viral. Police arrested Hiren Rathod, a resident of Dharampur, for on charges of inciting the public with his hate audio message. In the audio Rathod allegedly claimed that around 20 to 25 terrorists of a specific community have entered Valsad and have spread themselves across the villages and are preparing to attack people in the district at night. “The accused had recorded audio only. However, someone else added video to the audio and uploaded it on YouTube. It became a more serious crime and the video link was shared widely,” said a senior police officer in Valsad. “Police are searching for the person who made the video using the accused’s audio. The video will be removed from internet soon,” the officer added. After tracing the source of the audio message when police identified the accused, he claimed that he did it for fun and didn’t imagine it will go viral like this.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/one-arrested-for-recording-sharing-hate-audio-in-valsad/articleshow/75088528.cms||---
April 11, 2020||Patna||Bihar: Indonesian group on radar after 4 Begusarai youths test positive||PATNA: After four youths tested positive for coronavirus in Begusarai, the state government is trying to trace the footprints of 10 Indonesian nationals, who allegedly stayed and attended gatherings at five mosques in the district before the nationwide lockdown was implemented. While none of these youths have any travel history, they attended gatherings at a mosque in Kaidarabad that this group of Indonesians frequented. However, it is not known if the foreigners were Covid-19 positive. “Even though the timeline of stay of the 10 Indonesian nationals and the four youths who have tested positive is different, but the probability is that the youths might have contacted the virus from these foreigners due to common place of stay. Things would be clearer after tests of other people in the area,” Begusarai DM Arvind Kumar Gupta told TOI over phone. He added, “Six places in Bacchwara and Mansoorchak blocks in Begusarai have been sealed where these foreigners had visited. The four youths who had tested positive had visited a mosque in Kaidarabad after the Indonesian nationals had left.” The DM Gupta said the government has contacted the external affairs ministry to trace these Indonesians and get them tested, if they are in the country. “All four infected youths are aged between 15-20 years and are residents of Begusarai. They were stuck inside the mosque at Kaidarabad in Bacchawara block due to lockdown. Residents of the area alerted the administration as they did not belong to Kaidarabad,” Gupta said. He added, “None of them had any travel history but after inquiry it surfaced that the Indonesian nationals had stayed at the mosque. These are the only four active cases in the district.” According to the DM, the foreigners Indonesian nationals had stayed at one mosque at Kaidarabad in Bacchawara block, four mosques in Mansoorchak block and one in Barauni block. “We collected altogether 284 samples from Kaidarabad locality and other areas on Thursday and sent them for testing on priority basis,” he said, adding, the result of samples of 28 people, who had stayed closest to these Indonesian nationals at mosques had come negative on Thursday night. State nodal officer for Covid-19 Dr Ragini Mishra said, “The Indonesian nationals have not been traced or tested positive nor has there been any direct links that the four boys contacted the virus from the Indonesians,” adding, that two youths had gone to the mosque a week after the Indonesians left.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/indonesian-group-on-radar-after-4-bsrai-youths-test-ve/articleshow/75087240.cms||---
April 11, 2020||Patna||Bihar: Probe begins into sexual assault in isolation ward||GAYA: Police have begun investigation into allegations of sexual assault inside the isolation ward of Anugrah Narain Magadh Medical College and Hospital (ANMMCH). Following media reports, the police on Thursday recorded the statement of Phulwa Devi, mother-in-law of the woman, who was allegedly subjected to sexual abuse in the hospital’s isolation ward. On her statement, a formal complaint has been instituted against unknown persons on Friday. As per the woman’s statement, her daughter-in-law had a miscarriage in the third month of her pregnancy in Ludhiana (Punjab). She somehow managed to reach her village under Banke Bazar police station of the district on March 25 amid lockdown. Following complaints of continuous bleeding, she was admitted to the emergency ward of the ANMMCH. As she was a migrant and also showed some symptoms of Covid-19, she was shifted to the isolation ward on April 1 and her sample was sent for test. For two nights, she remained alone in the Isolation ward. Following her negative report for Covid, she was discharged from the isolation ward on April 3. However, she developed complications again and subsequently died at her home on April 6 and was cremated. After her cremation, the mother-in-law told a vernacular daily that on her return from the hospital, her daughter-in-law narrated her ordeal in the isolation ward. According to SSP Rajiv Mishra, City SP Rakesh Kumar was supervising the investigation. “Follow-up action will depend on the outcome of the investigation,” said Mishra. Sources say CCTV footage of the hospital premises and medical records of the deceased woman were being scanned. (The victim's identity has not been revealed to protect her privacy as per Supreme Court directives on cases related to sexual assault)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/probe-begins-into-sexual-assault-in-isolation-ward/articleshow/75087794.cms||---
April 11, 2020||Thiruvananthapuram||Excise seizes 50 bottles of spurious liquor from Aluva during special drive||Kochi: As part of their efforts to enforce the lockdown, the excise department on Friday conducted a drive against illicit liquor sale and seized as many as 50 bottles of spurious liquor from Aluva. According to officials, the seizure was made from Kunnatheri in Aluva. They said the bottles with spurious liquor had fake labels on them. The seizure was conducted by a team led by Aluva excise range inspector T K Gopi. However, none were arrested. Excise officials said they got an empty bottle with a fake label from the area leading to an inquiry. The sleuths then found the bottles hidden in a deserted location. “We would examine if the liquor had any toxic substances in it,” they said. Excise sleuths said brewing illegal liquor and making fake labels are serious offences. They suspect that the bottles were kept for sale during Easter and Vishu. Excise probing the case said they are enquiring if there were are any illicit liquor brewing units that are active at Aluva to take advantage of the unavailability of liquor during the lockdown. Meanwhile, Ernakulam Rural Police on Friday arrested a man who was barred from entering the district under the Kerala Anti-Social Activities Prevention Act, after he was found at Munambom on April 8. Vinu K Sathyan (27) was an accused in several crimes including rape and drug peddling, and was barred from entering the district after he was found to be repeating his offences. Police arrested him under Kerala Epidemic Diseases Ordinance for violating lockdown Meanwhile, south police arrested two persons for misusing the exception given to delivery boys. Two youths who used to deliver food were booked for lockdown violation as they were roaming around on Friday wearing the uniform even as they were not on duty. Rural police on Friday arrested 109 persons for lockdown violations. As many as 121 cases were registered and 57 vehicles were seized by them.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/thiruvananthapuram/excise-seizes-50-bottles-of-spurious-liquor-from-aluva-during-special-drive/articleshow/75087840.cms||---
April 11, 2020||Hubballi||Police intensify measures across Dharwad district||Dharwad: Police have intensified measures to ensure that the rural parts of Dharwad district continue to remain unaffected by Covid-19. While deputy commissioner Deepa Cholan, police commissioner R Dileep and health department staff are concentrating on the thickly populated twin cities, superintendent of police (SP) Vartika Katiyar has made the district police work round-the-clock. The SP is inspecting rural areas even at midnight. Police have set up 16 checkposts in the border villages to monitor the movement of vehicles. The personnel manning these checkposts have been instructed to allow vehicles carrying essential commodities and medicines. Police are conducting meetings with farmers, traders and suppliers of essential commodities, APMC officials and the leaders of various communities to ensure better coordination in the district. “There will be no ban on agricultural activities,” said Vartika. At Alnavar, police are also providing food to migrant workers who came from Goa. An officer said that those whose earnings have stopped due to the lockdown are also being fed. Every day, police are also providing free food to about 200 drivers and cleaners of trucks. “This is a nationwide lockdown and the drivers and cleaners are travelling long distances carrying essential commodities. As a goodwill gesture, we are serving food to them,” said Vartika. The truck crew are also provided sanitisers and masks. “This will continue as long as there is lockdown,” she said. Instead of brute force to make people stay indoors, police have adopted a softer approach of seizing vehicles of those violating the lockdown norms. Over 700 two-wheelers have been seized and a fine of Rs 2.8 lakh collected from the violators. The district police have also been responsible in identifying those who had returned from the Tablighi Jamaat congregation in Delhi and shifting them to quarantine centres.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hubballi/police-intensify-measures-across-dharwad-district/articleshow/75087831.cms||GURURAJ JAMKHANDI
April 11, 2020||Patna||Ambulance driver a saviour for patients||PATNA: Amid the 21-day lockdown to prevent spread of coronavirus, Rajesh Kumar, an ambulance driver, works non-stop to ensure that people needing medical help get the same without hassles. Rajesh (44), who hails from Phulwarisharif, said ambulance drivers always remain on the move and attend medical emergencies, especially during an extraordinary situation like this when coronavirus has assumed alarming proportions in the state and elsewhere in the country. “Panic calling is a major challenge for me and other ambulance drivers in the wake of the Covid-19 outbreak. Since most hospitals have stopped ambulance services, 102 helpline number has witnessed a huge surge in the number of calls,” he said. Rajesh, the only bread-earner in his family, works for 12 hours a day carrying patients from hospitals to their homes and from their homes to the hospitals. “These days, I work at night shift – from 8pm to 8am. Since my wife and two children are dependent on me, I have to go the extra mile to fulfil their necessities,” Kumar said. Asked if the fear of contracting coronavirus strikes him, Rajesh said, “A patient who returned from Kolkata recently had all symptoms of coronavirus. I took him to Patna Medical Hospital and College and then to Nalanda Medical College and Hospital. Even though my ambulance was not authorized to carry corona positive or suspected people, I did not hesitate in taking the patient to NMCH. Though I have received PPE kits and sanitizer from the administration, I still feel for my family members while returning home.” “The situation is very critical. Since ambulance plays an important role in saving someone’s life, I am trying my best to help every patient,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/ambulance-driver-a-saviour-for-patients/articleshow/75087194.cms||Archi Rani
April 11, 2020||Pune||PMPML driver and conductor rush pregnant woman in distress to hospital||(Dated. Picture mailed) Pune: A driver and conductor of a Pune Mahanagar Parivahan Mahamandal Limited (PMPML) bus on Friday came to the rescue of a pregnant woman in distress and took her to the Kamla Nehru hospital in Mangalwar Peth. She had stumbled on to the road near Dhayari along with her infant son after failing to find an ambulance to take her to the hospital. The driver and the conductor waited for two hours till her mother-in-law arrived from Sangli. Then they proceeded for their normal duty. Her husband was not at home when she suddenly developed abdominal pain. Gayatri Sawant, a resident of Gokulnagar near Narhegaon, was writhing in pain on the road when Firoz Khan, driving the PMPML bus, spotted her around 11:30am. Realising that she needed medical attention, Khan stopped the bus and conductor Vijay More asked her about the problem. "Sawant said that she had severe abdominal pain and needed to go to the Kamla Nehru hospital. She told us that she had called the 108 emergency ambulance service five times but received no help. We then called the depot manager at Swargate, Sashikant Gate, who told us to take her to the hospital immediately," Khan said. The bus was on way from Nanded city to Deccan, but Khan decided to take a detour to Manhalwar Peth. "We requested the passengers, who were all on emergency duty, to get off the bus so that we could take her to the hospital. They readily agreed. Meanwhile, Sawant was losing consciousness. We came to know that she was alone at home and her husband and mother-in-law were at Sangli. We got the number of her husband and informed him that we were taking his wife to the hospital," he said. Once at the hospital, More rushed to the emergency and sought urgent medical help. "We waited outside the hospital for two hours after which the woman's mother-in-law arrived. We then left for our normal duty. Sawant is undergoing treatment at the hospital," More said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/pmpml-driver-and-conductor-rush-pregnant-woman-in-distress-to-hospital/articleshow/75089131.cms||Joy Sengupta
April 11, 2020||Kolhapur||Varsity hostels ready with isolation ward set-up: Pro-VC||Kolhapur: The Shivaji University, Kolhapur (SUK) has completed the renovation works at the girls and boys hostel at the Department of Technology (DoT) campus, as per the district administration’s requirement, said D T Shirke, pro-vice chancellor of SUK. “We have RO water plant in the university, so clean water is available on the campus. The 12 students who were in the DoT have been shifted in the other hostels. The three-phase electricity and the UPS connection has been set up to meet the guidelines of isolation ward,” he said. He said that the students’ belongings have been labelled and shifted to secured places under surveillance. All the other requirements asked by the administration authorities have complied. He said that to complete the work suggested by the administrative officials, they had constituted 13 different committees to look after the basic necessities such as safety, health, communication, transportation, among others. Earlier the report of the district administration said that the ICUs and isolation wards with a total strength of 1.476 beds can be set up in various buildings on the university campus. The arrangement was asked to be made in a way that one room will have only one bed. The report had asked the university officials to repair the toilets, doors, windows of the buildings and set up facilities like clean drinking water and communication systems. Meanwhile, Chhatrapati Pramila Raje (CPR) civil hospital has already been converted into Covid-19 hospital. All the in-house patients have been moved to private hospitals and the OPD has been shifted to Seva hospital in Line Bazaar area.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolhapur/varsity-hostels-ready-with-isolation-ward-set-up-pro-vc/articleshow/75089115.cms||---
April 11, 2020||Ahmedabad||Pet parents can’t walk their dogs||Ahmedabad: Ever since the lockdown began, many pet parents in Ahmedabad are struggling to walk their dogs. Some face challenges walking their dogs outside their society compound due to fear of police action, others face restrictions on walking dogs within society compounds. “Societies should allow residents to walk pets within the compound. These are unprecedented circumstances and instead of walking pets outside at the risk of infection, pet owners should be permitted to walk dogs within the society. Of course, the onus is on pet to maintain cleanliness and clean up after their pets,” said Richa Kashyap, a software professional. Charvi Salil, a product designer, said, “I take my dog to a open ground in my society, about 500m from where I stay. I believe in such times, societies should set a precedent and open common terraces for pet parents or at least permit it in the society compound.” Veterinary doctors and behaviourists say dogs need exercise and mental stimulus else they will become restless at home. “A number of dogs who are trained to not ‘do their business’ at home are face problems and need to be taken out. It is best that dogs are taken out in the wee hours for this. Alternatively, they can be made to climb stairs to give them exercise,” said Salomi Gupte, a city-based dog behaviourist. Hiren Thakkar, a city-based veterinary doctor said, “It is important to give exercise to dogs and let them walk, especially breeds that are bigger. Keeping them in not only makes them restless but also isn’t the best for their health. Residential societies should allow dogs to be walked within the society compound.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/pet-parents-cant-walk-their-dogs/articleshow/75088392.cms||Niyati Parikh
April 11, 2020||Ahmedabad||Ensure care available to patients with serious conditions: Congress||Gandhinagar: Leader of opposition Paresh Dhanani, in a letter to deputy chief minister Nitin Patel, said that the state government should make sure hospitals run by private entities and trusts remain open to patients with serious health conditions like cancer and other diseases. He said that most private and trust-run hospitals have stopped functioning due to the lockdown. Dhanani attached a letter from patients of Jivraj Mehta trust hospital in Ahmedabad, who alleged that the dialysis service has been discontinued. He said that every day, about 3,000 persons need dialysis, 300 heart patients need doctors and about 1,500 cancer patients need to consult doctors in the state. He added that the government needs to ensure that these services remain uninterrupted.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/ensure-care-available-to-patients-with-serious-conditions-congress/articleshow/75088374.cms||---
April 11, 2020||Surat||Four TN residents test COVID-19 positive in Bharuch||Surat/Bharuch: After remaining COVID-19 free district since the outbreak, Bharuch recorded four positive cases from Ekhar village in Amod taluka on Thursday.Four persons, who were part of the 11-member jamat group from Tamil Nadu, tested positive for coronavirus, after they completed the home quarantine period on April 9. All the positive patients are asymptomatic and have been shifted to isolation ward of the COVID-19 hospital in Ankleshwar, while 10 others who came in contact with them have been shifted to the quarantine facility in Bharuch.Sources in Bharuch’s health department said the reports of other three people—one from Tamil Nadu jamat in Ekhar village and two from the Haryana Jamat from Jambusar’s Devla Madrassa—were pending.Those who tested positive have been identified as Fayaz Ahmad (39), Adnan BY (25), Arshad Basa K (50) and Rashid Ahmad (27)—all resident of Tamil Nadu.District authorities stated that the jamat members arrived in Bharuch via Mumbai in train on March 12. They reached Ankleshwar and stayed for few days in Bharuch and went to Ekhar village where they stayed in a mosque for the religious activity.The members were identified by the health teams during the surveillance drive on March 22. However, the 11 jamat members were kept under home quarantine in the rented house near the mosque from March 23 as they did not have any symptoms of coronavirus.After the completion of the quarantine period on April 8, the health department took sample of all the 11 people, of which four turned out to be positive.Talking with TOI, district collector, Dr MD Modiya said, “A total of 112 jamat members came from various states and all were under home quarantine. The quarantine period of the 11 from Tamil Nadu got over on April 8, but on testing four of them tested positive.”Dr Modiya added, “They are yet to reveal the truth about their travel history and whether they participated in the markaz event in Nizamuddin (New Delhi). We had identified over 65 people from Bharuch who had gone to Nizamuddin and all are under home quarantine, but none of them have tested positive of COVID-19.”BORDERS OF DOZEN VILLAGES SEALED TILL APRIL 23Surat: The Bharuch district administration launched a massive containment strategy on Friday after four COVID-19 positive cases were detected from Ekhar village in Amod taluka.Bharuch district collector, Dr M D Modiya declared Ikhar, having population of about 7,000, as the containment area and sealed the borders of about a dozen villages in Amod and Bharuch taluka falling under the seven kilometre radius till April 23.A notification declaring the entire Ekhar village area as COVID 19 Containment Area restricting all kinds of movement by the people was issued under the section 30 and section 34 of the National Disaster Management Act on Thursday.Apart from Ikhar, other villages including Occhan, Suthodra, Telod, Matar, Danda, Dora, Kothi and Karena in Amod taluka and Kamboli, Simaliya, Kishnad and Palej of Bharuch taluka, have been declared as core area. The administration has banned the movement of vehicles and people in the Ekhar village and that the residents will be provided with the home delivery of essential commodities.About 25 health teams have been deployed in the Ekhar for door-to-door survey of the residents. These teams will also survey villages falling under seven kilometre radius of Ekhar.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/four-tn-residents-test-covid-19-positive-in-bharuch/articleshow/75088481.cms||---
April 11, 2020||Ahmedabad||Being bored no valid reason to be on road, woman booked||Ahmedabad: People weathering the lockdown, especially those living alone, may have fits of boredom, but being bored is no valid reason to be out on the streets and flout lockdown norms. On Monday, a woman was booked by Sabarmati riverfront (West) police for walking near the riverfront garden and claiming that boredom had pushed her to violate the police notification. According to the FIR registered in the matter by Sabarmati riverfront (West) police, the woman, 37, a resident of Usmanpura, was stopped by cops when she was seen walking near the garden. She told police that she was taking a walk as she had become bored cooped up in her house alone. “The woman works in a private firm and lives alone. She said she tried to cope with the lockdown, but then went for a walk on Friday morning and ended up being booked under Section 188 of IPC,” said a police official. Inspector M A Singh of Sabarmati riverfront (west) police said that the cops were on the lookout for morning walkers flouting lockdown when the woman was spotted. She added, “Two days ago, a man when stopped by the cops said he was a diabetic and some ayurvedic doctor has told him to chew neem leaves so he had gone out to find a neem tree. However, this was not accepted as a valid reason and the man was booked for flouting police notification.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/being-bored-no-valid-reason-to-be-on-road-woman-booked/articleshow/75088435.cms||---
April 11, 2020||Patna||Churches conduct online prayer services on Good Friday||PATNA: Amid the closure of religious places due to the 21-day lockdown, city churches conducted online prayer services on the occasion of Good Friday. They commemorated the crucifixion of Jesus Christ without processions for the “first time in centuries”. Father Junas of Queen of the Apostles Church at Kurji told this newspaper that Good Friday was an important occasion. “We conduct prayer services, processions and several other activities to mark Good Friday and thousands of devotees from across the state throng the church. This year, however, the church is closed due to the nationwide lockdown. Pastors and parish priests, therefore, shared their messages through online platforms and television,” Father Junas said. The Baptist Church, which was also shut, had instructed Patnaites to observe Good Friday at home. Its secretary Amar Aaron said, “Keeping in mind the current situation, the Archbishop and the priest shared video messages with the devotees this year.” All churches prayed for the welfare of the world. Anand Kumar, defence committee member of the Union Church in Khagaul, said, “We prayed for the recovery of all Covid-19 patients and asked devotees to thank the Lord. At a tough time like this, we should have faith and hope.” Meanwhile, Christians across the city observed Good Friday. Boring Road resident Melvin said, “We held a small prayer service at home and listened to live messages from the Archbishop.” Patna City resident Marie Symon said, “This is for the first time in years that all my family members are at home. Although we could not go to the church or participate in processions, we prayed for everyone’s safety.” CM extends wishes: Chief minister Nitish Kumar extended his wishes to Christians and said, “Jesus Christ, through his journey of life, teaches us about ultimate sacrifice, love and faith. His teachings and preaching hold great importance and are significant even in today’s times.” Nitish also urged people to stay at home and maintain social distancing in order to contain the spread of Covid-19.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/churches-conduct-online-prayer-services-on-good-friday/articleshow/75087220.cms||Archi Rani
April 11, 2020||Business||Reinsurers’ policies not to cover pandemics||Mayur Shetty | TNN Mumbai: Most Indian organisers, like the Indian Premier League (IPL), missed out on a pandemic cover for events because the markets started shutting down soon after the outbreak in China. While no one can now buy a pandemic cover since the event has already occurred, international insurers are beginning to exclude coronavirus even from liability covers like Directors & Officers (D&O) policies, which protect managements from being sued. In India, the focus of event cancellation has been largely around weather and terrorist attacks. Given that the country was not impacted by the Swine Flu pandemic or any other outbreaks, no one really sought such a cover. According to insurance broker Howden India’s MD Amit Agarwal, large event insurance covers are customised and — either specifically or silently — exclude a pandemic. A silent exclusion is one where the intent of the policy is to cover certain known risks like weather. “Once the event has occurred, no one will be able to buy pandemic cover. What we are now seeing is that reinsurers are specifically excluding pandemic risks from liability covers like D&O policies,” he said. What this means is that if any of the stakeholders sue the management of a company for any reason that is triggered by the virus, the policy will not cover the defence. “As of now, there are no covers for businesses that cover pandemic outbreaks,” said Subrata Mondal, executive vice-president (underwriting) at IFFCO Tokio General Insurance. “By and large, a lot of reinsurers are excluding pandemic outbreaks across all lines, including liability lines,” he added. According to Mondal, since liability insurance covers are driven by reinsurance, most of these policies are issued more or less on the reinsurer’s terms. Also, unlike motor insurance covers that are a standard document, these policies are more like a bi-partite agreement. While there are no covers for business risks, companies can still look forward to providing protection to their employees. “Employers can look at providing some kind of a Covid cover similar to what the government has done for healthcare workers across the country,” said Agarwal. Several companies are directly selling Covid-19 protection covers to individuals. Reliance General Insurance is offering a group insurance cover that offers the sum insured in the event the policyholder is tested positive for Covid-19. This cover has been purchased by Paytm and Yes Bank for customers who choose to be part of the scheme for a premium. E-tailer Flipkart has partnered two insurers ICICI Lombard and Digit Insurance. Digit Illness Group Insurance offered by Digit Insurance allows consumers to avail a hospitalisation cover up to a sum assured of Rs 1 lakh with an annual premium of Rs 511. Covid-19 Protection Cover by ICICI Lombard provides an instant Rs 25,000 benefit plan paid to the customer on positive diagnosis of Covid-19. It is affordably priced at an annual premium of Rs 159. Marsh Insurance brokers said in a report that, prior to the Covid-19 outbreak, policyholders could generally add back, via endorsement, coverage for communicable diseases that has often been excluded from standard event cancellation policies. Other forms of event cancellation coverage — for example, those related to trade shows, conventions/expositions, and other specific types of events — have typically not addressed communicable diseases. There have been reports of how the All England Lawn Tennis & Croquet Club will recover 114 million pounds of its losses caused by the cancellation of Wimbledon 2020 as it has been continuously purchasing a pandemic cover after the SARS outbreak in 2003. The exposure of organisers, team owners and broadcasters to the IPL is much higher. An even bigger event is the Tokyo Olympics, which is a multi-billion dollar policy, with the organisers themselves having a $800-million cover. The insurance is underwritten by global reinsures Swiss Re, Munich Re and the Lloyd’s market. Both these events are not yet claims as they have been delayed and not officially cancelled.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/reinsurers-policies-not-to-cover-pandemics/articleshow/75089208.cms||Mayur Shetty
April 11, 2020||Business||NBFCs seek to reopen partially in lockdown||Mayur Shetty | TNN Mumbai: With uncertainty over the lockdown being lifted next week, finance companies have written to the home affairs ministry for permission to remain partially open amid the lockdown to cater to the rising financial requirements of a larger segment of lower- and middle-income customers. The Finance Industry Development Council (FIDC) pointed out that banks are working for some hours with limited resources while the funding requirements are growing at a rapid pace. In the finance sector, the government has allowed banks, insurance companies, and stock market intermediaries to continue to function during the Covid-19 lockdown. “NBFC customers are primarily small truck or commercial or passenger vehicle operators who visit our branches for paying loan EMIs in cash,” said Mahesh Thakkar, director-general, FIDC, in the letter. He added they could operate with 30% staff while maintaining social distancing. NBFCs are facing pressure on multiple fronts. Their operations are hit because of the lockdown. They are not able to recover from their borrowers as they have extended a three-month moratorium to creditors in line with RBI’s circular. However, banks are excluding finance companies from the three-month moratorium till end of May, which they are allowing for all other borrowers. Ratings agency Crisil has described this as a “double whammy” for finance companies and issued a credit alert for the sector. “Crisil’s analysis of NBFCs it rates shows liquidity pressure will increase for nearly a quarter of them if collections do not pick up by June 2020. These NBFCs have Rs 1.75 lakh crore of debt obligations maturing by then,” the ratings agency said in a statement. “Given the challenges in access to fresh funding, and presuming nil collections, Crisil’s study underscores that a number of NBFCs will face liquidity challenges if they do not get a moratorium on servicing their own bank loans and are forced to meet all debt obligations on time,” said Krishnan Sitaraman, senior director, Crisil. The Indian Banks Association, justifying the exclusion of finance companies from a moratorium, said that a Rs 1-lakh-crore facility is available through RBI’s targeted long-term repo operations (TLTRO) window. The TLTRO facility allows banks to refinance debt including those to finance companies. “However, only half of that is earmarked for primary issuances. Also, an expected scramble for funds means corporates and government-owned financiers will also be interested in this window. Consequently, only higher-rated NBFCs may end up benefiting,” Crisil said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/nbfcs-seek-to-reopen-partially-in-lockdown/articleshow/75089259.cms||Mayur Shetty
April 11, 2020||Business||Chyawanprash sees boost in demand||Namrata Singh | TNN Mumbai: Chyawanprash, a Rs 700-crore market, has seen an average 30-40% surge in demand over the last one week, industry sources said. Patanjali Ayurved has pegged the growth in its chyawanprash portfolio at over 400% in one month, which is unprecedented. Chyawanprash is a product which is otherwise mostly consumed in winter months and, as an industry source pointed out, this is perhaps for the first time it is seeing a huge offtake in March-April, following the spike in Covid-19 cases in the country. Given the disruption in supply chain, most players are putting in efforts to cater to the increased demand. A thick concoction of herbs with the main ingredient being the Indian gooseberry (amla), chyawanprash is considered to be an immunity booster by proponents of ayurveda. A key reason for the increased demand for chyawanprash could be a recommendation from the ministry of Ayush on consumption of such products to boost immunity in the wake of the Covid-19 epidemic. Dabur India marketing head (healthcare) Mukesh Mishra said, “We are witnessing strong growth in enquiries for Dabur Chyawanprash from across the country. Consumers are today seeking such products to protect themselves. We are now working towards ensuring uninterrupted supplies across markets and channels during the lockdown.” Dabur is the market leader in chyawanprash, with a share of around 60%. Other players include Emami, Baidyanath and Patanjali. A Patanjali Ayurved spokesperson said the company’s chyawanprash has witnessed a growth rate of over 400% between March 6 and April 6 as compared to the preceding month. The increase in demand, said the spokesperson, has been for all its chyawanprash variants, that is, for winter, summer (‘Amrit Rasayan’) and also the sugar-free variant, which is preferred by diabetics. “Due to the disruption in supply chain, we ran out of stock when demand increased. Now that the supply chain is getting back to normal, we are trying our best to make sure consumers get these immunity-boosting products,” said the spokesperson. Looking at the growing demand, Dabur India has advanced the launch of a product based on the ‘tulsi’. Sources said this was earlier slated to be launched in June to target the monsoon season, when the occurrence of coughs and colds is higher. Sources said the company also plans to roll out 4-5 more such products over the next few days.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/chyawanprash-sees-boost-in-demand/articleshow/75089154.cms||Namrata Singh
April 11, 2020||Surat||Veggie markets will be shut if residents flout social distancing norms: civic chief||Surat: Municipal commissioner Banchhanidhi Pani has threatened to shut all the vegetable markets in the city if residents continue to flout social distancing guidelines and flock to the markets without wearing masks.Pani said, “The vegetable market at Pandesara was shut down after huge crowds gathered, flouting social distancing guidelines. People are getting vegetables easily near their houses, still they flock to the markets to purchase vegetables. If people continue to flout norms, we will be compelled to shut all the markets.”Meanwhile, a 27-year-old youth from Rampura and two others tested positive for Covid-19, taking the total number of cases in the city to 25 on Friday.Health officials said Vinod Gavit, 27, a resident of Rampura, tested positive for Covid-19. Gavit is room partner of Sajid Ansari, 40, ambulance driver of Lokhat Hospital, who had earlier tested positive for the virus. Sources said Gavit is now at government quarantine facility at Samras hostel on VNSGU campus. Pani said community sampling drive has been intensified in cluster quarantine areas and other high risk localities for detecting the cases of the deadly virus through local transmission. About 721 samples have been collected and that only one positive case was found from Rander on Wednesday. Reports of 170 samples are pending.Meanwhile, about 11 suspected cases of the virus were admitted in the isolation wards of New Civil Hospital (NCH), Seventh Day Mission Hospital and SMIMER hospital on Thursday. All these patients have no travel history and were admitted with suspected symptoms of the virus.Pani stated that a COVID-19 war room has been started with a view to bring more high risk areas under cluster quarantine. About 24 intern doctors have been posted in the war room under two senior officers of the civic body. About 510 critical cases from the community sampling drive were followed up on Friday and that ARI cases from public and private clinics also checked.According to Pani, the civic body collected Rs23,500 fine from 199 people caught flouting social distancing norms and Rs16,800 fine from 167 people found not wearing mask.COVID-19 MeterTotal suspected cases: 281Total negative cases: 260Total positive cases: 25Reports pending: 8||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/veggie-markets-will-be-shut-if-residents-flout-social-distancing-norms-civic-chief/articleshow/75088489.cms||---
April 11, 2020||Patna||Patna private schools must not seek more than a month’s fee: DM Kumar Ravi||PATNA: District magistrate (DM) Kumar Ravi on Friday sternly instructed private schools not to force parents to pay fee for more than a month during the lockdown period, otherwise strict action would be taken against them. He said the directives were issued in the wake of reports and complaints about many schools asking for three months’ fee at a time. “Even transport and uniform charges should not be demanded for the new academic session as students are not going to school,” the Patna DM said. Ravi said school authorities should also provide all necessary study materials to the students. “We have asked the school authorities to deliver books and other study material to students at their homes and passes will be provided to their authorized vans for the purpose. Besides, the schools should ensure online classes so that students don’t lose on their studies,” he said. Private schools, on the other hand, said parents should understand that this is not a summer or winter vacation. “We never demanded three months’ fee but we definitely expect parents to pay the monthly fee of their kids as they are getting proper classes online. Besides, we have to pay all the teachers who are working day and night to give quality education to students,” said principal of a private school on the condition of anonymity. Meanwhile, several schools claimed they are using the extra amount for providing relief to parents, teachers and other staff. Sharat Kumar, principal of a private school, said they always abide by what authorities say. “We don’t have a policy to ask for three months’ fee in the month of April. Moreover, we are trying to cooperate with parents as much as possible by not pressurizing them to pay fees. If someone is not able to pay, we are not charging them with any late fine. Besides, we have started online and live classes so that the kids do not miss the syllabus,” he said. Parents said it is a very difficult time for them as the lockdown has hit their business and job. Kankarbagh resident Shashank Verma, a parent of two, said he has got unpaid leave from his office and it has become difficult for him to even fulfill the basic needs of his family.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/private-schools-must-not-seek-more-than-a-months-fee-dm/articleshow/75087128.cms||Archi Rani
April 11, 2020||Visakhapatnam||Visakhapatnam: Fishtail palm toddy rescues tipplers in tribal pockets||VISAKHAPATNAM: Although residents of urban and rural areas have been deprived of alcohol following the lockdown, the same is not the case in the tribal pockets. Apart from brewing their own homemade liquor such as rice beer, they have returned to fishtail toddy, which is also known for its herbal and curative properties.The toddy, brewed from fishtail palm tree found in the upper reaches of the Agency, is a popular summer drink. The trees are given on lease by village panchayats to bidders (each tree leased out for as much as Rs 5,000) each summer and it is consumed fresh. There is an added advantage of consuming this drink. Unlike in bars and liquor shops, there is no crowding near fishtail palm trees. People usually take it home in a pot. Interestingly, not everyone is allowed to climb the tree and tap the toddy. As per the prevalent social customs, only the local tribal priest (usually of the Muka Dora community) is allowed to climb to tap the toddy. Gemmili Latchaiah, one such tapper from Sanku-Padu, a hamlet near Sunki, near the Vizianagaram-Odisha border said, “Special prayers are offered to the tree before toddy is tapped. Only the priest who offers prayers climbs up the palm.” Regarding the lease, Latchaiah noted, “The lease is not for one year but for three seasons, minimum. The tapping period usually lasts 10 years till it dies.” ITDA sources said the tapping of toddy is going on without any glitches. The ITDA, Paderu, project officer said, “Tapping and sale of fishpalm toddy does not fall under the purview of the excise department, as a result the activity goes on undeterred.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/visakhapatnam/fishtail-palm-toddy-rescues-tipplers-in-tribal-pockets/articleshow/75087824.cms||Venkatesh Bayya
April 11, 2020||Business||Blue Dart cuts courier prices by 25%||CHENNAI: Blue Dart said it has slashed courier charges by 25% as it sees an opportunity to move goods more in a post-Covid-19 era. This price cut will be applicable to all local retail customers and small businesses. Ketan Kulkarni, CMO and head of business development, said, “This price cut is to enable retail shippers and MSMEs to use the Blue Dart infrastructure to move essentials like medicines, special foods for diabetics, across the country at reduced prices. MSME is one of the top three fastest growing sectors for us and we are adding new customers in double digits.” “The express logistics services provider said it had introduced the initiative - ‘Fight COVID 19 – Price (FC19-P) - to offer a speedy and hassle-free experience in dispatching testing kits, reagents, enzymes, medical equipment (ventilators), masks, respirators, surgical masks, gloves, etc, as the MSME sector was facing challenges delivering these goods to the point of consumption,” a statement said. Blue Dart, part of Deutsche Post DHL Group, operates six Boeing 757 freighters each with a capacity of 34 tonne. These freighters have been operating during the lockdown period across the country enabling essential shipments — medical equipment and pharmaceutical products — to reach the first responders in hospitals, Kulkarni said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/blue-dart-cuts-courier-prices-by-25/articleshow/75088615.cms||Mamtha Asokan
April 11, 2020||Business||Raghuram Rajan in IMF’s Covid policy response group||MUMBAI: Former Reserve Bank of India (RBI) governor Raghuram Rajan has been inducted into IMF MD’s special advisory board for policy responses to Covid-19-induced challenges. On Friday evening, an IMF release said Rajan, currently a professor at University of Chicago, was one of the 12 members of the eminent group from around the world that “draws on high-level policy, market and private sector experience to provide insights to enhance the Fund’s ability to serve its membership.” Earlier, between October 2003 and December 2006, Rajan was IMF’s chief economist. Along with Rajan, there’s Mohamed A El-Erian on the panel. El-Erian, also a former IMF top official and a globally acknowledged debt market guru, is now the chief economic adviser to Allianz group of Germany. Other members include Tharman Shanmugaratnam, senior minister of Singapore and the chief of the Monetary Authority of Singapore; Kristin Forbes, a professor at MIT; Kevin Rudd, former PM of Australia; Carmen Reinhart, a professor at Harvard University and Mark Malloch Brown, former UN Deputy Secretary-General. “To serve our membership well in this context, we need top-notch input and expertise from the widest range of sources, inside and outside the Fund. “Toward this end…an exceptional and diverse group of eminent individuals with high-level policy, market, and private sector experience has agreed to serve on my external advisory group,” Kristalina Georgieva, MD, IMF was quoted in the release.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/rajan-in-imfs-covid-policy-response-grp/articleshow/75089274.cms||---
April 11, 2020||Kolhapur||48 throat swab samples sent in connection with patient who attended Tablighi meet||Kolhapur: The district health department has sent as many as 48 throat swab samples of people in connection with the Covid-19 patient, who attended the Tablighi meet, said district health officer, Yogesh Sale on Friday. He said that their throat swab samples have been sent as a precautionary measure. The throat swab samples have been sent to the Miraj lab in the Miraj Government Medical College and Hospital and the results are likely to be declared by Friday late night or Saturday morning, depending on the rush of samples at the Miraj lab. He said that around 58 minor contacts have been identified, who are kept under institutional quarantine and will be checked for any symptoms. Satej Patil, guardian minister, Kolhapur, told TOI that they are trying to get the exact figures of the number of people who attended Tablighi Jamaat event from the district. The investigation is on. Patil said that there is an ample stock of Personal Protective Equipment (PPE) and the required medicines at the Chhatrapati Pramila Raje (CPR) civil hospital. “We have ordered around 500 PPEs and are targeting to keep the stock at around 25,000 PPEs, as it has to be provided to the private doctors as well, who are supporting us in the Covid-19 treatment,” he said. A 30-year-old man from a village in the Shauwadi taluka in Kolhapur, who attended Tablighi Jamaat event, tested positive for Covid-19. He had reached Kolhapur on March 16 via train and left for Malkapur via private vehicle. He was placed in the institutional quarantine at Panhala on April 1 along with others who had attended the event. His throat swab sample was taken and the results came on Thursday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolhapur/48-throat-swab-samples-sent-in-connection-with-patient-who-attended-tablighi-meet/articleshow/75089119.cms||Piyush Bhusari
April 11, 2020||Varanasi||Inform about Jamaat attendees, get rewarded by Azamgarh cops||Varanasi: In a bid to weed out the attendees of Tablighi Jamaat markaz hiding in Azamgarh district, the police have announced a reward of Rs. 5000 for giving authentic information about them. The identity of the informers would be kept secret. The district administration also warned that stringent action would be taken against those who were hiding despite repeated appeal. Azamgarh district magistrate Narendra Pratap Singh said that 49 attendees of TJ, who arrived Azamgarh on March 21, have been quarantined in the district. Four of them were tested positive for COVID-19, though in second testing three persons were found negative. The samples of their family members and neighbours have been sent for testing. So far samples of 108 persons were sent for testing. The reports of 12 samples are awaited. The DM said that FIR was lodged against six attendees, who were hiding in a madrassa in Mubarakpur township, and a shelter provider under Epidemic Diseases Act. The search operation is still on to find out such people, he said adding that several teams of police and LIU have been engaged in this operation. According to the DM, about 86,000 people were screened in last two days by engaging 100 teams. Azamgarh SP Triveni Singh said that information about the attendees hiding in the district is still coming. Such people may be a potential career of the virus and threat to the society, said the SP adding that the reward has been announced just to keep the society safe from the spread of virus.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/varanasi/inform-about-jamaat-attendees-get-rewarded-by-azamgarh-cops/articleshow/75088343.cms||---
April 11, 2020||Kolhapur||Iran returned Kolhapur woman passes away due to heart attack||Kolhapur: A 60-year-old woman from city, who had gone to Iran with a private group, passed away due to a heart attack at Jodhpur-based MDM hospital on Friday. As many as 43 people from western Maharashtra had gone to Iran in February, when the Covid-19 outbreak began in the country. The Indian government arranged a special flight on March 15 and brought all the people back. “ All of them are under quarantine in Jaisalmer and Jodhpur facilities of the Indian army’s wellness centre.in Rajasthan,” said Munna Syed, the tour operator. Syed said that the woman was suffering from the underlying heart condition and this was her second heart attack. “Her swab sample has also been taken for checking COVID-19 infection. Once her test result is announced, her mortal remains will be sent to Kolhapur via special vehicle for her last rites, most probably on Saturday morning,” he said. Syed said that all the group members, most of whom are senior citizens, are away from their families for almost two months now. “The state government should transfer Maharashtra members to any quarantine facility in the Maharashtra state only. All of us are in a discouraged state as of now. We understand that the curfew is on, but we would like to be under quarantine mode in our state or town,” he said. The said tourist group has two travellers from Pune, 12 from Solapur district, six from Belgavi, five from Sangli, and around 18 from Kolhapur. They had travelled to Iran on February 21 and had planned to visit Iraq’s religious places. But Iraq had banned entry to foreigners, resulting in the group getting stranded in Iran. Meanwhile, after visiting various places in Iran and because of the ongoing situation they got stuck in Iran. They were finally brought to India by a special flight with other Indians in Iran on March 15 and shifted to the quarantine facility in Rajasthan.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolhapur/iran-returned-kolhapur-woman-passes-away-due-to-heart-attack/articleshow/75089130.cms||---
April 11, 2020||Hyderabad||Rachakonda: Burglar nabbed with 775 grams gold||HYDERABAD: A burglar who was involved in 25 different cases, was nabbed by Rachakonda police on Friday and 775 grams of gold and other valuables worth Rs 40 lakhs were seized.  Police said that A Naidu who was nabbed at identifies the locked houses and broke into them.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/burglar-nabbed-with-775-grams-gold/articleshow/75089141.cms||---
April 11, 2020||Visakhapatnam||Help build confidence of people in containment zones, officials told||VISAKHAPATNAM: Agriculture minister K Kannababu, who is also the in-charge minister for Vizag district, has urged the district administration to be compassionate towards people living in containment zones in the city and the district as well. “Containment zone doesn’t mean curfew is clamped in the area. The district administration should make people understand the gravity of the situation without using force. Nearly 7.4 lakh people from 2.6 lakh families reside in and around the 20 wards under the city’s six containment zones,” he said after a review meeting on Friday. He added that the district administration is now focused on the Covid-19 positive case from Payakaraopet as the man has no history of foreign trip or Delhi visit. “The aim is to sensitise and disinfect the areas from where positive cases are reported. Containment zones are meant to detach some areas from other areas to check the spread of the virus,” Kannababu added. Rajya Sabha member V Vijayasai Reddy, ministers Botsa Satyanarayana, M Srinivasa Rao, MPs MVV Satyanarayana and Satyavathi, and senior government officials also attended the review meeting. Kannababu said officials have been told to ensure that essential commodities reach everyone living in the containment areas. “Control room numbers would also be displayed in those areas. We have asked officials to take action against traders if they hike the prices of essential commodities. Mobile grocery shops would also be sent to containment areas. The police have been asked not to be harsh to people,” he said. The minister further said that purchase centres for maize and corn would start functioning from Saturday. “Around 778 paddy procurement centres are functional in the state. Due to the unseasonal rains, farmers have incurred heavy losses as the crop is in harvesting stage. Enumeration of crop loss has started and will be assessed very soon. As per preliminary estimations, crop loss has taken place in 13,548 hectares in four districts. Around 1,733 hectares of horticulture crops including banana, orange and other fruits, besides tomato, were also damaged,” Kannababu said. Vijayasai said free ration has been distributed to 1.47 crore people in the state. “Around 92% of distribution is over. We are planning to hold a meeting with industrialists and corporate companies to mobilise funds for medical aid and supply essential commodities to people living below poverty line,” he said, while adding that a decision on property and water tax in the city would be taken in a couple of days.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/visakhapatnam/help-build-confidence-of-people-in-containment-zones-officials-told/articleshow/75087838.cms||Siva G
April 11, 2020||Jaipur||Rajasthan industry backs extension of lockdown at CM meet||JAIPUR: In day-long video conferencing, chief minister Ashok Gehlot on Friday sought views of Rajasthan industry before he attends a virtual meeting of chief ministers with the PM on Saturday. The meeting with PM is likely to decide whether the ongoing lockdown would be extended or lifted. Most of the 56 industry associations from various sectors of the economy, 36 leading companies and ministers of the respective departments participated in the deliberations spoke in favour of extending the lockdown up to April 30. Sources said tourism minister Vishvendra Singh opined for lifting lockdown which mirrored the views of some. “The corona problem is not going to end by April 30. Complete lockdown makes no sense. The government needs to open business in a staggered way. If that is going to happen after April 30, why not prepare for it now,” said an executive member of real estate body Credai. But the chief minister said that saving lives is more important and all the measures have been taken to ensure no disruption in the supply of essential products. “We have made it easy for companies and units producing essential goods. These companies need to approval to run their factories or mills. And I am happy that they have joined the government in fighting the epidemic while taking precautions of social distancing and maintaining hygiene at the workplaces,” the chief minister said. However, leading industry bodies like CII and FICCI said they are in favour of a controlled opening up of the industrial units with adequate safety measures. “We are of the firm opinion that the economic activity should start in a phased manner with clearly laid out procedures and protocols. The backward and forward linkages covering the entire supply chain should be considered while planning the exit. Exporters and SEZ units with inventory and confirmed orders should be allowed to fulfil their export obligations,” Atul Sharma, head of FICCI-Rajasthan. While presenting views on the lockdown, the industry body representatives also drew the attention of the chief minister to the problem of paying the wages of labour during the lockdown which all set to be extended. A representative from the jewellery sector said that they have to slash salaries of their workers because they don’t have any business. Responding to their concerns, the chief minister said that those who can pay they should do that and the government is thinking over the issue. The video conferencing was conducted having multiple centres. While the chief minister along with chief secretary DB Gupta, and secretary to CM Kuldeep Ranka joined the live streaming from the CM’s residence, ACS industries and other officials were stationed at the CMO. Industry representatives participated from centres like secretariat, Yojna Bhawan, and district and divisional headquarters.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/industry-backs-extension-of-lockdown-at-cm-meet/articleshow/75089145.cms||---
April 11, 2020||Visakhapatnam||Port Vizag breathes clean again as lockdown keeps vehicles off roads||VISAKHAPATNAM: With vehicular traffic minimal due to the statewide lockdown, air pollution in the port city has come down drastically. There has been a sharp decline in activities at the Visakhapatnam Port Trust, fishing is banned at the harbour and production in many factories in the city and outskirts temporarily suspended. And there are no tourists.“The lockdown has improved the city’s environment”, said Sohan Hatangadi, a city-based environmentalist. Since the port’s operations are scaled down, there is less coal dust debris in Allipuram, Dabagardens and Maharanipeta. “Because of southeast wind, coal dust from the port areas come to these areas and it was a tough task for local residents to keep their homes and vehicles clean. But, since the lockdown, coal dust accumulation have reduced,” said Vivek Rathod, a resident of Dabagardens. “I used to suffer from itching eyes and nose blockage due to coal dust. It has reduced. The air is cleaner and respiratory ailments have come down,” said Hatangadi. “With ban on fishing for nearly three months, that too during the time of breeding, fish population of Bay of Bengal would increase,” said Arijili Dasu, a fishermen activist. Many said the city has a throwback in to the 60s and 70s during the current lockdown. “I am a regular morning walker. Now I go to the market on alternate days at the early hours. The air is clean and sky is clear. It makes me feel I am living in the Vizag of the 70s,” said K Raju, who retired as a professor in 2018.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/visakhapatnam/port-city-breathes-clean-again-as-lockdown-keeps-vehicles-off-roads/articleshow/75087850.cms||Arpit Basu
April 11, 2020||Business||Retailers set limits on purchase of essentials||Bengaluru: With shortages across products, many large retail chains across the country are putting restrictions on how much a customer can purchase at a time to prevent people from hoarding essential items. Future Retail, which runs Nilgiris and Easyday stores, said it was regulating quantities per bill to ensure essential items are consistently available to all customers. Such items include rice, flour, pulses, oil, butter and biscuits, which have been flying off the shelves and are taking longer to replenish. A customer is only allowed to buy two packets of 10kg flour or four packets of 5kg flour, five packets of Amul butter, weighing 100gm each. For any type of dal, chana, tur or moong, the ceiling is set at 5kg. “We have empowered our store managers to make changes on this based on the demand in their locality,” said a Future Retail spokesperson. Spencer’s Retail and Nature’s Basket managing director Devendra Chawla said such measures have been adopted to ensure no customer is deprived at a time when the backend supply chain is fragile. Transportation of products remains challenging and thousands of labourers have moved back to their towns and villages after the lockdown was imposed two weeks ago, affecting production at factories. “We have set limits for the purchase of certain items such as butter, rice and atta. For example, a customer can buy two packs of butter of 100gm each,” said Chawla. TOI reported in its Friday edition that there is an acute shortage of staples like rice, atta, dal and dry packaged foods like instant noodles, biscuits and snacks, in many retail and kirana stores across the country. Some retailers like More have not imposed curbs but are requesting customers to not resort to panic-buying. DMart did not comment but has requested customers on its website not to overstock items and shop only as per normal household needs. More Retail CEO and deputy managing director Mohit Kampani said they have told customers that whatever they get, will continue to be available. “It is not that a certain category is vanishing from the shelves. If we have put tea, there will be tea, though not necessarily from all the brands. The additional buy is due to the increased consumption by staying at home. Also, people are looking to lessen the number of trips to the stores,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/retailers-set-limits-on-purchase-of-essentials/articleshow/75089160.cms||Avik Das
April 11, 2020||Kolhapur||Local markets flooded with vegetables as supplies to big cities stop||Kolhapur: The disruption in the delivery of fresh farm produce to different bigger cities has resulted in the local markets being flooded with fruits and vegetables here. The rural parts of the district are the largest suppliers of vegetables to big cities in Maharashtra such as Pune and Mumbai. However, the lockdown has put limitations to transportation and harvesting of the vegetables as there is a shortage of workers in rural areas. Mohan Salpe, the secretary of agriculture produce market committee, said, “The markets in the big cities are shut. The traders no longer want to do business after some coronavirus cases have been reported among vegetable vendors. Our markets are, therefore, flooded with the vegetables. The farmers, who otherwise prefer the big city markets, are approaching us. We too are helping them sell their produce locally.” The numbers of farmers seeking permission from the Kolhapur Municipal Corporation (KMC) to sell their produce in various parts of the city is increasing. However, the KMC is finding difficult to accommodate them considering the social distancing rules. The KMC has made it mandatory for the vendors to have masks and gloves. The demand too has declined as hotels and restaurants are closed. Akshay Hukkeri, a restaurant owner who has started home delivery of food, said, “The vendors and farmers are directly approaching us. I had found that the prices were on the higher side when the lockdown began, now they have fallen a little.” Many in the city believe the lockdown may be extended and they are stocking items such as onions and potatoes. “We have sufficient grains stocked for the next month. Every day, new vendors are added in my locality. We buy vegetables from them regularly. The pulses can be used in an emergency,” said Prashant Salunkhe, a resident of the Jadhavwadi area.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolhapur/local-markets-flooded-with-vegetables-as-supplies-to-big-cities-stop/articleshow/75089140.cms||---
April 11, 2020||Pune||7 booked for not wearing masks in Chikhali||Pune: The Pimpri Chinchwad police on Thursday booked seven men for venturing out without covering their faces with masks in the cluster-containment zone of Chikhali. The police said all seven men, associated with the supply of essential commodities, were on the roads in the Kudlewadi area. “Though they had valid reasons for venturing out, we acted against them for the violation the mandatory order of wearing masks,” senior inspector Satish Mane of the Chikhali police told TOI. The authorities on Wednesday had made it compulsory to wear face masks in Pune when in public areas. On Friday, joint commissioner of police Ravindra Shisve and assistant commissioner of police Ashok Morale distributed masks among families of personnel staying at the Swargate and Somwar Peth police colonies. The officers also sensitized the residents about coronavirus and the importance of social distancing. Shisve distributed onions and potatoes among the residents.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/7-booked-for-not-wearing-masks-in-chikhali/articleshow/75089144.cms||---
April 11, 2020||Jaipur||Random tests to continue in Jaipur||JAIPUR: Following the completion of over 2,000 random Covid-19 tests, the state government is planning to conduct random tests of identified persons from the pandemic-hit Ramganj area in Jaipur. The local administration has carried out 2,226 random tests in the last three days, including 841 on Friday. The results of random tests done on Day 2 and 3 are likely to come by Saturday evening. The health workers carried out 476 random tests on Day 1 and the 41 who tested positive were asymptomatic, which has left the authorities worried. “We will carry out the analysis of the tests in terms of area, age, gender, travel history, contact history with the already positive cases, to take a final call on our next line of action for the Walled City,” said Ajitabh Sharma, in-charge of prevention of coronavirus in Jaipur. He also hinted that the next round of random tests will be done on the populace much younger. “It has been established that persons with no symptoms have tested positive, which has made it clear that random tests and strict lockdown are the two options for us to contain the pandemic,” said a government official. The Walled City area is under curfew ever since the pandemic outbreak in the area. So far, over 100 positive cases have been traced to the single person who returned from Oman. The officials posted in the Walled City have told authorities that curfew is being violated in the interiors of the Walled City. “Despite patrolling by the police and appeals from community leaders, it is very disheartening to see people run for cover when they see the police van coming,” said an area magistrate posted in the Walled City. Suggestion of a ruthless curfew with police deployed in the interiors has been given by the officials. “It is an option which cannot be ruled out, if residents continue to break curfew rules,” said an official.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/random-tests-to-continue-in-city/articleshow/75089139.cms||---
April 11, 2020||Noida||Quarantined, they fear facility to make them sick||NOIDA: The Dr Ambedkar SC/ST Hostel at Gautam Budh Nagar at Gautam Budh University in Greater Noida was turned into a quarantine facility last month. The idea was to take some pressure off of hospitals, which would deal with confirmed Covid-19 cases. Quarantine facilities, meanwhile, would house those who were suspected patients and waiting for test results. The wait, as it turns out, has been more worrying for those at the facility than the test itself. “I have been here for three days. I think I’ll get sick here, even if I was not before,” said an inmate. “Sanitiser bottles are always empty. Bathrooms are not clean, except early in the morning or late at night. Many, including I, have stopped taking baths fearing infection. We have to wait in long queues for that and people don’t maintain social distancing. Some of us ask cops to maintain order, but nobody listens, nobody cares.” Basic hygiene and sanitation, those at the hostel said, was missing. “We line up for meals, for bathroom with people who are evidently symptomatic. No one is around to enforce social distancing,” said another inmate. “In a residential society, even taking a walk in the park is not allowed. Here, people move in large groups, stroll in the park, walk in the common areas. No one intervenes. Because the officials are all outside the gates.” Others complained nothing was ever cleaned. “Sheets are not washed, the garbage is piling up in an open spot. There is no one to clean up,” said an inmate. The stay is longer than it has to be. Test reports are taking up to 10 days to come back, before which no one can be allowed to leave. “Though I feel fine, I have to stand in queue with several others who are coughing and sneezing. When I asked to be shifted to a paid quarantine facility, the request was denied since my report has not come yet. It has been five days,” she said. Earlier, she had posted about the conditions on social media. District magistrate Suhas LY said “some inmates” are being moved out and those responsible acted against. “We have already moved some inmates to other quarantine facilities. On lapses in arrangements, the doctor in charge has been given an adverse entry by the chief medical officer.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/noida/quarantined-they-fear-facility-to-make-them-sick/articleshow/75089132.cms||---
April 11, 2020||Pune||250 army medical corps veterans join Covid-19 fight||Pune: At least 250 ex-servicemen from the Army Medical Corps (AMC) have voluntarily joined the state health department’s services in the fight against Covid-19. Besides, another 3,500 ex-servicemen have enrolled themselves for performing various roles to aid the government’s effort, said Lt Col RR Jadhav, director (Militarisation) of the Department of Sainik Welfare Maharashtra. “The AMC personnel have a fair expertise in medical subjects and can make a positive difference at a time when many Primary Health Centres in the rural areas are facing manpower crunch,” Jadhav told TOI. He said the enrolled ex-servicemen would join the health services as and when instructions required.Havildar Sanjay Dhane, who retired after 27 years of service as a nursing assistant, recently joined the Satara civil hospital. “I have opted for nursing assistant’s role and I am working at Covid-19 positive ward and in isolation facilities for the last few weeks,” Dhane told TOI.Pune Zilla Parishad’s chief executive officer Ayush Prasad told TOI, “We will utilise the AMC veterans when required.” A senior officer from the district collector’s office, said, “The ex-servicemen manpower will be utilised in the rural areas whenever there is a crunch at quarantine facilities.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/250-army-medical-corps-veterans-join-covid-19-fight/articleshow/75089156.cms||---
April 11, 2020||Kolhapur||First +ve patient want to stay in quarantine till lockdown ends||Kolhapur: The first Covid-19 case in the city is likely to be discharged on Saturday, however, the man is preferring to stay in institutional quarantine till the lockdown ends. The Pune-based man came to Kolhapur on March 20 to meet his sister residing in Mangalwar Peth area. He transmitted the infection to his sister, who is also undergoing treatment in the same facility. The first sample test of the man has tested negative, as the doctors wait for the second test to confirm that he is coronavirus free. “I had come to meet my sister here. Unfortunately, she also got infected. I am based in Pune but I do not want to go to my sister’s home as it may create unnecessary panic among the locals. Also, there is a lockdown in the process. No one knows the nature of the disease currently and I don’t want to risk the health of other people. I do not want to go back home till the lockdown ends,” he told TOI. The doctors have advised him the same thing. “There is no chance of growing the infection anymore, the treatment may have made his body less immune and he may get other infections. He should get the strength to travel to long-distance before he is discharged,” said a doctor on condition of anonymity. Meenakshi Gajbhiye, Covid-19 control management team said that as per the guidelines we have to put the infected person under strict home quarantine so that he or she may not get reinfected again. “We are waiting for the second swab report of the patient. His sister is going to complete the quarantine period. Her first swab sample has been sent for testing too,” said Gajbhiye. Meanwhile, all the 19 swab samples of the Kasba Bawda and Shahuwadi tehsil suspects have reported negative, which has relieved the health staff. These are the people, who had come in contact with the positive cases from the said areas.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolhapur/first-ve-patient-want-to-stay-in-quarantine-till-lockdown-ends/articleshow/75089147.cms||---
April 11, 2020||Hyderabad||Minor rescued in Hyderabad, shifted to shelter home||HYDERABAD: A minor girl was rescued from a house in Bowenpally on Friday. She was moved to a shelter home. Officials were alerted by Balala Hakkula Sangham.“Our foremost priority was to take the girl to safe place. We will counsel her,” said District welfare officer Padmavathi.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/minor-rescued-shifted-to-shelter-home/articleshow/75089174.cms||---
April 11, 2020||Kolhapur||City witnesses light rain, likely to occur today and tomorrow: IMD||Kolhapur: The city witnessed light rain on Friday evening. According to the India Meteorological Department forecast, rain is likely to occur on Saturday and Sunday as well. The district administration's disaster management department has appealed to people to prepare for thunderstorms with lightning. The rural parts of the district and some parts of the region also experienced the untimely rain. The rain occurred in the southern areas of the city such as the old city areas and fringe areas. According to district authorities, the rains may halt the harvesting in rural areas. The authorities have appealed to the citizens to stay indoors for the next two days. The temperature of the city was rising for the last two days. The maximum temperature recorded on Friday was around 38 degrees Celsius. After the rain, the temperature came down to 28 degrees Celsius. A senior district disaster management official requesting anonymity said, “We have the inputs from the meteorology department that rain will occur on Saturday and Sunday. However, the next week is most likely to be dry. The rain in the evening may disrupt the markets, harvesting and transport.” The health department has issued an advisory stating that the sudden fluctuations in temperature may lead to illness and therefore the citizens must not panic, and not consider it Covid-19 symptoms. They are advised to consult a doctor immediately. A senior citizen from Rajarampuri said that this time of the year when the yatra (fair) of Jotiba temple at the hill top of Wadi Ratnagiri concludes, rain occurs. The IMD has predicted the possibility of thunderstorms with lightning at isolated places in southern districts such as Kolhapur, Sangli, Satara and Solapur. In Solapur district the rain showers are likely on Monday as per IMD's prediction.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolhapur/city-witnesses-light-rain-likely-to-occur-today-and-tomorrow-imd/articleshow/75089164.cms||---
April 11, 2020||Thiruvananthapuram||Illicit liquor brewers busted||Thiruvananthapuram: The excise officials busted two illicit liquor brewing centres within a span of 24 hours. The first catch, in which a middle-aged couple was arrested, was made at Aryanad, on the outskirts of the city, on Thursday night. Binukumar and wife Sathya were operating the illicit liquor brewing unit in their residence. Officials also seized five litres of hooch and 55 litres of wash from the house. According to excise officials, the couple had set up liquor brewing apparatus, including LP gas stove, inside the bathroom located in the backyard of their house. They had been operating this facility since the lockdown was announced and had been serving to their ‘loyal customers only. Their neighbours grew suspicious of the couple’s activities and alerted the excise officials. Both the husband and wife were engaged in brewing when the law enforcers raided their residence. Their arrests were recorded on Friday following which they were remanded in judicial custody. The second catch was made at Mudakkal near Chrayinkeezh on Friday evening. Excise officials, who were patrolling near vacant lands at Mangattumoola near Mudakkal found a brewing unit on the bank of a river. They also found 100 litres of wash that was stored in two barrels. The officials suspect that people who were operating the unit fled sensing the presence of law enforcers. Both catches were made by district excise special squad led by circle inspector T Anikumar and excise inspector T R Mukesh Kumar.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/thiruvananthapuram/illicit-liquor-brewers-busted/articleshow/75087891.cms||---
April 11, 2020||Rajkot||Six morning walkers booked||Rajkot: Six persons out on a morning walk were arrested for allegedly breaking the lockdown order in Malaviyanagar locality of Rajkot on Friday. The accused were identified as Savan Jagani (29), Jenti Vadodaria (45), Vijay Dudhagara (38), Harish Parsana (44), Udai Vithalani (43) and Bhautik Dholaria (28).||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/six-morning-walkers-booked/articleshow/75088613.cms||---
April 11, 2020||Jaipur||Congress showcases steps by Rajasthan to fight coronavirus||JAIPUR: The Congress central leadership has showcased the effort made by Rajasthan government in controlling the pandemic and the welfare measures initiated by the government in the state. The Congress in its official Twitter handle under the heading “Congress Shows the Way: Rajasthan” highlighted the measures taken by the government in a series of tweets appreciating the initiatives taken by the state government after state party president and deputy chief minister Sachin pilot had a video conference with party interim president Sonia Gandhi on Friday. “Our govt in Rajasthan is constantly working to ramp up screening & testing and to upgrade healthcare facilities to control the spread of Covid-19,” said a tweet on Congress @INCIndia, official twitter handle of the party. It said the state government had earmarked one lakh beds for patients, 50 million (5 crore) people screened, 19,000 tests conducted and 3,000 ventilator-bed at SMS Hospital. The party also highlighted social security measures taken by the Ashok Gehlot government especially for the weaker sections in another tweet. “The coronavirus has resulted in a necessary lockdown which has impacted the lives of weaker sections of society. We have ensured that no one faces shortages of money or food during this time.” Enumerating the measures it said, “The state government announced relief package worth Rs 2,500 crore, sustenance grants of Rs 2500 to 31 lakh people and two months’ advance pension to 78 lakh pensioners.” “Our healthcare workers and medical professionals risk their lives every day and we have made it our priority to ensure their safety. For health workers, the government had constituted a Rs 25-crore welfare fund,” it said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/cong-showcases-steps-by-raj-to-fight-coronavirus/articleshow/75089171.cms||Joychen Joseph
April 11, 2020||Coimbatore||Temporary market on school ground flooded with rainwater||COIMBATORE: Adding to their discomfort of maintaining social distancing and walking to a long distance, residents of Saibaba Colony in the city waded through pool of rainwater at the temporary market set up at the ground of Ramalinga Chettiar Higher Secondary School on Friday. An hour-long rainfall on Thursday has flooded the ground, forcing the vegetable vendors to set up their stalls amidst the puddle. “We have purchased vegetables from wholesalers by shelling out thousands of rupees. We don’t have any other option but to sell the vegetables from this sludge-filled ground,” GA Wahab, district secretary of federation of Tamil Nadu trades, said. About 150 retailers from Anna market are selling vegetables at the school ground. Loadmen found it difficult to unload sacks each containing 50-60kg of produce from vehicles and take it to stalls in the ground because of the sludge. “The ground is big. We need temporary roof to save our goods and proper lighting facilities,” he said, adding that the corporation has provided five to six lights, which is insufficient. Raja Mohammed, a customer, said that the public were visiting the market as they don’t have any other option. Officials should take steps to change the location of the market, he added. When contacted, a corporation official said that they don’t have any other suitable place which could be turned into a temporary market in the locality. Meanwhile, wholesalers who were selling tomatoes and onions from MGR Market were moved to the new bus stand on Mettupalayam Road on Friday as they were not following social distancing norms. As many as 105 sacks of onions and 21 trays of tomatoes were seized from the sellers on Thursday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/temporary-market-on-school-ground-flooded-with-rainwater/articleshow/75089176.cms||---
April 11, 2020||Varanasi||BHU to help students tackle stress and panic||VARANASI: The Banaras Hindu University has constituted a nine-member committee to help the students by addressing their all problems including their mental health and psychological concerns during the nation-wide lockdown. The committee will be dedicated to keep the student community away from stress or panic in the prevailing situation. According to BHU spokesperson Rajesh Singh, vice-chancellor Prof Rakesh Bhatnagar constituted the helpline committee of senior faculty members on Thursday. The committee comprises of Prof S Gupta of psychiatry department Institute of Medical Sciences, Prof KK Singh of Student’s Welfare Centre, Prof Madhu Tapadia of zoology department Institute of Science, chief proctor Prof OP Rai, Prof HS Asthana and Prof Tara Singh of the department of psychology, computer centre coordinator Prof Vivek Singh, Dr Seema Tiwari of geography section of Mahila Mahavidyalaya and Dr HK Malaviya of the department of political science. As per the guidelines of the University Grant Commission (UGC), the committee would function with immediate effect and regularly monitor the students, said Singh. In its advisory, the UGC had asked the universities and colleges to take all possible preventive and precautionary measures to ensure safety and security of students, whether on campus, in hostels or outside during the prevailing situation. The UGC advised the universities and colleges to take certain measures including launching helplines for mental health, psychological concerns and well-being of students and their regular monitoring through interactions, and appeals/letters to keep them calm and stress free. The universities and colleges have also been asked to form Covid-19 help groups of students, headed by hostel wardens/ senior faculty who can identify friends/classmates in need of help and provide immediate help. Besides, it was also advised to share video links of ministry of health and family welfare with students and faculty members on university/college website, via e-mails and through social media.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/varanasi/bhu-to-help-students-tackle-stress-panic/articleshow/75088360.cms||---
April 11, 2020||Rajkot||Rajkot: Toddler crushed under tractor, father among three booked||RAJKOT: Three persons were booked on Thursday night for the accidental death of a 10-month-old girl who was crushed to death under wheels of a tractor driving in reverse in Chokhada village of Rajkot taluka on Thursday. Among those booked include Baka Lakhtaria (35), father of the toddler Bhavna who was crushed to death. Other booked are kiln owner Raju Satapara and tractor driver Dharamshi Muliya. Bhavna was killed after she came under the wheel of the trolly of a tractor that was coming in reverse at a kiln owned by Raju Satapara. “After the accident, Baka allegedly buried Bhavna without informing the police. When Bhavna’s mother Maya Lakhtaria (30) came to know about the incident, she lodged a complaint against Baka, Satapara and tractor driver Dharamshi Muliya,” said M C Vala, inspector with Kuwadawa Road police station.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/toddler-crushed-under-tractor-father-among-three-booked/articleshow/75088619.cms||---
April 11, 2020||Jaipur||Rajasthan government allows procurement of Rabi crops through village co-op societies||On the demand of political leaders, the state government has allowed procurement of Rabi crops through 460 village credit cooperative societies as well. Farmers will now be able to sell their agricultural produce at the nearest village cooperative society and can get competitive prices through open auction, said Nareshpal Gangwar, principal secretary agriculture and co-operative. The state government earlier announced that Rabi crops will be procured from April 15 at minimum support price through agriculture markets. In another major decision, government has also given permission to the agricultural processing units to purchase farm produce directly from the farmers. Gangwar said the state government has now exempted the agricultural processing units from applying to the Agricultural Produce Market Committees for a license for direct purchase of farm produce from farmers. He informed that the existing provision for direct purchase involves obtaining a prior license from the respective agricultural produce market committee by processing units for direct purchase.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/govt-allows-procurement-of-rabi-crops-through-village-co-op-societies/articleshow/75089166.cms||---
April 11, 2020||Thiruvananthapuram||35% drop in waste generated in Kochi||Kochi: Waste generated in Kochi and its neighbouring areas has come down drastically following the lockdown with hotels, auditoriums, business establishments and other institutions remaining closed for around two weeks. Brahmapuram waste-management plant, which houses all kinds of garbage generated in Kochi, recorded a dip of around 35% in the biowaste reaching the plant per day following the lockdown. Around 230 tonnes of biowaste used to be transported to the plant every day from city corporation, five municipalities and three panchayats when all establishments were in full swing before the lockdown. After the lockdown, the plant witnessed a drop of 80 tonnes of biowaste. Plastic waste also witnessed a drop of around 35% from 100-110 tonnes being transported daily from corporation areas. “Vehicles used to transport biowaste in around 60 trips per day. After the lockdown, it has come down to 32-40 trips per day. For plastic waste too, the number of trips reduced to 45-50 daily as against 60 earlier. Corporation workers segregate waste at 21 circles of the local body,” said a health official. After the lockdown, segregation of waste was stopped. “The workers at the plant stopped segregating cleaned plastic waste following the outbreak of Covid-19. The plastic being transported is currently dumped on the heap of garbage,” said a health official. The fire force has not carried out any disinfection drive in the plant. Apart from the city corporation, Thrikkakara, Tripunithura, Aluva, Angamaly and Kalamassery municipalities, and Kumbalangi, Cheranelloor and Puthencruz panchayats transport biowaste to the plant. Outside corporation limits, Thrikkakara municipality contributes major chunk of waste being transported to the plant per day. “We used to transport around 27 tonnes of biowaste to the plant per day, but now it is only 19-20 tonnes per day,” said a health official in Thrikkakara municipality. Thrikkakara municipality is not collecting waste from houses where people are on quarantine. “We have a list of people in quarantine in the municipality. We give that list to rapid-response team constituted at ward level. They coordinate with workers to inform them about houses from which they should not collect waste until the quarantine period is over,” said a health official in Thrikkakara municipality. Kalamassery municipality witnessed a drop in waste generation. “We used to transport around 20 tonnes of biowaste to Brahmapuram plant per day; now it dropped to 14-15 tonnes per day,” said Bindu Manoharan, health standing committee chairperson in Kalamassery.  Meanwhile, officials are worried that some sanitation workers are reluctant to use mask and other precautionary measures against Covid-19.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/thiruvananthapuram/35-drop-in-waste-generated-in-kochi/articleshow/75087921.cms||T C Sreemol
April 11, 2020||Kolhapur||Restrictions eased in Kasba Bawda and Line Bazaar areas||Kolhapur: After three days of complete lockdown, residents of the Kasba Bawda and Line Bazaar areas stepped out on Friday morning to buy groceries and other essentials. On Monday, another Covid-19 positive case was reported from Kasba Bawda’s Maratha colony, taking the count to three. Since then, the colony has been sealed as a precautionary measure. The residents of the Kasba Bawda area rushed to the shops in the morning to buy essentials including groceries and medicines. People requested grocery store owners to keep their shops open for atleast a few hours so that they can make purchases. By 12 pm, the shops were closed. The residents of these areas received milk packets after many days after the administration asked the vendors to supply milk packets. In addition, vegetable vendors had put up stalls in various lanes as the market near the fire station remained closed. On Friday, three people from the locality were quarantined. Authorities said that they are carrying out a survey to identify Covid-19 suspects in the locality. Roads approaching the colony have been shut and barricades have been put up in all areas. In some lanes and localities, the residents have put up barricades to prevent people from coming in or going out in an attempt to contain the spread of infection. However, following some complaints, the obstructions were removed by police to make way for people stepping out of their homes for emergency purposes. The city traffic police have deployed towing vans to seize two-wheelers of those who are stepping out of their homes unnecessarily. Civic chief Mallinath Kalshetti said that people should not panic and rush to vegetable shops. They must refarin from crowding at suvh places. “We have found that the people roam around unnecessarily and rush to markets. I have asked our staff to make announcement in every ward of the city to request people to allow one person once a day to move out to buy essentials,” said Kalshetti.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolhapur/restrictions-eased-in-kasba-bawda-and-line-bazaar-areas/articleshow/75089170.cms||---
April 11, 2020||Pune||Anxiety, anger, depression grip many in the time of coronavirus||555, can be trimmed according to requirements Pune: The fear of getting infected with the novel coronavirus COVID-19 led a 75-year-old Law College Road resident to commit suicide in his house on Thursday. The suicide note stating ‘Corona Fear’ found by the police at his residence made it evident that the rapidly spreading virus was the cause of the suicide. Psychiatrists and psychologists said while the suicide was an extreme case, thousands from the city were suffering from anxiety issues, irritability, anger and even depression in the wake of the coronavirus outbreak and the ensuing lockdown . Doctors said many people were so stressed and anxious that they were scared to even step out into the balconies of their houses. City-based psychotherapist and counsellor Vidyadhar Bapat said he has been providing telephonic counseling to several people suffering from coronavirus-related anxiety. “There is an uncertainty about when all this will end and a heavy fear of infection. The constant fear is causing biological changes in people’s brain and leading to secretion of stress hormones. This, in turn, is causing anxiety, irritability, friction with family members, loneliness, unnecessary suspicions, anger and sleeplessness. I have seen cases of friction arising between newly-married couples,” he said. Bapat said the continuous stress was also affecting people’s immunity and increasing physical ailments such as acidity, blood pressure and even chances of catching infection. “These issues have aggravated in people already suffering from anxiety disorders or depression. The otherwise mentally healthy people have also started facing anxiety issues,” he added. K K Aggarwal, president of the Confederation of Medical Associations of Asia and Oceania (CMAAO) and national past president of Indian Medical Association (IMA), while assessing the situation in early March, had mentioned a term — Coranxiety. “It is anxiety about falling ill and dying, fear of getting infected while visiting doctors, fear of losing livelihood, fear of not being able to work during isolation and fear of being dismissed from work if infected. It is the fear of being social excluded, of being put into isolation or being separated from loved ones and caregivers due to quarantine. Coranxiety includes refusal to take care of unaccompanied or separated minors or people with disabilities or elderly because of their high-risk nature. It further includes feeling of helplessness, boredom, depression due to being isolated, stigmatization of being positive and possible anger,” he said. Amruta Kashikar, a city-based clinical psychologist running a mental health helpline with five of her colleagues to help people cope with anxiety related to coronavirus, said, “For the first few days after the lockdown was imposed, we got frequent calls from people about increased anxiety, panic attacks and other issues. People are scared about getting infected or worried about family members living in other cities or about the need for a lockdown and spread of the virus. One person called me saying that he drove much faster as compared to his usual driving speed when out to purchase groceries as he thought the environment is polluted with coronavirus.” Senior psychiatrist Vidyadhar Watve said, “Anxiety is a common psychiatric disorder and the continuous hammering of information about coronavirus is leading to increased anxiousness among people. I have seen patients who have never suffered from any issues but are complaining of sleeplessness, anxiety and depression. The situation is unusual and so the people suffering from anxiety has increased.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/anxiety-anger-depression-grip-many-in-the-time-of-coronavirus/articleshow/75089169.cms||Rujuta Parekh
April 11, 2020||Udaipur||Congress showcases steps by Rajasthan to fight coronavirus||JAIPUR: The Congress central leadership has showcased the effort made by Rajasthan government in controlling the pandemic and the welfare measures initiated by the government in the state. The Congress in its official Twitter handle under the heading “Congress Shows the Way: Rajasthan” highlighted the measures taken by the government in a series of tweets appreciating the initiatives taken by the state government after state party president and deputy chief minister Sachin pilot had a video conference with party interim president Sonia Gandhi on Friday. “Our govt in Rajasthan is constantly working to ramp up screening & testing and to upgrade healthcare facilities to control the spread of Covid-19,” said a tweet on Congress @INCIndia, official twitter handle of the party. It said the state government had earmarked one lakh beds for patients, 50 million (5 crore) people screened, 19,000 tests conducted and 3,000 ventilator-bed at SMS Hospital. The party also highlighted social security measures taken by the Ashok Gehlot government especially for the weaker sections in another tweet. “The coronavirus has resulted in a necessary lockdown which has impacted the lives of weaker sections of society. We have ensured that no one faces shortages of money or food during this time.” Enumerating the measures it said, “The state government announced relief package worth Rs 2,500 crore, sustenance grants of Rs 2500 to 31 lakh people and two months’ advance pension to 78 lakh pensioners.” “Our healthcare workers and medical professionals risk their lives every day and we have made it our priority to ensure their safety. For health workers, the government had constituted a Rs 25-crore welfare fund,” it said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/udaipur/cong-showcases-steps-by-raj-to-fight-coronavirus/articleshow/75094019.cms||Joychen Joseph
April 11, 2020||Jaipur||Rs 50 lakh relief for corona warriors’ kin in case of death||JAIPUR: Chief minister Ashok Gehlot on Friday announced a financial assistance of Rs 50 lakh to the family of any government employee for death due to coronavirus during its anti-Covid-19 operation in the state. The central government had announced a medical insurance cover of Rs 50 lakh to the corona warriors, including medical staff, but the state government has increased its cover to other employees also who are part of the anti-Covid-19 operation. The state government said the employees working on contract basis and honorariums would also be covered under the compensation of Rs 50 lakh announced by the state government for its employees. It includes patwaris, gram sevaks, constables, contract employees including safai karmacharis, health workers and those who are employed on honorariums like Home Guard, civil defence, Asha and anganwadi workers.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/rs-50-lakh-relief-for-corona-warriors-kin-in-case-of-death/articleshow/75089181.cms||---
April 11, 2020||Goa||Low-income APL card holders left in the lurch||QUEPEM: Hundreds of ration card holders and their families in the low-income bracket but registered as above poverty line (APL) by the department of civil supplies are irked over the government’s move of distributing free ration quota for three months only to Antyodaya Anna Yojana (AAY) and Priority Household (PHH) card holders. Filomen Pinto, a senior citizen and APL card holder from Quepem, lamented the government’s decision as APL card holders have been left out of the Pradhan mantri garib kalian anna yojana scheme. “They should have at least allotted us half of the free quota,” said Pinto. The government has sanctioned 5kg of rice per person for priority household card holders and the same quantity for AAY card holders, free of cost from April to June. A total of 9,331 ration card holders are registered in APL, 9,348 in PHH and 810 card holders belong to AAY category. Quepem civil supplies inspector Gorakh Rajadhyax told TOI that people who are not registered under the below poverty line category are free to approach his office for necessary changes. “People must buy this month’s quota before April 21. Banners have been displayed at every fair price shop for their awareness,” said Rajadhyax. Officials said they would visit every fair price shop once a day to ensure that the system is working free and fair. “We will see that people benefit from this free quota. Our sub inspectors will keep a check and the inspection report will be sent to the supplies director,” said one official.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/low-income-apl-card-holders-left-in-the-lurch/articleshow/75089232.cms||---
April 11, 2020||Hyderabad||Do not displace villagers: HC to Telangana||HYDERABAD: Wondering why the revenue and irrigation authorities are taking up activities at the ground level that disrupt social distancing, the Telangana high court has directed the government to not inundate the areas of nearly a hundred families in Mulugu mandal that fall under the purview of Kondapochamma Sagar reservoir and Anantagiri reservoir in Rajanna Sircilla district. A bench of Chief Justice Raghavendra Singh Chauhan and Justice T Amarnath Goud was hearing pleas from the residents of three villages charging the authorities with disconnecting power, road network and inundating their areas by releasing water from the newly-constructed reservoirs. The petitioners’ grievance was that the government wants them to go away without insisting on what the law had promised them. They contended that the government had conceded before the court in the past in respect of rehabilitation and quantum of compensation. Advocate general BS Prasad, however, attributed political motives to the petitioners and said that more than 1,000 families have already moved out into accommodations provided by the state government and they had also accepted the compensation paid through the court. “A few families with political motives are refusing to take the money and trying to disrupt the public good these reservoirs would render if allowed to operate on time. These disruptions will harm scores of farmers because they will not be able to get water to their fields. This will also disrupt drinking water supply to Hyderabad,” he said. The bench said it would soon ensure that the problem is amicably resolved and directed the state government to not disturb the villagers till it hears the case next week.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/do-not-displace-villagers-hc-to-t/articleshow/75089204.cms||---
April 11, 2020||Kolkata||West Bengal: Skeletal taxi service from Saturday, vehicles can be parked near key traffic guards||KOLKATA: A skeletal metered taxi service will be available from Saturday after chief minister Mamata Banerjee decided to allow a little more ease of movement for people requiring emergency travel. Initially, it was decided that 300 cabs will give service to hospital-bound patients, people attending to emergency services, even for movement of reasonable quantity of goods for the essential sectors. Apart from some designated lockdown taxi stands at SSKM Hospital, Bhowanipore, Hazra, Kalighat, Tollygunge, Taratala, Behala 14 No Bus stand, Behala Chowrasta, Thakurpukur, Parnashree, Mominpore, Kidderpore, Esplanade, Sovabazar, Shyambazar, Belgachhia, Dum Dum, taxis will be allowed to be parked near 25 traffic guards. “Since we receive a lot of emergency calls, we can divert them to the nearest traffic guards for emergency service,” said a senior traffic officer. Apart from Bengal Taxi Association, Progressive Taxi Union nd Calcutta Taxi Association, CITU-run taxi workers union will also provide the service. “For the sake of lockdown, we have kept app cabs out of the purview of this skeletal service. Since app cabs are booked online, anybody and everybody can book the service. However, after assessing the demand-supply gap, we may take further decision,” said a transport department official. The app cabs, however, are providing last mile connectivity for delivery of goods. A senior Public Vehicles Department (PVD) officer said that taxi operators were asked to keep five taxis each at important junctions across the city to help people reach their destination during an emergency. We are gearing up for the service, Bengal Taxi Association president Bimal Guha said. “We are running a bare minimum number of taxis for people engaged in essential services. We may follow the night-service model where hospitals, IT and ITES hubs will be connected,” he added. The Bengal Taxi Association (BTA), the city’s largest association of taxi operators in Kolkata, will run a fleet of 1,000 vehicles on a demand basis. “People in emergency can call us at 033-24753505, 033-24742249, 9339053605 or 9831364824. We ferried people to hospitals. During the lockdown, we provided doorstep services to those in need,” Sanjeeb Roy of BTA said. The PVD official asked taxi operators to place five vehicles each at Gariahat, Sealdah, Garia, Beliaghata connector and Esplanade, he said. After a meeting with trade and industry representatives, the CM had said on Thursday that the state was contemplating the idea of minimal transportation like giving a go-ahead to taxis to hit the streets again, but carrying not more than four persons, including the driver.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/skeletal-taxi-service-from-today-vehicles-can-be-parked-near-key-traffic-guards/articleshow/75088633.cms||Krishnendu Bandyopadhyay
April 11, 2020||Business||Kirana supplying B2B companies see orders rise 60%||BENGALURU: India’s business-to-business (B2B) commerce startups like Udaan, Jumbotail, WayCool and Ninjacart — which supply groceries and vegetables to tens of thousands of kiranas — are seeing a 40 to 60% spike in demand. The development comes as India’s 12 million neighbourhood kiranas have proved to be more trustworthy for essentials since online grocery players and even supermarkets have struggled to meet increasing demand due to issues ranging from manpower shortage to supply chain bottlenecks. But these companies said that only 30-50% of the kiranas in their network are operating right now, which is leading to a larger spike in the business of those which remain open. “While the frequency of orders that we get from kiranas has remained the same, the ticket size of the orders is 2-3x times normal now,” said Ashish Jhina, founder of Jumbotail, which supplies groceries to 24,000 kirana stores across Bengaluru. He added that many kiranas said their traditional distributors are not showing up. “These stores are located next to the house and, given that they are a small family run business, their ability to deal with shocks is much better.” WayCool Foods, which supplies 10,000 kiranas across South India, has seen a 40-60% increase in staples and a 20-30% increase in demand for fresh vegetables. Kiranas, which used to order once in two weeks, are now asking for replenishments every week given the increase in business. “Demand from these stores is usually determined by cash flows that they have. Some stores which are open can purchase more frequently,” said Karthik Jayaraman, co-founder of WayCool. Some of these startups are also coming up with innovative solutions. Udaan has piloted an application where gated communities can bulk-order a pre-decided package of essentials, while Jumbotail has been getting requests to open its branded J24 stores inside residential complexes. But even as demand spikes, according to Udaan’s Sujeet Kumar, the ability to fulfil the increasing load remains tough as labour issues remain. Udaan is still operating at only 50-60% of its capacity. Udaan, valued at $2.8 billion and which supplies products to 3 million small merchants, said that another issue is changing the definition of essentials. These companies, which also work directly with farmers, s also see other problems. Ninjacart CEO Thirukumaran Nagarajan added farmers are delaying sowing new crops as they wait for a clearer picture to emerge about restrictions on movement after April 14. “Supply chain issues are almost resolved. But 40-50% of kirana stores are not operating. On consumption side also, there is an overall dip as many have moved out of the cities,” said Nagarajan. The startup, backed by Flipkart and Tiger Global, is operating at 70-90% of its average daily capacity, delivering to 10,000-12,000 clients or small shops.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/kirana-supplying-b2b-cos-see-orders-rise-60/articleshow/75089203.cms||Digbijay Mishra
April 11, 2020||Pune||PMC fixes two time slots for veggie markets||Pune: Residents would now be able to purchase vegetables only in two slots — 11am to 2pm and 3pm to 5pm — at the mandis and farmers’ markets. An order issued by Pune municipal commissioner, Shekhar Gaikwad, stated that the timing of mandis had been fixed to restrict unnecessary crowding of people on roads or at marketplaces. The civic administration asked the vegetable mandis (markets) to strictly follow the social distancing norms during the working hours. Besides, it banned the functioning of roadside illegal vegetable vendors. The order stated that despite the lockdown measures, people were coming out to purchase vegetables and fruits at will. It was observed that no social distancing norms were being followed by the vendors, the order stated. According to instructions, the Pune Municipal Corporation’s zonal officers would keep a watch on the timings and the functioning of the mandis and farmers’ markets as well as initiate action against illegal hawkers. At the mandis, at least 10 feet distance is expected to be maintained between every vendor. Five residents would be allowed to enter them at a time. Gaikwad told the zonal officers and police to ensure strict implementation of the social distancing norms and initiate action against the roadside vendors in their respective jurisdiction.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/pmc-fixes-two-time-slots-for-veggie-markets/articleshow/75089177.cms||---
April 11, 2020||Jaipur||Constable tests positive in Jaipur, 14 cops sent to quarantine||JAIPUR: A constable posted at Manak Chowk police station in Walled City here tested positive for Covid-19 on Friday. He was suffering from fever and had symptoms similar to the virus that led him to give his samples. He was engaged with a medical team conducting door-to-door survey in Ramganj area where at least 100 people have been infected. This is probably the first case in the state in which a policeman on duty has been infected. Police said the constable was staying at the barracks and complained of fever a couple of days ago. “Since he had other symptoms, he gave his samples for the testing,” said a senior officer of Jaipur police commissionerate. Soon after, 14 other policemen posted at Manak Chowk police station who were in close contact with the affected cop were sent to quarantine. “Manak Chowk police station and its barracks have also been disinfected. Our men have been asked to be extra careful while performing their duties in the affected areas,” said police commissioner Anand Srivastav, who was camping at Ramganj police station area to ensure smooth screening of residents of the area. Panic prevailed among policemen on duty in the curfew-hit area after the news of their fellow policeman getting infected broke. In order to boost the morale of policemen, the senior police officers of Jaipur police commissionerate on duty, including the commissioner, additional commissioner of police (law and order) Ajay Pal Lamba and other officers held one-to-one talks with the policemen on duty at the seven curfew-affected areas in Walled City. “I would like to repeat my appeal to Jaipurites to stay at home,” said Lamba. Manak Chowk SHO Jitendra Singh Rathore said policemen on duty with medical staff engaged in screening, are provided 3-layered masks, shield cap and gloves along with sanitisers. “We have got the police station disinfected and our men have been told to be extra careful and cautious while performing their duties,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/constable-tests-positive-14-cops-sent-to-quarantine/articleshow/75089193.cms||---
April 11, 2020||Mumbai||Air India issues contradictory quarantine rules for pilots||MUMBAI: Air India’s medical department and its operations department have contradicted each other over rules for quarantining pilots after international flights. The medical department issued an standard operating procedure (SOP) on Thursday stating that pilots who return from international operations should be put under 14-day home quarantine. But the operations department, citing a circular by Directorate General of Civil Aviation (DGCA), ruled that there is no need to quarantine the pilots, unless there’s a Covid-19 positive case on board the flight they operated. In Air India, as is the case with other airlines, the operations department carries more weight than the medical department. An Air India spokesperson said, “Going by the aforementioned circular, we may be requisitioning the services of some crew members who have not tested positive nor shown any symptom. That’s why the letters may have been issued.” The spokesperson added that the airline was adhering to the DGCA circular. However, there is a contradictory SOP in circulation as well. “Cockpit crew/cabin crew shall be quarantined at home for 14 days, post exposure/international travel,” said the second point in an SOP issued on Thursday by Dr V D Turbadkar, AI deputy general manager-medical services. Currently, Air India pilots are rostered either to operate flights to take stranded foreigners back to their countries or to operate cargo flights. An Air India pilot couple was recently quarantined at Seven Hills after the wife, who had operated a flight from NewYork in March, developed cough and fever about two weeks later. The duo had a harrowing time as they couldn’t get tested at home through a private testing centre as Air India couldn’t provide them with a referral on a doctor’s letterhead.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/air-india-issues-contradictory-quarantine-rules-for-pilots/articleshow/75089198.cms||Manju V
April 11, 2020||Pune||Pune: Self-declared shutdown in many fringe localities||PUNE: Many fringe areas of the city have initiated self-declared closures for three or more days to stop local residents from venturing out without any reason. While Vishrantwadi and Dhanori have already started the closure, areas of Tingrenagar and Vidyanagar joined the shutdown from Thursday. Pockets of Kharadi, Chandanagar, Wadgaonsheri and Wagholi announced closure, which will continue for at least three days, starting from Friday. The residents said that the civic administration has already imposed lockdown measures, local traders and vegetable vendors joined the initiative in ensuring stricter implementation during self-declared closures. Most areas from the city’s eastern parts, which are fast-developing localities, have declared closures. Deepak Mohite, a resident of Wadgaonsheri, said that people have already stocked up on groceries and vegetables. The vegetable vendors have been told to keep their shops shut to prevent unnecessary rush during the three-day lockdown. Ramesh Shete, another resident, said that messages have been circulated on social media platforms in the last couple of days about stricter shutdown. People have responded positively to it. Bhaiyasaheb Jadhav, a local corporator from Wadgaonsheri, said that it was a much-needed step. "Though statistics show that more Covid-19 positive cases have been reported from the city’s central areas, people from other areas should strictly follow social distancing and lockdown restrictions. People should not step out unless there is an emergency", Jadhav said. Sunil Tingre, the local MLA, said that local residents have decided that all establishments, barring milk suppliers, medical shops and hospitals, should be shut. The initiative will be replicated at regular intervals in the next couple of weeks. Last week, a similar lockdown was initiated by the Wagholi gram panchayat. Members of the gram panchayat said that the initiative will be repeated this weekend.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/self-declared-closure-in-many-fringe-areas-to-implement-stricter-lockdown/articleshow/75089205.cms||---
April 11, 2020||Allahabad||Allahabad high court rejects BJP MP Sanghmitra Maurya’s objections against poll plea||PRAYAGRAJ: In a major development, the Allahabad high court on Friday rejected the preliminary objections raised by BJP MP Sanghmitra Maurya against the election petition filed by Dharmendra Yadav, challenging her election from Badaun parliamentary constituency in the Lok Sabha elections held in 2019. While rejecting the preliminary objections of the BJP MP, Justice Ramesh Sinha fixed fixed May 6 as the next date for framing of the issues in the matter. Former MP and Samajwadi Party candidate from Badaun Lok Sabha seat, Dharmendra Yadav, had filed this election petition challenging the election of BJP leader Maurya from Badaun Lok Sabha seat in the last general elections. Maurya had defeated Yadav, a Samajwadi Party candidate, from the aforesaid seat. While rejecting the objections of Maurya, who is daughter of UP cabinet minister Swami Prasad Maurya, the court observed, “In my considered opinion, the contention advanced of counsel for Sanghmitra Maurya that the petitioner Dharmendra Yadav’s statement in the election petition raises no cause of action, is wholly unfounded. It is well settled law that if the election petition speaks about the material facts and concise statement on which the election petitioner relies upon are stated in the election petition, the same should not be thrown at the threshold.” In the present election petition, Yadav, who is a nephew of SP leader and former chief minister Mulayam Singh Yadav, had challenged Maurya’s election from Badaun parliamentary constituency and requested the court to declare her election as null and void. The petitioner had taken the ground that it is a case of improper acceptance of her nomination. It was also contended that in the nomination, there is no disclosure of her marital status and other facts and also there is non-disclosure of the assets of her spouse.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/allahabad/hc-rejects-bjp-mps-objections-against-poll-plea/articleshow/75088486.cms||Rajesh Kumar Pandey
April 11, 2020||Allahabad||Coronavirus lockdown takes toll on blooming biz of flower mkts||Prayagraj: Prayagraj’s wholesale flower markets like Naini, Gaughat and Phaphamau are among the several businesses hampered by the 21-day lockdown announced to contain the novel coronavirus outbreak. With weddings and parties cancelled, and temples shut following prohibitory orders, flower vendors are struggling to sell the blooms, which have a short shelf life. Many local farmers who harvest flowers like rose and marigold in trans-Ganga and trans-Yamuna areas of the city have no other option but throw them away. A wholesale trader from Naini, Rajesh, said “We can do nothing. If the flowers are unsold, we gave to throw them away. We want the state government to take some measures to ensure relief for flower traders like the West Bengal government did.” Another trader Mohan, who is based in Phaphamau, said, “There has been sharp decline in the sale of flowers ever since the lockdown was announced. Farmers growing flowers in areas like Arial, Phaphamau, Mahewa, Manda, Chaka are reeling under mounting losses as their produce remains unsold. The demand for flowers has declined by over 70% as weddings and functions are cancelled and places of worship are shut.” Retailers said that most flower shops are shut because of the lockdown. “Mid-March onwards, we have no orders for decorations for weddings or parties. There is hardly any demand for flowers,” said Ashok, a flower trader. Puneet, who supplies flowers to shops, said he hasn’t been able to supply flowers to his clients for the first time in years. Most vendors who set up shops outside temples or mosques had to shut down as there were no buyers ever since the places of worships were ordered to be closed. Local traders said earlier they had to bring flowers from mandis in Varanasi and Mirzapur mandis to meet the huge demand during the wedding season. However, now they are having a hard time selling the produce brought by local farmers. Ramesh Nishad, who grows and sells flowers in Arial area, said, “Flower markets usually see a lot of business around Ram Navami, but this year the scenario was extremely gloomy. We witnesses one of our lowest sales. The state government should offer financial assistance to farmers growing flowers across the state.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/allahabad/coronavirus-lockdown-takes-toll-on-blooming-biz-of-flower-mkts/articleshow/75088538.cms||---
April 11, 2020||Mangaluru||These warriors man cyber trenches to fight misinformation||Mangaluru: With WhatsApp churning out all kinds of advice during the Covid-19 pandemic, a lot of which is spurious, a group of people are fighting to counter this. These cyber warriors are giving an antidote to the fake information that is spreading online, which is coming in a steady stream. The Corona Warriors initiative of the department of information and public relations (DIPR) is now 22,000 strong. One such warrior is Sahana A, one of the eight Corona Warrior master volunteers in Karnataka. Hailing from Sullia, Sahana, though in charge of countering cyber venom on Covid-19 in her home district of Dakshina Kannada and adjoining Udupi, her responsibilities as master volunteer helps her to get a pulse of the situation from across the state. Corona Warriors is a multi-faceted operation in cyberspace that was conceptualised and initiated by P Manivannan, secretary, DIPR, says Sahana. One of the biggest challenges for the Corona Warriors, in recent times, was to counter a slew of misinformation regarding Tablighi Jamaat delegates, said Sahana. “With each district and divisional group having Corona Warriors from all religions, it is a tightrope walk to bust myths and put out factual information in the public domain,” she says. Then there is also the task of bridging the information deficit that people face to go about their daily lives. Pallavi Honnapura, senior assistant director, DIPR, said there was a perceptible initial resistance from district administrations to the Corona Warrior’s initiative, that the department rolled out with Indian Red Cross Society and labour department. “They were not willing to recognise our volunteers, given that they had their own systems in place,” Pallavi said, adding departments dubbed essential, who were struggling with reduced staff and Covid-19 workload, resisted. Naren Koduvattat, member of the core team from Dakshina Kannada, is always seen online on WhatsApp. When not communicating with the authorities, he is busy posting fake news that was busted by the Corona Warriors. “It is important for people to get authentic information in these trying times, given that some of of the rumourmongers are outright communal,” he said. “Various government bulletins and orders are broadcast to clear confusion in the minds of people, over various issues, amidst the lockdown,” he adds.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mangaluru/these-warriors-man-cyber-trenches-to-fight-misinformation/articleshow/75087955.cms||Jaideep Shenoy
April 11, 2020||Kolkata||Howrah hospital official’s family in quarantine||KOLKATA: The wife and the daughter of the Howrah General Hospital official, who tested positive for Covid-19 on Thursday and was admitted to MR Bangur Hospital, were also shifted to a quarantine centre at New Town the same day. The mother-daughter duo reportedly went through a mental trauma to come to terms with the situation. The official’s wife, a teacher at NRS Medical College and Hospital’s microbiology department, had “never thought of facing such professional hazards”, for which her family had to stay in two separate places. The official was allegedly subjected to ridicule after the death of a Covid-19 patient admitted to Howrah hospital. After he had tested positive for Covid-19, there was panic among senior officials of the hospital and Howrah administration, many of whom opted for home isolation. This led to the closure of the hospital. The official had held meetings with the administrative officials before he was detected with Covid-19. Several staffers and doctors of the hospital are also in quarantine now. A family friend said that the government had promised to offer the “best treatment” to the health official. However, his wife and daughter did not test positive and their samples will be screened again. After further screening of their samples confirms that they are Covid-19 negative, they can return from the quarantine centre to their staff quarters on the Howrah hospital premises. Sources said that both the mother-daughter duo is keeping well while the condition of the health official is stable at MR Bangur Hospital. The official’s family has been under much stress as he was blamed by a section of doctors and other hospital staffers for admitting a patient, who had tested positive for Covid-19 and later died. Health department has appointed BP Shaw, who was earlier additional director of health service, as Howrah CMOH replacing Nishith Baran Mondal.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/howrah-hosp-officials-family-in-quarantine/articleshow/75088640.cms||---
April 11, 2020||Pune||700 NCC cadets put on standby||Pune: As many as 700 senior division cadets of the National Cadet Corps (NCC) have been put on standby as part of augmentation of human resource to assist the state in Covid-19 containment. “These cadets are now well-equipped to perform duties of supplying food, grains, vegetables, and monitoring social distancing in crowded areas etc,” NCC Group Commander Brigadier Suneel Limaye said. “We have taken the consent of parents of the cadets and will take permission from them NCC director-general in New Delhi before attaching them to services,” he added. Sandip Dighe||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/700-ncc-cadets-put-on-standby/articleshow/75089224.cms||---
April 11, 2020||Madurai||Gomathypuram roads sealed as residents violate curfew||Madurai: Melamadai area under the city corporation is one of the Covid hotspots in Madurai, but on Friday, residents of the adjoining Gomathypuram were in for a shock as the area was sealed off creating some panic among them. Melur and Ezhumalai in the rural pockets of the district were contained with barricades as soon as positive cases were reported from there. Though containment measures were also initiated at Melamadai in the city, barricades were not erected as it was believed that the people would stay indoors after the death of a 54-year-old man, the state’s first Covid-19 victim, was reported from there. Things changed on Friday morning after district collector Dr T G Vinay inspected the areas along with corporation commissioner S Visakan as the area was cordoned off with barricades soon after. The first main road, second main road and third main road were completely barricaded with bamboos. Anxious residents started making phone calls to find out if there were fresh cases of Covid-19 in the area. Many of the inner roads inside the area were also closed to restrict vehicle movement. ``We found that there was a lot of movement within and out of the area, and hence decided to seal off all entrances and exits, and for better monitoring,’’ the collector told TOI. Dr Vinay said it was important that they curtailed the movement of the people within a contained region to ensure that they did not carry it to the other parts of the city. Now people would have to show valid reasons while travelling within and outside this region, he said. President of the Gomathypuram - Thendral Nagar Residents Welfare Association, D Raghavan said this was a needed action as they had observed that there was a rise in the movement of the public in the streets. ``All shops have a steady crowd in front of them and people are seen moving without any reason. I received many panic calls from the residents and I told them that it was for their good,’’ he said. The collector said they were talking to shops to ensure door delivery of all goods including groceries, vegetables and medicines at the doorstep. ``The list with contacts would be circulated soon,’’ he said. The collector said that people from only ten spots in the district had contracted Covid-19 and these places had been cordoned off. Of these, three fell under city limits - Melamadai, Thapalthanthi Nagar and Narimedu along with its neighbouring areas – which were inspected by the collector. These places were disinfected with the help of drones and vehicles. The collector also visited shops selling essential goods and made enquiries about the prices of the items being sold. As many as 25 people from Madurai, including those who had participated in the Tablighi Jamaat congregation and people they have been in contact with, have contracted Covid-19. As part of the containment plan, the area falling within a 1-km radius of the affected persons was cordoned off if the place fell under city limits. In case of rural areas, places falling within a 3-km radius were cordoned off. In these contained zones, all the requirements of residents are being met by revenue officials, NGOs and volunteers. This includes door delivery of vegetables and groceries.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/gomathypuram-roads-sealed-as-residents-violate-curfew/articleshow/75089222.cms||---
April 11, 2020||Hyderabad||Telangana firm on curbs on Maharashtra border for two more months||HYDERABAD: The Telangana government, which is firm on continuing the ongoing lockdown for two more weeks, also wants to continue restrictions on the movement of people from neighbouring Maharashtra for two more months. Maharasthra has about 1,100 coronavirus positive cases and the Telangana government fears the neighbouring state may report fresh positive cases if the lockdown is withdrawn. “While Telangana has 500 cases and 12 deaths, Maharashtra has reported about 1,100 cases and nearly 100 deaths. If the state borders are opened, many people from Maharashtra may try to enter our state and similarly people from our may rush to Maharashtra. This may lead to second round of cases and a spurt in positive cases,” health department sources said. Telangana shares borders with Maharashtra in erstwhile Nizamabad and Adilabad districts. Officials recalled that even before the Centre announced the lockdown and sealed the inter-state borders, the state took measures to stop influx of people from the neighbouring state. “The state may not powers to stop flights, but can restrict the movement on the Maharashtra border,” a senior official said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/t-firm-on-curbs-on-maha-border-for-2-more-months/articleshow/75089230.cms||---
April 11, 2020||Ludhiana||Soon, dist to get rapid test kits that give instant results||Ludhiana: Testing and sampling of Covid-19 suspects in Ludhiana will get a major boost as the civil hospital is expected to get rapid test kits that will give results within a few minutes. At present, the health department sends nasopharyngeal and oropharyngeal swabs to Rajindra Hospital in Patiala, which takes over a day to send reports. Senior officers said the arrival of rapid kits within a week would not only increase the number of tests daily, but also help in taking random samples, including those of asymptomatic and other vulnerable people. As of now, tests of only suspected cases are being conducted at the civil hospital. A senior officer said the state government would get rapid test kits from the supplier approved by the Indian Council of Medical Research and these would arrive in two to three days. “The number of tests has also increased at Rajindra Hospital, Patiala, and an Amritsar hospital from 200 to 400 per day,” he said. “As of now we are taking nasopharyngeal and oropharyngeal swabs of those with travel history and of the persons who came in contact with positive cases and the secondary contacts. We send all the samples to Rajindra Hospital. If the ICMR issues new guidelines and kits, maximum sampling will be done and screening tests will be conducted at the flu corner of the civil hospital. We will do mobile testing too, but the state has to decide that,” Dr Rajesh Bagga, civil surgeon, Ludhiana, said. A senior government officer said they were not conducting random tests of asymptomatic persons, though it was very important to check the disease spread. “Virus containment can be achieved with rapid test kits, as we can randomly start testing and get instant reports,” he added.  Deputy commissioner Pradeep Aggarwal said, “Testing is done as per the health department protocols. We have heard that rapid test kits are being procured. Ludhiana should get these kits.”TEST REPORT CARDHealth department officials said as of now national testing average was between 30 and 40 tests per million whereas for Punjab it was more than 105 tests per million. They added that in Ludhiana the average was more than 140 tests per million. Ludhiana districtTotal tests: 574 Negative: 443Positive: 12 (One each of Jalandhar and Barnala)Deaths: 2||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/soon-dist-to-get-rapid-test-kits-that-give-instant-results/articleshow/75087993.cms||Shariq Majeed
April 11, 2020||Dehradun||Uncertainty shrouds Indo-China trade through Lipulekh due to Covid-19||Pithoragarh:The outbreak of novel coronavirus has cast clouds of uncertainty over the annual Indo-China border trade through Lipukekh pass. Due to the on-going lockdown, traders have not been able to make arrangements for the border trade. Khermsnand Bhatt, assistant trade officer, told TOI, “Some activities relating to the Indo-China border trade, conducted under supervision of Union ministry of external affairs, started in the first week of this month but we haven’t received any official communication regarding it.” Rajendra Singh Raypa, a trader, told TOI, “We haven’t started preparations for the annual border trade as we don’t know whether it will happen this year or not. Due to coronavirus pandemic, we haven’t even purchased our stock yet. Traders are likely to suffer massive losses this year.” Another local trader told TOI that livelihood of several families depend on this border trade and the government must make sure that it is conducted smoothly. “Last year, 265 trade passes were issued. As many as 69 traders and 196 helpers took part in the annual trade. India exported goods worth Rs 33 lakh and imported goods worth Rs 1.25 crore. In 2019, this border trade started from the first week of June and culminated on October 31,” Bhatt added. Notably, the annual trade through Lipukekh pass is going on since 1992 following an agreement between India and China. For this trade, Indian traders go to Taklakot mart in China and Chinese traders come to Gunji mart in India.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/uncertainty-shrouds-indo-china-trade-through-lipulekh-due-to-covid-19/articleshow/75088644.cms||Prem Punetha
April 11, 2020||Madurai||Police have a tough time as public, motorists move at will||Madurai: Police personnel are playing an important role in the lockdown to prevent the spread of Covid-19 by ensuring that people stay at home. However, the careless public is making this task extremely difficult for the personnel as heated arguments are taking place between the people and the police officials in many parts of the city.As soon as the lockdown was announced, the district administration and corporation had taken many measures to ensure that the people stay indoors like the launch of mobile markets. But, this did not deter the people much and they were found travelling from the city. Following this, the city police locked down the bridges to restrict movement.The AV Bridge in Goripalayam, a place which is crowded especially in the morning hours with vehicles trying to cross over into the city was locked down. However, on Thursday and Friday, there were heavy traffic jams at the junction and the police personnel were finding it difficult to control the motorists, who were trying to get past the barricade when it was opened for a government vehicle or ambulance.Braving the afternoon heat, a team of police personnel were trying to send them back to their homes. “We have been told to deal with them politely but some of them are impossible to deal with,” said a police official.Only when the police personnel attempted to confiscate the keys of the motorists, they turned around causing a traffic jam, like on Thursday, when an ambulance found it difficult to move through the congested traffic.Deputy commissioner of police (traffic), K Sugumaran said that they usually found it very difficult from 5 am to 10 am when the people think it is important to go to market and purchase things. “Many believe that the best non-vegetarian meat and fish is available in Nelpettai and insist on going there almost every day,” he said. “Many people bring medical prescriptions, which are over three months old and show it as a reason to cross the bridge and we deny them permission,” he added.He said that the police had booked over 3,000 cases under section 179 of the Motor Vehicles Act, which is for obstruction and refusal of information asked by the authorities. “There are over 300 traffic police personnel on duty on the city roads during this crisis period, per day, and we are sometimes lenient if we find a person wearing a mask and not a helmet because we want them to realize the gravity of this situation and adhere to the rules,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/police-have-a-tough-time-as-public-motorists-move-at-will/articleshow/75089234.cms||---
April 11, 2020||Kolkata||After 2 dry weeks, offloading of liquor set to start at warehouses in West Bengal||KOLKATA: There is some good news for tipplers after more than two dry weeks. The state beverage corporation (Bevco) has started functioning from Friday. Bevco is the distribution arm of the state government which now controls wholesale liquor trade in Bengal. Bevco forms the backbone of the liquor trade supply chain to retailers. An Excise official said that the employees and officers of Bevco have resumed work following instruction from the Excise department. Primarily, Bevco workers will engage in offloading trucks standing near different warehouses. Bevco has 22 warehouses in the state in different locations. According to officials, following the lockdown from March 23 afternoon, a lot of trucks of manufacturers are stuck in warehouses. “March 22 was ‘janta curfew’ and March 23 being Monday, most of the Bevco warehouses were closed. So, trucks had entered on Saturday evening and on Sunday morning, they could not be offloaded,” an official added. It has been learnt that Bevco warehouses have stocks for 6-7 days taken together IMFL and beer. “There is no problem of stocks in warehouses now,” added sources. Incidentally, West Bengal is a market of 14.1 million (1.4 crore) cases of hard IMFL that includes whisky, ram, vodka etc and 8 million (80 lakh cases) of beer. Besides, country spirits has a market of 3.1 crore cases. Each case of IMFL used to have 9 litres. Bengal has seven distilleries and three breweries. A leading retailer of IMFL pointed out that if offshops are being allowed to function for a limited timeframe, then the state has to draw a roadmap for starting operations of distilleries and breweries as well after some time. Executive chairman of International Spirits and Wines Association of India, Amrit Kiran Singh, said two state governments — Goa and Uttar Pradesh — have already allowed distilleries to start functioning to build up inventories so that in near future off shops can operate. ISWA represents 80% of the liquor producers in India. He also hailed the decision of the state to allow Bevco to start operations. “The states need to take initiative. As per FSSAI ct 2006, food is essential item and alcohol has been classified as food item in this act a few years ago. The combined revenue of the states from liquor is a whopping Rs 2.5 lakh crore and every day states are losing Rs 700 crore ,” he added. West Bengal has a revenue of over Rs 10,000 crore from excise and monthly loss stands at close to Rs 1,000 crore considering a higher revenue target for the new fiscal. The Excise department has already extended the timeframe for renewal of liquor licence and registration of brands from March 31 to June 30.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/after-2-dry-weeks-offloading-of-liquor-set-to-start-at-warehouses/articleshow/75088643.cms||---
April 11, 2020||Hyderabad||Hyderabad doctors a call away to beat Covid-19 blues||HYDERABAD: Undergoing a lot of stress or feeling depressed because of coronavirus scare? Psychiatrists are only a call away in Khammam with the district administration working out a telemedicine arrangement with them. The district administration has also put out a list of names of psychiatrists whom the public can consult if they are feeling stressed out or depressed. ‘De-stress Corona’ provides telemedicine with help from doctors in Khammam, Palair, Wyra, Madhira and Sathupally being available on call. Doctors of the Indian Medical Association (IMA) have registered themselves to be part of the effort. Announcing the initiative on Friday, district collector RV Karnan urged people to make use of the hassle-free medical services while staying at home. Names, telephone numbers and timings during which the doctors will be available for consultation have been made public. Medical personnel with specialisation in general surgery, orthopaedics, neurosurgery, psychiatry, urology, diabetes and thyroid, dermatology, gastroenterology, pulmonology, paediatrics, obstetrician and gynaecologist, ophthalmologist, nephrology and ENT would be available. Two cases of Covid-19 have been confirmed so far in Khammam. At government hospital in Khammam, preventive and safety measures have been put in place for the staff. Collection cabins have been set up through which the personnel collect samples of suspected Covid patients from a safe distance. Such an arrangement is a first time in the state in any hospital, officials claimed.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/docs-a-call-away-to-beat-covid-19-blues/articleshow/75089253.cms||Ch Sushil Rao
April 11, 2020||Goa||Humans away, turtle hatchlings may see 100% success rate in Goa||PANAJI: The lockdown may have inconvenienced citizens in many ways, but it has led to 90 hatchlings emerging from a turtle nest at Morjim on Wednesday night. “The turtle habitat has improved ever since the lockdown has been imposed. There is no public interference since people no longer attempt to venture into the protected area,” forest official Vishwanath Bugde said. Despite efforts at turtle conservation, there are casualties. Now however, because of less disturbance, the forest department is anticipating more hatchlings. “There were 135 eggs in the nest and so far, 90 have hatched and left the nest. It will take a day or two for the rest to hatch,” said chief wildlife warden Santosh Kumar. “We will calculate the success ratio of survival based on the remaining hatchlings,” he said. The eggs are protected for 45 to 50 days and after hatching they require to be guided into the sea. Forest officials posted at the site manage to work every despite transportation problems due to the lockdown. In the initial days of the lockdown, they even stayed overnight and performed their duties, sources said. Goa’s turtle conservation programme commenced in 1996 with the protection of Olive Ridley turtles at Morjim. Recognising the importance of protecting the endangered species, the forest department and Morjim locals began protecting turtle nests. x However, a few instances of encroachments have come to light, some by foreigners who keep track of the hatching period and visit at night during the release of the hatchlings. Another batch of turtles that is likely to hatch on April 14 according to the calculations of their periodic studies.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/humans-away-turtle-hatchlings-may-see-100-success-rate/articleshow/75089265.cms||Nida Sayed
April 11, 2020||Mangaluru||Karnataka: Carnivores fed chicken instead of red meat at Pilikula||MANGALURU: Due to red meat not being available due to the lockdown, carnivorous animals at Pilikula Biological Park are being fed chicken. There is also a poor supply of fish, which is a staple for some bird varieties at the biological park. The zoo requires 150kg of red meat every day for its carnivorous animals, which is now being replaced with chicken. “However, this cannot continue for long, as chicken is not the natural diet of tigers, lions and other large carnivores. We are hoping that the situation improves in a few days,” says H Jayaprakash Bhandary, the director of the park. He said that ever since the lockdown was clamped, the supply of meat through contractors was stopped, as there is a restriction on the movement of vehicles. The zoo authorities decided to switch over to chicken, as the supply chain was affected. “There was again the problem of outbreak of bird flu or avian influenza in neighbouring states, and keeping in mind the birds at the zoo, we decided to feed chicken from local hatcheries only. There is also a shortage of fish, but we are now managing to procure some from various sources,” said Bhandary. The zoo currently houses 12 tigers, four lions, 12 leopards, the endangered dholes (Asiatic wild dog), foxes, hyenas and other carnivores. Bhandary said that tigers, lions and leopards are major consumers of red meat, followed by the other carnivores. “Usually chicken is fed to crocodiles and other smaller animals. Fish is a favourite of water birds,” he said. Asked when the supply will get to normal, Bhandary said that they are getting a small quantity of red meat from the past two days. “The situation may improve in some days,” he felt. Dr Vasanth M Shetty, a retired veterinarian, said that feeding chicken to animals that usually subsist on red meat will not harm them. “In fact, it is a good supplement. We veterinarians suggest feeding ailing animals chicken, instead of red meat, because it is easier to digest,” he said. The zoo is also on alert, after a tiger in New York Zoo tested positive for Covid-19.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mangaluru/carnivores-fed-chicken-instead-of-red-meat-at-pilikula/articleshow/75088005.cms||Kevin Mendonsa
April 11, 2020||Ludhiana||MC staff refuse, firm to lift waste from houses of suspected, positive cases||tnnLudhiana: With the municipal corporation sanitation staff refusing to lift garbage from the houses of those infected, the authorities have decided to hand over the task to the company handling biomedical waste disposal in the city.While expressing concern over the health of their colleagues and families, the sanitation staff said that they should not be deputed for lifting solid waste from the houses of suspected and positive coronavirus cases as they were not trained enough to handle it. Chief sanitary inspector Ashwani Sahota said, “The MC staff does not know how to handle biomedical waste properly, so those trained should do this job. MC commissioner KP Brar has decided to give this task to the firm that is already collecting biomedical waste here. We have provided yellow bags to such houses. The firm employees will collect these bags and dispose them of scientifically.” Cremation of unclaimed bodiesMC secretaries Neeraj Jain and JS Sekhon visited Dholewal chowk military complex cremation ground to meet its management on Friday. The management has allowed cremation of unclaimed bodies of coronavirus victims in gas crematorium. Sekhon said, “The DC has instructed them to make arrangements for cremation of bodies in gas crematorium in case families refuse to come forward. MC is also performing the last rites of abandoned bodies. We will now have to arrange gas cylinders for the purpose.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/mc-staff-refuse-firm-to-lift-waste-from-houses-of-suspected-positive-cases/articleshow/75088008.cms||---
April 11, 2020||Ludhiana||10-yr-old Covid-19 suspect dies||tnnLudhiana: A 10-year-old girl, who was a suspected coronavirus case, died at the civil hospital on Friday evening. The girl, a resident of Dhandra Road, Dugri Phase II, was brought to the hospital on April 10 in a serious condition with complaint of breathlessness. Senior medical officer Dr Ravi Dutt said, “She had cough for two weeks and was brought here with serious symptoms. She started developing copious sputum. And then she had a cardiorespiratory arrest. CPR was given, but she could not be revived and passed away at 8.15am. We were thinking of referring her to Rajindra Hospital, Patiala, but she died. We have sent her throat swab for testing.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/10-yr-old-covid-19-suspect-dies/articleshow/75088017.cms||---
April 11, 2020||Chandigarh||After thief tests +ve, cops to tread cautiously||Ludhiana: A day after 17 cops, including the Focal Point police station SHO, were home quarantined after a thief they arrested tested positive for Covid-19, policemen are a worried lot.The accused was caught in a snatching and vehicle-lifting case. Cops say neither it is feasible to wear PPE kits all day, especially during field work, nor so many of these are available. An inspector says, “Though it is our duty and we will keep doing it, we are now scared to arrest accused. Even if a suspect shows no coronavirus symptoms, he may later test positive. All cops cannot wear PPE kits all day. Besides, sufficient kits are not available and these can be used once only. We are waiting for further instructions in this regard.” An SHO says, “The April 9 incident is quite unfortunate. We are all discussing this issue. As we cannot ignore our duty, we will now have to tread cautiously.”A sub-inspector says, “We are more concerned about our families. I have asked all cops in the police station to wash their hands frequently, use sanitizers and wear masks. Precaution is the key to stay safe.” An assistant commissioner of police says, “We have asked cops to use gloves and masks all day. They have been told to use handcuffs that have a 5 feet-long chain to maintain distance. Duty and safety go hand in hand.” Deputy commissioner of police (headquarters) Akhil Chaudhary says, “Fresh instructions have been given to cops to wear masks and gloves, especially when apprehending an accused. Gloves should be disposed of after an arrest. They have been asked to keep washing hands and use sanitizers. Social distancing will be followed while producing accused in courts and hospitals for medical examination. The cops have also been asked to get accused examined the day they are detained.” Hydroxychloroquine tablets to be given to cops DCP Akhil Chaudhary says, “The cops will be given hydroxychloroquine tablets on a weekly basis. The tablets will be handed over to SHOs, who will ensure that all cops in their respective police stations take it every week.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/after-thief-tests-ve-cops-to-tread-cautiously/articleshow/75088003.cms||Payal Dhawan
April 11, 2020||Ludhiana||Liquor vend worker’s murder solved, 2 held||Times News Network Ludhiana: The police on Friday claimed to have solved the April 3 murder of a liquor vend worker in Chupki village, here, with the arrest of two.The victim, Ramesh Chand, as well as the accused, Amandeep Singh, 26, and Gursagant Singh, 20, are residents of the same village.Ramesh, 45, a native of Kangra, had been working at the vend from the past three years.Sadar police station SHO inspector Jagdev Singh said, “A co-worker had found Ramesh dead when he went to the vend to open it on April 3. While checking those who had visited the vend, we zeroed in on two villagers — Amandeep and Gursangat — who had bought liquor from there that day.” The duo was detained and during interrogation, they confessed to have committed the murder. “They said on the night of April 2, they had gone to the vend to buy liquor. After some drinks, they decided to loot the vend and armed themselves with an iron rod and a hammer. They again went to the vend on the pretext of purchasing more liquor. And when Ramesh opened the door, the duo attacked him. They escaped from there after stealing Rs 16,000. They killed Ramesh as he knew them,” the inspector added. Rs 14,000 of the steal and the weapons used in the crime have been recovered from the two, who were arrested on Thursday night.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/liquor-vend-workers-murder-solved-2-held/articleshow/75088026.cms||---
April 11, 2020||Kanpur||Retired cop in Madhya Pradesh donates his pension savings||KANPUR: In a heart-warming gesture, a 76-year-old retired Madhya Pradesh police, personnel walked into the tehsildar’s in Ghatampur area of the district to hand over a cheque amounting to Rs 1 lakh from his pension savings to fight against coronavirus. Police personnel Ram Avatar Singh, handed the cheque to tehsildar Vijay Yadav as a contribution towards the CM’s Relief Fund on Wednesday. To recall, the government has appealed to the people to contribute in the fund to fight against Covid-19. "Seventy-six year old Ram Avtar, retired as a constable from state armed police of Madhya Pradesh, and a resident of Kohra village in Sajeti area of the district, donated his entire savings to his village head in the war against the dreaded Covid -19 pandemic," said tehsildar Vijay Yadav.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kanpur/retired-cop-donates-his-pension-savings/articleshow/75073889.cms||---
April 11, 2020||Ludhiana||22-yr-old misuses, tampers with curfew pass, arrested||Times News Network Ludhiana: The police on Thursday night arrested the son of a city-based transporter for roaming around in the city after tampering with a curfew pass. Akshit Khosla, 22, a resident of Urban Estate, Jamalpur, was nabbed near Nanaksar Gurdwara, where police had set up a checkpost.Sub-inspector Richa Rani said, “An SUV (PB10FG0077) was stopped at the checkpost. The man at the wheel identified himself as Akshit Khosla. He said he had a curfew pass. On checking, we found the pass was issued for a different route. Therefore, a case was registered and the SUV impounded. Later, it was identified that the pass was issued to Akshit’s father, Mukesh Khosla. Akshit had tampered with it and written his name on it.” The pass he flashed was a manual one issued by ACP (Industrial Area-A) Vebhav Sehgal for giving salaries to workers. The route permission it allowed was from Focal Point to Jamalpur. But Akshit was commuting in a different area, she added. A case has been registered against him under sections 188 (disobedience to orders duly promulgated by public servant) and 269 (negligent act likely to spread infection or disease dangerous to life) of the IPC. “As he altered the pass, more sections will be added to the FIR,” the sub-inspector said.False alarm lands man in soupIn another case, the police have arrested a resident of Jamalpur’s labour quarters for lodging a false complaint that he and his neighbours had no food. Municipal corporation supervisor Tarun Verma said, “Amit Kumar called up the police control room and told them that about 300 labourers lived in the labour quarters and they had no food to eat. When I, along with a team, reached there to give them food, we found essential items stocked up in their quarters. Every person had about 20kg wheat flour and other essential goods.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/22-yr-old-misuses-tampers-with-curfew-pass-arrested/articleshow/75088028.cms||---
April 11, 2020||Allahabad||Cop, neta among 3 detained for selling confiscated alcohol||Prayagraj: A constable, a former village head and one other person were detained for allegedly selling liquor earlier seized by the police in Raiya village under Soraon police station on Friday. The accused were identified as constable Raj Kumar, Ziya Lal and Dhara Patal. Lal has been a village pradhan and is a Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) leader. Police said that another head constable, Vijay Bahadur, was involved in the crime and is currently absconding. He was posted at Soraon police station. SSP (Prayagraj) Satyarth Anirudh Pankaj said, “The group of four had been selling liquor during the lockdown. They managed to sell more than 100 cartons of liquor, which was confiscated by the police during a raid last month.” Police were tipped off that the two men were selling liquor at higher prices in Raiya village early Friday morning. A police team raided the location and nabbed the three on the spot. An FIR would be lodged against them in connection with the case, said the SSP.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/allahabad/cop-neta-among-3-detained-for-selling-confiscated-alcohol/articleshow/75088548.cms||---
April 11, 2020||Bhopal||Test more, use cheaper & faster anti-bodies test: Nath to Chouhan||Bhopal: Former chief minister Kamal Nath on Friday demanded punitive action against officials who locked 47 people and their families indoors for suspected Coronavirus infections in the towns of Rajnagar and Khajuraho in Chhattarpur district. The senior Congress leader also wrote a letter to chief minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan expressing concern over the insufficient number of tests being conducted for Corona virus infections. He advised that together with the more expensive and time consuming RT-PCR tests, government should us the lesser expensive anti-body tests for cities like Indore and Bhopal where the infection is spreading rapidly. About the forced home imprisonment of 47 persons and their families in Chhattarpur district, Kamal Nath on Friday tweeted, “Received information of 47 persons and their families locked indoors and their doors sealed from outside by the administration in view of Coronavirus infection in Rajnagar and Khajuraho towns of Chattarpur district. This is a step taken in total depression, oppression and inhumanity. It is also violation of human rights. Government should immediately intervene in the matter, take appropriate steps and action against those responsible.” On twitter, @OfficeOfKNath also paid homage to the second doctor who died treating Coronavirus patients in Indore. Late on Thursday evening, Kamal Nath also sent a letter to chief minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan about the insufficient number of tests being conducted in the state. Ït is a matter of concern that compared to other countries in the world, we are testing very few. For every 10 lakh population, the national average is121 tests. And, in Madhya Pradesh, the numbers are just 55 (till April 8, 2020 only 4056 tests were conducted on a total population of 7.25 crore)” Kamal Nath’s letter argued that in Germany 15,730 tests were done per 10 lakh population, in Switzerland it was 19,867 and Norway conducted 21,009 tests. Even a small country like Chile tested 3159 persons. The former chief minister suggested, “The present RT-PCR test should be maintained though it takes a longer time. But because this test works first on changing RNA to DNA before testing for Coronavirus, it takes longer time and more money.” The former chief minister argued that one RT-PCR test costs Rs 4,500 whereas anti-body test takes only 30 minutes and does not require experts. “The test can be done by taking a small blood sample and costs only Rs 300. We must conduct this test in cities like Indore and Bhopal where the infection is spreading rapidly. Along with RT-PCR, also conduct the anti-body tests,” he wrote.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/test-more-use-cheaper-faster-anti-bodies-test-nath-to-chouhan/articleshow/75088655.cms||Suchandana Gupta
April 11, 2020||Rajkot||418 arrested for lockdown violation||Rajkot: As many as 418 people were arrested on charges of violating lockdown order in Rajkot city and Jamnagar district in the past 24 hours. In Rajkot city, 161 people were caught, while in Jamnagar district, 257 people were held.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/418-arrested-for-lockdown-violation/articleshow/75088581.cms||---
April 11, 2020||Kanpur||30 suspected cases quarantined in Kanpur||KANPUR: The health department on Thursday quarantined as many as 30 Covid-19 suspected persons. As many as 4,730 persons out of 4,970 persons, who either came from outside the city or had travelled abroad, have been sent to the quarantine centres by the health authorities. The city has so far recorded 11 corona positive cases while one out of them has successfully regained health after treatment and sent to his home. According to the health bulletin, four more persons who had been quarantined were found to be negative. Thus, 488 persons have so far recovered from the virus Two suspected persons have been hospitalised on Thursday while four are being treated in various hospitals. Meanwhile, district magistrate Brahmadeo Ram Tiwari and SSP Anant Deo visited five hotspot areas of the city. They said that essential commodities in those areas were being made available through respective police stations. The residents on Thursday purchased the required items through door-to door delivery system. The DM also inspected Machharia and Babupurwa areas. Police are strictly enforcing the lockdown in the hotspot areas and even using drones. Meanwhile, teams of the health department visited the hotspot areas provided medical aid, checked suspected cases and also got the areas sanitized. Municipal commissioner Akshay Tripathi while inspecting Babupurwa and Munshipurwa areas under zone-3 saw some drains overflowing due to choked outlets. He immediately called the sanitary staff and got them cleaned. The HDFC Bank presented 400 masks, 400 pair of hand gloves and many bottles of sanitizers to the municipal commissioner for sanitary workers. He said under telemedicine scheme as many as 76 people contacted doctors on phones and got consultation for fever and nose, throat and fever related problems. KMC had prepared an area-wise lists of medical stores from where patients could take medical advice through telemedicine, the municipal commissioner said. To strictly enforce the lockdown, police challaned 311 vehicles, seized five vehicles and collected Rs 7000 as fine amount. They also registered cases against two persons under the Essential Commodities Act.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kanpur/30-suspected-cases-quarantined-in-city/articleshow/75073901.cms||---
April 11, 2020||Ahmedabad||Urgent Rx for state: Containment, testing||Ahmedabad: As many as 21 individuals living in two apartments of Danilimda tested positive for Covid in a single day, on April 8. Of the total, six people has come in contact with a person who had tested positive earlier. Other cases are the result of local transmission, said state health department officials. Indeed, densely populated areas of Gujarat are a source of serious worry for administrators. On April 5, Nagarwada-Saiyadpura area of Vadodara recorded the first positive case, a 54-year-old man. Five days later, as many as 48 cases were registered in the cluster. In Ahmedabad, AMC officials said that 49 samples were taken at the field level on April 4. The number of samples taken on April 7, 8, and 9 were 602, 810, and 748. Majority of these samples were taken from the clustered areas, the officials said. Overall sampling has been ramped up in Gujarat with 1,519 samples being taken on Friday alone. Experts say that intensive testing of the entire population in areas such as the Walled City in Ahmedabad is the only way to contain the spread of Covid. “The classic example of what one case can do is presented in Gandhinagar where a single case resulted in 10 cases in the district, which has recorded 14 cases so far,” said a senior state health department official. “The death of an 80-year-old man on Friday — the first in the district — is also associated with the same case.” The official said that three of the individuals have now been discharged. “But it doesn’t take away from the fact that a single infection spurred a massive exercise,” the official said. “It was to identify about 300 persons who had visited a government dispensary.” Patan district officials said that they had no option but to lock down Nendra village, about 10km from Siddhpur, after the death of a 47-year-old man on April 5. “So far, nine people who had come in contact with the person have tested positive,” an official said. “We are awaiting the results of a few more tests. About 15 persons had come in contact with the original patient.” In Surat, 1sq km area in Rander has been turned into a containment zone after two positive cases were reported. The area has so far reported one death and four new positive cases as the zone was expanded on April 7 up to Adajan Patiya. Bharuch, which did not record any positive case till March 10, reported seven cases in a day on Friday. “Ikhar village with a population of 7,000 has been placed under containment as a 7km radius area in Amod taluka has been identified as the buffer zone,” said an official. “Intensive testing is likely to be initiated.” (Reporting from Prashant Rupera in Vadodara and Melvyn Thomas from Surat)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/urgent-rx-for-state-containment-testing/articleshow/75088760.cms||---
April 11, 2020||Bhopal||Disclose your travel history or face action: Jabalpur collector||Jabalpur: Information and travel history of all the people who have a travel history of stepping out of Jabalpur since March 10, is being collected. District collector Bharat Yadav has ordered that it is mandatory for the residents to inform if they have any kind of travel history after March 10, including travel to other states, cities or any other country. Those not providing the information will be liable for action, the collector said in his order. People can also provide information online or through telephone by calling the control room set up at Jabalpur Smart City office to tackle coronavirus infection. Administrative officer of Jabalpur Smart City Private Limited, Ravi Rao, said, “Collection of information from people, who have domestic travel history, has started from April 9. Information regarding the foreign travel history of patients has already been collected. On the first day, travel details of 3,000 people were recorded. We are also seeking data from domestic airline companies, bus operators, railways and taxi service operators.” Rao also informed that an app is being developed by the Jabalpur Smart City, which would enable the users to order for vegetables and groceries online. “It is under trial and if things go well, it would be launched from Monday onwards,” he added. Meanwhile, in past two weeks, only one positive patient has been reported in the city, taking the total number of positive patients reported from Jabalpur to 9, four of them have, however, recovered. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/disclose-your-travel-history-or-face-action-jabalpur-collector/articleshow/75088662.cms||---
April 11, 2020||Madurai||Covid-19 testing lab to go operational at Tuticorin||Madurai: The RT-PCR laboratory for testing Covid-19 samples will be operational at the government Thoothukudi government medical college hospital from Saturday. Information and publicity minister Kadambur C Raju told reporters in Tuticorin on Friday that it was set up at Rs 60 lakh.Samples collected from Tuticorin district were sent to the government medical college hospital in Tirunelveli. Establishing the new laboratory will reduce time taken in getting results. The minister also urged public to contribute generously to the chief minister relief fund. He added that close to Rs 60 lakh has been contributed to the same by the people of Tuticorin.Thanking actor Siva Karthikeyan for setting an example by contributing Rs 25 lakh and director actor Raghava Lawrence for contributing Rs 3 crore to Covid-19 affected people, he made an appeal to others to contribute based on their capacity, ability and stature. “The government alone cannot control it,” he said and stressed on the need for collaborative efforts and contributions.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/covid-19-testing-lab-to-go-operational-at-tuticorin/articleshow/75089280.cms||---
April 11, 2020||Mysuru||Karnataka: Tiger reserves step up efforts to monitor wildlife health||MYSURU: The authorities at tiger reserves in Karnataka have started monitoring the health condition of tigers and other animals through camera traps. On their toes after a four-year-old tiger in New York’s Bronx Zoo tested positive for Covid-19 – the first such known case in an animal – they have initiated measures as per directions from the Union ministry of environment, forest and climate change and health and family welfare department. Through these initiatives, animals are being checked for Covid-19 symptoms like respiratory issues, nasal discharge and coughing. Nagarahole Tiger Reserve director D Mahesh Kumar said he has formed a seven-member task force to monitor the initiatives taken to prevent infection among animals and the forest department staff. The forest department has provided masks to its staff and directed them to wash their hands regularly. Forest authorities are also sanitising vehicles belonging to the department. “Department staff who come to duty from outside the forest are being advised to take preventive measures. We are procuring disinfectant chemicals,” said Kumar. Mahouts and kavadis in elephant camps are being sensitized and asked to avoid interaction with outsiders and regularly use disinfectants. The staff who have to visit places outside the forest have been asked maintain social distancing from people and wear masks. Kumar said the personnel working in the anti-poaching camps are directed not to interact with outsiders. “We have procured and distributed groceries for the entire month of April. This is to ensure zero interface to the outside world,” he said. The Nagarahole Tiger Reserve has frontline staff of 200 members. As a temporary measure, 400 tribals have been appointed as fire watchers during summer. Mysuru wildlife warden Krithika Alanahally said that safari in the reserves was temporarily stopped much before the lockdown.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mysuru/tiger-reserves-step-up-efforts-to-monitor-wildlife-health/articleshow/75088059.cms||Lakshmikantha BK
April 11, 2020||Kanpur||Kanpur: Two policemen attacked for stopping animal slaughter||KANPUR: Two mobile beat police personnel were beaten up by a group of people when they went to stop animal slaughter in Baraur police area of Kanpur Dehat district. The incident occurred in Haiderpur village of the district on Thursday when the police personnel were on way to stop slaughtering of animal. Speaking to media, ASP Anoop Kumar said, "Two mobile beat police personnel, identified as Ahmad Khan and Neeraj Kumar, were manhandled in an attack by a group of people which included Irfan, Irshad, Naushad, Shama, Israil, Shanu, Sarwari, Nargis, Yaseen, Kasra and Nafeesa while attempting to stop them from slaughtering the animal. Strict action will be taken and those involved in the attack will be arrested soon as raids are underway”. A total of 18 identified and five unidentified people have been booked under relevant sections of IPC besides sections of the Disaster Management Act and Epidemic Diseases Act in this regard, the ASP added. Following the incident, police force was deployed in the village to prevent any untoward incident from taking place.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kanpur/2-policemen-attacked-for-stopping-animal-slaughter/articleshow/75089150.cms||---
April 11, 2020||Kanpur||70 coaches converted into isolation wards for corona||JHANSI: As many as seventy general and sleeper coaches have been converted into Covid-19 isolation wards by the Jhansi division of North Central Railways. As per NCR PRO (Jhansi division), Manoj Kumar Singh, all the seventy coaches are ready and can be sent to any required station at a short notice. Each coach can accommodate eight patients—one in each cabin—and the ninth cabin is secured for the medical staff. One of the loos in each coach has been transformed into a bathroom which has a hand shower, while the wash basin has been fitted with a special tap which can be used even with the help of elbow. 50 of these coaches were designed in the MLR workshop, 15 in Jhansi depot and five in Gwalior depot. Meanwhile, prototype of a sanitization tunnel was designed at the electric loco shed here with an aim to disinfect passengers and railway workers when the rail transport is restored in the country. Army distributes food: The Indian Army on Wednesday distributed food and other essential commodities to the underprivileged in Jhansi and Babina under Operation Namaste. Various units of Army located in Jhansi and Babina distributed food packets and other essentials to 466 poor families in the nearby tribal villages including Sahariya, Singariya, Rasina and a few settlements in Lalkurti and Hansari.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kanpur/70-coaches-converted-into-isolation-wards-for-corona/articleshow/75073933.cms||---
April 11, 2020||Kanpur||Man shot by unidentified assailants in Kanpur||KANPUR: A 65-year-old man, who was sleeping in the verandah of his house in Farrukhabad’s Shamshadbad Kotwali police area, was allegedly shot by assailants on Wednesday night. Police identified the deceased as Ganga Ram Rajput of Khwaja Ahmadpur Katiya village. According to the deceased’s son Nar Singh, his father was sleeping when he heard a gunshot sound. “When I came out in the verandah, I saw my father bleeding. The assailants had fled. I could not identify them,” he told mediapersons. Meanwhile, police said the murder could be the fallout of a revenge attack over an old dispute. “We are probing the case from different angles,” said SP Anil Mishra. Arrested: Two smugglers were arrested while trying to smuggle illicit liquor on GT road in Sisamau Police area, on Thursday. “On being frisked, the police recovered 15 cartons containing more than 700 bottles of English liquor from their four-wheeler,” said SP West Anil Kumar.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kanpur/man-shot-by-unidentified-assailants/articleshow/75073907.cms||---
April 11, 2020||Gurgaon||Class 10 paper evaluation by teachers at home: A first||GURUGRAM: The Board of School Education Haryana (BSEH) has declared that answer sheets of the students who appeared for Class 10 exams will be evaluated by teachers from home. It’s a first in the history of Haryana board exam. The decision has been taken in the wake of spike in number of Covid-19 patients across the state. The prevailing situation has forced the state government to declare setting up of numerous containment and buffer zones to restrict public movement. The evaluation will begin from Saturday and all teachers who have been assigned the duty will collect the Class 10 answer sheets from centres as communicated by education offices.The directorate of education has stated special attention is being given to ensure that norms of preventive measures are followed by officials. The stacks of answer sheets will be sanitised before handing it over to teachers. On Saturday, around 6,000 teachers will report to block education officers at designated centres. Each teacher will be given a bundle of 300 sheets for evaluation by April 21 and these papers will have to be submitted by April 22.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/gurgaon/class-10-paper-evaluation-by-teachers-at-home-a-first/articleshow/75089289.cms||---
April 11, 2020||Goa||Goa: 23 test negative, reports of 11 Covid suspects awaited||PANAJI: The reports of 11 suspects were awaited on Friday, while 23 tests reports have tested negative for Covid-19, a medical bulletin issued on Friday stated. Goa hasn’t reported any positive case after 3 April, an official said. The state has six active Covid-19 cases, and one person who was declared cured has been placed under mandatory 14 days quarantine since Thursday. Four suspects were admitted in the isolation ward of Goa Medical College (GMC) and hospital, whereas 10 samples were sent for testing on Friday. As many as 56 persons have been placed under home quarantine. Dr Dilip Hinge from the National Institute of Virology (NIV), Pune, has been deputed in GMC’s virology laboratory to train doctors and other technical staff. His tasks will include evaluating the performance of ‘My Lab’ kits used for testing Covid-19 swab samples as well as any other relevant work he may be assigned by GMC dean S M Bandekar. Hinge will remain posted in GMC till April 21, states the order issued by the health department.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/23-test-negative-reports-of-11-covid-suspects-awaited/articleshow/75089288.cms||---
April 11, 2020||Kanpur||Kanpur lab likely to begin testing samples soon||KANPUR: The work of testing samples of Covid-19 suspects is likely to commence from Sunday in the city’s first lab which is almost ready in the microbiology department of Ganesh Shankar Vidyarthi memorial medical college (GSVM). Principal of GSVM medical college Dr Aarti Lalchandani said the lab has a testing capacity of around 100 samples per day. Briefing divisional commissioner Sudhir M Bobde, who had come to inspect the lab on Friday, Dr Lalchandani stated that the new lab would help test samples of Covid-19 suspects in the city itself. So far the samples were being sent to KGMU and SGPGI in Lucknow. The lab has been set up in the maternity wing of Covid-19 hospital, she said. “The samples will be tested as per the guidelines issued by the health department authorities. The 100-bedded hospital is equipped with 20 ventilators, and the order for 40 more ventilators has already been placed”, said Dr Aarti Lalchandani. The Covid-19 hospital has been leveled as Corona-2 stage hospital, she added. The entire staff, including doctors, nurses and paramedics is fully trained and equipped with protective gears, she said and added that directions had already been issued to cover the staff under insurance cover as per the state government’s guidelines. The divisional commissioner thereafter visited Rama Medical University in Mandhana which has also been levelled as phase-2 hospital. “It has 22 ICU beds and is equipped with ventilators. It also has 160 beds to quarantine suspects”, said P Lal, director of the medical university. Later, district magistrate, Brahmadeo Ram Tiwari, SSP/DIG Anant Deo and chief medical officer Dr Ashok Shukla inspected Rama hospital and Rama Ayurvedic hospital. The DM told the director of Rama Hospital to provide PPE kits to the entire staff during the training period. Meanwhile, the district administration has pressed LED vans to fight Covid-19. The LED vans are roaming in the city displaying orders of the government and the district administration.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kanpur/city-lab-likely-to-begin-testing-samples-soon/articleshow/75089138.cms||---
April 11, 2020||Vijayawada||In a relief, Telangana & Andhra Pradesh record fewer positive cases||HYDERABAD/VIJAYAWADA: Authorities in Telangana and Andhra Pradesh heaved a sigh of relief on with fewer coronavirus cases reported on Friday and most patients responding to treatment in quarantine facilities. While Telangana reported 16 new cases of Covid-19, taking the overall count to 487, Andhra Pradesh had a similar report card with 18 new positive cases, the coronavirus tally rose to 381 in the state. Health authorities said that there are 430 positive cases being treated at the Gandhi hospital now. So far, 12 persons have died from the coronavirus. The number of hot zones under their scanner of authorities stands at 101 across the state, with Hyderabad continuing to have the maximum number of positive cases, followed by Nizamabad at 49, Rangareddy 27, Warangal Urban with 23 cases and Medchal with 21 cases. With the temple town of Vemulawada reporting its first case of Covid-19, the Rajannna Sircilla district administration swung into action on Friday and declared the entire area a red zone. Hyderabad reported five fresh cases of Covid-19 on Friday with all of them turning out to be the first contact of Tablighi Jamaat meet returnees from Delhi. “We are so relieved that the cases have dropped with fewer cases reported in the last few days. We are keeping our fingers crossed that it doesn’t go up at all,” said a senior health department official, monitoring the trends. AP on the other hand, has so far reported six deaths, and 10 people have been discharged after they recovered from Covid-19. Of the 18 new Covid-19 positive cases registered on Friday, Guntur district reported 7, East Godavari 5 and Kurnool, Anantapur and Prakasam districts 2 each. As of Friday, 365 Covid-19 cases are undergoing treatment at various hospitals in the state. Kurnool district tops the list with 77 positive cases in Andhra Pradesh followed by Guntur with 58 cases, Nellore with 48 cases, Prakasam 40, Krishna 35, Kadapa 29, West Godavari 22, Chittoor 20, Vizag 20, East Godavari district 17 and Anantapur district with 15 cases. Vizianagaram and Srikakulam districts remained safe districts a so far, no single positive Covid-19 case was reported from there. With the number of positive Covid-19 cases on the rise, health officials identified 133 containment clusters across the state. In the 133 clusters in the state, movement of people is being monitored and barricades have been erected. Sanitary officials have been spraying disinfectants in these clusters. Health workers are visiting every household to identify people with Covid-19 symptoms. The residents within the containment zone aren’t allowed to step out and most of the essential are delivered to their respective doorsteps by volunteers.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/in-a-relief-t-ap-record-fewer-ve-cases/articleshow/75089955.cms||---
April 11, 2020||Kolkata||Locals honour Fab Four who keep neighbourhood clean in Kolkata||KOLKATA: The 21-day lockdown notwithstanding, four conservancy workers in Ganguly Bagan have not missed out on a single day’s work. Attending to nearly 5,000 households every day, they have been collecting waste from every home, regardless of the risk it might pose. Overwhelmed by their dedication, residents of the area were felicitated the four and gave them a standing ovation for their service during the lockdown, thanks to which they can boast of a “clean” neighbourhood. On Thursday, as the four—Mahendra Rabidas, Santu Das, Bahadur and Upendra—reached the locality, residents of the area came out with garlands to felicitate them. Elderly women also blessed them with “dhaan-durba” and prayed for their long lives. Later, the residents handed out masks, sanitisers, money and food packets to them. “Doctors are fighting it out at the frontline. But these men are no less than. Putting their lives at risk, they ensure our homes do not stink. We had to honour them for their selfless service,” said Parimal Dey, a resident of 4 No Vidyasagar Colony. Times ViewAsmall percentage of the city’s workforce has kept on working even during the lockdown, which has ensured that life has gone on despite the inconveniences. Such gestures are important and become more so in times of crisisFor the past fortnight, Rabidas (38) has been leaving home early in the morning and cycling for 40 minutes to reach Ganguly Bagan. He parks his cycle near a house and sets off with his garbage cart. Not for a day have residents of Number 4, Vidyasagar Colony at Ganguly Bagan missed his morning whistle, calling out to people to dump the waste in the cart. “I could not say no to the call of duty. People are now staying home and the volume of waste has gone up. But, I am trying to ensure that each house is served every day,” said Rabidas. Like him, Santu, Bahadur and Upendra also cycle to work every day. “One of them comes from Jodhpur Park and another from Bansdroni. We have to leave home early to reach on time,” Rabidas said. “We realized how important their contribution is to society and felt they should get their due. People who don’t even know these four by their names came out on the street and applauded for them,” said Naresh Mandal, another resident. “There cannot be a better way to show our respect to people who work to keep the city clean. We plan to do something similar in our neighbourhood too,” said Kasba resident Dilip Singh, who was at the locality on some work.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/locals-honour-fab-four-who-keep-neighbourhood-clean/articleshow/75088667.cms||Rohit Khanna
April 11, 2020||Hubballi||GP gets 15,000 masks stitched for villagers||Davanagere: The members of Kadlebalu gram panchayat in Davanagere district have contributed Rs 65,000 to prepare 15,000 masks with the help of self-help groups. These masks were distributed among villagers in the gram panchayat. GP president B K Parashuram said, “We observed that there is an acute shortage of masks in the market. Due to sudden increase in the price of masks, they were not affordable for poor villagers. Hence, we decided to get them stitched and distribute them.” A team of ASHA workers, panchayat staff, a PDO and volunteers distributed the masks in 10 villages. Parashuram said they also created awareness on the ways to prevent the spread of Covid-19 during a door-to-door campaign.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hubballi/gp-gets-15000-masks-stitched-for-villagers/articleshow/75080732.cms||---
April 11, 2020||Hyderabad||In a relief, Telangana & Andhra Pradesh record fewer positive cases||HYDERABAD/VIJAYAWADA: Authorities in Telangana and Andhra Pradesh heaved a sigh of relief on with fewer coronavirus cases reported on Friday and most patients responding to treatment in quarantine facilities. While Telangana reported 16 new cases of Covid-19, taking the overall count to 487, Andhra Pradesh had a similar report card with 18 new positive cases, the coronavirus tally rose to 381 in the state. Health authorities said that there are 430 positive cases being treated at the Gandhi hospital now. So far, 12 persons have died from the coronavirus. The number of hot zones under their scanner of authorities stands at 101 across the state, with Hyderabad continuing to have the maximum number of positive cases, followed by Nizamabad at 49, Rangareddy 27, Warangal Urban with 23 cases and Medchal with 21 cases. With the temple town of Vemulawada reporting its first case of Covid-19, the Rajannna Sircilla district administration swung into action on Friday and declared the entire area a red zone. Hyderabad reported five fresh cases of Covid-19 on Friday with all of them turning out to be the first contact of Tablighi Jamaat meet returnees from Delhi. “We are so relieved that the cases have dropped with fewer cases reported in the last few days. We are keeping our fingers crossed that it doesn’t go up at all,” said a senior health department official, monitoring the trends. AP on the other hand, has so far reported six deaths, and 10 people have been discharged after they recovered from Covid-19. Of the 18 new Covid-19 positive cases registered on Friday, Guntur district reported 7, East Godavari 5 and Kurnool, Anantapur and Prakasam districts 2 each. As of Friday, 365 Covid-19 cases are undergoing treatment at various hospitals in the state. Kurnool district tops the list with 77 positive cases in Andhra Pradesh followed by Guntur with 58 cases, Nellore with 48 cases, Prakasam 40, Krishna 35, Kadapa 29, West Godavari 22, Chittoor 20, Vizag 20, East Godavari district 17 and Anantapur district with 15 cases. Vizianagaram and Srikakulam districts remained safe districts a so far, no single positive Covid-19 case was reported from there. With the number of positive Covid-19 cases on the rise, health officials identified 133 containment clusters across the state. In the 133 clusters in the state, movement of people is being monitored and barricades have been erected. Sanitary officials have been spraying disinfectants in these clusters. Health workers are visiting every household to identify people with Covid-19 symptoms. The residents within the containment zone aren’t allowed to step out and most of the essential are delivered to their respective doorsteps by volunteers.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/in-a-relief-t-ap-record-fewer-ve-cases/articleshow/75088673.cms||---
April 11, 2020||Ahmedabad||Meeting today to decide on further trading at APMC||Ahmedabad: The Ahmedabad Agriculture Produce Market Committee (APMC) and the commission agents will meet on Saturday to decide on closing the trading of vegetables even at the Jetalsar market. The Ahmedabad Vegetable General Commission agent board held a meeting and decided to stop trading from April 12. Deepak Patel, secretary of the APMC, said that the commission agents have given a letter to the APMC for closing the trading. “But we have called them for a meeting on Saturday to take a call. He said the trading will continue till a final decision is taken. Ishtaq Qureshi, vice-president of the Ahmedabad Vegetable General Commission Agent Board, said, “At a given time, there are more than 5,000 people in the market and there is no social distancing which has been observed by the members or even those coming for purchases. The police and the officials then come and harass the agents and even force people to get out of the market. Hence, the board decided to close the market for a week, but the government has called the members for talks after which a final decision will be taken.” The AMC had recently closed the Jamalpur, Kalupur and several other markets in the city after the corporation officials found that social distancing was not being followed there. The officials said that the traders are also afraid that if someone positive with coronavirus enters the market, it would affect a large number of people.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/meeting-today-to-decide-on-further-trading-at-apmc/articleshow/75088758.cms||---
April 11, 2020||Delhi||Delhi count crosses 1,000, 3 new containment zones||New Delhi: The number of Covid-19 containment zones in Delhi rose to 33 on Saturday with the government sealing three more areas. A-30 in Mansarovar Garden, Gali No.1 to 10 under C-Block of Jahangipuri, and areas near H.No. 176 in Deoli Extension were declared as containment zones after novel coronavirus cases were found in these localities. According to unconfirmed reports, some areas under Shaheen Bagh have also been sealed. Meanwhile, on Saturday, Delhi’s Covid-19 count crossed 1,000 mark. It has the maximum number of cases (1,069) in the country now, followed by Maharashtra. The containment areas have been sealed to ensure that those staying inside do not move out and outsiders are not allowed inside the localities. The screening and testing of persons living within these zones are going on. TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/delhi-count-crosses-1000-3-new-containment-zones/articleshow/75102112.cms||---
April 11, 2020||Goa||Deputy CM seeks payout for ryots on ‘case-by-case basis’||MARGAO: Acknowledging that farmers engaged in paddy cultivation in the state will be adversely affected owing to the lockdown, deputy chief minister Chandrakant Kavalekar on Thursday sought compensation to the farmers on a “case-by-case basis”. At a video conference of all agriculture ministers chaired by Union agriculture minister Narendra Singh Tomar, Kavalekar put forth the difficulties faced by paddy farmers cultivating the rabi crop in the state. “Paddy in some places of the state is ready for harvesting. But we cannot deploy the combined harvesters as the workers trained to operate these machines are all from neighbouring states and due to the lockdown, getting them to Goa is an issue,” Kavalekar said. TOI had earlier reported that while the crop has matured in most places and reached the harvesting stage, the harvester machines may not be available to them for want of trained technicians. Kavalekar said, “As asking for relaxation for farmers is not an option considering the gravity of the pandemic, the central government must be ready to compensate farmers on a case to case basis.” Apart from paddy cultivation, Kavalekar apprised union agriculture minister that floriculture in the state would also be greatly affected owing to the lockdown. “Flowers like Gerbera, which locals grow in their polyhouses, are mostly exported, which is not possible now. We are still assessing their losses,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/dy-cm-seeks-payout-for-ryots-on-case-by-case-basis/articleshow/75089439.cms||---
April 11, 2020||Bhopal||With 43 new +ve patients, MP count now 458||Bhopal: With 43 new positive cases — 24 in Bhopal, 14 in Indore, 2 in Vidisha, 1 each in Ujjain, Sheopur and Sagar — the total number of Covid-19 patients in state reached 458 on Friday. Three deaths were reported in Indore, taking the corona toll to 36 in Madhya Pradesh.  Of the 119 active patients who have been tested positive in Bhopal, around 70 are employees of the health department, 20 are those who had visited a religious congregations, around a dozen are cops. Among Friday’s cases is a 36-year-old pregnant woman who was tested positive in Sheopur district. “She is the daughter-in-law of the first Covid-19 patient of the district. In addition, we have traced around 30 people who had come into contact with the first positive patient and their samples were sent for testing, all other 29 samples tested negative” Sheopur collector, Pratibha Pal told TOI. In Jabalpur no new patient was tested positive and one more patient has recovered and is likely to be discharged on Saturday. As many as 9 positive patients have been found in Jabalpur of those four have already recovered, said sources. Overall in state, 90 localities of state capital Bhopal, 82 localities of Indore, 7 each of Jabalpur and Ujjain, 5 each of Chhindwara and Khargone, 4 each of Gwalior, Barwani and Raisen, 3 each of Hoshangabad and Dewas, 2 each of Shivpuri, Vidisha and Khandwa and 1 each of Morena, Sheopur, Betul and Dhar districts have been declared as containment zones. State government had ordered that wearing masks is mandatory for each and every citizen while stepping out of their house and visiting any public place. Apart from it, government also ordered that without investigation and verification from the authorised person, no information related to Covid-19 can be shared on social, electronic and print media.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/with-43-new-ve-patients-mp-count-now-458/articleshow/75088668.cms||---
April 11, 2020||Lucknow||Fire triggered by lit cigarette, not short-circuit||Lucknow: The Wednesday night fire at KGMU Trauma Centre may have been sparked off by a lit cigarette tossed on the waste pile at the second floor or intentionally triggered by a mischief maker, reveals the preliminary probe by fire safety department and university officials on Friday. An FIR was lodged at Chowk police station against unidentified people by KGMU proctor. Fire safety officials had earlier said, prima facie, short circuit was the trigger, but closer examination on Thursday and Friday unravelled a different theory. “Earlier, the area was blackened by smoke and soot and the fire seemed to have been caused by short circuit. But inch-by-inch examination revealed all electricity wires were intact, indicating that the source was something else like a burning cigarette butt. Samples have been sent for forensic examination to find out the nature and cause of fire,” said chief fire officer, Lucknow, Vijay Kumar Singh. “We also found some liquor bottles at the spot,” he said. Late Wednesday, a waste pile of dressing material and wood near a lift went up in flames triggering panic and evacuation of patients. Similar were findings of the KGMU probe committee headed by chief proctor Prof RAS Kushwaha. Since there was no damage to wires at the site, the fire could have been either caused by a cigarette butt or somebody intentionally set the waste afire, said Prof Kushwaha. On Thursday, KGMU had sent executive engineer (electrical) Akhilesh Kumar Singh to his parent cadre and suspended assistant engineer (maintenance) Umesh Chandra Yadav on charges of negligence as fire safety measures like sprinklers and alarm were not functioning at the time of fire.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/fire-triggered-by-lit-cigarette-not-short-circuit/articleshow/75089291.cms||---
April 11, 2020||Goa||As Goa moves to work from home, dodgy internet puts the brakes on efficiency||PANAJI: More and more employees across the state who have been asked to work from home have come to realise that things are not as breezy as they thought. Unreliable internet connectivity, slow data speeds and sometimes outdated hardware is taking a toll on productivity, and many private sector employees find they need to put in more time and effort to accomplish tasks. Many employees find that due to unreliable internet connectivity, dropped video calls and heavy buffering remains a common occurrence as they try to coordinate with team members and attend daily briefings. The 21-day lockdown imposed by the government has shut down most industrial units but most service sector firms continue to operate by asking their employees to work remotely. “When I want to go online to send emails and updates to the team, I have to go the balcony as that is the only place where the dongle manages to get network,” said Lalan Karapurkar, an addictions researcher. The sudden nationwide lockdown gave many employees little to no time to prepare for work from home arrangements and employees were forced to utilise whatever setup they had at home. Numerous requests for new connectionsSince the lockdown was imposed on March 22, Internet Service Providers (ISP) have received a lot of requests for new broadband connections. “The biggest challenge when you are working from home is internet connectivity. We are making people work from home so last mile connectivity is important. Your communication doubles so there is a drop in efficiency,” said Prajyot Mainkar, founder and chief executive officer of Androcid, an IT company. Software and hardware challenges are another headache that employees working from home have to resolve on their own. Without an IT department to troubleshoot glitches, employees end up spending a lot of time on the phone talking to technicians. “I have had a lot of people reaching out with mobile breakage and laptops not working,” said Mainkar. An architect residing in Bicholim found himself confined to home with no opportunity to pick up his laptop from Porvorim where he works. “My desktop is old and cannot connect to the wifi, so all my work is stuck,” he said. He chose not to divulge his name.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/as-goa-moves-to-work-from-home-dodgy-internet-puts-the-brakes-on-efficiency/articleshow/75089285.cms||Newton Sequeira
April 11, 2020||Ranchi||Sonia speaks to state’s Congress ministers||RANCHI: Congress party’s national working president Sonia Gandhi on Friday took stock of the measures being taken by the party’s state unit and its ministers in the mahagathbandhan government in the fight against novel coronavirus. Gandhi spoke to state Congress president Rameshwar Oraon and party ministers Alamgir Alam (rural affairs), Badal Patralekh (agriculture) and Banna Gupta (health) via videoconference on Friday evening. The meeting continued for 30 minutes. Oraon and his cabinet colleagues joined from the party’s state headquarters. Gandhi took stock of the measures being taken to feed the poor and needy through community kitchens, the availability of food grain in godowns and its distribution through PDS shops, the status of Jharkhand’s workers stuck in other states. Oraon also briefed Gandhi about the number of positive cases in Jharkhand, the hotspots and measures being taken by the government to implement social distancing. Earlier in the day, AICC’s Jharkhand in-charge RPN Singh spoke to state Congress unit and sought to know the measures being taken by the party’s state unit in providing relief to the people in the cities and in hamlets. Oraon, however, informed Gandhi that Jharkhand government is not getting its desirable support from the Centre. “She was also apprised about the state’s pending share of GST revenues from the Union government,” state Congress spokesperson Alok Dubey said. Badal writes to CM Agriculture minister Badal on Thursday wrote to Soren expressing concern about the state of stray cattle living in the state’s urban limits. In his letter, Badal said, “The stray cattle living in urban limits are in a pitiable condition. Usually surviving on food given by residents, they are starving.” Badal suggested that government can instruct ULBs to feed the cattle till the time the lockdown is in effect.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/sonia-speaks-to-states-cong-ministers/articleshow/75088100.cms||Dhritiman Ray
April 11, 2020||Ahmedabad||Covid-19: Gandhinagar has highest mortality rate in Gujarat||AHMEDABAD: On Friday night, the state health department shared an analysis claiming that per 10 lakh (one million) population mortality of the state is 0.27 and the state is fifth in India in mortality rate after 0.85 of Maharashtra, 0.63 in Delhi, 0.32 in Jammu & Kashmir and 0.29 in Punjab. The figures were for April 10 morning and did not take into account two more deaths on Friday. In absolute numbers, Gujarat ranked second only to Maharashtra in India on Friday morning. Likewise, analysis of 19 deaths showed that Gandhinagar with 3.45 deaths per million population topped the chart. Ahmedabad so far has 0.97 deaths per million, followed by Bhavnagar (0.84), Patan (0.75), Surat (0.66), Vadodara (0.65), Panchmhal (0.61) and Jamnagar (0.46).||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/gandhinagar-has-highest-mortality-rate-in-the-state/articleshow/75088755.cms||---
April 11, 2020||Vadodara||Covid-19: Gandhinagar has highest mortality rate in Gujarat||AHMEDABAD: On Friday night, the state health department shared an analysis claiming that per 10 lakh (one million) population mortality of the state is 0.27 and the state is fifth in India in mortality rate after 0.85 of Maharashtra, 0.63 in Delhi, 0.32 in Jammu & Kashmir and 0.29 in Punjab. The figures were for April 10 morning and did not take into account two more deaths on Friday. In absolute numbers, Gujarat ranked second only to Maharashtra in India on Friday morning. Likewise, analysis of 19 deaths showed that Gandhinagar with 3.45 deaths per million population topped the chart. Ahmedabad so far has 0.97 deaths per million, followed by Bhavnagar (0.84), Patan (0.75), Surat (0.66), Vadodara (0.65), Panchmhal (0.61) and Jamnagar (0.46).||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/gandhinagar-has-highest-mortality-rate-in-the-state/articleshow/75090028.cms||---
April 11, 2020||Goa||Goa: Shortage of HCQ in pharmacies, health department says it got stock||PANAJI: Many pharmacists and distributors in the state have said that inessential purchases of hydroxychloroquine (HCQ) by hospitals, retailers and even members of the general public have wiped out their stocks of the drug. However, a senior health department official said the directorate of health services (DHS) has sufficient quantities of it. While HCQ is used to treat malaria, lupus erythematosus and rheumatoid arthritis, the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) said last month that it was to be administered as a preventive medicine only to asymptomatic healthcare workers treating suspected or confirmed Covid-19 patients. Members of the general public were not included in this ambit. A major distributor in North Goa said the state had bought in sufficient stocks of HCQ, but many hospitals, retailers and even the common man began hoarding it. This continued until the department of food and drugs administration (FDA) sought details of its sales from pharmacies. “Many retailers and doctors came with requests for HCQ despite it being recommended only for frontline health workers. Today, hardly any stockist has it,” the distributor said. With HCQ enlisted as a schedule H1 drug late last month, its supply must now be recorded in a separate register. The details must also include the name and address of the prescriber, the name of the patient and the quantity of the drug supplied. Confirming that HCQ is now in short supply in the state, Dr S Samuel Arawattigi, president of the Indian Medical Association (IMA), Goa, said, “At least five of my patients have been affected due to the non-availability of the drug in pharmacies.” A prominent doctor in South Goa said he made inquiries with several distributors and stockists, but none had it. “If the situation doesn’t improve in the long run, there will be a problem,” he said, attributing the lack of stocks to panic-buying after the lockdown was imposed. The doctor claimed that after the ICMR issued its advisory, even the government resorted to buying HCQ from local stockists. A senior official of the health department also confirmed that stocks of the drug had dried up among distributors, but said the DHS has it in adequate quantities. The official also said although the ICMR has recommended use of HCQ as a preventive drug against Covid-19, it should not be taken without a doctor’s prescription. “It is not advisable to be taken by a person with comorbidities unless all his other parameters are examined,” the official said. Raj Vaidya, chief pharmacist at Hindu Pharmacy, said HCQ would be disbursed to patients only on production of a valid prescription.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/shortage-of-hcq-in-pharmacies-health-dept-says-it-got-stock/articleshow/75089293.cms||Bindiya Chari
April 11, 2020||Goa||As austerity measure, cut cabinet size to three members: MGP||PANAJI: Maharashtrawadi Gomantak Party (MGP) on Friday asked chief minister Pramod Sawant to prune the strength of his cabinet to three members and reduce the financial burden on the state in view of the Covid-19 outbreak. Speaking to mediapersons, senior MGP leader Ramkrishna Dhavalikar said that Prime Minister Narendra Modi had announced that no infrastructure development works would be taken up. “Sawant should rethink the 12-member cabinet at this juncture as there is no work. He should take a decision on the 3-member cabinet,” Dhavalikar said. He said that once the CM chooses his three members, then he can think about the staff and expenses of the rest of the ministers. He also said that Sawant should immediately withdraw the security of MLAs. Dhavalikar said that staff given to MLAs after being appointed as chairmen of various corporations should also be reduced to minimum. “Sawant should seize the charges of chairmen, directors and others and allow the same to be handled by secretary-level staff,” he said. Dhavalikar also demanded the resignation of BJP state president Sadanand Shet Tanavade as chairman of Economic Development Corporation (EDC). Dhavalikar said that it is for the first time in the history of BJP, that its state president is holding another position. “If these austerity measures are taken, people will trust the government and donate money to fight Covid-19 pandemic,” Dhavalikar said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/as-austerity-measure-cut-cabinet-size-to-3-members-mgp/articleshow/75089442.cms||---
April 11, 2020||Madurai||Woman dead, 11 new cases in south TN||Madurai: The death of a 72-year-old woman from Tuticorin on Friday is the first Covid-19 related death in the district where 24 people have so far tested positive. This is the third death of a Covid-19 patient in southern Tamil Nadu. Her death has taken the death toll in the state to nine. Speaking to reporters in Tuticorin on Friday, district collector Sandeep Nanduri said that the woman from Boldenpuram in Tuticorin was admitted to the Tuticorin Government Hospital after she tested positive. She had been stable till Thursady, but she was put on ventilator support after she developed respiratory problems and died on Friday evening. Both her son and daughter-in-law who had been in contact with a person who had gone to an event in New Delhi had also tested positive and were under treatment in the hospital. Their condition was stable. The two new cases that were reported on Friday, were a 36-year-old woman and her 10-year-old son. All the five member of the family have tested positive for Covid-19. They were tenants who were living on the first floor of the house of the woman who died on Friday. As many as 79 high risk contacts and 344 low risk contacts who had been in contact with the 22 positive cases had been quarantined in their homes and were being monitored continuously. The collector said that there were 1,723 people in quarantine in the district. The collector said that there were seven containment zones in Tuticorin with 5,200 houses under monitoring. All the containment zones had been barricaded and movement in and out of the area has been restricted. All measures were being taken to provide assistance to the people in the containment zones with the help of volunteers and NGOs. He said that the district had sufficient ventilators and that the testing facility at the Tuticorin government hospital was expected to start functioning soon, with the installation process underway. Meanwhile, 11 new cases were reported in the southern districts on Friday bringing the total to 236. Dindigul district reported eight new cases on Friday including five females and three males, all contacts of persons who had participated in a single source event in Delhi, taking the total number of cases in Dindigul to 54. Kanyakumari reported one new case. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/woman-dead-11-new-cases-in-south-tn/articleshow/75089290.cms||---
April 11, 2020||Jaipur||98 new infections in state, 53in city alone; total up to 561||Jaipur: Ninety-eight people tested positive for Covid-19 on Friday in the state, including 53 in Jaipur’s Ramganj locality. With the highest number of positive cases reported so far in a day, the total number of corona patients in the state rose to 561. In Jaipur, the number of Covid-19 cases surged to 221. Intensive door-to-door survey was condcted in various parts of Jaipur, including Mohalla Neelgaran and Ramganj. According to health department officials, eight out of the 98 who tested positive are evacuees from Iran. “So far, we have tested 22,349 samples, of which 20,698 were found to be negative. Results of 1,090 samples are awaited,” said Rohit Kumar Singh, additional chief secretary, medical and health, to TOI. Of the total, 53 cases were reported from Ramganj, 12 from Banswara, nine from Jodhpur, eight from Jaisalmer, three from Jhalawar, two from Kota, and one each from Bharatpur and Dausa. Around 180 persons have tested positive from Ramganj locality alone in Jaipur till date.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/98-new-infections-in-state-53in-city-alone-total-up-to-561/articleshow/75089306.cms||Ashish Mehta
April 11, 2020||Ahmedabad||Successful testing conducted at SVP||Ahmedabad: With the SVP Hospital at Ellisbridge getting permission to conduct Covid-19 tests, results will be declared within 8 to 10 hours without requiring the patient to stay overnight for test results. Municipal health officials will be able to conduct 150 tests every day. Within hours of getting permissions for conducting Covid-19 tests, the AMC had obtained primers and reagents from BJ Medical College and conducted 28 tests, consisting of positive and negative cases, all of which were sent to National Institute of Virology for opinion. “All our tests were validated and we can begin conducting tests immediately. Our team of microbiologists did the trial runs; obtained reagents, kits, probes and primers and conducted the positive and negative control tests within few hours. We are capable of testing 150 Covid patients a day,” said municipal commissioner Vijay Nehra.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/successful-testing-conducted-at-svp/articleshow/75088757.cms||---
April 11, 2020||Thiruvananthapuram||Lockdown rules relaxed for more sectors||Thiruvananthapuram: The state government has granted restricted permission to electrical appliances shops for functioning during the lockdown. As per a government order, shops selling air conditioning units and fans can function from 10am to 5pm on Sundays. They are supposed to function with limited number of staffs, not more than three people.Similarly, permission has been granted to optical shops to function from 10am to 5pm on all Mondays with maximum two staff. Permissions have been also given to traditional potters to source clay for their work. Following the state government’s request, Centre has given permission to the state to grant restrictive relaxations to the functioning of rubber plantations. Consequent to this, functioning of factories involved in processing and production of rubber/surgical gloves can function with 25% of their total strength. These factories can transport latex barrels from plantations to factories and back so that such units are assured of required supply of latex. They are also allowed to bring in required numbers of such barrels along with ammonia and other preservatives which are required for such transportation of field latex to factories.“Permission has been also granted to the rubber plantations to operate, for above mentioned purposes with maximum 25% of staff strength during the lockdown period,” the government order said. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/thiruvananthapuram/lockdown-rules-relaxed-for-more-sectors/articleshow/75087119.cms||---
April 11, 2020||Madurai||NGO urges govt to issue 2-way passes during lockdown||Madurai: Citing difficulties in getting return passes during the lockdown, a consumer rights NGO has written to the chief minister to issue directions to the district administrations to issue two-way passes, so that people who travel for emergencies can return to their destinations without any difficulty. Empower, the NGO, has stated that it had come across three instances where people who travelled from Chennai to Tuticorin and Tenkasi are finding it difficult to return. Sankar from the organisation stated that a couple who travelled to Tenkasi is stuck there while their children are in Chennai. “We tried reaching the Tuticorin district administration but an official said that passes can be given only for travel in case of emergencies such as wedding, death or medical emergencies and not for return travel. So, we request the government to make arrangement for issuance of two-way passes,” Sankar said.Meanwhile, for the family of S Kannan, 65, of Madurai who had gone to Coimbatore for a medical emergency before the lockdown, it was a smooth ride after the lockdown was enforced as they got a pass for their return journey to Madurai. The taxi, which they had hired to Madurai also managed to return to Coimbatore the same day without the need for another pass.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/ngo-urges-govt-to-issue-2-way-passes-during-lockdown/articleshow/75089295.cms||---
April 11, 2020||Surat||Covid-19: Gandhinagar has highest mortality rate in Gujarat||AHMEDABAD: On Friday night, the state health department shared an analysis claiming that per 10 lakh (one million) population mortality of the state is 0.27 and the state is fifth in India in mortality rate after 0.85 of Maharashtra, 0.63 in Delhi, 0.32 in Jammu & Kashmir and 0.29 in Punjab. The figures were for April 10 morning and did not take into account two more deaths on Friday. In absolute numbers, Gujarat ranked second only to Maharashtra in India on Friday morning. Likewise, analysis of 19 deaths showed that Gandhinagar with 3.45 deaths per million population topped the chart. Ahmedabad so far has 0.97 deaths per million, followed by Bhavnagar (0.84), Patan (0.75), Surat (0.66), Vadodara (0.65), Panchmhal (0.61) and Jamnagar (0.46).||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/gandhinagar-has-highest-mortality-rate-in-the-state/articleshow/75090030.cms||---
April 11, 2020||Hyderabad||Two held for producing fake sanitiser in Hyderabad||HYDERABAD: South zone task force along with the local police on Thursday arrested two persons, who were allegedly manufacturing duplicate hand sanitisers and supplying them to the medical shops at Roop Lal Bazar, Shalibanda. Police seized 580 bottles, worth Rs 90,000 from their possession. The accused were Omer Farooq from Sastri Puram and Mohammed Abdul Quddus from Roop Lal Bazar. With sanitisers becoming the most sought after product due to the coronavirus outbreak, the accused manufactured them by mixing petroleum gel with rose water and labelled it as Germ X Hand sanitiser. They did not have license or follow the standards. TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/two-held-for-producing-fake-sanitiser/articleshow/75088678.cms||---
April 11, 2020||Hyderabad||Telangana district DSP sent back, recalled after second test comes positive||HYDERABAD: A DSP from Bhadradri Kothagudem district in Telangana, who had tested negative for coronavirus on Thursday, was called back by the government-run Chest Hospital authorities in Hyderabad after a second test tested positive. A case was booked against the the 55-year-old police official on March 23 for defying the home quarantine rules after he went out along his London-returned son, who had also tested positive for coronovirus. According to top authorities, the DSP was called back on Thursday night after he was discharged earlier in the day. “We got his report as negative in the afternoon and discharged him. When the second test reports came as positive, we called him back and admitted him,” officials said. However, they were not forthcoming as to how the two reports had different results. But, they refuted reports that the DSP was discharged due confusion that another patient had the same name as him. The DSP had gone back to his residence in Kothagudem after he was discharged. TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/dsp-sent-back-recalled-after-second-test-comes-positive/articleshow/75088679.cms||---
April 11, 2020||Goa||318 held in South Goa for violating lockdown rules||MARGAO: Since the lockdown kicked in and until April 9, the South Goa police have booked 164 cases and netted an amount of nearly Rs 14 lakh in fines. They have arrested 318 people for violating the prohibitory orders and seized 155 vehicles during the period. Margao sub-division consisting of Margao town, Maina Curtorim, Colva and Cuncolim police stations, topped the list with 82 cases booked during the lockdown period with 115 arrests.  In all, 53 vehicles were seized and Rs 4.5 lakh collected from fines at all the four police stations coming under the Margao sub-division. Altogether 38 cases were booked by all four police stations coming under the jurisdiction of Quepem sub-division consisting of Quepem, Curchorem, Sanguem and Canacona police stations. The Quepem sub-division has also been busy. So far, officers there have arrested 79 people and seized 34 vehicles. Rupee two lakh was collected by means of fines by the Quepem sub-division. At the Vasco sub-division consisting of Vasco, Verna, Mormugao, Vasco Railway and Dabolim airport police stations, altogether 29 cased were booked and 101 people arrested. All five police stations went the extra mile to ensure rues were followed. They seized 62 vehicles and collected fines aggregating Rs 5.2 lakh. At the Ponda and Collem police stations , 15 cases were booked and 23 people were arrested, six vehicles seized and Rs 1.6 lakh collected through fines, data obtained from the South Goa police headquarters reveals.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/318-held-in-south-goa-for-violating-lockdown-rules/articleshow/75089305.cms||---
April 11, 2020||Bhopal||Madhya Pradesh govt goes all out to protect its health officials||BHOPAL: Till now, in 83% cases where suspects tested positive for COVID-19 in MP, the contacts have not been traced. “Particulars are not available in 83% cases, contact transmission has been established in 15% cases, whereas 2% had a travel history,” stated a report prepared by Atal Bihari Vajpayee Institute of Good Governance and Policy Analysis for MP health department. Personal Protective Equipment (PPE) is the protective gear designed to safeguard the health of workers by minimizing the exposure in a scenario when the world is battling the COVID-19 pandemic. Experts obviously underline the importance of protective gear in current situation. And the government is not ready to take any chance when it comes to safety of health officials. There are 23,661 PPE kits with the health department. Since the outbreak, 14,884 PPE kits have been used; health department has already set in motion proposal to purchase 1.72 lakh new PPE kits. An N-95 respirator mask is a respiratory protective device with high filtration efficiency to airborne particles. To provide the requisite air seal to the wearer, such masks are designed to achieve a very close facial fit. Current stock of these masks is 84,241. Till now, 36,089 have been used and another 2,11,000 new purchases are being made. State government has 6,00,000 three-layered masks. About 38000 have been used and another million are being ordered.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/mp-govt-goes-all-out-to-protect-health-officials/articleshow/75088680.cms||---
April 11, 2020||Kozhikode||Thalassery taluk a Covid hotspot||Kannur: The Covid-19 scenario in Kannur is gradually coming under control with the number of people under home quarantine coming down drastically and also many people testing negative in the last few days. But the surveillance in the areas under Thalassery taluk has become stringent because majority of the Covid-19 positive cases have been reported from there.As on April 9, of the total 59 positive cases, 48 are from Thalassery taluk, including eight people from one family and their immediate relatives. Besides, two people who tested positive are from Mahe, bordering Thalassery. Incidentally, barring a few primary contacts, most positive cases are returnees from Gulf countries, according to officials.As reported earlier, a majority of infected people in the Malabar region are from Naif region and surrounding areas of Dubai, or those in contact from those places, according to health officials. Before the airports were closed many people from Dubai, especially Naif, had reached here.As part of the stringent surveillance, ‘double lockdown’ was enforced in three municipalities (Thalassery, Panoor and Koothuparamba) and seven panchayats (Chittariparamba, Kottayam Malabar, Kathiroor, Patyam, Mokeri, Chokli and Panniyannur) a few days ago.The highest numbers of cases were reported from Chittariparamba and Kottayam Malabar – eight each. In Patyam, seven positive cases were reported while in Koothuparamba it was five.“We have noted that the main cause of the increased number from this taluk is because there are many people working in Gulf countries. Hence, we have decided to conduct testing for all primary contacts of those who tested positive, to ensure there is no spread,” said Kannur district medical officer K Narayana Nayak. Some people without any symptom had tested positive, prompting the authorities to take this decision. Kannur is the first district in the state to take the decision to subject all primary contacts of high-risk cases for Covid-19 test, said the DMO.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kozhikode/thalassery-taluk-a-covid-hotspot/articleshow/75087129.cms||---
April 11, 2020||Ahmedabad||More testing facilities at Sola Civil sought||Gandhinagar: Gujarat has sought Covid-19 testing facilities at the Sola Civil Hospital. This demand was made at a video conference held on Friday by Union health minister Harsh Vardhan. Dy CM and health minister Nitin Patel, while making his presentation, sought coronavirus testing facilities at Sola Civil Hospital as the number of Covid-19 cases is increasing rapidly in the state. Patel also requested the Centre to provide rapid testing kits as soon as possible. Patel said dedicated hospitals for Covid-19 have been functioning in Ahmedabad, Rajkot, Vadodara and Surat in the state with 2,200 beds facility. Similarly, 25 other government and 31 private hospitals have been reserved for treatment of Covid-19 patients. There are 1,438 ventilators available in government hospitals and 1,700 in private hospitals for critical patients.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/more-testing-facilities-at-sola-civil-sought/articleshow/75088753.cms||---
April 11, 2020||Lucknow||Cong ‘giant killer’ Dwivedi no more||Lucknow: With the passing away of the ailing 'giant killer' Ram Krishna Dwivedi, an old and glorious chapter in the Congress' UP journey has come to an end. Dwivedi, considered to be right hand man of Indira Gandhi, was expelled from the party last year for involving himself in anti-party activities. His expulsion was seen by the rank and file of the party as a bid of young Congress leaders to oust committed cadres from the party. The move was also seen as an 'infiltration' bid by persons having links Rihai Manch and AISA, staging a comeback at the party's centrestage. Dwivedi had hit headlines when in 1971 he as a young Congress leader defeated then chief minister TN Singh in byelections from Maniram assembly constituency in Gorakhpur, turning the tide against Sanyukt Vidhayak Dal comprising anti-Congress parties, including Jan Sangh which later became BJP. The young Dwivedi’s victory at the hustings had come as a great relief for Indira Gandhi. Later, Dwivedi was appointed as home minister in the Kamlapati Tripathi government. Dwivedi, who was seriously ill for three months, breathed his last on Friday morning after fighting a long battle against cancer. Rahul Gandhi, former Congress president, condoled his death by terming “Ram Krishna Dwivedi as a former minister and colleague of Indira Gandhi.” The 'giant killer' who wanted to breath his last as a Congressman was expelled from the party for indulging in anti-party activities by UPCC chief Ajay Kumar Lalloo. Dwivedi had only one wish. He wanted to die a Congressman. Amidst mounting pressure, the UPCC had decided to allow Dwivedi to rejoin the party. But before the news could bring some smile to his face, he got another shocker that the party was revoking its decision only because of his falling health condition. As Dwivedi's expulsion came when Priyanka Vadra was appointed incharge of UP affairs, the general impression was that top leadership was dancing to tunes of 'infiltrators'. The rank and file of the party feels that the top leadership should ensure exit of hardliners from Congress to enthuse it a fresh lease of life in UP||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/cong-giant-killer-dwivedi-no-more/articleshow/75089303.cms||Subhash Mishra
April 11, 2020||Goa||Left in background, Goa civil service officers feel ignored||PANAJI: The state government’s decision to put officers of the Indian Administrative Service (IAS) in the forefront to perform various tasks in view of Covid-19 seems to have received mixed responses from officers of the Goa Civil Service (GCS). While some of them have justified the state’s move — they say responsibility has been divided between IAS and GCS officers — others claim they have been left out of decision-making processes. The state government has constituted the State Executive Committee (SEC) to review measures adopted to deal with Covid-19. The committee is headed by chief secretary Parimal Rai but none of its members are from the GCS. A senior Goan government officer told TOI on condition of anonymity that several Goan officers have ample experience to deal with any kind of situation and know the state administration well. The officer said such personnel should have been taken into confidence in the decision-making process to tackle Covid-19. “We know the situation on the ground and have more contacts than IAS officers do. Our advice would have helped the government implement decisions more effectively,” the officer said. Echoing this view, some other Goan officers rued that they have been tasked with merely executing decisions taken by the government and have not been made part of the decision-making process itself. While chief minister Pramod Sawant has regularly been holding review meetings with IAS and IPS officers, he is believed to have met with officers of the GCS only two times. It was during this time that he tasked them with identifying people who had entered Goa a few days before the lockdown was imposed. However, a few Goan officers declined to comment on the current administrative situation. “We are happy with the tasks given to us by the government. We have been given a responsibility and we are trying to execute it in true spirit,” one of them said. Another senior government officer said the chief minister has divided duties between IAS and GCS officers and they don’t see anything wrong in it. “Our job is to execute the work entrusted to us,” the officer said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/left-in-background-goa-civil-service-officers-feel-ignored/articleshow/75089297.cms||Murari Shetye
April 11, 2020||Goa||‘No scientific backing for CM’s Ayush claims’||PANAJI: A day after chief minister Pramod Sawant claimed that the state government was using allopathy along with ayurveda to treat patients infected by the novel coronavirus, the opposition asked if the scientific community backed the state’s decision. Both opposition leader Digambar Kamat and Goa Forward Party president Vijai Sardesai said that Goa should not conduct experiments on patients using ayurveda until there is scientific evidence to prove that it can be used to treat the infection. “Has the government of India health ministry approved the medicines? Has the ministry of Ayush got approval from the World Health Organisation (WHO) for such treatment?” asked Kamat. Sardesai, a member of the NDA, shared Kamat’s concern. What medical study supports this? What scientific basis does this have? Is some kind of experiment being done on Goans? Does health minister Vishwajit Rane endorse, approve this?” asked Sardesai. “Let us not use Goans as guinea pigs,” said Kamat.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/no-scientific-backing-for-cms-ayush-claims/articleshow/75089443.cms||---
April 11, 2020||Dehradun||Rs 10 lakh relief to kin of ‘Covid-19 ‘warriors’ who lose lives to virus in Uttarakhand||DEHRADUN: Replacing its previous scheme of providing Rs 4 lakh insurance cover to personnel involved in the fight against Covid-19, the Uttarakhand government has announced to give Rs 10 lakh compensation to the next of kin of officials, employees and outsourced staff, if they lost their lives while performing their duties in the fight against Covid-19. Besides, this scheme will also include mediapersons, who have been on he field covering the crisis. The state government has also announced to provide free medical treatment to the ‘Covid-19 warriors’ if they were infected by the disease. The compensation amount as well the expense of treatment would be provided through the Chief Minister Relief Fund. The new decision doesn’t extend to doctors, nurses, technicians, ward boys, outsourced and contract employees who have already been given a Rs 50 lakh insurance cover by the central government. Speaking on the matter, CM Rawat said, “We respect the work and dedication shown by our warriors involved in this mission. Therefore, a decision was taken to replace insurance with assurance and we have announced to give Rs 10 lakh compensation to the next of kin of those officials, employees, outsourced workers and mediapersons, who are putting their life at risk for the state and society.” Urban development minister and state government spokesperspon Madan Kaushik said, “The government decided that it must do more for those warriors who were putting their life at stake. Therefore, a Rs 10 lakh compensation was announced. In addition, we will provide free medical treatment to any personnel involved in the fight, who is infected by coronavirus.” He added that the state government has announced to release Rs 10 crore from CM Relief Fund to state medical education department. “The amount is being released to help the department to increase the bed capacity and arrangements in the state medical colleges. The state government has also reserved a budget of Rs 60 crore for the efforts to fight coronavirus,” he said. Meanwhile, the donations to fight coronavirus continued on Friday with the IAS association providing a donation of Rs 5 lakh. IAS officer Manisha Panwar handed over a Rs 5 lakh cheque to CM Trivendra Singh Rawat. The Food Safety Inspectors’ body also pledged a day’s salary. Food Safety Inspector Ramesh Singh said that if required, their team was willing to contribute more for the purpose.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/rs-10l-relief-to-kin-of-covid-19-warriors-who-lose-lives-to-virus-in-ukhand/articleshow/75088693.cms||Kautilya Singh
April 11, 2020||Nashik||Police barricade more roads in city, citizens grumble about not getting essentials||done. Nashik: As more barricades come up in the city, local residents find it increasingly difficult to get their daily essentials. Since many people are still ignoring the lockdown, the police have decided to erect more barricades to restrict movement. Areas like Nashik Road, Satpur, Ambad and Indiranagar saw more barricading, leading to complaints from citizens who said milkmen and men delivering gas cylinders were unable to get to their houses. Somnath Ahire, a resident of Satpur Colony said, “I learnt that many areas of Satpur have been closed. This is a good move by the police. Grocery shops are found in many lanes yet people want to go from one place to another. Now they complain when those delivering essentials goods make them come to the barricaded point to collect the items.” Police officials said the citizens were to be blamed for the increased security as they continued to ignore repeated appeals from the police through various media. Rakesh Hande, a senior police inspector (PI) at the Satpur police station, said that barricades had gone up in more than 50 places at Shramik Nagar, Satpur Colony, Trimbak Road and other areas. “Over the past two days, we have seized 200 vehicles in the Satpur area. Still that has not deterred people, so we have strengthened the barricading, he said. Suraj Bijali, senior PI at Nashik Road police station said, “Once barricades are up on a particular street, we don't have to worry about the movement of vehicles on that road. The police cannot be everywhere and in this way we can focus our attention on roads that are open. We can ask motorists on such roads why they are out and take action accordingly.” Citizens need to exercise self-discipline so that the spread of Covid-19 is mitigated and the lockdown period is kept to a minimum, the police said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/police-barricade-more-roads-in-city-citizens-grumble-about-not-getting-essentials/articleshow/75088115.cms||Santosh Sonawane
April 11, 2020||Jaipur||98 new infections in Rajasthan, 53 in Jaipur alone; total up to 561||JAIPUR: Ninety-eight people tested positive for Covid-19 on Friday in the state, including 53 in Jaipur’s Ramganj locality. With the highest number of positive cases reported so far in a day, the total number of corona patients in the state rose to 561. In Jaipur, the number of Covid-19 cases surged to 221. Intensive door-to-door survey was condcted in various parts of Jaipur, including Mohalla Neelgaran and Ramganj. According to health department officials, eight out of the 98 who tested positive are evacuees from Iran. “So far, we have tested 22,349 samples, of which 20,698 were found to be negative. Results of 1,090 samples are awaited,” said Rohit Kumar Singh, additional chief secretary, medical and health, to TOI. Of the total, 53 cases were reported from Ramganj, 12 from Banswara, nine from Jodhpur, eight from Jaisalmer, three from Jhalawar, two from Kota, and one each from Bharatpur and Dausa. Around 180 persons have tested positive from Ramganj locality alone in Jaipur till date.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/98-new-infections-in-state-53in-city-alone-total-up-to-561/articleshow/75089307.cms||Ashish Mehta
April 11, 2020||Hyderabad||Power bill move a shocker for Telangana citizens||HYDERABAD: People, who had moved into rented houses in the last few months, and those currently out of their homes due to lockdown or other reasons have been adversely affected by the state’s decision to consider the power consumption of March 2019 while issuing this month’s bill. Despite not staying in the city for a long time, many have received a bill, which is way higher than the minimum amount or their regular bill. Same is the case with people in rental accommodation, as they are forced to pay this month’s bill based on the energy consumption of previous occupants. “The decision made by the state with respect to electricity bills is not fair. My flat has been vacant for the past 45 days, but my bill for this month is Rs 2,943,” said Sankara K, a resident of Sainikpuri. Many took to Twitter to complain on the issue. “I have got a current bill of Rs 1,500 for this month. Is this based on previous years’ March bill? Can you please clarify because I am not in Hyderabad for a long time,” read a tweet from a user named Suman with handle @sumansowji. Many said that it would have been better if Telangana followed the same model as Andhra Pradesh, which has considered the power consumption of last month to issue this month’s bill. “AP has done a simple thing of making the current bill same as the last generated bill. Why is Telangana making it troublesome...” questioned Vipul Kumar. K Ramulu, director (Commercial, DPE, Assessment and Energy Audit), Telangana State Southern Power Distribution Company Limited, said, “Right now, there is no other option. We can’t consider individual cases and change rules. But next month’s bill amount will be adjusted by taking an average of two months power consumption,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/power-bill-move-a-shocker-for-citizens/articleshow/75088699.cms||Nirupa Vatyam
April 11, 2020||Ahmedabad||Dawoodi Bohra community chips in with relief for poor||Ahmedabad: Members of the Dawoodi Bohra community of the city have been among the people and organizations bringing succour to the needy. The community has been distributing food packets to the poor in several areas of the city for the past week.Members of the community have been distributing about 2,000 packets on a daily basis to the poor living around Gulbarg Society in Chamanpura, Asarwa, Amraiwadi, Ranip, Fatehwadi, and Sarkhej. Pooling in resources from leading members of the community, the Dawoodi Bohra group intends to continue distributing food packets until the lockdown is lifted. Firozkhan Pathan, a survivor of the Gulbarg Society communal violence, who has been accompanying the volunteers, said, “We have been helping poor people get food, irrespective of their religion.” Pathan went on to say: “This is the time for helping anybody in need.”Qutubuddin Diwan, one of the volunteers, said: “We come across several people who say they have not had food for a couple of days because of the lockdown.” Diwan went on to say: “We have been trying our best to reach as many slums as possible.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/dawoodi-bohra-community-chips-in-with-relief-for-poor/articleshow/75088748.cms||---
April 11, 2020||Thiruvananthapuram||Kutty Desk and Play Hub offer reprieve for kids||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM: To address the boredom and distress of school students who are confined to their homes during the lockdown period that should otherwise have been their summer vacation, the state police have planned a host of programmes to keep them engaged while at home. The department has joined hands with Our Responsibility to Children programme of the Women and Child Development Department and Student Police Cadets programme in this regard. One of the main programmes is Kutty Desk, a helpline operated by students for the students. This programme provides telephonic guidance to their peers on various aspects such as how to keep personal hygiene and stay safe and on how to spend time effectively and creatively during the lockdown. The programme which was initially launched by the ORC team of Kollam has now been extended to all districts. As part of this initiative, 220 children were selected and trained to operate Kutty Desk activities. So far, around 4,820 children were called and counselled by the Kutty Desk. Another programme is Play Hub through which the students at home are given various tasks through online. The students are not just required to do the tasks but also make a video of the task with the help of parents. These videos are posted on dedicated social media platforms such as the Facebook page of ORC. Play Hub has also started posting various videos on physical exercises on the social media platforms, encouraging children to try the same and stay physically fit. As part of the Play Hub, a language lab has also been set up to make children learn basics of English language in interesting ways. “In normal conditions, this would be the time students attend summer camps and learn new skills. Our effort is to provide them such opportunities through online so that the time they spend at homes is not wasted,” said inspector general P Vijayan., who is spearheading the Student Police Cadets initiative of the state police.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/thiruvananthapuram/kutty-desk-and-play-hub-offer-reprieve-for-kids/articleshow/75087138.cms||Rejith Balakrishnan
April 11, 2020||Jaipur||Spitting pan, tobacco products in public places a crime in Rajasthan||JAIPUR: The state government on Friday banned spitting in public places by people chewing pan, tobacco as well as non-tobacco products under Section 2 of the Rajasthan Epidemic Diseases Act, 1957. Whoever found guilty will face an action under Section 188 of the IPC. Likewise, the state government has also decided to give hydroxychloroquine to policemen on duty in vulnerable areas after consulting doctors. In a notification, Rohit Kumar Singh, additional chief secretary, medical and health, banned spitting of chewing tobacco, pan and non-tobacco products in public places. “Whoever found violating the order would be liable for action under Section 188 of the IPC,” the order said. The government said that such a ban was necessary as many people addicted to tobacco products have been found spitting in public places, which may result in spreading Covid-19 infection. “The ban will be applicable till the lockdown continues across the state,” the order said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/spitting-pan-tobaccoproducts-in-publicplaces-a-crime-in-raj/articleshow/75089309.cms||---
April 11, 2020||Bhopal||Indore: Woman in labour & foetus die in shuttle for hospital||INDORE: Running around for an ambulance and then a hospital in the Covid-19 lockdown, a woman in labour and her yet-to-be-born baby died in Indore on Friday. The woman, in full-term pregnancy, was kept waiting for over two hours at the state-run MY Hospital, before being sent away, alleged her husband, Suraj, a resident of Adarsh Bhushan Nagar in Pardeshipura. MY Hospital Superintendent Dr PS Thakur said they have taken the matter very seriously and it will be investigated. “We will check CCTV footage to verify the statements and strict action will be taken if doctors are found guilty,” he said. According to Suraj, his wife Deepa started having labour pain in the morning. Her family panicked when the ambulance requested by them failed to turn up. “I took her in an autorickshaw to MY Hospital, where she was taken to the first floor. For two hours, no one examined her,” Suraj said. The doctors allegedly asked Suraj to give her a medicine and “return when her labour pangs grow strong”. The couple rushed to Karuna Maternity and Nursing Home which is across the road from MY Hospital. “She came with elevated blood pressure and needed immediate hospitalization and ICU care. We would have managed her initially with magnesium sulphate injections and shifted her to an ICU elsewhere as we don't have one,” the nursing home’s Dr H K Kansal told TOI. Suraj said he could not bear the expense of ICU, and returned home with his wife. Soon, she started having convulsions and he took her back to the nursing home, which referred her to MY Hospital. She was declared dead on arrival. The foetus died with her.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/woman-in-labour-foetus-die-in-shuttle-for-hospital/articleshow/75088707.cms||Sagar Choukse
April 11, 2020||Vadodara||Donations trickle in for mayor’s fund||Vadodara: Much like Prime Minister’s National Relief Fund and Chief Minister’s Relief Fund, donations have started trickling in for the mayor’s fund in Vadodara. From firemen to corporates, all have contributed to the mayor’s fund. The fire department of the civic body donated Rs50,000 to the fund from the welfare fund of its employees. The biggest donation so far was made by Alembic Ltd that donated Rs10 lakh to the fund. An amount of Rs14.06lakh has been added to the fund so far in the wake of COVID-19 outbreak. The other major contributors include Digambar Jain Samaj, Alkapuri that contributed Rs1 lakh. A construction firm owner Jalpesh Sojitra contributed an equal amount even as the senior citizens group from Tarsali contributed Rs11,000. Alembic Ltd has also contributed Rs10 crore towards Chief Minister’s Relief Fund and donated Rs15 lakh to Sikkim government. It has also proposed to arrange for 10,000 novel coronavirus tests on prescriptions by doctors and waiver of fees for two schools run by the group where students from lower economic strata study. In another state board school, it has proposed to give 50 per cent rebate in fees for parents who may have been adversely affected due to the outbreak.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/donations-trickle-in-for-mayors-fund/articleshow/75088715.cms||---
April 11, 2020||Nashik||Nashik: Two arrested & two minors detained on charges of attempted murder||NASHIK: The Ambad police have arrested two people and detained two minors on charges of attempted murder of a shopkeeper over cigarettes in the wee hours of Thursday. The two people were produced before a city court on Thursday which remanded them in three days of police custody. Police said that the suspects and two juveniles had woken up a shopkeeper in Kamatwada in Ambad at around 3.45am on Thursday for cigarettes. The shopkeeper’s house was beside the shop. When he told the suspects that he did not have any cigarettes in his shop, they allegedly beat him up with a sharp weapon. Following which the shopkeeper’s brother arrived, the suspects ransacked the shop, an autorickshaw and a motorcycle owned by the shopkeeper. The shopkeeper also asked the suspects to check for themselves if he had cigarettes in the shop. The shopkeeper lodged a complaint with the Ambad police after which the two suspects, acquainted to him, were arrested and the two minors were also detained.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/two-arrested-two-minors-detained-on-charges-of-attempted-murder/articleshow/75088133.cms||---
April 11, 2020||Ludhiana||Suspected Covid-19 patient spits, misbehaves with staff||Ludhiana: A quarantined patient reportedly misbehaved inside the male isolation ward of the civil hospital on Friday. The 22-year-old from Gagan Nagar, New Shimlapuri, who was admitted to the hospital on Wednesday, spat all over the ward from Friday morning to noon and misbehaved with the staff too.Cleaners and Class IV employees raised the issue with the authorities, but he refused to cooperate with doctors too.A doctor said, “He was not cooperating with the staff and since morning was spitting all around at nursing station, on tiles of male isolation ward, floor, handles and even taps of washrooms. He also rolled himself on all the beds of isolation ward. We immediately locked him up in a four-bed isolation ward and called a psychiatrist.”Doctors wrote to the senior medical officer (SMO), who complained to the police. SMO Dr Ravi Dutt said, “This sort of behaviour when the whole country is facing a pandemic of unseen proportions is indefensible. We can only hope that better sense prevails. We have raised the issue of misbehaviour and non-cooperation with the health authorities and lodged a complaint at Division 2 police station.”Earlier too, two cases were reported from the civil hospital wherein two Covid-19 suspects had fled from the isolation ward. As many as 53 patients are admitted at the civil hospital isolation ward. On Friday, six throat swabs were sent to Rajindra Hospital, Patiala. Five positive patients have been quarantined in separate isolation wards. There are six rooms in one isolation ward.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/suspected-covid-19-patient-spits-misbehaves-with-staff/articleshow/75088123.cms||Mehak Jain
April 11, 2020||Chennai||Healthcare workers, cops underpaid, says Madras high court, bats for a raise||CHENNAI: Doctors, health workers and police are working day and night throughout the year but are not paid adequately, said the Madras high court on Friday. Their work and services are essential for maintaining good health and law and order in society, a division bench of Justice N Kirubakaran and Justice R Hemalatha said, expressing hope that respective governments would appreciate their services with a proper increase in their salaries. “This court hails and appreciates the round-the-clock service rendered by doctors, health workers, sanitary workers and police in the fight against the dangerous pandemic, which is threatening the entire humanity,” the judges said. “This court is also concerned with the health condition of the doctors, health workers, sanitary workers and police as they are the forefront warriors in the fight against Covid-19. Therefore, they should be given sufficient break, which, according to the state, is being given.” The health professionals and police personnel should also be safeguarded against the viral attack, the bench said, adding, “they should be subjected to regular testing by the authorities. The court made the observation on a public interest writ petition filed by an advocate seeking direction to the state government to ensure medical assistance for all Covid-19 affected patients free of cost. The petition said the government had not made available sufficient number of masks and personal protective equipment (PPE) to doctors and health workers. Denying the allegation, additional advocate-general P H Arvindh Pandian submitted that about 37,648 PPEs, 1.17 lakh N-95 masks and 7.75lakh three-layered masks were available with the state. About 14,000 testing kits are also available as on date, he added. As to the allegation of the petitioner that though about 45,000 people, including 100 doctors and 3,500 paramedical staff had registered for voluntary service but their services were not being utilised, Pandian said in case of necessity the administration would always call upon them for rendering services. Recording the submissions, the bench adjourned the plea by two weeks.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/healthcare-workers-cops-underpaid-says-hc-bats-for-a-raise/articleshow/75088712.cms||---
April 11, 2020||Dehradun||Roorkee: Two Tablighi Jamaat members held for hiding travel history||ROORKEE: Two men were booked by city police on Friday under “attempt to murder” charges for concealing their participation in the Tablighi Jamaat event this year. The men are natives of a village near Laksar town. The health department has sent the two men to a quarantine facility in Piran Kaliyar for 14 days and has collected their samples for Covid-19 test. According to Abhinav Sharma, senior sub-inspector of Laksar police, two men, both in their early twenties, had gone to the Markaz event in Delhi’s Nizamuddin on January 13. Later, they moved to Kanpur for 40 days and then came to Uttarakhand. “It is mandatory for people, who have taken part in any Jamaat event this year, to report to us but the two accused didn’t disclose their travel history to police before April 6 despite DGP’s warning,” said Sharma. The accused have been booked under sections 307 (attempt to murder), 188 (disobedience of magistrate order), 269 (negligent act likely to spread infection of disease dangerous to life), and 270 (spread infectious diseases), and 336 (endangering act to the safety of others) of the Indian Penal Code (IPC).||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/2-jamaat-members-held-for-hiding-travel-history/articleshow/75088710.cms||Tapan Susheel
April 11, 2020||India||HCQ supply doubled in domestic market to prevent hoarding||NEW DELHI: The government doubled supply of hydroxychloroquine (HCQ) tablets in the domestic market to address possible hoarding after despatching the drug to countries on the “first list” based on criteria like pending requests, neighbourhood and countries worst affected by Covid-19, MEA additional secretary Damu Ravi said. Addressing reports of shortage, government officials said there were sufficient stocks of HCQ in the country to meet demand and also for a buffer. The government estimates that India needs 1.6 crore tablets until the end of the month and kept 3.28 crore tablets, health ministry joint secretary Lav Agarwal said. The figures were provided in response to some opposition politicians like Shashi Tharoor saying India was risking shortage to give in to the United States and other international demands. Congress leader Rahul Gandhi also pointed to the need to ensure domestic supplies. Ravi said the ban on drug exports had been reviewed by the empowered group of ministers and the committee of secretaries, keeping in view domestic priorities. “Having kept a buffer stock, the government decided to release some surplus medicines, including HCQ and paracetamol, for export,” he said. The countries first receiving the exports are those who had ordered before the ban kicked in. The countries who would be prioritised would be those whose infection levels are high as will neighbouring countries. HCQ is being given to frontline health workers, ward boys and those in direct contact with a Covid-19 patient as prophylactic, but only with a doctor’s prescription. However, the buzz around HCQ exports led to some amount of hoarding, according to government sources.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/hcq-supply-doubled-in-domestic-market-to-prevent-hoarding/articleshow/75089689.cms||Indrani Bagchi
April 11, 2020||Nagpur||Staffers in a tizzy after bodies of corona suspects land in mortuary||Nagpur: A section of the forensic department of Government medical college and hospital and Mayo Hospital were uneasy after bodies of corona suspects landed at the mortuaries despite guidelines for not performing post-mortem on them. It is learnt that the bodies were shifted to the mortuaries as the results of their samples were awaited when they died. The staffers were in a quandary when asked to handle the bodies without PPEs. “The bodies can be kept in freezers at the Isolation wards instead of shifting to mortuaries where medical students also come for studies, police come for inquest of other bodies and also relatives of the deceased,” said an employee on condition of anonymity. Dr TP Lahane, director, medical education and research, Maharashtra state, said if well-covered with four-layered plastic, the dead body of the Covid-19 deceased cannot infect others. “There are clear rules and regulations in place to avoid infection,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/staffers-in-a-tizzy-after-bodies-of-corona-suspects-land-in-mortuary/articleshow/75088716.cms||Chaitanya Deshpande
April 11, 2020||Madurai||As demand goes up for PPE kits, Tuticorin village rises to occasion||Tuticorin: Tucked away in a quiet village near Kovilpatti in Tuticorin district are 15 tailors and 25 employees of a private manufacturing unit slogging for nearly 18 hours a day to stitch personal protective equipment (PPE) kits for supply to various hospitals to meet the overflowing demand. So far, PPE kits from the unit situated at Nakkalamuthanpatti village have been despatched to government and private hospitals in Andhra Pradesh and Chennai, Madurai, Trichy and Ramanathapuram districts. “All the 11,000 plus kits that we made are sold out. We have orders for more than 15,000 PPE kits,” said T Sundar, who procures and sells hospital equipment. “We used to import equipment including ultrasound Doppler scanners. We bought PPE kits from Kerala and Gujarat and supplied them to Tamil Nadu Medical Services Corporation Limited and leading hospitals in other states. Due to demand we could not procure the kits,” Sundar told TOI. Due to this, they started manufacturing PPE kits from March 25. Sundar said their unit is able to make 1,000 kits a day and have nearly doubled their production by outsourcing the orders to three other units. He said his unit roped in tailors from their garment manufacturing unit. Raw material and goggles are purchased from Gujarat, masks from Mumbai and gloves from Kerala. Ten people are involved in cutting the spun material to make the full body suits. The suit is stitched in one piece and separate covers for the shoes. The kit is then assembled, folded, packed and despatched by 15 others. “We began slowly by making 300 to 400 kits in the first two days as it was different from other garments. Now, each tailor stitches 50 to 100 suits a day,” Sundar said. One of the tailors, R A Saravan Siva Venkatesh, 29 of Kovilpatti, said that theirs is a seasonal business in which they used to make Rs 800 to 1,200 by working 10 hours a day. “Now, I am making Rs 1,500 to Rs 2,000 a day,” he said. While he stitches a little more than 50 suits a day, other tailors who stitch up to 100 sets a day make Rs 2,500. The team starts around 9am and continues till around 4am the next day with a 30 minute break each for lunch and dinner and smaller breaks for tea. They stay in the company, where food is also provided. By outsourcing orders to three other units, Sundar’s firm has increased production to 1,900 PPE kits per day and are targeting 2,000 PPEs as demand is bound to increase. “A leading cement company has placed orders for 10,000 PPE kits to be donated to healthcare professionals. We have 5,000 orders from AP,” Sundar said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/as-demand-goes-up-for-ppe-kits-tuticorin-village-rises-to-occasion/articleshow/75089310.cms||M K Ananth
April 11, 2020||Kochi||Clinical patterns in state mild: Study||Kochi: The World Health Organization (WHO) may have expressed grave concern at the alarming levels of severity of the infection globally, but there is an encouraging aspect to the Covid-19 outbreak in Kerala. Majority of the people testing positive for coronavirus in the state have had mild symptoms that require little or no medical intervention. Fever is the most common symptom, but even that is found to be absent in more than 50% of patients. The reported symptoms in the state were studied by the Kerala State Disaster Management Authority (KSDMA) as part of a report, ‘Covid-19 — Refined Projections and Inferences on Epidemic Outbreak in Kerala With Action Proposals’, that was submitted to the state government on Thursday. “The clinical patterns we found in our state are mild. Up to 20% is asymptomatic. Fever is the most common symptom but still in less than 50%,” the study says. “We found that the symptoms here are very mild, suggesting that the infection is also very mild. In contrast, in Europe, we see a severe pattern of the infection. Of the 80% who had some symptoms in the state, majority didn’t have any problem,” said Dr Anish T S, associate professor, community medicine, Thiruvananthapuram Medical College, who is presently posted as the public health consultant with KSDMA. Kerala had reported two deaths and has three persons in ICU. For the study, the KSDMA team analyzed symptoms of 183 confirmed cases till March 31. The most common symptom reported by patients here is fever, with almost 44% complaining of it. This was followed by cough (29%) and sore throat (22%). While about 16% complained of diarrhoea, 13% had headache and anosmia (loss of ability to smell) each. About 18% were asymptomatic or without any symptoms. While some reported one symptom, others complained of two or more symptoms. “We are testing many people with mild symptoms in the state. Critical cases are a few. There were a few patients with multi-organ dysfunction but no case of direct neuro invasiveness to the brain due to Covid-19 has been reported so far from Kerala,” said Dr Aravind R, head of department, infectious diseases, Thiruvananthapuram Medical College Hospital. One of the probable reasons for mild symptoms is that majority of people infected here are in the 20 to 59 age group (56%). The number of persons infected in the vulnerable sections is few, with about 13% above the age of 60. Though children below the age of 18 were infected and few were hospitalized, hardly any needed critical care. Of the 13% in the 60+ age bracket, almost 80% needed critical care. By contrast, just about 6% needed hospitalization in the 30-49 age group, as per the study.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/clinical-patterns-in-state-mild-study/articleshow/75087180.cms||---
April 11, 2020||Nashik||Police contemplate to limit timings of operating grocery stores||Nashik: City police are contemplating to limit the timings of operating grocery stores to control the movement of people outside their houses. Commissioner of police Vishwas Nangare Patil has sought reports from respective areas where the movement of people is more during the lockdown to initiate measures to stop it. CP Vishwas Nangare Patil said, “Citizens in certain parts of the city like Gangapur Road, College Road are not coming out of their houses without any reason. However, in certain areas, the lockdown orders are not being followed properly. On this backdrop, reports have been sought from such area.” He said that a lot of people are coming out of their houses on the pretext of buying grocery. If the timings of operating grocery stores are decided like only in the afternoon, then people will not venture out in the evenings. “This is at the planning level. Grocery stores come under essential services. But if people are violating the orders then the police will take strict measures,” he added. According to the police, if the shops are kept open in the afternoon, due to the scorching sun, people would purchase the week’s stock at one time instead of going out every afternoon. If the shops are not permitted to operate after 5 pm, there would be no reason for people to come out other than going to medical stores, hospitals. Though the police are taking strict measures to control the movement of people, areas like Cidco, Satpur, Nashik Road, etc are witnessing crowds in the morning and evening. The police said that they have seized more than 1,100 vehicles from citizens who were found moving around in the city unnecessarily. The police said that the concerned motorists would get their vehicles back only after the lockdown period was over. Nangare Patil said that he would soon be calling for a meeting with the officials of all the units and zones of the city to take stock of the different areas and take a decision on it.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/police-contemplate-to-limit-timings-of-operating-grocery-stores/articleshow/75088139.cms||Santosh Sonawane
April 11, 2020||Ahmedabad||SSIP tech challenge gets over 300 applications||Ahmedabad: A temperature gun was an alien concept for the majority of the population a few months ago, and so were the protective masks for the masses. But both faced sudden rise in demand and caused concern for quality. What about glasses with in-built thermal scanners or masks that can change colour in presence of virus? These are some of the ideas which are submitted to the Student Startup and Innovation Policy (SSIP)-initiated Student Open COVID-19 Innovation Challenge in past fortnight. The organizers said that 300-plus proposals from various innovators across universities in Gujarat have been received. Anju Sharma, principal secretary (higher & technical education), said that the initiative has two-pronged approach. “The first is of course harnessing the potential of student innovations which are practical, scalable and affordable. The second motive is to keep the students engaged during the lockdown. It’s also an opportunity for them to put what they have learnt into practice for the larger good,” she said. The challenge so far has yielded a wide array of innovations ranging from masks, disinfectants on one end of the spectrum and medical equipment including ventilators on the other. In between are the surveillance drones, AI-based CCTV camera networks and apps for e-commerce for the corner kirana shops. Hiranmay Mahanta, advisor to SSIP and director of GTU Innovation Council, said that it was the first such open challenge across India with focus on COVID-19.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/ssip-tech-challenge-gets-over-300-applications/articleshow/75088746.cms||Parth Shastri
April 11, 2020||Chennai||Shallow supply leaves some Chennai shops short of staples||CHENNAI: Fifteen days into the shutdown, prices have begun to creep up in the city but there is no panic buying. There is, however, a slight shortage of a few items which are in demand. With replenishments hard to come by, items like oil, rava, beaten rice and noodles or vermicelli are in short supply in places like Triplicane and Saidapet. Biscuits, milk powder, soaps and toothpaste too have become scarce. While prices have gone up by Rs 10-Rs 20 a kg for rice, maida, non-branded noodles, dry pasta, mustard, atta, garlic and appalam, urad dal is up by Rs 30 a kg, channa dal by Rs 20 a kg and tur dal by Rs 70 a kg. But few are complaining. On Friday, people waited patiently before grocery stores, standing well apart from each other. Large shops and supermarkets had to handle delivery men from online grocers and ran out of certain items quickly. Availability of groceries and prices varied across the city. Shops in Anna Nagar, which depend on the Koyambedu market, had it easy, while those depending on George Town or T Nagar found it tough. Anna Nagar resident P S Vidyalakshmi said, “I am getting everything here. But it varies from one day to another, is not consistent. I have cut down on making evening snacks like murukku, bajji and others to not use up flour.” At Triplicane, at the other end of the city, Spoorthi M couldn’t get rava, vermicelli or beaten rice. The way people shop too has changed. Some hop from shop to shop looking for what they need, while others buy in. Many look for products for a quick breakfast/ lunch rather than cooking up elaborate fare requiring multiple ingredients. While Syed Rashid said there was an increase in demand for noodles, vermicelli and pasta at his shop, Shankar M, a trader in Royapettah, said the shortage of items was because retailers didn’t have easy access. “Wholesalers have stopped delivering goods. We have to go and buy before 1pm. So, many shops are able to procure only one item per day. They try to buy more than the usual quantity. In place of 2,000 sacks, only 800 sacks are arriving daily.” The number of trucks bringing groceries to the city daily has dipped from 500 to 300, but Tamil Nadu Vanigar Sangankalin Peramaippu president A M Vikramaraja denied any hoarding attempt to inflate prices. The legal metrology department hasn’t got any complaint, but “we will direct officials to check,” minister for labour Dr Nilofer Kafeel said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/shallow-supply-leaves-some-city-shops-short-of-staples/articleshow/75088720.cms||---
April 11, 2020||Goa||Quepem grocers warned of action if found profiteering||QUEPEM: Taking cognisance of a TOI report, Quepem deputy collector Rohit Kadam on Friday warned shopkeepers within his jurisdiction of severe action if they were found to be hoarding and hiking prices of essential items. The local administration also conducted an inventory of essential commodities available at seven prominent stores in the town. Director of civil supplies Siddhivinayak Naik camped at Quepem on Friday and officials monitored shopkeepers constantly. The town presently has around 1,700kg of rice, 1,000kg of wheat, 2,500 of sugar, 500kg of toor dal, and 1,000 litres of cooking oil, officials said. TOI had reported that most grocers in the town had downed their shutters claiming they were short on stocks. Till Friday morning, most stores, including Sahakar Bhandar, said they had insufficient stocks of toor dal, rava, biscuits and many other groceries. However, while an official of Sahakar Bhandar told TOI that the store had received just 5% of the stocks required, its manager, when later confronted by deputy collector Kadam, denied this. The deputy collector said he was concerned only with the availability of dal, rice and wheat as these constitute essentials. He also asked shopkeepers to contact him if they were unable to procure stocks from wholesalers. Meanwhile, the owner of Raj Stores, Philomeno Pereira, insisted that he did not have any stocks. “An official told me to open my shop even if I do not have anything to sell. I only have ‘Kurkure’ snack packets and nothing else,” he said. The official later told TOI that he requested Pereira to keep his shop open and sell whatever he had.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/quepem-grocers-warned-of-action-if-found-profiteering/articleshow/75089316.cms||Johnny M
April 11, 2020||Madurai||Lockdown must not continue, but be relaxed in phases: MKU ex-prof||Madurai: Continuing the present lockdown is unwarranted and it should be relaxed in a phased manner as soon as possible, though the unseen virus has brought the world to a standstill, former professor of Immunology at the Madurai Kamaraj University (MKU), Dr R M Pitchappan has said. Speaking to TOI, he said that viral infections have been playing havoc on mankind since time immemorial. At the end of the day, it was the sub-clinical infection and herd immunity that prevailed and protected the population. It is usually stated that in immunogenetic parlance that “not all the infected develop the disease”. Thus, even if a virus entered a host, it need not essentially manifest into a disease, which is sometimes called ‘virulence’. The virulence dies out with time. “This is what we aim to achieve through the lockdowns,” he said. The virus that is wreaking havoc in other countries is slow in its spread in India. The three weeks’ lockdown in India has given a breather to organize ourselves, medical aid and enable tracking and isolating the cases and contacts. Essentially, this has cut the chain transmission into community, which is the first step in tackling any new pandemic/epidemic. Pitchappan said that it is now time to consider the cost benefit ratio. The economy of the country and livelihood of individuals should be considered. He said the extension of the full lockdown was not needed. “This suggestion was based on the history of infectious diseases – their pandemic/epidemic in the past and their elimination/ disappearance from the world,” he said.. What could be done is a partial lockdown for another month, public services like bus, train and air services should be resumed in a phased manner. This is the first time that public transport vehicles have been completely sanitized in India in recent times and this should become a daily activity. Case finding, contact tracing and quarantine shall be continued for another two months. Government offices can start functioning with social distancing at regular hours. Industries should be made responsible for the health of their employees. Scientists in central laboratories and universities with facilities to study various aspects of Covid-19 outbreak, treatment and immunity shall be identified and entrusted to carry out the work. In India, the field of epidemiology needs to be strengthened further. “If it is done in another two months, we would know the status of herd immunity developed, which is the only solution to the current virus crisis, in the absence of a vaccine,” Pitchappan said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/lockdown-must-not-continue-but-be-relaxed-in-phases-mku-ex-prof/articleshow/75089313.cms||---
April 11, 2020||Nagpur||No transport, but NMC tells butchers to remove hides||Nagpur: The lockdown has led to huge quantity of animal hides getting piled up in storehouses near the slaughter house at Mominpura locality. The hides may start decomposing in 4-5 days leading to foul smell. As the butchers are unable to find transport to despatch the hides to tanneries, NMC has slapped notices asking them to clear the storehouses in 24 hours. This has added to their troubles, they say. The hides of slaughtered animals are kept in storehouses after being treated with salt and chemicals to be further sold to tanneries. The lockdown has also led to a shortage of animals leading to meat prices doubling at Rs 700 to 800 a kg This is because the goats are only being sourced locally. Supplies form Chhindwara in Madhya Pradesh which has been the major source here have stopped due to restrictions on transport. “ Substantial quantity of hides are lying at the storehouses. The notices were sent to four butchers who are major dealers in hides and are holding the entire stock,” said Ateeq Qureshi, a social activist in the locality. Qureshi said the butchers are ready to clear it but no transport is available. “The authorites should allow the vehicles carrying the hides to pass,” he said. Zubair Ahmed, a trader, said the hides had piled up after Holi and by the time the stock was enough to be cleared, the lockdown happened. “We can still wait for another 4 to 5 days before it starts rotting. It should reach the tanneries before that,” he said. Ashok Patil, NMC assistant commissioner for Gandhibagh zone which covers Mominpura, said the notices were served because having storehouse in the locality itself was illegal. The storehouses have been since years, said Qureshi. Mominpura has the only slaughter house in the city.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/no-transport-but-nmc-tells-butchers-to-remove-hides/articleshow/75088722.cms||Shishir Arya
April 11, 2020||Mysuru||Two wards declared containment zones in Mandya||Mandya: Within 24 hours of a positive case being detected in Mandya city, Ward No 32 and 33 have been declared as containment zones while a 5-km radius of the area has been declared a buffer zone. Movement of people in the containment zone is strictly prohibited where essential supplies are provided by the authorities at people’s doorsteps. Hopcoms are being tasked with the supply of vegetables and fruits. The overall situation is being monitored by deputy commissioner Venkatesh and superintendent of police Parashuram. Venkatesh and Parashuram visited Swarnasandra Colony, which is declared as a containment zone and assured people that their needs would be taken care of by the district administration. All kinds of help would be made available for them round-the-clock, they were informed. In the buffer zone, petrol bunks have been strictly told not to supply petrol and diesel to private vehicles in order to contain the freewheeling mindset of people who have been creating obstacles in implementing the effective lockdown.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mysuru/two-wards-declared-containment-zones-in-mandya/articleshow/75087157.cms||---
April 11, 2020||Ahmedabad||All residents of Paldi building quarantined||Ahmedabad: The Ahmedabad Municipal Corporation has decided to quarantine an entire apartment building in Paldi after three Covid-19 cases were reported from within it. Senior AMC officials said Neelam Apartments was quarantined after two cases emerged from one family and one from another family. The officials in the AMC said that this is the first entire society to be quarantined in Paldi they are keeping a watch on colonies nearby. Basic provisions for residents of Neelam Apartments will be delivered to them by the AMC. Regular visits for health enquiries will be made by the AMC health team,” said senior AMC officer. A social media group has been formed for members to share their problems with the civic body. There were rumours floating that another society in Kiran Park had been quarantined but AMC officials denied this.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/all-residents-of-paldi-building-quarantined/articleshow/75088740.cms||---
April 11, 2020||Vadodara||Help us with your drones, cops urge Barodians||Vadodara: Have a drone and want to help the police for a few days? You can ring up your nearest police station with your offer and help them in enforcing lockdown with your gadget. The police department, which is in dire need of more eyes, has appealed to citizens to help them with their drones till the lockdown is in force. The city police is using two drones now to monitor different areas and tackle those found to be flouting lockdown rules. “Many citizens were offering their help and so we have urged those having drones to support us in our work. The more drones we have, the better we can patrol different areas including the interiors,” said Jaydeepsinh Jadeja, DCP (crime). The cops have already filed 33 cases and arrested 66 citizens with the help of drone cameras in last one week. The police have also sought help of citizens in giving innovative ideas for enforcing lockdown across the city.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/help-us-with-your-drones-cops-urge-barodians/articleshow/75088727.cms||---
April 11, 2020||Indore||Covid-19: Second doctor dies in Indore; city’s mortality rate 12%||INDORE: Another medical practitioner died of Covid-19 in Indore on Friday. The 65-year-old was among six deaths reported during the day, which took the city’s toll to 29. In a span of few hours, Indore’s mortality rate from Covid-19 shot up from 10% to 12% -- four times the national average. The city accounts for around half of MP’s 455 coronavirus cases, and 74% of its deaths. On Thursday, a doctor had died in Indore – the first medical practitioner in the state to be killed by the virus. Friday’s victim was a retired Ayush officer of Dhar district, about 70km from Indore. He practiced in Brahma Bagh Colony. “A 65-year-old private practitioner died because of Covid-19. We are gathering information on him,” said Indore chief medical and health officer Dr Praveen Jadia. The administration is trying to trace people who may have visited his clinic or come in contact with him. The doctor who died on Thursday had seen patients after testing negative twice for coronavirus. Three of the other deaths were mentioned in the MGM Medical College bulletin. A 52-year-old man from Satya Dev Nagar died in MY Hospital. He was admitted to hospital on April 6 and had chronic kidney disease. He died on April 8. There aren’t much details of the two other deaths mentioned in this bulletin. The other two deaths were reported at Gokuldas Hospital – men aged 65 and 70. They were from Pinjare Bangal and Juna Risala areas and were admitted to hospital on April 5-6. The younger of the two died on April 7, two days before he tested positive. The 70-year-old died on April 8, the day he tested positive. The details were released on Friday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/indore/second-doc-dies-in-indore-citys-mortality-rate-12/articleshow/75092117.cms||---
April 11, 2020||Madurai||Lockdown must not continue, but be relaxed in phases: MKU ex-professor||MADURAI: Continuing the present lockdown is unwarranted and it should be relaxed in a phased manner as soon as possible, though the unseen virus has brought the world to a standstill, former professor of Immunology at the Madurai Kamaraj University (MKU), Dr R M Pitchappan has said. Speaking to TOI, he said that viral infections have been playing havoc on mankind since time immemorial. At the end of the day, it was the sub-clinical infection and herd immunity that prevailed and protected the population. It is usually stated that in immunogenetic parlance that “not all the infected develop the disease”. Thus, even if a virus entered a host, it need not essentially manifest into a disease, which is sometimes called ‘virulence’. The virulence dies out with time. “This is what we aim to achieve through the lockdowns,” he said. The virus that is wreaking havoc in other countries is slow in its spread in India. The three weeks’ lockdown in India has given a breather to organize ourselves, medical aid and enable tracking and isolating the cases and contacts. Essentially, this has cut the chain transmission into community, which is the first step in tackling any new pandemic/epidemic. Pitchappan said that it is now time to consider the cost benefit ratio. The economy of the country and livelihood of individuals should be considered. He said the extension of the full lockdown was not needed. “This suggestion was based on the history of infectious diseases – their pandemic/epidemic in the past and their elimination/ disappearance from the world,” he said.. What could be done is a partial lockdown for another month, public services like bus, train and air services should be resumed in a phased manner. This is the first time that public transport vehicles have been completely sanitized in India in recent times and this should become a daily activity. Case finding, contact tracing and quarantine shall be continued for another two months. Government offices can start functioning with social distancing at regular hours. Industries should be made responsible for the health of their employees. Scientists in central laboratories and universities with facilities to study various aspects of Covid-19 outbreak, treatment and immunity shall be identified and entrusted to carry out the work. In India, the field of epidemiology needs to be strengthened further. “If it is done in another two months, we would know the status of herd immunity developed, which is the only solution to the current virus crisis, in the absence of a vaccine,” Pitchappan said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/lockdown-must-not-continue-but-be-relaxed-in-phases-mku-ex-prof/articleshow/75089314.cms||Padmini Sivarajah
April 11, 2020||Madurai||Transportation woes hit salt industry in Tuticorin district||Madurai: Salt is an essential commodity and there is no restriction on working in salt pans or transporting it. However, the lockdown has affected transportation and has affected movement of labourers and finished goods. Tuticorin Small Scale Salt Manufacturers Association secretary ARAS Dhanabalan said that they are able to produce only 60% against their full capacity. In some salt pans the impact is heavier. One of the main reasons cited by salt producers is the inability of labourers to reach the place of work. Industry sources said that salt pans in Tuticorin accounts for more than 70% of salt produced in Tamil Nadu employing nearly 25,000 labourers directly as the industry here is far from mechanisation.“Of the 70 permanent workers at my salt pans only 20 are turning up for work after the lockdown. It is because the workforce is from Ananthamadanpacheri, Melamarudhur and Jakkamalpuram villages that are about six kilometres away from my fields. They come to work in buses, vans, autorickshaws, mini goods carriers and tractors,” said S Petchimuthu a salt manufacturer from Tharuvaikulam.Buses are off the road and so are most of the other modes of transport. Tuticorin collector Sandeep Nanduri stated the issue was brought to his notice by representatives of salt producers earlier this week. He clarified that there is no restriction in issuing passes to transport labourers and that they have issued 15 passes for salt units. The collector also said that applicants need not go all the way to the district collectorate for passes as it could be done online. “We also faced difficulty applying for passes online. Now only those who have two-wheelers and live close to the pans are coming to work,” Dhanabalan said. On the other hand, transporting salt too has become difficult. “Lorries are demanding 50% more to take salt to their destinations and it is unaffordable,” he added. Stating that April to July is the peak season for salt production, the industry has sought interference from the government to make it conducive for labourers to reach the work place and clear hassles in transporting salt.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/transportation-woes-hit-salt-industry-in-tuticorin-district/articleshow/75089317.cms||---
April 11, 2020||Nagpur||Civic body involves community to check community transmission||Nagpur: The Nagpur Municipal Corporation (NMC) containment teams and city police have adopted a micro plan with the help of community members to contain local transmission of Covid-19 after positive cases surfaced in Muslim-dominated Takia in Mominpura locality and the commercial hub Satranjipura. Declared as containment zones, Takia and Satranjipura areas have been cordoned off from April 4 and April 7 respectively. Under the micro plan, movement of residents would remain restricted for 14 days from date. All houses in and around the patient’s residence are surveyed and NMC identifies family members and close contacts of patient, examines them and places them in institutional quarantine. Only government staffers, police, residents having medical emergency, essential services and funerals (with limited number of people) are being allowed. Several lanes have been blocked by some residents themselves. The police have blocked four entry points and 14 lanes in Satranjipura while 45 lanes are blocked in Mominpura to restrict movement. The police bandobast was made stricter after six positive cases were reported following the city’s first Covid-19 death. Under ward no. 8, the area between Teen Khamb Chowk, Naalsaheb Chowk, Bhagwaghar Chowk and Jama Masjid was notified as containment zone, comprising around 40,000 people, after a cap seller tested positive on April 4. Similarly, civic chief Tukaram Mundhe notified a containment zone at Satranjipura Badi Masjid area on April 7 after the death of 68-year-old man. Area between Government OBC Girls Students Hostel, Rachana Complex, Juna Motor Stand Chowk and Marwadi Chowk T-point was demarcated for micro plan. However, NMC faced resistance and was able to survey 7,000 houses out of some 13,000 in seven days under its door-to-door drive beside the containment in Takia Deewanshah. In first two days, some residents allegedly threw water, vegetables and gravel on NMC team members. “They are either refusing or giving incorrect details,” said officials. One of reasons for this has been rumours. Dr Sarfaraz Ahmed, who is assisting NMC health team in the drives, said initially people from Takia and Satranjipura were reluctant to believe the threat of coronavirus was real. “After one death and seven positive cases, they have started trusting the administration. Now, people are staying indoors,” he said. Dr Ahmed said misconceptions were compounded after some BAMS doctors made light of the disease. “These doctors too are in panic now,” he said. Apart from Dr Ahmed, NMC has engaged influential persons from the community to convince residents. On March 27, NMC initiated door-to-door survey at Satranjipura but here too it allegedly faced resistance. East Nagpur MLA Krishna Khopde told TOI, “People did not cooperate before the death of the 68-year-old. NMC should take stringent action as survey is very important to stop further spread of Covid-19. The survey will reveal if there are any more suspect or positive cases in the area,” he said Over 1,153 houses have been covered in door-to-door survey at Satranjipura as part of the citywide survey. Local police say they have observed people realizing the threat of the disease now. Senior inspector Jayesh Bhandarkar of Tehsil police station, which has jurisdiction over Mominpura, said people are cooperating now. “We have closed 27 lanes here and round-the-clock posting ensures most people remain inside the house,” he said. “Even during the Shab-e-Baraat people observed rituals inside their homes and no one stepped outside,” he said. Senior PI Narendra Hiware of Lakadganj police station said only essential services were allowed and no other movement was allowed for any reason. “Cops are manning each and every barricade here,” he said, adding 45 cops are deployed during day and 40 at night. Residents from Mominpura and Takia refuted allegations of non-cooperation. Zubair Kabeer, who lives in the lane next to the positive cap seller’s house, said unprecedented support has been extended by locals. “We are standing united with the government though Muslims are not so aware of the situation,” he said. On attacks on officials, Kabeer said, “Even if one is to believe there was an attack, will you believe Muslims attacked Muslim doctors? The NMC teams are accompanied by Muslim doctors and elders.” He said initially there was some resistance in giving details, assuming officials were census workers collecting NPR data, but no one resorted to violence. Mominpura resident Javed Ansari said every day police and NMC teams are being escorted by their volunteers. “We provide them sound system, refreshment and anything they need. It is not true that anyone threw anything at officials. This is intended to spread hatred. If anyone has been hurt, they must report to police immediately. We need to unitedly fight the virus and people are strictly staying indoors,” he said. Social worker Bijju Pande, who lives in Prabhag 21, which includes Satranjipura, blamed unchecked trading and movement of commercial vehicles for violation of lockdown. “People are cooperating here but traders are not following orders. Lot of non-essential items were traded under the garb of groceries. Shops remained open till 1am. Dry fruits, confectionary, incense sticks etc were all sold. The movement of vehicles in the day increases crowding all over,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/civic-body-involves-community-to-check-community-transmission/articleshow/75088752.cms||Anjaya Anparthi
April 11, 2020||Thiruvananthapuram||Forget disruptive tech, IT firms face disruption||Thiruvananthapuram: A young IT professional, who recently joined a multinational company in Technopark, was waiting for his six-month probation period to end to get deployed on a new project. Little did he know that the spread of the coronavirus pandemic would impact his company, which has now asked most of its probationary staff to quit. Before he could realize what was happening, he was back in a job market full of uncertainties. IT companies have now started handing out pink slips or announced salary cuts. The industry is bracing for a bumpy ride ahead. The spread of Covid-19 and the subsequent lockdown has forced companies to brush up on their contingency plans. “Overseas clients of some leading service-based IT firms in the state are among the worst affected. One example is the airline industry. With most flights grounded and the sector grinding to a standstill, IT firms working on projects for carriers are in deep trouble,” sources said. Travel and hospitality projects too are badly affected. “On the flip side, there is a boom in projects related to healthcare, life sciences and grocery retail,” they said. The situation is proving challenging with some clients demanding change of plans. A team from a Technopark-based company that was working on a project for the US-based real estate firm was made to add a new component – a virtual tour – so that ongoing restrictions won’t affect business. Senior executives of US-based firm Way.com expect the postcoronavirus scenario, itself, to drive disruption in the sector. Balagopal K S, senior director and head, India engineering centre of Way.com, said keeping multiple business verticals helps in managing disruptions. “We are market leaders in the US for booking parking lots. With restrictions in place due to Covid-19, this sector is witnessing a major slump. Meanwhile, there is leap in business in our other vertical – dining – as more people were opting for home delivery,” Balagopal said. Though internet connectivity and bandwidth issues were addressed by CM Pinarayi Vijayan, ahead of the lockdown, IT professionals opined that the very issues are affecting ‘work from home’ scenario thrown up by the crisis. However, an employee of an MNC working from home said there was no question of lesser productivity as the employees are working extra hours. “Now we have to be available for meetings or respond to mails at odd hours,” said an IT professional. Alexander Varghese, chief operating officer, UST Global, suggested technology intervention to manage issues of working from home. "With remote work comes less control. It is next to impossible for firms to manage and track everything that remote employees do. These aspects can be tackled with the help of technology," said Varghese.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/thiruvananthapuram/forget-disruptive-tech-it-firms-face-disruption/articleshow/75087168.cms||Jisha Surya
April 11, 2020||Lucknow||Gandhian’s sit-in for corona-hit labourers||Lucknow: Veteran Gandhian and civil rights activist Rajnath Sharma, 80, staged a day-long dharna on Friday at his Belhara House home in Barabanki to draw attention of the central and state governments towards poor socio-economic conditions of 43 crore labourers and workers in the wake of nationwide lockdown. Noted Gandhians and activists, including Medha Patkar, Ramchandra Guha, 102-year-old freedom fighter Durai Swami, 97-year-old G G Parikh and several personalities had given a call for a day-long dharna in support of the displaced labourers. Rajnath Sharma is chairman of Gandhi Jayanti Trust and has been leading a campaign for over 50 years for forging a confederation of India, Pakistan and Bangladesh as he feels socio-economic conditions of all three nations are similar. Talking to TOI, Sharma said, “Modi government’s sudden lockdown was ill-planned and did not give opportunity to the poor to store food or reach homes and they were trapped in chaos.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/gandhians-sit-in-for-corona-hit-labourers/articleshow/75089315.cms||---
April 11, 2020||Hyderabad||Manning clusters a challenge in Hyderabad||HYDERABAD: Despite barricading various entry points of several colonies in the Chandanagar containment cluster, policemen are facing an onerous task to curtail the movement of people in these areas. While policemen are stopping two-wheelers and four wheelers and allowing only those with valid reasons, people not using vehicles are finding different routes to venture out. Quite a few entry points in the area are unguarded, making it easy for people to move in and out. “There is no ration shop in our colony. What option do I have apart from stepping out of the colony,” questioned Mallareddy, a resident, who ventured out of containment cluster post noon. Md Shafi, a resident of one of the colonies in the Chandanagar zone, was spotted running a puncture shop near the Hafeezpet main road. He said that he was forced to run the shop to buy essentials. “Quite a few people are coming forward to donate rice. But I still have to earn money to buy pulses and vegetables,” said Shafi. He said that on Friday, he got only one customer until 3pm. “I have to feed a family of five,” he added. Another resident Vikas Saini, a painter, said that throughout the day people were seen moving out of the colonies. “While people can’t cross these barricades with vehicles, those walking can easily come out,” said Saini. Residents of these colonies said shops inside the barricaded areas have hiked prices of pulses and other essentials, forcing them to step out. “The rate of toor dal sold in the colony is Rs 30 to Rs 40 higher compared to that sold outside,” said Amjad Khan, a fruit vendor. Police personnel stationed at these areas said many are citing reasons like medical emergencies, lack of food and withdrawing money.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/cops-struggle-to-curtail-movement-in-hyd-zones/articleshow/75088743.cms||Nirupa Vatyam
April 11, 2020||Bhopal||Covid-19: Second doctor dies in Indore; city’s mortality rate 12%||INDORE: Another medical practitioner died of Covid-19 in Indore on Friday. The 65-year-old was among six deaths reported during the day, which took the city’s toll to 29. In a span of few hours, Indore’s mortality rate from Covid-19 shot up from 10% to 12% -- four times the national average. The city accounts for around half of MP’s 455 coronavirus cases, and 74% of its deaths. On Thursday, a doctor had died in Indore – the first medical practitioner in the state to be killed by the virus. Friday’s victim was a retired Ayush officer of Dhar district, about 70km from Indore. He practiced in Brahma Bagh Colony. “A 65-year-old private practitioner died because of Covid-19. We are gathering information on him,” said Indore chief medical and health officer Dr Praveen Jadia. The administration is trying to trace people who may have visited his clinic or come in contact with him. The doctor who died on Thursday had seen patients after testing negative twice for coronavirus. Three of the other deaths were mentioned in the MGM Medical College bulletin. A 52-year-old man from Satya Dev Nagar died in MY Hospital. He was admitted to hospital on April 6 and had chronic kidney disease. He died on April 8. There aren’t much details of the two other deaths mentioned in this bulletin. The other two deaths were reported at Gokuldas Hospital – men aged 65 and 70. They were from Pinjare Bangal and Juna Risala areas and were admitted to hospital on April 5-6. The younger of the two died on April 7, two days before he tested positive. The 70-year-old died on April 8, the day he tested positive. The details were released on Friday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/second-doc-dies-in-indore-citys-mortality-rate-12/articleshow/75088724.cms||---
April 11, 2020||Chennai||Tamil Nadu: Low supply leaves egg, mutton and fish dearer||CHENNAI: Acute shortage in production has pushed prices of egg to historic highs at Rs 7 apiece, while prices of mutton, fish and chicken too have risen sharply as supplies don't reach the markets. Cash-strapped poultry farmers are unable to feed the birds. Egg hub Namakkal that produces 4.5 crore eggs a day is now down to just 1.5-2 crore eggs daily. With slaughterhouses shut because of the lockdown – mutton is virtually not available in the markets, while fishermen are unable to venture out into the sea, resulting in shortages. Egg retailers in the city attribute a cut back in poultry feed as the main reason for the shortage in eggs. Sudevan Raghu, owner of PNR Eggs, said the chickens are induced to molting — a form of fasting — and hence, they don’t lay eggs. “We sell at Rs 4.50 an egg at a wholesale rate and retail rates are going up to Rs 7 an egg in the market, he added. Chennai consumes around 30 lakh eggs daily. Chicken prices are ruling at Rs 210 a kilogram. Etailer Fipola is selling eggs at Rs 49 for 6 eggs, up from Rs 39 ten days ago. Sushil Kanugolu, founder, Fipola, said, “Last month, the average was Rs 3.17 an egg and the high prices have dented the demand a bit.” “The farm gate prices right now are around Rs 4.50 per egg, more than double the Rs 1.95 it had gone down to last month due to the rumour that eggs cause coronavirus,” said P S Mohan, managing partner, Sri Devi Egg Traders, one of the biggest egg traders in Tamil Nadu. The resultant drop in demand and prices of eggs prompted farmers to start molting around 15-20% of the birds. “Currently, production is down 40%,” said Mohan. Online meat portal Tendercuts has run out of stocks. “There is no movement of goats from neighbouring cities or states and slaughterhouses are shut. So, there is no way one can procure meat,” said Nishanth Chandran, its founder. Some local retailers sell meat, but they are available at Rs 900-Rs 1,200 a kilo. “We fear that the stock with them may be too old for consumption. For the little meat that is available, there will be huge crowds and the prices are high, so we are keeping away to avoid risks,” added Sasi Kala, a resident of Virugambakkam. Only a fifth of the routine demand for fish and other seafood is now available. “They are priced by up to 20-40% higher,” added Chandran of Tendercuts.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/low-supply-leaves-egg-mutton-fish-dearer/articleshow/75088728.cms||Nandini Sen Gupta
April 11, 2020||Madurai||Weavers, textile owners seek support from govt||Madurai: With raw materials set to dry up if lockdown is extended, handloom weavers and textile owners are calling for financial support and benefits from the state and Centre to help them survive. Already suffering a decline over the years, many had to go for an alternative business like making dough and catering to survive. "Now we are in a situation where we fear we won’t be able to earn an income at all. The government is yet to provide any special allowance or monetary benefits exclusively for handloom weavers," said S Lakshmi, a weaver. Women weavers are used to turning to self-help groups for loans but now even such loans would not be affordable. Textile owners who are also facing the heat of lockdown are also seeking support from government. "From shortage of raw materials to dyeing units being shut, we are facing a double impact. Even the stock that has been kept ready cannot be sold. We can’t do anything but pray to God," said K T R Brahmam, a textile owner from Balarengapuram.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/weavers-textile-owners-seek-support-from-govt/articleshow/75089319.cms||---
April 11, 2020||Madurai||Pushed to brink, Saurashtra weavers fear lockdown extension will cripple business||Madurai: The lockdown would not have come at a worse time for the handloom weaving business which had been witnessing a gradual decline over the years in the district. With little yarn or ‘paavu’ left to weave and earn wages, when business would have usually peaked, the weavers are staring at losing even the little they earn. “We are thankful to have been able to continue working and get some income since the lockdown began. But if the lockdown is extended, we will be in deep trouble because the raw material (paavu) stock is fast running out,” said Raja G V, a weaver for over 30 years in Balarengapuram. Many weavers in the area, which is in the heart of the city, have their handloom machines inside their houses and the textile owners who provide raw materials are also relatively close by. However, the owners are as of now only providing paavu from the stock they had. Some of the handloom weavers hubs, mainly from the Saurashtra community, include Balarengapuram, Sakkimangalam, Vandiyur, Theppakulam and Kaithari Nagar, which has the largest number of weavers. “Some weavers are however unable to get the raw material because of transportation issues and places like Vandiyur are far from where textile owners are. In some areas, police are chasing weavers who try to set up their looms on the street,” said Srinivasan T, another weaver of over 40 years. The weavers are also unable to afford masks or gloves when working on the roadsides. They start early in the morning and try to wrap up by 10-11 am. The weavers already earn only a meagre income of Rs 6,000-8,000 a month depending on the type of paavu and product. It takes about 20-40 days depending on the speed of work to finish weaving saris out of one paavu. The raw materials have also become expensive. “Particular types of silk are hard to come by and its cost has doubled during the past few months. Already, the owners are splitting the paavu so as to keep us all busy equally and at a slower pace,” said Srinivasan. Textile owners meanwhile said they are trying their best to support the weaver community. "But, in reality, even we have been hit badly. Still, as far as possible, we try to pay money in advance for those in need. However, if lockdown is extended, we will not be able to procure raw materials at all and nothing will be in our hands," said Rajamurthy PK, owner of Jeyalakshmi Textiles.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/pushed-to-brink-saurashtra-weavers-fear-lockdown-extension-will-cripple-business/articleshow/75089321.cms||Sukshma Ramakrishnan
April 11, 2020||Nashik||Hospital wing converted into isolation ward now||Nashik: Nashik civil hospital authorities have converted the extension wing of the hospital into an isolation ward in view of the increase in the number of people with Covid-19 symptoms. Senior officials said that certain small wards and departments were functioning in parts of the 100-bed the wing, which was constructed during the Kumbh Mela. The number of patients suffering from general ailments have decreased, the complete building has been converted into an isolation ward, added the officials. Resident medical officer of Nashik civil hospital Anant Pawar said, “The existing isolation ward has only 18 beds. However, over the past few days, the flow of patients has increased. People with Covid 19-like symptoms are being admitted to the hospital. Two Covid-19 patients have also been admitted to the isolation ward. Hence, it was decided to put the Kumbh Mela extension wing of the hospital into use.” Pawar said that they have roped in seven medical officers from rural hospitals across the district to treat patients admitted to the new facility. On Thursday, 16 patients with symptoms of Covid-19 were admitted to the 18-bed isolation ward.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/hospital-wing-converted-into-isolation-ward-now/articleshow/75088149.cms||Santosh Sonawane
April 11, 2020||Amaravati||Lockdown intensified in several districts, Rs 1,000 fine could be slapped on violators||AMARAVATI: Determined to contain the spread of Covid-19, the state government has directed police chiefs in severely-hit districts to enforce stringent curbs on public movement. Following reports that people were taking social distancing lightly and still defying lockdown unnecessarily, the government asked superintendents of police and city police commissioners to launch a crackdown. The government is of the view that if the trend continues, it could spoil the yields gained so far. As a result, the police have decided to not allow even government staff to move on the streets after 10 am from Friday. In a few districts, special passes were issued to government employees. No one, including health wing official, will be allowed to move in areas other than the one assigned to them. “All government employees on Covid-19 duties have been directed to reach their respective offices before 10 am and leave the offices after 5 pm. No personal vehicle, including those belonging to employees, should be allowed on to the streets between 10 am-5 pm,” as per the directions issued to district collectors. However, official vehicles carrying staff and senior officers would be allowed to visit the containment zones. The period alloted for shopping of essential goods has been reduced in many districts, including Krishna and Guntur. People are allowed to visit the markets only between 6 am-9 am. Special chief secretary (health) Dr KS Jawahar Reddy took stock of the situation with senior officers, including the special officers, district collectors and SPs through a video conference on Friday and asked them to focus on Covid-19 hotspots. Although, the situation seems to be under control and returning to normalcy, the state government does not want to take any chance. The government has directed district collectors of Kurnool, Nellore, Guntur, Prakasam and Krishna to intensify surveillance in containment zones and restrict movement of public. The crackdown comes following the sudden surge of corona positive cases in Prakasam and Kurnool. Guntur city registered nearly 35 positive cases despite tracking and tracing of all the Delhi and foreign returnees’ since the initial days of the outbreak of the virus. Taking a serious note of the issue, Guntur district collector Samuel Anand Kumar issued special notification making wearing of masks mandatory in the city. A penalty of Rs 1,000 will be imposed if anyone were to be found in public places without a mask.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/amaravati/lockdown-intensified-in-several-districts-rs-1000-fine-could-be-slapped-on-violators/articleshow/75087184.cms||Samdani MN
April 11, 2020||Nagpur||Corporators taking food to the needy in their areas||Nagpur: Extending a helping hand during lockdown in the city, corporators from BJP, Congress and independents are distributing ration kits comprising rice, wheat flour, oil, sugar, spices, tea packet etc to the poor and daily wagers in their respective constituencies. Independent corporator Abha Pande distributed essential commodity kits to the poor and daily wagers in prabhag no. 21 in central Nagpur. “Each kit containing 15kg rice, 10kg wheat flour, 5kg tur dal, 2 litre cooking oil, 1kg sugar and half kg tea was distributed in Satranjipura area. Awareness programme was also held on the deadly disease and prevention measures. Residents were urged to stay indoors,” she said. Corporators like Pande also carried out survey to identify poor people. She shortlisted over 800 poor families that were deprived of their livelihood due to lockdown. The essential commodity kits have been distributed to more than 500 such families so far. Additional kits are being prepared for further distribution. Another such corporator is Praful Gudadhe from Congress. According to him, being close to MIDC Hingna and Butibori industrial estate, his prabhag is home to many daily wage workers. “Ever since the lockdown was imposed to contain the spread of Covid-19, many workers have had a tough time either in finding sufficient food or reaching their native place to escape starvation in cities. To make the lives of such people easier, initially I distributed rice to them. But now I am providing 500 food packets to the needy,” he said. Similarly, BJP corporator Narendra Borkar is providing cooked food to over 3,700 migrant labourers in his prabhag daily. He has hired cooks from a catering service for this purpose. Food packets are handed over to the labourers twice a day. Another senior Congress corporator Manoj Sangole is also distributing rice and grains to the poor and needy people in north Nagpur. Pande has procured four tanks and hired four men who spray disinfectant in her constituency twice a day. She has also distributed 300 masks and sanitisers to NMC’s sanitary workers. The elected representatives said that they will continue to help the poor and needy for a period of one to two more months, if needed.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/corporators-taking-food-to-the-needy-in-their-areas/articleshow/75088732.cms||Proshun Chakraborty
April 11, 2020||Kozhikode||Tigers under watch for coronavirus infection||KOZHIKODE: The state forest department has installed more camera traps in wildlife sanctuaries and national parks as part of its intensified monitoring of tigers for symptoms of Covid-19. The move comes in the wake of a four-year-old Malayan tiger, Nadia, of Bronx Zoo in New York, testing positive for the disease. Field officials of the Wayanad Wildlife Sanctuary (WWS), home to the largest number of tigers in the state, have been asked to install camera traps near waterbodies. The sanctuary is home to more than 80 of the state’s 190 tigers. Principal chief conservator of forests (wildlife) and chief wildlife warden Surendra Kumar said such cameras would help monitor tigers any possible symptoms. Additionally, people were being prevented from entering the core forest areas. Forest officials said camera-trap surveillance of waterholes would help assess the health status of the big cats “It is difficult to spot a tiger during field observation. We are setting up camera traps for monitoring the animals near waterholes as there are chances for the animal to frequent them if it is weak or running a temperature," B N Anjan Kumar, chief conservator of forest (wildlife- northern circle), said. He added that if a tiger was found frequenting the waterhole more than the normal frequency of once in two-three days, besides loitering there, then it would be monitored closely. “In WWS and Aralam Wildlife Sanctuary, we have deployed camera traps at few prominent locations and in Parambikulam Tiger Reserve, it will be done in a couple of days,” he added. The National Tiger Conservation Authority (NTCA) had issued an advisory asking chief wildlife wardens of all states with tiger population to observe for symptoms of coronavirus in the animals to avert the possibility of the big cats catching the virus. The NTCA advisory said tigers must be monitored directly and through camera traps for visible Covid-19-like symptoms, such as nasal discharge, coughing and laboured breathing. Incidentally, the death of 10-year-old tiger, code-named T-21, in Madhya Pradesh's Pench Tiger Reserve on April 4, sparked suspicion that the animal might have caught the virus. According to the tiger census, 2018, India has 2,967 tigers in the wild. The Central Zoo Authority, meanwhile, had asked the zoological parks in the country to be on high alert and monitor animals 24x7 using CCTV for any abnormal behavior/symptoms. The advisory also said that keepers and handlers should not be allowed near the animals without safety gear.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kozhikode/tigers-under-watch-for-coronavirus-infection/articleshow/75087203.cms||K R Rajeev
April 11, 2020||Kozhikode||Share info of patients with Covid symptoms, hosps told||Kannur: The district administration has strictly instructed private hospitals to share all details of patients coming with symptoms of Covid-19 and the treatment provided to them. This directive comes in the wake of a 71-year-old patient from Mahe testing positive, even though he has no history of having contact with anyone with Covid-19. There are also unconfirmed reports that he was sitting next to a senior citizen, who tested positive, in the fever clinic of a major hospital here. District collector T V Subhash, who asked the private hospitals to share the details, said there are complaints that some private hospitals are not willing to share details of patients who approached them with symptoms of Covid-19. As part of this, everyday the hospitals should hand over details of in-patients and outpatients via a prescribed Google Form and also email the details, said the collector. Moreover, the patients coming with symptoms of Covid should be admitted only after collecting a signed affidavit regarding their travel. Also, these details and the information of shifting them to another hospital should be communicated to the nearest PHC or the Covid control room. Further, if anyone in home isolation or those who have come back from abroad approaches the private hospitals for treatment, it should also be communicated to the district medical officer. If demanded, these hospitals should be ready to hand over details, including the CCTV footage from the hospital, too. Recently, there was some miscommunication regarding such patients from a major hospital. Health officials traced the possible sources of the infection of the elderly patient from Mahe, and tracked the hospitals he visited before testing positive. They also got indication that another patient, also an elederly who tested positive through contact, was at the fever clinic of a major hospital at the same time. However, it has not been officially confirmed, said DMO K Narayana Nayak. “We took a statement from that hospital, but they have denied the claim. They said that there is no possibility of this patient getting infected from there, but we are investigating the possibility,” he said. Health authorities expect private hospitals to be more responsible now, especially in the efforts to prevent any community spread, said the DMO.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kozhikode/share-info-of-patients-with-covid-symptoms-hosps-told/articleshow/75087212.cms||---
April 11, 2020||Chennai||SHRC seeks report on police excess during lockdown||Chennai: State Human Rights Commission (SHRC) has sought a report from the director general of police (DGP) on the excesses by police across the state while enforcing lockdown, based on a complaint filed by a final year student of Tamil Nadu law university. The complaint also pointed out that police themselves were not provided with adequate protective equipment, which can be seen from the videos circulating on social media. R S Aafreen, in her complaint stated that a few police officers are beating people on the roads without even asking them the reason for venturing out. A police officer assaulted a doctor and then went on to question why he did not inform earlier about his profession earlier, the complainant said, citing a video clip which went viral on social media and pointed out that it is one among several such incidents. The complainant also noted that many such incidents might have gone unnoticed. Terming the Epidemic Disease Act a colonial era legislation, the complainant pointed out that the Act was enacted by the British in 1897 to curtail the spread of plague. This law empowers governments to take extraordinary measures and the Act gives full protection to authorities even if they violate the law of the land in the name of ‘action taken in good faith’, said the complaint. Aafreen contended that there are several other humane methods by which police can implement the lockdown such as spot fines. “It is the responsibility of the police to come out with innovative humane methods to execute the lockdown. They need to strike a balance between executing the law as well as respecting the dignity of citizens,” she stated and added that a lot of efforts were put by legislators, judiciary and non-governmental institutions in the past seven decades to make police refrain from inhuman methods to execute the law. The complaint said the public are appreciative of the dedication of police but are equally worried about inhuman force by a few officers.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/shrc-seeks-report-on-police-excess-during-lockdown/articleshow/75088749.cms||---
April 11, 2020||Delhi||Thermal scan: Drones check people for fever in Delhi||NEW DELHI: The role of drones, which are being used extensively to keep an eye on people flouting the stay-at-home order or for spraying disinfectant, is likely to increase in battling the spread of novel coronavirus. A senior official from North Delhi Municipal Corporation said that a pilot project is being carried out to detect people with higher temperature with the help of unmanned aerial vehicles (UAV) equipped with thermal scanners. Delhi government’s health department is expected to consider scaling up and deployment of the drones in the coming days. “Infrared thermometers can check temperature of only one person at a time. The pilot project aims to do thermal scanning of a large population. While flying above roads and markets, the drone can catch temperature anomalies in the population below. If the temperature of the skin is above average, then an individual can be selected for additional screening,” the official said. The drone is equipped with thermal and night vision cameras, disinfectant tank, loudspeaker, spotlight and portable medical box. “The tank of the corona combat drone has a capacity of 10 litres. There is a small box in which we have put essentials and medicines. The drone can cover a straight road of 1.5-2km within 9-12 minutes,” the official explained. Another official said the drone can detect temperature variation from a height of 20 metres, which can help cover a large area within a short period. He added that in the initial phase, such drones could be deployed in containment zones and their buffer areas. Officials said once the lockdown was lifted, the technology could be used to identify early onset of novel coronavirus in people by detecting higher body temperature without any direct human intervention. “It will reduce the risk of checking staff getting infected, while also reducing the load of protective equipment used by them,” said the official. The drone companies and officials have been inspired by China where videos of UAVs monitoring temperature of people in Hubei and Hunan provinces and making public announcements to ensure lockdown have gone viral. Trial runs are being conducted in Telangana, Andhra Pradesh and by Trichy Municipal Corporation. The world over, drones have been deployed during the current pandemic for delivery of foods, medicines, essential items, making public announcements, monitoring curfews and spraying disinfectants.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/thermal-scan-drones-check-people-for-fever/articleshow/75088774.cms||Paras Singh
April 11, 2020||Vijayawada||Vijayawada: Man falls to death while escaping cops||VIJAYAWADA: Fearing that cops may thrash him for violating lockdown, 55-year-old Sheikh Jafar died on the spot after he accidentally fell inside a maize field at Rayapudi village of Thullur mandal in Guntur district on Friday. According to deputy superintendent of Thullur police Srinivas Reddy, the incident happened at around 11.30 am when Jafar was sitting with two other friends—Sambasiva Rao and Ayub Khan. “Uur sub-inspector Venkateswarlu and a constable Ramaiah received information that a group of children were playing cricket at a nearby school ground. Upon reaching the spot, the children noticed them and began running screaming ‘police’ which intimidated Jafar who then ran for his life on to the field,” Reddy told TOI. The constable inquired both Sambasiva Rao and Khan about their presence in the area and asked them to return home. “The constable then left and when Khan and Rao decided to check on Jafar, they found him lying unconscious with his tongue protruding out,” he added. The police were informed and reached the spot with a local doctor who pronounced him dead. The police then informed both of Jafar’s sonsabout his father’s demise.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/man-falls-to-death-while-escaping-cops/articleshow/75087191.cms||Ujwal Bommakanti
April 11, 2020||Goa||Beware of calls from ‘bank’, they could be phishers: Goa police||PANAJI: Goa police have warned the public about novel scams by online fraudsters who deploy phishing methods to illegally obtain personal data. Many of these scams, police say, use the RBI’s recent announcement on moratorium of three months on loans. The scam artistes call banks’ customers and, citing the RBI circular, get their account details. Speaking to TOI, SP (crime branch) Pankaj Kumar said that once phishers get the PIN and OTP (and other details) from unsuspecting users, these details are used either to withdraw money or use for online transactions. Kumar added that although no such case has been registered yet, police are taking the initiative of advising people to take precautions. On phishing works, police said, “It is the fraudulent practice of making phone calls or leaving voice messages purporting to be from reputable companies, specially banks or financial institutions, to induce individuals to reveal confidential information, such as bank details, or debit/credit card details”. The RBI, as a temporary relief in the light of the coronavirus pandemic and resultant lockdown, announced that banks can offer a three-month moratorium on all outstanding loans — home, personal, education and auto — and extend the repayment period by three months. In Goa, police have noted a lot of online frauds, and in many cases, women have been cheated under the pretext of marriage. Goa police have also registered other online fraud cases, such as the modus operandi of asking victims to deposit money in a bank account to release a gift confiscated by authorities at airports.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/beware-of-calls-from-bank-they-could-be-phishers-cops/articleshow/75089331.cms||---
April 11, 2020||Lucknow||‘Priority is health sector and welfare plans, business can wait’||LUCKNOW: As prospects of the 21-day national lockdown being extended loom large, industries and businesses have been asked to exercise patience as the government’s current priority are the health sector and social welfare schemes for the poor. In a web interaction between industry representatives and the government organised by FICCI on Friday, business owners raised several concerns, ranging from cash flow problems to unavailability of workers and movement of vehicles transporting essential goods. However, while the government has taken several steps already to provide some relief to the industries, principal secretary, industries, Alok Kumar has made it clear that with its own limited resources at present, the first priority for the government is the health sector, followed by social welfare programmes for the poor. However, among some steps taken already were waiver of dues for power across the state, and deferral of water charges and lease dues in Noida, Greater Noida and Yamuna Authority for three months. Sharad Jaipuria, CMD of Ginni International, said the immediate challenge for many companies was to get back migrant workers who had left for their home towns and villages. Pankaj Kumar, president of the Indian Industries Association, added that since harvesting of wheat has also started in villages, restarting industrial production was going to be a huge problem when the lockdown was lifted as there was no labour available. Mohit Anand, MD, Kellog India said: “The return of labour is essential if we want production to start.” Madhusudan Gopalan, MD and CEO, Proctor and Gamble Sough Asia, added: “Only about 20-25% workforce is available. In Goa, a circular was issued, asking workers in essential goods industries to return to work. UP should do something similar.” The other problem highlighted by the participants was the movement of vehicles. Saying that there was still no clarity on what had been included under “essential goods”, Gopalan said that if trucks and goods carriers were not carrying food items, they were being stopped. Ashish Kaul, Lucknow president of TiE, emphasised on the immediate need for cash flow to keep businesses running. “Waive or defer payment of fixed charges like electricity, wages while the government should also clear its dues to the industries,” he said. Putting forth the government’s stand, Kumar said the government would work on addressing all concerns raised by the industry but while maintaining essential supplies, the lockdown also had to be honoured and therefore, everyone’s vehicles and workers could not be allowed to start moving around. “The economic impact of the lockdown is being felt by the government as well, which has been receiving much less tax. Its commitment currently is towards the health sector and economic assistance to poor people. Waivers may be difficult as the government has to look at its own budgetary concerns,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/priority-is-health-sector-and-welfare-plans-biz-can-wait/articleshow/75089327.cms||Neha Lalchandani
April 11, 2020||Lucknow||Uttar Pradesh CM Yogi Adityanath transfers Rs 1,000 aid each to 4.81 lakh street vendors||LUCKNOW: Chief minister Yogi Adityanath escalated relief measures in the wake of lockdown following coronavirus pandemic by transferring Rs 1,000 each to over 4.81 lakh street vendors and rickshaw-pullers at the click of a mouse on Friday. Presiding over a video conference and meeting with the officials of urban development department, the chief minister said even before the lockdown was imposed, the state government had formed a committee under the chairmanship of UP finance minister Suresh Khanna to oversee rehabilitation of people whose livelihood was expected to be hit. Yogi also interacted with some street vendors assuring them that the government was standing firmly behind them in the time of crisis. The CM’s decision to provide financial relief of Rs 48 crore to street vendors through direct benefit transfer (DBT) comes two days after he ordered sealing of coronavirus hotspots in 15 districts to curtail spread of virus in the state. Terming financial aid a major initiative, Yogi said the state government was committed to providing relief to street vendors who were deprived of livelihood. Earlier, the state government had transferred Rs 1,000 each to the bank accounts of over 11 lakh construction workers, identified by various development authorities. They are besides over 20 lakh labourers registered with labour department. “We carried out a survey to identify beneficiaries. The state government has already cleared dues of 27 lakh out of 88 lakh labourers under Mahatma Gandhi National Rural Employment Guarantee Scheme (MNREGS). The government has already provided old age pension to 87 lakh beneficiaries,” the CM said. Principal secretary, urban development, Deepak Kumar told the CM that the department was taking help of railways, cantonment boards and corporators of various municipal bodies to identify street vendors who could be covered under the scheme. He said the process of identifying vendors would be taken ahead and more people would be covered. He said the street vendors who had been identified were from almost all important cities like Lucknow (20,000), Kanpur (25,000) and Agra (18,000). Kumar said inputs were taken from municipal commissioner and officials of nagar palika parishad and nagar panchayats. He added that a control room had been set up in every local body to keep a close watch on works like sanitization, cleaning operations, removal of silt, working of community kitchens and fogging operations. Sources said the department had also decided to rope in 60,000 vendors for doorstep delivery, especially in hotspots which have been sealed.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/cm-transfers-rs-1k-aid-each-to-4-81-lakh-street-vendors/articleshow/75089338.cms||Pankaj Shah
April 11, 2020||Hyderabad||Telangana Cabinet meet today, to decide on lockdown extension||HYDERABAD: The state cabinet is meeting on Saturday and likely to take a decision on extending the lockdown from April 14 till the month-end. The special cabinet meeting will also take stock of the prevailing situation due to the coronavirus pandemic and the spike in positive cases. Sources in the chief minister’s office (CMO) said Prime Minister Narendra Modi is likely to announce or at least indicate extending the national-level lockdown during his video-conference with chief ministers on Saturday morning. “If the Centre’s decision is delayed or if it is willing to ease the lockdown, the cabinet will discuss the matter at 3 pm and take a decision,” sources said. Officials pointed out that states like Odisha have already extended the lockdown till April 30 without waiting for Centre’s decision and the state government may go the Odisha way if there is no clarity from the Centre. On Friday, Punjab extended the lockdown till May 1. Chief minister K Chandrasekhar Rao had already announced that his government is in favour of extending the lockdown for at least two weeks. Health minister Eatala Rajender has also expressed similar views on extension and said the state would be free of coronavirus cases by the end of this month. “The government’s view is that lockdown should be lifted only if there are zero cases at least for a week,” a senior official of the government said. Officials said apart from the lockdown, the cabinet meeting would mainly discuss the financial situation. The CM will seek financial support from the Centre in the aftermath of the Covid-19 pandemic. The cabinet is also likely to take a decision on the academic calendar year, examinations for lower classes and SSC exams. Apart from reviewing measures for migrant workers, the government may announce measures for farmers who lost their crops.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/t-cabinet-meet-today-to-decide-on-lockdown-extension/articleshow/75088777.cms||Koride Mahesh
April 11, 2020||Nashik||Malegaon gets emergency centre after detection of 5 more cases||Nashik: Fearing the possibility of a greater number of coronavirus-positive cases in the densely populated Malegaon city, Nashik district collector Suraj Mandhare has set up an emergency operation centre (EOC) to acquire more halls for quarantine facilities in the town. The plan comes after five more positive Covid-19 patients were detected late on Thursday night, less than 24 hours after the textile town’s first set of five positive cases emerged on Wednesday. Of the first five positive cases in Malegaon, one had succumbed even before the test results were in. “Of the new patients, four are from already-contained areas of Malegaon and one is from Chandwad town in the neighbouring taluka. All the measures are in place to ensure extensive contact tracing for patients and their relatives,” the collector said. The new patients include a 62-year-old woman and three men in the 37-61 years age group. A 28-year-old youth from Chandwad town was also infected. A containment plan has been activated in the area prohibiting any movement of the people to and from the zone. Since the youth was not feeling well, he had visited two clinics of two different doctors before going to the Malegaon General Hospital, where he was finally tested positive. The two private doctors have been asked sanitise their clinics and their throat swabs have also been taken. The health teams are sanitising all the hot spots and throat swab samples of 62 persons have been taken. The EOC has been put in place exclusively for Malegaon town. It is headed by Malegaon additional collector Lakshman Raut. While he will be the overall in-charge, additional SP Sandeep Ghuge will be in charge of ensuring 100% lockdown and law and order. The administration has begun acquisition of halls and schools to set up more quarantine facilities. Nitin Kapadnis, Malegaon deputy commissioner, who is responsible for formulating a containment plan and acquire properties as per the EOC, said, “We have shifted 65 people to quarantine facilities because their homes were too small to properly follow social distancing rules. Apart from the Sheikh Dilwar Hall, where these people have been put up, we have acquired Badi Malegaon school (200 beds), Quereishi Jamaat Khana (40 beds) and Ansar Jamaat Khana (40 beds). The process to acquire SM Khalil school (100 beds) is in progress.” Nashik rural superintendent of police Arti Singh said: “Two drones would not only keep a watch on erring citizens and capture their footage, but would also be used as public address systems.” There are five hotspots in Malegaon where police personnel have been deployed to ensure the lockdown. The SP further said three platoons of State Reserve Police Force (SRPF) (100 personnel in each platoon) that were called for Shab-e-Barat bandobast, would remain deployed in the town. Malegao’s MIM MLA Mufti Mohammad Ismail has appealed to the people to stay indoors.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/malegaon-gets-emergency-centre-after-detection-of-5-more-cases/articleshow/75088173.cms||Abhilash Botekar
April 11, 2020||Nashik||Zonal committees to suggest measures on industrial operations||Nashik: The state labour department has set up three-member committees in every division across Maharashtra for suggesting measures to start operations of industries, factories and construction work by following the social distancing norm. The committees need to submit the report by April 13. They have asked all the stake-holders to submit their suggestions. All recommendations made will be incorporated in the report of the committees. The all-India 21-day lockdown, announced by Prime Minister Narendra Modi, is ending on April 14. Hence, state government is working on what measures needed to be taken in case the lockdown is lifted. “The state labour department has set up committees at zone level asking to submit reports about measures or suggestions to start industries and other establishments,” an official from an industrial safety and health department said. “We have asked all industrial associations in Nashik zone to give their suggestions in this regard. Their suggestions are to be incorporated in the report,” he added. The Nashik zone includes four districts of North Maharashtra – Nashik, Dhule, Jalgaon and Nandurbar. “We have asked our members to drop their suggestions on the official email address of the association. We will forward all our suggestions to the state zone committee,” said Shashikant Jadhav, president, Nashik Industries & Manufacturers’ Association (NIMA).||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/zonal-committees-to-suggest-measures-on-industrial-operations/articleshow/75088181.cms||Tushar Pawar
April 11, 2020||Vijayawada||Tirupati MLA joins sanitation workers in disinfection drive||TIRUPATI: City MLA Bhumana Karunakar Reddy on Friday joined hands with sanitation workers engaged in sterilising areas marked as ‘red zone’ and shifting garbage out of the city. In spite of the fixed number of health workers on duty, the concentrated focus has led to shortage of manpower. Karunakar Reddy, dressed in khaki attire and a face mask, got down to shifting garbage by pulling trolleys loaded with trash bins at various localities in the city. He also assisted workers in spraying disinfectants into the drains and on roadside. “It is time we shun social differences and reach out to the frontline warriors in a bid to collectively stamp out the virus,” he told TOI. He also moved swiftly to three or four localities across the constituency to help sanitation workers tackle the increased workload. On the change in his attire, Karunakar Reddy explained that his appearance in a white shirt would only distance the workers from him and hence the khaki. “The virus knows no difference between an MLA and a health worker. Everyone has to follow safety precautions and maintain hygiene,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/mla-joins-sanitation-workers-in-disinfection-drive/articleshow/75087205.cms||Sandeep Raghavan
April 11, 2020||Nagpur||Crackdown against forest criminals||Nagpur: The Kalmeshwar range forest officer (RFO) Sushila Naukarkar arrested three persons for igniting fire in a tiger-bearing forest area near Linga-Ladai villages. Over 6 hectares of reserve forest area in compartment number 192, which has recorded presence of wild animals including tigers, was destroyed in the ground fire ignited to clean the area so that it becomes convenient to collect mahua flowers. The accused have been identified as farm labourers Kashirao Salam, Ajay Masram, and Rahul Ramteke, all from Ladai. In the second case, Hingna forest officials have arrested 8 accused for trespassing in Ambazari reserve forest with an intention to do illegal fishing. This is the second incident in six days. On April 4, two accused were held. Nagpur CCF P Kalyan Kumar said, “Ambazari is vulnerable to forest fires as it is primarily a grassland ecosystem. These arrests will deter such forest criminals from venturing in the forest.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/crackdown-against-forest-criminals/articleshow/75088764.cms||---
April 11, 2020||Madurai||Small relief for banana farmers as Batlagundu market opens||Madurai: The horticulture department has granted permission for the Batlagundu banana market in Dindigul district to function from Friday. While the officials have taken steps to help the farmers market their produce, the banana farmers are in distress and are facing a huge loss due to the lack of demand. Deputy director of horticulture Dindigul district, K Srinivasan, told TOI that there are four commission shops at the banana market functioning at Batlagundu. The one which functions on Mondays and Fridays was closed following the lockdown.  “We organized a meeting with the traders and decided to open the Batlagundu banana market from Friday. We had asked the shops in the market to initially procure banana cultivated in Dindigul and distribute it to the traders within the district. The market would be functional on Mondays, Wednesdays and Fridays,” he said. M Joyston, who owns a commission shop at the market, said the vehicles of traders were also given permission to operate till 1 pm. Usually, the shops in the market would procure bananas from various districts including Dindigul, Theni, Erode and Trichy which would be sold to traders of Dindigul, Theni, Ramanathapuram and Madurai. However, now they are procuring only from Dindigul. “We would usually procure thousands of banana tars from the farmers and distribute them to the traders. However, today we had procured only 400 tars. These tars which used to be sold for Rs 250 to 300 now fetch less than half the price,” Joyston said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/small-relief-for-banana-farmers-as-batlagundu-market-opens/articleshow/75088767.cms||Kaushik Kannan
April 11, 2020||Dehradun||2 dozen houses gutted, 8 animals killed in Uttarkashi fire||Uttarkashi: More than two dozen houses were gutted and half a dozen cattle died in a massive fire that broke out in Masri village of Mori block in Uttarkashi district on Friday afternoon. Rescue teams sent by the administration managed to douse the flames and start relief work in the affected area. According to sources, it took nearly two hours to put out the fire. As many as 26 houses were completely destroyed while eight were partially damaged. Although no human lives were lost, eight farm animals died.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/2-dozen-houses-gutted-8-animals-killed-in-uttarkashi-fire/articleshow/75088180.cms||Abhyudaya Kotnala
April 11, 2020||Mumbai||Violation of prohibitory orders: 6,800 booked, Rs 26L netted in fines in Maharashtra in just 48 hours||MUMBAI: A total 34,285 cases have been registered across the state for violation of prohibitory orders from March 20 to April 9. Police have also seized 18,995 non-essential, non-emergency vehicles and collected Rs 1.2 crore in fines since the shutdown was imposed on March 20. According to a report compiled by the state police, 6,783 of the total cases were registered and Rs 26 lakh collected in fines in 48 hours —April 8 and 9. Police, across the state, have been registering cases, seizing vehicles and arresting people who violate the prohibitory orders imposed under CrPC Section 188. Violation of Section 188 attracts up to six months’ jail or up to Rs 1,000 fine or both . Pune registered the maximum cases (4,317), followed by Ahmednagar (3,215). Mumbai is seventh on the list with 2,205 cases. Despite the lockdown, several motorists have been found on roads in Mumbai and Thane. On Thursday, nearly 130 such incidents were reported and 162 vehicles detained by the Thane traffic police. P 4||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/6800-booked-rs-26l-netted-in-fines-in-maha-in-just-48-hours/articleshow/75089333.cms||Shrutika Sukhi
April 11, 2020||Bhubaneswar||Aparajita dividing time between books, state issues & family||Bhubaneswar: The ongoing lockdown has come as a boon for Bhubaneswar MP Aparajita Sarangi. It’s been a while that she had spent enough time with family. The break has given her that opportunity and more. At the same time, she is busy looking into the issues relating to her constituency as well as Odisha. Currently in New Delhi after flights were cancelled in the aftermath of the Covid-19 outbreak, Aparajita spends at least three hours a day reading. “Currently, I am reading ‘21 Lessons For The 21st Century’ by Yuval Noah Harari, ‘The Power Of The Heart’ by Baptist De Pape and ‘Imaging Odisha’,” Aparajita said, adding, “I also read out from ‘Speeches That Changed The World’ to my children.” Her day starts with a 90-minute intense workout, up from the usual one hour. She also makes it a point to prepare one new dish for the family every day. “My children and husband are very happy that I am spending more time with them. They love the aloo parathas, burgers, fish cutlets and Chinese food prepared by me. I have also cooked pithas,” said Aparajita. She is also pursuing her interest in interior decoration and uses her home to try her passion. Most importantly, Aparajita feels these trying times have given her time to reflect, think and meditate a lot. “I feel I am more connected with my inner self. My inner strength is increasing,” she said. Aparajita spends nearly six to eight hours every day at her residential office as she reaches out to people in her constituency and state. She has also spoken to the district collectors in Andhra Pradesh, Telangana, Kerala, Gujarat, Maharashtra, Uttar Pradesh, Karnataka and New Delhi so that food and shelter are provided to the stranded Odias in those places.  “I speak to at least 50 people every day, both in my constituency and other parts of the state, to sort out the problems they are facing during the lockdown,” Aparajita said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhubaneswar/aparajita-dividing-time-between-books-state-issues-family/articleshow/75087242.cms||Arunika Mohapatra
April 11, 2020||Nagpur||Kamptee Cantt restricts entry to main gate, 3 hrs only every morning, evening||Nagpur: All the minor roads providing access to Kamptee cantonment have been sealed, leaving only the main entry from Nagpur-Kamptee Road open. The cantonment board has dug trenches on the roads, preventing movement of vehicles in and out of the area. Even the movement of individuals has been restricted to three hours every morning and evening, that too only three days in a week. The cantonment here also has civilians living in the British time bungalows in the Mall Road. The movement restrictions have led to resentment among the civilians living here. An official in the cantonment board said that the entry and exit has now been restricted to Monday, Wednesday and Friday. In the morning the timings to go out have been fixed from 7 to 10am, and 4 to 7pm in the evening. The rule will apply for supply of essential items too, added a source. The officer said the cantonment board has the powers to exercise such restrictions. The decision came as a surprise to many residents, who took to social media to comment against the move. One of the tweets by Kamptee Cant Nagrik Mandal says, “Public roads are closed by army, no facilities, daily need items are provided to civilians. is kamptee a hotspot.” An army source said the move was to prevent illegal entry through the minor, internal roads. Digging a trench will prevent even two-wheelers from entering, said a resident. Another resident, however, questioned the logic of digging up the road, saying that simply putting up barriers or deploying guards could also have worked.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/kamptee-cantt-restricts-entry-to-main-gate-3-hrs-only-every-morning-evening/articleshow/75073633.cms||Shishir Arya
April 11, 2020||Madurai||2 arrested for derogatory posts against PM Modi||Madurai: The Ramanathapuram police on Friday arrested two people who had posted a video containing derogatory remarks against Prime Minister Narendra Modi on social media. According to sources, a few days back the video of a woman making derogatory comments about the Prime Minister for his announcement of the lockdown went viral on social media. The woman was later identified as Nainar Fathima, a resident of Pasipattinam in Ramanathapuram district. Two men Seeni, 47, and Ibrahim, 43, from the same area were also found involved in the making of the video. Based on a complaint given by the village administrative officer Renuka, the S P Pattinam police registered a case against the trio and arrested Seeni and Ibrahim. A case was registered against them under sections 504, 505(1)(b) of the IPC and under Section 67 of the Information Technology Act.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/2-arrested-for-derogatory-posts-against-pm-modi/articleshow/75088772.cms||---
April 11, 2020||Goa||No zatras, processions or feasts: MHA reminds Goa||PANAJI: Any religious gathering like zatras, feasts or any congregations will not be permitted in the state in the month of April, the ministry of home affairs (MHA) has directed the state government. Union home secretary, Ajay Bhalla in a letter to chief secretary, Parimal Rai, said that the chief secretary should refer to the consolidated guidelines on the lockdown measures to be taken by various ministries and departments of the government of India, state and union territory governments and state and union territory authorities for containment of COVID-19 epidemic in the country, as notified by MHA. Bhalla drew attention to clauses 9 and 10 of the ‘Consolidated Guidelines on lockdown measures’ under which, no religious congregations will be permitted without any exception and all social, cultural, religious functions or gatherings will be barred. “In view of the ensuing festivals in the month of April 2020, you are requested to ensure strict compliance of lock down measures and not allow any social, religious gatherings, processions,” the MHA letter states. Bhalla also stated that district authorities and field agencies should be informed of specific prohibitions as mentioned in the letter and officials should take all precautionary measures to maintain law and order. In a related cautionary measure, the letter also stated that social media should be monitored to ensure no objectionable content is circulated.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/no-zatras-processions-or-feasts-mha-reminds-state/articleshow/75089339.cms||---
April 11, 2020||Vijayawada||Two more test positive in Anantapur district||TIRUPATI: Two more Covid-19 positive cases were reported in Anantapur district on Friday morning, taking the overall number of cases of people testing positive for coronavirus cases to 15 in the district. According to the district medical and health department, a 56-year-old patient from Kothacheruvu in Anantapur district tested positive for the novel coronavirus on Friday. The district administration has initiated measures to isolate all his family members and others who came in contact with him. A nurse who treated a 58-year-old Covid-19 patient, who died while undergoing treatment on April 4, has tested positive for the novel coronavirus on Friday. Earlier, two doctors, two paramedic staff and two family members of the deceased patient, had tested positive for Covid-19 on April 8. In Kurnool district, two more patients tested positive for Covid-19, taking the overall number in the district to 77. According to the district medical and health department, while 70 people had tested negative, two patients who were primary contacts of people who attended the Delhi Jamaat meet, tested positive for coronavirus on Friday. The cases were detected at Kurnool urban and Atmakur town. Meanwhile, state finance minister Buggana Rajendranath and others reviewed Anantapur district’s Covid-19 preparedness, on Friday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/two-more-test-positive-in-anantapur-district/articleshow/75087217.cms||Sandeep Raghavan
April 11, 2020||Vijayawada||Vijayawada police chief visits Covid-19 red zone||VIJAYAWADA: Vijayawada police commissioner Ch Dwaraka Tirumala Rao inspected Old Rajarajeswaripet area which is deemed ‘red zone’ in the city with several number of Covid-19 cases on Friday. Addressing the media, Tirumala Rao said there were 25 coronavirus positive cases in the city. These cases have been reported in Vidhyadharapuram, Old Rajarajeswaripet, Ranigarithota, Khuddus Nagar, Payakapuram and Sanat Nagar, which were declared as red zones. “The district collector and the municipal commissioner are providing all the essential supplies to the residents’ doorstep especially, in the red zones. We urge the public to not step out of their homes,” Tirumala Rao said. “As far as the red zoned areas are concerned, there are special committees set up with the local sub-inspector and revenue officials being involved. Prior permissions have to be taken if there is a large distribution of these essential commodities being planned. If prior permissions aren’t taken then action would be taken against them,” Rao said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/police-chief-visits-covid-19-red-zone/articleshow/75087238.cms||---
April 11, 2020||Nagpur||Choukse finishes 51km run without stepping out of home||Nagpur: With the government giving signals of extending the lockdown, city runner Atul Choukse came up with a novel idea to spread the message of adhering to the ‘Laxman Rekha’. On Friday, the Nagpur-based ultra-marathoner completed a 51-km run, without stepping outside his home! “Since the lockdown, almost everything on television is about Covid-19. Watching the developments, I was worried like others. It got me thinking; shouldn’t I do something to help the society in these tough times? That’s when I came up with the idea of a run within the boundary wall of my house. I decided to go for a run inside to encourage people to follow the lockdown seriously,” Choukse told TOI. Like most bright ideas, the ‘lockdown home run’ was born in the bathroom. “It was only yesterday that the idea struck me. Yeah, it happened during a loo break,” said Choukse sounding a bit abashed. On Friday morning, Choukse started his ‘home run’ at 6.30am. By the time his fitness watch ticked 51km, with most of the distance run on the terrace of his house, it was 1.55pm. “There are two grounds just next to my house in Chandan Nagar. I could have easily done this 51km run there. But I wanted to encourage people to adhere to the idea of ‘Laxman Rekha’ proposed by our PM Narendra Modi. To contain the outbreak of coronavirus, people must stay inside their homes,” said Choukse, who runs a computer institute. Choukse, the founder of Nagpur Runners Academy, is dismayed that people aren’t taking social distancing and lockdown seriously. “Each day I saw a few people doing morning exercise on the grounds next to my house. I wanted to show them that it’s not necessary to step out of home to maintain your fitness levels.” “If I can run a distance of 51km inside my house then others can surely go about their fitness regime without stepping out,” said Choukse, who has completed the 251km Marathon des Sables. Popularly known as Sahara Desert run, it is considered the world’s toughest ultra-marathon. The long-distance runner was overwhelmed with the support he got during the Friday run. “I started my run early in the morning. Soon, people started gathering on terraces of adjacent houses. They started clapping and encouraged me. Also, my wife Nikita supported me throughout the run.” Running for social causes is nothing new for Choukse. Last year, he ran from Nagpur to Pachmarhi, a distance of 333km, to spread awareness about government’s ‘Padhega India tabhi to badhega India’ initiative.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/choukse-finishes-51km-run-without-stepping-out-of-home/articleshow/75088789.cms||---
April 11, 2020||Thiruvananthapuram||Govt move to engage US firm dubious: Cong||Thiruvananthapuram: Opposition leader Ramesh Chennithala has termed as ‘dubious’ the decision of the state government to engage a US firm to collect personal health details of citizens, in the name of maintaining details of those under home quarantine and susceptible to Covid-19 as well as senior citizens. Chennithala said that it is suspicious as to why the task has been entrusted to Sprinklr, when the task can easily be undertaken by C-DIT or IT Mission, which are directly under the government’s control. He said ward-level committees of the government are collecting data from the field and updating it directly on to the portal created by the firm for the purpose. Chennithala said this data is not being uploaded to a government website. However, the firm is using the government logo, which should not be allowed, he said. The opposition leader said the firm is collecting valuable health details, including pre-existing ailments. Such details are maintained by countries the world over as protected information. What is the guarantee that the company will not use the data being collected for commercial purposes, Chennithala asked, adding that the government should publicize the terms and conditions of the agreement with the company. He asked if the government had floated any tender to select the company, and questioned why the chief minister who claims to explain all the matters in detail, did not reveal about such a company collecting the data. Chennithala said IT secretary M Sivasankar, who is also the secretary in the chief minister’s office, has appeared in the television advertisement regarding the data collection by the company and this deepens the mystery behind the deal.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/thiruvananthapuram/govt-move-to-engage-us-firm-dubious-cong/articleshow/75087236.cms||---
April 11, 2020||Madurai||‘Don’t hand over relief materials directly to beneficiaries’||Madurai: Tirunelveli district administration has asked philanthropists and politicians not to directly hand over relief materials such as food or vegetables to beneficiaries directly and it would attract action for violating section 144.In a statement, district collector Shilpa Prabhakar Satish said the government is taking several steps to ensure the availability of essential commodities and vegetables. Since Covid-19 is highly contagious and spreads through sneezing and coughing, relief materials should not be given to the beneficiaries directly. They may be handed over to the offices set up for this or at the concerned taluk offices.People willing to donate relief materials should register their names by contacting the toll free number 1077 and also mention the kind of relief materials to be distributed. The donated materials would be distributed to the needy by officials and volunteers selected for the purpose.Meanwhile, staff working in commercial department of southern railway, Madurai division, distributed 130 grocery kits to the needy at Madurai, Dindigul, Kovilpatti and Tirunelveli on Friday. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/dont-hand-over-relief-materials-directly-to-beneficiaries/articleshow/75088768.cms||---
April 11, 2020||Lucknow||Pollution norms eased for PPE units||Lucknow: Lending a thrust to units engaged in manufacture of masks, gloves, personal protective equipment (PPE) and sanitizers, UP Pollution Control Board (UPPCB) has decided to ease expansion norms in wake of the coronavirus pandemic. UPPCB chairman J P S Rathore said, these units can get immediate approval to expand and raise productivity by applying online. The board, in a circular issued on Friday, said after the covid-19 outbreak, availability of life-saving medical equipment, oxygen cylinders has to be ensured and this would require largescale production in short time. “For ensuring quick supply of PPEs and life-saving equipment in time of an extraordinary health emergency, industrial units manufacturing medical equipment and oxygen cylinders can apply on ‘niveshmitra’ portal for consent to operate and manufacture at expanded capacity, while complying with standards of emission and effluents as provided in Environment (Protection) Act, 1986,” the order stated.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/pollution-norms-eased-for-ppe-units/articleshow/75089345.cms||---
April 11, 2020||Vijayawada||Pricey and sour, say buyers of season’s first mangoes||VIJAYAWADA: A few varieties of mango have hit the markets in Andhra Pradesh, including Visakhapatnam and Vijayawada. But consumers are complaining that they are sour. The price of Banganapalle and Panukulu mangoes range from Rs 120 to Rs 150 per kg in the vegetable markets. But a majority of the consumers are opting for oranges and grapes, which are available at Rs 70 to Rs 90 per kg. Compared to last year, the arrival of mangoes in the market was delayed this year due to delay in flowering, erratic weather conditions and ongoing lockdown. “Tempted to buy after spotting Banginapalle mangoes in the market, we purchased two kgs at Rs 250. But they are really sour,” said N Ramesh Kumar, a buyer. A few traders are selling the Rasalu variety but they too are not sweet and juicy, he added. Like Ramesh Kumar, many consumers complained that they are avoiding buying mangoes because of the price and taste. A buyer alleged that the fruit is being picked even before it was fully mature and hence the sourness. At present, most of the traders are selling Banginapalle and Panukulu whereas the availability of the remaining varieties of the mangoes is low, he added. Officials at the horticulture department said they are estimating that AP may produce around 50 to 60 lakh metric tonnes of mangoes this season. The quantity of export depends on various factors. They said mango lovers will have to wait a couple of weeks to get the best quality of Suvarnarekha, Rasalu and Banginapalle. In this Covid-19 crisis, oranges and other fruits, which contain vitamin-C is better than mangoes. “Moreover, we are suspicious about the ripening methods used for the mangoes, so we eating more oranges than mangoes,” said Kavita B, a housewife.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/pricey-and-sour-say-buyers-of-seasons-first-mangoes/articleshow/75087252.cms||---
April 11, 2020||Mumbai||Airlines ground rivalry, give wings to light ribbing on Twitter||Mumbai: While coronavirus may have brought about social distancing, on Friday, it got rival airlines together on social media where they engaged in light banter over lost business and ribbed one another about staying grounded to stay safe. It all began when the youngest of the lot, Vistara, was picked on with a bully tweet by biggie IndiGo over the lockdown. “Hey @airvistara, not #flyinghigher these days we heard? #Staying Parked Staying Sage #LetsIndiGo”. ‘Fly Higher’ is an extension of Vistara’s tagline 'Fly the New Feeling’ and so Vistara responded in kind, patching together a tweet borrowed from IndiGo’s tagline, but not without displaying a ‘limitless expanse’ (the Sanskrit meaning of the word Vistara) of magnanimity towards its rival. “No @IndiGo6E, these days being on-ground is a wonderful thing. Flying would not be the ‘smart’ choice, what say @goairlinesindia?” it said, tagging another player. At least on Twitter, the past seems to have been relegated to the past as only a few years ago, Federation of Indian Airlines, an airline lobby group comprising IndiGo, SpiceJet and GoAir, had moved court against grant of licence to Vistara and AirAsia. They couldn’t clip the two airlines’ wings though. In recent years, Vistara has been trying to be a member of FIA but it was turned down twice. Responding to Vistara, GoAir tweeted: “Staying home is the safe feeling!” and tagged AirAsia, which put out a red, hot, spicy response tagging SpiceJet. It went back to AirAsia with a “been a while since this bird flew out of her cage” and tagged Delhi airport. It responded too. The conversation was taken forward by other bigwig airports such as Bengaluru, Hyderabad and Mumbai. The airlines’ posts saw retweets and ‘likes’ soar to the skies. Early this year, airlines and airports had tweeted sweet nothings to one another on February 14—Valentine’s Day—when unbeknownst to them the virus was slowly making its way to India. A few days ago, Mumbai police had set the trend rolling with an ode to Hindi cinema after actor Alia Bhatt tweeted her gratitude and love for them. Police responded with a tweet worded around names of films Bhatt has starred in. That was enough for Twitterati who took it forward with more wordplay on film names, turning it into a riot the police approved of.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/airlines-ground-rivalry-give-wings-to-light-ribbing-on-twitter/articleshow/75088212.cms||---
April 11, 2020||Delhi||Delhi: Covid-19 +ve man violates lockdown, village sealed||NEW DELHI: Deenpur village near Chhawla in southwest Delhi has been declared the capital’s latest containment zone after a resident infected by the novel coronavirus violated home quarantine norms and interacted with several other people in the locality. The person, a politician, is also charged with hiding information about this visit to the Alami Markaz Banglewali Masjid in Nizamuddin for the Tablighi Jamaat congregation in March. He has reportedly infected two other members of his family. Police have registered an FIR under the Indian Penal Code dealing with violation of public order and under the Epidemic Diseases Act. Cases under Section 188 of IPC (Disobedience to order duly promulgated by public servant) and the Epidemic Act invite a jail term of six months and a fine of not less than Rs 1,000. The person had been placed in quarantine in his residence under the Chhawla police station by the health authorities. During physical verification of home-quarantined persons recently, he was found absent from his residence. "Earlier, during questioning, he hid the facts about his travel and movements. After analysing his call detail records and through physical enquiry, we determined that he had been at the Jamaat meeting in Nizamuddin,” said DCP Dwarka Anto Alphonse. “But even during the repeated medical and police enquiries, he did not disclose these facts to the authorities.” Two of his family members have tested positive for the coronavirus and his irresponsible behaviour has jeopardised the health of the local community. As a fallout, the affected area was declared a containment zone. "Dwarka district police has been diligently enforcing the lockdown and home quarantine to contain the spread of infection. Comprehensive surveillance and information gathering through physical verification and technical monitoring are being ensured,” Alphonse said. Meanwhile, Delhi Police has booked 200 people across the city in the past 24 hours for violating home quarantine. The highest violations were in southwest Delhi with 39 bookings, followed by 36 in Dwarka, 30 in central Delhi, 22 in east Delhi and 14 in northwest Delhi. The cops are keeping track of the mobile phones of infected people ordered to observe home quarantine after being treated at a hospital to ascertain whether they are following the directive not to move out of their houses. Apart from this, markers have been stationed outside their homes to stop visitors. The cops are being assisted by the Special Cell and Special Branch in monitoring the locations of the quarantined people’s mobile phones throughout the day to detect contraventions. Their family members have also been warned about breaching the norms. Police said criminal cases are likely to be registered against any quarantined person found outside his or her residence.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/covid-ve-man-violates-lockdown-village-sealed/articleshow/75088796.cms||---
April 11, 2020||Goa||Goa: CCP workers report to work, but yet to be paid||PANAJI: Even as the state government asks the private sector to pay full wages to employees, nearly 500 employees of the Corporation of the City of Panaji (CCP) have yet to receive their salaries since the lockdown was announced to contain the ongoing corona virus pandemic. Sources said, while all CCP employees, especially the sanitation workers, have been asked to report to duty, the accounting department staff has remained absent. In their absence, officials said that the process to clear the salaries has got stuck. “The accountant and the accounts taxation officer are on deputation with CCP and they received their salaries from their line department. The remaining staff has not got their salaries,” said a CCP worker. Mayor Uday Madkaikar confirmed that CCP employees had yet to get their wages. “The department accountants did not come to work since it was initially announced that till April 14 all offices would be closed. The CCP commissioner has issued an order and called them to work on Monday, so hopefully the salaries will be released by Tuesday,” he said. Most of the 500 CCP staff are involved in sanitation, door-to-door garbage collection and other tasks considered essential for the state’s capital. Many of these workers are contract labourers who depend on the wages to meet their daily requirements, said a CCP official. A day earlier, chief minister Pramod Sawant met with industry representatives where he urged the private sector to ensure that employees are not denied their wages during the lockdown, despite industrial units remaining shut during the period.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/ccp-workers-report-to-work-but-yet-to-be-paid/articleshow/75089348.cms||Newton Sequeira
April 11, 2020||Nagpur||MSEDCL ignores committee report, gets stick from MERC||Nagpur: MSEDCL’s failure to act on recommendations of Vishwas Pathak Committee report led to it being censured by the Maharashtra Electricity Regulatory Commission (MERC) for inflating power consumption of farm pumps. MSEDCL has been doing this to artificially reduce distribution losses. The then energy minister Chandrashekhar Bawankule during BJP rule in state had constituted a committee under Pathak, the then director of MSEB Holding Company, to estimate farm pump power consumption. The committee submitted its report in 2018 based on the study done by Indian Institute of Technology (IIT), Powai. However, no action was taken on the report. The report had recommended that MSEDCL calculate farm pump power consumption as per method suggested by IIT experts. Discom officials continued to use the existing method. Following large scale complaints from consumer activists, MERC set up a working group to estimate agricultural consumption accurately. The group in its report stated that agricultural consumption had been inflated and MSEDCL’s distribution loss was 5.8% more than that claimed by it. MERC also noted that MSEDCL had collected excess subsidy from state government. The government pays subsidy to MSEDCL for every unit supplied to farm pumps. TOI had sent an e-mail to MSEDCL seeking reasons for not implementing Pathak’s report. No response was received despite repeated reminders. The committee had recommended that the same method of calculation as adopted by IIT for agricultural consumption should be used till the desired level is achieved by MSEDCL. “As there is huge load enhancement done without actual verification during 2011 to 2013, the actual load at site in terms of HP (by measuring current and power factor at site) should be rectified thereby ensuring correct billing hereafter,” the report stated. “Initially to start with, MSEDCL should consider estimation of agriculture consumption by capping agriculture sale based on input to agricultural separated feeder from substation less average low tension (LT) loss of the said circle after segregation of LT and high tension (HT) loss. In case of agriculture dominated feeders, the agricultural sales can be estimated as input to such feeders less average LT loss of the said circle less metered sale of other consumers if any on the said feeder. This appears to be a relatively reliable method in present circumstances as one step ahead toward reforms and can be implemented forthwith,” the report further states. The report further states, “Billing of agricultural consumers on the basis of distribution transformer (DTC) reading should be started as phase one of reform. Energy consumption recorded on a particular DTC can be proportionately (based on sanctioned load of each consumer) divided amongst all the agricultural consumers having supply of power from the said DTC.” “Low efficiency and low power factor of the agriculture pumps and in low Power Factor in MSEDCL distribution system are the two major areas needs to be attended urgently so as to reduce the losses due to wastage of power. Possibility of making it compulsory to install energy efficient pump sets for new consumers can also be explored,” Pathak further recommended. RECOMMENDATIONS OF THE COMMITTEE Estimate farm pump power consumption as suggested by IIT, Powai Bill farmers on the basis of distribution transformer reading Increase power factor of farm pumps and MSEDCL system Implement a KYC drive for agricultural consumers Launch new amnesty scheme for such consumers Take concrete steps to reduce power theft in state||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/msedcl-ignores-committee-report-gets-stick-from-merc/articleshow/75088783.cms||Ashish Roy
April 11, 2020||Nagpur||After 17 days in isolation ward, 5th +ve patient discharged||Nagpur: The city’s 5th Covid-19 positive patient — a businessman from Khamla — was discharged on Friday, 17 days after being admitted to the isolation ward of IGGMCH (Mayo). Test result show that all five patients have completely recovered from the virus. Saying that he returned from the doors of death, the businessman told TOI, “My manager and I boarded S-4 bogie of Telangana Express on March 17. The bogie was jampacked with around 125 people, most of who were from a particular community. We may have got infected in the train as we were in Karol Bagh and Shastri Nagar area of Delhi for just five hours.” Thanking his uncle and doctors of Mayo Hospital, the businessman added, “I am diabetic since 13 years. My mother too is diabetic and also has high blood pressure. My wife and son have no illnesses. Four of us were in one ward with beds at 10 feet distance. We never went close to each other and used to talk from our beds.” The businessman has cleaned and disinfected his entire residential building on his own. “Now all of us will strictly follow a 14-day home quarantine regime,” he said. Four close contacts, including two of his family members (wife and son), are likely to be discharged on Saturday. The others are his manager and assistant. His mother, daughter of manager and assistant are likely to get discharge on Sunday along with another +ve member from a residential complex near Gandhisagar lake. The businessman returned to Nagpur on March 18 and went to his shop till March 21. “I had fever on March 22. In two days all my four family members too fell ill. I panicked and on my uncle advice went to Mayo Hospital on March 25,” he said. He also said, “I had lot of problems due to diabetes. I had regular vomiting on 4th day, body pains and tested negative on 7th day. I never gave up and left everything with my God.” He said, “I appeal to all to stay at home and be safe. I don’t want anyone to face hospital quarantine for 14 days as it is a very difficult thing to undergo. Doctors of Mayo Hospital are best and treated all of us well.” Deputy medical superintendent Dr Sagar Pande said that the businessman responded well to treatment. “His reports of 14th and 15th day were negative and hence he was discharged. If treatment stars early, treatment can be successful,” he said. This case saw 11 positive patients including the businessman. The assistant’s elder brother, wife and son also tested positive and are undergoing treatment at GMCH. Of the total 25 cases from the city, only one — a 68-year-old from Satranjipura Badi Masjid area — died and he tested positive after death.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/after-17-days-in-isolation-ward-5th-ve-patient-discharged/articleshow/75088782.cms||Anjaya Anparthi
April 11, 2020||Ahmedabad||Covid-19 tests in industrial districts skewed||Ahmedabad: A highly industrialized state like Gujarat, when looking at a phased opening of the lockdown in future, faces a major challenge. Many industrial districts, including those we call the Golden Corridor, of the state are yet to mobilise Covid-19 testing to gauge whether large population, including labour, can consider it safe to return to the factories and whether it will be safe for population when movement takes place. While Ahmedabad has begun random vigorous testing of its population with 2,067 Covid-19 tests, it also led to discovery of a cluster of aysmptomatic cases. A similar situation in other district will throw open a whole new box of challenges. In Valsad district with a population of 18 lakh which has the Vapi industrial town only 54 were tested and just 7 people were under quarantine. In Vadodara district which has 42 lakh population, with 15 industrial areas only 599 tests performed out of which six Covid deaths were reported mainly from city and already 2,500 are under quarantine — the highest in the state. In many districts including the tribal districts and industrial districts the number of those quarantined and the number of tests performed, are highly skewed. The number of tests performed in districts like Amreli, Kehda, Kutch, Rajkot, Jamnagar and Valsad, which have high industrial clusters have fairly low testing per lakh population. Kutch district, which has a population of 21 lakh, has 13 industrial estates, has performed just 54 tests of which four tested positive but 2,225 people are under quarantine, which is the second highest in the state after Vadodara. Neighbouring Amreli district which has 7,085 industrial units registered have performed just 20 Covid19 tests, there are no Covid positives but interestingly, 1,189 people are under quarantine. Jamnagar, which has the world's largest petroleum refinery, has conducted 103 Covid19 tests of which only 1 has turned positive and 328 have been quarantine.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/covid-19-tests-in-industrial-districts-skewed/articleshow/75088791.cms||Paul John
April 11, 2020||Mysuru||Contract employees refuse to work at Covid Hospital fearing infection||Milton.lawrence@timesgroup.com/TNN Mysuru: District administration leading the fight against Covid-19 in the district are facing an uphill struggle pooling in staffers especially paramedics and group ‘D’ employees in the battle against the pandemic. According to the authorities, nearly 50% of the staffers, a majority of them group ‘D’ employees — providing sanitation, nursing, security, para medical, and patient care services — are contract employees and have expressed unwillingness to continue with their work in the wake of rising number of Covid-19 cases in the district fearing infection. Recently, several employees engaged in cleaning and sanitation at the Mysuru Medical College and Research Institute (MMCRI), when directed to work at the Covid Hospital on KRS Road, threatened to quit their jobs. Admitting the challenges, MMCRI dean and director CP Nanjaraj said: “Some of our group ‘D’ employees have expressed unwillingness to work at the Covid Hospital, but we have been deputing staffers regularly as it’s a medical emergency. We are ensuring that our staffers extend all assistance to the health department.” “Of the total 240 group ‘D’ employees at the KR Hospital, nearly 90% are on contract or outsourced. Many of them do not have vehicles to commute to work in the absence of public transport, while others fear contracting infection if they continue to work here,” disclosed an official. “Health department officials are trying their best by deputing staffers on payroll. As of now we’re managing with what we have, but we are not sure about the situation in future,” an officer explained. Speaking to TOI, district health officer Dr Venkatesh said, “All workers of health department — whether on contract or on payroll — have to work at assigned place. Besides, they cannot refuse to work during an emergency like this. Though we have several workers on contract here, we haven’t encountered any difficulty so far. But, we have to remain cautious with rising number of positive cases in the district.” Currently, 41 patients undergoing treatment for coronavirus infection at the 250-bed Covid Hospital.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mysuru/contract-employees-refuse-to-work-at-covid-hospital-fearing-infection/articleshow/75087246.cms||---
April 11, 2020||Bhubaneswar||37 Covid-19 cases in city cause of concern||Bhubaneswar: With 37 of state’s total 48 Covid-19 positive cases, Bhubaneswar remains the biggest concern area in the fight against the virus in Odisha so far. Within the city, Bomikhal has emerged as the hotspot. Of the six new positive cases detected on Thursday, three are from Jharpada, all kin of the 72-year-old man, who died of Covid-19 on Monday. It includes a 37-year-old woman and two girls aged nine and five of the same family. The other cases include a 20-year-old man from Kalahandi, the second from the district, besides one from Dhenkanal and a West Bengal native admitted to KIMS. The Jharpada locality where these cases were reported is in the buffer zone of Bomikhal containment area that has reported 14 cases. According to Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) guidelines, buffer zone is the area within 5 km radius of the containment area where surveillance is suggested. Satyanagar, which is also a containment zone having four positive cases, three of which are linked to Bomikhal, is also in the buffer zone of Bomikhal area. While the health department has said there is link of the cases between Bomikhal and Satyanagar, it is still tracing contacts in the case of Jharpada family. Health secretary Nikunja Bihari Dhal said the health department has continued door-to-door survey in Bomikhal besides other containment zones such as Suryanagar, Sundarpada, Kapilprasad-Jadupur to detect possible symptoms. “While all those with symptoms are being tested, we are also testing willing people without symptoms at random to find out possible spread. The testing will be intensified because the capability to test samples will go up within the next few days,” Dhal said. Health department sources said nearly 30% of the total samples tested in Odisha are from Bhubaneswar. As on April 8 when 2,841 samples had been tested, 818 were from Bhubaneswar. A government statement said up to 9 am on Friday, 3,249 samples had been tested, 48 of which were positive. From among the 45 active cases, two patients in Odisha are on ventilator support. As many as 113 persons are under hospital isolation.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhubaneswar/37-covid-19-cases-in-city-cause-of-concern/articleshow/75087259.cms||---
April 11, 2020||Thiruvananthapuram||Kerala seeks pandemic bonds to bail out economy||Thiruvananthapuram: After finance minister TM Thomas Isaac said that Kerala’s perilous fiscal position cannot endure the fiscal stress arising out of Covid-19 situation, chief minister Pinarayi Vijayan wrote a letter to Prime Minister Narendra Modi suggesting ‘pandemic bonds’ as a quick remedy to help all states overcome their immediate fiscal crisis. In his letter, Vijayan said public finances of all states, including Kerala, are in a perilous position as all revenue generating sectors have come to a standstill. Pointing out that the burden of tackling public health emergency and ensuring a social safety net for the vulnerable sections is the responsibility of the state government (in the fight against Coronavirus), Vijayan told Modi that market conditions are unfavourable for states to look at open market for fund mobilization. He asked Modi to give permission to all state governments to issue ‘special pandemic relief bonds’, which RBI may be requested to buy at a coupon rate below 5%. Vijayan repeated the state’s demand for raising the borrowing ceiling of states from 3% of GDP to 5%. Isaac mooted the idea of pandemic relief bonds in the wake of state selling bonds worth Rs 6,000 crore in the open market on April 7 at a high interest rate (8.96%). "Normally we give 7-8% interest on borrowings. We could afford it because our annual growth rate was 11-12%. Such a proportion would not lead us to a debt trap. But, things are changing now. Since our economic growth rate is about to dip, the borrowing at higher interest rate would wreck our fiscal condition," Isaac said in a Facebook post, justifying his call for more borrowing options. However, though everybody knows the present unprecedented crisis, not many are ready to buy his theory that the state economy management was in good hands before Covid-19 situation. MLA VD Satheesan claimed FM was eyeing an opportunity during crisis created by Covid-19. The state had recently signed agreements for foreign funds (borrowing) worth over Rs 17,000 crore, following floods in two consecutive years. This is over and above the huge sums KIIFB sources from international agencies for infrastructure development. "Financial mismanagement has reached its zenith. Government had to restrict the operations of treasuries to disburse salary and pension for the past seven months. Over Rs 3000 crore in tax arrears are due from jewellers and state could collect only Rs 300 crore," he said. The gravity of mismanagement will be known when one comes to know that government diverted the first instalment of Rs 1,780 crore it received from World Bank for Rebuild Kerala initiative for its daily needs, including disbursing salaries and pensions. Instead of doing its job, government is running after quick remedies, he said. Economist BA Prakash said the economy is heading for an unprecedented crisis. "State need to buckle up and find more options to source funds. The impact of lockdown could be devastating as almost all revenue generating sectors are shut," he said, adding that the present crisis doesn’t justify the callous financial management of state. But, economist Mary George justified government’s move and said it was quite natural for states to seek help from Centre to tide over crises just like the current one created by a pandemic.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/thiruvananthapuram/state-seeks-pandemic-bonds-to-bail-out-economy/articleshow/75087269.cms||B S Anilkumar
April 11, 2020||Lucknow||Uttar Pradesh gets 15,000 kits to speed up Covid-19 testing||LUCKNOW: At a time when testing is being considered as the arsenal to combat coronavirus, Bill and Melinda Gates Foundation (BMGF) has provided 15,000 testing kits to Uttar Pradesh after an arrangement between NITI Aayog, Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) and Temasek Foundation. BMGF has also provided 15,000 kits to Bihar. Replying to a TOI query, NITI Aayog CEO Amitabh Kant said: “ICMR has validated the kits which are ‘all-in-one’ RT-PCR (real time polymerase chain reaction) test kit for detection of coronavirus (SARS-CoV-2-RNA) through the use of upper and lower respiratory samples.” This means that the kit comes with all necessary reagents to undertake the test. “Manufactured by Singapore-based company, Accelerate Tech, the kit has received provisional authorization for clinical use from Singapore Health Sciences Authority (HSA). The kits will help in building testing capacity in states,” Kant said. Secretary, UP health department, Hekali Zhimomi said: “The state government received 30,000 kits which included 15,000 for Bihar. Those meant for Bihar have already been dispatched.” After receiving the kits, principal secretary, health and family welfare (Bihar) Sanjay Kumar wrote on his twitter handle: “Our sincere thanks to BMGF for providing the state 15,000 testing kits for Covid-19. It shall be made available to our labs on requirement.” In-charge of infectious disease unit at King George’s Medical University (KGMU) Dr D Himanshu said: “Though 15,000 may not appear to be a huge number considering that UP is undertaking 1,200-odd tests a day but their availability at this crucial time will help in understanding the progression of the disease and plan for future management.” Data on increasing cases support Dr Himanshu’s logic. In UP, the total number of cases in UP reached 431 on Friday (at 4 pm) against just 116 on April 1.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/state-gets-15000-kits-to-speed-up-covid-testing/articleshow/75089347.cms||Shailvee Sharda
April 11, 2020||Bhubaneswar||Health min seeks HCQ, Vit-C from Centre||Bhubaneswar: Health minister Naba Kishore Das on Friday asked Union health minister Harsh Vardhan to ensure enough supply of hydroxychloroquine (HCQ) and Vitamin C tablets to the state. Raising the matter during a video-conferencing meeting of state health ministers with Harsh Vardhan, Das said, “Vitamin C should be administered to all to boost immunity. Suspected patients under quarantine should take a daily dose of Vitamin C. HCQ is being used as a medicine for treatment of Covid-19 patients”. Das also demanded early supply of at least five lakh personal protective equipment. “PPEs are important for our frontline health professionals. I hope the HLL will deliver it soon,” he said. He also demanded a Covid-19 hospital to be run by AIIMS Bhubaneswar at its satellite campus in Balasore. Das said he also asked the Union minister to start testing facilities in each district headquarters hospital and enhance testing capacity at the existing centres. Currently, tests for Covid-19 are being done at Regional Medical Research Centre (350 sample capacity per day), AIIMS (75) and SCB Medical College and Hospital, Cuttack (50). RMRC has installed COBAS platform, a more automated way of testing, which will increase its capacity to 1,000 by April 16. The government is set to start testing at MKCG Medical College and Hospital Berhampur (25 samples per day) on April 13. Testing at VSS Institute of Medical Sciences and Research Sambalpur (25 per day) will start on April 15. On Thursday evening, around 4,000 testing kits were airlifted from Mumbai via a special cargo plane. The kits consist of tests, reagents and viral transport mediums (VTMS) needed for the process, according to a government statement. The minister said demands were made for more number of ventilators and ICU facilities. “We also demanded for more N-95 masks, uninterrupted supply of other life-saving drugs not related to corona,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhubaneswar/health-min-seeks-hcq-vit-c-from-centre/articleshow/75087265.cms||---
April 11, 2020||Nashik||Govind Nagar: Housing society chiefs to take care of vegetable demand||Nashik: Housing societies in containment area of Manohar Nagar in Govind Nagar will get weekly basket of vegetable delivered at their door-step. A WhatsApp group of chairpersons of housing societies in the containment area is being created where they will place their orders for their respective housing society for the entire week. The vegetable will be provided by the grape growers association. A decision to this effect was taken the municipal commissioner Radhakrishna Game after a meeting with police officers and group of farmers. The Nashik Municipal Corporation (NMC) has sealed the Govind Nagar area for 14 days (from Tuesday) after a resident from Sumangal housing society was tested Covid-19 positive. All roads leading towards the area have also been blocked with barricades. A civic official said the objective is to cater vegetable in the form of weekly vegetable basket. “The group of farmers concerned will deliver vegetable at the doorstep. Those delivering vegetable will be provided with personal protection kit as part of precautionary measures,” he said. “Numbers of around 50 chairpersons of housing societies in the area has been added to the WhatsApp group. They will have to place the order on behalf of every family residing in the society before 12 noon and the vegetable will be delivered the next day. We will ensure that the order will be enough to last for a week,” the official added. Meanwhile, NMC’s health department continued its door-to-door survey on the fourth consecutive day on Friday in the containment areas. A total of 22 teams, comprising three members each, have been deployed to conduct the survey.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/govind-nagar-housing-society-chiefs-to-take-care-of-vegetable-demand/articleshow/75088216.cms||Tushar Pawar
April 11, 2020||Thiruvananthapuram||Seven new Covid cases on Friday, 27 test negative||Thiruvananthapuram: As many as 124 Covid-19 patients have recovered in Kerala since the first case was reported on January 30. On Friday, 27 people tested negative and 17 of them were from Kasaragod (eight under treatment in Kannur), a designated hotspot in state. The other negative cases were: six in Kannur, two in Kozhikode (one person from Kasaragod), one each from Ernakulam and Thrissur. Also, seven more persons tested positive for Covid-19, taking the total reported positive cases in state to 364. Three cases were in Kasaragod and two cases each were in Kannur and Malappuram. As of now, 238 persons are undergoing treatment. The number of people under observation has also come down in state. At present 1,29,751 persons are placed under surveillance, of which 1,29,021 are in home isolation and 730 are admitted at designated isolation facilities. Till date, 13,339 samples of suspect cases were sent for testing, of which 12,335 tested negative. Only six districts are having over 10,000 persons under surveillance. They are Thrissur, Palakkad, Malappuram, Kozhikode, Wayanad and Kasaragod. Of this, Kozhikode is having more number of people under surveillance (17,824) followed by Palakkad (16,825) and Thrissur (15,193). The lesser numbers are in Kottayam (2585), Ernakulam (2,977) and Idukki (4,372). Health department issued a statement reminding that Covid care centres have been established in all districts with a view to accommodate people who have been advised home isolation but have no residence in the state. The idea is to also accommodate persons in home isolation who don’t follow home isolation guidelines. These centres will also accommodate Keralite returning from various states in the country. It further said that any person with travel history to Covid-19-affected countries or person with contact with such a traveller, whether they are having symptoms or not, must remain in home isolation.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/thiruvananthapuram/seven-new-covid-cases-on-friday-27-test-negative/articleshow/75087273.cms||---
April 11, 2020||Kochi||Observation camps closed in Palakkad||Palakkad: The observation centres for Covid-19 at Government Victoria College hostel and the KTDC hotel in Malampuzha were closed down. Five out of the 7 patients had tested negative and will be released from hospital shortly. The health condition of two persons who had tested positive in the second test is stable, said district medical officer. The last positive patient is a 65-year-old man from Kavilpad who travelled by Kerala Express to Gujarat, Nagpur and Raipur and returned to Palakkad on March 21. The 41 travellers of Kanyakumari-Dibrugarh Express train who were housed in Victoria College students’ hotel and 81 in the Cherpulassery Medical College completed their observation period and were sent back home. Salem Homoeo Medical College’s 16 students under observation were also sent back home. The total number of people under observation on Thursday in the district was 17,510; 31 in district hospital; 3 each in Ottapalam and Mannarkkad taluk hospitals,sources said.tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/observation-camps-closed-in-palakkad/articleshow/75071778.cms||---
April 11, 2020||Pune||IPS officer who okayed Wadhawans’ trip sent on leave||MUMBAI/PUNE: A day after the Wadhawans’ trip to Mahabaleshwar in violation of the lockdown became public, the state government on Friday sent IPS officer Amitabh Gupta, who issued the letter allowing the travel, on forced leave and ordered a probe. Home minister Anil Deshmukh asked additional chief secretary Manoj Saunik to complete the departmental probe in 15 days. Kapil Wadhawan and his brother Dheeraj (Baba Dewan), promoters of Dewan Housing Finance Ltd (DHFL), were found travelling with their families and retainers though a special court had issued a non-bailable arrest warrant against the siblings, out on bail in a money laundering case, on March 17 in a CBI case. There was also a lookout circular against the brothers to prevent them from fleeing the country. Gupta, principal secretary (special) in the home department, was unavailable for comment, but has reportedly admitted his ‘mistake’. On Friday, the CBI asked the Satara collector and SP not to release Kapil and Dheeraj without a no-objection certificate from the investigators or the court and to ensure they don’t escape. The 24-member group is in a quarantine home in Panchgani and earlier in the day, Satara police filed an FIR against the group for violating various sections of the IPC and Disaster Management Act. Five cars used by the group have been seized and they are parked at the Wai police station near Mahabaleshwar. Senior officials claimed Gupta told his seniors that a wrong draft of his authority letter was sent out by his office. A second letter circulated on Friday didn’t mention that the people travelling were “well known to me as they were family friends”. Gupta’s permission letter, signed by him, had named the 24 persons and given registration details of their vehicles. It added: “This is just to inform you that the following are well known to me as they are my family friends and travelling from Khandala to Mahabaleshwar for a family emergency...” It sought cooperation to help them reach their destination. The family with bodyguards faced protests from locals when they reached Mahabaleshwar on Wednesday, and were taken to the quarantine facility. Satara collector Shekhar Singh said all 24 have tested negative for Covid-19 and appealed to local residents not to panic. Dheeraj and Kapil Wadhawan are accused in a money laundering case involving the late drug smuggler Iqbal Mirchi. They are also named in criminal cases involving Yes Bank founder Rana Kapoor. Before the lockdown, the CBI had searched Wadhawan premises at different locations, including Mahabaleshwar, to question them in a case linked to Kapoor, but in vain. After that, they had approached the court and got the warrant. The Enforcement Directorate (ED) and CBI are investigating the Wadhawans in two separate cases registered against Kapoor. In one, it is alleged that Yes Bank, then headed by Kapoor, gave Rs 4,500 crore as loan to the DHFL group. In lieu, DHFL paid Rs 600 crore as kickbacks to Kapoor in the form of a loan to his daughter’s company. In the second case, provident funds of the Utter Pradesh Power Corporation Ltd employees were invested in DHFL, which is alleged to have diverted it into shell companies. In Mumbai, BJP leader Kirit Somaiya on Friday demanded that Anil Deshmukh should resign. “This would not have happened without the knowledge of the Pawar family. The relationship between the Pawars and the Wadhawans is well known. Sending Gupta on leave is merely window dressing. Deshmukh should resign,” said Somaiya, also seeking disciplinary and criminal action against Gupta. Describing Somaiya as a nuisance maker, Deshmukh said the state has initiated action against Gupta. “We are all aware that an IPS officer can be suspended only by the Centre. Somaiya should ask the Centre to suspend Gupta,” the minister added. Congress spokesperson Sachin Sawant said the Wadhawan group has been key donors for BJP. “Wadhwan’s company Privilege High-Tech developing Vijaydurga port in which BJP MP and close aide of Modiji R. Chandrashekhar is a partner. Hence false pretence of @KiritSomaiya won’t work,” he said in a tweet.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/ips-officer-in-state-who-okayed-wadhawans-trip-sent-on-leave/articleshow/75090616.cms||Vijay V Singh
April 11, 2020||Mumbai||IPS officer who okayed Wadhawans’ trip sent on leave||MUMBAI/PUNE: A day after the Wadhawans’ trip to Mahabaleshwar in violation of the lockdown became public, the state government on Friday sent IPS officer Amitabh Gupta, who issued the letter allowing the travel, on forced leave and ordered a probe. Home minister Anil Deshmukh asked additional chief secretary Manoj Saunik to complete the departmental probe in 15 days. Kapil Wadhawan and his brother Dheeraj (Baba Dewan), promoters of Dewan Housing Finance Ltd (DHFL), were found travelling with their families and retainers though a special court had issued a non-bailable arrest warrant against the siblings, out on bail in a money laundering case, on March 17 in a CBI case. There was also a lookout circular against the brothers to prevent them from fleeing the country. Gupta, principal secretary (special) in the home department, was unavailable for comment, but has reportedly admitted his ‘mistake’. On Friday, the CBI asked the Satara collector and SP not to release Kapil and Dheeraj without a no-objection certificate from the investigators or the court and to ensure they don’t escape. The 24-member group is in a quarantine home in Panchgani and earlier in the day, Satara police filed an FIR against the group for violating various sections of the IPC and Disaster Management Act. Five cars used by the group have been seized and they are parked at the Wai police station near Mahabaleshwar. Senior officials claimed Gupta told his seniors that a wrong draft of his authority letter was sent out by his office. A second letter circulated on Friday didn’t mention that the people travelling were “well known to me as they were family friends”. Gupta’s permission letter, signed by him, had named the 24 persons and given registration details of their vehicles. It added: “This is just to inform you that the following are well known to me as they are my family friends and travelling from Khandala to Mahabaleshwar for a family emergency...” It sought cooperation to help them reach their destination. The family with bodyguards faced protests from locals when they reached Mahabaleshwar on Wednesday, and were taken to the quarantine facility. Satara collector Shekhar Singh said all 24 have tested negative for Covid-19 and appealed to local residents not to panic. Dheeraj and Kapil Wadhawan are accused in a money laundering case involving the late drug smuggler Iqbal Mirchi. They are also named in criminal cases involving Yes Bank founder Rana Kapoor. Before the lockdown, the CBI had searched Wadhawan premises at different locations, including Mahabaleshwar, to question them in a case linked to Kapoor, but in vain. After that, they had approached the court and got the warrant. The Enforcement Directorate (ED) and CBI are investigating the Wadhawans in two separate cases registered against Kapoor. In one, it is alleged that Yes Bank, then headed by Kapoor, gave Rs 4,500 crore as loan to the DHFL group. In lieu, DHFL paid Rs 600 crore as kickbacks to Kapoor in the form of a loan to his daughter’s company. In the second case, provident funds of the Utter Pradesh Power Corporation Ltd employees were invested in DHFL, which is alleged to have diverted it into shell companies. In Mumbai, BJP leader Kirit Somaiya on Friday demanded that Anil Deshmukh should resign. “This would not have happened without the knowledge of the Pawar family. The relationship between the Pawars and the Wadhawans is well known. Sending Gupta on leave is merely window dressing. Deshmukh should resign,” said Somaiya, also seeking disciplinary and criminal action against Gupta. Describing Somaiya as a nuisance maker, Deshmukh said the state has initiated action against Gupta. “We are all aware that an IPS officer can be suspended only by the Centre. Somaiya should ask the Centre to suspend Gupta,” the minister added. Congress spokesperson Sachin Sawant said the Wadhawan group has been key donors for BJP. “Wadhwan’s company Privilege High-Tech developing Vijaydurga port in which BJP MP and close aide of Modiji R. Chandrashekhar is a partner. Hence false pretence of @KiritSomaiya won’t work,” he said in a tweet.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/ips-officer-in-state-who-okayed-wadhawans-trip-sent-on-leave/articleshow/75089346.cms||Vijay V Singh
April 11, 2020||Kochi||Police give a ‘corona twist’ to Shastri’s tracer bullet punchline||KOCHI: Ravi Shastri’s commentary punch line – Kohli drives through the covers and it’s into the fence, like a tracer bullet’ was picked by the social media team of Kerala Police for an awareness video that went viral on social media and caught the attention of the India Coach himself on Twitter. The video shows lockdown violators running in all directions on seeing a police drone with Shastri's voice in the background. "Very innovative. Good luck #Tracerbulletchallenge #Indiafightscorona #Covid," Ravi Shastri wrote after retweeting the police video on drone sightings. The cell is active just like their personnel who are on the streets to fight Covid-19. State police have been uploading videos every other day to spread awareness and boost public confidence. Another video titled ‘Kerala Police Vs Covid-19’, replicated a scene similar from iconic serial, Mahabharat, where good and evil fight each other with bows and arrows. The video shows a policeman, wearing a Kerala Police T-shirt and donning a golden crown, fighting Covid-19, represented by the villain, who wears a crown with two horns on it. In the theatrical video, the villain showers arrows with the virus on its head while the policeman sends sanitizer and lockdown arrows, defeating him. The latest video, posted on Friday, shows a compilation of individual videos from its sports team members training at their home and urging people to stay healthy. Another shows kids at police quarters dressed as doctors and policemen forming a circle around a commoner to represent the protection provided by the government. Apart from theatrical videos, police had also posted factual videos, explaining the disease and the necessity of lockdown. Some others highlight the good works done by the police. Earlier, the video of personnel dancing to a song to explain the proper way to wash hands had gone viral globally. Kerala police is active on Instagram, Twitter, Facebook, YouTube and even Tiktok.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/police-give-a-corona-twist-to-shastris-tracer-bullet-punchline/articleshow/75087300.cms||---
April 11, 2020||Bhubaneswar||Odisha: Churches go digital on Good Friday||BHUBANESWAR: Several churches across the state resorted to live streaming of prayers that marked Good Friday as congregation is restricted due to the lockdown. As part of this new-age celebration, the priests and pastors went to the churches and led the worship, which was recorded and streamed live on different social media platforms, including YouTube. “We respect the government’s decision to maintain social distancing. The churches are closed for almost a month now,” Paresh Das, general secretary, Church of Christ (Union Church), said. He said technology has evolved and it is time to make the most of it. “Nowadays, everybody has a smartphone and access to social media platforms. Not only for today’s celebration but also we are regularly recording the prayers and streaming it on the social media platforms every Sunday,” Das said. There are more than 100 churches in the city and all of them have been shut since March 15 in compliance with the government’s order.  “We are going through a very tough time, but we need to maintain calm and pray to the lord to save us. The church has come up with a very unique idea to live stream the prayers and we all are in support of this,” Anil Minz, a resident of Nayapalli, said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhubaneswar/churches-go-digital-on-good-friday/articleshow/75087284.cms||Sandip Mishra
April 11, 2020||Nashik||Markaz attendee, family picked up; quarantined||Nashik: The Ahmednagar administration on Friday picked-up a Nizamuddin Markaz attendee and his 12 family members from their residence in Pathardi taluka. All 13 of them have been quarantined at Ahmednagar civil hospital. Their swab samples would be collected and sent for medical examination. District collector Rahul Dwivedi told TOI that the attendee after returning home from the religious congregation did not inform the relevant authorities. “After the administration came to know about the attendee and his family, they were picked up,” said Dwivedi. The local authorities at Pathardi said that the attendee's unwell father had gone to the local government hospital on Thursday for a routine medical check-up. "While being examined by the doctors he spilled the beans about his son's participation in the religious congregation. The hospital authorities immediately alerted the senior district authorities, “ officials said. The Markaz attendee, who is a businessman, had gone to Mumbai after attending the Nizamuddin event and stayed there for a few days before returning his village at Pathardi in last week of March. "We will undertake a survey of the attendee's village to examine the health of the villagers " added Dwivedi. Currently, there are 35 people, including 29 foreigners, are under quarantine in Ahmednagar district. They all had attended the Nizamuddin event out of which four foreigners have been tested positive.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/markaz-attendee-family-picked-up-quarantined/articleshow/75088224.cms||---
April 11, 2020||Nashik||Third patient recovers, fourth hotspot identified in district||Nashik: A 30-year-old male patient from Ahmednagar has recovered from Covid-19 and discharged from Evangeline Booth Hospital on Friday evening. He becomes the third patient from the city to get cured of the coronavirus infection after his latest swab test results came negative. Unlike the first two patients, who had overseas travel history, the third patient got infected through a positive patient. District civil surgeon Pradeep Murambikar said that the third patient was admitted to the hospital on March 24 after he tested positive for the virus. "He had cough, fever, and sore throat. But he did not require any ventilator support even for a single day. Our line of treatment was perfect to cure him of the illness,” said Murambikar. The patient was given hydroxychloroquine and Tamiflu for the first one-week following which his fever and cough subsided. Thereafter, he was given only multi-vitamins for the remaining days at the hospital. “Even after his release, the health authorities would continue to keep a tab on his health,” said the officials. Ahmednagar had 25 Covid-19 patients and so far only three have been discharged from the hospital. The remaining 22, including four foreigners, are undergoing treatment. All these 22 patients are linked to the Tablighi Jammat event at Nizamuddin either directly or indirectly. Meanwhile, the Ahmednagar district administration has zeroed in on one more Covid-19 hotspots in the district, taking the total number of hotshots to four. The district administration has identified Alamgir in Ahmednagar taulka is the fourth hotspot after a couple of positive cases were reported from the said area. Mukundnagar (Ahmednagar city), Jamkhed town and Naikwadpura (Sangamner town) were earlier identified as other hotspots. District collector Rahul Dwivedi has ordered complete lockdown in these four areas from Friday till midnight of April 14. "These four hotspots have been completely sealed and no one is allowed to go inside or outside these four zones. We have set-up help centers in all four locations where we would help the residents in getting supplies of essentials," said district officials. Meanwhile, a 60-year old woman of Koregaon in Ahmednagar was tested positive for Covid 19 on Friday. She didn't have any overseas travel history. The health officials are checking if she came into contact with any of the covid positive patients in the district.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/third-patient-recovers-fourth-hotspot-identified-in-district/articleshow/75088233.cms||---
April 11, 2020||Ahmedabad||Rly staff trundling out masks, sanitizers||Ahmedabad: With work in the railways almost coming to a standstill, staff of the Ahmedabad division have a new task on hand. The division’s staff at laboratories and loco sheds are busy making sanitizer, while the others have dusted their sewing machines and are now making protective masks. The idea to make reusable masks and sanitizer was moved by divisional railway manager Deepak Kumar Jha and was well received by staff. Those which chemical engineering or science backgrounds got involved in making sanitizers and those who had sewing machines offered to make masks. Vena Rani, assistant to the senior chief coaching depot officer in Maninagar, said, “We were asked to make masks and immediately joined in. The ones we make have two layers and are washable and reuseable.” She said she made 95 masks in the last two days which were distributed to local staffers. Gauri Patel, a carpenter in Kankaria, says, “I make curtains and stitch torn seats, thus when this idea was floated, instead of sitting around I immediately joined the force. I make about 50 mask per day,” she said. R V Sharma, a lab superintendent and a BSc in physics, chemistry and mathematics, said when the idea to make sanitizer was mooted they joined in as there was no work in the lab. Stores supply us the material and we are making alcohol-based sanitizer. The sanitizer is made according to guidelines of the World Health Organisation. Narendra Mathur, a chemical and metallurgical superintendent, said that the sanitizer the make is given to the Vatva station officer, other personnel and RPF jawans. “Others who ask are also being given the sanitizer,” he said. He said they keep records of sanitizer made and even distributed. He said they make 120 litres of sanitizer a day at the Vatva loco shed.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/rly-staff-trundling-out-masks-sanitizers/articleshow/75088805.cms||Himanshu Kaushik
April 11, 2020||Bhubaneswar||No mask, no fuel: Petrol pumps||Bhubaneswar: Motorists going to fuel stations without wearing a mask will not get petrol, diesel or CNG for their vehicles. Petrol pump dealers across the state have come up with the stringent rule to check spread of Covid-19 and ensure safety of their employees. The move came a day after the state government issued a regulation making use of face masks mandatory while stepping out of houses. “The decision has been taken to ensure that people strictly follow the rules made by the state government,” said Sanjay Lath, general secretary of Utkal Petroleum Dealers Association. Lath said all fuel stations across the state have also been asked to adhere to the social distancing guidelines of the state government at the outlets. According to the state government regulation on use of masks that came into force since 7 am on Thursday, stepping out of the home without using a mask will attract fine of Rs 200 for the first three offences and Rs 500 on every subsequent violation. In view of the shortage of N-95 masks, the state government has asked people to use clean handkerchiefs or a piece of cloth with multiple folds to cover their nose and mouth while stepping out of their homes. On Thursday, the Ganjam district administration has asked the shopkeepers to deny essential commodities like groceries, medicines and vegetables to those, who are stepping outside their homes without a mask.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhubaneswar/no-mask-no-fuel-petrol-pumps/articleshow/75087275.cms||---
April 11, 2020||Chennai||Chennai students school people on Covid-19 don’ts||CHENNAI: Girl students from city corporation schools, who had actively participated in dengue awareness campaigns held in October and November last year, are now raising voice for the ongoing Covid-19 pandemic. The youngsters, who are actively fulfilling their roles as student health ambassadors by creating awareness in their neighbourhoods, also recently released an emotionally charged video against those violating the lockdown orders. Minister for municipal administration S P Velumani released the video on his Twitter account. “We are all aware of the ongoing pandemic. Yet, the activities of a few who venture out unnecessarily put children like us at risk. Despite appeal from the Prime Minister and government authorities, many are unwilling to listen. Does our future mean nothing to you?” Nanditha Gandhi, a student ambassador, asks in the video. Nandita Gandhi and Navya Sri, class VIII students of Chennai Girls Higher Secondary School in Pulla Avenue, Shenoy Nagar, have been creating awareness about the pandemic in their neighbourhood since the lockdown began. “I have been doing the whatever little I can. At first, when I saw people venturing out in my street, I appealed to them to take the issue seriously. At home too, I have asked my parents to exercise social distancing while going out,” Nanditha said, and emphasized that it is important for the public to listen to the authorities in these times. Nanditha was chosen as a student health ambassador last year as part of the ‘clean chennai, healthy chennai’ campaign by the civic body after she took several cleanliness initiatives in her school. The corporation had used the student ambassadors during dengue awareness campaign last year and there has been a positive response to their videos. “A few of my relatives and friends called and told that the videos have brought about a change. In my street too, the number of people who venture out has come down and I was told that my requests were among the reasons,” Nanditha said. According to a corporation official, such videos by school students, especially girl students, tend to appeal to the public. “There are videos by celebrities and elected representatives too. When children appeal, it has a sentimental tinge to it and most parents listen to their children and eventually most will stay indoors,” the official said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/city-students-school-people-on-covid-19-donts/articleshow/75088795.cms||---
April 11, 2020||Thiruvananthapuram||Soon swab testing facility in all dists||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM: To make Covid-19 testing fast and easy, efforts are on to set up swab testing facilities in all districts of the state. Apart from government testing centres, two private sector labs have also secured the nod for testing. At present, there are nine testing centres in government sector and the new additions are Aster Medcity and DDRC in Ernakulam in private sector. Meanwhile, government has sought permission to begin similar facilities at Manjeri, Ernakulam and Kannur medical colleges. “We are expecting clearance for these testing centres from Indian Council of Medical Research and National Institute of Virology very soon. Once we get permission, each lab will cater to the samples in the district. This will enable us to give results rapidly,” said a health official. Lab facility has been kept ready at Ernakulam, Manjeri and Kannur medical colleges and only the nod from central agencies is required. At present the testing centres in Thiruvananthapuram are Sree Chitra Institute of Medical Sciences and Technology, Rajiv Gandhi Centre for Biotechnology, state public health lab and medical college hospital. Of this, (till date) RGCB is catering to samples collected from Ernakulam whereas the state public health lab is testing samples from Pathanamthitta. Now, the central university in Kasaragod has also been converted into a testing facility. In addition to this, the other centres are Kottayam, Thrissur and Kozhikode medical college hospitals and national institute of virology in Alappuzha. Till date, samples from Kannur, Kasaragod, Malappuram, Idukki, Palakkad and Wayanad were distributed between these testing centres. With 14 testing centres coming into play in near future, the load of present centres will come down. The state is expecting results from 640 more samples (till date) and it has tested 13,339 samples.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/thiruvananthapuram/soon-swab-testing-facility-in-all-dists/articleshow/75087316.cms||Rajiv G
April 11, 2020||Goa||450-year-old Procession of Tails at Se Cathedral called off||PANAJI: A unique 450-year-old tradition, the Procession of Tails, held during the Good Friday commemoration at Se Cathedral, Old Goa, could not be held due to the lockdown imperatives of safety. The iconic church hosts the canons – senior priests with prominent record of service – as well as the Archbishop for the commemoration of Jesus Christ’s crucifixion. Procession of Tails, locally called ‘Xempddeanchem Pursanv’, draws many devotees from Tiswadi and nearby. But on Friday, only two canons, Fr Saturnino Dias and Fr Seby Vaz were present with another priest and a few other members assisting the service. Fr Vaz, also the parish priest, compared the scene in the church to the empty tomb of Jesus after he arose from it. “But his presence was not “absent” because the tomb was glorified. We are not experiencing community participation, but the church is alive,” he said. The Procession of Tails, so referred to because of the canon’s flowing black cloaks is held in the four corners of the church after the enactment of Christ’s crucifixion. The congregation lines up along the route, as the wooden clappers signal its start from the altar. Jesus’ coffin is preceded by altar servers,and as stirring motets enhance the solemn ambience, the canons and archbishop follow. After Goa became a diocese, the Cathedral chapter had been set up by Apostolic See in 1534 and, at one stage, it had 30 canons. With their number dwindling to just five and only three active ones, the archdiocese had appointed six more in November last year. “The people were waiting for the procession eagerly,” Fr Vaz said. The service was live streamed to parishioners in Old Goa, as they spent time quietly in their homes in an unprecedented commemoration.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/450-yr-old-procession-of-tails-at-se-cathedral-called-off/articleshow/75089368.cms||Paul Fernandes
April 11, 2020||Nashik||Working from home is a challenge, say employees of IT companies||Nashik: Working from home is far from the ideal setup, say employees of various companies in the city as they grapple with unimaginable challenges in the time of caronavirus. The lockdown has pushed them indoors and has brought about habitual changes in their workstyle. Founder president of the Nashik IT Association, Arvind Mahapatra, said that companies have to take care of their employees as well as their customers and convince them that everything is going well. “It is a challenging time for all of us. Decisions are made keeping three things in mind - the wellbeing of our employees, the requirements of our customers and the planning of measures while anticipating the future,” Mahapatra told TOI. Clientele from the banking sector are to be served on preference as they are working during the crisis, he added. Chaitanya Tipre, Project Delivery Manager at a private IT company, said that working remotely is harder than working from home. “People think it is easy to stay at home and work at one's leisure but it’s just the opposite. We face several physical barriers like network issues and malfunctioning devices. I have bought two SIM cards so that I can connect with my clients and my team without network errors as all my work depends upon the internet,” he added. Tipre said that his company had anticipated such issues and has already provided laptops and a licensed version of the necessary software to those who did not have them. Tushar Kochar, an assistant project manager, said, “My team and I are committed to the company. Therefore we are working efficiently during this worldwide emergency. But the environment at home is not that professional. The mindset that we have in the office completely changes at home.” At work it is usually quiet and work-friendly, whereas at home there are noises and other disturbances, he said. "The environment around a person has a lot of impact on work,” he added. Employees dealing with sales have a whole new set of obstacles. “There are 15 members in my team. We cannot go outside and meet clients which has caused a setback to our company’s product sales and also to our work efficiency," said Attar Masoud, a sales manager. "I continuously have to think of daily training programmes to keep my team engaged and self motivated so that when the lockdown is lifted, we can work with the same motivation,” he added. Women employees have the added challenge of managing their homes as well as working. They have to follow a timetable that suits them best. “I stick to the schedule I used to follow while working from office, otherwise the whole day becomes unproductive," says Ashwini Pardeshi, a marketing coordinator. "I get up early to cook and clean as there is no house help available these days. Then I start working from my login time and take my lunch break at a fixed time everyday.” She also has to manage her small child who expects her to be around him all the time since she is at home. “The family has to understand that we are working and not on leave,” she said. Anupama Karve, development manager at a private firm, said, “There is no fixed time of working from home for me. Sometimes I have to work for extended hours depending on the availability of time or connectivity with the clients. I wake up early and finish some of my work while my child is sleeping and then spend an hour with the family. After that, both my husband and I start working from home.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/working-from-home-is-a-challenge-say-employees-of-it-companies/articleshow/75088245.cms||pragya jain
April 11, 2020||Dehradun||Villagers in hills facing cash shortage due to Covid-19 lockdown||Almora: Locals of remote villages in the hill districts of Uttarakhand are dealing with shortage of cash amidst the nationwide Covid-19 lockdown. In absence of public transport, it has become very difficult for them to go to ATMs (or banks) and withdraw money. People in these villages have run out of cash and are buying essentials from shopkeepers on credit. “I don’t have any cash left now. We are buying essentials on credit but we don’t know how long the shopkeepers will let us do that,” Hoshiyar Singh Bungla, a native of Bungli village, told TOI in a telephonic conversation. Local Block Development Committee (BDC) member and Bungli resident Chandra Prakash said, “Bungli is the farthest village of Pithoragarh’s Gangolihat block. The nearest ATM or bank branch for us is in Gangolihat town, which is at least 74 kilometres away. Due to the lockdown, people can’t go that far to withdraw cash.” Villagers of Almora district are facing a similar crisis. “Locals have money in their accounts but no cash to buy daily essentials. The administration must take steps to help people facing acute shortage of cash,” said Gopal Gururani, a BDC member of Jyud Kafoon village in Almora’s Hawalbag. He added that he highlighted the issue in a WhatsApp group created for the BDC members of his block. To tackle this cash crisis, State-owned banks like State Bank of India and Uttarakhand Gramin Bank have set up Consumer Service Centres (CSCs) in several remote villages. In these centres, local persons are authorised to do transactions on behalf of the banks on a commission basis. However, the staff members of these CSCs are unable to commute to the villages due to the lockdown. “We get a commission when customers withdraw cash but the commission we get it too less. I cannot book a taxi and go to Gangolihat to collect cash from the bank for this little commission,” said Joga Singh, representative of a CSC (authorised by SBI Gangolihat) in Bungli village. Meanwhile, district officials of Pithoragarh have informed that ATM mobile vans of Uttarakhand Gramin Bank are making rounds to ensure that people do not suffer a cash shortage. "We send ATM mobile vans to places from where cash shortage is reported. Apart from this, sufficient money has been made available in all banks, including cooperative banks in the remote areas,” Vijay Kumar Jogdande, Pithoragarh’s district magistrate told TOI.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/villagers-in-hills-facing-cash-shortage-due-to-covid-19-lockdown/articleshow/75088249.cms||Rohit Joshi
April 11, 2020||Nagpur||Chhattisgarh initiates move to check power plants emission||Nagpur: Responding to the health impact assessment study highlighting increased vulnerability to coronavirus among people living near coal-fired plants, the Chhattisgarh government has directed the concerned authorities to initiate action towards emission control. TOI recently reported the latest scientific study done by Chhattisgarh State Health Resource Centre (SHRC). The cross-sectional study highlighted that people residing near thermal power plants were more prone to respiratory illnesses and diseases like coronavirus. Taking note of it, Chhattisgarh Minister of Revenue, Disaster Management and Rehabilitation Jaisingh Agrawal on April 9 wrote to the state commercial tax (excise) and industry minister Kawasi Lakhma. Agrawal agreed with the health burden on the communities living near coal-fired power plants in Korba and their added vulnerability to threats like coronavirus. Agrawal further instructed the departments concerned to take action to control the emissions and improve the situation in the region. At a time when government authorities are mostly in denial when it comes to public health impacts of coal plants, experts feel the minister’s letter has set-up a good precedent. Public Health Consultant and former director of SHRC Chhattisgarh Dr Prabir Chatterjee said, “It is encouraging to see the minister has taken notice of the report. We too would encourage other cabinet ministers to take up this cause and begin health impact assessments in the interest of the common man, displaced and tribal communities whom they represent.” Stating that poor lung capacity made people living in the vicinity of power plants a high risk group for infections like coronavirus, director of Climate Trends Aarti Khosla said, “Predisposition to ill health, for example respiratory conditions like asthma, which are commonly prevalent in industrial areas like Korba, lead to reduced lung function and makes such people more vulnerable to infections like coronavirus. At a time when nature has allowed us to re-think, making a conscious choice about powering India through clean, renewable energy will bring public health benefits as also it will make economic sense, and prevent the insurmountable losses that coal companies are making.” In its research, SHRC had compared samples from exposed population living within 10 km radius of the power plants in Korba, which has the world’s second largest open cast mines and 10 power plants in its vicinity producing 6000MW of electricity. Of the nine locations in Korba, five had particulate matter (PM) 2.5 levels above the permissible limit of 60micrograms per cubic metre (mpcm) as prescribed by the Ministry of Environment, Forest and Climate Change (MoEFCC).||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/chhattisgarh-initiates-move-to-check-power-plants-emission/articleshow/75088815.cms||Manka Behl
April 11, 2020||Nagpur||City’s Markaz ‘Lal Building’ closed after +ve case found in Betul||Nagpur: City’s Tablighi Jamaat Markaz, popularly known as Lal Building, situated at Ansar Nagar, Mominpura, was closed down on Thursday. It was in the aftermath of a TJ member from Betul, Madhya Pradesh (MP), was found positive for coronavirus. The man had stayed in city’s Markaz (centre) for 14 days. Following directives of Nagpur Municipal Corporation (NMC), charitable trust Idara-E-Tahfeezul Quran, which runs the Markaz, locked it on its own after team from NMC completed sanitization. Markaz comprises a mosque and a sprawling hall where TJ members stay and religious activities are carried on. NMC chief medical officer health Dr Yogendra Savai had directed the trust to close the Markaz on April 7. Markaz secretary Abdul Bari Patel told TOI, “I got a call from the NMC official informing one Jamaat member had tested positive in Betul and he had stayed here. I checked in records and the person was here between March 14 and 28. Only four persons visit Markaz and perform namaz. We have done sanitization after everyone left Markaz. Still, we decided to follow whatever instructions NMC gave. Now, there will be no namaz at Markaz for 14 days,” he said. Patel added, “I identified seven close contacts of Betul person and informed the NMC. All were examined and quarantined at Lonara college. None of the persons from city who are connected with Markaz are positive as of now,” he said. Patel also said, “Four of eight Jamaat members from Myanmar who are under institutional quarantine had also stayed at Markaz when Betul person was here.” Asked about TJ members from city who went outside on religious tours, Patel said, “Three of four TJ groups have returned from Chandrapur, Wardha and Jabalpur. One group remains at Seoni in MP. All are either under institutional or home quarantine,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/citys-markaz-lal-building-closed-after-ve-case-found-in-betul/articleshow/75088810.cms||Anjaya Anparthi
April 11, 2020||Bhubaneswar||26 discharged from government quarantine centre in Bhubaneswar||BHUBANESWAR: The Bhubaneswar Municipal Corporation (BMC) on Friday asked 26 people staying in a government quarantine centre to leave the facility after completion of the mandatory 14-day period. None of the discharged tested positive for novel coronavirus. Among those discharged are the ones who had returned from abroad and had travelled to places outside Odisha. There were also Kar Clinic staff and kin of the Covid-19 patient who was being treated in the clinic before he tested positive, leading to the clinic being sealed. The health department on Thursday confirmed that 21 samples of Kara Clinic staff and those close to the patient had tested negative. A BMC officer said blood sample of all the 26 had been taken for tests and they were found to be negative. “Although it is not mandatory that all discharged from quarantine needs to undergo test, yet it was done as it was the first batch. None of the 26 showed symptoms during their stay in quarantine home. They were all contact persons and suspects,” said a BMC officer in charge of the quarantine facility. All the discharged were staying in a government hostel. The government has another facility in the city, a guest house. Together, the facilities can house more than 500 people. As of Friday, 54 are in government quarantine. BMC officials said those who come in contact with a positive person or could come in contact if allowed to stay in a locality, are taken to the quarantine facility. Also, the ones who are suspected to have come in contact with a positive person but don’t have enough facility for home quarantine, have been taken to the government centre. The BMC has been supplying food and other essential items for the quarantined.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhubaneswar/26-discharged-from-govt-quarantine-centre-in-city/articleshow/75087307.cms||---
April 11, 2020||Lucknow||Medicine park for Uttar Pradesh on CM Yogi Adityanath wish list||LUCKNOW: After having decided to establish an advanced virology research institute here on the pattern of NIV, Pune to equip UP to tackle even a bio warfare, chief minister Yogi Adityanath now wants a world class drug park in the state. With Yogi’s efforts, UP has already got a defence corridor which is being developed as a hub for defence production units. The CM has written to Centre drawing its attention towards the need for setting up of a drug and medicinal equipment park in the state. The Centre has decided to establish four such parks in the country. The CM is learnt to have explained the Centre that Lucknow is the most favourable destination for the development of drug park as it already has several drug research institutes and adequate infrastructure as well as the manpower. In a letter addressed to Union minister for chemical and fertilisers DB Sadananda Gauda on March 7, the CM stated that Lucknow is the best suited for setting up of such a park because it has several drug and medicine research institutes. Many drug firms in the private sector are benefiting from the research work offered by these institutes, he said adding that after Lucknow, Gautam Buddha Nagar, an industrially most advanced region, is another city of the state where the proposed drug and medicinal equipment park can be set up, he has told the Union minister. Yogi has further told the Union minister that a world class international airport is coming up at Jewar in Noida, industrial hub of Gautam Budh Nagar. Besides, he has highlighted his government's first of its kind pharma policy which is attracting national and international pharma companies to set up their units in the state. Yogi has requested the Union minister to consider his point as Lucknow or Gautam Budh Nagar deserves to have a bulk drug and medicinal equipment park. The CM has reminded Gowda that Prime Minister Narendra Modi has declared that the nation’s economy would reach five trillion dollars in five years and UP’s to one trillion dollars. To fulfill his announcement, setting up of a bulk drug park would be in the best interest of the state, he has stated in the letter. It was due to hectic pursuance of the CM with former defence minister Nirmala Sitharaman that out of the two defence corridors to be set up in the country, UP was offered one. The work for development of the defence corridor in seven districts is in full swing. The corridor has also offered an opportunity to the MSME sector to establish units in the region for supplying material to major firms. PM Narendra Modi had laid the foundation stone of the defence corridor and at the defence show in Lucknow in February, the UP government had signed Rs 50,000 crore MOUs with national and international companies for setting up their plants in the state. If the drug and medicinal equipment park also comes up in the state, it will be another feather in Yogi's cap.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/medicine-park-for-uttar-pradesh-on-cm-yogi-adityanath-wish-list/articleshow/75089359.cms||Subhash Mishra
April 11, 2020||Delhi||Busted: Attendance shows 98 safai workers on duty, just 34 present||NEW DELHI: Municipal sanitation employees absenting themselves from work or faking attendance not only affects the hygiene of a locality, but also increases the load on workers reporting for duty, especially when those aged 55 years or above have asked to stay at home on leave due to their susceptibility to infection by the novel coronavirus. But just such a fake attendance ring was busted in Najafgarh, prompting South Delhi Municipal Corporation to conduct surprise field visits and to have the verification of attendance submitted by 11am every morning. An SDMC official said on Friday that the deputy commissioner of Najafgarh zone had conducted a surprise inspection of ward 52, Mahavir Enclave, on April 7 around 10 am and found the sanitation condition there “unsatisfactory”. He also noted the absence of sanitation workers in the field. “The total working strength of the sanitation employees in the ward is 115, of whom the reported presence of workers on Tuesday was 98,” said the notice issued by the Najafgarh zone to the supervisory staff. “During the inspection of attendance register by the chief sanitation inspector, it was found that only 34 workers were actually present on their beats at the time when 98 had been marked present.” In effect, the area was operating at 29% of the sanctioned employee strength. Four supervisors, including the area sanitation inspector and his deputy, have been issued show-cause notices, the corporation official said. “The above commission and omission show misreporting of the attendance and supervisory lapses on the part of officials while discharging their duty and their acting in irresponsible manner,” the notice charged them. “You are directed to explain in seven days why disciplinary action should not be initiated for misreporting and dereliction of duty.” The assistant commissioner of the zone has also directed the ward in-charges to mark the attendance and report absenteeism through a WhatsApp group, which will now be used to rectify the situation. He reminded them that “the work timing of the sanitation staff of department of environment management and services remain the same as before the lockdown”. The matter of ghost employees and fake attendance has plagued Delhi's civic bodies for over a decade. Rejimon CK, a citizen activist associated with the Dwarka Forum, said that there is a need to understand the plight of the honest field staff who turn up for work to disinfect the neighbourhoods against the novel coronavirus. “There seems to be a shortage of staff and we were recently told the health department has only 24 workers to cover 185 apartment complexes, 13 DDA pockets, two villages and eight unauthorised colonies,” Rejimon said. “Just imagine how ill-prepared our system is. I don’t understand how the administration can allow one not to work and another to labour round the clock. We need to reassign resources.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/busted-attendance-shows-98-safai-workers-on-duty-just-34-present/articleshow/75088806.cms||Paras Singh
April 11, 2020||Dehradun||President Ram Nath Kovind lauds 60-year-old who donated savings to PM CARES Fund||DEHRADUN: President RamNath Kovind, on Friday, appreciated 60-year-old social worker Devki Singh Bhandari who donated all her life’s savings to PM CARES Fund. A tweet from the official Twitter handle of the President’s office read, “Pleased to learn about the generosity of Smt Devki Bhandari from Chamoli, Uttarakhand. Her donation of Rs 10 lakh to the PM-CARES fund from her hard earned savings, exemplifies the nation's resolve to defeat Covid-19 in the spirit of a true nation builder. My best wishes to her.” Bhandari, a social worker from Chamoli’s Gauchar town, had made the generous contribution to Prime Minister’s relief fund on Wednesday. On the same day, Union Human Resource Development minister Ramesh Pokhriyal Nishank posted a series of tweets to hail her contribution. State tourism minister Satpal Maharaj also praised Bhandari saying, “She reflects the true spirit of a woman from Uttarakhand. The women of Uttarakhand are known for being on the forefront of affairs whenever the situation demands so.” Notably, Bhandari had lost her husband Hukum Singh – who worked in sericulture department – a few years back and she does not have any children. She spends the majority of her time in social work activities in Chamoli district. Presently, she stays in a rented accommodation and aids a few children financially in their higher education. Notably, her father was a freedom fighter.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/prez-lauds-60-yr-old-who-donated-savings-to-pm-cares-fund/articleshow/75088803.cms||Kautilya Singh
April 11, 2020||Hyderabad||Telangana: Crowded prisons make room for station bails||HYDERABAD: The Telangana police has been granting station bail to all the accused except those who are involved in grave crimes such as rape, attempt to murder and murder. Ever since the state-wide lockdown began, police officials have been granting station bail to the accused instead of producing them before the magistrate. As crowded prisons and lock-up rooms facilitate the spread of novel coronavirus, the police officials have received instructions to grant station bail to the accused who could be awarded a sentence of less than seven years. “Only accused involved in offences such as murder, rape, attempt to murder and other grave offences are being produced before magistrate. In all other cases which have been registered since the lockdown, where in the maximum punishment is less than 7 years, police are granting station bail,’’ senior police officials told TOI. According to prison officials, on an average the admission of under trials is between six and 10 per day, during the lockdown at Cherlapally and Chanchalguda prisons. Earlier, the average under trial admissions recorded used to be between 80 and 100 at Cherlapally and Chanchalguda, respectively. Due to the rapid spread of COVID-19, prison officials are insisting that the police should get medical clearance from Gandhi hospital before the accused are brought to these jails. Following instructions from the Supreme Court, a high level committee convened a meeting to ascertain if the jails in Telangana are overcrowded. The committee is expected to recommend de-congestive measures if it finds the prisons to be overcrowded.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/crowded-prisons-make-room-for-stn-bails/articleshow/75088813.cms||Srinath Vudali
April 11, 2020||Hyderabad||With no dedicated helpline, residents of barricaded zones struggle to get help||HYDERABAD: The additional barricades, which surfaced by Friday afternoon in bylanes of the 12 localities marked as containment clusters in the city, has evoked a mixed response from Resident Welfare Associations (RWAs) and people living in these clusters. Some of them welcomed the move but a lot of others objected to the sudden lockdown. People said that a dedicated phone number not being rolled out to contact officials in case of an emergency was a glaring omission. Several residents of Mallepally, Humayun Nagar, Bazarghat, Nampally (all the areas come under Red Hills containment cluster) objected to the move. A youngster was also seen climbing the barricades. “Due to sudden lockdown, families are going through a tough time. Government should ensure that there is no scarcity of essentials. The same was promised on Thursday by government officials who inspected the area,” said Abdul Wahab a resident of Bazarghat, Nampally. Residents urged the officials to allow delivery agents too. “Delivery agents should be allowed inside the cluster. I and several people in my locality depend on e-commerce websites for essentials,” said Vikram Batulla, a resident of Miyapur (near Talkie Town Road). Residents of Brindavan Colony (Toli Chowki) expressed the need for a dedicated phone number and involvement of RWAs. “On Thursday, we were promised support by the authorities. We were also informed that a phone number exclusively for people in the clusters will be rolled out, but we are yet to be given the phone number,” said 74-year-old Mohammed Azeem, former president of Brundhavan Colony.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/with-no-dedicated-helpline-residents-of-barricaded-zones-struggle-to-get-help/articleshow/75088832.cms||Nabinder Bommala
April 11, 2020||Hyderabad||168 US citizens flown from Hyderabad on special flight||HYDERABAD: As many as 168 United States citizens were flown from the city aboard two separate special Air India flights on Friday. The passengers on board the two special flights will first be flown to Mumbai from where they will be further connected to their destination in the United States on a Delta Airlines flight. Meanwhile, the US mission in India has also started sending confirmations for another repatriation flight for US citizens which will depart on Sunday. The first special Air India flight, an Airbus A-320 — AI-1615 (arrival)/ AI-1616 (departure) — departed for Mumbai on Friday at around 3pm with 70 passengers, including 69 adults and one infant. The second flight, also an Airbus A-320 — AI-1617 (arrival)/ AI-1618 (departure) — carried 98 US citizens, including 96 adults and two infants, to Mumbai at 4.24pm. The passengers were to be further connected via a Delta Airlines flight from Mumbai to their final destination in the United States. Making his way on a flight was Hyderabad-origin Vijay Sharma. Sharma, a US citizen, had come to the city in November on vacation but his flight back on March 28 got cancelled. “I wanted to go back to Orlando and began the process to get on to a repatriation flight a week ago,” he said adding that the US consulate employees had been very helpful throughout the entire process. A bus from Vijayawada was also arranged for US citizens to arrive at the Hyderabad airport. While the number of passengers on the bus could not be confirmed, consular employees had made arrangements for those travelling to clear the lockdown restrictions in order to reach the city. Sources said that at least two more flights were expected for the repatriation of US citizens from Hyderabad to Mumbai and onward to Atlanta in the US. The repatriation flights to the United States are being made available from Mumbai and New Delhi.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/168-us-citizens-flown-from-city-on-spl-flight/articleshow/75088698.cms||---
April 11, 2020||Business||15 million jobs likely to be lost in export sector, relief sought||AHMEDABAD: With cancellation of over 50% of orders and gloomy forecast for the future, India’s export sector may witness 15 million job losses and rise in non-performing assets (NPAs) among exporting units, said Federation of Indian Export Organisations (FIEO). Stating that exporters are left with very few orders, FIEO president Sharad Kumar Saraf, said, “If factories are not allowed to operate with a minimum workforce to execute them (orders) timely, many will suffer irreparable losses bringing them to the brink of closure.” Coronavirus outbreak: Live updatesThe exporters’ body on Friday also sought immediate announcement of a relief package for exports sector. FIEO has asked the government to allow exports related manufacturing immediately with minimum workforce and adhering to safety, sanitization and social distancing norms. More on Covid-19Coronavirus pandemic: Complete Coverage21-day lockdown: What will stay open and what won'tHow to quarantine yourself at homeTrust the newspaper for your daily verified newsApart from Covid consequent interest-free working capital term loan to exporters to cover the cost of wages, rental and utilities, the organization has also sought EPF and ESIC waiver for 3 months from March to May, 2020. The organization’s other suggestions include extension of pre and post shipment credit by 90-180 days on their maturity, rollover of forward cover without interest and penalty, automatic enhancement of limit by 25% to address liquidity challenges and extension of interest equalization benefits.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/15-million-jobs-likely-to-be-lost-in-export-sector-relief-sought/articleshow/75088818.cms||---
April 11, 2020||Hyderabad||Deposit Rs 5,000 in bank account of poor, Asaduddin Owaisi urges PM||HYDERABAD: AIMIM chief Asaduddin Owaisi on Friday alleged that certain sections were projecting the Muslim community in bad light in wake of the coronavirus pandemic. “Communal fake news in the time of pandemic has resulted in a wave of hate crimes against Muslims. An inadequate response from (Union) government has made it worse,” Owaisi said while citing several examples of fake videos which were circulated on social media. Owaisi also said that if Prime Minister Narendra Modi extends the lockdown, he should deposit Rs 5,000 in the bank accounts of the poor. “Whether to extend the lockdown or not is up to you (PM) , but if lockdown is extended then Rs 5,000 should be deposited in the account of every poor person in the state,” the AIMIM chief said in a video on Shab-e-Barat. “If you want to draft a new budget please do it. Chief minister K Chandrashekar Rao was right that this is the time to save lives. The poor are saying that if we escape Covid-19 death, we will die of hunger .Where will the poor go?” Owaisi questioned and appealed the Union government to release the excess food stocks in the FCI godowns. “It should be used to provide food for the people in langars and canteens,” Asad said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/deposit-rs-5k-in-bank-a/c-of-poor-asad-urges-pm/articleshow/75088812.cms||---
April 11, 2020||Hyderabad||UK charters flight from Hyderabad on April 17, will fly via Ahmedabad||HYDERABAD: A day after the first charter flight, carrying 317 British nationals, from Goa landed in London’s Stansted Airport, the UK on Friday opened bookings for 12 additional charter flights. One of the flights will fly from Hyderabad to London, via Ahmedabad, on April 17. “Passengers who wish to depart from Hyderabad should check: https://etm.eventsair.com/uk-government-charter-india/fco-746-hyderabad-charter/Site/Register for information on the flights, including cost and baggage allowances,” the British High Commission in New Delhi said in its statement. “People in Andhra Pradesh region closer to Bengaluru or Chennai, should check the flight that will depart from these places on April 20,” it added. The 12 flights, scheduled between April 13 and 20, will take off from Amritsar, Ahmedabad, Goa, Thiruvananthapuram, Kolkata, Chennai and Hyderabad. This is the second set of flights organised by the UK for about 3,000 British travellers currently stranded in India. In the first round, announced on April 5, seven charter flights were arranged for them from three cities – Goa, Mumbai and New Delhi. While four of them have already taken off, three more are scheduled for this week. Collectively, the 19 charter flights are expected to carry around 5,000 British nationals back. “We are doing all we can to get thousands of British travellers in India home. This is a huge and complex operation…Over 300 people arrived from Goa on Thursday morning, 1,400 more will arrive over the Easter weekend and these 12 flights next week will bring back thousands more,” said UK minister of state for South Asia and the Commonwealth, Lord Ahmad of Wimbledon. Thanking the Indian government for its support, acting High Commissioner to India, Jan Thompson said: “Getting people home as quickly as possible remains our absolute priority.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/uk-charters-flight-from-hyd-on-april-17-will-fly-via-ahmedabad/articleshow/75088762.cms||---
April 11, 2020||Delhi||No surety for bail: Delhi HC waives clause for undertrials’ release||NEW DELHI: In a major relief for undertrials given bail but stuck in jail, Delhi high court waived off condition of arranging a surety, in a move to immediately decongest city jails. A bench of justices Rajiv Sahai Endlaw and Manoj Kumar Ohri took suo motu notice of the problems being faced by such prisoners who were granted bail on condition they furnish surety and personal bond, as was the normal practice. With lockdown firmly in place across the country, the court realised that an accused would be hard put to produce a person as surety who could vouch for him. The issue was flagged earlier this week by a high powered committee, headed by Justice Hima Kohli, where it had been observed there were several undertrial prisoners languishing in jail despite grant of bail as they could not furnish surety bonds. The high court bench on Thursday ordered the jail authorities not to insist on surety and release on personal bonds all the undertrials who had been granted bail but were unable to furnish a surety bond. The direction would be applicable to those who were granted bail on or before April 7 either by the high court or by any subordinate court in the city. With the direction, the bench disposed of the matter after the government and jail administration assured it that it would be implemented immediately. The committee tasked with ensuring easing out of pressure on jails to stop spread of Covid-19 had pointed out that bail orders of such prisoners who had not been released due to failure to produce a surety, could be modified only by a judicial order from high court. The committee, set up on Supreme Court’s direction for identifying measures to decongest jails, was of the opinion that bail orders of such prisoners should be modified by a common judicial order as all of them could not approach court in the prevalent situation. In a video conferencing meeting the panel had also included senior citizen undertrials for release on bail if not accused of heinous offence.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/no-surety-for-bail-hc-waives-clause-for-undertrials-release/articleshow/75089370.cms||Abhinav Garg
April 11, 2020||Hyderabad||Volunteers help Cyberabad police to cater to the needy||HYDERABAD: The Cyberabad commissionerate is lending a human touch while making sure that the lockdown is enforced strictly. While commissioner V C Sajjanar is personally verifying the applicants who reach his office seeking emergency passes, a team of dedicated volunteers associated with the Covid-19 control room, including software professionals and NGO workers, are working round the clock to help people. About 150 volunteers, comprising working professionals from Society for Cyberabad Security Council (SCSC), Robin Hood Army and individuals, delivering emergency medicines to patients and supplying groceries to the needy. They are also attending calls of people requiring ambulance services. “On Friday, our team, comprising 17 police personnel and 150 volunteers, delivered food to 26,000 people. Since March 24, we have delivered groceries to over 10,000 people. Ambulance service is being used by 15-20 people every day...,” Covid-19 control room Additional DCP Praveen Kumar Reddy said. Gloria Shingnapure, legal manager at the Indian School of Business (ISB), is a volunteer of SCSC and is helping out at the control room. “ We coordinate with donors and people who need food and groceries. With the help of police, we deliver food and groceries along with hygiene kit to workers affected due to the lockdown,” she said. “We are issuing passes to people who have to transport a body, or families of pregnant woman whose delivery date is nearer, essential service providers and to people in medical emergencies. We have a fleet of 12 ambulances, one at each police division office and two at the commissionerate premises to help people in medical emergencies,” Sajjanar said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/volunteers-help-cyberabad-police-to-cater-to-the-needy/articleshow/75088786.cms||Mahesh Buddi
April 11, 2020||Hyderabad||4,000 construction workers show no Covid-19 symptoms in Greater Hyderabad||HYDERABAD: In a heartening development, the 4,000-odd construction workers living at 160 under-construction sites at various places in Greater Hyderabad, have shown no symptoms of coronavirus infection. These sites were identified jointly by the labour department, GHMC and revenue officials a fortnight ago. “The special teams of GHMC are monitoring their health condition on a daily basis. So far, there have been no symptoms of coronavirus infection among these workers,” said Gangadhar, deputy commissioner of labour, Hyderabad. The labour department, in consultation with GHMC, is shifting these workers to temporary shelter homes so that they do not have any problems in getting food supplies. The department is also seeking help of NGOs and revenue officials to know the health status of 3.35 lakh migrant workers in the state. There are about 14 lakh construction workers, who are registered with the Labour Welfare Board. Meanwhile, CPI and CPM cadres demanded the state government issue directions to labour department to utilise the Labour Welfare Fund and deposit Rs 5,000 each into the accounts of construction workers.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/4000-construction-workers-show-no-covid-19-symptoms/articleshow/75088844.cms||---
April 11, 2020||Hyderabad||BJP MLA T Raja Singh in virus remark row||HYDERABAD: BJP MLA T Raja Singh raked up a fresh controversy with his remarks against China on the spread of novel coronavirus. In his reply to a mail by counsellor in Chinese embassy in India, Liu Bing, Raja Singh said the entire world believes that coronavirus had originated from Wuhan in China. “You said that Chinese people are ready to work with Indians to prevail over the pandemic. I would like to send a message to the Chinese government through you that WHO should introduce an antibiotic as soon as possible to save the world from this deadly virus,” he said.  Bing agreed the pandemic broke out in Wuhan. “But China is the first country to report the coronavirus... It does not mean the virus had originated from Wuhan. It could break out anywhere in the world,” he said in the mail. Koride Mahesh||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/raja-singh-in-virus-remark-row/articleshow/75088854.cms||Koride Mahesh
April 11, 2020||Hyderabad||Volunteers give sanitary pads to migrant workers in Hyderabad||HYDERABAD: While volunteers are busy providing migrant workers with food and other essential supplies, sanitary requirements of women from these communities have largely gone unnoticed. Trying to bridge that gap is a businessman in Karimnagar, Bhavin Bhalodi. Bhalodi, along with his friends Gayatri Prasad and Parandham Sunke, are distributing sanitary napkins for the poor, focusing especially on migrant labourers. “These are the most marginalised people in society. While there is talk of providing them with some food, they have no access to meet their sanitary requirements. Seeing their plight we decided to step in,” Bhavin said.  Bhavin, being a man, initially had a problem in distribution of the sanitary packs. Hence, he started approaching men first so that they in turn can take the personal care items for their wives.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/volunteers-give-sanitary-pads-to-migrant-workers/articleshow/75088846.cms||---
April 11, 2020||Hyderabad||Order on burials against Hindu sentiments: Telangana BJP president Bandi Sanjay Kumar||HYDERABAD: Telangana BJP president Bandi Sanjay Kumar on Friday said that the government’s directives on burial of coronavirus victims goes against the sentiments of Hindus. He demanded that the order be scrapped by the government. “When the entire world is coming together in the fight against coronavirus, the state government is issuing guidelines in the name of religion...,” he said and alleged that the guidelines seemed like they were issued to appease a particular community. While the TRS refrained from making any statements on the BJP state president’s remarks, Hyderabad mayor Bonthu Rammohan said the government drafted the rules keeping in mind the safety aspects as per WHO guidelines and not religious ones. “The virus sees no boundaries such as religion or caste. It is sad that BJP is politicising a pandemic. I hope BJP leaders keep in mind the broader scenario,” the mayor said. TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/order-on-burials-against-hindu-sentiments-bjp/articleshow/75088802.cms||---
April 11, 2020||Bengaluru||Home bakers, small outlets whip up Easter treats in lockdown||BENGALURU: In times of lockdown, small bakeries and home bakers are coming to the rescue of people looking to buy Easter treats. This despite shortage of ingredients and manpower. “The reason we decided to make Easter treats is because it gives us an opportunity to spread happiness among people through fresh food during these sombre times,” says Tazeen Kapadia of Lagom Patisserie. Tazeen and her husband Saad, who run the one-and-a-half-year-old store, are dishing out Easter specials of dark chocolate babka and hot cross buns this weekend, even though the prices of supplies have doubled. We made hot cross buns last year and they were a super hit,” says Saad. The lockdown may have families sitting at home but that hasn’t stopped them from ordering Easter eggs, says Shishum Hinduja, co-founder of Happy Belly Bakes cafe and patisserie. “We generally have a special menu for Easter but this year, due to skeletal staff and fewer ingredients, we have decided to make only Easter eggs,” says Shisham, adding: “We have had people calling us from abroad asking us to deliver the eggs to their families in the city. Parents planning treasure hunts for kids have placed orders.” Home baker Seema Punjabi’s Easter menu looks good. “I plan to make traditional carrot cake, coconut Easter-theme cake, chocolate Easter eggs and nest cupcakes,” says Fraser Town resident Seema, for whom living in a largely Catholic neighbourhood was a good reason to work for the occasion. “Besides a few five star hotels, it is home bakers and a few other small outlets which are doing interesting things for Easter. I, for instance, ordered hot cross buns from The Sour Baker, a home baker just a lane away,” says Aslam Gafoor. The Soul Company, a city-based experiential platform, has roped in a few popular chefs and homegrown brands to put together a special fundraiser Easter menu, adds Gafoor. Delivery services to the rescue Besides being available on platforms like Swiggy, Dunzo and Zomato, most small bakeries are also taking orders through their Instagram pages. “We are trying to reach as many customers as we can across the city through delivery services,” says Shisham. “I have sent bakery orders to places like Vidyaranyapura and RMV Extension using Swiggy and Dunzo and will use them to deliver Easter specials,” says Seema, who receives orders mainly on her Instagram handle @thesugarfairy23. ————- Box: Low-key celebration With churches shut, Easter is likely to be a low-key affair for the Christian community in the city. Normally, churches see large crowds during the Passion Week between April 5-11, especially for Palm Sunday, Maundy Thursday, Good Friday and Easter Sunday. In fact, the community observed Maundy Thursday and Good Friday by watching the service online. “We are traversing difficult times unprecedented in the annals of human history. Good Friday and Easter are extraordinary moments; they bear special significance in reassuring us that these difficult times too will pass,” said Peter Machado, archbishop of Bengaluru. “Every year, we witness maximum attendance during our Good Friday and Easter services. During this lockdown period, we have been engaging with people through our website and social media handles,” said Rev Johnson V, pastor-in-charge, Bethel AG church. JA Kantharaj, a Koramangala resident, said: “Most Christian families are not celebrating Easter in a big way due to the Covid-19 crisis. This is the first time in recent years that we are unable to attend the holy mass. My family will stay indoors and pray to God to help us overcome this crisis.” Meanwhile, many bakeries have witnessed a sharp dip in the sale of Easter eggs and hot cross buns due to the lockdown. Owners say they are facing a manpower crunch due to transport issues and fear of Covid-19.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/home-bakers-small-outlets-whip-up-easter-treats-in-lockdown/articleshow/75088604.cms||---
April 11, 2020||Hyderabad||Sanmed follows ‘Telangana first’ policy for supply of disinfectants||HYDERABAD: Telangana’s largest manufacturer of infection prevention and control products, Sanmed Healthcare Pvt Ltd, which makes around 50 products like hand rubs as well as air, surface, skin and instrument disinfectants for the institutional segment, has put on hold all orders from outside Telangana to ensure that the state does not run short of critical disinfectants and anti-septic products. The Genome Valley-based company, which also supplies to institutions like the Indian armed forces, Indian Railways, AIIMS, TGI-Chandigarh, BARC, JIPMER along with exports, will resume supplies outside the state only once Telangana has adequate supply of these hygiene products, pointed out Sanmed Healthcare founder Dr Ranga Reddy Burri. Sanmed is currently supplying its products to Telangana government institutions. “We have been bombarded with very large orders from US, Australia, Germany...but our first priority is our home state. We have a manufacturing capacity to manufacture 21,000 litres per day which we are ramping up to over 50,000 lpd...,” pointed out Dr Ranga Reddy.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/sanmed-follows-telangana-first-policy-for-supply-of-disinfectants/articleshow/75088841.cms||---
April 11, 2020||Hyderabad||Telangana government mulling mass Covid-19 tests, says KT Rama Rao||HYDERABAD: Municipal administration minister KT Rama Rao said the state government was contemplating conducting mass tests for coronavirus in the identified hotspots. The government has identified 130 hotspots areas, where more number of Covid-19 cases are being reported and all these areas have been sealed. The minister said there was a proposal to administer vaccines to infants during this lockdown period at their homes as parents were having a tough time taking them to hospitals. The minister said he had discussed the issue with health minister Eatala Rajender. The minister interacted with twitterati on #AskKTR on Friday evening. He said the state government was taking all steps to contain the virus in the state and his opinion is the lockdown should be extended beyond April 14. Replying to a person on banning foreign flights till the Covid-19 vaccine is found, KTR said it was not possible to ban international travel. He said the lockdown and Covid-19 had taught lesson on hygiene, sanitation and self-discipline. On the examinations, especially SSC, which were postponed, the minister said many parents were worried about the examination schedule, the state government would take a decision soon. Some people brought the issue of lower pollution levels. KTR said if all the countries agree it would be a great idea to impose a 10-day lockdown a year and said it was his personal opinion. Stating that all the countries need to learn a lesson from this global pandemic and would focus on the improvement of medical and health facilities especially developing countries. To another question, KTR, who is also TRS working president, said he was discharging his duties with realistic approach and helping the people. The minister said he knew about his limitations both on personal and political lives. He refused to react on political issues claiming it was not the right time to comment.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/state-govt-mulling-mass-covid-19-tests-says-ktr/articleshow/75088839.cms||---
April 11, 2020||Hyderabad||US nationals stock up on eatables and sanitisers for long journey home||Taking no chances, many US citizens who were to board the special flight from Hyderabad, stocked up on food and sanitisers for their journey back home. This, as many had been told by those who had been repatriated earlier to not expect any supplies, especially at the connecting airport. “As soon as we landed at Mumbai everything went downhill,” said a passenger who was on board the repatriation flight on Tuesday, on condition of anonymity. “The buses to take us to the flight were hot and we were overcrowded in them. Ground staff in Mumbai were busy taking our pictures but no one helped to get our bags for people struggling. There were no sanitisers or wipes anywhere in sight,” she claimed. Speaking about the distress some were had faced, she said: “I saw kids crying because of the heat and seniors on the verge of fainting. We were giving out water and food. The final relief was being on the plane, till it got diverted and landed in Detroit instead of Atlanta due to engine problems.” The passenger added that her time in Mumbai gave her heat exhaustion and now in the US she had a temperature, strong headache and lack of appetite. TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/us-nationals-stock-up-on-eatables-and-sanitisers-for-long-journey-home/articleshow/75088702.cms||---
April 11, 2020||Bengaluru||Commissioner, quartet lead BBMP’s fight against pandemic||BENGALURU: Four officials on the ground are steering the BBMP’s strategy in containing the spread of Covid-19. They have been at it since January 22, when BBMP commissioner BH Anil Kumar chaired the first meeting to get Bengaluru ready for the crisis. Under their guard, Bengaluru’s share of Karnataka’s Covid-19 cases has come down from 61% (39 of 64) on March 27 to 35% (71 of 207) on April 10. TOI zooms in on the four bureaucrats. Ravikumar Surpur: The strategistAfter helming some of the biggest BBMP projects and overseeing 83 primary health centres, Ravikumar Surpur, special commissioner, major projects and health, says he finds his new responsibilities exciting as well has challenging. Surpur has trained nearly 500 officials in anti-Covid-19 operations and put in place the first response mechanism in case of outbreak in any locality. “They immediately activate the containment protocol, beginning with isolating the primary and secondary contacts and ensuring their health is monitored daily,” he explains. The surgeon-turned-bureaucrat’s day begins much before he leaves home in his car. Calls from his officials keep him tuned in to the happenings on the ground 24x7. Surpur says his biggest challenge is to keep his team motivated and positive. “Often, medical staff themselves fear contracting the infection. Boosting their confidence is most important. After working together for over 2 months, they are now my extended family,” says Surpur. D Randeep: The taskmasterWhen Bengaluru witnessed Covid-19 cases and shut down, everyone thought BBMP’s solid waste management could be its Achilles’ heel. But, the SWM machinery has not only risen to the occasion but is also working proactively in Covid-19 containment programmes. Helming BBMP’s SWM operations is D Randeep, special commissioner, who starts work at 6.30am. That is the hour when the legions of his footsoldiers – 17,000 pourakarmikas, 5,000 waste collectors and hundreds of other health workers – are sweeping the city and spraying disinfectant in every nook and corner to ensure the SARS-CoV-2 virus has no chance to spread. “My entire team has not taken a day’s break since March 1 and doesn’t intend to do so till the pandemic is eradicated,” he says. Randeep, whose three-month-old son and 10-year-old daughter are staying away from him as a precautionary measure, says, “My daughter considers me a superhero, which gives me more confidence.” Lokesh M: The sentinelMy family is worried I may be a carrier of the virus. But work is worship and they respect my priorities,” says Lokesh M, special commissioner, finance, and surveillance officer. After beginning his day with a walk to purchase milk, Lokesh plunges headlong into his surveillance duties. “My task is to monitor the city and ensure everyone in home quarantine adheres to the protocol,” he says. As on April 9, over 4,500 primary and secondary contacts were on the BBMP radar and most of them were in home quarantine. Lokesh says his biggest challenge is to keep the morale of both quarantined citizens and doctors high. “Some doctors get paranoid about house-to-house visits,” he says. Lokesh visits at least 20 homes a day to keep people motivated. His biggest regret is that many people in quarantine refuse to understand the gravity of the matter. Hephsiba Rani Korlapati: The warriorIAS officer Hephsiba Rani Korlapati, managing director, Smart City Bengaluru Limited, is in charge of BBMP’s Covid-19 war room. She sits in the war room from 7am to 11pm, deconstructing data from the field, coming up with projection models to help fine-tune the strategy and disseminating information. Box: BH Anil Kumar: The helmsmanIf the Covid-19 incidence in Bengaluru is nowhere near cities like Delhi and Mumbai, the credit goes to BBMP. Heading the Palike’s efforts is its commissioner, BH Anil Kumar, a 1987 batch IAS officer of Karnataka cadre. Kumar spends most of his waking hours coordinating between various departments of the government and his rank and file working round the clock. From monitoring international travellers and contacts of the infected to ensuring supply of food grains to stranded migrants and coordinating with police on isolating Tablighi Jamaat delegates, he’s in the thick of it all. “Sometimes, my special commissioners are worried I may contract the virus and infect them. They keep forcing me to take a break,” says Kumar. BBMP’s Covid-19 war room to monitor the incidence, spread and trail of infection was his brainchild. The nation’s first such endeavour has been appreciated by PM Narendra Modi himself.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/commissioner-quartet-lead-bbmps-fight-against-covid-19/articleshow/75088583.cms||Nithya Mandyam
April 11, 2020||Thiruvananthapuram||Lift curbs gradually, KGMOA urges CM||Thiruvananthapuram: Kerala Government Medical Officers’ Association (KGMOA) has urged chief minister Pinarayi Vijayan to relax restrictions gradually once the lockdown is lifted so as to avoid a second wave of coronavirus cases. The association, in a letter to the CM, signalled the dangers that might arise from the immediate relaxation of curbs. It said that since in several states and countries the spread of Covid-19 has not yet been contained, opening up the state to rail and air traffic soon after the lockdown would pose a major threat. It urged the chief minister retain curbs on mass gatherings and the inflow of people from other countries and states. It would be better to continue the present restrictions for another two weeks, the association said. KGMOA also stressed the need for community surveillance. World Health Organization and Indian Council of Medical Research have advised rapid tests to rule out community spreads, it said. “Hence, it is advisable to take samples of people in lower-risk categories who had come into direct contact with infected persons. It has to be remembered that even people who had no symptoms have tested positive of Covid-19. Hence we should not take any risk in this case and test even the low risk people despite any symptoms,” the letter said. It urged the government to introduce telemedicine facilities at the primary level and rural areas since most of the people in these areas are dependent on the public health sector. It would be also advisable if out-patient departments of primary and community healthcare centres function from 9am to 2pm to check overcrowding in hospitals. The health caregivers are also at risk due to the mass gathering of people in hospitals, the KGMOA said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/thiruvananthapuram/lift-curbs-gradually-kgmoa-urges-cm/articleshow/75087359.cms||---
April 11, 2020||Ahmedabad||Gujarat for phased easing of lockdown||GANDHINAGAR: Unlike many other states which have sought continuation of the ongoing lockdown, the Gujarat government has recommended easing the lockdown in a phased manner. A high-level committee worked out the modalities of the proposed phase-wise easing of the lockdown and the report has been sent to the government of India. The ongoing lockdown, necessitated by the Covid-19 pandemic, is scheduled to end on April 14.  The Gujarat government has proposed lifting of the lockdown in three phases, with each phase lasting over a period of 10 days. Thus, the state government has suggested complete lifting of the lockdown over a period of one month even as Gujarat has been witnessing a sharp increase in locally transmitted cases of coronavirus. A top source in the state government said the suggestions made to the Centre are mere recommendations and the Union government will take a final call on the fate of the lockdown after April 14. The gujarat government has proposed that the state be divided into three zones – green, yellow and red – based on the number of Covid-19 positive cases and number of people quarantined. It has recommended permitting movement in the green zone, restricting free movement in the yellow zone and prohibiting any movement in the red zone. The state government has also proposed that industrial and commercial activity connected with essential commodities be allowed in the first phase of easing of the lockdown. Other industrial and commercial activities can resume in the second and third phase with adherence to all safety and precautionary guidelines, the report said. The report also says that schools, colleges and educational institutions could start functioning from the second and third phase of lifting of the lockdown. The government has suggested that public transportation within cities should remain shut until the lockdown is completely lifted, while airlines and trains ought to be allowed to operate in the third phase of easing of the lockdown. Malls and multiplexes should remain closed until the lockdown is completely lifted, the state government has proposed. A top government official said the suggestions have been made keeping in mind the current status of the pandemic spread and the economic challenges faced by the government because of the lockdown. “A decision on the lockdown and whether it should be lifted in a phased manner will be taken by Centre. If the central government extends the lockdown, the state government will abide by the decision. We have conveyed our phased lockdown lifting plan to them,” the official said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/state-for-phased-easing-of-lockdown/articleshow/75088835.cms||Kapil Dave
April 11, 2020||Kolkata||Kolkata: Police step in as blind school runs out of rations||KOLKATA: Almost 100 blind students, all of them boarders at a residential school in Haridevpur, are banking on their “police uncles” to arrange for essential commodities. With their rations depleting fast and no money left, the school has sent out an SOS, seeking help for 96 students of classes I to XII, matrons, hostel staffers and security personnel. After a netizen drew police commissioner Anuj Sharma’s attention to the school’s plight, cops from the Haridevpur police station, along with the rest of the southwest (Behala) police division, have spent almost 30 hours since Thursday evening, trying to arrange for provisions with the help of NGOs. “We will stand by these children. They are our future. All arrangements should be made by Saturday. An one-time relief has been provided. But we are looking at a long-term solution so that the children do not face problems during the lockdown,” said DC (southwest) Nilanjan Biswas. By Friday, local police got several kilograms of rice, pulses and potato delivered to the institute. According to the police, the students staying at the hostel of D F Blind School at the Kabardanga crossing are mainly from north Bengal, Jangalmahal and Jharkhand. On March 31, the school secretary, Jabesh Dutt, and principal Kaberi Das wrote to local councillors and NGOs, asking for help. “We have limited ration to feed them. We are very much worried what will happen after that. We can’t send the children back home as many of them are from Jharkhand and north Bengal. We, the board members, want you to pray for us and tell us if there is anyone who can provide us food to keep these blind children alive...” the note stated. A Twitter user, @blabberingsoul, forwarded a photocopy to Kolkata Police. “We did not get any help till April 9. After the residents learnt about the children’s plight did help started coming in,” said an assistant hostel warden. Principal Das said, “Ever since people learnt about our children’s distress, someone or the other has pitched in. We are grateful that the cops have stepped in. My children will remember them all.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/police-step-in-as-blind-school-runs-out-of-rations/articleshow/75088833.cms||Dwaipayan Ghosh
April 11, 2020||Delhi||Demand to shift isolation centre from Delhi's Gulabi Bagh||NEW DELHI: A Covid-19 quarantine centre at a school in the middle of Gulabi Bagh colony has left its over 15,000 residents — Delhi government employees and their families — scared. The situation was made worse by two persons with the Tablighi Jamaat link when they unsuccessfully tried to escape from the centre two days ago. In a letter to lieutenant governor Anil Baijal and chief minister Arvind Kejriwal, the Delhi government employees welfare association has now demanded that the centre be shifted to a less populated area. Over 100 Covid-19-suspected people with links to the Alami Markaz, the Tablighi Jamaat headquarters, have been staying in the centre for over four days. “The employees staying in the colony are engaged in essential services like food and civil supplies, weight and measures department, fire services, SDM office. The centre exposes them and their families to health risk,” said Umesh Batra, general secretary of the association. The colony has around 2,500 flats. People got more tensed after hearing about the unruly behaviour by Tablighi members in some other centres. The gates around the school have been heavily barricaded and police personnel have been deployed, a resident said. “We have heard that more people will be brought to this centre,” he added. Another resident questioned the decision to use the school as a quarantine centre. A central district official said it was natural for people to get anxious. “But they should not panic. No Covid-19 patient is staying in the school. It is only housing suspected people and regular tests are being conducted,” said the official. The decision was not taken arbitrarily but after considering multiple aspects, he added. Delhi now has 16 quarantine centres where 2,565 people have been kept under observation as a measure to check the spread of novel corona coronavirus.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/demand-to-shift-isolation-centre-from-gulabi-bagh/articleshow/75088842.cms||AlokKNMishra
April 11, 2020||Nagpur||3-month-old from Akola is Vid’s youngest Covid-19 patient||Nagpur: Four family-members of Akola’s first Covid-19 patient tested positive on late Thursday night. They include 60-year-old wife of the patient, his 30-year-old son, five year old grandson and a three-and-a-half month old baby boy from the family – another grandson of the patient. This infant is Vidarbha’s youngest Covid-19 patient yet. Akola district collector Rajendra Papalkar informed that entire Baidpura area has been sealed since three days. “Apart from this, Akot Fail area where second patient was detected is also sealed. We have identified the high risk contacts of both patients from Akola city and their samples will be tested now,” he said. On Friday, Union minister Sanjay Dhotre, who is also a member of parliament from Akola, said that local GMCH will start testing swab samples from Saturday. “Covid-19 testing facility at GMCH Akola will start from April 11. Samples from Akola, Buldhana and Washim will be tested here from tomorrow,” said Dhotre. This will save time and effort on institutional quarantine activity, he added. Buldhana now has 17 cases of Covid-19, including one death. Eleven close contacts of these patients were tested at AIIMS Nagpur on Friday and all of them were negative. Apart from this, AIIMS Nagpur lab checked 37 samples from Yavatmal and three from Amravati. None of them was positive. A 23-year-old patient from Gondia, who was tested positive on March 27 will be completing 14-day quarantine on April 11. He is most likely to get discharged on Saturday as he has tested negative twice during his stay. Bhandara and Wardha are the two districts in Nagpur division where not a single positive patient has been recorded till date. More than 100 samples from these two districts have been tested negative so far. Six positive in Chanda was fake news: District authorities have breathed sigh of relief after all six Covid-19 reports awaited by health department turned out to be negative on Friday. Health department had hurriedly collected samples of six people, including five members of a recently died person and a doctor who had treated him after a private lab report allegedly suggested he could be positive for Covid-19. Civil Surgeon, Dr ND Rathod informed the report of the person who had died at Mayo Hospital Nagpur on April 30, had turned out to be negative at government authorized lab. He maintained that any private lab report gathered by private doctor cannot be considered after authorized report from government lab has tested negative. Still as a precautionary measure, samples of five family members of the person and the private doctor from Chandrapur, who had treated him, were taken and sent for testing. 33k under home quarantine in Yavatmal: Total 33,045 residents of 7078 households in Ward no 10 and 20 of Yavatmal Municipal Council comprising Jafar Nagar, Memon Society and Indira Nagar are now under home quarantine. The stamping on their hands to display their status has been started. A positive patient in Yavatmal was initially admitted in the male intensive care unit (MICU) and over 44 staffers including doctors and staff nurses treated him. They all have been sent to institutional quarantine. Twenty three persons are sent to the Dhamangaon Road based Govt girls hostel while 44 are kept in Boys Hostel of GMC Yavatmal. AMRAVATI: Even though the district has not reported any new Covid-19 case save the four (including one dead) of a Hathipura family, the district administration is leaving no stone unturned to control the pandemic. District collector Shailesh Naval said that during the special health check-up drive, 24 lakh people were contacted and around 21,000 were found suffering from cold, cough and/or fever. Not every case is coronavirus, but we are providing treatment to all and have opened 118 fever clinics in the district, he said. He urged people to get themselves examined at these clinics if they develop cough, cold or fever.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/3-month-old-from-akola-is-vids-youngest-covid-19-patient/articleshow/75088840.cms||---
April 11, 2020||Vijayawada||APERC okays interim bill for low tension consumers||VIJAYAWADA: The Andhra Pradesh Electricity Regulatory Commission (APERC) on Friday has issued permission to discoms to issue the bill in April provisionally as per the bill raised in March 2020 for all the low tension (LT) consumers. With the lockdown in place due to Covid-19 pandemic, the state’s distribution companies--APSPDCL, APEPDCL and APCPDCL—had made a request to the commission that they were unable to deploy meter readers to take meter readings of LT services within the stipulated time. APERC chairman Justice C V Nagarjuna Reddy held a meeting with commission members T Rama singh and P Rajagopal Reddy on the request of discoms and gave the permission. The commission also made it clear that the acceptance is, however, subject to the further orders as may be passed after restoration of normal situation.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/aperc-okays-interim-bill-for-lt-consumers/articleshow/75087350.cms||---
April 11, 2020||Bareilly||7,000 arrested in Bareilly zone forviolating lockdown since March 25||Bareilly: Around 2,100 cases have been registered and 7,284 individuals were held by the police for violating Covid-19 lockdown in Bareilly zone since March 25. The maximum number of cases were from Moradabad district. Here, 767 cases were registered and 2,118 people have been arrested. In Bareilly, 300 cases were registered and 1,350 people were arrested. Moradabad has recorded nearly 30 per cent of the total cases in the zone's nine districts. Additional director general of police, Avinash Chandra, has instructed all the SSPs to ensure compliance of lockdown in their respective districts and take necessary action against the violators. Residents of areas identified as hotspots which have been sealed by police can always dial helpline '112'. Movement is strictly restricted in "Covid-19 hotspot" zones. “Since the beginning of the lockdown, people are looking for opportunities to get out on the roads. Sometimes it is difficult to keep youngsters at home. They roam around on their bikes for no reason. Many a times we give them warning, but they hardly listen. So, we even have to seize their bikes and sometimes book them under section 188 of IPC ," said an inspector in Bareilly. Police have challaned nearly 1,200 vehicles and collected Rs 20 lakh as fines till April 9 in Bareilly district alone. But, people continue to violate the lockdown, the inspector said. At least 1,392 have been arrested in Pilibhit district as people assembled in large numbers in marketplaces, and also attended social gatherings. Additional SP (crime) RK Bhartiya told TOI on Friday, “We always request people to obey the lockdown guidelines. They should only come out of their houses if it is urgent. Dial '112' is working and district administration is ready to reach out to anyone in need. Even I carry essential food items on my vehicle and share it with the needy.” “Those charged under IPC section 188 (disobedience to order duly promulgated by public servant) - a bailable offence - are given bail from the area police stations," he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/7000-arrested-in-bareilly-zone-forviolating-lockdown-since-march-25/articleshow/75088285.cms||Kanwardeep Singh
April 11, 2020||Kolkata||They step out in lockdown to take provisions to needy||KOLKATA: At a time, when almost the entire nation has been forced to stay indoors to minimise the spread of novel coronavirus, some have set their own safety aside and stepped out so that the poor, who have lost their livelihood in the lockdown, the stranded migrants and the homeless can get their basic provisions. The “Humans of Patuli” have joined hands to stand by the unorganized-sector workers and daily wage earners in the neighbourhood. “No one should go hungry because of the lockdown. We are crowd-funding to source and distribute rice, dal, soya bean, potato, onion and sanitary napkins among families. In future, we might need to source cooking oil, spices and nutrition for pregnant and lactating mothers,” said one of the organizers, Kasturi Basu, urging all citizens to do their bit and assist their neighbours. The group has already helped out more than 300 families in and around Baishnabghata and Patuli and it looks to send provisions to more. While this group is catering to the needs of the poor in the city, Debojit Thakur of “Quarantined Student-Youth Network” has been helping out migrants from Bengal and other states stranded in Delhi. The ex-student of Presidency University, along with Bablu Middey, Md Wahid, Parvez Alam and others in Delhi, has been reaching rations to migrants, temporarily stuck in Delhi’s Hauz Rani, Shahpur Jat, Khirki extension, Lajpat Nagar, Chirag Delhi and Sadar Bajar. “We are identifying more and more workers stranded in Delhi. We get innumerable SOSes every day. We are trying to reach out to every one with a ration kit, comprising 2kg rice, 2kg potato, 1kg dal, 1kg onion, 300 ml refined oil and a packet of salt, which should last them 10-14 days. We are also giving out baby food and sanitary napkins,” said Thakur, urging citizens to help them raise funds as “it is political and social responsibility to stand beside these people who are fighting a battle not just against the virus, but also against hunger”. Ex-Presidency student Sargam Sharma in Delhi and ex-JU student Nadia Imam in Kolkata are helping him collect and streamline data on migrants. Back in the city, Women’s Solidarity Network, along with a few other groups, has been distributing rice, pulses, potato and sanitary napkins to households in Behala to Girish Park to Salt Lake. Feminist platform Dhorshok Tumi-i has created 500 kits containing 500gm sattu, soaps, 2 sachets of ORS and 4 packets of sanitary napkins, for women, mothers and their children. The kits will be handed to various organisations to reach them to the needy.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/they-step-out-in-lockdown-to-take-provisions-to-needy/articleshow/75088843.cms||Dipawali Mitra
April 11, 2020||Vijayawada||Anantapur DMHO drinks disinfectant by mistake||TIRUPATI: The district medical and health officer (DMHO) of Anantapur has been hospitalised for consuming disinfectant by mistaking it for drinking water. Sources in the district administration said on Thursday evening, Anil Kumar asked for drinking water but was handed over Formalin-mixed water by mistake. He realised the gaffe of his staff only after taking a couple of gulps of the disinfectant. The DMHO was immediately rushed him to a private hospital and administered the required treatment.  He is stated to be out of danger and is likely to be discharged soon. District collector Gandham Chandrudu, local legislator A Venkatarami Reddy and other officials visited the hospital and enquired about his health. Doctors said there was nothing to worry about as only a little quantity of Formalin was mixed with the water.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/anantapur-dmho-drinks-disinfectant-by-mistake/articleshow/75087354.cms||Sandeep Raghavan
April 11, 2020||Hubballi||SWR gets ready 312 isolation coaches||Hubballi: South Western Railway (SWR) has prepared 312 isolation coaches (80,000-bed capacity) in 10 days. Announcing this after inspecting the coaches here on Friday, Suresh Angadi, minister of state for railways, said that Indian Railways is readying 20,000 isolation coaches following a direction from Prime Minister Narendra Modi. “In the first phase, 5,000 sleeper coaches have been converted as isolation coaches. They will be used to treat persons tested positive for Covid-19,” he stated. “SWR is prepared to fight Covid-19. All passenger trains have been cancelled and goods trains are on track to transport essential goods. Railwaymen are working 24x7 to run goods trains and to ready isolation coaches as per the medical standards,” he added. Angadi, accompanied by district minister Jagadish Shettar, reviewed the coaches and congratulated the staff involved in getting them ready. MLA Arvind Bellad, SWR general manager Ajay Kumar Singh and others were present.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hubballi/swr-gets-ready-312-isolation-coaches/articleshow/75087356.cms||---
April 11, 2020||Hyderabad||Telangana cops use app to catch those breaching 3km norm||HYDERABAD: Beware of travelling more than 3 kms from you home as the Telangana police have started using Lockdown Violators Tracking app for stopping and taking action against unnecessary movement of citizens during the lockdown period. Based on geolocation, cops will identify people who travel for more than 3 kilometres radius from their residence and if they fail to show a valid reason, action is being initiated against them under Section 188 of IPC as per the provision of Epidemic Diseases Act. Telangana Police IT Cell officials said it is an automated process for generation of violations. Cameras are used to capture vehicle numbers and systems will calculate whether the vehicle is beyond the 3km radius by using machine learning techniques. “This real-time app helps us to control the unnecessary movement of citizens who are coming out and crossing the 3 kilometres radius from his/her location. We can spot repeat violators through this app. All field officers have been asked to download & install this Android app,” said an official. “Initially we enter the mobile or Aadhaar, driving licence/vehicle number/any other ID card number, name and purpose of coming out of the person and save the data for the first time. The geolocation of that place will be captured automatically. When the same person comes out, then we need to enter his/her mobile/Aadhaar/driving licence/vehicle/any other ID card number only and click on history. In that history, we can see how many times he/she came out along with the geolocation. If the person is coming out beyond the stipulated 3 kilometres, this app gives a pop-up messageindicating that the citizen has travelled above 3kms,” P Ravindra Prasad, Cyberabad Inspector of Police IT Cell, told TOI.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/cops-use-app-to-catch-those-breaching-3km-norm/articleshow/75088845.cms||U Sudhakar Reddy
April 11, 2020||Bareilly||Girl attacks youth's private part after molestation bid||Meerut: A girl of Saharanpur's Fatehpur Jatowala village attacked her molester with a sharp object inflicting severe injuries on his private part. According to police, the youth identified as Akshay, who got married two months ago, had allegedly barged into the girl's house. The girl was alone at the time of the attack on Thursday evening. "In a bid to resist molestation, the girl picked up a sharp object, most likely a blade, and attacked the youth's private part," Saharanpur SSP Dinesh Kumar P said. The youth, under immense pain, ran out of the house and approached a local hospital for medical aid. According to sources, the youth received more than 20 stitches. His condition is said to be stable. Police received complaint from both sides, but FIR has been registered based on the girl's complaint. "Prima facie, the youth was the one who barged into the house of the girl and later she attacked in self-defence. We have registered a case against the youth based on the girl's complaint," the SSP Saharanpur added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/girl-attacks-youths-private-part-after-molestation-bid/articleshow/75088314.cms||---
April 11, 2020||Delhi||Delhi: ‘Students barred from online classes over fee’||NEW DELHI: The National Commission for Protection of Child Rights (NCPCR) has sent a notice to the education department following a parent’s complaint that a private school is keeping some students out of online classes over non-payment of fees. The complaint was filed after several students were allegedly not provided the login credentials for online classes, started in the first week of April, by Apeejay School, Saket. “The school has increased the fees without the approval of the directorate of education (DoE). It has sent us a bill of more than Rs 1 lakh, including arrears. We proposed to pay the fees as per the earlier slab but the school is not ready to listen,” the complainant told TOI. Around 200 parents have refused to pay the fees and their children haven’t been given login details, he alleged. The schools built on government land can’t increase fees without DoE’s approval. A few other parents said even if they could get the lessons from others, their children had been barred from classes. “We have tried to contact the class teacher and subject teachers, but didn’t get any response,” said one of them. Referring to the fee issue, NCPCR chairperson Priyank Kanoongo directed in the notice that “any such matter of contention between parents and the school authorities... should be sorted out amicably between parents and school”. The commission has asked the school to exercise caution during the lockdown period and advised it to defer such issues till the normalisation of situation as matters of schooling “can adversely affect the mental health of the children”. School principal Smita Amit, however, claimed all students would get online access, though it might “take some time for all of us to get used to the virtual world”. The school is taking regular feedback from parents and students, and a team is always available to answer any related query, she added. “There could be some external factors, technology- or user-related, that might be preventing them or causing disruptions,” the principal said. According to the statement, DoE has permitted the school to collect fees as per the 2019-20 structure, pending formal approval. “The issue of pending fees and online classes are mutually exclusive,” it claimed. Following NCPCR’s directive, DoE director Binay Bhushan said, “I am getting details and we will issue a notice to the school.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/students-barred-from-online-classes-over-fee/articleshow/75089374.cms||Shradha Chettri
April 11, 2020||Aurangabad||Attack on traffic cop: New videos contradict claims made by police||Aurangabad: A day after city police arrested four people for assaulting a traffic policeman at Anna Bhau Sathe Chowk, a series of videos have come forward showing the traffic policeman in question was the first to hit the suspects.It was only after the traffic policeman violated the standing orders of Director General of Police (DGP) Subodh Kumar to not use force against the citizens, one of the accused snatched the baton from him and retaliated.Another video shows that a police team after detaining the suspects took them to the spot at around 1.30 pm and started thrashing them with batons. The accused were also kicked on their faces.The FIR against the accused – Shaikh Farooq (50), his sons Shahrukh (24) and Shahzeb (23), their accomplice Sameer Salim Shaikh (20) – was lodged at 5.50pm following which they were arrested. On Friday, they were produced before a court that remanded them in four-day police custody.Authorities have confirmed that after some videos showing policemen caning people during the current lockdown went viral on social media, commissioner of police Chiranjeev Prasad had asked the police to abstain from using force and also warned of stringent action for using unwarranted force against the citizens.When contacted, Prasad said, “We are against any unwarranted use of force by anyone. We are probing the incident from all the possible angles, and no guilty would be spared. It is an unfortunate incident.”It has also come to fore that the videos released on Thursday were edited and only highlighted the part where the traffic policemen was assaulted by one of the accused (Shahrukh).On Thursday, Shahzeb along with Sameer and another minor friend were heading towards Annabhau Sathe Chowk when they were hit by the traffic cop with his baton at a checkpoint. Owing to this Shahzeb lost control of his bike, but somehow managed to stop his vehicle near Delhi Gate police chowky.The trio then went to the check point to ask why they were hit. In the meantime Shahzeb also called his brother Shahrukh, who reached the spot with his father. Following this a scuffle broke out during which two traffic constables started canning them.A video shows clearly depicts that as the scuffle broke out, Farooq was trying to calm his sons down as well as the policemen. He even snatched a baton when one of the constables tried to hit his son.It can also be seen in the video that only two women constables intervened and saved their colleague, while other policemen remained mute spectators.Meanwhile, Aurangabad commissioner of police on Friday morning came down heavily on some media personnel trying to give a communal colour to the Thursday’s incident.“We’ll not tolerate anyone giving communal colour to any incident,” Prasad said.The officer lost his cool after a photo journalist posted a communal comment in a WhatsApp group, comprising senior police officers and journalists.Responding to the message, Prasad posted: “Please don’t give communal colour to everything. Don’t throw your observation as if they are coming from less-educated people. All accused have been arrested and action is being taken. We have taken strong action in other cases, including hate videos. Aurangabad is a sensitive city and communal harmony is at its level best. Please don’t underestimate common public and police. A few wayward people will be set right.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/attack-on-traffic-cop-new-videos-contradict-claims-made-by-police/articleshow/75088309.cms||Mohammed Akhef
April 11, 2020||Kolkata||Kolkata attends online Good Friday services||KOLKATA: Archbishop Thomas D Souza and Bishop Paritosh Canning, the heads of the Roman Catholic Church and the Church of North India, respectively, conducted special Good Friday services online to address more than a lakh in the city and abroad in this time of lockdown. This year, the churches are shut and the traditional prayers conducted by the respective parish priests during the Holy Week are not being held because of the social-distancing mandate. This gap is being filled by Canning and D Souza. They, however, urged parishioners to conduct the traditional prayers surrounding the “Veneration of the Cross” in their homes, apart from following the liturgies online. Jesus died on the cross but he accepted it so he could rid humanity of its sins and this act should be our guiding light as we bear one of the biggest sufferings that has come upon mankind now in the form of the corona pandemic — this formed the gist of D Souza’s message. Canning, on the other hand, focu-sed on what the Cross represents and how each of us bears our own. Both spiritual leaders urged parishioners not to lose focus from their prayers as that will “ultimately bring deliverance”. “We are nailing Jesus everyday by not standing up for truth. We will have to give up pride, betrayal, envy, cruelty and hatred,” Canning advised. He even played the violin while hymns were sung as part of the service. D Souza asked his audience not to lose hope even though coronavirus has brought with it deathly fears. “Jesus overcame death and suffering and emerged triumphant. In the midst of the pandemic we need to turn towards him,” D Souza said. Vicar general Dominic Gomes said he was flooded with congratulatory messages from the worshippers as they felt “connected” despite the lockdown. “We could not have gone through the Holy Week if we didn’t have the online services,” wrote in Corina Williams, a parishioner from Ripon Street. Many at Bow Barracks sat on their balconies and prayed along as the online service played on their mobile phones.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/city-attends-online-good-friday-services/articleshow/75088853.cms||Jhimli Mukherjee Pandey
April 11, 2020||Nagpur||Raid on hotel finds 60 Metro workers, NMC issues notice||Nagpur: Acting on a tip-off, a team of Nagpur Municipal Corporation (NMC) Gandhibagh Zone raided a hotel situated on Central Avenue (CA) and found 60 labourers staying there. They had been working with a private agency engaged in Metro Rail works. The civic body has served a show cause notice on the owner of the hotel asking why action should not be taken under Epidemic Diseases Act. NMC Zonal Medical Officer Dr Khwaja Moinuddin told TOI, “One of the 60 labourers was having fever, cough and cold. We were shocked when we saw him and shifted him to Mayo Hospital on Thursday. Reports of the labourer are awaited,” he said. Moinuddin added the 60 labourers were accommodated in the hotel as Metro Rail works stopped with implementation of lockdown. “State government and NMC issued notifications directing close down of many establishments including hotel. The owner of the hotel did not inform NMC about accommodation given to 60 labourers. We are yet to receive reply from owner to the notice. NMC and police will take action,” he said. Moinuddin said the labourers have been asked to stay at the same hotel till reports of the ailing labourer are received. “The labourers are from various states. It is learnt that six labourers arrived here from New Delhi a couple of days before the lockdown,” he said. Municipal commissioner Tukaram Mundhe had implemented complete lockdown in the city from March 21 onwards following directives from the state government.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/raid-on-hotel-finds-60-metro-workers-nmc-issues-notice/articleshow/75088847.cms||Anjaya Anparthi
April 11, 2020||Bareilly||Eight-year-old girl raped in Amroha||Bijnor: An eight-year-old girl was raped allegedly raped by a youth of her village in Amroha's Hasanpur area on Thursday night. The girl was found in a neighbouring village on Friday morning. A case was registered against the accused under IPC section 376(rape) and provisions of the POCSO Act. According to the complaint filed by the survivor's family members, the girl went missing on Thursday evening when her parents had gone out. She was washing utensils when a man, Pawan Kumar, 24, arrived on a bike and offered her money if she went on a ride with him. The accused drove into a jungle and allegedly raped her. When she fell unconscious, he left her at the spot. After regaining consciousness, she wandered into a village under Hasanpur police station area on the intervening night of Thursday and Friday. She started shouting for help when she saw some villagers,who came to her aid. She narrated her ordeal to the villagers, who called her parents. They brought her home and approached police. On Friday, Amroha's additional superintendent of police Ajay Pratap Singh said a case has been registered against the accused, who is on the run A probe is on, he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/eight-year-old-girl-raped-in-amroha/articleshow/75088341.cms||Harveer Dabas
April 11, 2020||Jaipur||Rajasthan: Man clangs plate, beaten to death||JAISALMER: Beating plates during the Janata curfew recently cost a man his life. One Rewat Singh (30) was cheering for the corona warriors on March 22 at his home in Madava village near Pokhran when a group of men from another community objected to his action. Jaisalmer SP Kiran Kang said that police on Friday arrested Dildar Khan under IPC Section 302 and sent Bhaniyana police station in-charge Shankar Lal to lines for carelessness. According to the information, Mahindra Singh gave a report at Bhaniyana police station that on April 4 he along with his uncle Rewat Singh was going to Jaimla Road on two motorcycles. Suddenly, Dildar Khan, Firoz and Iqbal started chasing them and stopped them. They beat up Rewat Singh with a stick. He was seriously injured and rushed to Bhaniyala hospital from where he was referred to Jodhpur. Rewat was in coma for five days in Jodhpur and died on Thursday evening.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/man-clangs-plate-beaten-to-death/articleshow/75088877.cms||---
April 11, 2020||Bhopal||Chouhan directs for best treatment for patients||Bhopal: Chief minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan said that best remedial activities must be undertaken in the state to protect people against Coronavirus and arrangements must be made to ensure best treatment to patients. Those who show signs of Covid-19 must be tested immediately. Hotspots identified in the infected districts must be totally sealed and supply of essential commodities, milk, medicines should be ensured through the district administration. Chief minister Chouhan was Reviewing the situation in the state and arrangements through video conferencing with senior officials in Mantralaya on Friday, chief minister directed that the hot-spot areas of 15 Corona-affected districts in the state should be totally sealed. Corona affected Bhopal, Indore and Ujjain have already been sealed. Supplies of essential commodities, medicines, milk in hot-spot areas will be ensured through the district administration and traffic in these areas will be completely restricted. It was brought to the notice of the chief minister that most of the Coronavirus patients of the state are recovering and returning home. On Friday, 16 Coronavirus patients from Indore have been discharged after recovery and 10 more patients will be discharged on Saturday. Meanwhile, a total of 46 areas of 15 districts of the state have been declared hot spots. Here cases of Coronavirus infection have been detected. Eight areas of Jabalpur district, 6 of Gwalior district, 5 of Khargone district, one of Morena, one of Shivpuri, 5 of Barwani, one of Betul, two of Vidisha, one of Sheopur, five of Chhindwara, one of Raisen, three of Hoshangabad, 2 of Khandwa, one of Dhar and 4 areas of Dewas district have been declared hot spots. Instructions have been given to seal all these areas. Additional chief secretary health Mohammad Suleman said that the number of Corona virus patients in the state has risen to 397, out of which 24 people have died. The number of infected patients is 221 in Indore, 98 in Bhopal, 11 in Ujjain and 12 each in Morena, Khargone and Barwani. These districts are more infected with Coronavirus. Chief secretary Iqbal Singh Bains informed that the Coronavirus testing capacity of the state has been increased to 1050 per day. Sufficient testing kits are available and adequate number of PPE kits are also being made available. The chief minister directed that arrangements for treatment of common diseases have been made online by doctors from all over the country through telemedicine. Collectors in all districts should provide benefits of these services to the people and local doctors should also be linked to it. During the meeting, Mohammad Suleman presented a detailed action plan “State Response Strategy Covid-19” to address the Corona crisis in the state through a power point presentation. The chief ninister gave instructions to implement the action plan effectively in the state in accordance with the instructions of Government of India and ICMR guidelines.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/chouhan-directs-for-best-treatment-for-patients/articleshow/75088349.cms||---
April 11, 2020||Nagpur||NMSSS distributes food packets on Good Friday||Nagpur: On the occasion of Good Friday, Nagpur Multipurpose Social Service Society (NMSSS), a wing of Archdiocese of Nagpur, with the help of Ram Gotivada and his apartment colleagues distributed over 300 food packets to the migrant workers who were stranded because of coronavirus lockdown. Archbishop of Nagpur Rev Elias Gonsalves blessed the food and poor to meet their day’s end. Sharing his view about the initiative director of NMSSS Fr Balraj Madanu, “We spent our Good Friday by distributing over 300 food packets to the migrants who were stuck in the city. We wanted to spread the message that Lord Jesus has come by himself to meet the needs of the needy and bless them with his blessings and love.” This year the services at the churches were carried via online mode. The services were streamed on the respective YouTube, Facebook and Zoom application.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/nmsss-distributes-food-packets-on-good-friday/articleshow/75087373.cms||Shreya Tinkhede
April 11, 2020||Ajmer||Rajasthan: Two attempt suicide, man under home quarantine dies||AJMER: Two persons on Friday attempted suicide in which one was in home quarantine and died while another was said to be alcoholic and had had a dispute with his wife who left him. According to police, Vijay Narwani, 35, a resident of Ramganj, stabbed himself several times with a knife and even cut the veins of his hand. He was admitted to JLN Hospital and his condition is critical. His relatives said that he was in depression from a very long time. He was alone and his wife was away because of a conflict. He was addicted to drinking. Ramganj police have registered a case and investigation is underway. In another incident, 25-year-old Mushtak, a resident of Juniya village in Kekri, who was under home quarantine, hanged himself in his room on Thursday night. His body was found by his relatives on Friday morning. Relatives told police that Mushtak was in depression and was home quarantined as he had come from outside Rajasthan. Police have registered a case and sent the body for post-mortem. They also took his samples for coronavirus test. He was the only son in the family and was a taxi driver by profession. His widowed mother worked as a labourer in the village.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ajmer/2-attempt-suicide-man-under-home-quarantine-dies/articleshow/75088874.cms||---
April 11, 2020||Bareilly||Stripes show rubber factory tigress is from Kishanpur: Officials||Bareilly: A tigress that has made the defunct rubber factory in Bareilly its den for more than a month now was last spotted in Kishanpur Wildlife Sanctuary of Dudhwa Tiger Reserve (DTR) in 2018.Officials have identified the tigress after matching its stripes from national repository.Field director of DTR Sanjay Pathak, who will be in Bareilly on Saturday, told TOI, “After matching the stripes of the tigress that has taken shelter in the rubber factory, we learnt that it hails from DTR’s Kishanpur Wildlife Sanctuary. The record of this tigress was created in 2018.It seems that it left Kishanpur in search of new territory and reached Bareilly via Pilibhit.It has taken refuge at the forest-like rubber factory, where there is least disturbance, abundance of prey, water and places to hide.According to officials, as the crow flies, Kishanpur Sanctuary is nearly 150 km from Bareilly.The factory is around 18 km from the city.Divisional forest officer, Bareilly, Bharat Lal said, “Field director of DTR will access the situation and guide us on what steps should be taken for tranquilizing the tigress.”He added that the Dudhwa team will also bring a drone camera and cage vehicle for transportong thetigress once it is tranquilized.Earlier, a veterinarian from Kanpur zoo and a team from Wildlife Trust of India (WTI) had come to Bareilly to help the forest department in tranquilizing the big cat. However, after cases of Covid-19 started increasing across the country, the WTI team left Bareilly.Forest officials said after examining camera traps installed in the rubber factory, they learnt that the tigress prefers to rest in an old building of the rubber factory where machines were kept. It comes around the limestone room to prey on wild animals,” said Lal.Though forest department has placed a trap in limestone room with an auto-closing door, the tigress is yet to enter the room.This is not the first time that a big cat has made the rubber factory home. A sub-adult tiger was tranquilised in the factory in 2018. A leopard spent two years there before it was run over on the road outside the factory campus.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/stripes-show-rubber-factory-tigress-is-from-kishanpur-officials/articleshow/75088352.cms||Priyangi Agarwal
April 11, 2020||Bareilly||Man kills self, family blames lockdown stress for extreme step||Bareilly: A 32-year-old labourer, who was said to be depressed due to the Covid-19 lockdown, committed suicide by hanging himself at his house in Hafizganj area in Nawabganj tehsil of Bareilly district on Friday. His wife said that there was nothing to eat at home and all their savings had dried up. However, police claimed that the victim was provided food items on April 7 after he rang up Dial 112 helpline and that he committed suicide because he was stressed due to a pending court case where he was a co-accused. On Thursday night, Mujahid went to sleep with his family and sometime during midnight, he hanged himself from the ceiling. His family informed the police on Friday morning. His wife, Shaheen, told the police that Mujahid was upset because they didn’t have any savings left and no food for their children. They had not paid the rent of the house for two months, she said. Hafizganj SHO Mahendra Singh told TOI, “We had provided 10 kilograms of wheat and other food items to the family on April 7. We spoke with local residents and came to know that Mujahid was upset because of a murder case in which he was a co-accused.” Bareilly district magistrate Nithish Kumar said, “We are ensuring with the support of police that food items are provided to every person in need. We will look into this case.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/man-kills-self-family-blames-lockdown-stress-for-extreme-step/articleshow/75088331.cms||Kanwardeep Singh
April 11, 2020||Bareilly||Pilibhit dist jail prisoners makesanitiser tunnel; will gift units to SP, DM||Pilibhit: In the wake of the medical crisis caused by the rapidly spreading coronavirus, prisoners of the district jail in Pilibhit have chipped in to prepare a low-cost sanitiser tunnel. One such tunnel has been placed at the entry point of the jail for sanitising every person who enters or leaves the premises. In order to reduce the cost, a mist propeller has been installed in the tunnel to spray the sanitizer solution, made of water and isopropyl alcohol. The jail administration is planning to gift one sanitiser tunnel each to the police department and the district magistrate on Saturday. The tunnel was made by five prisoners in four hours. Each tunnel unit costs Rs 6,000. Anoop Singh, jail superintendent, said a mist propeller has been used for spraying the sanitiser as a jet pumping unit and a mechanized spraying devise were costly. Besides, they were unavailable as all machinery shops are closed due to the lockdown Instead, the mist propeller, commonly used in outdoor parties, was used as a substitute. Singh added,“We have placed a container with 15 litres of sanitiser mixed in one litre of isopropyl alcohol and 10 litres of water. A person entering the tunnel is sprayed with the disinfectant for 30 seconds. One jail inmate will be on duty to manually press the button to spray anyone entering or leaving the premises. The solution was prepared under the medical guidance of experts consulted by jail medial officer Dr Naresh Chandra. Medical officer Chandra said isopropyl alcohol is absolutely safe to use with no side effects on human skin. It is the same substance that is used in most of the hand sanitisers. “We are preparing two more units of sanitiser tunnels for police and civil administration," said Singh.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/pilibhit-dist-jail-prisoners-makesanitiser-tunnel-will-gift-units-to-sp-dm/articleshow/75088340.cms||---
April 11, 2020||Business||India to stay centre for global energy demand: Dharmendra Pradhan||NEW DELHI: Energy ministers of G20 countries on Friday backed the deepest-ever production cut deal to rebalance the global oil market, with India and Saudi Arabia — representing the voices of consuming and producing countries — calling for “stable, affordable, reliable and accessible” supplies to enable basic services in times of Covid-19 and assist in economic recovery. “India has always advocated a stable oil market, which is reasonable for producers and affordable for consumers… India was, and will continue to be the global energy demand centre,” oil minister Dharmendra Pradhan told his G20 counterparts to assure them of continued demand from the world’s fastest-growing energy market with fuel consumption rising at 5% annually. G20 accounts for 70% of global oil production and 80% consumption. The virtual summit was convened by Saudi Arabia, which heads the grouping’s energy dialogue, after oil prices last month crashed to their lowest level in 18 years as the coronavirus pandemic knocked off 30% of global demand. Pradhan pitched for a consumption-led demand recovery and G20 setting a target of achieving affordable price levels. He reiterated Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s call for a human-centric approach from the grouping towards overcoming challenges, especially for the vulnerable. He used ‘Ujjwala’, Modi’s marque social welfare scheme to give poor households access to clean cooking fuel, to put India’s views in perspective. Pradhan’s whole point was that energy justice for the poor depends on affordable crude oil prices. As an example, he said under a $23-billion relief package the government will provide three free cooking gas refills to 80 million poor households to help them tide over the national lockdown and loss of livelihood. These households had been given LPG connection free of cost under the Ujjwala scheme using the savings from affordable oil prices.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/india-to-stay-centre-for-global-energy-demand-dharmendra-pradhan/articleshow/75089713.cms||---
April 11, 2020||Aurangabad||Aurangabad: Newspaper vendors assaulted, probe on||AURANGABAD: Newspaper vendors, who came to the Jatwada corner near Aurangabad Central Prison to collect the newspaper bundles, were assaulted by policemen early on Friday. The incident has left two vendors – Bhagwat Gaikwad and Sarang Nikam – seriously injured. The police action drew criticism from all quarters soon after the photographs of injured vendors went viral on social media. Senior police officers, including commissioner of police Chiranjeev Prasad, on more than one occasion, had issued instructions to policemen asking them to abstain from using force against citizens, especially those belonging to the essential service provider category. A preliminary probe has revealed that the policemen, who allegedly committed the act, belonged to Begumpura police station. Senior authorities from the said police station said it would be too early to comment as the said policemen have not been identified. Meanwhile, agitated newspaper vendors, led by their association president Nilesh Fatke, went to the city police commissionerate and lodged a written complaint with assistant commissioner of police (crime) Nagnath Kode. The vendors also threatened to go on an indefinite strike if strict action is not taken against the policeman. The vendors pointed out that the lockdown exemption pass allotted to them were also snatched by the policemen. It was alleged that milkmen and vegetable vendors, including a 60-year-old elderly woman, were also assaulted by these policemen who appeared to be in an inebriated state. Taking cognizance of the incident, deputy commissioner of police (zone-I) Nikesh Khatmode-Patil, to ensure an unbiased probe, has tasked the detection branch of the City Chowk police station to carry out an internal probe and identify the miscreant policemen before disciplinary action is initiated against them.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/newspaper-vendors-assaulted-probe-on/articleshow/75088351.cms||Mohammed Akhef
April 11, 2020||Bhubaneswar||Odisha: IPS officers withdraw PSOs to maintain social distance||BHUBANESWAR: The Covid-19 outbreak has prompted a number of IPS officers in the state to either temporarily withdraw or reduce the services of their personal security officers (PSOs) to maintain social distancing. The move is part of police headquarters thrust on adopting maximum precautions in policing practice, an essential service during the crisis time. “I have reduced the use of PSO. I am not taking my PSO during official outstation tours. Many other officers in the state have also reduced the use of PSO,” said director general of police Abhay. Soumendra Priyadarshi, additional director general of police (crime branch and law & order), said he has temporarily withdrawn his PSO. “Though my job profile asks me to have a PSO, I am not using the service as of now during my movements. It is always better to adopt precautions for ourselves and our PSOs,” Priyadarshi said. The commissioner of police, Sudhanshu Sarangi, and additional commissioner of police Anup Kumar Sahoo said they too are alert to vulnerability and have taken precautions. “My PSO and driver stay in my house. I have arranged for their accommodation in house and food. Both are not in contact with anyone else,” Sarangi said. Sahoo said he was using two PSOs only during enforcement duty. “I need assistance of PSOs during enforcement of Covid-19 regulations on field,” Sahoo said. The state police headquarters has already asked police stations to allow only three policemen, including driver to travel in six or nine-seater vehicles. “We have asked police personnel to strictly stick to social distancing norm as they have been conducting patrolling in vehicles and discharging duty on road. No overcrowding of police personnel in patrolling vans is allowed. Personnel have been asked to use their personal bikes for smooth movement,” a police headquarters official said. Police in Bhadrak, Rayagada and Jajpur districts have been promoting cycle patrolling to maintain social distance among themselves. “Our personnel also conduct foot patrolling in market areas. Our daily meetings are being conducted via video conference or video calls,” Bhadrak SP Rajesh Pandit said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhubaneswar/ips-officers-withdraw-psos-to-maintain-social-distance/articleshow/75087398.cms||Debabrata Mohapatra
April 11, 2020||Pune||Covid-19: PMC finds 222 symptomatic patients in sealed areas||PUNE: After moving swiftly to impose containment zones in the city, the Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) has stepped up testing in the high-risk areas. After two days of work involving health workers and police teams, the civic body said 222 symptomatic patients were found in the Covid-19 high risk areas. As many as 453 civic teams have visited nearly 1.07 lakh houses and screened over 3.8 lakh citizens in the sealed areas in the Peths, Satara Road, Kondhwa and other locations. Entry and exit of people in these areas has been barred after a large number of positive cases were found in here. The administration decided to study these areas as part of the containment plan and special teams were formed to screen the residents. “We are keeping an eye out for symptoms like fever, history of diabetes and hypertension. Details are also sought from the elderly about health issues,” Vaishali Jadhav, a senior official of PMC’s health department, told TOI. “Some residents were told to visit Naidu hospital, while others have been advised quarantine,” a senior official said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/pmc-finds-222-symptomatic-patients-in-sealed-areas/articleshow/75088856.cms||---
April 11, 2020||Jaipur||Surviving lockdown: Drug & booze addicts spend sleepless nights||KOTA: A clerk in a state government department in Bundi, 45-year-old Atul Kumar (name changed) hasn’t had a sound sleep for several days after lockdown was imposed. He goes to bed around 10pm but wakes up around 2am and remains awake till morning. A cannabis addict, Kumar used to get his daily dose from a licensed bhang shop of the excise department while returning home from duty. “My wife gets irritated these days as I fail to get a sound sleep. I get restless and depression seems to have caught on me. My worries increase when my teenaged children ask if we will all die of coronavirus,” Kumar said while narrating his state of mind. “A little bhang used to relax my mind and help me get a sound sleep. The lockdown came into effect so suddenly that I could not manage to stock a bit of the narcotics,” he added. Forty-seven-year-old businessman Suresh Khatri manages his daily dose of alcohol from the black market by shelling out Rs 150-Rs 200 more than the MRP. On the other hand, Trilok Chand is not able to spend extra bucks for his booze and spends his days and nights restless and in anxiety. “If the situation continues to last for long, several people like me will go insane. Some will even commit suicide,” Chand said. Not just them, but a large portion of the population is dependent on these intoxicants. Most of them have been facing the same sort of restlessness, anxiety and depression which might trigger various psychological and mental disorders.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/surviving-lockdown-drug-booze-addicts-spend-sleepless-nights/articleshow/75088878.cms||---
April 11, 2020||Cuttack||Odisha: IPS officers withdraw PSOs to maintain social distance||BHUBANESWAR: The Covid-19 outbreak has prompted a number of IPS officers in the state to either temporarily withdraw or reduce the services of their personal security officers (PSOs) to maintain social distancing. The move is part of police headquarters thrust on adopting maximum precautions in policing practice, an essential service during the crisis time. “I have reduced the use of PSO. I am not taking my PSO during official outstation tours. Many other officers in the state have also reduced the use of PSO,” said director general of police Abhay. Soumendra Priyadarshi, additional director general of police (crime branch and law & order), said he has temporarily withdrawn his PSO. “Though my job profile asks me to have a PSO, I am not using the service as of now during my movements. It is always better to adopt precautions for ourselves and our PSOs,” Priyadarshi said. The commissioner of police, Sudhanshu Sarangi, and additional commissioner of police Anup Kumar Sahoo said they too are alert to vulnerability and have taken precautions. “My PSO and driver stay in my house. I have arranged for their accommodation in house and food. Both are not in contact with anyone else,” Sarangi said. Sahoo said he was using two PSOs only during enforcement duty. “I need assistance of PSOs during enforcement of Covid-19 regulations on field,” Sahoo said. The state police headquarters has already asked police stations to allow only three policemen, including driver to travel in six or nine-seater vehicles. “We have asked police personnel to strictly stick to social distancing norm as they have been conducting patrolling in vehicles and discharging duty on road. No overcrowding of police personnel in patrolling vans is allowed. Personnel have been asked to use their personal bikes for smooth movement,” a police headquarters official said. Police in Bhadrak, Rayagada and Jajpur districts have been promoting cycle patrolling to maintain social distance among themselves. “Our personnel also conduct foot patrolling in market areas. Our daily meetings are being conducted via video conference or video calls,” Bhadrak SP Rajesh Pandit said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/cuttack/ips-officers-withdraw-psos-to-maintain-social-distance/articleshow/75095201.cms||Debabrata Mohapatra
April 11, 2020||Pune||Closed doors, refusal to share info hamper PMC survey in Kondhwa||Pune: PMC-appointed health workers carrying out door-to-door survey in Kondhwa were met with stony silence and in some cases, outright hostility. The surveyors were greeted with closed doors, with voices from inside telling them to go away. Undaunted, the surveyors are taking help from police and volunteers to complete their task. Kondhwa is one of designated cluster-containment zones in Pune. Pune Municipal Corporation appointed the surveyors to ensure better surveillance of Covid-19 cases. PMC has also roped in local corporators and prominent citizens to convince people to participate in the survey. “We have surveyed 52,375 people in the jurisdiction of the Wanowrie-Ramtekdi ward office over the past fortnight, but it has been far from smooth,” PMC’s zonal medical officer Dinesh Bhende told TOI. “Some people are not cooperating, while those that are would not share all the details. The survey is crucial to preventing the spread of coronavirus,” Bhende said. Former corporator Anis Sundke said people were unwilling to share their details following rumours that PMC was collecting information for the purposes of National Population Register (NPR) and National Register of Citizens (NRC). “Initially, people from Kondhwa drove the surveyors away after word spread that they had come to collect details for NRC and NPR. We are trying our best to convince them to cooperate, but we have had little success, especially in places like Meethanagar and Bhagyodayanagar,” Sundke said. PMC has even made announcements on public address (PA) systems, asserting that that survey has nothing to do with NRC and NPR. “The health workers are testing people with conditions like hypertension, diabetes, cold, cough and fever as well as those with travel and contact history. They are distributing medicines to the needy,” Salim Mulla, a local resident, said. “Many are also wary because some surveyors are not taking precautions, like not maintaining social distance, or threatening police action,” activist Azhar Tamboli said. “We are constantly asking people to cooperate with health workers via PA systems,,” assistant commissioner of police (Wanowrie division) Sunil Kalgutkar said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/closed-doors-refusal-to-share-info-hamper-pmc-survey-in-kondhwa/articleshow/75088851.cms||Asseem Shaikh
April 11, 2020||Bhopal||Corona cloud over Smart City office as doc tests +ve||Bhopal: A doctor with the Bhopal Smart City Development Corporation Limited (BSCDCL) tested positive for COVID-19, here on Friday. Integrated control and command centre (ICCC) in BSCDCL building houses the control room for monitoring COVID-19 in the state. In Bhopal, number of cases rose by five times (from 18 to 98 cases) in the last four days, according to an NGO Jan Swasthya Abhiyan which has been monitoring the pandemic.“The building has been sanitised twice since Thursday night. People, who came in close contact with positive patients, are being treated as per the protocol,” said BSCDCL CEO Deepak Singh. “ICCC would continue to function,” he added.The BSCDCL has asked the health department officials working on the field to be separate from those working from the Smart City office, he said. The person who tested positive is the relative of a senior health department official who is under home isolation, after testing positive last week.About 300 people are working out of ICCC control room at the BSCDCL building. It compromises staff from district administration and Bhopal Municipal Corporation (BMC), urban development department, health department and others. In the recent past top state government officials have visited the premises.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/corona-cloud-over-smart-city-office-as-doc-tests-ve/articleshow/75088371.cms||---
April 11, 2020||Bareilly||Cane farmers hit hard as half of local crushing units shut & mills talking stock at slow pace||Bijnor: With almost half of small and medium crushers shut due to the lockdown and mills purchasing the sugarcane stocks at a “slow pace” and in a limited capacity after issuing tickets, sugarcane farmers of western Uttar Pradesh are left in a lurch.Some of them are forced to sell their produce to small crushers, which are open, at much lower rate.As against the minimum support price (MSP) of Rs 325 per quintal, most sugarcane farmers are forced to sell their produce at much low rates, ranging between Rs 170 to Rs 200 per quintal to the few private crushers which are operating in the lockdown.According to an official estimate, sugar mills in UP owe Rs 11,600 crore dues to cane farmers. There are 119 sugar mills in UP which crush over 2,200 lakh tonne of sugarcane during the crushing season.According to officials, there are over 10,000 small crushers which produce jaggery and 200 crushers manufacture sugar.Over 50% of small crushers have been shut down because of labour crunch in lockdown.The burden of crushing is now on sugar mills.Besides, sugarcane production has also increased by 5 to 10% as compared to last year. Month of March witnessed heavy rain accompanied by hailstorm which affected harvesting of cane. Now, farmers are harvesting their crops very fast but they don’t have supply ticket as per their requirements.Digamber Singh, a BKU leader, said, “Around 25% crop is still standing in the fields. Mills have failed to provide supply tickets according to demands. This time harvesting got affected because of unseasonal rain. Later, lockdown hit local crushers. The small units which are operating have enough crops. They reduced cane prices from Rs 240 to 170 per quintal. Mills are not paying dues in time. What should the farmers do?”When contacted, additional cane commissioner VK Shukla said, “All mills will stop their operation only after crushing entire crop. The farmers who don’t have supply tickets and crop is standing in their field will be provided supply tickets after a survey.“This time operation of small crushers is hit. Therefore mills have come under pressure. But farmers need not be worry. Their crop will be purchased. In addition, we have asked all mill owners to pay the dues timely.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/cane-farmers-hit-hard-as-half-of-local-crushing-units-shut-mills-talking-stock-at-slow-pace/articleshow/75088367.cms||Harveer Dabas
April 11, 2020||Delhi||Delhi: As corporations battle Covid-19, dengue rears its ugly head||NEW DELHI: With increasing temperatures and an unusual amount of rainfall in the preceding month, an early arrival of mosquitoes is being noticed across the city. It has left the public health experts worried about the possible spread of vector-borne diseases like dengue and chikungunya. The National Vector-Borne Disease Control Programme has written to the municipal corporations in the city to step up anti-mosquito measures, citing that dengue cases are already being reported in the capital. “All our domestic breeding checkers have been deployed for disinfecting areas to prevent spread of infection by the novel coronavirus. At present, we do not have any additional man-power but plans are afoot to start anti-mosquito operations soon,” said a South Delhi Municipal Corporation official. The warning from National program is especially troublesome as anti-malaria headquarter operations and the weekly reporting of vector borne diseases through sentinel hospitals at present lies suspended. Public health officials warn that most of the mosquito breeding occurs inside homes and under current conditions, domestic breeding checkers will not be able to enter houses. “The anti-larvae drive can only focus on drains and stagnant pools of water. People will have to be extra vigilant in coming weeks,” said an official. As a mitigation measure, SDMC has asked domestic breeding checkers to focus on anti-vector borne diseases in their second half of the shift. Another civic official said that besides this, 500 workers may be added to the workforce and the commissioner reviewed the situation on Thursday. An official of the North Delhi Municipal Corporation said that like every year the mosquito control activities will start in mid-April.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/as-corpns-battle-covid-19-dengue-rears-its-ugly-head/articleshow/75089378.cms||Paras Singh
April 11, 2020||Varanasi||10-month-old girl dies at quarantine centre in Uttar Pradesh||GORAKHPUR: A 10-month-old girl, daughter of Rajendra Prasad , died at Chaurasi village primary school quarantine centre in Uska Bazar area of Siddharthnagar district on Friday morning. Reports said she took ill on Thursday evening, and when her condition deteriorated, she was rushed to the district hospital in an ambulance where the doctors declared her brought dead. The family members later buried her in the village. “As her family members had come from Mumbai, they were instructed to stay at the quarantine centre in Chaurasi village primary school since March 29,” said district magistrate Siddharthnagar Deepak Meena. “The girl’s father said that on Thursday evening his daughter was restless and showed measles like symptoms on Friday morning. She as rushed to the district hospital where the doctors declared her brought dead,” the DM added. “The family members have been staying in the school for the last 13 days and today (Friday) was their last day at the quarantine centre as they showed no Covid-19 symptoms. The family performed burial of the baby girl in the village. I met the family in the village,” the DM said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/varanasi/10-month-old-girl-dies-at-quarantine-centre/articleshow/75088455.cms||Arjumand Bano
April 11, 2020||Nagpur||12-yr-old deceased was not Covid-19 patient||Nagpur: After six members in one family tested positive for Covid-19 on Thursday, many samples from their high risk contacts tested negative on Friday. In fact, no new patient was recorded on Friday in the city. The two suspects who had died at the Covid-19 ward of Government Medical College and Hospital (GMCH) on Thursday also tested negative on Friday. Authorities informed that swab samples of a 12-year-old boy from Parseoni, who was under treatment at GMCH from April 5, were collected on April 6. The boy was a patient of type-I diabetes. He died of respiratory problems on Thursday night. Results of his samples came from the IGGMCH lab on Friday morning. The boy tested negative. On the same day, a 58-year-old Nagpurian was admitted in GMCH. As he was facing difficulty in respiration, doctors admitted him in Covid-19 ward. A patient of hypertension, he died the same day. His samples were tested in GMCH laboratory, and came negative on Friday. Apart from this, 31 samples from Nagpur were tested at the GMCH lab and all of them were negative. IGGMCH laboratory tested 44 samples, while AIIMS lab tested 51 from Nagpur and other centres of Vidarbha. All 128 samples tested negative. The good news continued for Nagpur as 5th positive patient, a businessman from Khamla, recovered fully and was discharged from the IGGMCH on Friday. In spite of being a patient of diabetes, he recovered with the help of doctors. Some of his family members, who had tested positive after him, are also doing well. They will also be discharged in the next two days, provided their samples test negative. As many as five more patients from Nagpur can get discharged by Monday. Saturday is going to be an important day for Nagpur as 114 throat swab samples collected from Central India College of Pharmacy Quarantine Centre at Lonara will be tested. NMC’s contamination drive is going on in full swing and three new patients were admitted from different parts of city at the GMCH isolation ward. Doctors here informed that Ward no. 25 has total 21 patients while Ward no. 49 has 23 patients. Swab samples of all these patients were taken on Friday and will be tested on Saturday. Meanwhile, the Nagpur Municipal corporation (NMC) started a Food Zone on Friday. Women staffers of revenue department are preparing tiffins while men are distributing food. On the very first day, the food zone distributed fresh food to more than 1,000 needy people. Nagpur Residential Hotels Association also joined the fight against Covid-19 on Friday. Hotels will provide their rooms at subsidized rates to those who want to stay quarantined in hotel rooms instead of the government quarantine centres.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/12-yr-old-deceased-was-not-covid-19-patient/articleshow/75088864.cms||Chaitanya Deshpande
April 11, 2020||Aurangabad||Helpdesk at GMCH busts Covid-19 misconceptions||Aurangabad: A Covid-19 helpdesk constituted and run by the community medicine department of the Government Medical College and Hospital (GMCH) is proving to be a boon in view of the rising misconceptions about the pandemic. The helpdesk at GMCH’s Covid-19 facility also provides counselling to patients and relatives on treatment protocol, isolation, quarantine and social distancing. The helpdesk was formulated on the directives of GMCH dean Kanan Yelikar. According to a release issued by the community medicine department of GMCH, detailed and accurate information is crucial in combating the ongoing epidemic and to avoid epidemic in future. However, many a times during an epidemic, wrong information penetrates into society which can be misleading. Such information is disseminated through social media and creates panic among people, the release stated. The helpdesk was launched on March 11 under head of community medicine department Mohan Doibale. The PG students, faculty members, social work superintendent are since engaged in the helpdesk management led by senior faculty members Jagannath Dixit and Naser Razvi. The helpdesk was earlier stationed at the cardiovascular thoracic surgery (CVTS) building which was designated as Covid-19 ward. But, it has now been shifted to the medicine building of the hospital as the Covid-19 management has also been shifted there on Friday. The helpdesk is active 24*7 and comprises two resident doctors and about two to three social workers to guide the patients,their kin and visitors on Covid-19 management, Arvind Gaikwad, the nodal officer of GMCH for media interaction said. The Covid-19 ward of the GMCH sees people who are suspected to be infected with the novel coronavirus, those who have a travel history, contact history with confirmed cases and symptoms and also the positive patients. The helpdesk guides the patients who test negative or those who have a travel history on maintaining social distance and on home quarantine.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/helpdesk-at-gmch-busts-covid-19-misconceptions/articleshow/75088370.cms||Arpita Sharad
April 11, 2020||Mysuru||Cops tighten the clampdown in densely populated areas||Mysuru: As the district administration has tightened the lockdown measures following a spike in the number of Covid-19 cases, the city police has intensified its crackdown on people hitting the streets after violating the orders. As cases of such violations are found more in the densely populated areas of Narasimharaja and Udayagiri police station limits, the police have initiated stringent measures in these spots. Apart from vehicle riders, the police are also acting tough on push-cart vendors and have even closed down petty grocery shops. According to sources, the police are keeping a close watch on roads connecting to Nanjangud and outer ring roads. City police commissioner Dr Chandragupta told TOI that the police department has initiated the tough measures after watching the movement of the public through drone cameras on a daily basis. People must stay at their homes and cooperate with the police, he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mysuru/cops-tighten-the-clampdown-in-densely-populated-areas/articleshow/75087411.cms||---
April 11, 2020||Pune||Covid-19: Maharashtra health experts to study Kerala model, conduct death audit||PUNE: Reeling from one of the highest mortality rates in the country, the state government has decided to study Kerala’s model in dealing with the Covid-19 outbreak and its success in flattening the pandemic graph. While Maharashtra has a mortality rate of nearly 7%, Kerala, which reported the country’s first Covid-19 case in January, has the lowest mortality rate of 0.6%. Dr Subhash Salunkhe, technical advisor to the state on pandemic control, said he was speaking to a team of experts in Pune and Mumbai and a death audit would be conducted. The Kerala government’s proactive measures in controlling the mortality rate would also be analysed. “Depending on the death audit report, there may be a need to change the treatment protocol. We will share the same with the Indian Council of Medical Research and All India Institute of Medical Sciences and will also be speaking to the Kerala government to know how they tackle severe cases,” he told TOI. Speaking to TOI, Kerala’s principal secretary, health, Rajan Khobragade, said coronavirus is only the latest among the public health challenges the state has battled in the past few years. Besides two devastating floods that caused a health crisis, the state has also faced outbreaks of KFD, bird flu and Nipah. “We are fighting all these with public participation and involvement. Highest transparency is what we are ensuring in all our interventions,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/maha-to-study-kerala-model-to-deal-with-surge-in-infection-cases-deaths/articleshow/75088859.cms||Nisha Nambiar
April 11, 2020||Ajmer||Virus checks child marriages in Rajasthan||AJMER: What the government could not achieve, coronavirus has! The pandemic will effectively put a brake on the child marriages taking place on Akshaya Tritiya which falls on April 26. Hundreds of marriages were said to take place on the auspicious dates from April 15 to 25, 28 and 27 are being cancelled. Every year, the state government along with the legal aid authority initiates an awareness programme against child marriages in the state. According to astrologer Suresh Sharma, the Dev Uthani Ekadashi, an auspicious date for marriages, is on April 15. Hundreds of marriages were scheduled to take place on the day, most of which were planned six months ago. Akshaya Tritiya is an auspicious day for marriages when there is no need for matching horoscopes. This period will end on April 27 and again be effective during May 1-19. But people are cancelling marriages for social distancing and informing the guests. “I had continuous bookings at my marriage garden from April 16 to May 1 but now the clients are cancelling weddings,” said Mahesh Saini. The Gujjar community in Ajmer will denounce anyone who goes for child marriages during the lockdown.  “Generally, child marriage or any other marriage in villages are possible only amid large gatherings which are not possible during the pandemic,” said a Gujjar community leader. Even parents do not want to marry their child in the absence of large gathering.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ajmer/virus-checks-child-marriages-in-raj/articleshow/75088879.cms||---
April 11, 2020||Jaipur||Unable to meet his family, 25-year-old hangs self in Nagaur||A 25-year-old man hanged himself from the ceiling of his room in Nagaur on Friday. The deceased Pappu Singh, a native of Bhilwara, was working as the driver of a contractor of mines in Chhoti Khatu village of Nagaur. His body was recovered on Friday morning when his family members from Bhilwara informed the mine owner that Pappu was not picking his phone. Police reached Pappu’s residence and recovered his body. Police are trying to investigate the reason behind the suicide. According to police, Pappu was unable to return to Bhilwara where his family resides. Police said that he had rented a room behind a petrol pump in Chhoti Khatu village. According to his relatives, Pappu had called them last time on April 7 and was worried about his family. After that, he switched off his mobile. The relatives in Bhilwara then approached the mine owner, who on Friday went to Pappu’s rented accommodation, where he found his body hanging from the ceiling.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/unable-to-meet-his-family-25-year-old-hangs-self-in-nagaur/articleshow/75088880.cms||---
April 11, 2020||Coimbatore||Police helplines to serve senior citizens||COIMBATORE: Police have launched helplines for the senior citizens in the western districts, who are bearing the brunt of the lockdown. The men in khaki are ready to deliver medicines and groceries at their doorsteps, inspector general of police K Periaiah said. “We had launched a social initiative called Hello Seniors to help the elderly a year ago. Elderly people in Coimbatore district who need help can contact 77081-00100 for help. Those in Tirupur can call 94981-01320, Nilgiris 86080-00100, Erode 89397-79100, Salem 94459-78599, Namakkal 94981-01020, Dharmapuri 94456-52253 and Krishnagiri 97152-55248 for help. They can also send WhatsApp messages to the numbers seeking help,” he told TOI. Police personnel will visit the elderly, note down their needs and collect the money needed for buying medicines and groceries. “If they are too busy, the cops will arrange the staff of medical shops and grocery shops to deliver the items,” the officer added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/police-helplines-to-serve-sr-citizens/articleshow/75088876.cms||---
April 11, 2020||Meerut||One killed, three injured in group clash in Muzaffarnagar||MUZAFFARNAGAR: A 26-year-old youth was killed and three others sustained injuries when two families involved in an old property dispute attacked each other on Thursday night following a minor argument in Muzaffarnagar’s Titawi area. Nitin succumbed to bullet injury at a hospital, while Ashu was referred to a hospital in Meerut in a serious condition, police said. According to locals, the clash started after a dog of a family ventured into the house of the rival family in Ameen Nagar village. A minor argument over it soon turned into a full-blown fight and both the groups, armed with sticks and guns, attacked each other. Four men from both the sides were injured and taken to district hospital. A case was later registered against people of both the families. Superintendent of police (rural) Nepal Singh said, “A case has been registered and an investigation is on. We have deployed police force in the village and raids are being conducted to arrest all the accused.” It all comes against the backdrop of a UP police report that crime in Meerut zone, which also includes Muzaffarnagar, has dipped by 32% last month due to the lockdown.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/meerut/1-killed-three-injured-in-group-clash-in-muzaffarnagar/articleshow/75088375.cms||Mohd Dilshad
April 11, 2020||Aurangabad||Devouts remain home on the occasion of Shab-e-Baraat||Aurangabad: Members of the Muslim community followed the requests made by the district administration by offering prayers for Shab-e-Baraat at home on the intervening night of Thursday and Friday.Shab-e-Baraat is one of the three nights in a year that is religiously revered by Muslims from across the globe where they pray for the departed souls and offer prayers the entire night while fasting the next day.To ensure that there is no violation of the lockdown in the name of important religious celebrations, police authorities at several places, compulsorily imposed restriction on people stepping out of their homes and deployed extra security comprising senior police officers.In Aurangabad city, commissioner of police Chiranjeev Prasad deployed a drone squad, for keeping a watch on the narrow lanes of some areas. In Aurangabad rural, patrolling squads with close coordination with the village police patils and community leaders, ensured effective implementation of lockdown.Apart from the appeal made by police authorities, Muslim scholars took special efforts to ensure that people stayed indoors and offered prayers at home.“During epidemics, Prophet Muhammed showed that lockdown is an effective means of breaking the chain. During Prophet’s era, there have been several instances, when strict lockdowns were imposed,” Mufti Mohsin said.Maulan Naseemuddin Miftai of Jamia Islamia Kashiful-Uloom said, “Remaining indoors is the key to defeat this deadly disease. We are glad that community members paid heed to the requests made by us, and followed the orders of the administration.”Due to the series of appeals, even Friday prayers following the Shab-e-Baraat were offered at home again this week.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/devouts-remain-home-on-the-occasion-of-shab-e-baraat/articleshow/75088379.cms||---
April 11, 2020||Pune||2 succumb to Covid-19, positive tally up to 247||Pune: Two critically-ill patients succumbed to Covid-19 associated complications at state-run Sassoon hospital in the city on Friday, taking the casualty count in Pune Metropolitan Region (PMR) to 26. Among the two, one was the resident of Bhavani Peth that has emerged as the hotspot of Covid-19 cases. Another was the resident of Shrirampur in Ahmednagar district. A patient of Down’s syndrome, he was referred to the Sassoon hospital for diagnosis and treatment after he was suspected to have contracted the contagion. The Shrirampur man’s death would be included in the Ahmednagar’s Covid-19 death tally and not in Pune, a district health official said. Besides, 38 more people tested positive for Covid-19 in PMR on Friday, taking the total case count to 247 so far. A total of 34 of them are residents of the municipal limits of Pune, mainly from Tadiwala Road, Parvati Darshan, Bhawani Peth, Fursungi and Kondhwa. Most of them are family members or close contacts of people who tested positive for the contagion earlier. Three of them are residents of Pimpri Chinchwad. “None of the two patients had any history of recent foreign travel. The Kasba Peth woman had underlying medical conditions, including diabetes and hypertension. The second patient who died is not a Pune resident. Hence, his death will be counted in the Ahmednagar’s Covid-19 tally,” said district health officer Bhagwan Pawar. The Bhavani Peth woman (55) was admitted to Sassoon hospital on April 1 after she experienced severe difficulty in breathing. “She was in respiratory distress. Her pre-existing medication condition including hypertension and diabetes precipitated her death. She died on April 10,” said a doctor from the Sassoon hospital. The Shrirampur resident (33) was referred to the Sassoon hospital for diagnosis and treatment of Covid-19 on April 5 after he was suspected to have contracted the contagion. He succumbed to Covid-19 associated acute respiratory distress syndrome (ARDS) on Friday. “He was a known patient's of Down’s syndrome,” a doctor said. More areas sealed  in PCMC limits Pimpri Chinchwad Municipal Corporation (PCMC) sealed three more areas on Friday as three more individuals tested positive for Covid-19 here in Friday, Santosh Patil, additional commissioner, PCMC, said. On April 8, the civic body had sealed four areas, namely parts of Gharkul in Chikhli, Kharalwadi in Pimpri, Padwalnagar in Thergaon and Kamalraj Balaji residency in Dighi. The civic body will be sealing one area each in Bhosari, Thergaon and Dighi from 11pm on Friday. “Positive patients were found in these three areas so we are sealing them,” Patil said. A total of 12 patients have been discharged after treatment at the civic hospitals till Friday, civic health officials said, adding that 14 were undergoing treatment at isolation ward of civic-run Yashwantrao Chavan Memorial (YCM) hospital in Pimpri. Swabs of 701 persons were sent to National Institute of Virology (NIV) till Wednesday for analysis. Out of these, negative reports of 623 persons were received. A total of 74 people were admitted to YCM hospital on Thursday and their swabs have been sent to NIV for analysis. A total of 1,922 persons have been home-quarantined till Friday. Field surveillance teams have conducted survey of 8.07 lakh people and 2.92 lakh houses till now. This includes 11,356 houses and 31,986 surveyed on Friday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/2-succumb-to-covid-19-positive-tally-up-to-247/articleshow/75088884.cms||Umesh Isalkar
April 11, 2020||Kolkata||West Bengal: Locked-down Victoria Memorial to launch virtual tour next week||KOLKATA: Victoria Memorial Hall (VMH), in association with Google Art & Culture, will throw open a virtual tour of the garden on April 18, a month after the museum and its sprawling grounds were hurriedly shut down in the wake of the coronavirus pandemic. Indian Museum, which had also shut the same day, will do a test run of online events and activities from April 14 to re-engage with the audience. VMH that is currently showcasing ‘Victoria’s Treasures From The Vault’ with images and descriptions of curated objects on Facebook, along with links to old lectures on YouTube, is planning to open the 64-acre garden to netizens on the occasion of World Heritage Day. A team from Google Art & Culture had already taken 360° video of the garden from 20 locations on the ground. The narration had been recorded in English and Bengali and the post-production work is almost over. “The virtual tour of the grounds will allow visitors to view various statues, including Lord Curzon’s near the south gate, King Endward VII on a horse atop an arch a little ahead and Queen Victoria on the throne. It will also offer a view of the six water bodies, two fountains and the marble edifice as viewed from the garden,” said VMH curator Jayanta Sengupta. He had initially planned to launch virtual tours of the galleries and the garden simultaneously, but with Covid-19 halting all activity, just the garden tour is being inaugurated. “We were to start the videography on the museum’s collection when coronavirus struck. The 150 objects that will be showcased have been shortlisted and the text describing them is ready,” he pointed out. At the Indian Museum, too, officials are attempting to curate a series of lectures and events on social media. “We are organizing three sessions in a week and have requested academics, like Vasant Shinde, Parul Pandeya Dhar, K P Rao, Rajat Sanyal and Susmita Basu Majumdar, to speak on their areas of expertise in short videos. We also asked Dona Ganguly, Tanusree Sankar, Tejendra Majumdar and others to send videos of short performances,” said Indian Museum director in charge Arijit Dutta Choudhury.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/locked-down-victoria-memorial-to-launch-virtual-tour-next-week/articleshow/75088891.cms||---
April 11, 2020||Pune||‘Drop in pollutant aerosols pushes up UV index’||Pune: The coronavirus-spurred lockdown may be causing the Ultraviolet (UV) index to rise in the city, long exposure to high levels of which may even cause skin burns. The UV index is an international standard measurement of the strength of sunburn producing UV radiation at a particular place and time. Supporting data from the Indian Institute of Tropical Meteorology’s System of Air Quality Forecasting and Research (Safar) showed a significant rise in Pune’s UV index during the lockdown period as against the same period last year (see box). Till April 7, Pune’s UV index has crossed 7 that falls under the ‘High Risk Zone’ and could cause skin burns on prolonged exposure. Gufran Beig, scientist in Safar, IITM, told TOI that UV radiation in Pune has been increasing as there had been no or minimal aerosols from vehicular pollution in the atmosphere off late. "Aerosols in the atmosphere usually reflect solar radiation. As far as day temperature is also concerned, in the backdrop of the lockdown, it may too increase gradually if the situation remains the same," Beig said. He said as these pollution aerosols were not suspended in the city’s air due to the lockdown, maximum solar radiation was reaching the earth’s surface, instead of being absorbed by the blanket of aerosols that existed in the atmosphere before the lockdown. In fact, a 2018 study of India’s decadal surface temperature trends had referred to this phenomenon of cooling over a large region in India. The study had said when the decade averages in maximum, minimum and daily mean temperature for the 2000s were compared to those of the 1950s, a consistent pattern of warming was found over northwestern and southern India, and a pattern of cooling was seen in a broad zone over northeastern India and across central India. "These patterns are explained by the presence of a large region of anthropogenic brown haze over India and adjacent ocean regions. These aerosols absorb solar radiation, leading to warming of the haze layer over northeastern and central India, but cooling of the surface air beneath. The heated air rises and then sinks to the north and south of the haze region over northwestern and southern India," the study had said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/drop-in-pollutant-aerosols-pushes-up-uv-index/articleshow/75088872.cms||Neha Madaan
April 11, 2020||Meerut||A UP lawyer who lives on a tree to respect social distancing & ‘kill boredom’||Meerut: Mukul Tyagi has taken the call of social distancing a little bit too seriously. He lives on a tree now. The 45-year-old lawyer has built a machan on a tree for himself and lives on it on the outskirts of Hapur.His only contact with the outside world is his son, who brings him tiffin. Tygai doesn’t bother the family for the morning and evening tea, he has made an arrangement for it.“At home, you either sleep or watch the TV. There is nothing else to do. This place is so close to the nature and far away from the city life. I have been longing to do this for a while now. It is peaceful here and I can read religious books without being disturbed by anyone,” says Tyagi while stretching his leg on a swing hung below the tree near Hapur’s Asaura village.The idea of the machan sprung up into Tyagi’s mind a few days ago, and his son helped him realise the dream.“I have always wondered how people used to live in the jungle in earlier days. So I decided to build the machan for myself with the help of my son. Now I spend all the time here,” Tyagi says.They tied a bunch of heavy wooden logs together with the help of ropes and somehow placed it on a tree. They then tied it with the branches to make sure it doesn’t slip. A quilt was spread later, with a tea flask on it. It took two days before Tyagi hopped on the machan with a relieved look.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/meerut/a-up-lawyer-who-lives-on-a-tree-to-respect-social-distancing-kill-boredom/articleshow/75088383.cms||---
April 11, 2020||Jaipur||Barmer school principal tests positive, booked for flouting travel norms||JAISALMER: Barmer police on Friday lodged a case against a school principal, who was found corona-infected, for violating lockdown norms at Kitnoriya village in Sedwa Tehsil. Principal Abdul Rehman was reportedly also causing hindrance in government work and was non-cooperative. He came to Barmer from Jaipur without informing the administration. Barmer SP Anand Sharma said that tehsildar Babulal submitted a report to Dhorimanna police on Friday that Kitnoriya senior secondary school principal Rahman came to the village from Jaipur on April 5 and was staying there without informing anybody. On getting information, patwari Babulal and ANM Bali Choudhary asked Rahman for a medical check-up on which he misbehaved and threatened them. He refused to sit in the ambulance and refused to undergo medical screening. A case was lodged under sections 186, 188, 269, 270, 353 of IPC and 51 of Disaster Management Act, 2005. Apart from this, a proposal for suspension has been sent to the director, secondary education, against four teachers who came to Barmer and hid the facts from the administration. An order has been given to suspend all personnel, including the principal, who came from Jaipur despite lockdown. Barmer collector Vishram Meena said all the four who came to Barmer from Jaipur violating the government orders and lockdown, have been suspended. Meena said the state government announced lockdown till April 14 and despite that senior secondary school principal Abdul Rahman, Dhanau BEEO Gangaram Sharma, principal of senior secondary school Ramdev Mandir Matadeen Meena and Shreeram wala left their headquarters without permission from competent authority. Looking at the charges, the district collector has recommended the director, secondary education, to immediately suspend them. CMHO Dr B K Barupal said till Thursday evening a total 376 samples have been taken in the district of which reports of 193 have come and 27 were found positive, whereas reports of 174 were negative. In Jaisalmer, district collector Namit Mehta has passed an order to take over leading star hotels for creating new isolation wards. In Pokhran, which has become a hotspot in the last three days with 27 positive cases, over 50 samples were collected on Friday of those people who came in contact with the members of Tablighi Jamaat.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/barmer-school-principal-tests-ve-booked-for-flouting-travel-norms/articleshow/75088882.cms||---
April 11, 2020||Bhubaneswar||Odisha: For postman, duty holds no fear||KEONJHAR: Soumya Sethy of Keshdurapal village under the Ghasipura block of Keonjhar district goes from door-to-door delivering letters sent by post in Keonjhar town. The 30-year-old joined the service under the Keonjhar Postal Division a little over a week ago. “This will remain memorable for me as I joined this service at a time the country was under lockdown to prevent coronavirus,” says Soumya. “I do feel scared to go out in such times, but I am happy to do my duty. Duty is god,” he smiles. Wearing a face mask and hand gloves, he goes around the town distributing letters, registries and speed post. He is unmarried and stays with his friends in a rented accommodation. His parents live in the village. He says, “I wash my hands properly and change my dress before entering the house.” It satisfies him to think that he has not shied away from doing his duty during crisis. “This is my bread and butter. I got the job after a lot of hard work and preparation. I try and do my work in all honesty despite the fear of being infected with coronavirus,” he says. He adds that he distributes more than 50 posts every day. “Since I am new to the profession, it takes me time to search for a place and identify the addressee to hand over the post with proper care.” He also says that some people feel scared to take the letters from his hands owing to the fear of being infected. But many praise him for working without fear amid the lockdown to prevent coronavirus. “Sometimes police personnel stop me on the way, but allow me to go later after verifying my identity. Like me, four other postmen have been delivering letters at people’s doorsteps in Keonjhar town” he says. A retired postal employee says, “Given that they are taking a risk in distributing posts and covering a wide area to do so during the lockdown, they should be encouraged by way of incentives and facilities in case they contract the novel coronavirus.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhubaneswar/for-postman-duty-holds-no-fear/articleshow/75087437.cms||Naresh Chandra Pattanayak
April 11, 2020||Nagpur||Nagpurian stakes claim to India’s lightest plane model||Nagpur: India’s lightest self-propelled plane came to life under the watchful eyes of expert aero modeller Rajesh Joshi despite the logistical constraints amid the ongoing lockdown. The 1.5 gram model plane was made using bare minimum items, some of which literally came from the ‘garbage’. Joshi, with 37 years of aero modelling experience, said making this ultra-light plane using bamboo, rubber band and paper as core components was a big challenge. “It all started with me getting bored during the lockdown. The first few days I rested, but after that I decided that this time under the lockdown must be utilized in a better way,” said Joshi. His immediate thought was about the 3gm plane model he built last year and a 1.4gm Czech-made plane he had bought. “That 1.4gm plane is the lightest model in the world. I decided that it’s time to work towards that goal,” said Joshi. He picked up a small bamboo stick that had been lying at his place for a long time. “It was practically garbage, just discarded. But I liked the whitish colour and decided to keep it without knowing where it would be used,” said Joshi. On Ram Navami, Joshi started peeling off that bamboo stick to make the lightest possible frame for his new project. “I used my shaving blade to scrape off that bamboo stick. It was a painstaking work which took me days, even after working for more than eight hours on it,”said Joshi. He finally finished the task on Hanuman Jayanti. “The first model was 2.5 grams, then I shaved it off further to 1.7 grams and now I have touched the 1.5gm mark,” said Joshi. Rubber band and propellers made of normal paper provide the forward thrust to the plane and enable it to take flight. “That 1.4gm plane I purchased for Rs1,500 and the one I have made was done for less than Rs5,” said Joshi, who will approach Limca Book of Records after the lockdown is lifted.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/nagpurian-stakes-claim-to-indias-lightest-plane-model/articleshow/75087445.cms||Abhishek Choudhari
April 11, 2020||Bhopal||150 PPE kits sent for Bhopal cops are lying unused||BHOPAL: With rising cases of cops testing positive for coronavirus infection, it is surprising to know that the city police have received 150 PPE kits till now, but they haven’t been used. Sources claim that they were meant for the cops who accompany health teams while shifting patients to hospital. Police officials said that till now the patients who tested corona-positive either shifted to hospital on their own or were counselled over phone. So, none of the PPE kits have actually been used by the cops. When asked, SP (headquarters) Dharamveer Yadav admitted that 150 PPE kits have been received for cops and added that ‘they will be distributed when needed’. “There is no problem, and if needed, more PPE kits will be supplied,” he said. Yadav said, “PPE kits are meant to be worn by policemen in case they accompany health teams for shifting those patients to hospital, who are reluctant to do so. But till date, no such situation has arrived. All the patients, who were found corona-positive, shifted to hospital willingly; others had to be counselled over phone.” SP also said that in case of containment areas, the barricading is being done on the entry points and policemen are deployed outside that zone, so there is no need for PPE kits. He said that masks, sanitisers and gloves have already been provided to the cops from the department. Many policemen have arranged for aprons, raincoats too and wear them over the uniform to avoid infection, he added. “Now that the cops are staying at hotels, lodges, marriage halls and other premises, the rooms occupied by cops, police stations and patrolling vehicles are being sanitised on a daily basis. Food for the force is being prepared at the respective police stations and the entry of people to these police stations is restricted. If any complainants reach the police station, cops have been instructed to interact with people maintaining social distance after proper sanitisation,” said Yadav. He added that agricultural sprayer machines are being used at each police station for proper sanitisation.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/150-ppe-kits-sent-for-cops-are-lying-unused/articleshow/75088382.cms||Sudeept Mishra
April 11, 2020||Meerut||Four test positive for Covid-19 in Meerut, one in Bulandshahr||MEERUT: The microbiology lab at LLRM Medical College in Meerut on Friday returned five positive cases of Covid-19 for tests, four of which were from Meerut and one from Bulandshahr. With these, the tally of the districts went up to 48 in Meerut and nine in Bulandshahr. Dr Amit Garg, head, microbiology department, LLRM Medical College, said, “As many as four cases in Meerut and one case in Bulandshahr tested positive at the lab on Friday.” Dr Rajkumar, Meerut chief medical officer (CMO), said, “As many as four cases tested positive from Meerut. Their contacts are being tracked now, while their locations have been traced and declared hotspots. They will be sealed until morning of April 15.” In Meerut, 48 teams went for active case survey on Friday, covering 4,383 houses. As many as 695 symptomatic cases are currently under quarantine in Meerut. Meanwhile, out of the 33 samples of Covid-19 suspects sent from Bulandshahr for testing on Thursday, one tested positive on Friday. All samples belonged to people who had come in contact with Jamatis or other corona-positive people. Dr K N Tiwari, chief medical officer, Bulandshahr, said, “A resident of Jahangirabad in Bulandshahr has tested positive for Covid-19 on Friday. He was infected by a Jamati who had returned from Nizamuddin in Delhi and was staying in Shiv Kumar Agarwal Janta Inter College, Jahangirabad, an institutional quarantine facility. He will be shifted to L1 Hospital in Khurja, while his family will be relocated to institutional quarantine. His residential area was already declared a hotspot some days ago, and sealed.” Contact tracing is being done in the area and test results of 37 Jamatis, whose samples were collected and sent late on Friday, are still pending.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/meerut/four-test-positive-for-covid-19-in-meerut-one-in-bulandshahr/articleshow/75088406.cms||Ishita Bhatia
April 11, 2020||Pune||PPE shortage still an issue for doctors in Maharashtra||PUNE: A shortage of personal protection equipment kits is severely hampering the efforts of medical staff in fighting Covid-19 spread in the state. The state has requested the Centre for additional PPE. To tide over the crisis, state health minister Rajesh Tope told local companies to help bridge the demand-supply gap. Dr Subhash Salunke, technical expert to the state government, told TOI that there are enough kits, only if the protocol for use of PPE is maintained. “At some places there is overuse or misuse and this needs to be addressed,” he said. Health officials said the recent reports of some Mumbai doctors testing positive for Covid-19 underscore the need for adequate equipment. According to official data, the state currently has 37,000 PPE kits, while another 3,25 lakh are needed. In Pune division, there are 2,282 PPE kits, 29,600 N95 masks and 1,93,365 triple-layer masks, which they said were enough for now. “As the cases increase, these numbers may prove insufficient,” health experts said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/ppe-shortage-still-an-issue-for-doctors/articleshow/75088889.cms||Nisha Nambiar
April 11, 2020||Aurangabad||Christians across Marathwada offer Good Friday prayers at homes||Aurangabad: Following the appeal made by clergy and pastors, Christians in Marathwada stayed indoors as all congregational gatherings for Good Friday were cancelled in view of lockdown. They remembered the sacrifice of Jesus Christ by fasting and praying within the confines of their respective homes.Two days after Good Friday, Easter Sunday is celebrated to mark the rising of Jesus from the dead. However, this year, people skipped their tradition of participating in afternoon service on Good Friday.As appealed by bishop of Catholic Diocese of Aurangabad Ambrose Rebello, Catholics in the city simultaneously prayed for those in distress, sick as well as those who lost their lives due to Covid-19 pandemic.Meanwhile, Marathwada diocese of Church of North India bishop MU Kasab also appealed to the people to stay indoors.Many Churches had broadcast the Good Friday service live through social media platforms so that people can participate in it even from their homes. Churches also have a tradition of participating in the holy communion by taking bread and wine to recall the crucifixion of Jesus. However, the lockdown restrictions could not allow the group communion. Pastors Fellowship of Aurangabad held a conference call on Friday. During the call, they prayed, read the word of God and took the holy communion together.Speaking on Good Friday, Beed pastor Charles Sonawane said that the agony, death and resurrection of Jesus was imperative for the world. “1 Corinthians 15:55-57 confirms that death of Jesus was not the end but has given a light to those in darkness and hope to the hopeless,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/christians-across-marathwada-offer-good-friday-prayers-at-homes/articleshow/75088400.cms||Arpita Sharad
April 11, 2020||Rajkot||Six from Rajkot & Porbandar defeat Covid-19, discharged||Rajkot: Jitendra Savalia 37, Mayurdhwajsinh Zala, 36, and Priyadarshansinh Jadeja, 37, three Covid-19 positive patients from Rajkot got discharged from private hospitals in the city on Friday. Three patients recovered in Porbandar on Friday and got discharged from the hospital. The first Covid-19 positive patient, Jyoti Goswami, got discharged on Friday evening after her two consecutive test reports came negative, while late in the night 27-year-old Swati Goswami and 42-year-old Bharat Kachhela, were also discharged. While Savli got admitted in hospital on March 26, the same day he had donated Rs 5 lakh in CM’s relief fund to help the government fight against coronavirus, Zala tested positive after he returned from Dubai, while Jadeja too got infected after his return from France. Savalia engaged in the business of real estate had given the amount to Rajkot Builder Association (RBA), collecting fund from its members for donation to the CM’s fund. Savalia got infected while helping his friend who had returned from Dubai, by taking him to the hospital. Savaila lives in a joint family with his brother. His wife and three children had gone to Keshod at the house of his brother-in-law before the lockdown started. Savalia thereafter took his friend to the hospital who was complaining of feeling unwell. His friend tested coronavirus positive and he was quarantined in the government facility. However, his health deteriorated and he asked health officials to send his samples for testing and on March 27 he also tested positive. Talking to TOI, Savalia said, “My family was out of station at that time but I was worried that I came into the contact of my nephew who used to serve me food during my quarantine period. So, when I tested positive I first started worrying for him. However, thankfully he tested negative.” Savalia used to video call his family and decided to remove all negativity from his mind. “I had a television in the hospital but I did not watch any news channels because I did not want to get negative feelings while recovering. I remained mentally strong and positive till the time I recovered,” he said. Savaliya has twin teenage daughters, aged 13, and an 8-year-old son. They all came back to Rajkot two days ago when the rest of my family was allowed to go back home from government quarantine facility. His message to people: “Stay in your homes and till there is no emergency, please don’t step out. I had to go outside because I had to help my friend.” Zala reported to the civil hospital after returning from Dubai but the doctors on duty did not find him to be a suspected case. His health, however, started to deteriorate and he got admitted in a private hospital. Talking to TOI, Zala said, “I had feeling that I got infected and that’s why I was living in isolation in my home too. This despite the civil hospital doctors did not take me as a suspect case. I could save my family from the infection in this manner. I was regularly following the news and though at first I was scared to know that I tested positive, I mentally prepared myself to recover fully.” After returning from France, Jadeja went into self quarantine and also informed the authorities and he was kept under observation.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/six-from-rajkot-porbandar-defeat-covid-19-discharged/articleshow/75088402.cms||Nimesh Khakhariya
April 11, 2020||Meerut||After seven positive cases, admin seals four hotspots in Amroha||Bijnor: With seven people testing positive for Covid-19 over the past 24 hours in Amroha, the district administration on Friday sealed the respective areas where they were staying besides tightening security at the entry and exit points in the district Of the seven positive cases, four are Jamaatis who attended the Tablighi meeting in Delhi. A driver who drove them to Delhi and back also tested positive. Of the four Jamaatis, two are brothers from Gajraula. Two of them are from Gujarat. According to officials, reports of as many as many as 200 samples sent from Bijnor and 150 from Amroha are yet to be received. It is feared that Amroha district may emerge as a major epidemic centre of Covid-19. Four days ago, three Amroha residents were found to be positive in Haldwani in Uttarakhand. They were also Jamaatis who had attended the Delhi event. But they did not return to Amroha. Soon after, seven patients tested positive within 24 hours. Talking to TOI, Amroha chief medical officer Megh Singh said, "Seven people tested positives for Covid-19 within 24 hours. We have quarantined their family members and their samples have been sent to the laboratory for testing. Areas where patients were found have been sealed and these have been sanitised." On Wednesday,one person at Amroha Chowk mohalla and another from the mosque area had tested positive. Joya's patient is a Moradabad-based madrassa student who came in contact with a Varanasi-based student. "We have alerted Moradabad administration. The second patient had returned from Delhi," said Singh. About the five who tested positive on Thursday. the CMO said, one of them is from Amroha Chowk and a driver by profession. "We are trying to ascertain their contacts so that they can be isolated." Meanwhile, Bijnor administration has sealed Candour and other areas adjoining Amroha.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/meerut/after-seven-positive-cases-admin-seals-four-hotspots-in-amroha/articleshow/75088387.cms||Harveer Dabas
April 11, 2020||Bhopal||Bishop leads Good Friday service online to homes||Bhopal: Remembrance of Jesus’ Passion & Death was held in the Churches of Archdiocese of Bhopal without people’s presence on the day of Good Friday. The Archbishop Leo Cornelio Svd observed the service on behalf of devotees at the Pastoral Centre on Friday. The Archbishop said, “For the first time, Good Friday was observed without any one in the churches. It is fitting that Jesus’ suffering and death on the Cross helping every humanity to understand the present crisis due to coronavirus.” “There were three major parts in the Good Friday service namely the Word of God which was proclaimed and meditated on the purpose of death on the Cross, universal prayers, where the Archbishop prayed for the world to heal from coronavirus, our country and its leaders, church and for all who don’t believe in God. The Cross was adored and final blessings were sought,” he said. The service began with the way of the Cross led by Archbishop, meditating upon Jesus’ 14 stations before his death followed by the main ceremony of the Good Friday. The PRO of Bhopal Archdiocese Fr Maria Stephen said, “The Cross has the power not only to forgive our sins, but it has also the power to make us whole. When we’re weak, it has the power to strengthen us, when we’re tossed hither and thither with pain and meaninglessness in life, it has the power to anchor our lives. Good Friday is one of the holiest days for the entire human kind.” According to the PRO, more than 4,000 people watched the service online.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/bishop-leads-good-friday-service-online-to-homes/articleshow/75088398.cms||---
April 11, 2020||Nagpur||AIIMS Nagpur to mentor all Covid-19 labs in Central India||Nagpur: The Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) has designated the All India Institute of Medical Sciences (AIIMS), Nagpur, as a ‘Mentor Institute’ to handhold and mentor medical colleges and to facilitate the establishment of Covid-19 diagnostic facilities for Maharashtra, Goa, Daman and Diu and Dadra and Nagar Haveli.The move has been made with directions from the Ministry of Home Affairs (MHA) and Ministry of Health and Family Welfare (MoHFW) “to increase the capacity for Covid-19 testing in all government and private medical colleges of the country.”Of all the newly-established AIIMS, the Nagpur AIIMS is the only institute to be included in the list of mentor institutions. The other mentor institutions include PGIMER Chandigarh, AIIMS Delhi, AIIMS Jodhpurand KGMU Lucknow for northern India; AFMC Pune, AIIMS Bhopal, AIIMS Raipur for western and central India; SCTIMST, Thiruvanthapuram, NIMHANS, Bengaluru and JIPMER, Puducherry for the southern states; AIIMS, Bhubaneshwar and NEIGHRIMS, Shillong for east and northeastern India.AIIMS Nagpur will serve as ‘Mentor Institute’ to 34 medical colleges; 32 medical colleges in the state of Maharashtra (including all Govt.and Private colleges with no Covid-19 testing facility except Mumbai and Pune), the state of Goa, Dadra & Nagar Haveli and Daman & Diu.The core team from the institute comprising proficient microbiologists, faculty, trained technical staff, and headed by the Director and CEO, Maj Gen (Dr) Vibha Dutta, SM, will conduct site assessments and will mentor and handhold the allocated medical colleges to set up the Covid-19 testing facility.Comprehensive review will be conducted to assess the feasibility of setting up a real time RT-PCR-Covid-19 testing as per ICMR requirements in all the medical colleges. The funds for the procurement of equipment, consumables, infrastructure and manpower for the establishment of the facilities will be funded by the respective state governments. AIIMS Nagpur will also conduct hands-on or video training programs for all designated staff of the proposed Covid-19 testing facility (health care workers and laboratory technicians). The training program is scheduled from next week onwards.As a ‘mentor institution’, AIIMS Nagpur will monitor the progress of establishment of the laboratories for Covid-19 testing in the allocated medical colleges, will approve or certify the labs set up, conduct regular safety audits and quality check/quality assurance to ensure the lab functions as per ICMR/MOHFW guidelines. AIIMS Nagpur will be working in close co-ordination with the state government and will complete the process on a war footing within the shortest possible time.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/aiims-nagpur-to-mentor-all-covid-19-labs-in-central-india/articleshow/75102297.cms||Chaitanya Deshpande
April 11, 2020||Nagpur||Visually impaired couple supports lockdown despite losing livelihood||Nagpur: Ravindra Atram, 34, and his wife Shubhangi, 30, both visually impaired, may be facing an uphill task to arrange two square meals for themselves and their two-and-half-year-old son Shreyas due to the national lockdown but they still fully support the stringent measure as necessary to save the nation from Covid-19 pandemic. Ravindra, an arts graduate with diploma in teaching, works as railway vendor to earn livelihood. The 100% blind man earned around Rs200-400 everyday selling earphones and mobile glasses on trains. Wife Shubhangi, who manages the household, has just 15% vision and is completing her graduation. She is trying to get a job too. Ravindra too has applied for jobs. The family gets an additional help of Rs2,000 through a government scheme per month that helps pay the rent for their Wanadongri home. After having an arranged marriage five years ago, it was a struggling but steady life for the couple until Covid-19 shook it up. With trains stopped, the couple was on the verge of starvation, along with their son, when ‘police war room’ for addressing corona related issues received information abut them recently. Addl CP Nilesh Bharne asked NGO Mudraas Charitable Society to help the couple following which Akash Devangan and Saurya Shukla along with Hingna police reached their doorstep with enough ration for at least two weeks. Atram couple was among 3.57 lakh people who had received food packets and ration kits from police and NGO collaboration since March 22. Ravindra said they were in a difficult situation after realizing the ration was fast depleting. “The income stopped after the lockdown. We were discussing the crisis in the neighbourhood when someone informed police,” said Ravindra who used to earn livelihood with skills taught at the special school. Shubhangi said they had received ration kit but was worried about milk for son Shreyas that they could not buy for the last three days. “We are trying to give him regular diet,” she said. Though the Atram family claimed to have some savings left with them, they felt it would be a tough going if the lockdown continues. “We know tough days are ahead but cannot expect lockdown to end without the pandemic ending. Our suffering is not bigger than national interest. Covid-19 should not spread anymore,” said Ravindra who also had visited the local Nagar Parishad to enrol his family’s name for rations. The NGO, which along with Hingna police, had helped the Atrams, is now contemplating arranging for Shreyas’s milk after TOI alerted them about the situation.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/visually-impaired-couple-supports-lockdown-despite-losing-livelihood/articleshow/75088888.cms||Soumitra Bose
April 11, 2020||Coimbatore||Good Friday sermons live-streamed||COIMBATORE: In a responsible way in the time of Covid-19, Christians in the city observed Good Friday from their homes with masses in churches live streamed via Facebook to houses of each member of the community. Every year, Christians observe Good Friday to commemorate the crucifixion of Jesus Christ on Friday that falls before Easter with thousands of members attending the masses held on both days. However, this year churches decided to perform masses through live streaming. “Our members have been asking us whether they could pray at church if they come alone. But we didn’t give them permission and instead we live streamed our mass through Facebook,” said Rev Charles Samraj, Presbyter of CSI All Souls Church. On Friday, he preached for an hour from 11.30am. On this day, we would preach them about the importance non-retaliation, non-violence and being tolerant towards other religion, he said. He said they have been performing services virtually on every Friday and Sunday since the lockdown. “Initially, I found it difficult to preach in front of a camera and before the empty hall. Basically, the way we preach varies based on the reaction of the attendees. But, now, I am used to it,” he added. Over 1,500 people viewed the video and we received feedback from them both through video comments and calls, he added. On Easter, live streaming would begin at 8am.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/good-friday-sermons-live-streamed/articleshow/75088892.cms||---
April 11, 2020||Coimbatore||Tirupur now a major supplier of protective medical gear||TIRUPUR: While textile mills and garment units in this hosiery hub have fallen silent, 100-odd apparel units are doing brisk business, thanks to an avalanche of orders national and overseas for face masks, personal protective equipment (PPE) and gloves. With orders for more than 10 lakh face masks and a lakh PPEs, the multi-million dollar apparel cluster is emerging as one of the major supplier of medical textiles in the country. “Of all the negatives the global pandemic brought upon us, we see this development as the only positive one. Tirupur has got introduced to technical textiles. This will become a huge leap for us,” says Tirupur Exporters Association president Raja M Shanmugam. Orders started pouring in from state governments, corporate entities and private hospitals from the last week of March. Kerala government was among the first to place orders. From 10,000 masks, the orders soon touched a lakh and is galloping beyond 10 lakh. On Friday, two consignments of masks and PPEs weighing more than two tonnes were sent to Kerala by train. A day back, a special flight was sent from Coimbatore to Mumbai carrying cartons of medical textiles. The Tirupur apparel cluster has been going through a rough patch for the last three years, missing its annual turnover targets due to factors like demonetisation, GST and the global economic stagnation because of Covid-19. But the crisis has helped units here take baby steps towards technical textiles, a growing market. ``We were given very specific instructions on product quality. We have not only adhered to the specifications but have also made them cost-efficient,” says V Rajamanickam, marketing manager of Wellknit Garments, which has bagged orders for face masks and PPEs from northeastern states. “Orders are also coming from Sri Lanka and Maldives.” The units had to tweak their machineries to make PPEs and masks. “PPEs would melt due to the heat generated by the machines. We had to ensure machineries don’t get too hot,” says N Rathinam, CEO of SKL Exports, who has got an order for 60,000 medical kits from Kerala. However, given the size of the workforce and production capacity of the units, the orders at present are just a fraction. “For now, we are utilising only about 15,000 workers. There is certainly a major market that remains untapped in the technical textiles sector. If we take the right steps, this could be yet another huge leap for Tirupur,” adds TEA general secretary T R Vijaykumar.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/tirupur-now-a-major-supplier-of-protective-medical-gear/articleshow/75088886.cms||Mayilvaganan
April 11, 2020||Delhi||Delhi: Universities look for ways to hold exams on time||NEW DELHI: In all universities, April is usually the last academic month before the semester exams start. But with the academic calendar having been disrupted by the lockdown, both private and public universities are devising ways to ensure that the exams are held on time. Several private universities are looking at the online mode of examination. Central universities like JNU and Jamia Millia Islamia have withdrawn their datesheets. Delhi University is working on a strategy to hold the examinations of final-year students on a priority. DU dean of examinations Vinay Gupta told TOI, “We are waiting for the guidelines from University Grants Commission (UGC) for the academic calendar. A committee has been formed for this purpose. We are also considering the online mode of examination. Our priority is mostly for the third-year students.” Jamia and JNU have already extended their registration dates. Jamia’s media coordinator Ahmed Azeem said, “The old semester exams, which were delayed after the violence last December, were conducted in January and February. For internal assessment, we have decided to mark students on the basis of assignments. However, the semester exams due in May will definitely be delayed.” JNU pro-vice-chancellor Chintamani Mahapatra said the university will be issuing a notice on the semester exam soon. “We are looking into possible options to conduct the exam,” he added. Ambedkar University Delhi has decided to end the semester through online classes. Vice-chancellor Anu Singh Lather said, “The decision on admissions will be taken based on UGC’s guidelines. We are not conventional like other institutes and our end-term exams are not centralised. So, closing the semester won’t be a problem.” Indraprastha University will be holding the exams after the lockdown ends. Private universities are banking on the online mode to complete their semester. Atul Chauhan, chancellor of Amity University, said, “The exams will be proctored online. Artificial intelligence will be used to track students via cameras and faculty members will be able to see the students live while taking the exam from home. Practical exams will be conducted once students are back on campus.” OP Jindal University has extended the summer break. “Exams will be held on the ERP portal as per schedule,” said an official. Ashoka University is trying to work out a mechanism to conduct mid-term examinations and group presentations online. Even BML Munjal University will be conducting online exams. Vice-chancellor Manoj Arora said, “We have the provision for online examinations on our Learning Management System. We will revise our academic calendar next week and ensure completion of activities by the end of July.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/univs-look-for-ways-to-hold-exams-on-time/articleshow/75089388.cms||Shradha Chettri
April 11, 2020||Rajkot||After ventilators; Rajkot to don docs, parameds with PPEs||Rajkot: The Rajkot chapter of Indian Medical Association (IMA) has come to the help of doctors and paramedical staff who are attending to the Covid-19 patients across Gujarat. After city-based Jyoti CNC successfully made ventilators, IMA has made a personal protective equipment (PPE) kit, which got the regulatory approval from the state government which also placed orders for 10,000 kits. The memorandum of understanding (MoU) for these 10,000 kits for government doctors was signed on Thursday.The kits are being manufactured by a unit in Rajkot’s Shapar industrial area. The PPE kits are being made as per the standards prescribed by World Health Organization (WHO). A doctor or paramedical staff have to dispose the PPE after one-time use as per prescribed norms.IMA says that 2,000 PPEs are required in Gujarat per day and they will be able to manufacture 1,500 to 2,000 per day in the Shapar unit.“It took us around 15 days to produce the first kit and get it approved,” said Dr Chetan Lalseta, president, Rajkot IMA chapter.“The kit comprises of full body gown of medical grade non woven, head hood of same material, PVC material zero power disposable eye glass, triple layer face mask and pair of hand gloves. The kit gives full body protection that is required while dealing with coronavirus patient,” Dr Lalsetta said.The idea was floated by the doctors in Rajkot looking at the shortage of PPE for medical staff after the coronavirus outbreak. IMA will provide these kits to private doctors and government at no-profit no-loss basis. Talking to TOI, Dr Hiren Kothari, vice-president of IMA Gujarat, said “We can’t afford to have shortage of PPE looking at the rising number of positive cases. It’s important that doctors and paramedical staff themselves don’t get infected while treating patients.”According to doctors, they require PPE to treat people because they don’t know who are potential carriers of the virus. Nephrologists, cardiologists, orthopaedic and paediatricians treat and operate the patients in emergency cases and they need to have this equipment.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/after-ventilators-rajkot-to-don-docs-parameds-with-ppes/articleshow/75088424.cms||Nimesh Khakhariya
April 11, 2020||Pune||This busy radiologist is also a saviour to injured wild birds||Pune: To the sick birds, who get his undivided attention twice a week, Satish Pande may as well be a cape-wearing hero. Between handling ultrasonography emergencies daily and performing his role as an interventional radiologist and sonologist at his private clinic and KEM Hospital, the ornithologist has not missed his appointment with the wild birds, even as his left leg has been wrapped in a plaster for almost a month now.“It is part of our profession. Just that during this lockdown, perspectives have changed a bit. The driving force is stronger than everyday life. The situation has made us realize that people need us (doctors) more than ever,” said Pande.While he handles nearly 30-40 emergencies a day, he heads to the ELa Transit Treatment Center run by ELa Foundation and Maharashtra Forest Department to treat wild animals twice a week. “I examine sick wild birds at Pingori. We have four jackal cubs presently for rehabilitation. I treated and released owls, Coucal, cormorant and a parakeet this week,” said Pande.Pande has been moving around with the plastered leg. With a hectic schedule, his leg often swells up and begins to ache. “Pregnant mothers, enforcement staff, among others are braving fear and showing great trust in doctors. In such a situation, it will be unjust to sit at home because of a fractured leg,” concluded Pande.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/this-busy-radiologist-is-also-a-saviour-to-injured-wild-birds/articleshow/75088896.cms||Swati Shinde Gole
April 11, 2020||Trichy||No respite for Uyyakondan as wastewater still flows into canal||Trichy: Air pollution in Trichy city may have declined during the lockdown but there is no respite for Uyyakondan canal as wastewater from residential areas continue to be let into the channel. While the level of suspended particulate matters such as sulphur dioxide has dipped by up to 80% and the air quality improved due to less vehicular movement in the city, the failure of a similar turnaround in Uyyakondan canal’s pollution level has only disappointed the residents. The 69km-long canal of which 8.7km passes through the city faces threat mostly from residential establishments with no regulation in place.  Since people are indoors, wastewater gushing out of the houses and apartments towards the irrigation canal has not come down in the past two weeks. “Uyyakondan is the same as before and after the lockdown. Unless people change, Uyyakondan will not change for good,” Ilayaraja Vignesh H, a resident of Woraiyur said. Wastewater let out by commercial establishments flowing into Uyyakondan through stormwater drain has come down during the curfew. But, the dip is compensated by the continuous wastewater discharge from houses along the canal. Frequent handwashing and bathing to ward off Covid-19 infection are cited as reasns. Official sources with the public works department (PWD) acknowledged that the wastewater discharge is rampant during the lockdown. “The discharge of wastewater into the canal causes aquatic weeds to conceal Uyyakondan,” an official said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/no-respite-for-uyyakondan-as-wastewater-still-flows-into-canal/articleshow/75088906.cms||Deepak Karthik
April 11, 2020||Kolkata||Tolly movies go up growth chart, make a splash on TV in corona season||Kolkata: On Thursday, Broadcast Audience Research Council (BARC)-Neilsen released a study about television viewership growth during the pre Covid-19 and lockdown phases, which showed that TV viewership in the 13th week of 2020 (March 28 to April 3) has been largely dominated by movies. What’s great news for Tollywood is that in terms of viewership growth pre-Covid 19, Bengali movies have beaten other regional language-movie viewing, including Bollywood. While Bengali movie viewership has clocked a 138% growth, Bollywood film-viewing has registered a growth of 82%. The all-India average growth of movie viewership is at 77%. According to the report, TV viewership during week 13 was 4% more than what it was in the week before. Compared to the statistics during the pre-Covid-19 period, TV viewership has seen an overall growth of 43%. This surge in interest in movies and growth of Bengali film viewership is perhaps the biggest positive news for Tollywood, which has been on a ventilator ever since the lockdown was announced. Jeet and Koel Mullick’s ‘Saath Pake Bandha’Actor Prosenjit Chatterjee is thrilled with the development. “Amidst all the gloom, this is a ray of hope for the industry. Mainstream Bengali cinema hasn’t died yet. This report shows that with good exhibition facilities and content, people are going to watch Bengali movies,” he said. Incidentally, his ‘Biyer Phool’ (Zee Bangla Cinema) with Rani Mukerji registered the highest TRP on BARC report of 3.19 while his ‘Mon Maney Na’ (COLORS Bangla) with Rabi Ghosh, Anup Kumar and Chinmoy Roy got 2.67 rating. Jalsha Movies registered the third and fourth highest ratings with Jeet and Koel Mullick’s ‘Saath Pake Bandha’ (1.99) and Dev-Subhashree’s ‘Poran Jae Joliya Re’ (1.98) respectively. Dev-Subhashree’s ‘Poran Jae Joliya Re’In a week, 11 Bengali channels screen over 200 Bengali movies. Some like COLORS Bangla go retro. In the 13  week, they screened Prosenjit and Rituparna Sengupta’s ‘Milan Madhur’, Ranjit Mullick-Prosenjit-Rituparna’s ‘Sindurer Adhikar’, Chiranjeet Chakroborty and Tapas Paul’s ‘Yoddha’, Firdaus-Rituparna’s ‘Amader Songsar’ and Prosenjit-Satabdi Roy’s ‘Shatruta’. Star Jalsha relied on contemporary mainstream and screened Dev’s ‘Hoi Choi Unlimited’, Bonny Sengupta and Koushani Mukherjee’s ‘Girlfriend’, Dev, Jisshu, Mimi Chakarborty and Nusrat Jahan’s ‘Kelor Kirti’, Dev, Srabanti, Soham and Mimi’s ‘Shudhu Tomari Jonyo’, Shakib Khan-Nusrat’s ‘Naqaab’ and Ankush-Nusrat’s ‘Bolo Dugga Mai Ki’. Jalsha Movies showed Nigel Akkara, Anasua Mazumdar and Manali Dey's 'Gotro'. Zee Bangla Cinema, meanwhile, has opted for both classics and contemporary mainstream. That includes Ranjit Mullick’s ‘Mejobou’ and Dev’s ‘Kidnap’. Parambrata Chatterjee and Rudranil Ghosh in 'Satyaneshwi Byomkesh’Rudranil Ghosh, whose ‘Satyaneshwi Byomkesh’ with Parambrata Chatterjee had a world television premiere on Zee Bangla and got a TRP of 1.2, said, “This meteoric rise of Bengali movie-viewing in the report shows that Tollywood movies have the potential to cater to everyone. That is a huge success story for us.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/tolly-movies-go-up-growth-chart-make-a-splash-in-corona-season/articleshow/75088923.cms||Priyanka Dasgupta
April 11, 2020||Meerut||Over 300 labourers face near starvation in this minority-dominated area in UP's Meerut||Meerut: Every day around 2 pm, Abul Hasan, 45, waits for his one-meal-a-day he receives from the police authorities. “A plate of rice and daal mostly or four pooris and sabzi at times. We have lost our jobs and don’t have any money left with us. The little ration we had is also running out. I do not know how my wife and three kids are surviving in Jharkhand. I have not been able to send them any money since the lockdown,” said Hasan who lives in Islamabad colony, a minority-dominated area that houses nearly 300 labourers from Jharkhand.Many of the residents who tried to venture out to the nearest community kitchen say that they were shunned by the police and asked to return home because of the lockdown.“How can we survive on this one meal a day,” asked 35-year-old Mohd Masiuddin.Mohd Noman, 18, a labourer from Bihar who lives in Meerut’s Lalkurti area, said, “I share a room with four others and we have to pay a rent of Rs 3,500, which we cannot skip because our landlord himself drives an e-rickshaw and needs money. Last week, local policemen had given us some ration, which we are about to exhaust in another two days.”Other than hunger and privation, misgivings too abound the area.Mohd Shahrukh, 24, said, “I have hardly two days of ration left, but I don’t want to approach police for the fear of being mistaken for a Covid-19 patient as people are looking down upon our community.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/meerut/over-300-labourers-face-near-starvation-in-this-minority-dominated-area-in-ups-meerut/articleshow/75088427.cms||Ishita Bhatia
April 11, 2020||Coimbatore||Denied chicken biryani, patient goes berserk||COIMBATORE: A Covid-19 positive patient was booked on Friday for breaking a windowpane of the isolation ward at ESI hospital after he was not allowed to eat chicken biryani brought by his wife on Friday. The 28-year-old patient from Ukkadam was being treated for Covid-19 at the isolation ward at ESI hospital. His wife had prepared chicken biryani at her residence and brought it to the isolation ward on the first floor of the hospital, where authorities stopped her and reminded her that food from outside was not allowed. In a fit of rage, the patient flung a nearby fire extinguisher on the glasspane of the ward, police said. Resident Medical Officer K Kulandaivelu lodged a complaint with Singanallur police, who registered a case under Section 353 (assault or criminal force to deter public servant from discharge of his duty) of the IPC and Section 3 of Tamil Nadu Public Property (Prevention of Damage and Loss) Act. Police said appropriate action would be take against him after he gets discharged from the hospital. TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/denied-chicken-biryani-patient-goes-berserk/articleshow/75088904.cms||---
April 11, 2020||Rajkot||Village women’s free masks protect poor||Rajkot: When the entire government machinery is fighting against the spread of Covid-19, women from Vadia taluka of Amreli district too are making their small contribution in this mega exercise. They have made 40,0000 masks meant to be distributed free among the needy. “We are a group of 30 women from Luniyadhar village of Vadia taluka who are working 24X7 in making masks meant to be distributed free among the poor and the needy,” said Yasmin Balaparia, president of Luniyadhar Sakhi Mandal, a women’s association. In a similar effort, women under the leadership of Sanali village woman sarpanch, Chandrika Movalia, too made 700 masks. “While following the norms of the strict lockdown by the government, women of Sanali sat behind the closed doors of our houses and made the masks to overcome its shortage. We will distribute it free among the poor and needy,” said Movalia.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/village-womens-free-masks-protect-poor/articleshow/75088443.cms||---
April 11, 2020||Aurangabad||Aurangabad: International Space Station to be visible in sky today||AURANGABAD: The International Space Station (ISS) will be visible in the city skyline during late evening hours for the next two days from Saturday.  Shriniwas Aundhkar, director of APJ Abdul Kalam Astrospace Science Centre and Club, said the ISS would be visible from Aurangabad as well as many parts of the region. “Known as one of the incredible human achievements in space science, ISS is located at a height of around 350km from the surface of the Earth and continuously revolves around the Earth at a speed of around 6.77km/second. Given its speed of rotation, the space station completes 16 rotations in one day. Hence, the astronauts from ISS can witness 16 sunrises and also an equal number of sunsets in a single day,” said Aundhkar. He added that amateurs as well as experts could observe the ISS from their homes or terraces and that they should not forget to observe the norms of social distancing during the rare sighting. As per US-based National Aeronautics and Space Administration (NASA), astronaut Chris Cassidy and two Russian cosmonauts arrived Thursday for their mission aboard the ISS, restoring the orbiting laboratory’s population to six people. “The crew which was sent on ISS had taken special preventive measures before embarking upon their space mission. Only a handful of people were allowed to remain present at the launchpad. All the crew members were wearing face masks and other protective gears,” said Aundhkar. The environmental sensors installed under the smart city project in Aurangabad registered a drop in the air pollution levels ever since restrictions were imposed on the movement of vehicles due to the nationwide lockdown. “The reduced pollution levels will pave the way for a clear sky and offer citizens the best view of the ISS,” said Aundhkar.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/international-space-station-to-appear-in-city-sky-today/articleshow/75088420.cms||---
April 11, 2020||Jaipur||Churches across Rajasthan go online for Holy Week celebration||JAIPUR: For the first time in history, churches across Rajasthan celebrated the holy week without attendance of parishioners. Due to lockdown, churches celebrated Good Friday through live streaming on social media maintaining the rule of social distancing. Celebration of Easter Sunday will be done on the same line with online prayers and singing hymns at home. Special prayer session was organised on Good Friday the day when Jesus Christ was crucified. The holy week started from April 5 with ‘Palm Sunday’ in which Christians commemorated the return of Jesus Christ to Jerusalem before he was crucified and comes to end on April 12, Easter Sunday. Reverend Jitendra Nath, S.M. Church, Jodhpur, says holy week is most important for Christians. “People would make it a point to attend the church this week. On Maundy Thursday, the priest washes the feet of parishioners. On Good Friday when Jesus Christ was crucified, he spoke seven words on the cross the meaning of which is explained in the three-hour long prayer. For the first time, we had the prayer through live streaming on YouTube and Facebook from 12 noon to 3 pm,” said Nath. Pastor of St Andrews Church in Jaipur, Jagdish Sharma said, “I have never seen empty churches in my lifetime. It is sad to see that world is facing such a danger but we have to be united. Only a few priests were present in the church during prayers. It is important to remember the sacrifice made by Jesus Christ for mankind.” Sunday is the day of Easter which is a celebration of happiness as Jesus was resurrected on this day. Hymns are sung in churches and families make chocolate eggs while dressing up like bunnies. None of the celebration will occur this year and people have decided to stay home singing prayers, watching social media lives sessions of Church and celebrate distributing chocolates amongst themselves. Some people though have found lockdown as a way to connect to god. Sanjay Richard, a Christian from Jaipur, said without any distraction he is feeling closer to god. He said, “I have never read the complete Bible in 47 years. During lockdown, I am almost on the verge of completing the holy book. On Good Friday, my whole family worshipped together listening to prayers. This lockdown has brought me closer to god. We as a nation should stay inside to fight coronavirus.” A light during coronavirus is important to get us all through it.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/churches-go-online-for-holy-week-celebration/articleshow/75088924.cms||---
April 11, 2020||Trichy||RPF sponsors food for sanitary workers||Trichy: The Railway Protection Force (RPF), Trichy has come forward to sponsor nutritious breakfast for a section of sanitary workers employed in Ponmalai zone of the Trichy Corporation. Around 65 sanitary workers in wards 35 and 42 covering Khajamalai, Anna stadium and RS Puram involved in waste collection and spraying disinfectants will benefit from the scheme. Launched on Friday morning, the workers were provided millet porridge and traditional snacks. The initiative is likely to be continued till April 14. Since the workers report for duty by 6am every day and leave at 2pm, officials said that many of them are skipping breakfast. To provide them food at their workplace, the special force of RPF has volunteered to support the programme. “Sanitary workers deployed in both wards have no shops to have breakfast. As their residences are far from the workplace, we roped in the RPF to provide them quality food,” a corporation official said. Commissioner S Sivasubramanian initiated the drive and also distributed facemasks and safety gear to the workers. Lauding the efforts of the RPF, the corporation has appealed to other organisations to sponsor and support the needs of sanitary workers involved in Covid-19 preventive measures. TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/rpf-sponsors-food-for-sanitary-workers/articleshow/75088919.cms||---
April 11, 2020||Dehradun||Tibetans come out to help needy in Doon; distribute ration, masks & sanitisers||Dehradun: The Tibetan community living in Dehradun has come forward to help people in need by distributing ration, masks, and other essential items in the city during the Covid-19 lockdown. All Tibetan settlements in the city are contributing to this initiative. Tibetans based in Rajpur area of the city have donated hundreds of masks and ration kits to the needy residents. “We have donated 5 litres of hand sanitiser and 300 masks to Dehradun Municipal Corporation. Also, some of the masks and disposable gloves have been donated to Rajpur Police Station too. We have also identified areas where people, who struggling to get food, are currently lodging and have distributed more than 1,000 ration kits in those areas,” said Tsering Luding, vice-president of the Doon Buddhist Committee. She added, “There are several monasteries and Buddhist institutes in the city and all of them have contributed a generous amount to the Chief Minister’s Covid-19 relief fund. A combined amount of Rs 28 lakh has been donated until now to the coronavirus relief fund.” Another organisation “Kalden Designs” is manufacturing masks in bulk and says that they will be distributed within a week to elderly people across Dehradun district. “Our organisation is manufacturing masks in large numbers and they will be ready for delivery by next week. The masks are being made by women living in a local shelter home named "Saheli" and they are being paid by us for their efforts.The masks will be distributed to needy persons in Dehradun district. These masks are being made as per the WHO guidelines and have extra protective layers in them,” said Kalden Sakya, owner of Kalden Designs.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/tibetans-come-out-to-help-needy-in-doon-distribute-ration-masks-sanitisers/articleshow/75088449.cms||Mohammad Anab
April 11, 2020||Trichy||Amma canteens get officials in-charge to ensure quality||Trichy: As Amma canteens are witnessing huge demand for quality food at affordable price during the ongoing lockdown, the corporation has appointed an official in-charge for each of the 11 Amma canteens in the city. They will be responsible for ensuring availability of essential commodities and arrange transportation for the workers to reach the canteens. Since the lockdown began there has been a 50-60% surge in footfall at the canteens as all other food outlets are closed. People stranded in the city and workers involved in the Covid-19 preventive measures are making use of the canteen three times a day. Around 5-10 women workers are involved in managing the Amma canteens and officials have been told to supervise whether the workers are wearing facemasks and hand gloves. “Domestic breeding checkers and our sanitary workers rely on the canteens. Since such visitors are arriving after visiting the containment zones, preventive measures shall be taken to avoid the spread of Covid-19,” a senior official with Trichy Corporation said. The canteens start their operations by 7am and wind up by 8.30pm. To ensure the quality of food, the officials in-charge were told to suggest change in menu every day. TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/amma-canteens-get-officials-in-charge-to-ensure-quality/articleshow/75088912.cms||Deepak Karthik
April 11, 2020||Coimbatore||In quarantined Kandal, volunteers step in to ease lockdown blues||Udhagamandalam: Life ground to a halt in Kandal, the largest dwelling cluster in Ooty, after the locality was completely sealed following two residents testing positive for Covid-19. Nobody was allowed to step out of their houses and all public activity was barred in a bid to prevent community spread. But a group of volunteers have emerged as a ray of hope. The 32 young men from different communities and different political leanings have come together to attend to the needs of residents in the area. With a population of 45,000 residents, Kandal was part of the nationwide lockdown to help contain spread of the pandemic, just like other towns in the state. But things turned worse when two attendees of the Tabligi Jamaat conference in Delhi were traced to Kandal. In a span of a few hours, the district administration decided to quarantine the entire area. It was then that the volunteers stepped up to provide door delivery of grocery and other daily essentials. “Braving the fear of the virus for the interest of the people, they showed solidarity in serving residents of Kandal”, said Vinayagam, a police inspector. Police verified all 32 volunteers and gave them special purpose identity cards. Their main purpose was to convince residents of the need to stay indoors, as their grocery and essentials were being supplied to their houses. For administrative convenience, the quarantined locality has been divided into seven zones and volunteers are deputed to each division. While police keep a vigil on the main roads in the area, the volunteers assist police by requesting people to not step out. Abhudhakeer, a volunteer attached to Tamil Nadu Muslim Munnetra Kazhagam, said. “We start our day by 6.30am by distributing milk to residents. While delivering milk, most residents give a list of grocery and vegetables,” he said. The volunteers purchase the grocery from nearby shops and deliver it to the respective houses, with the bills. Nagaraj, another volunteer from Hindu Munnani Katchi, said, “We are doing this as a service to the society in difficult times…we don’t consider caste or religion when it comes to serving people.”. As a safety measure, the district administration has provided all volunteers with masks, gloves and sanitizers.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/in-quarantined-kandal-volunteers-step-in-to-ease-lockdown-blues/articleshow/75088927.cms||---
April 11, 2020||Aurangabad||Lockdown fails to play spoilsport for baby’s naming ceremony, thanks to the internet||Aurangabad: Clad in a new dress and lying in a decorated cradle, a baby boy born in the Anwikar family on March 28 in the city was named ‘Swaransh’ by his aunt amid clapping and blessings from close relatives on Wednesday. The ceremony was similar to a traditional naming ceremony. The only difference was that relatives marked their virtual presence — thanks to the internet and modern technology. Swati Anwikar, the grandmother of the baby, said the virtual ceremony was the only option since the nationwide lockdown was in place to curb the spread of Covid-19. “It was my son’s first child. Hence,we had planned grand arrangements for the naming ceremony. The crisis that emerged from the pandemic unfolded in an unprecedented manner and we had almost shelved our plans. On a second thought, we discussed taking the help of technology and charted out plans for the virtual ceremony,” said Swati. The family decided to make the best use of video-calling facilities involving multiple users to arrange the virtual naming ceremony. “All our closed relatives stay in and around Aurangabad. However, it was not possible for them to make it to the function due to the lockdown. We called upon families of seven close relatives for the virtual ceremony. We requested our relatives to download the necessary mobile applications and be ready on the pre-decided time,” said the boy’s father, Shree Anwikar.  As per Hindu tradition, the aunt of the new born has prominence in the naming ceremony as she formally reveals the name of the baby to others during function. The boy’s aunt Vidya Mahajan, who stays on Beed bypass area, said it was an unforgettable moment for her to attend the naming ceremony over phone. “I am not that tech-savvy. I took help of younger ones from the family to mark my presence in the virtual ceremony. Though the barrier of distance was there, we had great fun and it was a memorable function. The only thing missing was the customary patting on the back from relatives after revealing the baby’s name,” said Vidya.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/lockdown-fails-to-play-spoilsport-for-babys-naming-ceremony-thanks-to-the-internet/articleshow/75088437.cms||---
April 11, 2020||Business||Prosus will keep investing in core areas, eyes M&As||Bengaluru: Prosus—one of the biggest backers of India’s internet economy with investment of over $5 billion— said it is keeping cash reserves for potential M&A opportunities for portfolio. The firm said it’s focusing on the health of the businesses it has invested in so that they can come out stronger from current crisis as it deals with the impact of pandemic. Prosus, along with its South Africa-based parent company —Naspers, is the largest investor in food delivery major Swiggy and education technology platform Byju’s besides owning online payments firm PayU and digital classifieds business OLX, which are also its “core areas” of further investments.Prosus, which sees India as the most important market, highlighted in an analyst call that it has $4.6 billion in net cash and can also raise debt, if needed. “So we have actually a lot of capacity to do further M&A without raising further funds,” said Naspers CEO Bob van Dijk. Prosus had used the slowdown in financing environment in 2016 to initiate $2-billion merger of online travel portals—Makemytrip and Ibibo— besides buying Citrus for payments business Payu for $130 million. Last year, Prosus swapped its stake in Makemytrip for shares in China’s largest online travel player Ctrip. One of the potential areas of consolidation is food delivery, where Prosus also has investments in Brazil and Europe besides India, where Swiggy has received $1billion. Top executives of Prosus said they see food delivery as “recession-proof” but also competitors could struggle given the capital intensity. “I think you’ll see some of the weaker businesses globally struggle to survive in this new context,” said Larry Illg, who heads food delivery investments at Prosus. Swiggy competes with Ant Financial and Info-Edge backed Zomato, and the two companies have held multiple discussion for merger in the past but issues relating to valuation and management have been a roadblock. PayU, for which India accounts for over half of the business, saw a 50% fall in transactions after a lockdown in India but is starting to recover, Prosus added. “It is still too early to assess the full impact on the business in India. But, we are confident that PayU is well-positioned as e-commerce recommences online, thanks to the solid portfolio of very large (e-tailers),” said Dijk.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/prosus-will-keep-investing-in-core-areas-eyes-mas/articleshow/75089066.cms||---
April 11, 2020||Rajkot||Now, get a mask for Rs 10 only||Porbandar: Two self help groups of women from Porbandar have made 4,000 masks, each mask to be sold at Rs 10 only. “Eleven women from Puja Sakhi Mandal and Shrushita Swasahay Juth under National Urban Livelihood Mission are engaged in this activity,” said Jignasa Bhogeshra, a member in the mission. “Apart from serving the needy at meagre cost, this mission helps women earn livelihood while working from home,” said Rudresh Hudad, chief officer of Porbandar municipality. TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/now-get-a-mask-for-rs-10-only/articleshow/75088454.cms||---
April 11, 2020||Trichy||Moderate showers bring respite from sultry weather in Trichy||Trichy: Moderate rainfall which began on Thursday night and continued till the early hours of Friday in parts of the city has helped in bringing down the hot weather prevalent for last few weeks. The India Meteorological Department (IMD) and independent weather watchers have forecasted isolated light rainfall to continue in parts of the district for the next three days. Trichy town recorded the maximum rainfall 53mm in the district, while Kovilpatti near Marungapuri, Trichy airport and Trichy junction recorded 50.2mm, 45mm and 42.2mm respectively. The heavy downpours also resulted in water stagnation on Palakkarai and Thanjavur roads in the city. As the downpour was accompanied by gale, several banana plantations in Lalgudi were destroyed for the second consecutive day on Thursday night. “The convectional rain may continue in parts of Trichy district for the next few days. However, during the day it will be still hot and humid,” said N Selvakumar, Mannargudi based independent weather observer. Moderate rainfall was also recorded in Thuvakudi, Thuraiyur and Manapparai towns.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/moderate-showers-bring-respite-from-sultry-weather-in-trichy/articleshow/75088928.cms||---
April 11, 2020||Aurangabad||Prompt cop action averts burglary on Paithan Road||Aurangabad: A patrolling team of four policemen from Satara area police station responded quickly to an emergency call received by the police control room and averted burglary at a bungalow in an upscale locality on Paitha Road. Impressed by the quick response of the police patrolling team, commissioner of police Chiranjeev Prasad announced a reward to the team with positive remarks to be mentioned on their service sheets. “I expect every wing of police department to be 100 per cent efficient. The so called non-executive wing gives immense satisfaction to the staff if they work efficiently. I am proud of my men who worked well by responding to an emergency call at 5 am. Suitable reward was sanctioned for them immediately.” The officer informed that after some burglars entered a bungalow’s compound and chopped a couple of trees, the resident of a neighbouring house, Ranjit Das, called the owner of the house and asked informed his about the burglary. The owner then called the police control room. The patrolling team reached the spot within 10 minutes following which the burglars fled. Satara area police station inspector Surendra Malale said, “Improving response time has been amongst our priorities. Our patrolling team’s swift response is a positive sign for us, and commissioner of police rewarding them is a morale booster.” Police authorities informed that due to the on-going lockdown, policemen in large numbers are standing on roads bringing a check on the movement of criminals and property offenders during the day. However, the number of policemen on night duties has come down as most of them are on duty during the day. “For keeping a check on property offences during night, we are currently depending more on our police patrolling teams,” an assistant commissioner of police said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/prompt-cop-action-averts-burglary-on-paithan-road/articleshow/75088453.cms||Mohammed Akhef
April 11, 2020||Trichy||Man in isolation ward hangs self, tests -ve||Trichy: A 60-year-old man admitted to the Covid-19 isolation ward of Ariyalur government hospital hanged himself to death on Friday evening. However, a little later, his swab sample was found to have tested negative for the novel coronavirus at the lab in Mahatma Gandhi Memorial Government Hospital (MGMGH). The victim, P Narayanan, was a native of Arakkatalai village in Ariyalur district and was working as a daily wager in Kerala. He had returned on March 23 but having had fever symptoms volunteered to undergo the test at Ariyalur GH. He was admitted to the isolation ward of the GH on April 6 and his swab was sent to the Covid-19 lab at Trichy GH the next day. He was put up in a separate room in the ward as his result was awaited. On Friday evening, a staff nurse in Ariyalur GH gave him tea and biscuits around 6 pm. However, when they came with dinner around 7 pm, they found him hanging from the window using his towel. “After his death, we got in touch with the Trichy GH lab on phone and found that he had tested negative for Covid-19," a senior health department official said. The CCTV cameras have coverage only up to the entrance of the isolation room. Ariyalur collector D Rathna said, "Hospital management said there was a quarrel between the victim and his wife at the hospital campus when she came to meet him. An inquiry is under way." tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/man-in-isolation-ward-hangs-self-tests-ve/articleshow/75088934.cms||---
April 11, 2020||Hubballi||Focus on isolating elderly if outbreak worsens||Belagavi: Scientists with the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) said they were looking at a strategy to isolate elderly people with co-morbidity health conditions in order to protect them should the outbreak progress to the “community transmission” stage in India. India is seeing a surge in coronavirus cases and extension of the ongoing lockdown is on the cards. Two scientists working with ICMR told TOI that in keeping with the World Health Organisation’s suggestion, a strategy was bring worked out to protect aged people. Globally, people aged over 60 have been found to be more susceptible to the infection and at risk of developing complications once infected. “ICMR is seriously considering the option of isolating elderly persons with co-morbidity to protect them from contracting Covid-19,” a senior virologist said. He said at the level of community spread, it would be difficult to trace the source of the virus. Asymptomatic people transmitting the virus is also a worry. “It is now amply clear that elders are vulnerable to the disease, especially senior citizens with co-morbidity conditions. Even WHO also suggested the same apart from lockdown,” he said. On the feasibility of such a move, another scientist said senior citizens in relatively big houses could isolate themselves at home. “The challenge is in housing the poor. Facilities should be created for mass isolation,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hubballi/focus-on-isolating-elderly-if-outbreak-worsens/articleshow/75087521.cms||Shreyas HS
April 11, 2020||Coimbatore||26 kin of Tablighi Jamaat attendees test positive for Covid-19||COIMBATORE: The total number of Covid-19 cases in the district touched 86 on Friday when it reported 26 fresh cases - 21 women, two children and three men. They will be admitted to the ESI Hospital. All the 26 are family members of Tablighi Jamaat conference attendees, who tested positive for the virus a little over a week ago, from the district. Their nasal swabs were tested at the Coimbatore Medical College and Hospital, along with samples of other 180 people. Of the remaining 180, 62 have tested negative, while the results of 113 are still awaited. Dr G Ramesh Kumar, deputy director of public health, said 20 of the 26 fresh cases were from Mettupalayam and the rest from Annur. The results of another five from these blocks were found to be inconclusive and are likely to be tested once again. “Of the 206 people, whose nasal swabs were collected, the results of 93 people have arrived. While 26 tested positive, 65 have tested negative. The results of remaining five are inconclusive,” he said. The tests of another 113 people, including those from corporation limits and other suburbs, were being run on Friday. Pointing out that the six patients from Annur have arrived at the ESI Hospital, Dr Ramesh Kumar said they were in the process of bringing the patients from Mettupalayam to the facility. He said those who tested negative have strictly been advised to remain in home quarantine. “We will now start tracing contacts of the 26 people who tested positive today (Friday). However, since they must have been infected after the lockdown began, we hope their contacts will not be too many,” the official said. Speaking to TOI, the deputy director of public health said the 206 samples - 93 from Mettupalayam, 22 from Annur, 82 from corporation limits and a few from other suburbs – were collected on Wednesday and Thursday. “All of them are family members of the people who tested positive for the virus more than a week ago.” Meanwhile, the health department has identified around 719 people from across the district, some of who had contact with positive patients, but tested negative, to take the rapid card test, which checks the presence of antibodies to the virus. “We have made the list of 719 people and are working on the modalities to administer the card test for all of them,” Dr Ramesh Kumar said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/26-kin-of-tj-attendees-test-ve-for-covid-19/articleshow/75088935.cms||---
April 11, 2020||Trichy||Massage parlour sealed for violation||TRICHY: A spa and massage centre in Woraiyur was sealed by the revenue department for operating in violation of the curfew order here on Thursday. The police are on the lookout for the owner. Officials from the revenue department, district siddha medical officer S Kamaraj and Woraiyur police carried out the inspection at Luna Ayurvedic Care and Spa at Narayanan Nagar in Woraiyur on Thursday. “Primarily, the centre should not function during the lockdown because it is not an essential service provider. Secondly, they should have registration from the government department to run the Ayurveda centre,” Kamaraj told TOI on Friday. Kamaraj entered the centre under the guise of a customer. “As soon as I entered the centre, two staffers welcomed me and listed out the massage services offered. As soon I asked for the registration certificate for running the parlour, the two escaped through the back door,” said Kamaraj. Village administrative officer Stephen Dhanraj had lodged a complaint with the Woraiyur police over the centre’s operation. The police have booked proprietor of the centre S Suresh on charges of disobeying government order and acting in a negligent manner likely to spread infectious disease.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/massage-parlour-sealed-for-violation/articleshow/75088943.cms||---
April 11, 2020||Coimbatore||6 arrested for illegal sale of liquor, toddy in Coimbatore||COIMBATORE: At least six people were arrested in four separate incidents on Friday for illegal sale of liquor and toddy in the district. In the first incident, a 35-year-old man was arrested near Kaniyur here with 150 liquor bottles of 180ml each. The Prohibition Enforcement Wing (PEW) of the district rural police identified the accused as P Karuppusamy, of Karumathampatti. According to police inspector K Baskaran, his team conducted a raid near Kaniyur in Karumathampatti based on a tip and found Karuppusamy selling Indian Made Foreign Liquor to the public. They immediately arrested him and seized 150 bottles of liquor from him. Preliminary inquiry revealed Karuppusamy had bought 200 bottles of liquor from a person who was working in a Tasmac bar. “While an 180ml bottle cost him Rs 350, he was selling one at Rs 450. He had sold 50 of the 200 bottles before the arrest,” the officer said. The team also arrested a 31-year-old man with banned toddy at Salaiyur near Kurumbapalayam in Annur. The officer said P Prakash, of Salaiyur, was caught while he was transporting 35 litres of toddy on his scooter. He said one litre of toddy was sold at Rs 250. In Pollachi, four people were arrested in two separate incidents for possession of liquor and toddy for sales. While two of them were held with 15 litres of toddy, the remaining were arrested with 25 bottles of liquor.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/6-arrested-for-illegal-sale-of-liquor-toddy/articleshow/75088942.cms||---
April 11, 2020||Rajkot||Husband, wife test positive in Patan||Palanpur: The number of coronavirus patients continued to surge in Patan with two more persons testing positive in Nedrana village, taking total number to 14 with one death . A 27-year-old man and his wife from Nendra village, some 10 km from Siddhpur, tested positive on Friday. As many as 15 villages around Siddhpur have been completely locked down due to the rise in cases, said district development officer (DDO), Patan, DK Parikh. Health teams have examined 38,431 people in 20 villages for symptoms of fever, cough and cold around Siddhpur. TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/husband-wife-test-positive-in-patan/articleshow/75088460.cms||---
April 11, 2020||Vadodara||‘Akashwani’ warns Barodians against breaking lockdown||Vadodara: A sudden burst of ‘akashwani’ took Barodians by surprise on Friday, especially that seemed to sound very stern warning people to stay indoors and not to roam around. With Old City citizens flouting the lockdown rules willy-nilly, especially in narrow lanes, harassed cops came up an idea to attach a voice to the pair of eyes that were already scanning things from the skies. Looking at the impact of the drone monitoring on the people who literally flee indoors if they see a drone flying over their heads, cops fitted the drone cameras with speakers that constantly relayed warning to the people to stay indoors. “Citizens are informed that they are safe indoors and they shouldn’t be flouting lockdown and venturing out without any valid reason,” said Anupam Singh Gahlaut, city police commissioner. The drones are also spreading awareness messages and safety measures to be taken by people. Since many days, the police was warning citizens by relaying messages through loudspeakers installed in auto rickshaws. But the cops decided to take to the skies as they were not able to reach out to the narrow lanes and interiors. The new method comes in handy to reach to the red zone areas like Nagarwada and Tandalja that has been blocked for outsiders. “We have also deployed separate teams to monitor the by-lanes in the walled city. These teams will ride on motorbikes and do patrolling in areas where four-wheelers can’t reach,” Gahlaut told TOI. Monitoring walled city by drones has had its effects as people literally flee indoors if they see a drone flying over their heads.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/akashwani-warns-barodians-against-breaking-lockdown/articleshow/75088952.cms||Tushar Tere
April 11, 2020||Trichy||Govt to transport farmers’ produce from fields to mkt||Trichy: As farmers are finding it difficult to transport their produce to the market, district administrations are coming to their rescue to ensure that their produce reaches markets on time and price of essential vegetables stays under control. Apart from arranging special vehicles to take their produce to the market, horticulture and agricultural marketing departments are helping farmers with vehicles that can be uses as mobile vegetable and fruit markets. Calling for a meeting with the farmer producer organisations on Friday, Pudukottai district administration has taken steps to directly procure fruits and vegetables from the agriculture fields. Collector P Uma Maheswari has assured to arrange for rented vehicles to bring their produce to the markets. Farmers have been asked to approach horticulture and agricultural marketing departments in their respective regions for assistance. “Horticulture department has been giving special permits to vehicles from farmer producer organisations (FPO) to transport their produce,” said C Vimala, deputy director of the horticulture department, Trichy. “With this, farmers who can arrange for their transport can use them as mobile transport unit to sell their produce by going to villages. Similarly, Trichy collector S Sivarasu has assured to arrange vehicles to take their produce to the market,” she said. Seven vehicles have been given to farmer producer organisation (FPO) in Pudukottai district. Mallika, secretary of agri marketing committee, said that the vehicles can be utilised by the FPO to take their produce to households by using such vehicles as mobile vegetable units.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/govt-to-transport-farmers-produce-from-fields-to-mkt/articleshow/75088937.cms||Sampath Kumar
April 11, 2020||Aurangabad||Telephonic assistance fills gap in routine prenatal check-ups||Aurangabad: The routine monthly check-ups of pregnant women and new mothers at the Government Medical College and Hospital (GMCH) and the district civil hospital are being avoided in view of nationwide lockdown.However, a telephonic assistance service run by an NGO in association with government hospitals is bridging the gap in routine visits to the hospital.According to Shrinivas Gadappa, the head of department of obstetrics and gynaecology GMCH, according to the Government of India, pregnant women require four routine check ups i.e. two visits in first three months, one visit during three-six months and one visit during six-nine months. “However, most women are unaware about this and they visit the hospitals on a weekly basis. We are not entertaining such visits and we are telling them to come only when required,” Gadappa said.While the routine check-ups are being avoided, the mMitra service run by NGO Armman is filling up the gap through its telephonic counselling service to pregnant women enrolled at GMCH and district civil hospital. According to Armman founder and urogynecologist Aparna Hegde, on a usual day, the mMitra gives voice calls to all the women enrolled in the hospital during their prenatal and postnatal period.In addition, SMSes are sent to women and they are also connected to the hospital supervisor appointed at each of the mMitra associated hospitals.“However, during lockdown, mMitra is also providing virtual OPD to pregnant women and new mothers,” Hegde said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/telephonic-assistance-fills-gap-in-routine-prenatal-check-ups/articleshow/75088458.cms||Arpita Sharad
April 11, 2020||Jaipur||Jaipur Municipal Corporation suspends 42 errant sanitation workers||JAIPUR: The Jaipur Municipal Corporation (JMC) on Friday suspended 42 of its sanitation workers as they failed to report on duty despite repeated calls made to them. These workers may lose their jobs as all of them are new recruits, who haven’t completed the probation period. They have been given notices many times in the past for not reporting on duty. At the time of the pandemic, JMC duties have been declared as essential services. Hence, every employee has to be present. One senior official at JMC said, “No one can take a leave from office at present as we need employees involved in sanitation work all the time. These workers were served show cause notices on March 31, April 1 and April 6. We did not receive any reasonable answer from them, neither did they appear in person for a justification. So, we had no option than to suspend them.” In the team of 42 sanitation workers, 17 are from Moti Doongri zone, 12 from Mansarovar, 7 from Sanganer, 5 from Civil Lines and one worker is from Hawa Mahal zone.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/jmc-suspends-42-errant-sanitation-workers/articleshow/75088944.cms||---
April 11, 2020||Coimbatore||Young inventors race to develop low-cost ventilators||COIMBATORE: Many educational institutions and entrepreneurs have jumped on the ventilator designing and manufacturing bandwagon as demand for the same has shot up in the country, which has of late been seeing a spike in Covid-19 positive cases daily. However, whether the move would help the state and central governments that have been racing against time to create isolation beds and procure ventilators to treat the patients is debatable. Two weeks after Mahindra announced that they had developed an indigenous ventilator that would cost Rs 7,500, a student entrepreneurship cell at Rathinam Group of Institutions has come up with a ventilator prototype, which they said could be developed at a cost of Rs 25,000. PSG Institute of Advanced Studies has also developed prototype of a high-end ventilator, for which research and development has been on for the past four years. The ventilator, they said, could be used in intensive care units. Ventilator experts, however, caution against producing prototypes that have been developed in a hurry, without conducting adequate clinical trials. Earlier this week, two students, who are part of a startup incubator at Rathinam Group of Institutions, had come up with the prototype of an intermittent positive pressure breathing ventilator, which they said was developed in a span of four days by using easily available components like a desktop’s keyboard tray, basement rail (on sides linear movement) and an ambu bag. Ebin, one of the students who developed it, said, “It just requires a mechanical push and pull movement on the rail, which would compress and blow the ambu bag. Every time the ambu bag gets compressed, it would push oxygen into the patient’s lungs.” He said the ventilator, the clinical trials of which are yet to be done, could be produced at a cost of Rs 25,000. PSG Institute of Advanced Studies said they were at the final stages of developing a high-end ventilator, which would cost Rs 7 lakh in the market. The ventilator is equipped with a special algorithm that could detect the patient’s ability to breathe on their own. This would prevent over ventilating or having to remove the ventilator manually to see if the patient could breathe without its support. It also comes with a 15-inch screen that would display all vitals. K K Venkatraman, who is part of the developing team, said, “This type of ventilator is only available abroad and has to be imported from companies like Siemens or Mackay. They would cost anywhere between Rs 8 and Rs 10 lakh.” While the ventilator has been approved by multiple doctors and intensivists, clinical trials are yet to begin for this too. Pointing out that a ventilator was too sensitive an equipment to be developed in desperation and within timelines like 48 hours to 4 days, ventilator designer and manufacturer Prahadeeshwaran Venkat said, “PSG’s ventilator is good and it took them four years of research and development. But its success would depend on how fast it responds to patient’s cues and how many cycles it lasts.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/young-inventors-race-to-develop-low-cost-ventilators/articleshow/75088957.cms||---
April 11, 2020||Jaipur||If we stay here, we will die of hunger, say migrants in Jaipur||JAIPUR: “Sir, hum logo ko kisi tarah se yahan se nikal dijiye, aapka bahut meharbani hoga... jab tak hum logo ka zindagi rahega tab tak aapka ahasanmand rahenge. Aap kahi bhi rahenge, duwaye denge,” said Kayyum, who works at Aman Exports garment factory in Sitapura. “Agar aisa chalta raha hum yahan se 14 ke baad nikal padega…bahut logo ne aisa mann bana liya hai…kya karenge bataiye?” This is the common sentiment of the industrial workers in the city’s Sanganer, Sitapura and other areas. They say if the situation doesn’t improve after April 14 and the lockdown is not lifted, they are going to hit the streets again. “We have got neither dry ration nor other essential items from the local administration. Even the cooked-food packets they bring are very few in numbers and are not enough for everybody. If there are 50 people in a queue, only 25 get those food packets and the rest return empty-handed,” said Kayyum, 56, who is from Narpatganj town in Araria district, Bihar. “I earn around Rs 250-400 per day. Before lockdown, the contractor paid us Rs 2,000 each. I had to give half the money to my family in Bihar for their sustenance. While returning from village, I borrowed 10kg rice from my neighbour and gave it to my children so that they could have something to eat for the next few days. But, now I neither have a single penny nor any work. When there is no work, why will the contractor pay us anything? We are in big trouble now. If we manage to reach our village, we will at least survive there.” he added. Arif, another worker from Araria, said, “After March 14, we will have to go from here. Even if the lockdown is not lifted, somehow we will manage to leave. There is no point in staying here. We will not die of coronavirus, we will die of hunger.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/if-we-stay-here-we-will-die-of-hunger-say-migrants/articleshow/75088961.cms||Sidhartha Dutta
April 11, 2020||Rajkot||5 more test positive in Jangleshwar||Rajkot: Jangleshwar area of the city has turned into the epicentre of coronavirus with seven testing positive since Thursday night.The suspected patients, who tested positive later, were found during the survey conducted by Rajkot Municipal Corporation(RMC) teams. There were instances of altercation between the health teams with the local people after some of them resisted the individual examination of all residents.RMC has put 1,175 homes in cluster quarantine and there five streets contained in this area. Municipal commissioner Udit Agarawal held a meeting with local community leaders and asked them to cooperate. Talking to reporters, Agrawal said, “There are 20 teams examining each household in the area. Mayor Bina Acharya has appealed people of Jangleshwar to cooperate.” The first person from this area had tested positive on March 18 but he recovered and was discharged on April 2. Four men aged 17 years, 27 years, 38 years and 18 years and a 40-year-old woman were among those who tested positive. In Bhavnagar too, three men and a woman tested positive on Friday. All are residents of the areas which have been put under cluster quarantine.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/5-more-test-positive-in-jangleshwar/articleshow/75088468.cms||---
April 11, 2020||Coimbatore||TNAU launches online classes||Coimbatore: The Tamil Nadu Agricultural University (TNAU) launched online classes on Wednesday to ensure that the postgraduate students are not affected by the lockdown.The professors are using Microsoft Teams to take classes. The initiative is expected to benefit 344 students who had to go back to their native places due to the lockdown.TNAU is one of the first state-run agricultural universities in the country to provide uninterrupted education for masters and doctoral students, university officials said. The university has 344 masters students and 172 students pursuing doctorates in 29 disciplines from 10 states.Vice-chancellor N Kumar said that the software enables teachers and students interact and collaborate just like a real classroom.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/tnau-launches-online-classes/articleshow/75088951.cms||---
April 11, 2020||Trichy||Discharged man gets warm send-off||Trichy: As the 24-year-old man who recovered from Covid-19 got down from the ambulance at the entrance of the Mahatma Gandhi Memorial Government Hospital (MGMGH) to bid goodbye to the doctors and staff after being discharged on Friday, a rousing send-off and appreciation awaited him for the cooperation he had extended during the treatment. The man, hailing from Erode district tested positive after returning from Dubai and was admitted at the MGMGH. Doctors confirmed his recovery after multiple tests, following which Trichy collector S Sivarasu visited the hospital on Friday afternoon and scheduled his discharge at 1.15pm. Doctors and other staff lined up near the hospital entrance to see him off. The man, still with his PPE kit on, got down from the vehicle with folded hands as a mark of gratitude towards the doctors and everyone out there. Dean of MGMGH Dr K Vanitha handed him a plate of fruits and egg. All the doctors and nurses present there joined the man to show the thumbs up sign to indicate their first successful treatment to the Covid-19 positive man in the tertiary care hospital before he headed to his house in Erode. Stating about the method of treatment and care to the patient, Vanitha praised the patient for his cooperation to the doctors and the treatment. “He was very cooperative and never gave us any trouble during his treatment here,” she told reporters at the hospital. Nodal officer of medicine Dr U B Padmanaban of this hospital said that everyone should take a cue from the patient for his voluntary approach. “ He did not even inform his family for four days from his admission,” he said. He had gone to Dubai in search of a job. After 45 days of stay, he returned to India. After landing at the Trichy International Airport, he had cough. He voluntarily approached the health department team conducting screening at the airport and got him diagnosed. Since he had the symptoms, he was rushed to the isolation ward at MGMGH. The results confirmed the infection of Covid-19. “He tested positive in the second test also, but we never gave up. The treatment was intensified. The third test showed he was negative. We are very happy that he got cured,” said the dean adding that the usual treatment to the symptoms, high-protein diet and counselling were given to him. Dean said that he should compulsorily follow the 28 more quarantine period at his house. Deputy director of health services (DDHS) in Erode will track his status. Citing the successful treatment, the dean has appealed to the people not to panic if anyone gets infected.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/discharged-man-gets-warm-send-off/articleshow/75088955.cms||---
April 11, 2020||Aurangabad||Institute continues classes through online learning tool||Aurangabad: Making the best use of available technology, MIT Polytechnic located at Rotegaon near Aurangabad has continued the teaching-learning process through virtual classrooms with an aim to engage students amid the lockdown.Principal Kishor Patil said the institute has been using Google classroom application and other tools as a new way of the education delivery system to overcome challenges associated during the outbreak of Covid-19“Different online learning tools have drastically reduced the barrier of distance. By using these tools, students have contact sessions with teachers. They are attending live classroom sessions on Google Hangout. Among other available tools, Whatsapp has also been effectively used for the distance education mode. Over 91% of students have been directly calling their teachers for quick resolution of doubts,” he said.“The institute has been delivering study notes to 300 students in the form of audio-visual files, presentations, soft copies of handwritten notes, PDF files and links of educational websites. It is serving as a good source of study material for students confined in their homes,” he said.As the next step towards e-learning, students also get question bank using online tools. “After attending online sessions, students solve the given problems from question banks. As per the data analysis carried out by us, 27% of students spent three hours studying extra, while 24% invest two hours in studying after attending the virtual classroom, 15 % are found to be studying four hours more whereas 5% invest as many as eight hours in studying ,” Patil said.MIT Polytechnic has also started evaluating students based on their performance in online learning.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/institute-continues-classes-through-online-learning-tool/articleshow/75088462.cms||---
April 11, 2020||Trichy||Trichy: Covid-19 positive Tablighi Jamaat members throw masks away inside hospital||TRICHY: Protests by some of the Covid-19 positive Tablighi Jamaat delegates being treated at the Mahatma Gandhi memorial government hospital (MGMGH) in Trichy on Friday prompted the hospital to seek help from community leaders. Few patients among the 36 Covid-19 positive TJ members, isolated in the super specialty block in the hospital, demanded to meet the hospital dean Dr K Vanitha to air some grievances. When they were denied permission, the patients entered into an argument with some of the hospital staff. The hospital administration alleged some of the patients even threw their masks down, close to a nurse. The hospital administration brought the issue to the notice of the assistant commissioner of police (ACP) Srirangam range K Ramachandran and later Trichy collector S Sivarasu, who had come to the hospital to send off a 24-year-old man, who recovered from Covid-19 infection. “I have arranged for providing counselling to those patients to explain to them about the nature of treatment and the need to cooperate with doctors. In case of any disruption to the health workers, they will also be liable for action,” Collector Sivarasu told TOI. On receiving the information about the issue, came to the hospital. “They pulled off their masks and threw it down near a nurse, saying they are very healthy and they didn’t need it,” said TMMK Trichy deputy secretary T Abdul Raheem, who was called to mediate. He said the decision of the hospital administration to bring elderly women relatives of two positive patients to the hospital for isolation triggered the protest. “Since both of them are senior citizens and there is no one to take care of them in the hospital, the patients demanded that the hospital quarantine them at home,” said Abdul Raheem. “I have calmed them and they have agreed to cooperate with the doctors following which the elderly women were brought to the hospital this afternoon,” Raheem said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/covid-ve-tj-members-protest-at-mgmgh/articleshow/75088950.cms||---
April 11, 2020||Delhi||After seven new areas sealed in Delhi, total number goes up to 30||NEW DELHI: Delhi government sealed seven more areas on Friday, taking the number of containment zones in the city to 30. The new areas are Chandni Mahal and Nabi Karim in Central district, G-174 Capital Greens and neighbouring areas in Moti Nagar, B-1/2 Paschim Vihar and areas around it, 11/3, 2nd floor, Ashok Nagar and surrounding areas, Pocket E of GTB Enclave, and Gali numbers 18 to 22 in Zakir Nagar and nearby areas of Abu Bakar Masjid. All 30 zones, where Covid-19 patients have been found, have been sealed to check the spread of novel coronavirus and are put under surveillance of health officials. They will regularly review the situation and the containment order in an area will be lifted only on the basis of the health authorities’ reports. The zones have been barricaded and police deployed to stop any movement into or out of the area. Even residents are not allowed to gather inside a zone and everyone has been advised to remain under home quarantine. An FIR will be lodged if anybody violates the containment orders. A screening exercise of the residents showing symptoms of Covid-19 has been going on in all zones. Sanitisation exercises have started in the new areas. The government has directed officials of the food and supply and the drugs control departments to ensure adequate supply of essential items to the people living in the containment zones.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/after-seven-new-areas-sealed-in-delhi-total-number-goes-up-to-30/articleshow/75088972.cms||AlokKNMishra
April 11, 2020||Coimbatore||3 more TJ attendees test +ve in Nilgiris||Udhagamandalam: Three more attendees of Tabligi Jamaat (TJ) conference in Delhi from the Nilgiris have tested positive for Covid-19 on Friday. With this, the total number of positive cases in the district has touched seven. Having tested negative for the virus earlier, all of them were in quarantine at the isolation ward of the government hospital in Ooty for the past 14 days. While two of them are from Kotagiri, the remaining is a resident of Coonoor. Nilgiris collector J Innocent Divya said, “The three have been shifted to the ESI Hospital in Coimbatore for further treatment.” Earlier, the district administration had found out that 11 local residents had attended the TJ conference in Delhi. While eight of them returned to the district, two were held back in Delhi and one in Bengaluru. The eight were asked to remain in home quarantine, but they were shifted to the Ooty government hospital on April 1.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/3-more-tj-attendees-test-ve-in-nilgiris/articleshow/75088964.cms||---
April 11, 2020||Nagpur||Tribal Devpt Dept propagates use of homemade masks||Nagpur: The state’s Tribal Development Department (TDD) is propagating the use of masks in tribal areas to ensure that preventive measures are in place to control the spread of Covid-19. Under the aegis of the Integrated Tribal Development Project (Gadchiroli), a guidebook on homemade masks has been released which will have detailed information on not only how to make it but also about its benefits. With the primary focus on safeguarding the tribal community from the fast-spreading coronavirus using readily available materials, the guidebook was prepared in collaboration with zilla parishad officials. “This informative booklet will initially be distributed at every project office or taluka level. With the help of the booklet, tribals living in remote areas of Maharashtra will be able to make their masks in a safe and hygienic way, thus creating an inexpensive protection from the virus,” said Rahul Gupta, ITDP project officer. TDD has been taking numerous steps to prevent the spread of coronavirus amongst the members of the tribal and non-tribal communities through its field officers. “Reaching out to tribals and convincing them to use masks is not as difficult as one would imagine. We have seen that tribals always follow rules and guidelines once you tell them that it’s for their benefit. To get the message across, we also connect with tribals through SHGs working in that particular area,” said Gupta. The guidebook contains instructions for the use of masks as directed by the World Health Organization (WHO) and the importance of using masks to prevent the spread of coronavirus. “Homemade masks provide great advantage over disposable ones. They are cheaper, re-usable and are great for Covid-19 preparedness. It would also encourage self-help groups to take it up and give them an avenue for enterprise in these troubled times,” said Gupta. It contains detailed information on the precautions to be taken while making a homemade mask, how to use it, why to use it, how to maintain it, the difference between the types of masks, the materials that are readily available to make the mask and so on.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/tribal-devpt-dept-propagates-use-of-homemade-masks/articleshow/75087623.cms||Abhishek Choudhari
April 11, 2020||Hubballi||Rising dengue cases leave authorities worried||Basavaraj Meeshi Belagavi: Amidst surge in Covid-19 cases in the district, the administration has to now brace for the additional task of controlling dengue. The district in a span of a month beginning March has reported 37 dengue cases. Panic gripped the district when a 12-year-old boy succumbed to dengue a fortnight ago, at a time when administration is overwhelmingly working on coronavirus pandemic. According to the district vector-borne disease control department, so far 98 suspected Dengue cases have been detected since March, of which 37 have confirmed positive. The officers say controlling dengue has become an uphill task as the entire health machinery is engaged in dealing with coronavirus situation. Belagavi has reported 10 Covid-19 cases so far. Asha workers usually start conducting door-to-door surveys and campaigns to create awareness against dengue and malaria. Now they are overburdened as they play a key role in the fight against Covid-19 as well as vector-borne diseases. District malaria control officer MS Palled tolf TOI: “Our staff are working on containment measures following the action plan which we regularly do during this period,” he said. Admitting that it is hard to work on dengue in the time of coronavirus he said the department is doing its best.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hubballi/rising-dengue-cases-leave-authorities-worried/articleshow/75087627.cms||---
April 11, 2020||Jaipur||Migrant labourers who returned to their villages can apply for work under MGNREGA||JAIPUR: The state MGNREGA commissioner P C Kishan has issued directions to the chief executive officers of the zila parishads to ensure that even those migrant labourers who have returned to their villages in Rajasthan from other states are given jobs on demand. They have been told to provide works to new applicants/families as well, he said. “The migrant labourers, who have returned from other states, can demand for work in their own villages in Rajasthan. They can work in their villages by registering themselves as MGNREGA workers,” Kishan said. “Mostly, these migrant labourers, who have returned, must be having job cards in their villages. They have been told that even if they don’t have NREGA job cards, it should be issued to them on demand. I have instructed the CEOs that they should be liberal and proactive in providing works to new applicants or families if they demand for work,” Kishan added. Kishan further said only those people who belong to Rajasthan can be provided jobs under MGNREGA. “The gram panchayat officials have a list of all the households in the villages and the sarpanch knows everyone by their names and faces. The members of a particular family or people living in the villages are also members of gram sabha. So, the sarpaches know them personally,” he added. Of the total workers, around 50% of them are present at the work site on any given day due to Covid-19 scare, an official had earlier said. As the Centre has refused to sanction an amount of Rs 301 crore to the state for payment without work, the state government could not stop MGNREGA work in Rajasthan. While chief minister Ashok Ghelot had earlier said that MGNREGA workers need not come to the worksites till March 31 and they would be paid wages during the lockdown period, the department had urged the chief minister’s office (CMO) to bring out a fresh direction stating that the decision violated the provisions of the Act. It was not permitted to pay wages to the workers without coming to the worksite under the Act.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/migrant-labourers-who-returned-to-their-villages-can-apply-for-work-under-mgnrega/articleshow/75088973.cms||---
April 11, 2020||Hyderabad||Arunachal CM thanks Telangana police for ensuring students’ well-being||HYDERABAD: Arunachal Pradesh chief minister Prema Khandu thanked Telangana police for helping five youngsters from the state, by ensuring that their paying guest accommodation provides them food and shelter during lockdown. Khandu tweeted evening: “I would like to thank M Mahendar Reddy, DGP Telangana for responding to distress calls of Arunachalee students in the state and resolving those matters. Together we stand in this fight against COVID19.” DGP Mahendar Reddy responded saying, “Thank you sir. We feel honoured serving people.” Rachkonda police had on Thursday received a distress call from the students, saying that PG’s owner had asked them to vacate.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/arunachal-cm-thanks-t-police-for-ensuring-students-well-being/articleshow/75088976.cms||---
April 11, 2020||Kolkata||Bhawanipore coils into home after resident tests positive||KOLKATA: Bhowanipore has gone into a reinforced lockdown and wore an even more deserted look after a Burrabazar trader — who resides at the south Kolkata neighbourhood — tested positive to Covid-19 on Thursday. While one of his business contacts and neighbour is now in home quarantine, a 70-year-old woman from nearby Elgin Road has tested positive, fuelling a panic in the area. While entry into the five-storied building where the trader lived has been barred, almost none ventured out into the streets on Friday. Morning-walkers, who would occasionally come out for a stroll, disappeared along with the queues at the local grocery shops. A few local youths who would often defy the shutdown to sneak out for a quick chat session or just loiter around, kept indoors. Early on Friday, a KMC team fumigated the affected building and the surrounding areas. Padmapukur Road, along with the adjacent Bakul Bagan Road and Madhav Chatterjee Lane, remained completely deserted on Friday morning. Till a day back, residents would venture out to buy provisions. Senior citizens skipped their early morning stroll along Padmapukur Road. All the four grocery shops in the area selling essential items shut down early in the absence of customers who stayed away in panic. These shops cater mostly to the building where the Covid-10 patient lived and its surrounding buildings. Meanwhile, another person who resides at Padmapukur Road — about 70 meters from the affected building — and claims to have close business relation with the positive patient, has been home quarantined. He has reportedly been suffering from fever for the last three days. The person, aged around 45, has a wholesale medicine business at Mehta Building, close to the positive patient’s shop. His condition is now stable, according to local councillor Ashim Bose. On Elgin Road, not too far from Padmapukur, 20 employees of a nationalised bank branch had to be quarantined after the mother one employee tested Covid positive. These cases have left residents of this belt extremely jittery. Adding to fear, Bose has ordered all the traders of Jadubabur Bazar to shut down the market by noon everyday till further notice. He said this is a part of precautionary measures to avoid crowding in the market. Since the residents of most high-rises in Bhowanipur buy vegetables, grocery and fruits from the market, sellers are wary. A local grocery shop owner, Bunty Bhai, welcomed the decision. “Restricted hours of business — 7am to noon — will save us,” he said. Residents said they had never been so scared to venture out. “So far, we have been going to the market or grocery shops to buy essentials. Since Thursday, we are scared to step out on to the road. But we can’t afford to lock ourselves up completely for soon we will run out of provisions and must visit the market again,” said Abhijit Nandy, a resident of Padmapukur Road.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/bhawanipore-coils-into-home-after-resident-tests-positive/articleshow/75088491.cms||---
April 11, 2020||Dehradun||U’khand proposes to shut edu institutions till May 15||Dehradun: In a proposal drafted by the state government on Friday (whose final approval will be given by the Centre), it has been proposed that educational institutions in the state should remain closed till May 15. The state has further proposed to make mandatory wearing of masks and ensure social distancing is followed till May 31. Further, hotels, lodges, homestays, malls, cinema halls, multiplexes, gyms, restaurants, bars and religious institutions are also proposed to remain closed throughout the state, the proposal states. It adds that no air conditioning will be permitted in any of the government, commercial or industrial building till May 15. The proposal comes soon after CM Trivendra Singh Rawat on Friday had advocated the need to extend the lockdown period in the entire country. “The country has shown unity in its fight against novel coronavirus and to get rid of it, the lockdown should not be lifted on April 14, but further extended,” he said. The CM further said that the state will stick to its six-hour relaxation window during the lockdown period.  “There have been several requests to cut down the relaxation time to three hours but we believe that it will lead to overcrowding, especially in the grocery shops. The six-hour time period has ensured that people can maintain social distance and at the same time easily buy essential products,” he added. The CM further said that the state has provided free ration to around 12 lakh BPL card holders, whereas the ration for over 10 lakh ‘State Food Scheme’ card holders has been doubled. On the issue of Tablighi Jamaat members, he said, “The Jamaat members were given time to appear before police for medical treatment. Strict action is being initiated against those missing or hiding their travel history. I would like to once again request the Jamaat members to appear before the police,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/ukhand-proposes-to-shut-edu-institutions-till-may-15/articleshow/75087645.cms||Kautilya Singh
April 11, 2020||Goa||Over 30 trees uprooted in Sattari||VALPOI: Heavy rains accompanied by gusty winds lashed Sattari taluka on Friday resulting in uprooting of over 30 trees, snapping of power supply and damage to a few houses. Firemen at Valpoi informed that a car was partially damaged at Padeli, Sattari after a tree fell on it. “As many as 30 trees got uprooted in entire taluka. Complaints of trees uprooting were pouring in," a fire official said. Water entered into houses at many places while a transformer was damaged after a tree fell on it thereby plunging Valpoi into darkness. Most roads in Valpoi and other villages of the taluka remained blocked due to the uprooted trees. Most stretches were inundated with water. At few places, locals cleared the tree branches as fire personnel were busy on other fronts. Chairperson of Valpoi Municipal Council Akhtar Ali Shah and Valpoi police inspector Shivram Vaingankar reviewed the situation||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/over-30-trees-uprooted-in-sattari/articleshow/75088987.cms||---
April 11, 2020||Dehradun||‘Schools asking for fees to face action’||Dehradun: The state education department, on Friday, said that strict action will be taken against those schools which are asking for fees from parents. The department stated that it is a clear violation of its recent order which said that schools should not ask for fees from the parents until they reopen. The order has been issued after the department received complaints against some private schools which are pressurising parents to submit their ward’s fees with immediate effect. Meanwhile, Principal Progressive Schools Association, a body representing schools, has requested the state government to lift this restriction stating that schools won’t be able to carry out daily affairs, pay salaries and other bills if parents don’t submit fees on time.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/schools-asking-for-fees-to-face-action/articleshow/75088490.cms||Mohammad Anab
April 11, 2020||Dehradun||Flower cultivators suffering losses as temples, wedding venues and hotels cancel orders||Nainital: The closure of all major wedding venues, hotels and temples due to the lockdown has led to flower cultivators across Uttarakhand suffer heavy losses. TOI spoke to several farmers who said that they are holding on an average a stock of over 50,000 cut flowers worth over Rs 10 lakh, most of which was ready to be shipped. “The lockdown has had a severe impact on the flower business since we deal with a highly perishable commodity. In fact, because of the lockdown, I haven’t even been able to go to my fields,” said Bhagwan Patil, a cultivator from Bhimtal area of Nainital, one of the many clusters in Uttarakhand where flowers are grown commercially. The hill state is one of the leading producers of cut flowers and thousands of farmers depend on demand from places such as Delhi, Punjab, Lucknow and Kanpur to sell their produce. The state’s economic survey for 2018-19 shows that around 1,533 hectares in the state is under commercial flower cultivation. The state produces over 154 crore cut flowers and around 2538 metric tonnes of loose flowers every year. Farmers said that due to the lockdown and ban on any gathering, most buyers have been cancelling orders. “I have around 70,000 flowers ready to be sent to various cities. Much of our business comes from wedding venues as well as hotels and restaurants which use flowers for decoration. Since all of them are closed, we are left with no choice but to let the flowers rot in the fields,” said Ashok Kumar, a flower cultivator, adding that his losses will only increase if the lockdown is extended after April 14. RC Shrivastava, former director of the state horticulture department, said, “The state produces more than 12 crore cut flowers every month and most of it is shipped to other states. This is the only source of income for thousands of farmers.” Meanwhile, another farmer, Budhasen Maurya, who owns six flower fields, said that due to less demand and chance of lockdown increasing, he was unsure if he would be able to pay his workers. “I have 12 people working in my fields. For the past three weeks, we have not shipped even a single batch. Though I paid the workers last time, I don’t know how I will be able to pay them this time,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/flower-cultivators-suffering-losses-as-temples-wedding-venues-and-hotels-cancel-orders/articleshow/75087640.cms||Prashant Jha
April 11, 2020||Rajkot||Rajkot: Truck driver ends life after escaping home quarantine||RAJKOT: A truck driver allegedly committed suicide after escaping from home quarantine in Upleta town of Rajkot district. Ghanshyam Kandoriya (30), had returned from Bengaluru on April 3 and was advised to stay at home for 14 days. However, he left his house on Thursday night and his body was found in forest area near Sokli village of Junagadh district on Friday morning. A forest department labourer noticed the body and informed police. Pradeepsinh Jadeja, deputy superintendent of police, Junagadh said they also found a bottle of pesticide beside Kandoriya’s body. "We have informed his relatives and sent the body for postmortem," said Jadeja. In another incident, a 28-year-old woman, who had consumed acid at her house in Pipaliyaraj village near Wankaner, died in Rajkot Civil Hospital on Friday. “She consumed acid at home and was rushed to Rajkot Civil Hospital late on Thursday night. She died on Friday,” said police.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/truck-driver-ends-life-after-escaping-home-quarantine/articleshow/75088497.cms||---
April 11, 2020||Vadodara||Courts to hear major cases through video conferencing||Vadodara: Courts in Vadodara will hear all important cases only through video conferencing facility from Friday. Until now only important cases, which would need urgent hearing, were being heard in the courtrooms.In a circular on Wednesday, principal district judge M R Mengdey stated two special video conferencing courts have been operationalized in the district court building at Diwalipura. The important matters will be heard using zoom video conferencing application. Lawyers have been asked to contact district registrar a day prior to the hearing to take time. The lawyers have also been advised to avoid presence of their clients during hearing through video conferencing and if their presence is necessary then social distancing norms be strictly followed. It has also been directed that if examination of a witness or any of the parties is to be done through video conferencing, all concerned parties’ consent should be taken.tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/courts-to-hear-major-cases-through-video-conferencing/articleshow/75088981.cms||---
April 11, 2020||Delhi||137 booked for stepping out without mask in Delhi||NEW DELHI: In a first, 137 people were booked by police on Friday for stepping out of their houses without wearing a mask. The violators were detained and FIRs were lodged against them under the IPC section related to disobeying government orders. Delhi government has made it mandatory for residents to wear a mask while stepping out of their homes. Police said people covering their faces with handkerchiefs were warned and asked to get proper masks. The masks can be the standard ones available with chemists or homemade masks that can be reused after washing and disinfecting, said a police officer. In all, 32 cases were registered in northwest Delhi, 23 in south, 20 in north, 14 in outer and 48 in Shahdara district. A senior police officer said that not wearing a mask while stepping out of home can land a violator in jail for up to six months. “Violators may have to cough up fines between Rs 200 and Rs 1,000,” the officer added. The Covid patrol teams have been asked to deal with the violation firmly. On Friday, when a person was found walking or riding a bike without a mask, he was asked the reason for not complying with the government order. If a genuine reason was given, then the policemen either gave a surgical mask or asked the violator to get one. If the reason was flimsy, the person was detained and booked. Police said the crackdown will become strict over the next few days. Drones will be used to scan colony roads to ensure that people do not step out of their homes unnecessarily. Meanwhile, police registered one FIR in Mehrauli for violating the social distancing norm during Shab-e-Barat and 240 people were detained in north Delhi for gathering at a crematorium.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/137-booked-for-stepping-out-without-mask-in-delhi/articleshow/75088988.cms||---
April 11, 2020||Hyderabad||Sultan bazar constable meets with accident||HYDERABAD: A constable from Sultan Bazar police station, who was returning to his residence after work in the wee hours of morning on Thursday, met with an accident. The constable, M Raju, is in critical condition at a hospital in Malakpet . Police said that Raju met with the accident at Chaderghat bridge at 3 am after a dog suddenly jumped in front of his bike. He fell off the bike and sustained injuries to his head. He was wearing a helmet but since the buckle was not locked, he suffered serious head injuries and bleeding.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/constable-meets-with-accident/articleshow/75088979.cms||---
April 11, 2020||Dehradun||U’khand proposes to extend lockdown till April 30||Dehradun: In a meeting chaired by chief minister Trivendra Singh Rawat along with senior bureaucrats and police officers on Friday, the government proposed to extend the lockdown in the state till April 30. The proposal is being forwarded to the Centre for final clearance, government sources said. The proposal, a copy of which is with TOI, mentions that section 144 of CrPC will remain imposed in the state till April 30 and no gathering of people above five will be allowed. Though strict lockdown has been proposed for the entire state till April 30, the government may give certain relaxations to districts without a single Covid-19 case in the past fortnight (these districts have been marked as ‘category A’). Districts that have reported Covid-19 cases recently will be placed in ‘category B’ and hotspots identified in such districts will continue to see ban on movement and the local administration will continue the delivery of essential commodities in these areas. Strict enforcement of social distancing policy will be enforced up to May 31, the proposal adds specifying that no movement between India and Nepal as well as no interstate movement will be permitted till April 30 by any mode. “No inter-district or intra-district movement, except cargo, will be permitted in category B districts while in category A areas, permission for inter-district or intra-district movement can be considered by respective district magistrates. However, industrial, construction and mining activity will be permitted in all districts of state except Covid-19 hotspots. This would only be allowed after the DM reviews the prevalent health scenario and risks involved in the task,” states the proposal prepared by Uttarakhand government which will be shared with the Centre for approval on Saturday. For construction or other related activities, the concerned authorities will have to take NOC from the DM in which they have to elaborate the safety measures being taken by them along with assurance of maintaining social distancing and hygiene. The employers have to give undertaking that no person serving a quarantine period will be involved in the construction activity. Any failure regarding the same would invite strict action, the proposal says. Stamp and registration activity would be permitted in the state in regulated manner with strict adherence to social distancing and electronic transfer of stamp purchase and payments. Vehicles with only one person will be allowed to ply in category A districts between 7 am to 1 pm. And if any Covid-19 case emerges in category A district later, the lockdown will be strictly enforced. MGNREGS works will be permitted in all category A districts provided social distance and hygiene guidelines are followed, the proposal says. Meanwhile, no new case of Covid-19 was reported in the state in the past 48 hours. Among the total 35 reported cases, five have recovered while 30 are admitted to hospitals where their condition is reported to be stable.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/ukhand-proposes-to-extend-lockdown-till-april-30/articleshow/75087651.cms||---
April 11, 2020||Vadodara||2k slum dwellers without food for 4 days||Vadodara: Varsha Solanki, 39, has been rendered jobless since the lockdown came into effect last month. Until recently, she did not have any problem as different NGOs and groups distributed meals to her and 400 other odd households in the Subhashnagar slums near Vishwamitri. But for last four days, she has been managing with whatever is left in her house. “We have some rice and other few other items, but that is not enough and there is no money in the house to buy anything,” she said. Solanki is not the only one, some 2,000 residents of Subhashnagar slums are going through the same ordeal since the district administration put a brake on NGOs distributing food among the less privileged. The men in these slums work as casual labourers earning money on daily basis while the women work as domestic help in residential societies of Manjalpur. “Our employers have asked us not to come even before the lockdown came into effect due to which we have not even earned our salaries,” said Rani Kaur, another resident. Rajesh Padhiyar, who works at the Gajrawadi crematorium, said, “There was no problem so far as the NGOs used to come twice with food, but now whoever has some food left are sharing with their neighbours and managing. But that is not going to be enough,” he said. There are only 30 households which have a ration card to buy grains from fair price shop, Padhiyar added. “We contacted our local municipal councillor Gopal Gohil he gave us the ward officer’s contact number. When the ward officer was contacted he said that he has not been given any instructions from his seniors so I called up the MLA Seema Mohile, but she only made promises,” he said. TOI contacted Gohil, but the calls went unanswered.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/2k-slum-dwellers-without-food-for-4-days/articleshow/75088995.cms||Bharat Pathak
April 11, 2020||Pune||Collector to probe travel permission granted by Mulshi SDO||Pune: District collector Naval Kishore Ram said an inquiry would be conducted on a travel permission issued by Maval/Mulshi sub divisonal officer Sandesh Shirke to an individual to travel from Pune to Bandra East on April 8. The person is related to an political leader from the city. “We have to find out if the permission was given for an emergency or for some other reason,” he said. Shirke told TOI that someone from his office had used his signature seal to grant permission. “I have to travel out of office to check for food supplies to migrant camps. I keep a seal in the office so that officials can issue permission for movement of essential supplies or medical equipment. I will initiate an inquiry in my office to find out who gave the permission,” he told TOI.Meanwhile, leader of the opposition Devendra Fadnavis said chief minister Uddhav Thackeray and home minister Anil Deshmukh must explain how permission was granted to the Wadhawan family to travel from Khandala to Mahabaleshwar. — Nisha Nambiar||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/collector-to-probe-travel-permission-granted-by-mulshi-sdo/articleshow/75088996.cms||Nisha Nambiar
April 11, 2020||Kolkata||Drug green light for West Bengal Chemicals||KOLKATA: Bengal Chemicals and Pharmaceuticals, the first pharma company of British-ruled India, on Friday received nod from the state directorate of drugs control to manufacture hydroxychloroquine. With adequate supply of raw materials, the company can manufacture at least 8 lakh hydroxychloroquine tablets per day. “We have received the drug manufacturing licence from the West Bengal Directorate of Drugs Control. We can now start manufacturing hydroxychloroquine tablets. We are waiting for the response from the API (Active Pharmaceutical Ingredients) to procure raw materials,” a company official said. Currently, Ipca Laboratories is the largest manufacturer of hydroxychloroquine in the world, followed by Torrent and Zydus Cadila, pointed out senior physician Sukumar Mukherjee. “Bengal Chemicals does not produce raw materials, or the API. We have approached the central and the state governments to help us in sourcing raw materials as there is a shortage in the market. There are a few Indian companies that manufacture API but they are also short on supplies,” the official said. A top company official said hydroxychloroquine would be manufactured at their plant near EM Bypass-Maniktala crossing. Bengal Chemicals, which has been producing anti-malarial drug chloroquine for more than eight decades, did not have the licence for hydroxychloroquine—the drug that is being touted as the “game changer” in fighting Covid-19. The company on Thursday applied for a drug manufacturing licence from the state government, which was granted within 24 hours. “Both chloroquine and hydroxychloroquine had a restricted usage among patients. While we manufactured chloroquine, we had not ventured into its analogous compound hydroxychloroquine. The demand surged after some countries got favourable response after treating Covid-19 patients with hexachloroquine,” the official added. Meanwhile, the company is readying its facility to start production as soon as they receive raw materials. While it would take two days for Bengal Chemicals to start production after a few tests, the challenge is availability of raw materials. So far, the bulk of raw materials were imported from countries like China and Taiwan, apart from at least three companies in India. With the lockdown in force, Bengal Chemicals will now have to depend solely on Indian API manufacturers. Darjeeling MP Raju Bista, meanwhile, spoke to the Union health ministry to ramp up production of cinchona plant — a source for quinine.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/drug-green-light-for-bengal-chemicals/articleshow/75088500.cms||Rohit Khanna
April 11, 2020||Pune||Quarantine on a stricter watch, say govt officials||Pune: State health officials and the police will clamp down upon home quarantine violations and monitor those seeking permissions for travel during the lockdown. A senior government official told TOI that each district now has a plan to keep vigil after the Wadhawan family travelled from Khandala to Mahabaleshwar during lockdown. “District collectors and police officials will put in place the monitoring system. Essential services and a medical emergency cases get permission from the authorities to travel,” the official said. A cellphone application monitors those under home quarantine. District administration officials said there are nearly 11, 245 persons under home quarantine who are monitored through Maharashtra Home Quarantine Tracking System, a selfie-based face recognition and geo-location tracking application. The AI engine analyses the uploaded information to record the quarantine attendance. If the user fails to upload a genuine picture or if they are away from their registered geo-location an is triggered on the dashboard for authorised personnel to take action for non-compliance of home quarantine guidelines. Police officers keep track and each individual is told put out his or her selfie at least 5-6 times a day to ensure that they are at home. The same process is followed with 284 persons under institutional quarantine in the district. Technical consultant to the state government Subhash Salunkhe told TOI that district authorities have to keep strict watch on those under quarantine and their movement. “Additional police force have to be deployed to prevent movement. These are strict orders and they have to be followed,” he told TOI.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/quarantine-on-a-stricter-watch-say-govt-officials/articleshow/75089004.cms||Nisha Nambiar
April 11, 2020||Goa||Goa may get showers this weekend||PANAJI: The Easter weekend could see showers of blessings — quite literally — as the India meteorological department (IMD) has said that there could be a light thunderstorm in Goa. “We can expect afternoon showers, but the intensity of rain may differ. There is a possibility of a light thunderstorm,” said IMD scientist Rahul MC. “IMD has issued a weather warning for Saturday.” On Friday, many parts of Goa saw showers and gusty winds, which led to the uprooting of trees and power failures. The IMD attributed the reason for this to a trough in the Arabian Sea that has been ‘oscillating’ over the past four-five days. “On Friday, its location was from east-central Arabian Sea to Vidarbha, and it passed very close to Goa through/to Karnataka. Also, easterly winds had come to a height of around 3km, carrying with them thunderstorm clouds from Karnataka to Goa,” IMD said. The quantitative rainfall for Friday will be released by IMD on Saturday. Since the period from March to May is called pre-monsoon season, IMD Goa said that this weekend’s rain could be classified as pre-monsoon showers or summer rains.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/state-may-get-showers-this-weekend/articleshow/75089012.cms||---
April 11, 2020||Dehradun||Migrant labourers in several slum areas of Doon getting by with only 200 gm rice cooked with vegetables for lunch, and a glass of water for dinner||Dehradun: Govind Singh, 33, has been having ‘tehri’, a dish cooked with rice and vegetables, for the past one week. That is what some volunteers from a social organisation, with the help of police personnel, come to distribute to people in his slum — Gabbar Singh Basti — every day for lunch during the lockdown. He told a TOI team that visited his slum on Friday that he often does not eat anything for dinner as no one comes to distribute food after sunset and on most days, he just drinks water and sleeps on an empty stomach. It’s a similar routine for Durbal Sharma, 28, another labourer who lives in Chetna Basti. He claimed that dry ration was last distributed in the basti on March 29 and since the last 10 days, he has been surviving on just one meal a day. Both Singh and Sharma are from Bihar and had migrated to Dehradun a few years ago in search of work. Each of them stays with 5-6 other people in a small room where the concept of social distancing can’t work. Neither is much hygiene maintained, with over 12 people sharing one tiny toilet. The residents claimed they have never seen anyone from the municipal corporation either sainitising the area, or even spraying any disinfectant ever since the pandemic hit the headlines. It is estimated that there are around 5 lakh migrant labourers in the state, most of whom are from UP and Bihar. A survey done a few days ago by Doon-based NGO Chetna Andolan, which works with daily wagers, found that at least 45 percent of the population of migrant workers and slum dwellers in the city does not have enough provisions to survive for more than three days while 43 percent had just about enough provisions to last a week. Speaking to TOI, Shankar Gopalakrishnan, joint convener of Chetna Andolan, said that even though the governments, both at the centre and in the state, have introduced measures to help these workers, the ground reality is that the help meant for them is hardly reaching all of them. "A lot of officials and NGOs have been working hard to get food to people who need it. But many of these workers do not have ration cards or other documents and are unable to access supplies of daily essentials provided by the government. But the current system makes it quite hard for workers to know what they'll get and is difficult to rely on. In some areas, cooked food packets are reaching, but only once a day, which is not sufficient. Where dry ration is being provided, it is often for one person in a room which has 5-6 people and the worker then has to ask again after a few days. If this situation continues, the problem is likely to increase manifold," he added. When TOI contacted VS Pal, the government official who is in-charge of distributing food at Gabbar Singh Basti, he said that the area was being supplied with 75 to 90 packets of food initially which has now gone up to 200 packets these days. “We are trying to provide all possible help. There are control room numbers, as well as contacts of the local police station. If people are facing problems, they need to come forward and tell us what they need, otherwise how do we get to know?” he added. Madan Kaushik, spokesperson of the state government meanwhile said that the government has already provided ration for next three months to every person who has a ration card. “For those who don’t have ration cards, like migrant workers, we are giving them kits of 12kg of dry ration. When they exhaust it, they can get it again. People can approach the control room for the same,” he added. However, responding to the officials’ claims, migrant labourers said that it is not an easy job for them to get either cooked meals or dry ration. Pratap, a daily wager, said that when he contacted the local corporator for help in getting food, he was told to go the nearby ‘Modi Kitchen’ (which is being run by a local BJP MLA) to eat. “The Modi Kitchen is at least 3 km from our basti. How can we go there two times in a day when the lockdown is enforced?” On the issue of supply of dry ration, Muneem, a construction labourer who lives near Canal Road, said that he has called the control room at least five times in a week and also went to the local police station thrice but to no avail. “They simply told me ration is finished and they will call back when supply is resumed. I never got a call though,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/migrant-labourers-in-several-slum-areas-of-doon-getting-by-with-only-200-gm-rice-cooked-with-vegetables-for-lunch-and-a-glass-of-water-for-dinner/articleshow/75087671.cms||Ishita Mishra
April 11, 2020||Vadodara||Seventh patient discharged in Vadodara||Vadodara: “Amazing, amazing!” – is how Vipul Patel reacted, taking his first steps towards freedom after getting discharged from GMERS Medical College and Hospital, Gotri on Friday. Patel, 56-year-old Delhi resident, the ninth patient in the city to test positive, has fully recovered from his COVID-19 infection. Patel had landed in Vadodara last month accompanying his 55-year-old friend from United Kingdom (UK) Nikhil Patel, who was in the city to treat his kidney-related ailment through ayurveda and yoga. But a couple of days later, Nikhil, who developed high-grade fever, tested coronavirus positive. A day later, Vipul, who was kept under quarantine, also tested positive. On Friday as he walked out of the hospital, he thanked the doctors and the medical team for ensuring his full recovery. He also confessed and apologised before a doctor for entering into unnecessary arguments with the latter who was treating him. “All of them are away from their home but are working with full dedication just to ensure that patients like me recover,” he said, while expressing his gratitude.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/seventh-patient-discharged-in-vadodara/articleshow/75089009.cms||---
April 11, 2020||Delhi||Delhi: Show-cause notice issued to Bengali Market shopowner||NEW DELHI: The New Delhi Municipal Council (NDMC) on Friday issued show-cause notice to the owner of Bangla Pastry Shop in Bengali Market for violating health licensing conditions. The vendor was given 10 days to explain reasons why his shop licence should not be revoked, failing which the unit would be sealed without further notice, said an NDMC official. The move came two days after the civic agency found 35 persons residing inside the pastry shop in small space with no norms of social distancing being followed. Police had also registered a case against the owner of the shop on Thursday. “The vendor had violated licensing conditions, which included not maintaining high level hygiene by workers and ensuring no person suffers from contagious disease. As per the provision of Section 339 of NDMC Act, 1994, the council directed the vendor to show cause why the said health license should not be revoked on account of violations within 10 days of issuance of the notice otherwise NDMC could seal the premise in terms of Section 333 of the NDMC Act without further notice,” the notice said. The council would also take similar action against other defaulters if found violating guidelines set by the district administration on containment of Covid-19, the notice said. An NDMC official, meanwhile, said that the shop had licence till March 31 and it could not be renewed due to the lockdown. When TOI contacted Varjesh Aggarwal, owner of the pastry shop on Friday evening, he denied receiving any such notice. Earlier on Thursday, Aggawal had twitted: “Bengali Pastry Shop has been implicated for holding 35 people in shelter. the truth is that there were a total no of 35 staff from 3 DIFFERENT SHOPS and not just one. Our shop is closed since 25 mar @ArvindKejriwal @DCPSouthDelhi”. “It is to inform all , our shop has been defamed by social media as NONE of said 35 workers belongs to Bengali Pastry shop @neelkantbakshi @DCPSouthDelhi @DCPCentralDelhi @IndiaToday”.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/show-cause-notice-issued-to-bengali-mkt-shopowner/articleshow/75089007.cms||---
April 11, 2020||Mangaluru||7 of family come to M’luru by boat, are quarantined||Mangaluru: A man and six members of his family were booked for violating the lockdown. With restrictions being placed on coming from Kerala, and the Talapady border being sealed, a man and his family used the sea route to reach his house at Addor in Bajpe police station limits, putting the health of people at risk. City police commissioner P S Harsha said that Yakub, 48, and six others have been booked for violating the lockdown guidelines. He said that before the lockdown, Yakoob, a resident of Addor, had gone to Talapady along with his family. However, he got stuck there due to the lockdown. In order to come back home, he took the help of Shakir, hired a boat, and sailed back to Addor. Locals noticed them in a ration shop, and immediately alerted the police. Harsha said that Yakub and his family have been sent for medical tests, and will be quarantined in a hospital.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mangaluru/7-of-family-come-to-mluru-by-boat-are-quarantined/articleshow/75087670.cms||---
April 11, 2020||Goa||Goa: Governor seeks status on Covid-19, calls for social distancing||PANAJI: Chief minister Pramod Sawant on Friday briefed governor Satya Pal Malik over the coronavirus status in Goa and steps taken to prevent its spread. Sawant also informed Malik about the three-day door to door community survey that will be begin from Monday across the state to identify persons with Covid-19 symptoms. During the 30-minute meeting, Sawant said that the governor sought a review on the coronavirus status as he is scheduled to attend a meeting via video conference with President Ram Nath Kovind. Malik urged Sawant that social distancing should be enforced and ensure that precautions be taken while conducting the survey. Sawant also informed that out of seven positive cases found in Goa, one person has recovered and has been placed in government quarantine facility. Sawant informed the governor that there is no community transmission of Covid-19 in Goa, and that the state borders have being been sealed with no interstate movement of people being permitted He briefed Malik about the views by cabinet ministers with regard to continuation of lockdown for another 15 days. Sawant also told the governor that the virology lab has already been set up at Goa Medical College (GMC) and hospital and Covid-19 samples are being tested there. He also informed Malik that the last positive case of Covid-19 in Goa was detected on April 3. Opposition parties had made representations to the governor demanding cancellation of the survey, pointing out that it would lead to community transmission of Covid-19 as nearly 8,000 government employees, including teachers, would be on field.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/guv-seeks-status-on-covid-19-calls-for-social-distancing/articleshow/75089003.cms||---
April 11, 2020||Mysuru||Five including eight-year-old test positive for coronavirus||MYSURU: Five individuals including an 8-year-old boy tested positive for the novel coronavirus in Mysuru. All five are primary contacts of employees of Jubilant Life Sciences, the pharmaceutical firm in Nanjangud. With this the tally of covid positive cases jumps to 40. So far two individuals have been discharged and about 1,831 are under quarantine in Mysuru district. The boy is the son of an employee of the firm. All five in the family of P103 – wife, son, and in-laws have tested positive and have been hospitalized. With this the worst fears of Mysuru district administration is coming true as five primary contacts of positive cases from the company have now tested positive for the virus. MMCRI dean and director CP Nanjaraj said many patients at the Covid hospital have tested negative in the first test after hospitalization; they will be discharged if they test negative even in the second test. First employee discharged The first employee from Nanjangud’s pharmaceutical firm employee to test positive for the novel coronavirus was discharged on Friday. P52 was the first employee of Jubilant Life Sciences, Nanjangud, some 26 km from Mysuru city, to test positive for the virus. Of the total positive cases, 30 are either employees or their primary and secondary contacts. All are in the dedicated Covid hospital. Eight visited Delhi’s Nizamuddin Markaz and from New Delhi. One is a Dubai-returnee and another is his contact. Deputy commissioner Abhiram G Sankar said that the 35-year-old employee was first identified with the virus in the fourth week of March. He was treated for fever at a local hospital before he was shifted to the Covid hospital. P52's case continues to baffle authorities as he has no travel history nor has he had any contact wirh anyone who has travelled abroad. After him, 30 others including employees of the pharmaceutical form and their primary and secondary contacts have since contracted the virus. All of them have been isolated at the Covid hospital and their contacts in home quarantine. This is the first cluster outbreak of novel coronavirus in Karnataka. Officials are yet to map out the source of virus infection among its employees. The firm manufactures active pharmaceutical ingredients and has business with many foreign nations including China. ------||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mysuru/5-including-8-yr-old-test-positive/articleshow/75086824.cms||---
April 11, 2020||Pune||13 booked for gambling||Pune: The Pune Rural police on Thursday booked 13 men for gambling on the premises of a ZP primary school at Kasari village in Shirur. The Shikrapur police said three cellphones and Rs 1,280 were recovered from the spot. The men have been booked under IPC sections 188, 269 and 271 and the relevant sections of the Disaster Management Act. — Mihir Tanksale||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/13-booked-for-gambling/articleshow/75089016.cms||Mihir Tanksale
April 11, 2020||Vadodara||20 more test positive in Vadodara, tally touches 59||Vadodara: The number of coronavirus cases continued to surge in Vadodara with 20 more testing positive on Friday, taking the total number of positive cases to 59. Like Thursday when 21 had tested postive, majority of them surfaced from densely populated Nagarwada-Saiyedpura area that has already been declared as red zone since Sunday when the first case emerged from the locality. In all, 48 have tested positive in this area with 19 of the 20 tested postive on Friday being residents of this area. One case was reported from Bahar Colony on Ajwa Road. Vadodara district collector Shalini Agrawal said that the reports are based on mass sampling that was carried out in Nagarwada area as part of precautionary measure. The 20 infected include nine females and 11 males. The age group of those infected range from a 12-year-old boy to the 66-year-old man from Bahar Colony. Sources said that 12 other residents of Nagarwada are being treated as suspects at the GMERS Medical College and Hospital, Gotri which has been declared as COVID-19 hospital for Central Gujarat. Meanwhile, a Delhi-based resident, who was admitted at the hospital, last month, was discharged on Friday noon after .||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/20-more-test-positive-in-vadodara-tally-touches-59/articleshow/75089026.cms||---
April 11, 2020||Ajmer||For the needy, this Ajmer doctor is godsent||AJMER: One of the worst-hit by the lockdown are needy people who also require medical attention. With limited means and restricted movement, medical care is a luxury for them. But this 48-year-old doctor from Ajmer, who has taken up the cause to provide free treatment to such people, has given the downtrodden hope. A resident of Dholabhata and a private practitioner, Dr GS Bundela goes from door-to-door treating patients daily. He starts his visits at 6 am and returns home after 9 pm. During these hours, he visits the homes of at least 40 needy patients, providing treatment and giving medicines for free. The day he becomes free early, he sees patients under a tree outside his house, properly following the norms of social distancing. “There are times when I receive calls at midnight and I have to rush. Most of the times, they turn out to be panic attacks but in some case, like one on April 5, the patient was suffering from kidney-related problems and had to be referred to a hospital. I help patients with the formalities as hospital visits are not easy these days,” said Bundela, who uses his two wheeler to go on the visits. He regularly visits areas like Nagara, Jhalkari Nagar, Gujjar ki dharti, Sunhari Colony and others which have a substantial population of daily wagers. “Most of the people, including children, in these localities are malnourished and therefore it is very important to treat them early to maintain immunity,” said Bundela. He has a stock of regular medicines, vitamins and anti-depressants, which he distributes among the patients. That apart he keeps packets of flour and vegetables for distribution among the poor. While on his rounds, he often stops to talk to policemen on duty, inquiring about their health and if they needed medications. “I started on my own, but now there are several people helping me. The local chemists in my area provide me with medicines for patients while the local elected representatives have been helping me with ration distribution,” said Bundela, who also makes paid-visits to the homes of his regular patients. “I come from a humble background and know the struggles of a lower middle-class family. I cannot turn a blind eye to the needy at such a situation,” he added. His wife Sarla Mahawar is a professor of biochemistry at JLN Medical College and goes to work daily. As both remain out to serve during the lockdown, they maintain a safe distance from their two children after returning home. “It is really hard to keep away from children but we need to. Precaution is the only cure,” said Bundela.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ajmer/for-the-needy-this-ajmer-doctor-is-godsent/articleshow/75089020.cms||Kshitiz Gaur
April 11, 2020||Pune||Silver nanoparticles infused sanitizer on the anvil||Pune: City-based startup Weinnovate Biosolutions has developed a non-alcoholic and non-inflammable sanitizing solution containing silver nanoparticles, known to prevent the synthesis of viral molecules, which will be available in the market as soon as it gets CDSCO’s approval and a manufacturing licence.The startup received funding from the Union’s Department of Science and Technology (DST) and they claim that they can manufacture almost 200 litres of sanitizing solution per day. Co-founder and chief executive officer of the startup, Milind Choudhari, said, “We have applied for regulatory approvals from the Central Drugs Standard Control Organisation (CDSCO), which is the drug licensing authority. Once we get their approval we can get the manufacturing license. We are in the last stage of the approval and if they fast-track it, the sanitizer will be available in market by next week.”The startup claimed that the solution was water-based with silver nanoparticles made from NanoAgCide technology for disinfecting hands and environmental surfaces.Choudhari said, “The solution works on the ability of the silver nanoparticles to prevent the synthesis of viral negative-strand RNA and viral budding and it is free from hazardous chemicals and has no risk of catching fire compared to alcohol-based disinfectants.”“We are aiming to manufacture primarily a minimum of 200 litres of colloidal silver solution per day with our manufacturing set up to cater to the demand of hand sanitization and disinfection,” said co-founder Prasad Bhagat.An Indian patent has been filed for the process of making of colloidal silver, and a test license for making hand sanitizers and disinfectants has been granted. “Nanoparticles are rapidly emerging as effective solutions to a variety of issues related to Covid-19, from theranostics (therapy plus diagnostics) to disinfection to imaging. The relevance of nanoparticles can be attributed to their size (less than 100 nm), which is comparable to that of the Covid-19 virus, and a plethora of functionalities such as targeting and drug delivery that can be tailored,” said professor Ashutosh Sharma, Secretary, DST.The startup has received funding of Rs50 lakh from DST for various projects undertaken by them till date. The startup was established three years ago.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/silver-nanoparticles-infused-sanitizer-on-the-anvil/articleshow/75089018.cms||---
April 11, 2020||Delhi||Two criminals arrested after shootout with cops in outer Delhi||NEW DELHI: Even with the lockdown in place, police managed to nab two criminals after a brief shootout in outer Delhi on Thursday night.  The two men had allegedly struck at several places around Mayur Vihar last month and robbed several people at gunpoint. When they were intercepted near Kanjhawala last night, the men opened fire at the cops. The policemen retaliated, hitting one of them on his ankle. According to police, the accused have been identified as Pankaj Dabas (25) and Ajeet (30). While Dabas hails from outer Delhi’s Narela, Ajeet belongs to Jhajjar in Haryana. Police received information on Thursday that the two accused were spotted in Gautam Colony in Narela. A team of police officers reached the location and laid a trap. When asked to surrender, the two men allegedly opened fire at the cops. Two of the rounds fired hit the bulletproof jackets of two cops. Ajeet was hit in the ankle by a bullet in retaliatory fire before the two were overpowered. Police also seized four pistols from them. “Ajeet has eight cases registered against him, including murder, attempt to murder, arms act and robbery while Dabas has three cases against him. The duo would rob people at gun point. With their arrest, a dozen cases have been solved,” said a police officer.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/2-criminals-arrested-after-shootout-with-cops-in-outer-delhi/articleshow/75089017.cms||---
April 11, 2020||Jaipur||Congress, BJP workers clash in Jaipur on distribution of ration, two injured||JAIPUR: Ugly scenes were witnessed at Shipra Path locality here on Friday when Congress and BJP workers clashed over distribution of ration and grocery by the civil defence team. Two persons of both the groups were injured in the clash with both parties accusing each other of selective distribution and interference in civil defence work. This is the second incident in the city when interference of political parties became a deterrent in the distribution of ration. According to police, a group led by opposition BJP alleged that the civil defence team on the directions of Congress workers was selectively distributing grocery and ration items. “This triggered a violent confrontation in which two persons sustained injuries including one who had to be administered stitches,” said a senior officer of Shipra Path police station. Soon after the confrontation, the two groups gathered at Shipra Path police station and accused each other of disturbing the work of distribution of ration in the area. “They were ignoring many people and were only distributing items to their voters,” alleged a BJP worker. Some of the workers even called up the local BJP MLA Ashok Lahoty who rushed to the police station. “Initially, they had lodged complaints against each other, but withdrew it later. We have requested them to maintain law and order and not to play the role of a deterrent in distribution of grocery and ration to the public by the civil defence and police administration,” said SP (South) Yogesh Dadhich. Both the workers left without lodging any case and promised to cooperate with the administration in the distribution work. It may be recalled that on Thursday at least 300 people had gathered and created ruckus while members of the Congress was distributing ration at Namak Ki Mandi area in the Walled City. “We will ensure that no political leader should come out for distribution of ration in the curfew affected areas. Civil defence and police along with the teams of district administration are doing the task,” said police commissioner Anand Srivastav.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/cong-bjp-workers-clash-on-distribution-of-ration-two-injured/articleshow/75089032.cms||---
April 11, 2020||Pune||Police start disinfecting vehicles||Pune: The police started sanitizing 300 vehicles in their fleet on Friday in view of the spurt in Covid-19 cases. The car of Pune police commissioner K Venkatesham was first sanitized at his office. The police has tied up with M/s B U Bhandari Group, an automobile dealer, for sanitizing vehicles belonging to police stations, crime branch, special branch and other departments. Motor Transport officer Tarshu Bawaskar said, “The group has imported chemicals for cleaning AC veins, fibre doors, upholstery for getting the vehicle disinfected.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/police-start-disinfecting-vehicles/articleshow/75089022.cms||---
April 11, 2020||Thiruvananthapuram||Tests on high-risk contacts intensified||Thiruvananthapuram: The latest patient, who was tested positive for Covid-19 in the district on Thursday, continues to be asymptomatic, puzzling the health authorities. The 80-year-old patient, who is the mother of patient ‘R 15’ who returned from Dubai, is expected to have contracted the disease during her son’s home quarantine period between March 21 and 31. With the reporting of asymptomatic case, the district administration is strengthening its surveillance measures among high-risk contacts of Covid-19 positive persons in the district. Intensive surveillance has begun on all cases of patients who returned from Dubai and their high-risk contacts, irrespective of whether they are symptomatic or not. This will include their family members and co-travellers in the flight. Sentinel surveillance, which involves collection of data from a limited network of carefully selected reporting sites, will begin within two days after the district administration completes collection of all data in connection with Dubai returnees. As part of intensifying the surveillance, the district administration and health department will segregate areas where Dubai-returned positive patients are residing as containment zone and buffer zone. The 3km area around the initial cluster of cases will be the buffer zone, where the health department will carry out intense testing of all high-risk contacts. Though the mother of patient R 15 was tested positive, the other close family members, including his wife and children, who were shifted to the IMG Hostel, have tested negative for Covid-19. Incidentally, the infection to the primary contact could have been avoided if the R 15’s test was done when he developed mild cough and rhinitis on March 28. Though he contacted ‘Disha and reached General Hospital in an ambulance the same day, he was sent back on home quarantine as his symptoms were mild. His swab sample was taken on March 31 as symptoms persisted and was tested positive on April 2. Interestingly, this is not the first asymptomatic case handled by the district health officials. The Italian tourists, who were staying at Varkala, had developed mild symptoms only on the 17th day, said health officials. Though district administration received alerts from Malappuram and Kollam about persons who attended Tablighi Jamaat meeting, it had already identified and tested 11 persons, whose results were negative. Meanwhile, no positive case was reported in the district on Friday. Results of around 136 samples tested were negative. Of the five active cases, three, including the 80-year-old woman, are under treatment at Medical College. Two children are under treatment at SAT. Around 73 new suspected cases were quarantined on Friday while 775 persons completed their 28-day quarantine period. On Friday, 27 persons were admitted to hospitals with various symptoms.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/thiruvananthapuram/tests-on-high-risk-contacts-intensified/articleshow/75087724.cms||Jisha Surya
April 11, 2020||Pune||Rs 1 crore insurance cover for frontline civic staffers||Pune: The civic body will provide special financial assistance to the civic staff, who are on the frontlines of the fight against the novel coronavirus. If any official or worker dies due to the infection, the Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) will give their family Rs1 crore, with the option of giving a family member a job on humanitarian grounds. According to the PMC data, over 10,000 civic staff from Class I to IV are involved in the fight. Members of the health department, solid waste department, anti-encroachment department and fire brigade as well as members from the head office and ward officers are in the forefront to contain the spread of the virus. Other departments, which are also operating as emergency services include the water and electricial departments. “This is a kind of security for those who are working in tough conditions for the larger public interest. They are putting their lives in danger. The scheme is a token of appreciation for their efforts and dedication in the fight against the coronavirus,” the mayor Murulidhar Mohol said. According to the scheme, if a family member of the deceased opts for a civic job, the family will get Rs75 lakh as compensation. In case, the family does not seek a job in the PMC, they will get Rs1 crore. The scheme has come into effect immediately, a civic official said. PCMC to offer Rs 50L cover to employees  The Pimpri Chinchwad Municipal Corporation (PCMC) will provide ‘suraksha kavach’ of Rs 50 lakh or Rs 25 lakh and a job to a family member of civic and contractual employees if they die while working to prevent Covid-19 spread, mayor Usha Dhore said on Friday.Namdev Dhake, the ruling party leader, said, “Civic employees in medical and health departments are taking care of Covid-19 patients as well as people showing symptoms. Field surveillance teams, comprising civic employees, are conducting daily home surveys.”He said the Union government provides Rs 50 lakh insurance cover to heirs of such victims. PCMC will provide another Rs 50 lakh to the heirs. Another option is to give Rs 25 lakh and a job to one of the heirs. The family of the staffer concerned have to choose any of the two options. The proposal, however, needs approval of the civic general body and state government.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/rs-1-crore-insurance-cover-for-frontline-civic-staffers/articleshow/75089028.cms||---
April 11, 2020||Vadodara||Gathering for namaz, 9 held from mosque||Vadodara: The police on Friday arrested nine men who had gathered to offer namaz at a mosque in the old city area. The detection of crime branch (DCB) sleuths reached the mosque in Panigate after receiving information that some persons had gathered there. “During lockdown, there is ban on gathering of people at any spot. So all the nine men who had gathered at the mosque have been arrested,” said Jaydeepsinh Jadeja, DCP (crime). They all are residents of Bhadra Kacheri Road and Mogulwada in the old city. This is the second incident within three days when namazis have been arrested by the cops. The cops have begun flying drones in the old city areas to track down locals who gather in groups.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/gathering-for-namaz-9-held-from-mosque/articleshow/75089036.cms||---
April 11, 2020||Hyderabad||22-year-old offers virtual skill training to thousands amid Covid-19 lockdown||HYDERABAD: The coronavirus outbreak, that has forced the country to stay indoors, has given some citizens with the opportunity to give back to society. Saksham Garg, a 22-year-old student-cum-entrepreneur, is reaching out to thousands of students and professionals through his start-up Work Minar Pvt Ltd. Garg has turned skill-workshops for students into free webinars for those who are keen on learning newer skills at home. “Many people approached us to conduct seminars on different subjects. That’s when we decided to hold them online so that we can reach out to students at large who are keen to learn these skill-sets during the lockdown period considering every college has declared holiday,” said Garg. Since April 1, the start-up has conducted six webinars on digital marketing, 3D printing and Python among others. Each webinars draws over 500 participants. “I joined a webinar on Robotics where the expert covered fundamentals and scope of the technology. It was veery easy for me to join the webinar from my house,” said Ashutosh Katkam, a BTech student. The start-up has scheduled its next webinar on data story telling on April 12 that will be held by Vijay Pravin Maharajan, TedX speaker, 40 under 40 top data scientist awardee .  “We will soon be launching full-fledged courses on different subjects,” said Garg.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/22-year-old-offers-virtual-skill-training-to-thousands-amid-covid-19-lockdown/articleshow/75089035.cms||Preeti Biswas
April 11, 2020||Patna||Coronavirus: 2 more test positive, tally rises to 60 in Bihar||PATNA: Two more persons from Siwan tested positive on Friday, taking the total number of coronavirus cases in the state to 60. Both the persons — a 10-year-old girl and a 28-year-old man — contracted the virus from the same Siwan man, who was tested positive on his return from Oman. Siwan district has the maximum 29 positive cases so far, including 22 from the same family. When asked whether Bihar has entered the 3rd stage, also known as community transmission stage of Covid-19, especially after the surge in number of cases in Siwan and cases with no travel history in Begusarai, state health department additional secretary Kaushal Kishor said, “As of now, there is no signal of community transmission.” State nodal officer for Covid-19, Dr Ragini Mishra said all those tested positive in a village under Raghunathpur block in Siwan are relatives or neighbours of the Oman-returned person. The man tested positive on March 31, along with three others of his district with travel history from the Middle-East. Before him, a Siwan native with travel history from Dubai had tested positive on March 27. On April 3, another 30-year-old Siwan native with travel history from Bahrain had tested positive for the virus. However, on April 7, four of his close family members tested positive for Covid-19, which included his mother, wife and two first cousins. This chain kept on increasing and 16 other relatives tested positive on April 9. The same day, another 30-year-old from Siwan, who had returned from Dubai on March 18, tested positive. Earlier, a 38-year-old Munger native with travel history from Qatar had infected 13 people. This person who is tentatively considered as ‘patient zero’ in Bihar, died on March 21 before his test report came positive the next day. Those who tested positive after coming in his contact, included his three relatives, eight employees of two private hospitals and two family members of one of the hospital employees.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/2-more-test-ve-tally-rises-to-60-in-state/articleshow/75087732.cms||---
April 11, 2020||Goa||Goa: Power department on toes as gusty winds knock out supply||PANAJI: The very first unseasonal rains with gusty winds caused disruption in power supply in many parts in the state. Some areas like Azossim in Tiswadi went without power for more than five hours. A number of branches and trees fell on power lines resulting in interruptions in power supply. Power supply could be restored in many parts only after the fire and emergency staff attended to the tree falling calls. Valpoi was worst hit after gusty winds brought down several trees, disrupting power supply and vehicular movement. Some places were more affected than others. Eastern Bardez, Sattari, Bicholim as well as parts of Ponda and Dharbandora where winds were heavy were badly affected. Socorro didn’t have power supply for than three hours as the electricity feeder failed. In some areas like Pomburpa, line staff worked until late on Friday night to locate the fault. Azossim and Ribandar also went for long hours without power supply. In Ribandar, line staff waited for assistance from fire and emergency services to remove a tree that fell on an electricity pole. Fire and emergency staff were busy attending to multiple calls in the vicinity. This is despite the electricity department undertaking the trimming of branches and trees in Ribandar in December and January. Chief electrical engineer Raghuvir Keni attributed the power outages to the uprooting of several trees and branches as a result of strong winds. “In most places, trees falling on lines have been cleared. There has been no major damage. There was a very good response from the department staff. They have been maintaining the essential service and rose to the occasion while maintaining social distancing,” said Keni, who is also the nodal officer for electricty department under State Disaster Management authority. Multiple nodal officers have been appointed for every taluka to ensure power supply is uninterrupted during the lockdown, he said, adding that officers have also been put on duty to monitor the calls received on the 1912 helpline where each complaint is being monitored. Keni also said pre-monsoon maintenance works are ongoing where the department is trying to minimise the number of planned shutdowns for maintenance so as to not inconvenience people during the lockdown.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/power-dept-on-toes-as-gusty-winds-knock-out-supply/articleshow/75089031.cms||---
April 11, 2020||Vadodara||City divided into 4 zones based on vulnerability||Vadodara: With Covid-19 cases being reported from different areas, the city will now be divided into four zones based on their vulnerability. Different strategies have been drawn to address the situation in each of these zones. The Vadodara Municipal Corporation (VMC) and city police had already declared Nagarwada where several cases were reported and parts of Tandalja where a homeopath from Nagarwada who tested positive as red zones. The administration and police have now identified nine areas as orange zones and 10 areas as yellow zones. The orange zone areas include those areas that are more susceptible to a Covid-19 outbreak. These include Mughalwada in Wadi and Bahar Colony on Ajwa Road where one case each has been reported as well as seven other localities. These localities are those that are in close vicinity of the two red zones or Mughalwada and Bahar Colony. Senior IAS officer Vinod Rao, who has been deputed to Vadodara for Covid-19, said that the third zone will be a yellow zone where 10 areas have been included. “These areas are slums or other similar congested areas where social distancing is not possible. They need to be protected and given special attention,” Rao said. While the red zones have been sealed, the movement of people in orange zones will be limited within the zone. The people in orange zone areas can buy essential commodities from within the zone only and not venture out. In yellow zones, entry of people from outside will be stopped. Residents here will be able to go out to purchase essential commodities. “This has been done to ensure that nobody from outside brings the infection in these yellow zones and put the population at high risk,” Rao said. Daily health surveillance of persons will be conducted in both the yellow and orange zones. Rao said that all other areas in the city will be declared as green zones. “People here should maintain self-screening and report to their physician or nearest health centre in case of any respiratory ailments,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/city-divided-into-4-zones-based-on-vulnerability/articleshow/75089047.cms||---
April 11, 2020||Thiruvananthapuram||Don’t forget to exercise while staying indoors: Dr Jothydev||Thiruvananthapuram: People with diabetes are not more prone to get infected with Covid-19. But, if affected with the disease, they tend to be hit more severely, said doctor Jothydev Kesavadev. “Research has proved that Covid-19 attack can be severe in diabetes patients. So,they need to keep their blood sugar levels under control,” Dr Jothydev said while attending the FB live programme of The Times of India here on Friday. Jothydev said that even while locked in houses, diabetes patients should exercise for at least 30 minutes daily. “Medicines can only do 20% of treatment. The rest is achieved with proper diet, exercise, rest and relaxation,” he said. He interacted with TOI readers who posted questions on Covid-19 and coping with lifestyle diseases. To a query on what kind of diet one needs to follow during phases like lockdown, Dr Jothydev said, “When you are staying indoors and your physical activity is less, you need lesser carbohydrates and proteins. So, plan your diet accordingly. But, take fruits and vegetables that contain Vitamin C”. To those suffering from hypertension, the advice was to maintain normal blood pressure by taking regular medicine and ensuring proper sleep and relaxation.  FB live series will continue on Saturday and Sunday. On Saturday, at 3pm social security mission executive director Dr Mohammed Asheel will join the live on The Times of India-Kerala FB page and answer readers’ queries. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/thiruvananthapuram/dont-forget-to-exercise-while-staying-indoors-dr-jothydev/articleshow/75087749.cms||---
April 11, 2020||Mangaluru||Covid-19 may be a blessing in disguise for flora & fauna in Western Ghats||Mangaluru: Although the coronavirus pandemic has seen much of the world grind to a halt, several environmentalists, forest officials and nature enthusiasts see an unexpected silver lining to it. While, reduced human activity on account of lockdown has helped animals move freely in Western Ghats, it also has indirectly reduced the instances of forest fire, they claim. The scorching summer heat usually comes with a scourge of forest fire. However, this time around, even as the mercury levels in Western Ghat touched 40° C, no major instances of fire were reported in forest areas of Dakshina Kannada district. Officials and greens attribute it to reduced human activities in Western Ghats due to Covid-19 lockdown. Speaking to TOI, deputy conservator of forest V Karikalan said: “Usually, forest fire instances are reported in March and April. However, this year, we have not received reports of forest fire in our division. It may be because of the lockdown. There is no vehicle movement and pilgrims are also not able to visit prominent temples in the Western Ghats regions of Dakshina Kannada. Most of the forest fire instances are caused by travellers who carelessly throw away lighted cigarettes,” he said. “Covid-19 lockdown has come as a blessing in disguise for flora and fauna in the Western Ghats,” he added. Forest officials have been witnessing movement of animals especially, deer and elephants on the roads abutting Western Ghats, he said. “Our officials have noticed large number of deer, elephants, bison and other wild animals walking on roads at Subrahmanya and surrounding areas. Normally, don not venture out much as vehicles ply on the roads regularly. But, now they have the freedom,” he added. Environmentalists say it is indeed a blessing in disguise that the region has not witnessed any major forest fire instances after the lockdown. Sahyadri Sanchaya convener Dinesh Holla said a significant reason for forest fire is increased human activities inside the Western Ghats region. “We have been witnessing forest fire all these years. In fact last year, forest fires were reported at Malemanebetta, Dodderibetta, Baloorugudda and several other places in Charmady and Shirady areas. However, this year there were no such instances making it evident that human activities inside the forest is the major reason for all forest fire instances. Now, no one goes for hunting, trekking and for other activities there,” Holla said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mangaluru/covid-19-may-be-a-blessing-in-disguise-for-flora-fauna-in-western-ghats/articleshow/75086863.cms||---
April 11, 2020||Patna||Coronavirus outbreak: How a sleepy Siwan village became 'Wuhan of Bihar'||PATNA: The entrance to the village is blocked with a makeshift gate made of sturdy bamboo poles and a notice in Hindi pasted on it reads, ‘Doosre gaon ke logon ka andar ana sampurna varjit hai (Entry of outsiders prohibited)’. A drone occasionally hovers overhead to ensure complete lockdown of Panjwar, the village in Siwan, which is being called as ‘Wuhan of Bihar’ for recording 23 of the 60 coronavirus cases in the state. Till about a month ago, this nondescript village was just another hamlet in Siwan district. But now it has the attention of the entire state and is now on the Covid map of the country as well, because of a man in his late 20s, who arrived from Oman on March 22 and tested positive more than a week later. This sleepy village under Raghunathpur block has now 23 corona positive cases, including the primary carrier, all of whom are either related to him or are neighbours. Madan Singh, a 34-year-old resident of the village, recounted the horror tale of this asymptomatic youth, who is now quarantined at a facility in Siwan. “He used to mingle with people as usual. He even used to play cricket with local youths. Nobody was scared of him as nothing was found unusual. He was asymptomatic so nobody suspected anything was wrong with him,” said Madan, who is well acquainted with the Covid-19 infected family. He was shifted to a Siwan hotel, which has been turned into a quarantine centre, with other suspects only when the test report confirmed him positive for Covid 19 on April 3. Madan, who works in a private firm in Siwan, claimed that the youth may have infected at least 100 people from this village and neighouring areas. “He used to visit the local market for shopping after his return from Oman. How many people have come into his contact is subject to investigation,” the local resident told TOI over phone. According to his family members, the youth landed in Delhi from Oman on March 21 and reached home on March 22 via Patna. The matter came to light when the first positive case was reported from a village under Nautan block of the district on March 27. The authorities ordered re-examination of those who had returned from abroad. And the name of Panjwar resident figured in the list. Even then he tried to evade medical examination. “When a medical team visited the village to collect samples for test, the youth confined himself in his ‘dalan’ and told the team that he was ‘under home quarantine’ and not staying with the family members,” another resident Rakesh Kumar (28) said. However, his blood sample was collected on April 1 and the test report confirmed him positive for Covid 19. “He stayed with the family members from March 22 to April 1 and thus infected altogether 23 members of his family and close relatives. While the test reports of 23 have been found positive, the reports of the remaining people were awaited,” said a senior government officer posted in Siwan. Medical officer of Raghunathpur block said the man was asymptomatic and all those who got the virus from him have also been asymptomatic. He admitted that the Oman-returned man didn’t follow the home quarantine norms and the result is for all to see. Residents of the village have been asked to remain indoors. The entry and exit points already been sealed and surveillance on the movement of the inhabitants intensified. Drones are being used to keep surveillance on the inhabitants. In addition, personnel of Bihar Military Police and the district armed police force have been deployed in every corner of the village. Village chaukidars and Asha workers have been directed to report to senior officials if they found anybody flouting the lockdown. The state government on Thursday directed the Saran divisional commissioner and DIG to camp at the village, indicating how grim the situation is. DIG, Saran range, Vijay Kumar Verma hurriedly called a meeting with Siwan SP Abhinav Kumar to seal Panjwar village and its adjoining areas. Siwan DM Amit Pandey said instructions have been issued to sanitize all houses in the radius of 300 metres of the Covid 19 victim’s house. Altogether six containment zones have been earmarked. Samples of 96 people have been sent to Patna for test and reports are awaited.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/how-a-sleepy-siwan-village-became-wuhan-of-bihar/articleshow/75087748.cms||Ramashankar
April 11, 2020||Trichy||Farmer, 63, hacked to death in Thanjavur||Trichy: A 63-year-old farmer was hacked to death in his farm in Sankaranar Kudikadu village in Thanjavur district on Friday morning. The deceased, identified as Thirumeni, had gone to his farm in the wee hours of Friday to operate a submersible motor pump to irrigate his land. As he didn’t return home after many hours, some of his relatives went to farmland and found him lying dead in a pool of blood. Papanadu police on being alerted reached the spot and sent the body to Thanjavur government hospital for post mortem. Police said that there were deep wounds all over Thirumeni’s body. His right hand was badly damaged and his face was disfigured. Police said that the farmers in the area often quarrelled over running their motors to irrigate their land. The voltage received was very low and there was only enough power for one person to run the motor at a time. This often lead to feuds and hostility between the farmers which the police suspect could be the reason behind the murder. Further investigation is on. TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/farmer-63-hacked-to-death-in-thanjavur/articleshow/75089039.cms||---
April 11, 2020||Hubballi||Hubballi: First positive case sends everyone inside||HUBBALLI: It took Hubballi to report its first positive case on Thursday, to send all those violating lockdown orders scurrying inside. Areas neighbouring Kamaripet where the youth stayed, wore a deserted look on Friday morning. "Though most people stayed indoors, there were a few who were seen loitering around. Until now, people were indifferent and had not really understood the seriousness of the lockdown. Thursday's positive case has made them fearful," said a cop attached to Sub Urban police station. The administration has also banned distribution of ration or food packets in the containment area. Sodium hypochlorite solution was sprayed in the areas.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hubballi/first-positive-case-sends-everyone-inside/articleshow/75087745.cms||---
April 11, 2020||Rajkot||Gujarat: Lockdown-hit man loses temper, kills wife and self||RAJKOT: Frayed tempers are the worst nightmare stressing many a household across the globe leading to severe instances of domestic violence. A similar breakdown resulted in the murder-suicide of a 60-year-old man who allegedly strangled his wife before committing suicide in Jamnagar city on Thursday night. Police said the accused, Mohan Rathod (60), allegedly strangled his wife Rami (57), using a rope at his residence in Hanuman Tekari area of Jamnagar. After this, he went into another room and ended his life by hanging himself to death from the ceiling fan. Before committing suicide, Rathod wrote on the wall that he had taken both the drastic steps. Rathod was booked on the complaint by his elder son Hasmukh (27), who said that he had gone to stay with his sister after his father thrashed him on Wednesday. Upon his return on Friday morning, he found the door of the house locked from inside. Rathod was responsible for his son’s divorceHe gained access into the house by jumping from the gallery of an adjoining house and found his father hanging in his room, while in the other room his mother was lying dead. Rathod was engaged in labour work at construction sites. “In his complaint, Hasmukh said that his father was extremely ill-tempered, who frequently picked up quarrels with his family members. Unable to tolerate the father-in-law’s nature, even Hasmukh’s wife had divorced him. The man would often beat his wife Rami, Hasmukh and his younger son Ramesh (22),” said MJ Jalu, inspector, Jamnagar police. “The lockdown had only aggravated Rathod's agitated mental state, alleged Hasmukh in his complaint. Hasmukh said that Rathod must have murdered his wife in a fit of rage and then committed suicide out of guilt,” added Jalu.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/lockdown-hit-man-loses-temper-kills-wife-self/articleshow/75088518.cms||---
April 11, 2020||Vadodara||Policemen attacked for barricading road||Vadodara: Panigate area of the city witnessed some tense moments on Friday after some mischief mongers resorted to stone pelting on cops late in the evening. No one, however, was injured in the incident. The police said that the locals were upset over blocking the entry to Kahar Mohalla in the minority community dominated area. The incident occurred at about 8.30 pm when the cops were putting up iron sheets for blocking entry and exit to Kahar Mohalla. "A group of locals came out and argued with the cops over the blockage that was being done to ensure that locals don't flout lockdown order. Some of them started pelting stones at the cops before fleeing the spot. It was a minor scuffle,” a police official said. The police said that it hasn’t filed an FIR in the case but has intensified patrolling in the area to avoid any further tension.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/policemen-attacked-for-barricading-road/articleshow/75089060.cms||---
April 11, 2020||Trichy||NCC cadets find people freely violating curfew||Trichy: Spreading awareness on social distancing over the last one week, NCC volunteers from the city colleges find that a majority of the people are yet to understand the significance of staying home during lockdown. About 60 NCC cadets from various city colleges and 20 ex-cadets are assisting police in maintaining social distancing in vegetable markets and verifying motorists on the purpose of their travel within the city. Senior division NCC cadets from colleges are volunteering for the programme from Monday as part of ‘Exercise NCC Yogdan’ programme mooted by director general (DG) NCC, New Delhi. J Naveen Kumar from Bishop Heber College, who was part of the crowd controlling activities, said that he could come across repeated offenders who were found unnecessarily roaming on streets in their vehicle. “People without facemasks could be seen sitting while sitting close to each other. Some shops operating even after 1 pm has been another issue for people venturing out of their homes,” he said. G Manickavel, another cadet from National College Trichy said that people tend to forget keeping distance while making purchases in the vegetable market. “Some were seen wearing mask for name sake, on their forehead or neck, without covering their nose and mouth. We remind such people on doing the right thing,” he said. Since parent’s consent is important, many cadets could not make it despite being interested in volunteering, said lieutenant colonel Sunil S Pillai, officer commanding, 2 TN NCC battalion. “Unlike flood or other natural calamities, we are fighting invisible enemy and we understand the apprehensions of parents. We need to take adequate steps to ensure safety of cadets. They are placed close to their homes and kept away from hot spots which rules out potential danger to them,” Pillai said. They were volunteering in two shifts starting from 9 am till 6 pm. But they are now engaged only till 1 pm as shops are closed after 1 pm, he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/ncc-cadets-find-people-freely-violating-curfew/articleshow/75089058.cms||Sampath Kumar
April 11, 2020||Trichy||ATM on wheels in Pudukottai||Pudukottai: Pudukottai district administration started a mobile ATM service on Friday to prevent residents from venturing out of their homes and queuing up outside ATM centres. The mobile ATM van, operated by Indian Overseas Bank, was inaugurated by district collector P Uma Maheswari said that people were found to be going out of homes frequently primarily for vegetable needs and groceries. “As the district administration has made arrangements for home delivery of essentials, people are going out to withdraw cash. There have been a few instances when people were found making queues to take cash outside ATM centres. To address this issue, a mobile ATM centre has been introduced for the Pudukottai town,” she said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/atm-on-wheels-in-pudukottai/articleshow/75089054.cms||---
April 11, 2020||Thiruvananthapuram||Accident claims a life at Thiruvallom||Thiruvananthapuram: The national highway stretch at Thiruvallom, which was widened recently, has been witnessing repeated accidents. But, authorities have been ignoring the warnings. On Friday, a 61-year-old man, who was active in Covid-19 related relief works, was knocked down by a speeding van at the junction. N Mohanan, Santhipuram branch secretary of CPM, died on the way to the hospital. Mohanan was riding his scooter from Pachalloor side around 4.30am. As his scooter entered the NH stretch at Thiruvallam, he was hit by the van coming from Kollam towards Nagarcoil to bring vegetables. Mohanan, who was bitten by a dog last week, was going to the General Hospital for a second round of injection against rabies. His son Mahesh Mohan said that his father went early morning so that his regular works involving distribution of relief kits to poor people in the area won’t get affected. “He did not want to disturb others and so went early, with a plan to come back and join the distribution works. He was active with the works and only a few houses remained to be covered,” said Mahesh. The stretch has become an accident blackspot ever since National Highway Authority of India (NHAI) widened it. NHAI has designed the stretch in such a way that vehicles from Pachalloor side would take a U-turn to new Thiruvallam bridge-Kumarichanta route to reach Ambalathara. In order to avoid the long route, most vehicles, even those coming from Kovalam side, were taking the wrong side via the old Thiruvallam bridge to access Ambalathara route, which is an easy connectivity to East Fort. Though several accidents were reported in the area, neither the traffic police nor NHAI has taken any concrete action to solve the issue. Thiruvallam police said that the vehicles which came from Kollam won’t have a clue about the vehicles coming from opposite direction. “The van was moving at a high speed as it was early morning and there were no vehicles on the road. Only residents knew about the plying of vehicles from the other direction. The van hit the scooter immediately when it entered the national highway. The victim died on way to the hospital,” said Thiruvallam police.  When contacted, officials of NHAI said that they would submit a report soon to the headquarters to take necessary measures to solve the issue. NHAI has been planning construction of a service bridge parallel to the bridges here for the transportation of local vehicles. Based on the request of traffic police, Natpac had studied the issues in the area and submitted a report suggesting a flyover across the national highway stretch to facilitate movement of vehicles to Ambalathara. Mohanan’s cremation was held at Santhikavadam after post-mortem. He leaves behind wife Mahewari, son Mahesh Mohan and daughter Midhila Mohan.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/thiruvananthapuram/accident-claims-a-life-at-thiruvallom/articleshow/75087760.cms||---
April 11, 2020||Visakhapatnam||Coastal Andhra Pradesh likely to get rainfall for next three days||VISAKHAPATNAM: Many parts of the state is likely to receive rainfall or thunderstorms associated with gusty winds for the next three days, said a statement issued by the Amaravati Centre of the India Meteorological Department (IMD). According to the weather bulletin issued by IMD Amaravati on Friday, light to moderate rains or thunderstorms with hail, lightning and gusty winds are likely to occur along coastal Andhra Pradesh and Rayalaseema districts for next three days. The rains will be the result of an upper air circulation system over the state along the Bay of Bengal and pre-monsoon weather conditions. Weather officials further said that conditions necessary for rain formed on Thursday and on Friday many north coastal Andhra Pradesh areas received moderate rainfall. Araku received 30mm of rainfall on Friday till evening. In the last 24 hours, till 8:30 am on Friday, nearly 770 areas across 13 districts received light to very heavy rains. Naidupeta in Nellore district registered the state’s highest rainfall of 103mm in a single day. Meanwhile, medical staff involved in handling Covid-19 cases as well police personnel maintaining law and order are hopeful that the rains will bring them respite from the soaring temperatures. The downpour may also aid in keeping denizens indoors. India Meteorological Department’s Amaravati Centre director S Stella said, “There will be rainfall over isolated places across the state for the next three days. This is likely to bring down the temperatures by a couple of degrees much to the respite of denizens.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/visakhapatnam/coastal-ap-likely-to-get-rainfall-for-next-three-days/articleshow/75087773.cms||V Kamalakara Rao
April 11, 2020||Trichy||Limit your movement within 2 km from house, say cops||Trichy: The district collector S Sivarasu issued an order restricting the movement of the people within two kilometre radius of their house and banning to operate four wheelers except for medical emergencies in the city on Friday. He issued this order as part of tightening the lockdown being followed to prevent the spread of Covid-19. The direction from the collector came a couple of days after commissioner of police, Trichy, V Varadharaju instructed the police team to control the people within one kilometre radius of their residences to buy essentials. In an order passed by the collector on Friday evening, he said that the police department apprised him of the situation of people unnecessarily gathering in public places in the name of buying essentials. Taking into consideration the issue, the collector ordered to contain the people within two kilometre radius from their houses in the city limits. People should make it a point that they buy vegetables, fruits, groceries, meat and other essentials in the shops that are located within the two kilometre radius. No one except for medical emergencies and official purpose is permitted to travel beyond two kilometres. This order also banned the movement of four wheelers in city limit unless they are used for medical emergencies and official use.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/limit-your-movement-within-2-km-from-house-say-cops/articleshow/75089063.cms||---
April 11, 2020||Aurangabad||Solapur cops suspended for partying with friends in police car||KOLHAPUR: A Solapur police constable has been suspended for allegedly consuming alcohol on duty and moving around the city within his friends in an official police vehicle during the lockdown. One of his friends live-streamed the group drinking beer and eating biriyani in the vehicle on Facebook. Solapur police commissioner Ankush Shinde has suspended constable Suryakant Dantkale, attached with Jail Road police station, after completing the preliminary inquiry. The incident took place on Monday. Dantkale’s friends have been identified as Ketan Shrikant Kasbe, Rahul Genba Shinde and Sumedh Ashok Waghmare. Kasbe, the one to live stream the event, was brought to the police station. Offences have been registered against the four under sections 188 (disobedience of the order duly promulgated by the public servant), 269 (negligent act likely to spread infection of disease dangerous to life) and 336 (rash and negligent behaviour endangering human life or personal safety) of the IPC. An inquiry has revealed that the group had managed to procure beer from a nearby village while the biriyani was ordered as home delivery. Police are also trying to find the person who made the beer available.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/solapur-cops-suspended-for-partying-with-friends-in-police-car/articleshow/75089087.cms||---
April 11, 2020||Hyderabad||Civic chief criticises Andhra Pradesh government over Covid-19 crisis, suspended||TIRUPATI: The state government on Friday suspended Nagari municipal commissioner K Venkatarami Reddy after he allegedly criticised the administration in a video message that went viral on social media. This is the second instance of an official being suspended for accusing the government of inaction over Covid-19 crisis in the last three days. The government has charged the municipal commissioner with passing unlawful comments during the Covid-19 crisis, and issued orders suspending him under sub-rule (1) of Rule 8 of the Andhra Pradesh Civil Services (APCS) Rules, 1991. In a video that was circulated on Thursday, the municipal commissioner was heard saying that the state government did not provide funds or protective equipment to municipal staff in Nagari town to deal with the Covid-19 crisis. “The municipality did not receive any funds from the government to deal with Covid-19 crisis despite the vulnerable situation prevailing in Nagari with four people testing positive,” the commissioner alleged. “Nagari municipality did not receive proper support from the state government. We did not get any protective equipment for the emergency services staff, who are on the streets to tackle the situation. All our accounts are frozen and we have not got any financial aid from the government,” the commissioner said in the video. In the same video, he also praised YSRC legislator RK Roja for going out of the way to extend support to tackle the crisis in Nagari, which is her assembly constituency. AP government had on Wednesday suspended a doctor in Visakhapatnam district after his video message criticising the government over Covid-19 went viral||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/civic-chief-criticises-ap-govt-over-covid-19-crisis-suspended/articleshow/75089093.cms||Sandeep Raghavan
April 11, 2020||Kanpur||Count of Covid-19 suspects rises, 61 more quarantined||KANPUR: The number of Covid-19 suspects almost doubled as the health department quarantined as many as 61 suspects on Friday. So far, 4,791 persons, who either came to the city from outside or had travelled abroad, have been quarantined. As no fresh corona positive case was reported on Friday in the city, the number of positive cases remained stagnant at 11. One person had already been discharged after treatment. According to the health bulletin, 19 persons, who had been quarantined were found negative, and with them 507 persons have recovered so far. District magistrate Brahmadeo Ram Tiwari and DIG/SSP Anant Deo on Friday visited the hotpot areas under Chamanganj, Beconganj, Colonelganj and Bajaria police stations and supervised the lockdown through drone camera. In a direct dialogue with residents of Yateemkhana area, the officials asked them about their problems. They told the DM that they were getting all required items. The DM assured them that all essential commodities would be provided to them through door-to-door delivery system. He also asked them to maintain social distancing because prevention is the only way of protecting people from the deadly virus. The officials during the inspection distributed around 250 hampers consisting of raw edibles to the needy persons. They asked the police to use IIT glider drone for aerial inspection in all the hotspot areas. Earlier, the two officers visited Ghatampur town and Baripal village under Sajeti police station and supervised the aerial inspection of rooftops through drone. They assured the locals that the district administration would provide them all essential commodities at their door steps. Divisional commissioner Sudhir M Bobde and IG police Mohit Agarwal also inspected Yateemkhana, Quli Bazar, Anwarganj, Halsey Road, Beconganj and Dada Miyan areas and inquired about problems from the locals. Meanwhile, the teachers and staff of Brahmanand College on Friday donated Rs 5.31 lakh in the chief minister’s relief fund. Kanpur Municipal Corporation continued its sanitization drive at several places of the city. Around 60 persons sought medical advice from its tele-medicine facility.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kanpur/count-of-covid-19-suspects-rises-61-more-quarantined/articleshow/75089128.cms||---
April 11, 2020||Mangaluru||Go to doc in Kasaragod before rushing to M’luru, says expert||Mangaluru: The Dakshina Kannada district administration’s decision to seal its border at Talapady, in an attempt to control the spread of Covid-19, has created an unpleasant atmosphere between Kerala and Karnataka. Since a majority of the patients from Kasaragod in Kerala depend on Mangaluru for their medical needs, the issue soon reached the Supreme Court. The Dakshina Kannada district administration was forced to open its borders for non-Covid-19 emergency cases only, and designated Justice KS Hegde Charitable Hospital, Deralakatte, to treat emergency patients from Kerala. However, the hospital is facing certain challenges in dealing with the situation. Vishal Hegde, pro-chancellor, Nitte (deemed to be university) said, “The district administration requested us to volunteer our services to treat non-Covid-19 patients from Kerala. Our team of doctors was more than willing to do so, and agreed to take up the responsibility of all non-Covid-19 emergencies from Kasaragod district. These patients are supposed to come to our hospital only for emergency services. Historically, people from Kerala have been coming to Mangaluru for treatment, and so it is our obligation to treat these patients as well,” he said. On challenges being faced, Hegde said, “Taking care of the health of our doctors and patients is important, since there are a lot of asymptomatic Covid-19 cases in Kasaragod, and unfortunately, for Kasaragod, even the Kannur border in their own state has been sealed. Hence, it is important for patients to provide us with the right information like travel history, or if they have experienced any symptoms similar to those suffering from Covid-19, along with their medical history.” Meanwhile, it is learnt that one of the patients who came from Kerala was a follow-up case, and when the hospital correctly diagnosed the ailment the patient was suffering from, and prescribed a course of treatment, the patient said that he does not want to be treated at this point of time, and went back to Kerala.  Dr Shetty, professor orthopaedics, and a member of the hospital’s task force, said, “Out of five patients that arrived in the first two days from Kasaragod, only two have been admitted for treatment. No patient is being denied treatment. At this phase of a pandemic, unnecessary travel to Dakshina Kannada is not advisable, especially for patients. Patients must consult with a doctor in Kasaragod before coming to Dakshina Kannada. ” Udupi DC seals dist borders The district administration on Friday moved to seal all borders of Udupi district in a bid to prevent the entry of outsiders and to curb the spread of coronavirus. In a video released on his Facebook page on Friday, deputy commissioner G Jagadeesha said, “Several people from other districts and states are entering the district with passes, while people from the district are also travelling outside. This cannot be allowed. Vehicles will also be blocked, except those ferrying drugs and other essential goods. Harbour will also remain closed.” “Three positive Covid-19 cases reported in the district have recovered and will soon be discharged from the hospital ,” the DC added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mangaluru/go-to-doc-in-kasaragod-before-rushing-to-mluru-says-expert/articleshow/75087787.cms||Deepthi Sanjiv
April 11, 2020||Visakhapatnam||Five positive cases in Kathipudi||KAKINADA: Five more coronavirus (Covid-19) positive cases have been confirmed in Kathipudi village of Shankavaram mandal in East Godavari ] on Friday. A person was diagnosed as Covid-19 positive in Kathipudi recently. As many as 29 samples of his relatives and neighbours have been tested and five were found to be positive. Speaking to TOI, East Godavari district medical and health officer Dr Satya Suseela said that eight-year-old daughter of a recently affected person, his mother-in-law and three neighbours aged three years, 25 years and 30 years old have tested Covid-19 positive. All the confirmed patients have been shifted to GSL Medical College near Rajahmundry. She further said that the authorities are trying find the children who played with the two kids who tested positive. Meanwhile, East Godavari SP Adnan Nayeem Asmi told TOI that cases have been booked against the father-in-law of the patient on Thursday as well as the doctor who treated him and the lab technician who conducted tests under Section 188 of the Pandemic Diseases Act. He further said that the police are contemplating on booking case on the patient as he failed to inform the field staff who visited his house as part of field survey.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/visakhapatnam/five-positive-cases-in-kathipudi/articleshow/75087783.cms||Samson Raj
April 11, 2020||Pune||Merchants’ body to shut down jaggery, grocery markets from April 13||Pune: The Poona Merchants’ Chamber on Friday decided to shut down the jaggery and grocery markets from April 13 citing “unwarranted harassment and high-handed approach” of police in dealing with its traders and vehicle drivers transporting goods to the market. Popatlal Oswal, the president of the chamber, wrote to the Pune Agriculture Produce Marketing Committee’s (APMC) chief administrator on Friday, “Against the backdrop of the police harassment, it has become impossible for us to keep our shops open. We have decided to shut down the jaggery and grocery markets from April 13 till there is improvement in the situation.” Oswal said, “For the past eight days, our traders and drivers of vehicles transporting essential commodities, have been facing problems at the police checkpoints. The police are refusing to recognise the identity cards and permits issued by the district collector’s office and are needlessly harassing them. This has deterred our porters from coming to the shops and there have been instances of assault on vehicle drivers.” City police commissioner K Venkatesham told TOI, “We are not aware of the issues raised by these people. However, we shall speak and facilitate genuine essential services as we have been doing so far. We have facilitated e-commerce people with proactive engagement and are also issuing more than 7,800 passes. The APMC is now closed as it comes in the containment zone.” Venkatesham said, “I am told some people have problem in mobilising labour as most of them are in containment zones. They are free to engage with the district authorities to resolve the genuine issues.” B J Deshmukh, the APMC’s chief administrator, said, “The police need to support the traders as they have been issued identity cards to facilitate the movement of essential commodities. I have submitted a report to the Pune divisional commissioner, district collector and the city police chief highlighting the problem.” The decision of the merchants’ chamber, an apex body of wholesale traders, may lead to shortage of grocery items in the days ahead though Oswal said the grocery market had so far received adequate supplies. APMC sub-markets to close The APMC has decided to close its sub-markets at Moshi, Uttamnagar, Pimpri and Khadki till further notice after the closure of the Market Yard in Gultekdi. “These sub-markets were open on Friday but regulating the crowd and maintaining social distancing was difficult,” said the APMC’s chief administrator, BJ Deshmukh. Pune municipal commissioner Shekhar Gaikwad told TOI, “We have identified 97 locations across the city where farmers will bring vegetables and fruits. Officials from the state agriculture department will regulate the bazaars at these locations.” An APMC official said meeting the city’s daily requirement of 8 tonnes of vegetables and 6 tonnes of fruits through smaller markets was a huge challenge and might result in demand-supply mismatch and price rise.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/merchants-body-to-shut-down-jaggery-grocery-markets-from-april-13/articleshow/75089100.cms||Asseem Shaikh
April 11, 2020||Rajkot||‘Isolating self early saved family from infection’||Rajkot: Two more COVID-19 patients recovered fully in Rjakot and were discharged from a private hospital on Friday evening. Mayurdhwajsinh Zala (36) was discharged from a private hospital on Friday. He had tested positive after he returned from trip in Dubai. Another patient, 37-year-old Priyadarshansinh Jadeja, who had visited France, had also tested positive on his return. He too was discharge from the same private hospital on Friday evening. Zala had reported to civil hospital after returning from Dubai, but the doctors on duty did not test him as he did not show any symptoms. However, after few days his health deteriorated and he got admitted to a private hospital. Talking to TOI Zala said “After my return, I had a feeling that I got the coronavirus infection and that’s why I had put myself in isolation at my home even though civil hospital doctors did not suspect anything wrong with me. Isolating myself at early stage saved my family from the infection.” He further said, “I was regularly following the news and that’s why when I first came to know that I am positive I got scared. But now I have recovered.”Meanwhile, Jadeja said that after returning from France he went into self quarantine and informed the authorities who put him under observation before he tested positive.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/isolating-self-early-saved-family-from-infection/articleshow/75088570.cms||---
April 11, 2020||Visakhapatnam||27 Covid-19 hotspots identified in Krishna, 2 Godavari districts||ELURU: Twenty-seven coronavirus hotspots have been identified in Krishna, East and West Godavari districts, announced Eluru range DIG, K Mohan Rao, here on Friday. Five hotspots are in East Godavari, 14 in West Godavari, three in Rajahmundry urban district and five in Krishna district. He added that essential commodities are being distributed through village volunteers in these areas as movement of people was completely restricted. Speaking to TOI, Mohan Rao said 45 coronavirus positive cases have been diagnosed in Eluru range and 36 out of them are Delhi returnees. With regard to six corona cases, which have been detected in Kathipudi in East Godavari district, he said the police are making efforts to trace the contacts of these positive cases. He said 55,241 cases have been booked under Motor Vehicles Act, Rs 3.22 crore has been collected in fine and 2,402 vehicles have been impounded. He maintained that 2,884 cases have been booked against people defying the lockdown and 7,271people have been booked under sections 188, 269, 271 of IPC and Epidemic Diseases Act.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/visakhapatnam/27-covid-19-hotspots-identified-in-krishna-2-godavari-districts/articleshow/75087793.cms||Samson Raj
April 11, 2020||Business||Net absorption of office space tanked 30% in Jan-March: JLL||Bengaluru: Net absorption of Grade A office space dropped 30% to 8.6 million sqft during the first three months of the year, compared to the same period a year earlier as the outbreak of Covid-19 made many businesses defer their real estate decisions, as per a report by independent property consultancy JLL. Construction activity and the process of obtaining requisite approvals from the government also slowed down in the beginning of March. “Over the next few months, leasing is expected to be mainly driven by renewals and consolidation activity. With fresh take up of spaces likely to be limited over the next couple of months, landlords might have to sit on locked in capital (completed buildings) for a relatively longer time period,” Ramesh Nair, CEO of JLL India, said. Last week, another consultancy firm Colliers said gross office space absorption was up 4% to 12 million sqft in the same time. Gross absorption includes net absorption and property under development that will be delivered within 4-6 quarters. The full impact of coronavirus on absorption will show up from the quarter starting April. Industry executives have already said that there is an impact on new lease signings due to delayed decision making, travel restrictions and budgets. Several leasing deals in the final stages of negotiation were deferred, JLL added, and new completions also saw a fall of 40% y-o-y. Out of the 8.6 million absorbed, IT-ITeS (56%) as well as co-working (13%) occupiers drove leasing activity during the quarter. Occupiers have also begun renegotiating their lease contracts for lower rents, an extension of rent-free period as well as waiver of lock-in periods.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/net-absorption-of-office-space-tanked-30-in-jan-march-jll/articleshow/75089106.cms||---
April 11, 2020||Mumbai||Mumbai: 101-year-old victim’s kin test Covid-19 positive too||MUMBAI: The son and daughter-in-law of a 101-year-old woman—the oldest in the state to succumb to coronavirus on Thursday—have tested positive as well. Grappling with several questions and grief, the son told TOI on Friday his mother was barely mobile and could only walk a few steps. The couple is currently undergoing treatment at SevenHills Hospital and have not got any major symptoms. “I have been thinking about it almost every moment. How did she get the infection? None of us has travelled abroad or ventured out, barring a few occasions to buy essentials. My children are also young,” said the 48-year-old son, adding their positive reports arrived a day after her demise, leaving them with little time to grieve. “We were asked to immediately get admitted to a hospital,” he said. “However, we got a lot of support from the BMC in terms of testing and finding a hospital bed,” he said. After the centenarian developed cough and weakness on April 3, the son admitted her to Brahman Sabha Hospital in Girgaum. “Though she didn’t have fever, I insisted that she should be tested for coronavirus, and the report came positive on Monday. The same day she passed away,” the son said, adding that unlike what he had heard about other coronavirus victims, he did not face any problems carrying out her final rites. Physician Dr Sanjay Godbole said the woman’s right lung was fibrotic and she was malnourished. “She had a history of tuberculosis. A day prior to coming to Brahman Sabha Hospital, they had gone to another hospital where she was put on IV drip,” he said, adding it would be difficult to point to a source of infection. “We have also inquired if anybody who had travelled to Nizamuddin had visited them. They have denied that,” he said. Following her positive report, they had shut down the hospital and quarantined around 55 staffers. “Their samples have been taken,” said the doctor.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/101-year-old-victims-kin-test-positive-too/articleshow/75088564.cms||Sumitra Debroy
April 11, 2020||Hyderabad||Rain wrecks crop, Telangana to take call on compensation today||HYDERABAD: The unseasonal rains and hailstorms have destroyed crops in over 25,000 acres. Paddy, mango, maize and leafy vegetables bore the brunt of the sudden rain. Officials said the actual damage would be known once the assessment reports are filed by district collectors. The state cabinet would take a decision on the compensation package to be given to the farmers whose crops had been damaged, sources said. The government is also writing to the central government on the crop damage and seeking financial assistance. The government has directed the collectors and agriculture extension officers to assess the crop damage and submit details by Saturday afternoon for the cabinet to take a call later in the evening. Farmers’ welfare associations and All India Kisan Congress vice-president M Kodanda Reddy have demanded that officials assess the extent of crop damage and pay adequate compensation. Officials involved in assessing the crop damage said the impact was severe in the districts of Khammam, Nalgonda, Siddipet, Yadadri-Bhuvangiri, Jangaon, Warangal, Suryapet and Rangareddy. Agriculture minister Singireddy Niranjan Reddy appealed to the farmers to coordinate with the officials of agriculture department and report the crop damage to the insurance companies to avail insurance for the damage. Hailstorm is notified under localised calamity in crop insurance which provides the insurance cover at individual farm level for the notified crop. “Farmers should intimate the loss within 72 hours to the insurance company through toll-free numbers 18005992594 or 18001035499,” said an official. The civil supplies department is making arrangements to procure wet and damaged paddy from farmers.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/rain-wrecks-crop-call-on-compensation-today/articleshow/75089114.cms||Roushan Ali
April 11, 2020||Kolhapur||Maharashtra: Satara registers its 7th Covid-19 positive case||KOLHAPUR: Satara district registered its seventh Covid-19 positive case on Friday. According to district civil surgeon Amod Gadikar, the patient was a close contact with the third positive case identified on April 2. “The close contact was patient traced and admitted in the isolation ward on April 8 and his swab samples were sent to laboratory of BJ Medical College in Pune on the same day. The result was received on Friday evening,” he said. Meanwhile, as many as 25 suspects have been admitted to the isolation wards of Phaltan sub-district and Satara district hospitals.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolhapur/satara-registers-its-7th-covid-19-positive-case/articleshow/75089095.cms||---
April 11, 2020||Pune||Police make rounds of societies in Kondhwa after receiving complaints||Pune: The Kondhwa police have now started making rounds of housing societies in its jurisdiction, telling people to remain indoors and not to venture out without masks. Police said the managements of 10 housing societies in the area informed them that the residents were not listening to instructions and requested for help. Parts of Kondhwa area have been sealed as a Covid-19 containment measure. "We received information from the management of many housing societies that people were roaming around the society, moving out often, and not adhering to regulations. There was also information that many were moving out of their homes without wearing masks, which is against the rules", Vinayak Gaikwad, senior inspector, Kondhwa police station, said. On Friday morning, an autorickshaw fitted with loudspeaker moved around the area, making announcements about the regulations. "We are informing people about the rules and the dangers related to the virus. They are being told that those flouting the regulations will face legal action. The exercise will continue during the lockdown", he said. Asked whether the regulations would be lifted in Kondhwa after April 14, he said that it was still uncertain. "There have been quite a few positive cases in the area and different spots have been sealed. Cases can only be controlled if people listen to what is being told," he said. Sources said that morning and evening walks inside the society premises was also a concern. "This is a lockdown and people should stay indoors and only step out when absolutely necessary. The security guards in housing societies have been told to inform morning and evening walkers to refrain from doing so. If they are still adamant, the society officials can call us," a police official said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/police-make-rounds-of-societies-in-kondhwa-after-receiving-complaints/articleshow/75089111.cms||Joy Sengupta
April 11, 2020||Pune||Kondhwa residents face a battle for groceries||Pune: For Kondhwa resident Nilay Prakhar, buying groceries for the month after he received his salary a week ago has become an arduous task. “While most grocery shops remaining open for two hours, only one supermarket is open during the same period in the area. Each morning, I wake up at 6am but by the time I reach the supermarket the queue is very long. On two occasions, I couldn’t even enter the place. It is the same with grocery stores that open to a large crowd. After trying for four days, I was able to buy groceries to last a fortnight,” Prakhar said. Nilesh Karandikar, who lives in a housing society in the same area, was also concerned. “The civic authorities and district administration said that vegetables and other essentials will be supplied at the society gate. However, I don’t find it happening. Moreover, when we try to order from Big Basket or Grofers, the slots are always closed,” he said. With parts of Kondhwa sealed to halt the spread of Covid-19 in the area, shops supplying essentials remain open from 7am to 9am and 5pm to 7pm. “By the time it’s our turn, we only get half the items on the list. At the supermarket on Salunkhe Vihar road, the queue is long and, on two occasions, I haven’t been able to buy anything. What happened to the administration’s plan to ensure that groceries are delivered outside the society gates? It has been over a week that I have been trying to order via Big Basket but their slots are always closed,” another resident asked. “We are currently operating at roughly 45% of our peak capacity because of manpower shortage at our warehouses and for last-mile delivery. Therefore, slots are closing early. Deliveries at Kondhwa and Salunkhe Vihar are further constrained because these areas are under complete lockdown,” a Big Basket spokesperson told TOI. NCP corporator from Kondhwa Nanda Lonkar said the store timings are a concern. “Essentials like vegetables are not reaching housing societies. I have talked to the local police and requested them to allow people to buy essentials in the morning and evening during the stipulated time and consider their genuine issues. We are trying to ensure that people in housing societies get the essentials,” she said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/kondhwa-residents-face-a-battle-for-groceries/articleshow/75089103.cms||Joy Sengupta
April 11, 2020||Visakhapatnam||Chikoo supply not even one-tenth of usual: Traders||VISAKHAPATNAM: Suspension of transport has hit chikoo farmers who are unable to take the fruits from the orchards to the market. While they watch their fruits rot, buyers are paying exorbitant amounts for the few reaching the market. Speaking to TOI, K Sailaja, assistant director of horticulture department, said, “Chikoos are grown as a buffer crop in mango and cashew belt. The total area of sapota orchards in all the four districts does not exceed 8,000 hectares and much of it is sold in urban areas.” Wholesale merchants, however, claim that supply of chikoo is negligible compared to the demand. P Ramesh, a wholesaler from Poorna Market said, “Transportation has become a major issue. The current supply is not even one tenth of the average seasonal inflow.” Customers, obviously, are not happy. A customer at Siripurammarket said, “The rates are sky high and some are charging as much as Rs 100 per kilo.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/visakhapatnam/chikoo-supply-not-even-one-tenth-of-usual-traders/articleshow/75087816.cms||Venkatesh Bayya
April 11, 2020||India||Villagers attend ultra’s funeral, held||SRINAGAR: At least 20 residents of Baramulla’s Sopore area who violated lockdown orders and attended the funeral of Sajad Dar — a Jaish terrorist killed on Wednesday — were arrested during police raids late on Thursday. While handing over Dar’s body to his kin, police had advised them to follow the Covid-19 protocol. But they ignored the instructions and hundreds of villagers thronged the slain terrorist’s funeral.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/villagers-attend-ultras-funeral-held/articleshow/75089746.cms||M Saleem Pandit
April 11, 2020||Ranchi||Machine boost for Ranchi civic body in clean drive||RANCHI: The Ranchi Municipal Corporation (RMC) on Friday said the strength of its workforce is enough to sanitise the city and it will not require the help of fire-fighters as of now. Notably, many civic bodies in the country have deployed fire-fighters in the fight against the novel coronavirus. Talking to TOI, the RMC official in-charge of health and sanitation, Rupesh Ranjan, said, “Right now, we are able to carry out the sanitisation drive with our own force. We are using fogging machines, water tankers and de-silting machines for the purpose.” The RMC official said they are sanitising the city in multiple shifts. Ranjan added, “We have only five functional water tankers and we hope to get 15 more water tankers by Monday. With the raised strength, we will be able to sanitise the whole city at the same time.”  The RMC sanitation staff will be provided incentives like Rs 2,000 bonus for 20 continuous days of field work and medical insurance of Rupees 10 lakhs in case of their demise, said Ranjan. Eight buses have also been deployed to pick up and drop off the workers before and after their shifts.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/machine-boost-for-ranchi-civic-body-in-clean-drive/articleshow/75088099.cms||---
April 11, 2020||Ranchi||Former Jharkhand CM Das’s nephew booked for ‘lockdown violation’||Jamshedpur: Police have filed an FIR against 15 persons, including a family member of former chief minister Raghubar Das, for violating the nationwide lockdown imposed to contain the spread of the novel coronavirus. After filing an FIR around midnight on Thursday, Sitaramdera police arrested five of the accused while efforts are on to apprehend the remaining, including Kamlesh Sahu, the nephew of the former CM. Sahu, a BJP’s youth wing functionary, and the others had assembled at a local temple in Bhalubasa on Thursday afternoon to distribute food packets among people without taking permission from the administration, police said. Bhalubasa falls under the Jamshedpur (East) assembly constituency, which Das represented for 25 years since 1995, until he was defeated by BJP rebel-turned independent candidate Saryu Rai in last year’s assembly polls. The distribution of food packets led to a large gathering of slum-dwellers in the area, resulting in violation of social distancing norms. “We reached the spot and dispersed the crowd,” said Sitaramdera police station in-charge Anjani Prasad. He added that apart from booking the violators under Section 144 of the CrPC, police have booked Sahu and the 14 others under Sections 269 and 270 of the IPC. Those arrested include Nagesh Prasad, Ramesh Prasad, Subhash Pandey, Videshi Sahu and Chanda Kumari, police said. TOI tried contacting Sahu several times, but his phone remained switched off. With the number of Covid-19 cases increasing in the state, the East Singhbhum district administration has given strict instructions to implement the nationwide lockdown. Action has been taken against more than 200 people from different parts of the district on charges of violation of the lockdown since it came into force on March 24 midnight.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/former-jharkhand-cm-dass-nephew-booked-for-lockdown-violation/articleshow/75088225.cms||B Sridhar
April 11, 2020||Ranchi||‘Grant bail to petty offenders to reduce congestion in jails’||RANCHI: The Jharkhand State Legal Services Authority (Jhalsa) secretary, A K Rai, on Friday wrote to all the principal district judges-cum-chairpersons of District Legal Services Authority, requesting them to evaluate the cases of those undertrial prisoners who are accused of committing petty offences liberally and to grant them bail or at least interim bail for 45 days. The request comes after a high-powered committee, comprising senior judges and government officials, met on Wednesday and decided that courts would be requested to leniently consider bail petitions in order to maintain social distancing norms in jails in view of the Covid-19 threat. Talking about the decision, the Jhalsa secretary said, “The committee has asked Jhalsa to take necessary steps to provide legal aid to undertrial prisoners, who are accused of those offences which call for up to seven years of imprisonment and to those who are not accused of heinous crimes or economic offences or crimes related to extremism and those who have a more or less clean criminal history.” The committee has further suggested that in cases considered appropriate by the courts, releasing the inmates on personal bonds may also be considered. It has also requested the state government to release prisoners on parole as per the rules. Meanwhile, the jail administration is shifting around 4,000 prisoners from the highly congested jails to the less congested prisons. Jail IG Sashi Ranjan said, “The shifting is being done in three phases. Around 2,700 prisoners have been shifted in two phases, while approximately 1,300 will be transferred to another jail in the third phase”. On releasing prisoners on parole, he said that the administration is seeking reports in this regard.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/grant-bail-to-petty-offenders-to-reduce-congestion-in-jails/articleshow/75088114.cms||---
April 11, 2020||Ranchi||HEC builds full-body sanitising chamber to keep workers safe||RANCHI: Joining the nationwide fight against Covid-19, the 62-year-old PSU, Heavy Engineering Corporation (HEC) Ltd in Ranchi, commissioned a full-body sanitising chamber on Friday. “The sanitising chamber has been designed and manufactured by HEC. We have used scrap materials lying around at HEC plants to set up the chamber. It’s height is 9 feet, width 4 feet with a length of 6 feet. The sanitising chamber is designed for one person at a time,” Rana S Chakravarty, the director ( marketing and production), HEC, told TOI. HEC has improvised to make the chamber more effective. Instead of a pump, which most such chambers are using, HEC has installed a high-speed fan for effectively spraying the disinfectant mist on the body of each person entering the chamber. Spraying for around 20 seconds would commence automatically as soon as one enters the chamber, he explained. The sanitising enclosure has been installed at the HEC’s Heavy Machine Buildings Plant (HMBP). All workers of all the three HEC plants —Foundry and Forge, Heavy Machine Tools and HMBP — will be required to walk through the sanitising chamber. Outside the sanitising chamber, circles have been drawn, 1.5 meters apart, to ensure that all workers waiting for their turn, strictly adhere to social distancing as advised by the Union health ministry and the Indian Council of Medical Research, Chakravarty added. “By using scrap and waste materials to manufacture the sanitising chamber, HEC has converted waste to wealth,” he said. When asked if HEC would be willing to manufacture similar sanitising chambers for the state government and for others in the state, the HEC director (marketing & production) replied that the PSU would always be ready to supplement the state efforts to combat the deadly virus. “We are also making arrangements for manual spraying of disinfectants on all cars and other vehicles entering HEC plants and its corporate office,” Chakravarty said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/hec-builds-full-body-sanitising-chamber-to-keep-workers-safe/articleshow/75088155.cms||Tapas Biswas
April 11, 2020||Nagpur||Shegaon temple forms 500-bed isolation facility||Nagpur: Sant Gajanan Maharaj temple of Shegaon in Buldhana district is one of the biggest religious centres in Maharashtra and known for its unique model of service by devotees for devotees. Now, the temple has joined the fight against Covid-19 with all its resources. The temple is closed for visitors since March 22. The trust running it has handed over 2 big buildings in Shegaon, including its massive community kitchen to Buldhana district collector. Here they have created 500-bed separate isolation complexes for corona suspects and patients. The community kitchen is now preparing lunch and dinner for 2,000 people – mostly migrant labourers sheltered in different schools/colleges in Buldhana district. Food is provided free. “We requisitioned two facilities from Gajanan Maharaj Temple Trust. They readily provided them. We have converted them into quarantine with capacity upto 500 beds,” said Buldhana district collector Suman Rawat Chandra. “All over the district we have identified around 4,000 beds at various location,” she added. Buldhana district has recorded 17 positive cases of Covid-19 till date and one death. Cases in this district are not limited to urban areas. As many as 10 cases are from villages in Shegaon, Deulgaon Raja, Chikhli and Khamgaon tehsils. As a result, institutional quarantine facilities are required across the district. Buldhana also does not have a government hospital or a medical college. “We appealed NGOs to cater to the need of the entire district and we are getting good support,” the collector added. Office-bearers of Shegaon Sansthan TOI spoke to were not willing to be named. “We consider it our national duty. We don’t want any publicity or fame for this. Due to blessings of Gajanan Maharaj, people irrespective of religion and beliefs are served here,” said a senior member of the Trust. He said the temple was ready to provide all available resources for public. “We closed the temple for devotees, even before the lockdown was announced. We cancelled the annual Ram Navami celebrations too. Health and well-being of people are most important,” the trustee said. Shegaon temple has a unique system of ‘Sevekaris’. Educated and well-settled youths from across the state register themselves as servants in this temple and offer free service for 2 weeks a year. During Covid-19 period, many such ‘Sevekaris’ are providing services in community kitchen while doctors and medical staff will take charge of isolation wards.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/shegaon-temple-forms-500-bed-isolation-facility/articleshow/75088603.cms||Chaitanya Deshpande
April 11, 2020||India||India beats other nations in Covid response: Study||NEW DELHI: India fares better as compared to other countries such as the United States, Germany, Italy, Spain, South Korea and Britain in the Oxford Covid-19 Government Response Tracker (OxCGRT). OxCGRT provides a systematic cross-national, crosstemporal measure to understand how government responses have evolved over the full period of the disease’s spread. The project tracks governments’ policies and interventions across a standardised series of indicators and creates a composite index to measure the stringency of these responses. Data is collected and updated in real time at Oxford University. Data is collected on 13 indicators, which include how governments have responded on closing schools and workspaces; cancelling public events; closing public transport; launching public information campaign; restrictions on internal movement; international travel controls; fiscal measures; monetary measures; emergency investment in health care; investment in vaccines; testing policy; and contact tracing. Coronavirus pandemic: Live updatesThe Modi government moved swiftly since the virus arrived in the country and unveiled a series of measures to contain the outbreak. It announced a 21-day lockdown, ramped up testing, closed public transport and international travel as well banned flights from overseas. It has announced measures to support the poor and the Reserve Bank of India has unleashed interest rate cuts and liquidity-enhancing steps. More on Covid-19Coronavirus pandemic: Complete Coverage21-day lockdown: What will stay open and what won'tHow to quarantine yourself at homeTrust the newspaper for your daily verified newsAccording to the data on the Oxford tracker, India has consistently been on the upper band of the index, suggesting that the response was quick while other countries lagged in unveiling quick measures. But it cautioned that the Stringency Index should not be interpreted as a measure of the appropriateness or effectiveness of a government’s response. It does not provide information on how well policies are enforced, it said. It's time to mask up and stay safe: Join TOI's #MaskIndia campaign||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/india-beats-other-nations-in-covid-response-study/articleshow/75089755.cms||---
April 11, 2020||India||Government in touch with US over visa extensions||NEW DELHI: India has been in touch with the US government for extending the validity of visa of Indian nationals (H1B and other types of visa holders) who are stranded in the US due to the Covid-19 pandemic. Foreign secretary Harsh Shringla in his telephone conversation with US deputy secretary of state Stephen Biegun took up this issue, official sources said. If the employer in the US terminates the contract of an H1B holder employee, the employee needs to find new employment within 60 days to retain H1B status. Government sources clarified that there was no order as such from the US government asking employers to terminate services of H1B visa holders. Congress on Friday had urged the government to talk to the Trump administration to prevent job losses of Indians holding H-1B visa.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/government-in-touch-with-us-over-visa-extensions/articleshow/75089768.cms||---
April 11, 2020||Business||Some N Bengal tea estates resume ops on govt nod||Darjeeling/Jalpaiguri: A day after the state government gave its nod for resumption of operations with a maximum of 15% of the regular workforce, tea gardens in north Bengal remained under partial lockdown on Friday, with just a few estates having started skiffing (pruning of extra bushes). The central committees of various unions have left it to their labourers’ units to take a decision in the matter, after having studied the ground realities. “We have asked our units to talk to the garden workers. We have told them to talk the ‘samaj’ (local communities) heads. Proper medical facilities have to be made available to the workers. Only then, they will report for work,” said a senior leader of predominant trade union. The unions, however, are in a fix over whether they should abide by the government order, given that any mishaps will attract harsh repercussions. “We have to adhere to the state and Central government orders. But it is also true that the safety of the workers is of paramount importance at the moment,” the union leader said. Indian Tea Association (ITA) chairman Vivek Goenka said skiffing operations have started at many gardens as per the CM’s order. “We are working with the government so that we can start plucking soon. gardens in Assam will start opening from Saturday or Monday. Safety protocols have been put in place.” On the crop loss so far, the ITA chairman said that it will be quite significant, given that the bushes were lying unattended for over two weeks. “We can expect close to 100 million kg lower output than last year.” Jeevan Chandra Pandey, manager of Goodricke-owned Denguajhar tea estate, on the outskirts of Jalpaiguri, said: “Skiffing is being done to prune the leaves as production of made tea has not yet begun. If this work can be done properly, we can expect good quality green leaves once the lockdown ends.” The owners and the Darjeeling Tea Association (DTA), an umbrella organization of tea gardens in the Hills, refused to comment on the issue. Sanjay Bagchi, secretary of ITA Dooars Branch, said: “Spraying will be done on the bushes, which have already been attacked by loopers. We have asked the member gardens to strictly maintain the norms while engaging workers.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/some-n-bengal-tea-estates-resume-ops-on-govt-nod/articleshow/75088682.cms||Deep Gazmer
April 11, 2020||Vijayawada||Call on extending lockdown after meeting with PM today||VIJAYAWADA: Although the government is yet to take a final call yet, the lockdown in the state is likely to be extended. Official sources said present scenario in the state warrants that the lockdown be extended to contain the spread of Covid-19. Chief minister YS Jaganmohan Reddy held a review meet with chief secretary Nilam Sawhney, DGP D Gautam Sawang and health department officials on Friday to solicit their opinions on the extension of the lockdown, besides taking stock of the prevailing situation. Official sources said the government is in waiting and is likely to take a decision on the basis of Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s video conference with all chief ministers, scheduled to be held on Saturday. A health official explained to the chief minister that they are preparing five hospitals in each district, apart from the four critical care hospitals in the state. As of now one hospital in each district is available and they are gearing up to face any kind of exigencies in coming days. The chief minister directed the officials to provide better facilities in isolation and quarantine wards. He said the third round of door-to-door survey has to be done to identify potential suspects and any person with running nose, cough and flu-like symptoms must be tested to rule out coronavirus. On the other hand, the chief minister also reviewed the crop loss due to untimely rains across the state. He said the agriculture department will will make the estimates of crop loss on a war footing and pay compensation to the farmers. He directed the officials to pay compensation, within 24 hours, to the families of fishermen, who died in Krishna district and the families of those who died after being struck by lightning . Earlier, Jaganmohan Reddy held a video conference with all 13 collectors and doctors treating Covid-19 positive patients. He lauded them for their efforts.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/call-on-extending-lockdown-after-meeting-with-pm-today/articleshow/75087166.cms||---
April 11, 2020||Vijayawada||Lightning fatalities rise to 10; met department warns of rain, gale||VIJAYAWADA: The total death toll of lightning strike fatalities across Andhra Pradesh rose to 10 on Friday, according to the Andhra Pradesh State Disaster Management Authority (APSDMA). According to officials, around seven people died after being struck by lightning in Nellore district alone. Three sheep rearers in the outskirts of Chennur village died on Thursday. Apart from that, deaths have been reported in Alur, Bogole and Naidupet mandal in the district. Two more lightning strike fatalities were reported in Guntur district and one in Prakasam district. SDMA has issued a statement claiming that advance warnings of lightning strikes was issued to people via bulk text messages and WhatsApp messages on Thursday morning. “We had issued advance warnings with the likely location of lightning and asked people to stay away from those places. But still the deaths occurred,” an SDMA official stated. Disaster Management commissioner K Kanna Babu urged people to follow the instructions sent by the department and stay in safe places to avoid such tragedies. Gusty wings along with heavy rain lashed Nellore city and many adjacent mandals snapping electric wires and cables and uprooting transformers disrupting power supply. “It is important for farmers, farm labourers and cattle-grazers to stay at safer places whenever there is a thunderstorm or lightning,” Kanna Babu added. Meanwhile, the meteorological department issued a warning that moderate rains coupled with gales would continue for the next two days. The electricity department is trying to assess damages and restore power supply. On the other hand, civil supplies department is procuring paddy stocks in many areas in Nellore district as they are planning to shift them to procurement centres. However, the sudden thunderstorm resulted in many of the paddy stocks being submerged.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/lightning-fatalities-rise-to-10-met-dept-warns-of-rain-gale/articleshow/75087185.cms||---
April 11, 2020||India||Red flags over Israeli firm’s new tool||NEW DELHI: Digital advocacy group Internet Freedom Foundation has written to the CMs of Maharashtra and Chhattisgarh urging them to establish committees to investigate the surveillance software, Pegasus, which was allegedly used to scrutinise at least 120 Indians by exploiting a vulnerability in WhatsApp. Those targeted included lawyers and activists related to the Bhima-Koregaon case in Maharashtra and Dalit activists in Chhattisgarh. Pegasus is owned by Israelbased firm NSO, which has reportedly developed a surveillance software to track Covid-19. In a statement, IFF said that although it’s unclear whether NSO approached the Indian government, it is important to be cautious.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/red-flags-over-israeli-firms-new-tool/articleshow/75089774.cms||Anam Ajmal
April 11, 2020||Vijayawada||MEPMA provides shelter to the urban homeless||VIJAYAWADA: In a bid to provide shelter to the urban homeless, migrant workers and those who have stranded because of the nationwide lockdown, the Mission for Elimination of Poverty in Municipal Areas (MEPMA) has created 129 makeshift shelter homes and enhanced facilities at its 82 existing shelter homes. Mission director GS Naveen Kumar said that as many as 9,733 people are being provided shelter across the state. Working in convergence with respective district administrations, MEPMA has identified school buildings, function halls and community centres to set up relief camps. Naveen Kumar said that beggars, migrant workers and the urban homeless people are more prone to Covid-19 spread. He said that MEPMA has taken all measures to provide them shelter along with basic amenities like food and drinking water. Medical tests are also being performed and the national protocol on social distancing is being maintained, the mission director said. Apart from providing shelter, MEPMA is also conducting community outreach programmes to spread awareness about the importance of social distancing, frequent hand washing and personal protection. Kumar said that medical camps are being conducted across all urban local bodies.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/mepma-provides-shelter-to-the-urban-homeless/articleshow/75087193.cms||---
April 11, 2020||Amaravati||Discom revenue takes a hit as consumers refuse to pay online||AMARAVATI: The Central Power Distribution Company Limited (CPDCL) is struggling to convince consumers to pay their bills online. The Discom’s collections have almost dipped to nil due to the lockdown. CPDCL authorities are worried that keeping operations running would get extremely difficult if people don’t pay their bills. Meanwhile industries and commercial establishments have been seeking deferment of payment schedules and domestic consumers are hoping for some relief from the government. However, speaking to TOI, J Padma Janardhan Reddy, CMD of CPDCL said, “We are already walking on a tightrope. It is difficult to grant any concessions or relief at this juncture.” Sources say that the state government too is worried about the trend as CPDCL constitutes the biggest commercial zones in Krishna, Guntur and Prakasam districts. The discom has been recently making nearly Rs450 crore from the three districts. CPDCL’s revenue in January and February was good and the discom made nearly 100 per cent progress in collection of bills from consumers, particularly from HT (industrial segment), commercial and domestic. While the HT segment contributed nearly 25% of total revenue, commercial establishments make for nearly 35% of the payment load. Payments of domestic consumers constitute nearly 40%. Discom officials say that while all commercial and industrial activity grinded to a halt on March 22 due to the lockdown, consumption had gone on till March 21— which make for nearly 80% of bills for March. “All industrial and commercial establishments were in operation till March 21. We are requesting them to clear the March dues as they consumed power for three weeks and because their billing begins from the first of every month,” Janardhan Reddy said. The CPDCL CMD further said, “It is not possible to postpone or waive bills as even we are struggling to manage our coffers.” He appealed to consumers to use the mobile application and clear bills as soon as possible so as to avoid penalties. There is no chance of power bills being postponed or waived off. People should immediately download the mobile app or reach our EROs to the pay the bill and avoid penalties||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/amaravati/discom-revenue-takes-a-hit-as-consumers-refuse-to-pay-online/articleshow/75087200.cms||Samdani MN
April 11, 2020||Vijayawada||Electricity demand in state plummets to six-year low due to Covid lockdown||VIJAYAWADA: Demand for electricity in Andhra Pradesh fell to a six-year-low on Thursday, April 9 due to the nationwide lockdown imposed to stem the spread of Covid-19. Officials of AP discoms, during a video conference on Friday, informed energy secretary Nagulappali Srikanth that grid demand in the state plummeted to 127MU (million units) on Thursday, from 152 MU on April 8 (Wednesday), registering a steep fall of 25 MU. The maximum demand in the state also fell from 8,100 MW to 6,400 MW on the same day. The maximum and minimum demands of the state during the day were 6,400 MW and 4,150 MW respectively. There is a difference of approximately 3,300 MW in the afternoon compared to the previous day’s demand, officials said. “The demand usually goes up to 190 MU to 200MU in the summer season. But the demand is hovering around 150 MU to 160 MU per day as many companies, commercial establishments, and offices have shut down. This is the lowest demand noticed for the first time after Cyclone Hudhud struck Vizag in 2014,” officials said. Explaining the reasons for the further fall in demand on Thursday, officials said that out of 1,500 feeders with 33KV capacity, nearly 80 broke down and out of 12,000 feeders of 11KV capacity, 276 broke down in Nellore, Kadapa and Machilipatnam due to strong winds and heavy rain. “The electricity staff and engineers worked till midnight and restored all feeders except three 33KV ones. The remaining works are under way,” a discom official said. Meanwhile, due to the coronavirus pandemic and breakdown of feeders as well as reduced power consumption, the demand across the three discoms — APEPDCL, APCPDCL and APSPDCL — has declined considerably. The situation has been brought to normal and demand started picking up from the early hours of Friday. The AP Genco stations on the other hand have been place under reserve shut down to stock coal for the summer season and this shortage is being tied up from exchange at very economical prices ranging from 1.95 to 2.15 per unit. Energy secretary N Srikant said that the staff was working 24x7 to avoid inconvenience to consumers during critical times and ensure uninterrupted supply to hospitals.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/electricity-demand-in-state-plummets-to-six-year-low-due-to-covid-lockdown/articleshow/75087245.cms||---
April 11, 2020||India||IPS officer sent on leave for helping Wadhawans travel||MUMBAI/ PUNE: A day after the Wadhawans’ trip to Mahabaleshwar in violation of the lockdown became public, the state government on Friday sent IPS officer Amitabh Gupta, who issued a letter allowing the travel, on forced leave and ordered a probe. Kapil Wadhawan and his brother Dheeraj (Baba Dewan), promoters of Dewan Housing Finance Ltd (DHFL), were found travelling with their families and retainers though a special court had issued a non-bailable arrest warrant against the siblings, out on bail in a money laundering case, on March 17 in a CBI case. There was also a lookout circular against the brothers to prevent them from fleeing the country. Gupta, principal secretary (special) in the home department, was unavailable for comment. On Friday, the CBI asked the Satara collector and superintendent of police not to release Kapil and Dheeraj without a no-objection certificate from the investigators or the court. The 24-member group is in a quarantine home in Panchgani. Before the lockdown, the CBI had searched Wadhawan premises at different locations, including Mahabaleshwar, to question them in a case linked to Kapoor, but in vain. After that, they had approached the court and got the warrant. Five cars used by the group have been seized. Officials claimed Gupta told his seniors that a wrong draft of his authority letter was sent out by his office. A second letter circulated on Friday didn’t mention that the people travelling were “well known to me as they were family friends”.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/ips-officer-sent-on-leave-for-helping-wadhawans-travel/articleshow/75089775.cms||Vijay V Singh
April 11, 2020||India||ED relieved Wadhawans' have surfaced||NEW DELHI: Though unhappy with Amitabh Gupta, Maharashtra’s principal secretary, home, for authorising Wadhawans’ travel, ED is relieved as it has been able to track down the brothers. They had gone off the radar despite repeated summons in a laundering case related to the bribing of Yes Bank co-founder Rana Kapoor and a non-bailable warrant against them.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/ed-relieved-wadhawans-have-surfaced/articleshow/75089788.cms||Pradeep Thakur
April 11, 2020||Business||ADB chief calls finance minister, promises $2.2 billion aid for health sector||NEW DELHI: Asian Development Bank (ADB) president Masatsugu Asakawa on Friday assured finance minister Nirmala Sitharaman of the multilateral agency’s support to New Delhi in its fight against the novel coronavirus pandemic and said it was planning a $2.2 billion immediate assistance for the country’s health sector. This is one of the largest ever assistance from a multilateral agency for the country’s health sector and is expected to significantly bolster the government’s efforts to ramp up its fight against the ravaging virus outbreak. The government has already taken several steps to accelerate testing, ready quarantine zones and help for the frontline healthcare workers and the availability of funds will further strengthen the efforts and help revamp the country’s health care sector. Coronavirus outbreak: Live updatesIn a call, Asakawa commended the Indian government’s decisive response to the pandemic, including a national health emergency programme, tax and other relief measures provided to businesses, and a $23 billion economic relief package announced on March 26 to provide immediate income and consumption support to the poor, women, and workers affected by the three-week nationwide lockdown. More on Covid-19Coronavirus pandemic: Complete Coverage21-day lockdown: What will stay open and what won'tHow to quarantine yourself at homeTrust the newspaper for your daily verified news“ADB is committed to supporting India’s emergency needs. We are now preparing $2.2 billion in immediate assistance to the health sector and to help alleviate the economic impact of the pandemic on the poor. ADB assistance for India will be further increased if needed,” Asakawa said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/adb-chief-calls-fm-promises-2-2-billion-aid-for-health-sector/articleshow/75089794.cms||---
April 11, 2020||Mumbai||11 more Covid-19 cases found in Dharavi, facility with 700 beds planned||MUMBAI: Dharavi reported 11 new Covid-19 cases on Friday. It took the total in the most densely populated locality of the city to 28, which included three deaths. The first case was reported on April 1, when a garment businessman died hours after testing positive. Civic officials said they have decided to set up a 700-bed isolation facility in Dharavi transit camp municipal school on a priority basis. There already are 300 beds at the Rajiv Gandhi District Sports Complex, where over 40 persons are qurantined. From the 11 new cases, one was a 29-year-old woman whose husband, a surgeon in a South Mumbai hospital, had tested positive last week. Another positive case was of a person who had returned from the Tablighi Jamaat Markaz in Nizamuddin, Delhi. Civic officials said the man in his 50s had already been kept quarantined. A list of persons who had returned from the Nizamuddin Markaz and were staying in Dharavi was provided to the BMC by the police. The other positive cases were of persons from Muslim Nagar, Kalyanwadi and Murugan Chawl. A 31-year-old case from Kalyanwadi was a distant relative of the 70-year-old woman froom the locality who died on Thursday. "The woman's husband died a few days ago and the 31-year-old had visited her to offer condolences," said an official. From Mukund Nagar, five persons tested positive. All public and community toilets were disinfected, said officials. The police arrested a group of six persons who had assembled at a home for Good Friday prayers despite orders against gatherings.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/11-more-covid-19-cases-found-in-dharavi-facility-with-700-beds-planned/articleshow/75089806.cms||Richa Pinto
April 11, 2020||India||PM Narendra Modi discusses war on corona with Japan’s Abe, Nepal PM||NEW DELHI: PM Narendra Modi on Friday spoke to his Japan and Nepal counterparts, Shinzo Abe and K P Oli respectively, on the Covid-19 crisis and steps taken to prevent the spread of the deadly virus. In his conversation with Oli, Modi reiterated India’s commitment for ensuring all possible support and assistance for Nepal’s efforts in fighting this global pandemic. The two leaders agreed that their experts and officials would continue to closely consult and coordinate with each other on all issues arising out of the Covid-19 situation, including for facilitating cross-border supplies of essential commodities. “Prime Minister Oli reiterated his appreciation for PM Modi’s initiative in coordinating the response to the pandemic among Saarc countries. He also expressed his thanks for the bilateral support provided to Nepal by India,” said the government in a statement. In the conversation with Abe, the two leaders discussed the global health and economic challenges emerging out of the Covid-19 pandemic.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/pm-narendra-modi-discusses-war-on-corona-with-japans-abe-nepal-pm/articleshow/75089801.cms||---
April 11, 2020||Mumbai||Many visitors stranded in Mumbai even after end of quarantine||MUMBAI: Arun Satheesh has had enough of hotel stays. The marketing professional landed in Mumbai from Russia last month and has spent 19 days hopping from one hotel to another, with no means of returning home to Calicut. Like Satheesh, scores of people from across India are stranded in Mumbai due to the lockdown. Their pockets are fast emptying and some have taken ill. With indications the lockdown could get extended, those stranded fear the worst. Satheesh, 48, landed in Mumbai on March 21. He was asked to sign a document which forbade him for travelling home by air or rail. “Authorities appeared confused at the airport. While I wasn’t allowed to fly home, another airline carrying 30 Kerala-bound travellers was given the green signal,” Satheesh said. He was asked to self-quarantine for 14 days. With no relatives in Mumbai, Satheesh checked into a budget hotel in Andheri East. Within days, the national lockdown started, and the hotel’s owner and most of the staff left. Cash has dried up, have changed three hotels, says stranded man A few staffers of the hotel who had been left behind insisted that I make all payments in cash. Their cooking area was very dirty and I decided to only have boiled eggs. I offered them my card to purchase provisions from the market; but they refused. After nine days, my cash dried up and I decided to leave,” said Satheesh. He moved to another budget hotel for the rest of the quarantine period. “The room had no windows and the hotel had switched off the air-conditioner as all the guests staying there were being quarantined. After five days, I moved to a third hotel. My family in Calicut is very concerned,” he said. An elderly couple from Kerala who had flown to Mumbai from overseas have been similarly stranded just the way Satheesh is. Parameshwaran K, 65, and his wife Suma, 56, landed in Mumbai from Canada on March 21 after a six- month stay at their daughter’s place. They were scheduled to take a flight to their home in Kannur when the authorities stopped them and sent them to SevenHills Hospital in Andheri for tests. Suma is an assistant nurse and was to join duty in her hometown on March 28. She was given permission to fly back home, but her husband was asked to stay back in Mumbai. The couple however wanted to be together and opted to be quarantined at a luxury hotel near the city’s airport. They both tested negative for Covid-19. But after running up massive bills at the hotel, they were forced to move. Presently, they have put up in a defence guest house in Goregaon. “We have spent Rs 75,000 so far in this city. The only time we had come to Mumbai before was a decade ago, and we had come at that time as tourists. But this stay has robbed my peace," said Parmeshwaran, a retired bank officer. Suma said she had wanted to join work soon so she could look after Covid-19 patients but has no idea when she can do that. In Mira Road’s Ram Rahim dormitory, 50-year-old Vijay Prithvani is waiting to get home to Chhattisgarh. He came to Mumbai in February for business and had hoped to leave by March 21. “The Janta Curfew was on March 22, but travellers like me were stopped from commuting even a day earlier. I was asked to move into a hotel,” he said. Diabetic, he took ill at the dormitory and was attended to by a physician. He has almost run out of funds and hopes he can go home soon.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/many-visitors-stranded-in-mumbai-even-after-end-of-quarantine/articleshow/75089813.cms||Nitasha Natu
April 11, 2020||Mumbai||Mumbai: BMC to hire ayahs and ward boys for fight on frontlines||MUMBAI: As the crisis over Covid-19 worsens, the BMC plans to hire ‘ayahs’ and ward boys who will exclusively take care of Covid-19 patients. In exchange for a commitment that they will work in BMC’s Covid-only hospitals, these helpers could earn salaries of up to Rs 56,000 per month plus perks and be part of the permanent cadre. “The demand for ayahs and ward boys has been raised by the civic executive health officer as the number of Covid-19 patients is expected to rise exponentially,” said an official. The job of ‘ayahs’ and ward boys will entail cleaning up after patients, removing waste, providing food and cleaning up the ward, among other duties. They will be trained and provided personal protection equipment for safety against the coronavirus. Almost 70 healthcare workers, including doctors and nurses, have been affected in Mumbai so far. At present, BMC has 114 vacant posts, and these will be filled up. “While those selected will be absorbed into BMC rolls, it will be made clear to them they are being hired on the condition hey will work for Covid-19 patients at present,” said the official. To begin with, these 114 new employees will work in hospitals designated as only-Covid centres: Kasturba Hospital in Chinchpokli, Seven-Hills Hospital in Andheri, HBT Hospital in Jogeshwari, Rajawadi Hospital in Ghatkopar, and Kurla Bhabha Hospital. They will also be posted at quarantine centres that can be converted into isolation centres. (With inputs by Malathy Iyer)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/mumbai-bmc-to-hire-ayahs-and-ward-boys-for-fight-on-frontlines/articleshow/75089810.cms||Clara Lewis
April 11, 2020||India||Lockdown is key? Experts differed in February||NEW DELHI: Lockdown may be considered the most preferred option to check the spread of Covid-19 at this juncture, but scientists at Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) and other key health institutions had in February questioned this approach of China saying the “long-lasting negative impact of such a measure should not be underplayed”. Calling lockdown a “drastic public health measure”, the scientists in their research paper — The 2019 novel coronavirus disease (Covid-19) pandemic: A review of the current evidence — had then suggested community and civil-society led approach to deal with the pandemic. “Instead of coercive topdown quarantine approaches, which are driven by the authorities, community and civil-society-led self-quarantine and self-monitoring could emerge as more sustainable and implementable strategies in a protracted pandemic like Covid-19,” said the paper. Scientists who worked on this review include Pranab Chatterjee, Nazia Nagi, Anup Agarwal, Bhabatosh Das, Sayantan Banerjee, Swarup Sarkar, Nivedita Gupta and Raman R Gangakhedkar. “It has demonstrated the weak preparedness against emerging and reemerging dangerous pathogens across the world,” it said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/lockdown-is-key-experts-differed-in-february/articleshow/75089819.cms||---
April 11, 2020||Nagpur||Cops make sanitizing vehicle, tunnels to stay safe||Nagpur: The city police have developed a sanitizing vehicle by modifying its interior and also built tunnels with sodium hypochlorite sprinklers at police stations to safeguard personnel to fight Covid-19. During its daylong action, police registered 231 offences, including 26 against persons for stepping out without masks. Around 64 people were detained after they were found on the streets without police permission. MIDC police hauled up 16 persons for not wearing masks, while their tehsil counterparts did the same with 10 persons. The traffic department too seized 59 bikes and one car. City police’s motor transport section came up with the idea to install sodium hypochlorite sprinklers inside its vans. After Mumbai and Pune experimented with an electrical device, city police prepared the sprinkling system operated by the vehicle’s battery. The vehicle, labelled as ‘parimarjan vahan’ (cleansing van), was launched by city police chief BK Upadhyay and joint CP Ravindra Kadam in the presence of addl CP (crime) Nilesh Bharne, and DCP (headquarters and traffic) Vikram Sali. Motor transport officer (MTO) Ajit Deshpande said the city’s sanitizing vehicle is different from rest of the state’s in a sense that it is battery operated and made keeping the principle of water and energy conservation in mind. “We will have seven vehicles, including each of five zones, and another for traffic. Each van can operate the sprinklers for 7-8 hours,” said Deshpande. Kadam said the sanitizing vehicle will visit nakabandi and fixed points twice a day where cops can just have a walk inside for cleaning up from possible infection. Following instructions from Upadhyay, city police are now engaged in experimenting with their own concepts to prepare ‘sanitization tunnels’ at their police stations. The team of senior inspector Santosh Khandekar and inspector Ganesh Jamdar at Ajni police station used sprinkler-fitted PVC pipes to erect a tunnel, covered with thick transparent plastics, at the entrance. The pipes are fed with sodium hypochlorite solution and are switch operated. “One can switch on the pump-operated sprinkler before entering and switch it off after coming inside. This system was modelled based on a concept of a cop from Aurangabad but put in place by Jamdar who is an engineer-turned-cop. Dr Sandeep Shinde of the police hospital helped us get supply of the sodium hypochlorite and prepare the solution,” said Khadekar. At Lakadganj police station, senior inspector Narendra Hiware has also erected a floor fan fitted with a drum at the base having sodium hypochlorite solution. As the fan rotates, the sanitizing solution is drawn up to its blades by a pump at the base. The rotating blades sprinkle the solution. Hiware’s Lakadganj police station, under zonal DCP Rahul Makhnikar, conducted a confidence-building route march at the containment zone of Shatranjipura where six persons were found positive for Covid-19. Hiware also made announcements urging people to stay indoors. Similar route marches were led by zonal DCPs Nirmala Devi S and Vinita Shahu. Senior PI SS Kumre of Ganeshpeth police station also took out route march inside the lanes near Agyaram Devi Chowk.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/cops-make-sanitizing-vehicle-tunnels-to-stay-safe/articleshow/75088509.cms||Soumitra Bose
April 11, 2020||Nagpur||HC: Ensure PPEs for docs, nurses at hosps, quarantine wards||Nagpur: The Nagpur bench of Bombay High Court directed the collector and municipal commissioner to ensure personal protection equipment (PPE) was made available to all health workers in sufficient numbers. Many of them were reluctant to treat Covid-19 patients apprehending getting infected while others were doing duty risking their own lives. “PPEs or hazmat (hazardous materials) kit should be made available to the doctors, nursing staff and sanitation workers wherever necessary, especially at the quarantine centres at MLA Hostel and Vanamati,” Justice Atul Chandurkar said. The court’s directives came after amicus curiae Anup Gilda pointed out the PPEs should be supplied to the healthcare workers not only at the quarantine facilities but also at the private medical colleges where such patients are being treated. Earlier, the Indian Council for Medical Research (ICMR) filed an affidavit through National Institute of Research in Reproductive Health director stating it had granted approval to 51 private laboratories to conduct Covid-19 testing and interested parties can apply by filing requisite pro forma. The HC then asked ICMR whether it would now be necessary to approve VRDL facility at Government Medical Colleges and Hospitals (GMCHs) in the region. “ICMR is granted time to take an expeditious decision on approving VRDL at Yavatmal and Chandrapur. In view of present situation, it should consider granting approval expeditiously,” the judge said. The government also informed that various steps had been taken at public undertakings by ensuring thermostat checking of staff members and deployment of medical teams. “Regarding migrant workers stranded at various places, directives were issued to ensure that food is provided through ‘Shivbhojan Thali Yojna’ in the state. Its rate has been reduced to Rs5 for three months to facilitate provision of meals to workers, migrants and homeless persons,” the HC said quoting government affidavit. In reply to HC’s directives on taking care of migrants and poor, the collector informed that 41 shelter homes having a capacity to accommodate 4,990 persons were set up. “About 475 migrant workers have been accommodated at 12 places. The district administration has isolated about thirty people, who reported about their travel history and visit to Nijamuddin Markaz,” the HC noted.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/hc-ensure-ppes-for-docs-nurses-at-hosps-quarantine-wards/articleshow/75088513.cms||Vaibhav Ganjapure
April 11, 2020||Gurgaon||After Delhi and UP, masks a must in Gurugram||GURUGRAM: After Delhi and UP passed orders earlier this week making face masks mandatory for anyone stepping out of home, because of the Covid-19 outbreak, the Haryana government on Friday followed with similar orders for Gurugram and Palwal. At 30, Gurugram has seen fewer cases of Covid-19 than some of its NCR neighbours but nine localities, from where at least one person has tested positive, were sealed on Thursday midnight in a stringent cluster containment exercise. No new cases have been reported from Gurugram, Faridabad, Palwal and Mewat in the past 24 hours. In Palwal, apart from making face masks compulsory for people in public places, the district administration also imposed Section 144.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/gurgaon/after-delhi-and-up-masks-a-must-in-gurugram/articleshow/75089828.cms||---
April 11, 2020||Faridabad||After Delhi and UP, masks a must in Gurugram||GURUGRAM: After Delhi and UP passed orders earlier this week making face masks mandatory for anyone stepping out of home, because of the Covid-19 outbreak, the Haryana government on Friday followed with similar orders for Gurugram and Palwal. At 30, Gurugram has seen fewer cases of Covid-19 than some of its NCR neighbours but nine localities, from where at least one person has tested positive, were sealed on Thursday midnight in a stringent cluster containment exercise. No new cases have been reported from Gurugram, Faridabad, Palwal and Mewat in the past 24 hours. In Palwal, apart from making face masks compulsory for people in public places, the district administration also imposed Section 144.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/faridabad/after-delhi-and-up-masks-a-must-in-gurugram/articleshow/75089846.cms||---
April 11, 2020||Nagpur||Muslims fast indoors after observing Shab-e-Baraat||Nagpur: Many Muslims across the city observed fast on Friday, a day after restricting themselves indoors during Shab-e-Baraat. For many, it was first time in their life that they missed visiting the graves of their forefathers and loved ones on the occasion. Clerics said there was not a single soul on the roads or near the burial grounds on Thursday night. Javed Ansari, president of United Students Association, said community members fully understood the importance of social distancing and no one came out. Kamil Ansari, who is inchage of Mominpura Qabrastan, said as per government and city administration orders all gates were closed for homage which is paid on this night. “Only funerals were allowed on Thursday. We had taken out a march with police in the area asking people to stay indoors. The efforts paid off,” he said. Joint CP Ravindra Kadam extolled the efforts of the senior officials and lauded Muslim community's cooperation for a peaceful Shab-e-Baraat on Thurday. "Our officials had visited the Muslim burial grounds but almost everyone opted to stay inside their houses for their holy prayers instead of stepping out," said Kadam. "The community cooperated with police. We had already engaged with the clerics and other senior members of the community explaining them the gravity of the situation and the community responded well,” said the Joint CP. Senior PI Jayesh Bhandarkar of the Tehsil police station too was content with the community's response while observing the rituals. "We had some inputs that some may visit the shrines that were kept locked but none violated the orders,” he said. On Friday, even those staying at quarantine centres fasted and offered prayers in isolation. At Lonara, the trust running Central India College of Pharmacy provided fruits, milk and snacks to those fasting at dawn and dusk.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/muslims-fast-indoors-after-observing-shab-e-baraat/articleshow/75088519.cms||Soumitra Bose
April 11, 2020||Mumbai||Mumbai stares at a medical crisis with nearly 100 health staffers positive||MUMBAI: At a time when Covid-19 cases are coming thick and fast, the city could be staring at an emergency of another kind—closed hospitals and outof-action nurses. On Friday, another 19 health workers tested positive from hospitals, taking the count of affected medical staff to nearly 100 in Mumbai—likely to be the highest in India. Alarmed by the spread of infection among frontline workers, private hospitals have been asked to urgently provide safety kits, additional remuneration and transport. At Bhatia Hospital, under containment since Wednesday, 14 staffers, including 10 nurses, two doctors and a physiotherapist, tested positive, leading to it being sealed. Two nurses tested positive at Dadar’s Shushrusha Hospital. It has been asked to stop new admissions. Questions over safety protocols in pvt hosps, 900 beds unavailable in SoBo after sealingsShushrusha Hospital in Dadar has been directed to discharge all patients within 48 hours. With major hospitals like Jaslok, Wockhardt and Bhatia shutting operations and Breach Candy running a bare minimum of services, at least 800-900 beds are currently out of circulation in south Mumbai alone. The development has led to questions about safety protocols followed in the hospitals. A civic official said with the right protocols, some infections can be avoided. “Kasturba Hospital, for instance, has not reported any infections among doctors and staffers,” he said. A senior management official of a private hospital said, “A few cases of infections in hospitals were expected since we are actively handling Covid-19 patients. However, the initial shortage of PPEs and bulk infections in some hospitals has made the situation messy”. Two more nurses have tested positive in Breach Candy, which has been running emergency and ICU services with a skeletal staff after 180 of their nurses were placed under quarantine a few days ago. Among the 100 infected healthcare workers, over 60 are nurses, 10 are doctors while the remaining are technicians working in cardiac or pathology labs, and cleaners. The 250-bed Saifee Hospital, which was among the first to face the Covid-19 scare and closure of OTs and diagnostic units, now will only be admitting coronavirus patients. In addition, a dozen other mid-level and small nursing homes across the city have shut operations after patients accidentally tested positive and their staffers had to be quarantined. The Khar Hinduja Hospital too is running minimal services after several of their staffers were placed under quarantine. Those nursing home not hit by the infection are also running to half their strength as many staffers haven’t been able to commute. Commenting on the situation, BMC commissioner Praveen Pardeshi said private hospitals are much needed in these times. “Some patients would prefer to go to private hospitals and many of them are doing a good job in handling Covid-19 patients,” he said, adding that in case a hospital gets infected, there are protocols of testing those and disinfecting the premises completely. “After this is done, the hospital can again start functioning,” he said. Mumbai’s situation is intriguing when compared with several cities and even states. In Delhi, which has reported nearly 800 positive cases, 35 healthcare workers have been infected so far. In Kerala, where the country’s first Covid-19 cases showed up, one doctor with a travel history to Spain, two nurses in Kottayam and one in Ernakulam have tested positive. In Tamil Nadu, five doctors have tested positive besides a lab assistant and PG naturopathy student. A nurse from one of the south Mumbai hospitals said a lot of the blame lies with the hospital management who were caught napping when the cases sprung up. “Despite our pleas, PPEs were reserved for those working in Covid-19 wards. Even those showing symptoms were put on shifts till they were too sick,” said the nurse. A majority of the nurses, hailing from Kerala, share apartments or hostel rooms with 8-12 others, which they believe contributed to the spread. “Most were not quarantined or tested on time,” said a member of the United Nurses Association. At Shushrusha, where two nurses aged 27 and 42 years tested positive, the BMC directed 28 others to be quarantined. “We have advised the hospital to get all the nurses tested at their own cost privately,” said a civic official. The two nurses lived within the hospital premises. Officials said they are likely to have contracted the virus from a doctor, who had tested positive a few days ago. An 83-year-old from N C Kelkar road in Dadar who tested positive was a patient of the same doctor. Incidentally, a 59-year-old Mahim resident who was undergoing dialysis at Sushrusha hospital every alternate day also tested positive on Friday. HCQ reaches docs, nursesA day after TOI reported that many healthcare workers in civic-run hospitals couldn’t get their weekly Tuesday dose of the hydroxychloroquine (HCQ), Sion Hospital authorities said that fresh supplies had arrived on Friday. The preventive medicine is prescribed by the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) for frontline workers against the Covid-19 infection. (Inputs by Sujit Mahamulkar)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/mumbai-stares-at-a-medical-crisis-with-nearly-100-health-staffers-positive/articleshow/75089821.cms||Sumitra Debroy
April 11, 2020||Nagpur||Fearing lockdown extension, trio on 160km cycle trip home||Nagpur: Riding on bicycles, a labourer couple and their co-worker had reached Paoni, 60km from here on NH-7, on way to their native place Kochewani, near Katangi in Balaghat district of Madhya Pradesh. After seeing the news two days ago that the lockdown would be further extended beyond April 14, Raju Hande (29), his wife Mangala (24), and their co-worker Rashid Usman (30) decided to leave for Kochewani, 150km from Nagpur, on Friday. TOI also found a truck on the same highway transporting pulses, and carrying at least 25-30 migrant workers to Uttar Pradesh. Both the incidents reveal that the second phase of mass exodus of labourers from cities has started. “We at 4am from Gittikhadan, where we worked at a civil construction site. We were offered two bicycles by a common friend, David Anna, for whom we worked earlier. We had somehow pulled on, hoping that the lockdown would end on April 14, but with the extension, it is impossible now,” said Hande. On way to Kochewani, the Hande couple, riding doubles, and Usman had made a brief stop at Paoni to have food brought by his father-in-law Yashwantrao Nagpure, who stays at Piparia near the Pench Tiger Reserve (PTR). “Wahabhai Qureshi, the owner of the house where we worked at Gittikhadan, is a driver and his financial health too is not good. But he was kind enough to offer Rs1,000 each before we left. We will stay with our families now in our native place, where we have kids living with their grandmother,” says Hande. Both, Hande and Usman are neighbours in the village and their financial condition is extremely poor. For the last five years both were in Nagpur and used to earn Rs400-500 per day. The duo saved money to fulfil the needs of their families at Kochewani. They also don’t have any farm land to substitute their income. TOI also found a goods carrier loaded with pulses from Kalamna Market in the city, also carrying at least 25-30 labourers between Manegaon and Khawasa on the MP side. The truck was heading towards Banaras. The migrants were seated in the space atop the driver’s cabin and others were seated inside . “I offered these labourers a lift. All were working in Kalamna and belonged to Uttar Pradesh. They wanted to leave earlier during the lockdown but had no alternative. Now that the lockdown is to be extended, they want to return,” said driver Ramsharan Dube. Earlier, many such migrants from other states had left for their native places on foot. As a precautionary step against spread of Covid-19, many were pursued by the police and put in shelter homes and community halls along the way, and are being sheltered and fed there. Nagpur district SP Rakesh Ola was surprised about this movement. “It is impossible these truck carrying labourers went through unchecked from the several check-posts in between. I will check up.” Deolapar API Pravin Borkute says, “The labourers must have left the shelter home at Katta near Deolapar and taken a lift from the truck driver. It is impossible to ferry so many migrants openly, especially when we have check-posts at all major spots along NH-7. The truck will be stopped at the next post.” “Those living in shelters were hopeful that the lockdown would end, but if it is extended many will flee from the shelters,” says Subhash Dahate, a caretaker with a NMC shelter home. RTO officials said, “It is true that under Motor Vehicles Act (MVA), 1988, goods carriage means any vehicle constructed or adapted for solely carrying goods. Ferrying people is in gross violation of traffic rules under Section 184 of the MVA. But due to lockdown there is hardly any movement, barring essential commodities.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/fearing-lockdown-extension-trio-on-160km-cycle-trip-home/articleshow/75088560.cms||Vijay Pinjarkar
April 11, 2020||India||3 Indian firms among 6 to build Covid-19 test kits||NEW DELHI: As India looks to increase its testing capacity, the Union health ministry has given its approval to six firms, including three desi companies, to develop commercial Covid-19 test kits that analyse nasal and throat swabs to arrive at a diagnosis within 24 hours. The firms include three Indian companies — Huwel Lifesciences (Telangana), Kilpest (Madhya Pradesh) and Mylab (Pune) — and two South Korean firms, S D Biosensor and Seegene. A senior government official said that 18 more firms will be named by the end of this week. He added that until now real-time polymerase chain reaction (RT PCR) test kits for diagnosis of Covid-19 were being procured from the US by the Indian Council for Medical Research-National Institute of Virology (ICMR-NIV). They were then distributed to private and government-run testing laboratories. The ICMR and NIV in Pune has completed evaluation of 24 Covid-19 testing kits.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/3-indian-firms-among-6-to-build-covid-19-test-kits/articleshow/75089832.cms||Rohan Dua
April 11, 2020||Chennai||Lockdown in Tamil Nadu may be extended by 2 more weeks||CHENNAI: Chief minister Edappadi K Palaniswami is all set to announce on Saturday the extension of the 21-day lockdown that was slated to end on April 14 in the state. A 19-member medical expert committee that met on Friday recommended to the CM that prohibitory orders be extended by two more weeks. The CM will take part in a video conference with Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Saturday evening. He will later hold a cabinet meet before making a formal announcement on the extension. Chief secretary K Shanmugam said the CM had received inputs from the 12 coordination committees on Thursday and views of various experts. “He held a discussion with experts in epidemiology today (Friday). The common viewpoint of the experts is that all our efforts will be wasted if the prohibitory order is lifted and the virus spread is not contained,” Shanmugam said. Total infections 911, deaths 8; sources in 23 cases unknownThe experts committee had earlier appreciated efforts of the state government in combating Covid-19 and the strong public health system in place for quick detection of cases. “Though efforts have been taken, cases have been increasing. The expert panel felt that lockdown should be extended. This is the recommendation made to the state,” National Institute of Epidemiology deputy director Prabhdeep Kaur told reporters. Arrangements made for patients and their families also came in for praise. The safety of frontline staff, doctors, nurses and paramedics was also discussed. “We have to do a lot of testing in the two weeks of extension and contain the spread. An informed decision could be arrived at when we get good amount of data during that period,” Kaur said. Meanwhile, a 70-year-old woman who tested positive for Covid-19 died at the Thoothukudi Medical College Hospital and 77 more people tested positive for the virus on Friday, chief secretary K Shanmugam said. This took the the total number of cases in the state to 911and fatalities to eight. One of the patients who turned positive on Friday was an administrative staff working in the directorate of medical services. Staff at the DMS and DPH were screened. “He hasn’t been coming to work for ten days now. He was quarantined as he was a contact of a Covid-19 positive patient.” Shanmugam said the state would expand the scope of tests in containment areas. All close contacts of Covid-19 patients will be tested. “So far, we have been testing only family members of positive patients. Their contacts were quarantined. Tests were done only if they showed symptoms. The CM has now told they must be subjected to test as soon as rapid testing kits arrive. Protocols for the kits are now being revised,” he said. “Among people who tested positive today, five had travel history and the others were contacts of Covid-19 patients. All of these people were within the containment zones,” he said. He did not specify how many of these people were from the Tablighi Jamaat cluster. Among the 911infections so far, the state has not been able to track sources for 23 cases.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/lockdown-in-tamil-nadu-may-be-extended-by-2-more-weeks/articleshow/75089830.cms||Julie Mariappan
April 11, 2020||Nagpur||Locals and migrants being ghettoed||Nagpur: Some migrant labourers are being shifted to shelter homes where more from their home state are housed, hinting at a segregation for logistical purposes. Nagpur Municipal Corporation (NMC) has, however, denied segregation as a policy initiative, but says it is open to shift people if they wish to stay with a particular group. Shifting of some local and migrant labourers in shelter camps started in the city, prompting many to believe that authorities are preparing the logistics for ultimately transporting the migrants back to their home state when the lockdown eases or ends completely. Caretaker of one such shelter home said, “Around seven people from my shelter home were taken and shifted to Reshimbagh. These were people from MP and Chattisgarh,” he said. When asked what happened to the vacant beds after shifting the migrants, he said it has been adjusted. “Authorities sent in similar number of people here. All of them are local homeless people. So at this moment, everyone in my shelter home is a Nagpurian,” said the caretaker. NMC commissioner Tukaram Mundhe, however, clarified that there was no segregation going on. “No segregation is taking place, but NMC will allow if anyone wishes to be with any particular group at the shelters,” he said. He also added that welfare of migrants is being taken care of by ensuring that they are not denied their wages by employers. “We are taking details of these people and finding out why they were in the city. If they were working here then their employer’s details will be taken to find out how many of them have continued to pay the salaries. We shall take action if it is found that government guidelines were not being followed,” said Mundhe. The NMC commissioner also ruled out any chance of migrants being transported in the current scenario. “A lockdown means everyone stays where they are,” said Mundhe. Those manning the shelter at Reshimbagh where some migrants have been shifted confirmed that so far only out-of-state people have been brought there. “We have 40 people here so far, including women, and all are from outside of Maharashtra. But we have been told that the shifting here has begun because of not enough capacity at other places. On Friday, we are expecting another 25 persons to be shifted to our community hall which has now been turned into a shelter,” said the caretaker there.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/locals-and-migrants-being-ghettoed/articleshow/75088577.cms||Abhishek Choudhari
April 11, 2020||Kolkata||1 from Kolkata among 12 charter flights to take UK citizens home||Kolkata: The British deputy high commission in India has lined up 12 charter flights from India, including one from Kolkata, to evacuate its citizens and those with long-term UK visa who are currently stranded due to suspension of all flight operations. “I’m delighted that British Airways will operate a special UK charter flight from Kolkata to London via Delhi on April 19. We look forward to getting our people home,” British deputy high commissioner to Kolkata Nick Low said. Incidentally, this will be over a decade and a half that British Airways will fly into Kolkata. Some British citizens had been evacuated from the city in a charter flight on April 5. The flight, organized by German consulate and operated by Air India, had flown down 115 EU citizens from Kolkata and elsewhere in eastern India to Frankfurt via Delhi. Six more evacuation flights had been operated from the rest of India that day. According to the British high commission, over 3,000 British travellers currently stranded in India will be flown back in the 12 charter flights. Bookings were opened on Friday. “We can confirm 12 more charter flights to take British travellers back home... Getting people home as quickly as possible remains our absolute priority,” said British acting high commissioner to India Jan Thompson. UK minister of state for South Asia and the Commonwealth, Lord (Tariq) Ahmad of Wimbledon said: “We are doing all we can to get thousands of British travellers in India home. This is a huge and complex operation, whi- ch also involves working wi- th the Indian government to enable people to move within India to get on these flights. Over 300 people arrived from Goa on Thursday morning, 1,400 more will arrive over the Easter weekend and these 12 flights next week will bring back thousands more.” Meanwhile, a Russian consulate’s attempt to repatriate its citizens has again been delayed. Originally slated for April 8, it was rescheduled to April 11. Kolkata airport officials said the flight has again been postponed and there is no information on when the flight will be scheduled.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/1-from-kolkata-among-12-charter-flights-to-take-uk-citizens-home/articleshow/75089419.cms||---
April 11, 2020||Kolkata||West Bengal: Gunny bag shortage to hit procurers, farmers hard ahead of harvest season||KOLKATA: A scarcity of gunny bags, owing to the closure of jute mills because of the lockdown, could pose a serious problem for farmers as Boro harvesting draws near, even as the shortage has already affected vegetable farmers — not only in Bengal, but across India — who use such bags to transport produce to wholesalers and retailers. Jute bags are the preferred choice of storage because they are environmentally friendly and allow produce to “breathe”. In fact, it is mandatory for the Food Corporation of India (FCI) — the largest procurer of foodgrain and produce — to store supplies in such bags. Bengal supplies 95% of the country’s gunny bags, but production has ground to a halt because of the lockdown. For the period of March-April, there had been orders for 20,000 bales (1 bale = 218kg) of gunny bags from Bengal placed with jute manufacturers, according to industry estimates. The demand would have been similar for the period of April-May, but production has ground to a halt because of the lockdown. “Boro cultivation is on in full swing, and farmers need to harvest their crop in less than a month,” said Subrata Mandal, secretary, Bengal Rice Mills Association. “It is common practice for farmers to use jute bags to store paddy, as they have better breathability than synthetic sacks. So, the non-availability of these bags will create a huge problem for paddy farmers.” Around 220 rice mills in Burdwan (East) resumed work on Wednesday. ”There will be a huge demand for gunny bags when the government starts procuring rice,” said Subrata Mandal, secretary, Bengal Rice Mills Association, adding, “Foodgrains are stored in gunny bags in the FCI’s warehouses. It will be troublesome for the government as well, as they are likely to increase procurement this time.” Raghavendra Gupta, president, of Indian Jute Mills Association, said, “We could operate till March 23 and factories were shut after that because of the Covid-19 crisis.” He added there were regular enquiries about jute bags from other states as well. “We have written to chief minister Mamata Banerjee regarding the issue,” he said. Earlier this week, Punjab CM Amarinder Singh had called up Banerjee, seeking help to regularize supply of jute bags as the packaging of wheat and onion was suffering. Gupta said his association had obtained a go-ahead from the jute commissioner to operate, but needed permission from the state. “Bengal supplies 95% of gunny bags in the country, so the shortage is obvious. We are hoping for some initiative from the government,” he said. There are 72 jute mills in Bengal that supply bags to government and the public distribution scheme. There are more than 2 lakh workers in this industry. Ghanshyam Sarda, chairman of Sarda group that controls a large section of the jute-bag production, said, “If we get permission, the premises will be highly sanitized and social distancing norms will be strictly maintained,” he said. A section of vegetable farmers are also in a fix over the absence of gunny bags. “Farmers are being forced to transport vegetables in large baskets,” said Uttam Mukherjee, chief supervisor, Koley Market. Kartik Saha, a vegetable vendor at Maniktala market, said, “Jute bags ensure longer shelf life for several vegetable.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/gunny-bag-shortage-to-hit-procurers-farmers-hard-ahead-of-harvest-season/articleshow/75089411.cms||Rohit Khanna
April 11, 2020||Ranchi||Two held for siphoning of Rs 53 lakh in name of donations to PM’s relief fund||HAZARIBAG: Two men were arrested on Friday for allegedly siphoning off Rs 53 lakh after duping several people by raising money in the garb of contribution to the Prime Minister’s Relief Fund to fight novel coronavirus. Mohammad Iftekhar and Norul Hassan opened two separate bank accounts at Punjab National Bank and Union Bank of India in Barazabar and Annada College respectively and floated a fake website in the name of PM’s relief fund and raised over Rs 52 lakh, police said. Detecting the fraud, the bank managers lodged FIRs with police. After the complaints were filed, police raided various localities of the town before zeroing in on the duo at Lakhey colony under Hazaribag Mufassil police station limits. SP Mayur Patel said, “In the course of interrogation, they confessed to their crime and named Parmeshwar Sao of Oreya village under Hazaribag Mufassil police station limits as the mastermind. Sao managed to escape when police raided but his car, bank passbooks, ATM cards and other documents were seized. A hunt is on to arrest him soon.” Patel added, Iftekhar and Hassan were produced before the district chief judicial magistrate’s court on Friday. “Iftekhar and Hassan, who are brothers, were sent to judicial remand at Hazaribag Central Jail,” Patel added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/two-held-for-siphoning-of-rs-53l-in-name-of-donations-to-pms-relief-fund/articleshow/75087696.cms||---
April 11, 2020||Ranchi||FIR against local cleric, 17 foreigners with Tablighi links||RANCHI: Police have registered an FIR against 17 foreign members of Tablighi Jamaat and the amir (chief cleric) of Badi Masjid in the city’s Hindpiri area for violations of visa rules, malignancy (Section 269 of IPC) and wilful negligent act. Talking to TOI, Ranchi SSP Anish Gupta said: “We have lodged an FIR against 17 foreign members of Tablighi Jamaat, who stayed in the city’s Hindpiri area on a religious tour, for violating visa rules. A cleric has also been booked for malignancy and harbouring them without providing adequate information about their travel details, which is mandatory.” The FIRs were filed on the basis of the findings of a DSP-rank official assigned to investigate the matter by Gupta soon after the district administration and police shifted the group of foreigners to quarantine from Badi Masjid to on March 29. Hindpiri police station in-charge Radhika Raman Minz said: “The foreigners have been booked for violating visa norms as they failed to report to Foreign Registration Office (FRO) upon their arrival. They have also been charged for violating Section 144 of CrPC, which prohibits assembly of more than four people at a place. The Badi Masjid cleric has been booked for violating the lockdown orders and hosting foreign nationals and concealing information from authorities, which is in direct violation of the lockdown orders and Epidemic Disease Act.” Police sources said more such FIRs will be registered in this connection in due course as investigation progresses against people who might have heled harbouring the foreigners at their residences between March 17 and 29. “Police will act in accordance with the law against anyone found violating the rules,” Gupta said. Meanwhile, 14 of these foreigners and the cleric continue to be in quarantine while three others, including the 22-year-old Malaysian woman who tested positive for Covid-19, her husband and four-year-old son are at Rims.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/fir-against-local-cleric-17-foreigners-with-tablighi-links/articleshow/75088070.cms||Gaurav Pandey
April 11, 2020||Ranchi||Stranded migrants to get psychiatric help in Ramgarh||RAMGARH: More than 450 migrant workers from Uttar Pradesh, Bihar and other states in northern India, stranded in various shelter homes across Ramgarh district due to the lockdown, will soon be offered online psychiatric counselling by experts to prevent them from slipping into depression or developing other mental health ailments. “There are chances that these people, who had to seek refuge at shelter homes on their way home, may develop hypertension and slip into depression,” Ramgarh civil surgeon Dr Neelam Choudhary said. Ramgarh SDO Anant Kumar, the nodal officer of the operations and upkeep of the shelter homes, said most of these migrants worked in Odisha and Telangana. “These labourers were on their way to UP and Bihar when they were intercepted on highways and brought to shelter homes. Despite being provided with accommodation, food, water and other amenities, these workers are anxious and stressed about the well-being of near and dear ones and want to return home soon,” he added. A migrant labourer, staying at a shelter home at Patel Hostel in Ramgarh’s suburbs, said, “It feels like I am in prison. Now we are hearing that the lockdown may be extended. We are stressed and many of us are spending sleepless nights. We all want to reach home as soon as possible.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/stranded-migrants-to-get-psychiatric-help-in-ramgarh/articleshow/75088117.cms||---
April 11, 2020||Chennai||Tamil Nadu: Lightning kills two, leaves one with burns in Tiruvallur||CHENNAI: Lightning killed two people and left another person with severe burns in separate incidents on Thursday in Tiruvallur district, police said. At Madharpakkam, P Vijayan, a 45-year-old shepherd, had taken his goats to a nearby farmland for grazing along with a few others when the incident occurred. Around 4pm, witnesses later told police, a flash of lightning lit up the whole area before they heard Vijayan's cries. All of them rushed to the place only to see Vijayan lying charred. At almost the same time, at a place nearly 5km from where Vijayan died, N Bujjiammal, 48, of Madharpakkam, was struck by lightning and died on the spot, police said. She had gone to a stream flowing through the area to catch fish. In yet another incident, Govindaiah, 65, of Keevalur near Madharpakkam, suffered severe burns on his back after lightning struck him.  A team from the Madharpakkam police station rushed to the spot and sent the two bodies to the government hospital at Ponneri for autopsy. Govindaiah was sent to the Kilpauk Medical College and Hospital. Police have registered separate cases. Separately, in an incident at Wallajahbad near Kancheepuram, at least 20 cattle drowned in a lake after they got stuck in sludge. Before the animals could reach the shore, a sudden downpour increased the level of water in the lake and they drowned, police said. Residents from Thenneri, Alapakkam and other villages who had brought several head of cattle to the lake managed to drive away most of them to safety, but the 20 animals that had gone deep into the water body that was relatively dry until then got stuck. A case has been registered.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/tamil-nadu-lightning-kills-two-leaves-one-with-burns-in-tiruvallur/articleshow/75089838.cms||---
April 11, 2020||India||Prices of key food items stable during lockdown||NEW DELHI: Prices of most of the essential commodities have remained stable, except in Mumbai where tomato and onion prices have increased by nearly 80% and 18-20% respectively during the lockdown period. Official data show that across cities there has been marginal increase in prices of edible oil and pulses during this period. The daily prices of 22 essential commodities, which are monitored by the consumer affairs ministry show that there is hardly any change in retail prices of items such as rice, wheat and flour (atta), sugar, milk and some types of pulses. The data show that price of onion, which was at Rs 39 a kg in Mumbai on March 18, increased to Rs 46 on Friday (April 10). Similarly, the price of tomato has increased from Rs 27 a kg in the country's financial capital to Rs 48 during this period. In the case of Delhi, tomato prices have increased to Rs 33 a kg from Rs 23 during this period and onion prices have been hovering around Rs 35 a kg. In Chennai, prices of potato and tomato have increased by nearly Rs 5 a kg. The price details, however, show there is nearly 15-20% increase in prices of popular pulses such as arhar (tur) and chana dal in Delhi. The trend is similar in Mumbai as well. In Kolkata, there is slight increase in price of chana dal. So far as edible oil is concerned, prices have increased marginally in the case of mustard and soya oil. “How can there is price spike when the consumption is less and there is no bulk consumption at all as restaurants and hotels are shut. Secondly, there are no social functions or celebration. There is no shortage of food items despite the lockdown,” said a consumer affairs ministry official.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/prices-of-key-food-items-stable-during-lockdown/articleshow/75089839.cms||Dipak K Dash
April 11, 2020||Ranchi||More security, drones in Hindpiri after RMC plaint of misbehaviour||Ranchi: RMC’s enforcement officer Sanjeev Kumar on Thursday late evening informed his seniors that two bike-borne miscreants in Hindpiri threw a paper packet, which contained a currency note and a matchbox covered in spit, at civic body personnel when they were discharging their duties in the area. The complaint resulted in heightened security for the civic body’s staff working in the locality and aerial survey through drones. The complaint comes a day after the incident of a few residents spitting on the wind-shield of a vehicle used by health and sanitation workers was ignored as a ‘mistake’. The locals from the area and Anjuman Islamia, a committee of Muslims, said both the allegations are baseless. “During our fogging exercise in Nala Road area on Wednesday, a few people spat on the wind-shield of our vehicle, but we ignored it as a mistake. However, on Thursday evening, when two bike-borne men threw a currency note and a match box wrapped in a paper with spit on it near our office, we reported the matter to our senior officials,” said RMC’s enforcement officer Sanjeev Kumar. Taking cognizance of the matter, Ranchi’s assistant municipal commissioner Rajnish Kumar raised the issue with the district administration and demanded proper security and surveillance in the area so that their cleanliness workers can carry out the sanitization drives. The request was readily accepted by the district administration. Speaking to TOI, Kumar said, “ I have assured them (the ground-level workers) of providing security and have asked them to continue their work. It might have been a misunderstanding or the handiwork of some miscreants, but my staff will continue with their operation as scheduled in the area.” Ranchi SSP Anish Gupta said police have been informed about the incident and he has directed his officials to provide adequate security to RMC teams and also carry out surveillance by drones during cleaning operations. “We have assured the civic body teams of security based on their grievances. However, we are constituting a fact-finding team to verify the incidents and if anyone is found to be disturbing the teams on duty, they will be dealt with as per law,” Gupta said. Seeing a “political motive” behind the allegations, locals and Anjuman Islamia junked them as baseless. “The allegations levelled against residents of Nala Road are completely false and baseless. I have requested the district administration to get it investigated and I assured cooperation to all sanitation and health workers on behalf of the community,” said Anjuman Islamia’s Ranchi chapter secretary Mokhtar Ahmed. Ward councillor Sajda Khatoon, who is also a resident of Nala Road, said, “I completely reject the allegations made by the enforcement team and if something like that had happened, why didn’t they inform me? I would have been the first person to initiate action against them (miscreants).”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/more-security-drones-in-hindpiri-after-rmc-plaint-of-misbehaviour/articleshow/75088091.cms||Gaurav Pandey
April 11, 2020||Thane||No social distancing? Thane markets, Panvel APMC to stay shut till Tuesday||MUMBAI/THANE: As people continue to violate the lockdown order and social-distancing rule, the Thane district administration ordered that all wholesale and retail fruit and vegetable markets in the district will remain shut till April 14. But online transactions, where there is a direct doorstep delivery of products, will be allowed, said Thane collector Rajesh Narvekar. The administration has also put the onus of crowd management at wholesale grocery and grain shops on the owners and warned of stern action, including losing licence, if more than four people are spotted within their premises. The Raigad district sub-registrar of cooperative societies has also ordered closure of the Panvel APMC from Friday midnight toApril 14 due to failure in crowd management. Meanwhile, in total disregard for the social-distancing norm, more than 200 people stood outside the D’Mart outlet on Mulund-Goregaon Link Road at 7am on Friday, due to the APMC shutdown scare. The number swelled to over 1,500 within an hour. “The queues went up to Sonapur signal which is near Mulund-Bhandup border,” said Mulund MLA Mihir Kotecha, who armed with a microphone appealed to citizens to maintain onearm distance, but in vain. Ravi Nair, a businessman from Bhandup Village Road, told TOI: “Everyone was standing so close to each other that I decided to go home.” Vegetable and fruits markets witnessed similar scenes. But in some places, like the D’Mart in Kandivli (W), people stood in line by maintaining proper distance, said a local. But at a few places like Ghatkopar and Vile Parle, the authorities have found a solution to this problem.Early this week, the vegetable market near Vile Parle (E) railway station was shut down and vendors moved to an open ground opposite Gujarat Society. The expansive ground has three rows of vendors along its length, allowing them to maintain a distance of over 10ft from each other. “At the new location, the market is open in the mornings and evenings. There is no crowding,” said a local. On Thursday morning, at Mulund (W), several residents stepped out to buy fruits and vegetables from roadside hawkers. While most of them had donned a mask, norms of social distancing were not being followed. The police and BMC have taken cognisance of such cases, like not allowing vegetable vendors and roadside sellers to operate in D ward—Tardeo, Girgaum, Walkeshwar, Malabar Hill, Altamont Road-—from Thursday for not observing social-distancing norms. (Inputs from Vinamrata Borwankar & B B Nayak)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/thane/no-social-distancing-thane-markets-panvel-apmc-to-stay-shut-till-tuesday/articleshow/75089841.cms||Somit Sen
April 11, 2020||India||‘Isolate elderly if outbreak worsens’||NEW DELHI: Scientists with the Indian Council of Medical Research said they were looking at a strategy to isolate elderly people with co-morbidity health conditions in order to protect them should the outbreak progress to the “community transmission” stage in India. Two scientists working with ICMR told TOI that in keeping with the WHO’s suggestion, a strategy was being worked out to protect aged people. People aged over 60 have been found to be more susceptible to the infection. “ICMR is seriously considering the option of isolating elderly people with co-morbidity to protect them from contracting Covid-19,” a senior virologist said. “It is now clear that elders are vulnerable to the disease, especially senior citizens with co-morbidity conditions,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/isolate-elderly-if-outbreak-worsens/articleshow/75089850.cms||Shreyas HS
April 11, 2020||Delhi||123 teams screened 15,000 to halt spread in Delhi's Dilshad Garden||DELHI: After seven people tested positive in northeast Delhi's Dilshad Garden in March following the return of a woman from Saudi Arabia with Covid-19, a SHIELD - sealing, home quarantine, isolation and tracking, essential supplies, sanitation and door-to-door checking - was put in place in the area by Delhi government. Thousands of people, mostly those who had come in with suspected or positive cases, were quarantined as a part of the strategy. "I feared a massive outbreak at Dilshad Garden but the hard work of health officials and the successful implementation of the Operation Shield has made the area coronavirus-free," said health minister Satyendar Jain. It all began with a 38-year-old woman - and her 19-year-old son - returning to Delhi from Saudi Arabia after meeting her husband on March 10. On March 12, she developed fever and cough and went to a local doctor. On March 15, the woman was taken to Guru Tegh Bahadur Hospital where the doctors referred her to Ram Manohar Lohia Hospital. On March 17, she tested positive, and by next day, the officials had determined that she had met about 81 people after returning from Saudi Arabia. Her brother and mother tested positive on March 20 and her two daughters on March 21. The day after the doctor who had first attended to her also tested positive. The government then turned Dilshad Garden into a containment zone. Footage from CCTV cameras was scanned to establish the movement of people. "When the woman tested positive for Covid-19, we rushed to her house to get names and addresses of people who had visited them since March 10, the date of her return. Since her son was not very cooperative, we had to seek the help of the local police to get information," said Dr SK Nayak, district administration officer of Shahdara. Out of the 11 points that lead to Sector L of Dilshad Garden, which reported most cases, nine were sealed with police barricades and neither vehicles, nor pedestrians were allowed to go in. The authorities also used megaphones to inform the residents about the situation and urged them to come out if they had met anyone from the family. "Each of the 123 medical teams surveyed around 50 homes and asked a set of questions. Any person who had met the family was quarantined or shifted to Guru Teg Bahadur Hospital for treatment and testing. Along with this, an action plan was prepared with the help of the Shahadra DM," said the government in a statement. "We are still tracking people in the area, and if symptoms are noticed, they are being quarantined. The government will also start random testing of the residents soon. Not a single positive case has been reported from the area for over 10 days now," said Dr Nayak. Delhi government has now extended the operation to all containment zones which have been created to check the spread of coronavirus. In all these areas, the exercise is being replicated.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/123-teams-screened-15000-to-halt-spread-in-delhis-dilshad-garden/articleshow/75089852.cms||AlokKNMishra
April 11, 2020||Mumbai||Three weeks on, daily essentials fast turning into luxuries in Mumbai||MUMBAI: Three weeks into the lockdown, the availability of essential items appears to have worsened although it should have streamlined by now. Bleary-eyed Mumbaikars are being forced to step out for shopping at dawn to ensure they procure their daily quota of milk, bread and vegetables. With police reinforcing the limited hour functioning and the wholesale APMC market planning to close, the weekend could see supplies being hit further. Grocery and vegetable shops in various markets downed shutters on Friday. A Parel resident drove to half a dozen stores in Dadar, Parel and Byculla only to return home disappointed. “There was no edible oil, dal or rice. Virtually empty shelves,” he lamented. Provision stores are visibly empty as demand outstrips supply. Replenishments are slow to trickle in, both from manufacturers’ godowns and wholesalers to retailers. As a result, basic essentials like bread, poha, biscuits, noodles, soap, chicken, frozen meat, ready-to-eat food, toothpaste, shaving cream and even cleaning liquid are all in short supply. Caretakers of bedridden patients found adult diapers missing from the shelves in the Tardeo-Mahalakshmi belt.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/three-weeks-on-daily-essentials-fast-turning-into-luxuries-in-mumbai/articleshow/75089867.cms||---
April 11, 2020||Chennai||Chennai: Beware! Covid-19 churn throws up phishing racket||CHENNAI: Criminals see an opportunity even in the Covid-19 pandemic. The moratorium on EMIs offered by banks has spawned a whole new phishing racket with scamsters posing as bank executives and calling up the unsuspecting . Banks have been sending out alerts that their staff will not ask for customers CVV, PIN or IPIN numbers, but the danger remains. According to cyber crime police the ‘bank executives’ ask for debit card details and OTP through a mobile app, Quick Support. Once the Quick Support app is downloaded, the fraudsters call customers to enter the last 6 digits of their debit or credit cards, and CVV, ATM PIN and OTP. Subsequently, money is debited fraudulently from the account. Another trick is to convince the targets to download screensharing apps to their cell phones and grant access to fraudsters. “After installing the app, as soon as they see the victims logging into their netbanking accounts, stealing the PIN and hacking the account becomes very easy for them,” said a cyber crime official. Cyber crime officials have appealed to the public not to attend calls coming from the number 8388903115 and to not share bank details. They have warned people against installing screen sharing apps such as QuickSupport, Anydesk and TeamViewer. A basic thing people should understand is that none of the bank executives will ask for the PIN number or to install apps, said a cyber crime officer. Another Covid crime is the floating of fake accounts seeking monetary contributions to the PM’s or CM’s relief fund. “When you call up the number mentioned in the advertisement on whatsapp, people respond as if it is for genuine purpose, but none of us knows whether it reaches the government,” the cyber crime official added. Chennai city police receive about 40 to 50 complaints online every day since the lockdown began, compared to 20 to 25 complaints before lockdown.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/chennai-beware-covid-19-churn-throws-up-phishing-racket/articleshow/75089856.cms||---
April 11, 2020||Hyderabad||Covid-19 fear claims new mom's life as 10 Hyderabad hospitals turn her away||HYDERABAD: Instead of Covid-19, growing alarm over the pandemic may have claimed the life of a 22-year-old woman who had given birth to a healthy baby boy just days ago. Rafiya Begum had become a mother at a hospital in Hyderabad on April 2. She developed severe lung infection on April 6 and was discharged from the private hospital she was admitted in on April 8. The woman and her husband visited at least 10 hospitals, including the nodal Covid-19 facility Gandhi Hospital, but none admitted her. At the end of the day, she passed away. While Rafiya tested negative for Covid-19 on Friday after swab samples were taken from her lifeless body, her nine-day-old child, husband and relatives were sent to a government quarantine centre at Rajendranagar. Husband Mohammed Sohail is a bike mechanic from Nagaram near Keesara in the east of Hyderabad. He does not have any travel history. He also has not come in contact with any coronavirus positive patient. But sources in the state health department say the doctors assumed Rafiya had contracted the virus after she came to them with cough and breathlessness. Her tragic tale began after she was admitted to a private hospital at Rampally crossroads in Nagaram where she delivered a baby boy. After four days, she developed post-operative complications. Sick woman was made to run from one hospital to anotherAs she had cough and breathlessness, the doctors asked her family to take her to Gandhi Hospital in Secunderabad, a good 20-plus kilometres away, suspecting novel coronavirus infection. Before going to Gandhi Hospital, a CT scan was done at a private hospital, which indicated damage to her lungs, causing heart-related problems. Sohail told TOI, “All the hospitals denied treatment suspecting that Rafiya was Covid-positive and all of them referred us to Gandhi Hospital. But Gandhi authorities said they would take only positive cases,” Sohail said. He said after the Nagaram private hospital discharged Rafiya at 10 am on April 8, they had gone to Gandhi Hospital four times, Osmania General Hospital twice, King Koti Hospital and seven private hospitals in Secunderabad, Minister’s Road, Hyderguda and Mehdipatnam till 9.30 pm. “Finally, we gatecrashed into OGH when her condition became critical. She breathed her last in OGH within half an hour while undergoing treatment,” Sohail said, crying inconsolably. The family’s problems did not stop there. Worried that the family might have contracted the coronavirus, doctors at OGH collected their swab samples and sent them to the laboratory. Sohail along with his mother-in law Sultana Begum, mother Akthar Begum and the days-old infant were sent to the NIRD quarantine centre in Rajendranagar. Immediately after sending them to quarantine, health and municipal authorities sanitised the entire area where Sohail resides. Rafiya’s last rites were not allowed to be performed as the doctors waited for the Covid-19 test results. Official sources confirmed that the test results came on Friday and they were negative. “Police were told to bring Sohail and family members from quarantine to hand over Rafiya’s body to them for performing the last rites,” a senior official of the health department said. Health department officials, including director of health, were not available for comment.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/covid-fear-claims-new-moms-life-as-10-hyderabad-hospitals-turn-her-away/articleshow/75089872.cms||Koride Mahesh
April 11, 2020||Pune||Pune: Seven booked for going out sans masks||PUNE: The Pimpri Chinchwad police on Thursday booked seven men for venturing out without covering their faces with masks in the cluster-containment zone of Chikhali. The police said all seven men, associated with the supply of essential commodities, were on the roads in the Kudlewadi area. "Though they had valid reasons for venturing out, we acted against them for the violation the mandatory order of wearing masks," senior inspector Satish Mane of the Chikhali police told TOI. The authorities on Wednesday had made it compulsory to wear face masks in Pune when in public areas. On Friday, joint commissioner of police Ravindra Shisve and assistant commissioner of police Ashok Morale distributed masks among families of personnel staying at the Swargate and Somwar Peth police colonies.The officers also sensitized the residents about coronavirus and the importance of social distancing. Shisve distributed onions and potatoes among the residents.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/pune-seven-booked-for-going-out-sans-masks/articleshow/75089875.cms||---
April 11, 2020||Business||NBFCs risk not repaying Rs 1.75 lakh crore||MUMBAI: Debt worth Rs 1.75 lakh crore, maturing by June 2020, may be at risk of not being paid if the RBI does not move quickly to clarify that the moratorium package available to banks should be extended to non-banking finance companies (NBFCs) also. Two credit rating agencies — Crisil and Acuite — have raised red flags. They point out that for NBFCs, which now mostly depend on bank funding with other channels nearly non-operational, may find the going extremely tough if the moratorium benefits are not extended to these lenders as well. Currently, mutual funds are not buying NBFC papers as they are facing redemption pressure. Additionally, the RBI’s special window for targeted long-term repo operations (TLTROs) are crowded with government and corporates also joining in to get money. This, in effect, is crowding out the lower rated NBFCs from availing of the facility. In such a situation, NBFCs have to give moratorium to their borrowers without having a similar recourse from banks or availability of alternate easy funding routes, industry players said. The report by Crisil pointed out that according to its estimates, if no moratorium on bank debt is extended, 11% of NBFCs don’t even have one-time liquidity cover for total debt repayments up to May 31, 2020. A liquidity cover of less than one time indicates inability to make debt repayments according to schedule and in full without the benefit of collections, external support, or access to additional credit lines or funding. And if business disruptions continue to June 30, 2020, then about 25% of NBFCs will have a liquidity cover of less than 1, with debt obligations aggregating to Rs 1.75 lakh crore. Another report, by Acuite, noted that the immediate implication for the retail NBFCs is the lack of clarity on their debt-servicing ability in the near term. “With collections coming to a standstill…the primary cash flows of the NBFCs have been completely disrupted. While we can presume that most banks will provide back-to-back moratorium, there is no indication that it will be applicable for the non-bank lenders or investors unless there are specific bilateral arrangements. This implies that the bond holders, CP investors and also the FD holders in all likelihood, will insist on maintaining the existing repayment schedule,” the report said. In addition to extending back-to-back moratorium to NBFCs by banks, the RBI could also open a special LTRO facility where only those NBFCs could participate that have ratings of AA or lower. This would ensure that the ones which need money the most could also get it, industry players said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/nbfcs-risk-not-repaying-rs-1-75-lakh-crore/articleshow/75089889.cms||Partha Sinha
April 11, 2020||Chennai||8 firms offer to supply PPE kits to Tamil Nadu||CHENNAI: At least eight firms have offered to manufacture anti-Covid protective gear and supply it to the Tamil Nadu government in its battle against the pandemic. The small and medium companies have made commitments to the government to manufacture Covid-19 masks, test kits, PPE kits and invasive ventilators after the April 2 incentive package was announced.  "At least eight companies have shown interest in collaborating to manufacture ventilators, N95 masks and other equipment to fight Covid-19," a senior industries department official told TOI on the condition of anonymity. They include Air Liquide and Hyundai (for manufacture of Invasive Ventillators), Imaging Technologies and Nissan (Invasive Ventillator), Trivitron Healthcare (Covid Test kits and PPE kits), Kiritcare (Ventilators), Venus (N95 masks), Sri Rajarajeshwari Healthcare and Sri Healthcare (Pharma).  Some of these companies are already in the business of manufacturing medical equipment. With the government's offer of an incentive package, these firms came forward to manufacture the anti-Covid protective gear. "The package will apply to companies which manufacture ventilators, personal protective equipment (PPE) kits, N95 masks, multi para monitors and anti-malarial and anti-viral drugs," said the official. "Air Liquide will get support from Hyundai to manufacture ventilators and multi para monitors and kits to screen people," said the official.  The incentive package includes 30% capital subsidy subject to a ceiling of Rs 20 crore, which will be disbursed in five instalments. "Investors may commence manufacturing of the Covid gear and equipment without any prior approval as mandated by state laws, including approval from DTCP. SIPCOT and SIDCO have been advised to provide land on short term or long term leases on priority basis," said the official.  The companies will get 100% stamp duty waiver and 6% interest subvention (government will pay the interest on working capital loans of the companies) will be provided for two quarters ending December 31, 2020.  "We have agreed to purchase not less than 50% of the equipment manufactured by the companies between May and June this year. Tamil Nadu Medical Services Corporation will purchase the equipment," said the official.  The package will be implemented by SIPCOT for large industries and IC&DIC for MSMEs. Guidance Tamil Nadu for large industries and MSME Trade and Investment Promotion Bureau for MSMEs will provide the necessary guidance and facilitation including single window clearance, the official said.  As there is huge demand for masks and other equipment in other states as well, the government has directed the companies to start manufacture immediately. "Two companies based in Tirupur and Coimbatore have shown interest. These companies are already in the business and will have to increase their production. So, we are confident of getting more anti-Covid 19 equipment by month-end," said the official.  The department has also opened a registry with names of companies in the state that manufacture such equipment.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/8-firms-offer-to-supply-ppe-kits-to-tamil-nadu/articleshow/75089933.cms||B Sivakumar
April 11, 2020||Business||Retailers put limits on purchase of essentials||BENGALURU: With shortages across products, many large retail chains across the country are putting restrictions on how much a customer can purchase at a time to prevent people from hoarding essential items. Future Retail, which runs Nilgiris and Easyday stores, said it was regulating quantities per bill to ensure essential items are consistently available to all customers. Such items include rice, flour, pulses, oil, butter and biscuits, which have been flying off the shelves and are taking longer to replenish. A customer is only allowed to buy two packets of 10 kg flour or four packets of 5 kg flour, five packets of Amul butter, weighing 100 gm each. For any type of dal, chana, tur or moong, the ceiling is set at 5 kg. “We have empowered our store managers to make changes on this based on the demand in their locality,” said a Future Retail spokesperson. Coronavirus outbreak: Live updatesSpencer’s Retail and Nature’s Basket managing director Devendra Chawla said such measures have been adopted to ensure no customer is deprived at a time when the backend supply chain is fragile. Transportation of products remains challenging and thousands of labourers have moved back to their towns and villages after the lockdown was imposed two weeks ago, affecting production at factories. More on Covid-19Coronavirus pandemic: Complete Coverage21-day lockdown: What will stay open and what won'tHow to quarantine yourself at homeTrust the newspaper for your daily verified news“We have set limits for the purchase of certain items such as butter, rice and atta. For example, a customer can buy two packs of butter of 100 gm each,” said Chawla. TOI reported in its Friday edition that there is an acute shortage of staples like rice, atta, dal and dry packaged foods like instant noodles, biscuits and snacks, in many retail and kirana stores across the country. Some retailers like More have not imposed curbs but are requesting customers to not resort to panic-buying. DMart did not comment but has requested customers not to overstock items and shop only as per normal household needs. More Retail CEO and deputy managing director Mohit Kampani said they have told customers that whatever they get, will continue to be available. “It is not that a certain category is vanishing from the shelves. If we have put tea, there will be tea, though not necessarily from all the brands. The additional buy is due to the increased consumption by staying at home. Also, people are looking to lessen the number of trips to the stores,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/retailers-put-limits-on-purchase-of-essentials/articleshow/75089947.cms||Avik Das
April 11, 2020||Bengaluru||Bengaluru: Infant slips from grandpa’s arms, dies||BENGALURU: A six-month-old girl died after she accidentally slipped from her grandfather arms while he was climbing the stairs leading to the second-floor terrace of their house at Maruthi Layout near Rajajinagar. Software engineers Priyanka and Vinay were cleaning their house on the first floor on Friday, 9am. The couple asked Vinay’s father to take their infant, Anvi, to the terrace as they did not want the child to be troubled by the dust. Anvi’s 66-year-old grandpa picked up the child and began walking up stairs to go to the terrace. The child, however, stretched and fell off his arms, hitting the ground. The parents rushed the baby to a private hospital, which referred her to another hospital due to non-availability of an ICU bed. The child died en route to the second hospital.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/bengaluru-infant-slips-from-grandpas-arms-dies/articleshow/75089960.cms||---
April 11, 2020||Business||Reinsurers’ policies not to cover pandemics||MUMBAI: Most Indian organisers, like the Indian Premier League (IPL), missed out on a pandemic cover for events because the markets started shutting down soon after the outbreak in China. While no one can now buy a pandemic cover since the event has already occurred, international insurers are beginning to exclude coronavirus even from liability covers like Directors & Officers (D&O) policies, which protect managements from being sued. In India, the focus of event cancellation has been largely around weather and terrorist attacks. Given that the country was not impacted by the Swine Flu pandemic or any other outbreaks, no one really sought such a cover. According to insurance broker Howden India’s MD Amit Agarwal, large event insurance covers are customised and — either specifically or silently — exclude a pandemic. A silent exclusion is one where the intent of the policy is to cover certain known risks like weather.  “Once the event has occurred, no one will be able to buy pandemic cover. What we are now seeing is that reinsurers are specifically excluding pandemic risks from liability covers like D&O policies,” he said. What this means is that if any of the stakeholders sue the management of a company for any reason that is triggered by the virus, the policy will not cover the defence. “As of now, there are no covers for businesses that cover pandemic outbreaks,” said Subrata Mondal, executive vice-president (underwriting) at IFFCO Tokio General Insurance. “By and large, a lot of reinsurers are excluding pandemic outbreaks across all lines, including liability lines,” he added. According to Mondal, since liability insurance covers are driven by reinsurance, most of these policies are issued more or less on the reinsurer’s terms. Also, unlike motor insurance covers that are a standard document, these policies are more like a bi-partite agreement. While there are no covers for business risks, companies can still look forward to providing protection to their employees. “Employers can look at providing some kind of a Covid cover similar to what the government has done for healthcare workers across the country,” said Agarwal. Several companies are directly selling Covid-19 protection covers to individuals. Reliance General Insurance is offering a group insurance cover that offers the sum insured in the event the policyholder is tested positive for Covid-19. This cover has been purchased by Paytm and Yes Bank for customers who choose to be part of the scheme for a premium. E-tailer Flipkart has partnered two insurers ICICI Lombard and Digit Insurance. Digit Illness Group Insurance offered by Digit Insurance allows consumers to avail a hospitalisation cover up to a sum assured of Rs 1 lakh with an annual premium of Rs 511. Covid-19 Protection Cover by ICICI Lombard provides an instant Rs 25,000 benefit plan paid to the customer on positive diagnosis of Covid-19. It is affordably priced at an annual premium of Rs 159. There have been reports of how the All England Lawn Tennis & Croquet Club will recover 114 million pounds of its losses caused by the cancellation of Wimbledon 2020 as it has been continuously purchasing a pandemic cover after the SARS outbreak in 2003. The exposure of organisers, team owners and broadcasters to the IPL is much higher.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/reinsurers-policies-not-to-cover-pandemics/articleshow/75089961.cms||Mayur Shetty
April 11, 2020||Business||UK fintech company ClearScore to shut India operations||MUMBAI: UK-based fintech company ClearScore has said it will shut its India business effective April 13, within a year of starting operations, due to the financial impact of the Covid-19 pandemic. This could be the first instance of a fintech company shutting down due to the coronavirus. ClearScore India was launched in September 2019 and offered a suite of services that allowed users to check their credit score for free, compare pre-approved credit offers and obtain loans and credit cards online instantly. Speaking to TOI, Clear-Score country manager (India) Hrushikesh Mehta said the uncertainty due to the pandemic forced them to take the decision to shut operations. According to Mehta, the business made money whenever a customer availed a loan using its platform. The lockdown meant lender partners couldn’t staff their call centres and new loans dried up. The Indian arm, run by a team of six, serviced 16 lakh users. “Three weeks ago, we were very optimistic. And then the UK started locking down, India as well, and lenders started pulling out. In a week, we were barely making any money,” Mehta said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/uk-fintech-co-clearscore-to-shut-india-operations/articleshow/75089966.cms||Aseem Gujar
April 11, 2020||Bengaluru||Sanitiser production goes up in Karnataka||BENGALURU: The production of hand sanitisers in Karnataka has jumped from just 2,000 litres per day to 50,000 litres. But the massive demand triggered by the outbreak of coronavirus continues to outstrip supply. According to officials of the state drugs control department, the current daily demand stands at 2 lakh litres. In the initial days of the Covid-19 crisis, the demand was about 5 lakh litres per day. The production in Karnataka increased after the BS Yediyurappa government issued licences to 37 distilleries to produce the hand rub to offset losses resulting from the 21-day nationwide lockdown. These licences have a limited validity. Currently, 95 entities are manufacturing it in the state, up from just 11 before coronavirus. “The decision to grant licences was a godsend for the liquor industry, which was staring at huge losses. We are also doing our bit to support the government in its efforts to check the spread of the virus,” said Ashik B Shamanur, executive director, Shamanur Sugar, a major liquor manufacturer. Shamnur Sugar, along with its sister concern Shamanur Pharma, now produces at least 2,000 litres of hand sanitiser a day, and Ashik said the units were looking to scale up production to 6,000 litres per day. The company is marketing hand rub in various packs, from 100-ml sachets to 10-litre bottles. Sales of the product account for 15% of its current revenue. “We have been able to engage 50 per cent of our employees, who would otherwise have been jobless because of the lockdown,” Ashik said. The company is also supplying free hand sanitisers as part of its corporate social responsibility, or CSR. Rakshit Neelakanta Jagadale, executive director of Amrut Distilleries Pvt Ltd, said his company had contributed over 2,000 litres under CSR. “It’s a great opportunity to serve society. So far, our members have supplied about 28,000 litres through CSR initiatives,” said Shivalingaiah of the Karnataka Breweries and Distilleries Association. Additional drug controller Amaresh Tumbagi said it was a win-win situation for the government and distillers. “We need more quantities of hand sanitiser and they need business to tide over huge losses,” Tumbagi said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/sanitiser-production-goes-up-in-karnataka/articleshow/75089972.cms||B V Shiva Shankar
April 11, 2020||Business||NBFCs seek to reopen partially in lockdown||MUMBAI: With uncertainty over the lockdown being lifted next week, finance companies have written to the home affairs ministry for permission to remain partially open amid the lockdown to cater to the rising financial requirements of a larger segment of lower- and middle-income customers. The Finance Industry Development Council (FIDC) pointed out that banks are working for some hours with limited resources while the funding requirements are growing at a rapid pace. In the finance sector, the government has allowed banks, insurance companies, and stock market intermediaries to continue to function during the Covid-19 lockdown. “NBFC customers are primarily small truck or commercial or passenger vehicle operators who visit our branches for paying loan EMIs in cash,” said Mahesh Thakkar, director-general, FIDC, in the letter. He added they could operate with 30% staff while maintaining social distancing. NBFCs are facing pressure on multiple fronts. Their operations are hit because of the lockdown. They are not able to recover from their borrowers as they have extended a threemonth moratorium to creditors in line with RBI’s circular. However, banks are excluding finance companies from the three-month moratorium till end of May, which they are allowing for all other borrowers. Ratings agency Crisil has described this as a “double whammy” for finance companies and issued a credit alert for the sector. “Given the challenges in access to fresh funding, and presuming nil collections, Crisil’s study underscores that a number of NBFCs will face liquidity challenges if they do not get a moratorium on servicing their own bank loans and are forced to meet all debt obligations on time,” said Krishnan Sitaraman, senior director, Crisil. The Indian Banks Association, justifying the exclusion of finance companies from a moratorium, said that a Rs 1-lakhcrore facility is available through RBI’s targeted long-term repo operations (TLTRO) window. The TLTRO facility allows banks to refinance debt including those to finance companies. “However, only half of that is earmarked for primary issuances,” Crisil said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/nbfcs-seek-to-reopen-partially-in-lockdown/articleshow/75089970.cms||Mayur Shetty
