April 12, 2020||Bengaluru||Lockdown anxiety eating away at to-be-parents||The coronavirus pandemic and the subsequent lockdown couldn’t have come at a worse time for 33-year-old Divya G, who is full-term pregnant and due any day now. "Of course, I am worried about my baby catching the virus. I am being extra cautious and not only following advice from my obstetrician to the T, but also ensuring social distancing in my house as well. Despite all that, I have to admit, the anxiety does get to me," she says. TV actor Skanda Ashok understands Divya’s worries, given that his wife is six-months pregnant and currently managing without routine check-ups, while staying indoors to be safe. “The uncertainty of the situation is stressful for both of us. There’s the fear of the pandemic and the fact that none of u know how long it will last and the magnitude of its effect on us,” he says. Skanda and Divya are only a few among a large number of to-be-parents who are struggling with the limitations of the lockdown and fear for the safety of their unborn children. There’s an increased demand for caesarian section birthsAmid all the pandemonium surrounding the pandemic, medical experts say that there has been an increased demand for elective caesarian sections. "A lot of pregnant women have been requesting early C-sections, because they are scared of inadvertently contracting the coronavirus and passing it on to their unborn kids. For some reason, they think they can protect their children better once born. My advice has been to wait till they are full term, 39-40 weeks, as a baby is any day safer in the womb than outside," says gynaecologist Dr Swarnalatha S. No nanny’s availableIt’s standard practice in most households to hire external help for post-natal care, including herbal oil baths for mom and child. "We had found a nanny to help me after the delivery, including the oil massages for both mom and baby and other needs of the child, but with the lockdown, I am not sure if she will be able to come anytime soon,” says Divya. Limited post-delivery careAdding to Divya’s woes is the fact that new mothers are being sent home as soon as possible after delivery. Dr Swarnalatha explains, "Yes, new mothers being sent home within 24 hours of delivery to avoid infections. Many are still processing these sudden changes. Normally, we would have kept them for a few days, depending on the type of delivery, which also allowed us enough time to help them understand the needs of the newborn. But these are extraordinary times, and we cannot afford those luxuries. Even routine scans and consultations have been halted for women in earlier stages of pregnancy.” Home remedies to boost a pregnant mother's immunitySpice drinkTake 3-4 cups of water in a saucepan and add a teaspoon each of cumin seeds, coriander seeds and crushed pepper. To this, add some turmeric and three cubes of ginger chunks. Bring the mixture to a boil. Let cool. Strain and drink. Neem flower drink Boil neem flowers in a pan with three cups of water. Turn off the flame and let it cool. Add lemon juice and a teaspoon of honey and drink.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/lockdown-anxiety-eating-away-at-to-be-parents/articleshow/75100720.cms||Joyeeta Chakravorty
April 12, 2020||Goa||Brandon is India’s best player in midfield: Bhutia||Panaji:Bhaichung Bhutia didn’t have to think twice before handpicking Brandon Fernandes as India’s best midfielder at the moment. Answering a few questions on a social media platform, Bhutia was asked to select his best striker and best Indian midfielder. The striker’s choice was obvious with Sunil Chhetri now in a league of his own. But despite having plenty to choose from in midfield, Bhutia was certain that he didn’t have to look beyond FC Goa’s brilliant winger. “The midfielder who has really impressed me this year is Brandon Fernandes from FC Goa. He has really done well for FC Goa. The way he controlled the midfield for FC Goa and linked up with the strikers has been fantastic. He is also now playing for the national team,” said Bhutia. Bhutia, 43, was the first Indian footballer to have played 100 international matches and is rated among the best players the country has produced. He watched the Indian Super League (ISL) keenly and it’s not difficult to understand why Brandon impressed him the most. With FC Goa, Brandon was an automatic starter on the left of midfield. The winger is comfortable on the right too and made a name for himself during his early days as a perfect No 10. This season he has been really impressive for FC Goa. He missed two matches this season and his team lost both games, against ATK away and Chennaiyin FC in the first leg semifinal. His presence gives FC Goa a huge edge with many coaches in awe of his abilities with the ball at his feet. Meanwhile, Bhutia felt that young entrepreneurs from the northeast can contribute a lot for the development of football in the region. "By sponsoring the clubs in this region, by supporting the local players and giving them some equipment in terms of football training shoes, balls and others in whatever capacity they can do. "So, entrepreneurs in northeast, especially young ones, can really do a lot because just like cricket is to other parts of the country, football is the sport in the northeast,” said Bhutia.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/brandon-is-indias-best-player-in-midfield-bhutia/articleshow/75102147.cms||---
April 12, 2020||Goa||Boxers sweat it out at home||Panaji: Just like the rest of the world, Goan boxers are suffering. But while many have seen their world come to a standstill, the boxers are moving forward, quite literally. Even while they are confined to their homes, nothing can slow them down. A dozen-odd state boxers are doing their daily drills for the last three weeks and sharing videos with Goa Boxing Association vice president Lenny D’Gama. They receive valuable feedback from the veteran administrator, also chairman of the technical and rules commission of Boxing Federation of India (BFI). “Staying inside is very gloomy but I’m keeping fit and improving my boxing, doing whatever little I can. I want to represent Goa and win medals at the nationals,” said boxer Chotu Kumar Singh. Chotu has represented the state right from the youth category and is now aiming to make a mark in the elite 64kg weight division. He has set his sights on a gold at the 36th National Games, scheduled to be held in Goa later this year. He is not alone. Among others, there are the likes of Pushkar Bhosle and Tanisha Chawan. “There is no proper equipment for training but still I am practicing at home and sending videos to sir Lenny. Sir corrects me and it helps improve,” said Tanisha. The boxers are mainly working on toning their body with workouts, doing drills to improve speed and flexibility, besides sharpening their punching skills. With Lenny’s vast experience there is no doubt their weakness can soon turn into strength. “Every three days they send me their training videos and they are improving. It helps them keep in touch with boxing and their dedication grows,” said Lenny. There are many other boxers in the WhatsApp group but not everyone is active. Lenny – who shares some inspirational international boxing videos -- doesn’t mind as long they can learn something through the videos. As soon as the lockdown ends, the GBA is planning to conduct a league which will put the boxers in a competitive frame of mind ahead of the National Games. “Things will improve. We may not have a full team from Goa as we will have to get some outstation boxers. The problem is we don’t have much boxers in the upper weight categories as most of them leave the sport in search of a job,” said Lenny. There is also a shortage of women boxers and to address this the GBA has planned to start a ‘Fitness and Boxing’ programme for women. It will first teach them self-defence techniques, and those with potential can take up the sport on a full-time basis. For now, all plans have been kept on hold. The videos posted every morning on the social network group is what keeps everyone going.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/boxers-sweat-it-out-at-home/articleshow/75102257.cms||FLAVIO LOPES
April 12, 2020||Bhopal||He made anti-mask video, then fell sick||BHOPAL: An MP youth, who made TikTok videos to ridicule the use of masks, saying ‘trust in god not in a piece of cloth’, has had a sobering lesson after testing positive for Covid-19. Looking far from cheery in contrast to his older videos, the 25-year-old posted a TikTok clip from his hospital bed in Sagar on Saturday, saying: “Pray for me, friends.” That’s the last video he will be posting from hospital as his phone was taken away. His no-mask videos had gone viral, like the disease. He is an electrician but came as a saviour to many during the lockdown, distributing vegetables among the needy for free. In his first TikTok video, he is seen wearing sunglasses and lounging with swag on a two-wheeler as he explains why he doesn’t wear a mask. Someone is heard asking: “Arre bhai, virus ke wajah se mask nahi pahente (brother, why don’t you wear a mask)?” He replies: “Iss kapde ke tukde pe kya bharosa karna, karna hai toh uss upar wale pe karo (why trust this piece of cloth, trust in the Almighty).” With this profound statement lingering in the air, he walks off, slow motion style. Local sources say he continued to go around without a mask, distributing veggies to help people. On Friday, he tested positive and was admitted to Bundelkhand Medical College in Sagar. From his hospital bed, he posted a new video. Looking pale and sounding frightened, he asks people to pray for him. “Doctors have declared me corona-positive. Please continue to support me and pray for me. I will not be able to post TikTok videos from now on,” he says in the video.’ Health officials don’t yet know how he got infected. Since he had helped out several people, the administration is going to the localities he visited to identify people he may have come in contact with. Dean of the medical college, Dr GS Patel, told mediapersons, “The youth’s contact history is being traced to identify other people.” Police in Sagar suspect he may have come with an infected person during a visit to Jabalpur. The locality, where his five-year-old child and wife live, has been declared a containment zone.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/he-made-anti-mask-video-then-fell-sick/articleshow/75102635.cms||---
April 12, 2020||India||A special trip to get camel milk for autistic child||MUMBAI: A desperate Mumbai woman’s plea on Twitter for camel milk from Rajasthan for her three-and-a-half-year-old autistic child during the lockdown went viral, leading to an Odisha-based IPS officer stepping in to help her source it. On April 4, Chembur resident Neha Kumari tagged PM Narendra Modi in her tweet that read: “@narendramodi Sir I have a 3.5 yrs old child suffering from autism and severe food allergies. He survives on Camel Milk and limited qty of pulses. When lockdown started I didn’t have enough camel milk to last this long. Help me get Camel Milk or its powder from Sadri (Rajasthan).” The message was retweeted, and heard, by many, and offers of help poured in. IPS officer Arun Bothra, who is posted as CEO at the Central Electricity Supply Utility in Odisha and has a sizeable following on Twitter, was alerted about Neha’s post by one of his followers. Bothra, originally from Rajasthan, told TOI, “Since I am an IPS officer, many are of the view that I will be able to help out. I contacted the lady, who said her family usually stocks up on camel milk for two to three months. She got emotional saying they barely had enough left for three to four days and her child will collapse without the milk.” While Bothra got in touch with the railways to try and procure it, one person messaged him on Twitter saying he knows of a firm that supplies camel milk powder. The officer said, “The firm owner told me that a stockist in Andheri had just 400gram of the milk powder. The lady’s husband picked it up from the location and said it would suffice for four days.” Bothra said he shared the woman’s request on various WhatsApp groups in Rajasthan. “One of the group members informed me that Tarun Jain, chief passenger traffic manager with North-Western Railway, looks after freight operations. Since I know Jain, I put across a request to him too. He told me that one parcel train was to leave from Ludhiana and pass through Pali-Marwad-Jodhpur before reaching Mumbai.” Following Bothra’s request, Jain reportedly asked the railways’ commercial department in Ajmer to get in touch with the vendor to find out a convenient station for him to deliver the stock. Falna was found to be the closest station as Sadri is not along the route of the train. As the train does not have a halt at Falna, the railways agreed for a special stoppage to load the parcel. The milk supplier loaded 20kg of camel milk powder along with 20 litres of camel milk. Bothra said, “The stock arrived in Mumbai on April 9 and it was collected by the family on April 10 at 5pm. In the interim, another family made a similar request on Twitter for their child, but the train had already left from Rajasthan by then. I requested the Chembur family and they were kind enough to share 5kg of milk powder and 5 litres of milk with the other family.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/a-special-trip-to-get-camel-milk-for-autistic-child/articleshow/75102657.cms||Manthan K Mehta
April 12, 2020||India||A moment when India can save lives, we can’t let it go: PM Modi||NEW DELHI: Prime Minister Narendra Modi insisted that India help out other countries that need hydroxycholoroquine rather than opting for a blanket export ban after ensuring that there will be no deficiency for demand and buffer stock in India. Sources present in the meeting where the decision was taken to ramp up production of the drug and make it available for countries which had requested its supply said when officials pitched for an export ban, Modi simply asked for statistics on India’s future projected consumption in the worst case scenario. This projection would account for use by patients, close contacts and healthcare workers — as currently recommended — in keeping with production capacity. “The PM said that he wanted to seize this opportunity for India and the world. ‘This is an important moment where India can save lives and we cannot let it go,’ the PM said,” according to a source. The PM is understood to have keenly tracked emerging research on Covid-19 and after reading about hydroxychloroquine, he called some heads of pharma companies to inquire about India’s production capacity. Coming from Gujarat, his understanding of the pharmaceutical industry proved handy and he requested companies to ramp up production. This was before President Donald Trump spoke of the drug to India, said sources. Minister of state for chemicals and fertilisers Mansukh Mandavia said, “While we went to brief the PM about India’s production capacity, he already knew most of it. He wanted us to move forward. His directive was to bring all stakeholders on board to ensure that we ramp up production immediately.” Cadila Healthcare’s Pankaj Patel said, “PM Modi motivated the industry by saying this is the chance for India to make a mark globally. He assured us help and results are here for all to see. This month our industry produced 20 crore tablets. My company will produce APIs worth 15 crore tablets next month.” Modi asked officials to ensure standard bureaucratic procedures do not come in the way of increasing production to meet the demands of India and other countries. India produces 70% of the hydroxychloroquine in the world. As of now India’s need is 1.5 crore tablets and has 3.28 crore tablets which will soon reach 5 crore. State governments have also stocked these tablets which will reach 2.5 crore by end of the week. The ‘India Model’ of proactively helping out with the medicine, said sources, is quite different from the ‘China Model’ where assistance is tied up with conditions and quality is poor. Countries from the US and Brazil to the Maldives have thanked India. The PM is understood to have keenly tracked emerging research on Covid-19. After reading about hydroxychloroquine, he asked heads of some pharmaceutical firms to ramp up production. This was even before US President Trump spoke about the drug to India, sources said||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/a-moment-when-india-can-save-lives-we-cant-let-it-go-pm/articleshow/75102677.cms||---
April 12, 2020||India||Without lockdown, virus could have affected 8.2 lakh by April 15: Analysis||NEW DELHI: A day after it said that there was no such ICMR study, the health ministry said on Saturday that there was a “statistical rate of growth-based analysis” that without a lockdown and containment measures, Covid-19 cases could be projected to spiral to 8.2 lakh by April 15, registering a 41% cumulative growth rate. Though the health ministry had on Friday denied reports about an ICMR study that the ministry of external affairs had referred to in a briefing to foreign media, it clarified that the chart was a statistical analysis. However, it maintained that it was not a report or a study. The projection, explained by Lav Agarwal, joint secretary in the health ministry, takes into account containment measures alone, without implementation of the lockdown. The statistical analysis also calculated that in a scenario without a lockdown, a total of 1.2 lakh positive cases could have been reported by April 15 if the peak growth rate of the disease at 28.9%, seen before the lockdown was initiated, had sustained. At these rates, as of April 11, the cases could have been 2 lakh with just a lockdown and around 44,000 with only containment measures, in keeping with the two projections. Agarwal’s comments were a partial walkback on the ministry’s position on Friday. The government said that it was a statistical exercise. The clarification pointed to the need for closer coordination within the government as an MEA representative was in fact present at Friday’s Covid-19 update. In the current situation, after the implementation of the lockdown as well as stringent containment measures, India is witnessing a significantly lower number of positive cases at 7,447 as of Saturday, Agarwal said highlighting the importance of the measures and social distancing. “India’s response to the coronavirus pandemic has always been pre-emptive and proactive to the extent of being overprepared. We have taken a graded approach depending on the situation,” Agarwal said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/without-lockdown-virus-could-have-affected-8-2-lakh-by-april-15-analysis/articleshow/75102680.cms||---
April 12, 2020||India||UP, Maharashtra eye pool tests to speed up Covid screening||LUCKNOW/ MUMBAI: In a bid to speed up Covid-19 tests in the state, Uttar Pradesh government has decided to adopt group testing or pooled sample testing, which is being used in Germany and Israel at present to contain the virus spread. Maharashtra has also sought permission from the Centre and the Indian Council for Medical Research (ICMR) to allow pool testing, state health minister Rajesh Tope said in Mumbai on Saturday. The method involves mixing of several samples to create a large or super sample and putting them up for test in one go instead of testing every single sample one at a time. It's not new and was used widely by the US to screen patients of syphilis during the World War II. The technique now has been validated for coronavirus testing and is being used successfully by Israel and Germany. Health officials in UP are in the final stages of rolling out the method. “We are the first one in the country to be rolling this out from next week. While it is in use in Germany and Israel, ICMR is working on a standard operating procedure (SOP),” confirmed Vikasendu Agarwal, state surveillance officer, UP. “In all probability, the super sample size will be made from the swab of 10 persons and put to test. Ten samples will be collected each day in the beginning and scaled up later. This means that we will be able to test 100 persons from a pool of two or three districts every day,” he explained. Epidemiologist and community health specialist, Vishwajeet Kumar said that adoption of the technique was a smart move. “It will speed up sample processing by several folds at much lower cost. Consider this: If 10 super samples are tested, the outcome for 100 can be studied at a cost of just 10 diagnostic kits instead of 100.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/up-maharashtra-eye-pool-tests-to-speed-up-covid-screening/articleshow/75102727.cms||---
April 12, 2020||India||Lockdown exit path? Ministers to return to offices from tomorrow||NEW DELHI: In an initial step towards return to normalcy, ministers and senior officers will be back in government offices from Monday, with up to a third of junior officers and staff also allowed to assist them, while ensuring social-distancing norms. “The government has desired that all officers who are entitled to official transport facility will come to office from Monday, that is officers of the level of joint secretary or higher,” said an official source, although a formal communication was not issued. The move signals the government’s plan to manage exit from the lockdown, although it is yet to decide on allowing private sector to begin operations, in a limited way. While a source said the government has asked businesses to brace for a possible opening up, a senior officer said a decision on resuming operations at factories producing “non-essential” goods has not been taken yet. Although ministries have been opened up in a limited manner, government officials said they were looking to operate in this manner for the next few months as full-scale operations could only commence when Covid-19 was brought under control, for which a vaccine is essential. With the lockdown still in place, the first two days are unlikely to see any public dealing as citizens would still be confined to their homes. An extension will allow ministries to prepare for a limited opening up of public dealing in the coming weeks although compliance requirements have been eased for three months in several sectors such as taxation and companies law to reduce the need to visit government offices.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/lockdown-exit-path-ministers-to-return-to-offices-from-tomorrow/articleshow/75102733.cms||---
April 12, 2020||Pune||Silence draws out birds & wild animals in Pune rural areas||PUNE: The unusual quiet in the wake of the lockdown has brought back many winged creatures to the rural parts of Pune, a joint study by state forest department and Pune-based Ela Foundation said. “After lockdown, the urban areas usually occupied by pigeons, crows, kites and mynas witnessed new visitors. Interesting instances of parakeets entering homes, hornbills coming near windows, great tits, coucals and koels visiting terrace gardens, paradise flycatchers and fantails dancing in empty gardens, babblers making commotions, tailor birds, sunbirds, prinias, mynas, starlings, black drongos and bee-eaters coming close and owls perching on roof tops at night are being witnessed and reported,” Satish Pande, ornithologist and founder of Ela Foundation, said. To study if a similar effect is witnessed in the rural regions adjacent to the city, a scientific study was launched in Purandar taluka, around Ela Habitat in Pingori village, near Jejuri.“We used camera traps and deployed them at waterholes. The trap cameras take photographs after a movement occurs in the field of view. The pictures are taken automatically by day and night (using IR light). Once deployed it takes up to seventy thousand photos,” Pande said. Ela Foundation and the forest department are studying animal behaviour for the past five years using trap cameras deployed at several localities in Purandar taluka. “For the lockdown study, we selected waterholes near human habitation for the present study from where we also had observations from past five years. One of the waterholes is artificially made by us at Ela Habitat in our premises. These sites were studied to find the effect on mammals and other wildlife after human absence due to the lockdown,” he said. In the previous studies the observers had commonly seen mainly birds like house sparrow, coucal, babblers, an occasional peafowl, chinkara and mongoose visiting the waterholes. “When trap camera data was obtained after the first two weeks of lockdown, we were amazed. We had increased populations of all previous birds and additional species like rufous tree-pie, grey francolin, quails, buntings, pipits, flycatchers and also hawks and eagles at the waterholes. The mammals included mongoose, Asian palm civet, small Indian civet, Indian gazelle (chinkara), barking deer, four-horned antelope, black-naped hare, Indian fox, jungle cat, golden jackal, hyena, wolf, wild boar, porcupine and leopard. The visitors often came with their families,” Pande said. Among reptiles there were snakes, chameleons, lizards and monitor lizard visiting the waterhole. “These waterholes which are close to human habitation and a reliable source of water are otherwise avoided by wild animals. They are now increasingly visited by wildlife. These very animals were otherwise forced to search for distant water bodies in the hot summer,” he added. However, on the flip side, researchers have also found nooses, traps and snares to catch peafowl, hare and wild boar. They are promptly destroyed and reported to forest department, Pande said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/silence-draws-out-birds-wild-animals-in-rural-areas/articleshow/75102470.cms||Manjiri Damle
April 12, 2020||Patna||Bird flu under control in Bihar, says minister||PATNA: Diseases like bird flu and swine fever are fully under control in Bihar as no new case was reported from any part of the state during the last 10 days, state’s agriculture, animal and fisheries resources minister Prem Kumar said on Saturday. The minister said the officials of animal and fisheries resources department (AFRD) were put on alert after reports of death of crows, pigeons and other wild birds in mid-March. As per the data collected by the department, altogether 262 crows and other birds died in different districts of the state between March 15 and 27, including 161 in Patna. The minister said as reports about birds’ death began pouring in from different places, the AFRD officials were asked to collect samples of birds and send them to the Regional Disease Diagnosis Laboratory (RDDL), Kolkata, to ascertain whether the birds were dying because of the bird flu. “Accordingly, the officials collected samples of some chickens from Ashoknagar, Kankarbagh in Patna and Saidpur village in Nalanda district. The RDDL, in its primary investigation, confirmed bird flu in the samples collected from both the places,” he said. Consequently, the district magistrates and the district animal husbandry officers of Patna and Nalanda decided to go for culling of infected birds as per the Centre’s action plan for bird flu. “Resultantly, altogether 897 birds in Nalanda and five in Patna were culled on March 27,” the minister said. He said besides the culling, the officials also sanitised all areas falling under 1km radius of the two epicentres. All other places from where large scale death of birds was reported were also sanitised to check the spread of deadly influenza. “The state government has constituted a committee of experts from the Bihar Animal Sciences University to find out the reason behind untimely death of birds in the state. Some officials from the AFRD and the environment, forest and climate change department have also been included in the committee,” the minister said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/bird-flu-under-control-in-bihar-says-minister/articleshow/75100898.cms||Madan Kumar
April 12, 2020||Patna||This homemaker is a messiah for poor & hungry||PATNA: At a time when a large number of Patnaites were busy stocking up on groceries and other essential commodities, Nala Road resident Tanya Biswas decided to feed the poor, who would be the “worst hit during the 21-day nationwide lockdown”. “The moment I heard of the lockdown, I rushed to a nearby grocery and bought all the essential items. I knew it would hit poor people the hardest and made up my mind to serve food to at least 50 of them every day,” Biswas, who is a homemaker, told this newspaper. The 47-year-old has also been providing medicines and vitamin C supplements to senior citizens, who do not have access to proper medication due to the lockdown. She said, “I try cooking different items like fried rice, ‘aloo-pudi’ and ‘litti-chokha’ every day and distribute food packets in Nala Road, Rajendra Nagar, Bhattacharya Road and Kadamkuan areas. At times, I also make people drink hot tea as small ‘dhabas’ are shut.” To Biswas, feeding the hungry is “not a duty, but a responsibility” that every privileged person should take up. “Daily wagers, sanitation workers and rickshaw pullers work hard for us. This is my way of thanking them,” she said and thanked four people from her apartment, who were supporting her in her initiative. Asked about the hassles she faces while distributing food among the poor, Biswas said she had been questioned about her religion quite a few times. “When I first went out, I had not expected that people would ask me whether I was a Hindu or a Muslim. A number of them still ask me the same question and even deny to take my food packets. Although surprising, these incidents do not bother me now. I will continue performing my duty and help the poor,” she claimed.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/this-homemaker-is-a-messiah-for-poor-hungry/articleshow/75100876.cms||Archi Rani
April 12, 2020||Aurangabad||Chikalthana firm carries out disinfectant spraying in villages||Aurangabad: While the municipal body is spraying the disinfectant solution in the city limits, a Chikalthana-based industry has initiated disinfectant spraying in villages outside city limits free of cost. Amid the ongoing Covid-19 scare, the administration is taking all efforts to ensure health of citizens. The Aurangabad Municipal Corporation (AMC) has engaged its fire tenders for spraying disinfectant on roads, buildings and in areas where there is a higher footfall like vegetable market grounds. According to municipal commissioner Astik Kumar Pandey, though there is no scientific link between spraying of disinfectant and Covid-19, the civic body is cafrrying out the activity due to contain spread of any other infections amid the pandemic. However, the villages were not covered in the disinfectant spraying initiative ofs the civic body. Subsequently, a manufacturer of construction boards, Jolly Board Limited based in Chikalthana MIDC, Aurangabad, reached out to the zilla parishad and offered to carry out disinfection in the outskirts. According to Jolly Board works director Anil Shinde, the industry has a fire truck and an extinguisher which could be used for spraying. “We felt that we could help the administration in taking care of the health of villagers,” he said. Subsequently, Sunil Bhokre, deputy CEO of zilla parishad, Aurangabad, issued permission to the industry to spray disinfectant in Teesgaon, Wadgaon Kolhati, Gandheli, Balapur, Shramik Vihar, Gopalpur, Krishnapurwadi and Pisadevi villages. The team of Jolly Board employees consisting of Shinde, Manoj Desai, Kishore Gore, Santosh Danve, Nilesh Zope, Bhausaheb Mahajan, Shaikh Ansar, Vitthal Wadekar, and Kiran Tiwari are collecting water from MIDC and sanitising spray consisting of sodium hydroxide solution in their fire truck and carrying out spraying on the roads and market areas of the villages.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/chikalthana-firm-carries-out-disinfectant-spraying-in-villages/articleshow/75101296.cms||---
April 12, 2020||Vadodara||Misusing passes for leisure trips will lose vehicles||Vadodara: If you don’t want to lose your vehicle, don’t misuse your pass. The police have decided to crack down on those misusing the passes that have been provided to commute during the lockdown for leisure trips in the city. The move follows cops detecting many such pass holders making multiple trips without any valid reason. “Many private individuals have been given passes, especially those working in companies who need to operate, besides a select few individuals who have to travel for urgent matters,” said Anupam Singh Gahlaut, city police commissioner. But over the last few days, the police have started noticing that many people, including employees of a pharma company who were given duty passes, were making multiple trips.“So we have decided to keep a check even on those having the pass, especially those travelling in cars. We will use CCTVs to monitor the cars and the license plate number will be fed in number plate recognition software. Any car making multiple movements in a day will be traced through the software,” Gahlaut told TOI. Cops will then reach out to these owners and inquire why their vehicle had to make multiple trips, he added. If the cops find out that the pass is being misused, then the vehicle would be detained, Gahlaut said, adding that most Barodians are following lockdown rules. Around 15,000 citizens venture out daily for some or the other reason, apart from 5,000 to 6,000 government officials, he said. “Some of them carry milk bag or medical prescription around the city in the pretext of buying essential items. Strict action will be taken against such persons too,” cops said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/misusing-passes-for-leisure-trips-will-lose-vehicles/articleshow/75100990.cms||Tushar Tere
April 12, 2020||Surat||Burning dumpyard fills Surat lockdown air with toxic gas||Surat: With almost negligible vehicular movement during the lockdown, noise pollution as well as vehicular emission has almost become a thing of the past.However, while the urban spaces were enjoying the sounds of birds chirping in the fresh morning air, pollution once again hit the nostrils — this time with landfills around the diamond city abruptly catching fire from the toxic waste reacting to the atmospheric heat.For the past two days, the landfill site at Khajod have been emitting toxic gas and fumes. An alert citizen, Sanjeev Kothari, clicked pictures and shared it with members of Project Surat – that works towards environment awareness. Speaking to the TOI ,environmentalist Akash Bansal said, “Even though construction waste – a major contributor to landfills – has stopped due to lockdown, other combustible commercial as well as solid industrial waste too have been deposited here at alarming levels. These chemicals react with rising temperature outside and begin to smoulder first producing foul toxic gases and smog. These are highly dangerous for the health. ” Yoga enthusiast and entrepreneur, Nandini Sultania, shared a video of an affected area filled with toxic smog due to the landfill fire. This succeeded in grabbing the authorities’ eyeballs who responded quickly to the situation. Jwalant Naik, assistant engineer at Surat Municipal Corporation (SMC) said: “The fire began at a four-month-old landfill site even where there wasn’t any activity going on. The cause of the fire at Khajod landfill is yet unknown, while we worked till 4am on Friday to control its spread.” Activists of Project Surat are documenting the issues of landfill fires, their magnitude, characteristics and mitigation at present. Once the lockdown eases, they are hoping to raise further awareness among the denizens as well as authorities regarding these hazardous fires, said Akash, 28, who funds Project Surat himself, hoping to make the diamond city pollution and waste-free by 2025.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/burning-dumpyard-fills-surat-lockdown-air-with-toxic-gas/articleshow/75102062.cms||Ashleshaa Khurana
April 12, 2020||Surat||‘Allow online delivery of liquor to permit holders’||Surat: Chairman of Bharuch’s Ganesh Sugar Mill has urged the state government to allow home delivery of liquor to permit holders in Gujarat.Sandip Mangrola, chairman of Ganesh Sugar Mill, who took the initiative of manufacturing hand sanitizer at the mill, said, “Due to lockdown, liquor permit shops across the state have downed their shutters, rendering permit holders in the lurch. Permits are issued to individuals for health reasons. I have urged the state government to start an online portal for home delivery of liquor to permit holders.”Mangrola added, “The borders of Gujarat state have been sealed due to lockdown which has stopped supply of liquor from other states. However, sale of duplicate liquor and hooch has gone up. This is going to create a huge problem for the state government if people die after consuming spurious liquor.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/allow-online-delivery-of-liquor-to-permit-holders/articleshow/75102108.cms||---
April 12, 2020||Patna||Patna University: NCC & NSS together in fight against Covid-19||PATNA: Even as Patna University (PU) colleges are shut due to the 21-day lockdown, it is offering the services of its NCC cadets and NSS volunteers to prevent the spread of coronavirus and help the poor. The university has submitted a list of NSS volunteers to the district administration and prepared another list of NCC cadets, who can provide emergency support. PU registrar Manoj Kumar Mishra told this newspaper that the e-mail ids and contact details of at least 100 NSS volunteers from each institution had been forwarded to the Union ministry of youth affairs. “Such volunteers have been asked to download the ‘Aarogya Setu’ app on their cell phones so that they keep abreast of the latest initiatives of the health ministry for prevention of Covid-19. They will also be given kits for preparing face masks,” he said. Staff to donate one-day salary to CM’s fund: All the officers, teachers and non-teaching staff of PU have decided to donate their one-day salary to the Chief Minister’s Relief Fund to fight against coronavirus. The teachers and staff of Chanakya National Law University had donated a sum of Rs 3.38 lakh to the PM CARES Fund on Friday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/pu-ncc-nss-together-in-fight-against-covid-19/articleshow/75100857.cms||---
April 12, 2020||Ranchi||6 mnths jail for spitting in Bokaro, Ramgarh||Ramgarh/Bokaro: Ramgarh district administration on Friday said that anyone caught spitting in public will be put behind bars for six months. Deputy commissioner Sandeep Singh ordered all government and private institutes and offices to be declared as tobacco-free zones. “Violators will be fined Rs 200 and imprisoned for six months,” a statement issued by the district public relations department read. Singh said the move was made to contain the spread of Covid-19. The deadly virus travels through local contact and saliva. Bokaro district administration, which is grappling with five positive cases of Covid-19, banned the consumption of tobacco products in the district. “Six months of imprisonment or a fine of Rs 200 will be slapped on the person caught spitting tobacco or any other substance. Cleanliness is necessary in all areas. An order has been issued to all government and non-government offices, health and education institutes and police stations, asking them to ban the use of tobacco,” said Bokaro deputy commissioner Mukesh Kumar. He added that strict action will be taken if any officer, employee or visitor is found spitting tobacco.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/6-mnths-jail-for-spitting-in-bokaro-ramgarh/articleshow/75096754.cms||---
April 12, 2020||Ranchi||Dialysis patients flock to Rims as pvt hosps refuse treatment||Ranchi: More than 70 patients suffering from nephrological disorder (a kidney ailment) reached the state-run Rajendra Institute of Medical Sciences (Rims) on Thursday for a dialysis since all the private hospitals and dialysis centres here have refused to treat such patients without a Covid-19 negative report. Many came to Rims to get a Covid-19 negative report but the hospital could neither provide them with a test report nor arrange for a dialysis owing to shortage of manpower. Private hospitals and clinics have made it compulsory to get a virus test done before coming to them. The move comes after a 54-year-old woman tested positive for Covid-19 on April 6 and she had been on dialysis at one of the leading centres in Ranchi. Following her positive report, the district administration had to seal the centre and put all the staff and doctors in quarantine. Although one patient was fortunate enough to get a Covid-19 negative report from Rims and could get treatment at a private hospital, several patients are waiting to get a Covid-19 report done or to be put on dialysis at the government hospital. Taking cognisance of the situation, the health department directed Rims to make requisite arrangements so that these patients could be put on dialysis immediately. “We were informed that private hospitals have refused to admit patients for dialysis so I have directed the Rims management to hire lab technicians from private hospitals so that these patients could be attended to at the earliest,” said health secretary Nitin Madan Kulkarni. Rims, which is facing acute manpower shortage and has only two technicians for dialysis, on Thursday wrote a letter to the Jharkahnd branch of the IMA requesting them to provide additional workforce at Rims.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/dialysis-patients-flock-to-rims-as-pvt-hosps-refuse-treatment/articleshow/75096980.cms||Gaurav Pandey
April 12, 2020||Patna||Enforce lockdown or face the music, mukhiyas told||PATNA: The state disaster management department has asked all the mukhiyas and ward members to enforce the coronavirus lockdown in their respective areas more effectively or face the music. A fresh directive in this regard has been issued in the wake of numerous complaints received about frequent violation of the lockdown, especially in rural areas, because of the lackadaisical attitude of the authorities concerned. Altogether 615 people were arrested and 812 FIRs lodged with different police stations in the state for violation of the lockdown till Friday. As many as 6,066 vehicles were impounded and a sum of Rs 3.13 crore was realized as penalty from their owners during the period. A disaster management official told this newspaper on Saturday that mukhiyas of different panchayats would now be held accountable for lapses during the lockdown. “Panchayat heads and ward members have been warned of stern action if complaints of lockdown violation are received in future,” the official said and added that at some places people kept under the 14-day mandatory quarantine had been found missing. Notably, approximately 27,000 migrant workers have been quarantined at 3,115 isolation camps set up in government schools and panchayat buildings across the state. “Complaints of social distancing not being maintained in remote areas have also been received,” the official pointed out. The panchayat functionaries have been told to ensure that proper arrangements for the people quarantined at the temporary isolation camps are made. The government has also released funds for the purpose. Efforts to contact disaster management principal secretary, Prataya Amrit, proved futile. Authoritative sources said he was busy in official meetings. The disaster management department is the nodal agency that coordinates with others to deal with the outbreak of Covid-19 in the state. Gopal Singh, the mukhiya of a panchayat under Raghunathpur block in Siwan district, claimed that the panchayat functionaries were cooperating with the government to check the spread of Covid-19. “We are cautious and providing inputs to the district administration, if required,” he said. Panjwar village under Raghunathpur block alone has reported 23 of the 29 positive coronavirus cases in Siwan district. Siwan has recorded the highest number of positive cases in the state.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/enforce-lockdown-or-face-the-music-mukhiyas-told/articleshow/75100769.cms||Ramashankar
April 12, 2020||Patna||NDRF personnel sanitise ‘hotspots’||PATNA: At least 15 teams of National Disaster Response Force (NDRF) have been deployed in Patna, Siwan, Begusarai, Munger, Gaya, Nalanda and Nawada districts to sanitise coronavirus-affected areas. The NDRF personnel are also imparting training to state government employees on how to tackle the situation and prevent further spread of the virus in the affected areas. Trained and equipped to deal with chemical, biological, radiological and nuclear emergencies, the NDRF personnel are assisting doctors, paramedics and police in fighting the pandemic. NDRF’s 9th battalion commandant Vijay Sinha told TOI on Saturday that apart from disinfection work, the NDRF teams are also working with quick response medical teams (QRMTs) comprising doctors and police in taking a Covid-19 suspect to hospital by following standard operating procedure so that others are not infected. He said NDRF personnel are functioning with proper personal protection equipment (PPE), biological suits and high pressure spray pumps for decontaminating large areas. “We have got at least 1300 PPEs from Delhi. Biological suits were already with us,” Sinha said. He added, “We have so far imparted training to doctors, paramedics, Airports Authority of India staff and Central Industrial Security Force personnel deployed at Patna and Gaya airports. The NCC cadets are also being trained in Gaya.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/ndrf-personnel-sanitise-hotspots/articleshow/75100836.cms||Debashish Karmakar
April 12, 2020||Patna||No headway in sexual assault case||GAYA: The police have so far not been able to make any breakthrough in its investigation into sexual misconduct with a woman inmate of an isolation ward at Anugrah Narayan Medical College and Hospital (ANMMCH) here. As per the complaint lodged by the woman’s mother-in-law, her daughter-in-law was subjected to sexual harassment. The woman died in sleep six days after being discharged from the isolation ward of ANMMCH. The police have registered a case under Section 354 (A) of the IPC. As per the contents of the FIR, the young woman, wife of a migrant worker living in Ludhiana, had a miscarriage and was also having some respiratory problem. She reached Gaya on March 25 and was admitted to ANMMCH on March 27. As the woman was facing respiratory problems, she was referred to the isolation ward. Asked about the progress in the case, City SP Rakesh Kumar said investigations were underway and on account of the complicated nature of the case, a thorough investigation was needed.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/no-headway-in-sexual-assault-case/articleshow/75100757.cms||---
April 12, 2020||Jaipur||E-pass launched for movement of essential services vehicles||EDITED Jaipur: In the wake of nationwide lockdown due to the Covid-19 crisis, the state government on Saturday introduced e-pass facilities for the movement of personnel and vehicles engaged in the functioning of essential services and supply of goods, said an official statement. The companies and firms can apply online for the lockdown passes for their employees on epass.rajasthan.gov.in. “On acceptance of the online application, the applicant will receive the e-pass in two parts on his email. In the first part of the e-pass, it will have a photo and QR code of the applicant which can be put on the vehicle and the personal details of the applicant will be in the second part of the pass, which will have the vehicle number,” read an official statement issued by DIPR. The above e-pass can be digitally verified by the policemen deployed anywhere through their mobile app. This facility is also available on the Rajkop Citizen Mobile App. Box Jaipur: The state government has issued a notification on Saturday stating that the wholesalers will now have to fill an application form to give details about their place of trade, essential commodities, warehouses and capacity within five days. It will be implemented in the state with immediate effect and will be effective till June 30. Food and Civil Supplies minister Ramesh Chandra Meena said that if a wholesaler wants to use any other place other than the declared warehouse for collection, he will have to mention this in his stock register with correct details.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/e-pass-launched-for-movement-of-essential-services-vehicles/articleshow/75101988.cms||---
April 12, 2020||Kolhapur||SP: Keep note of people you come in contact with||Kolhapur: With the number of Covid-19 cases increasing, superintendent of police Abhinav Deshmukh has appealed to the people from the district to note down the names of people who they come in contact with after they step out of their houses for essential work. This will help in tracing the people in case anyone gets infected. SP has circulated the message on social media platforms appealing to people to keep a diary noting down the names. It will help the police department and the district administration in ‘contact tracing’ exercise if an emergency occurs. In the message, he said, “Please do not step out of the house unless there is any valid reason. If one steps out of the house to buy essentials, please maintain a diary to note down the details of the person whom one comes in contact with throughout the day. This will help us in tracing the particular person or persons in case one gets infected with coronavirus or somebody who one came in contact gets infected. This will help us take quick action to prevent the spread of the disease.” According to police officials, the tedious task they are facing is tracing the people that came in contact with the Covid-19 patient or suspected to be one. “If people maintain a diary, noting down the names of people they come in contact with, it will be easy for the administration to reach out to these people, check them immediately and take immediate steps to break the chain, said a senior police officer.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolhapur/sp-keep-note-of-people-you-come-in-contact-with/articleshow/75101995.cms||---
April 12, 2020||Jaipur||Police crackdown on sale of illicit liquor||Ajmer: Sale of illicit liquor is witnessing a sudden increase in the district with four cases being registered and several people being arrested in the last two days. After the announcement of lockdown, many were looking for liquor and were ready to pay higher prices. One shop in the city was robbed recently. Last week, a raid was conducted in Sansi Basti in the city where police seized the equipment used to prepare illicit liquor. While the licenced liquor shops in the district have been sealed by the state exercise department, cases of smuggling of liquor in the city were being reported from many parts of the city, said sources. On Saturday, police arrested Subhash Mandal, a resident of Mahadev Nagar, with 32 beer bottles in Civil Lines area. Similarly, Adarsh Nagar police arrested Bhawani Singh (45) with 288 pints of whisky. A day before Firoz (21) and Ram Singh (34) were arrested by Beawar police with 15 litres of country-made liquor while Jawaja police had arrested Narendra and others with 40 cartons of liquor. Since two-wheelers are not allowed, liquor is being smuggled using bicycles. Police said they were keeping a strict vigil.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/police-crackdown-on-sale-of-illicit-liquor/articleshow/75102006.cms||---
April 12, 2020||Goa||After curfew, ANC to crack down on drug supply chain||Panaji: The anti-narcotics cell (ANC) of Goa police has decided to use the lockdown as an opportunity to weed out drugs from the state before the new tourist season commences. ANC superintendent of police (SP) Shobit Saxena told TOI that Goa police’s aim is to make Goa drug-free before the next tourist season commences as it is mostly tourists who consume party drugs and it is “through tourists’ network that drugs are being brought to the state”. In the lockdown situation it will be easier to track the supply chain and arrest those involved, Saxena said. “We will target them one by one and clean the system. The main consumers have left the state and now there is no demand for drugs,” he said. “We will start the drive against drugs once the lockdown is lifted,” Saxena added. Also, most of the drugs traded in Goa are by people from outside the state, including foreigners, Saxena said. Most of the foreigners have returned to their countries, and those left are behind bars in various narcotic cases, he said. Maximum drug raids in Goa take place during tourist season when foreigners come to Goa for holidays. Police has seized drugs worth crores of rupees and arrested foreigners, non-Goans and Goans in various cases. A senior police officer said that foreigners deal with different type of drugs depending on the demand.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/after-curfew-anc-to-crack-down-on-drug-supply-chain/articleshow/75102474.cms||Murari Shetye
April 12, 2020||Surat||Surat traffic jawan takes Covid-19 test to ‘evade’ duty||Surat: A 32-year-old traffic brigade jawan got his Covid-19 tests done at SMIMER Hospital, apparently to avoid coming on duty during this critical time. The jawan, Naresh Makwana, got his test done on Thursday without informing his seniors and stayed quarantined at home for two days as per doctors instructions after his samples were collected.On Saturday, the traffic police received a report that Makwana had tested negative."Makwana did not inform me or any senior colleague that he is feeling sick. He went directly to hospital without seeking approval and got himself tested. He informed the department only after he was instructed home quarantine," said A P Chauhan, assistant commissioner of police, traffic.Makwana was suffering from cold and cough after which he went for testing. He provided his wrong address to establish that he lives in city even as he is a resident of Kadodara near Surat."It seems Makwana wanted leave and did not wish to work. We are paying minimum salary to few TRB jawan who live in villages far from city and they are allowed to stay home. He also wanted similar benefits but was not eligible for it since Kadodara is near the city and he was not given leave," said Chauhan."Since the report is negative now senior police officials will decide further actions against Makwana," said the officer.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/surat-traffic-jawan-takes-covid-19-test-to-evade-duty/articleshow/75102027.cms||---
April 12, 2020||Patna||Bihar: Minor gang-raped in Siwan||PATNA: Police arrested four youths on Saturday for the alleged gang rape of a minor girl at a village under the Darauda police station area in Siwan on Friday evening. According to sources, the 15-year-old was gang-raped when she had gone to a nearby field to answer the call of nature. The accused, who belonged to the same village, were arrested soon after the survivor’s father reported the incident to police on Saturday. “The accused — Pratap, Ashish, Qayamuddin and Aftab — were taken to the sadar hospital where their blood samples were collected. They were later handed over to the women’s police station as the complaint had been lodged there,” Darauda police station SHO Rajendra Singh told this newspaper. The girl was also sent to the hospital for medical examination. “Her statement will be recorded in court,” an investigating officer said. Girl molested: A minor girl was allegedly molested by one Pankaj Sharma at a village under the Sakurabad police station area in Jehanabad district on Friday evening. Police said the girl was returning home from a grocery. (The victim's identity has not been revealed to protect her privacy as per Supreme court directives on cases related to sexual assault)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/minor-gang-raped-in-siwan/articleshow/75100805.cms||---
April 12, 2020||Patna||Bihar: Two minors among 3 killed in 24 hours||PATNA: A six-year-old boy and a 14-year-old girl were among three people killed in different incidents in the state in the the last 24 hours. Police recovered the body of a 14-year-old girl from a mango orchard on the outskirts of Ranjitpur East village under Punaura police outpost in Sitamarhi district early on Saturday. The policemen were taken aback when they found vermillion put on the girl’s head despite her being unmarried. The victim’s father told the police that his daughter was raped and subsequently killed by a co-villager, Laddu Lal Kumar, and his two associates. Her body was hung from a tree to make the incident appear like a suicide case. “Laddu was pressuring my minor daughter for marriage,” the father told the police. SHO of Punaura police outpost Dinesh Ram said the body was sent to the Sadar hospital at Sitamarhi for postmortem. “The autopsy report is awaited,” he said, adding raids are on to arrest the culprits. In another incident, a six-year-old boy, Pawan Kumar, was found murdered at Prarepur Hardi village under Kathaiya police station in Muzaffarpur district on Saturday. Pawan, the son of a rural medical practitioner, Guddu Kumar, had been missing since Friday. SHO of Kathaiya police station Sunil Kumar said the boy was kidnapped when he was playing outside his house around 5pm on Friday. The boy’s father reported the incident to the police around 10pm. “The boy’s body was recovered from a wheat field,” he added. In Jamui, a 35-year-old man, Santosh Sao, was allegedly killed by his wife and her paramour at Pratappur village under the Jamui police station area late on Friday night. Police on Saturday arrested the deceased’s wife, Sanju Devi, and her paramour, Mukesh. The two were produced before a court in Jamui, which remanded them in judicial custody for 14 days. In Khagaria, criminals shot at and critically injured a mukhiya, Jagdish Chandra Basu alias Munna Yadav, on Saturday. Munna, the mukhiya of Meghauna panchayat, was rushed to the sadar hospital from where he was later referred to the PMCH. Police said Munna had unsuccessfully contested Lok Sabha election on the ticket of the CPI from Khagaria. An FIR was lodged with the Alauli police station in Khagaria district on the victim’s statement. In Saharsa, a 25-year-old youth, Ankit Kumar, was shot at and injured by unidentified armed criminals on D B Road on Saturday. He was rushed to the sadar hosptial for treatment. SHO of Saharsa town police station R K Singh said the reason behind the murderous attack on Ankit was yet to be ascertained.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/two-minors-among-3-killed-in-24-hours/articleshow/75100789.cms||Ramashankar
April 12, 2020||Patna||Bihar: Probe ordered as 3-year-old dies after ambulance denied||PATNA: A probe has been ordered into the death of an ailing three-year-old child on Friday whose parents were denied ambulance facility at the sub-divisional hospital in Jehanabad after the child was referred to the PMCH in Patna. A three-member committee headed by the district civil surgeon has been formed at the direction of Jehanabad DM Navin Kumar to inquire into the alleged negligence by medical and contractual staff in failing to provide an ambulance. A video of the hapless mother carrying the child in her arms and the father following her with their second child has gone viral drawing criticism on the social media as well as from political leaders. The couple, 23-year-old Madhu Devi and 25-year-old Girijesh Kumar, had reached Jehanabad sadar hospital from their village in neighbouring Arwal district to get their ailing child treated. They had hired an auto-richshaw for Rs 1,300 amid lockdown in an attempt to save their son’s life. Girijesh, a daily wager, told TOI over phone that his son Rishu was suffering from high fever and other ailments for a week. “Doctors at Jehanabad sadar hospital on Friday referred Rishu to PMCH. We approached an ambulance driver, who asked us to first get oxygen supply fixed. I ran inside the hospital and begged for help. But they told me it was ambulance staffer’s job to fix oxygen. Amid all this we were delayed by one-and-half-hour,” Girijesh said, adding, all this while Madhu was trying to comfort Rishu and after some time he died in her arms. “I was even ready to pay money as ambulance driver had said he will charge Rs 10 per kilometre to take us to PMCH but even then things got delayed and my child died,” Girijesh said. The mother with her son’s dead body in her arms and her husband with their second child left on foot for Sahopur village— 40km from the sadar hospital. Later, the family was provided with private transport by a good samaritan to reach home with the body. The child’s father had taken Rs 10,000 loan on high interest rate from two money lenders for his son’s treatment and he has been warned to return the money within a month. “My wife is an assistant auxiliary nurse maid but has not received her salary for almost an year. We spent Rs 15,000 on my son’s treatment,” Girijesh said, who also has two daughters. When asked, Jehanabad civil surgeon Dr Vijay Kumar Sinha told TOI over phone that a three membered committee, including him, had been formed to inquire on the matter after DM’s order. “Role of two doctors and other contractual staff at sadar hospital are being probed. Hospital manager would be removed. If found guilty, health department would be written to take action against the doctors too,” Sinha said, adding, inquiry team had spoken to the aggrieved parents. Jehanabad DM Navin Kumar told news channels that stern action would be taken against doctors and the hospital manager who were on duty. “Instruction is already there to provide ambulance to patients immediately even on common days in referral cases,” he said. In a late development, Jehanabad civil surgeon Dr Vijay Kumar Sinha said the manager of the sadar hospital, Kunal Bharti, a contractual employee, has been removed from service. "I got to know that the DM has also written for action against two doctors, who were on duty that time. However I am yet to receive the letter related to action against the doctors," he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/probe-ordered-as-3-year-old-dies-after-ambulance-denied/articleshow/75100731.cms||---
April 12, 2020||Patna||Bihar: Lockdown relief for prohibition cell||PATNA: The 21-day nationwide lockdown to prevent the spread of Covid-19 has come as a big relief for the state prohibition cell in ‘dry’ Bihar. For, no any significant seizure of liquor has been reported from any part of the state since the lockdown was enforced on March 24 midnight. “Since all the border checkposts in the 22 districts of the state have been sealed, there are little chances of illicit liquor smuggling into Bihar from outside,” a senior excise and prohibition department officer said. This is in contrast to the situation before the lockdown when quantum of alcohol seizure across the state was very high, he said. The officer, however, admitted that at a few places, some people made attempts to smuggle the consignment from neighbouring Jharkhand, but “the alert cops foiled their bid”. The officer, who monitors the operation against liquor smugglers, attributed the reason for substantial decrease in the supply of India made foreign liquor (IMFL) from Punjab, Haryana, Delhi, Himachal Pradesh, Uttar Pradesh, Madhya Pradesh, Jharkhand and West Bengal besides Nepal to stepped up surveillance on the state’s borders due to the lockdown. “Only those vehicles carrying essential commodities are being allowed to cross interstate or inter-district borders,” he said. Highlighting the preventive measures to contain liquor smuggling, he said the prohibition cell at the headquarters has deployed three officers with adequate police force at each checkpost in the 22 districts. When contacted, IG (prohibition) Amrit Raj said on Friday that the officers have been instructed to check all the vehicles engaged in transporting essential commodities before allowing them to enter the state limits. “The instruction is being followed strictly. The results are obvious,” he said, adding that no major seizure of liquor consignment has been made from any part of the state ever since the lockdown came into force. “The exercise to frisk the people and search the vehicles at the borders is aimed at preventing supply of liquor in the name of essential commodities in the state. This has been possible because the number of vehicles has decreased in the wake of lockdown,” the IG added. According to the excise and prohibition department authorities, three officers with adequate police force were working at the checkposts round-the-clock. Each team works for eight hours. On the other hand, those engaged in the illegal trade said the stock of foreign liquor exhausted much before the Holi. “We were planning to book the consignment but the lockdown poured cold water on our plan. The flourishing trade has virtually come to a grinding halt,” one of the bootleggers said. Sources said some liquor smugglers used to operate in Rohtas district, close to Jharkhand border, in the garb of police personnel. “Clad in police uniform, they escorted the trucks carrying liquor vehicles with police logo and carried licensed weapon to dodge the police and officials of the excise department,” a source in the prohibition cell said. Apart from the excise department, prohibition cell functioning under CID is the nodal agency to enforce prohibition in the state effectively.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/lockdown-relief-for-prohibition-cell/articleshow/75100681.cms||Ramashankar
April 12, 2020||Patna||Bihar: Yuva JD(U) vice-president removed from post for violating liquor law||PATNA: Leaders of Yuva JD(U), the youth wing of the state’s ruling JD(U), had to face embarrassment on Saturday after a video showing a senior party functionary dancing with a liquor bottle on Bollywood tune went viral on the social media. Sale and consumption of liquor is banned in Bihar since April 2016. The youth dancing with liquor bottle in the video clip was later identified as Vishal Gaurav, the state vice-president of Yuva JD(U). The Yuva JD(U) later removed Vishal from the post with immediate effect. “Vishal has been removed from the post of Yuva JD(U) vice-president,” Yuva JD(U) spokesperson Om Praksh Singh Setu said. Earlier, leader of opposition in state assembly Tejashwi Prasad Yadav tagged the video clip on his Twitter handle and urged CM Nitish Kumar to ensure immediate arrest of Vishal. “If this youth who is violating the rules of law is not arrested, it would clearly mean that the state government itself is involved in violation of the rules of law,” Tejashwi tweeted. Yuva JD(U)’s senior leaders were so embarrassed over the episode that none were ready to talk to this newspaper over the issue. Yuva JD(U) state president Abhay Kushwaha, who nominated Vishal to the party post just a month ago, didn’t pick up phone despite repeated calls from TOI. Vishal later claimed that the video clip in which he was seen dancing with a liquor bottle was filmed at a hotel in Kathmandu (Nepal) in October 2019, around six months prior to his elevation in the party. Vishal claimed he had gone to Kathmandu on October 8 last year and stayed at a hotel. “Since the clip is related to Nepal, I didn’t violate the liquor law effective in Bihar,” Vishal said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/yuva-jdu-vp-removed-from-post-for-violating-liquor-law/articleshow/75100712.cms||Madan Kumar
April 12, 2020||Surat||Lockdown: Surat deputy mayor holds event, video goes viral||SURAT: The city’s deputy mayor Nirav Shah and 17 others were booked for illegal assembly by defying prohibitory orders after their video of theirs gathering at a religious programme went viral on the social media. Adajan police took sou motu cognizance of the video and lodged a complaint on Friday after verifying its authenticity. The BJP leader and otehrs were also booked under sections of Epidemic Diseases Act for negligent act that can spread infection of disease dangerous to life.   In the video, Shah along with others are seen discussing something and taking blessings of Jain monks. Sources close to the development informed that Shah made the event live on his Facebook page as well. The meeting was held at Guru Ram Pawan Bhumi in Pal on Friday morning. Police visited the spot in evening after the video went viral. Though Shah and others have covered their faces with masks, they allegedly violated the mandatory social distancing Shah, who is the BJP councillor from Adajan-Gorat ward, defended the event and claimed that they had observed social distancing norms. "We had gathered to start work for animal and birds suffering in the current lockdown. We were maintaining social distancing and it was necessary to call all the volunteers and give them instructions them,” Shah claimed. Shah is seen making announcement about the donations of charitable persons. "The volunteers gathered to take blessings of the monks and it was not a religious function. To do some good work it was necessary to call a meeting. Some people intentionally made the video of the entire event viral in which some of the participants are seen at close distance," Shah added. Along with Shah, his associates Sanjay Shah, Nitin Shah and 15 were booked. The complaint was lodged by Pravin Oghavwala, head constable in Adajan police station. "We have started taking statements of those present at the event. The investigation is at preliminary stage at present," said an official from Adajan police station. The police have not made any arrests yet. R B Brahmbhatt, city police commissioner, said, "From the video, it looks like social distancing was being maintained. After proper investigation, we will take further actions.” Watch Shocking! Surat deputy mayor violates lockdown and holds event, video goes viral||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/bjp-deputy-mayor-booked-for-organizing-meeting-of-volunteers/articleshow/75102017.cms||---
April 12, 2020||Nashik||‘Act against shops for not following safety norms’||NASHIK: Municipal commissioner Radhakrishna Game on Saturday directed the civic officials concerned to take action against shops and outlets that are found to be violating social distancing norms as well as not taking safety measures such as wearing masks and hand gloves. He also said that action will be taken against vegetable vendors who are not following lockdown norms. Vegetable vendors who are allowed to operate at 105 locations identified by the Nashik Municipal Corporation (NMC) have been asked to sell vegetables and fruits only till 4pm. Game said that strict action will be initiated against them if they are found selling vegetables after 4pm. Expressing concern about lockdown rule violators, Game has issued a fresh circular directing officials to take action against such people. NMC has set safety guidelines for outlets selling essentials items and vegetables. These norms include maintaining distance of at least one metre between consumers and retailers and five meters between two outlets or vegetable vendors. Moreover, it is also mandatory to wear face masks and hand gloves, but most of the retailers an vendors are not following these guidelines set by the civic body, Game said. The municipal corporation has also banned selling vegetables on mobile hand carts.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/act-against-shops-for-not-following-safety-norms/articleshow/75102463.cms||Tushar Pawar
April 12, 2020||Ranchi||In testing times, city churches go online as devotees mark Good Friday in isolation||Ranchi: Churches in Ranchi embraced technology with most of them live-streaming Good Friday mass services by priests as thousands of faithful listened to them from the confines of their homes due to the lockdown imposed to curb the spread of the novel coronavirus. Behind closed doors of empty churches, priests comemmorated the crucifixion and death of Jesus Christ and offered prayers for all those suffering due to the Covid-19 outbreak. The ceremonies at all mainline churches were live-streamed for the benefit of the faithful. This is the first time Good Friday and Easter mass was live-streamed in the state. In a recorded Easter message that was uploaded on the portal of the 175-year-old Gossner Evangelical Lutheran (GEL) Church, moderator Johan Dang said, “He died for us to deliver us from evil. He suffered for more than six hours, first carrying the Cross and later nailed to it and left to bleed to death. By becoming a man, Jesus made himself weak so that he could live among us. Through his death, Jesus brought us closer to God.” At the more than a century-old St Mary's Cathedral at Purulia Road in the state capital, Ranchi archbishop Felix Toppo, assisted by four pastors, prostrated, before the altar before commencing the Good Friday mass on Friday evening behind closed doors and without the presence of people. More than a thousand devotees from across the state witnessed the mass live-streamed from the Cathedral. “God loves us all. He endured insults, physical torture and finally death to demonstrate his love for mankind and to deliver us from evil,” Toppo archbishop said. Churches across the city closed their doors for the public in the third week of March after temples and other places of public importance were shut to prevent the spread of Covid-19. Though members of various churches were asked to pray from their homes, a few of them planned to live-stream the proceedings on a daily basis. Since Good Friday and Easter on Sunday are considered to be important and solemn occasions for Christians, the majority of churches ensured that prayers are live-streamed so that people can pray from their homes. Senior tribal leader Prabhakar Tirkey, when asked of his experience of attending virtual Easter services said live-streaming the service was a good decision. “I never heard of a virtual service before — the lockdown has made me more tech-savvy. I am watching the live-streaming of services on my laptop along with my family. It’s different, because the priest is on a screen. We are staying indoors only to keep everyone safe. Amid this crisis, these services have brought my family and me closer to God,” he said. Another faithful, Jaya Ekka of Kanke area in Ranchi, said that despite facing audio problems due to slow internet speed, the virtual service was a welcome move. “I got to know about the live-streaming of Easter services through my local church. It was difficult to understand how to access the stream, but my son helped me access the Easter ceremony on my phone. When the Internet lags, the mass suddenly gets cut off. But connecting with God through my mobile phone was a novel experience,” she said. Sitting in front of a desktop computer Seema Tirkey from Kanke Road, said, “In all the 60 years of my life, I have never seen anything like a virtual services. I liked the idea, but I miss that moment in church when you say, ‘Peace be with you,’ to complete strangers and they smile back.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/in-testing-times-city-churches-go-online-as-devotees-mark-good-friday-in-isolation/articleshow/75096837.cms||Tapas Biswas
April 12, 2020||Ranchi||Rs 1k likely for labourers stuck in other states||Ranchi: Chief minister Hemant Soren on Friday convened a marathon meeting for four hours with all public representatives of the state, including MLAs and MPs, through video conferencing and took stock of the situation in the wake of a spurt in the number of positive cases of Covid-19. A common concern that came in from the MLAs was related to relief for labourers from Jharkhand stuck in other states. The CM admitted that he has a data which shows approximately seven lakh labourers from the state are stuck in other states. “This number may come down to four or five lakh after cross verification, but as of now, the maximum number of labourers at 2.5 lakh are from Giridih,” he said. CPI(ML)’s lone MLA Vinod Singh from Giridih requested the CM to extend cash relief to the labourers through DBT. He also asked the CM to make provisions for linking MLALAD funds so that they can send some cash to the labourers in distress. The government is now mulling sending around Rs 1,000 to the accounts of labourers from the government coffers. “We request all the legislators and parliamentarians to help us collect the exact name, aadhaar number and bank account numbers of these labourers so that cash relief could be sent to them through DBT,” Hemant said. BJP’s Deoghar MLA Randhir Singh sought testing facility in his district, a common request from many others, to which the CM said, as per the Centre’s guidelines, only three cities — Ranchi, Jamshedpur and Dhanbad — qualify for Covid-19 testing laboratories. “We have made the Dhanbad centre functional and have been restricted from extending the facility at the district level,” he said. Soren also informed the representatives that the state is heavily dependent on the Centre now. Pradeep Yadav from Godda said government officials not available on phone, to which, chief secretary Sukhdev Singh said most of them are getting hundreds of calls every day. Singhbhum MP Geeta Koda and Jamshedpur MP Bidyut Baran Mahato asked the government to increase the number of tests being conducted and remain prepared to handle the situation once the lockdown is lifted. “Thousands of labourers will come back and it will be challenging to track them and test each one of them before they mix up with the general population,” Koda said. Earlier in the day, Soren chaired the all party meeting at the Project Building where he requested representatives of all political parties to come out in support of the government’s initiative for screening as much as possible. “I would urge with folded hands to identify people coming from other states and encourage them to turn up for Covid-19 tests. Nearly two lakh people have come back to the state just before and after the lockdown and 1.7 lakh have been identified, but it is essential to track down the remaining 30,000 people,” he said. On complaints of various political outfits, the CM agreed that the communal environment in the state is being disturbed by miscreants and said, “We have instructed our civil and police administration to keep a close watch on such activities and action has been taken against those trying to disrupt social and communal harmony.” Meanwhile, JMM general secretary Supriyo Bhattacharya suggested distribution of vitamin C and D tablets through PDS shops to help improve general immunity of people. State Congress president Rameshwar Oraon, who is also a state minister, informed that apart from the Centre’s assurance, the state has made provisions of Rs 200 crore for food security.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/rs-1k-likely-for-labourers-stuck-in-other-states/articleshow/75096904.cms||Jaideep Deogharia
April 12, 2020||Ranchi||Use ‘gamchhas’ as masks, says Hemant||Ranchi: With Prime Minister Narendra Modi commending TOI for the ‘Mask India’ campaign, chief minister Hemant Soren on Friday asked MLAs to encourage people of Jharkhand to use ‘gamchhas’ (desi towels) as masks and let the medical masks be preserved for frontline health professionals. In a video conference with MLAs and MPs from all 24 districts through, Hemant asked the elected lawmakers to educate people about the use of everyday clothes as masks. Responding to BJP’s Hazaribag MLA Manish Jaiswal’s request to provide medical masks for distribution, the CM said, “You have scientific temperament and who else can tell people better than you to use gamchhas as masks and let medical masks be available for frontline health professionals.” Hemant added that the state government has placed an order for medical masks with the Centre, but they would be supplied to professionals who are at the frontline of the fight against Covid-19. “Since several such things are in short supply, we have to manage what is available judiciously and help provide frontline workers with maximum protection,” he said. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/use-gamchhas-as-masks-says-hemant/articleshow/75096933.cms||---
April 12, 2020||Pune||Voluntary containment in PCMC fringes||Pimpri Chinchwad: Residents of fringe areas of the city have decided to observe a complete lockdown in their respective villages to prevent the spread of Covid-19. After PCMC sealed a part of Chikhli and Dighi on April 8 following a few positive cases, residents panicked and sought a complete lockdown. Consequently, Chikhali, Moshi, Dighi and Bhosari are observing a three-day shutdown till April 13. Only medical stores and hospitals were allowed to be open. Former mayor and BJP corporator from Charholi Nitin Kalje said his area too would be locked till Monday. “Residents are observing a complete lockdown till April 13,” Kalje said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/voluntary-containment-in-pcmc-fringes/articleshow/75102462.cms||Siddharth Gaikwad
April 12, 2020||Kolkata||Normal bakery ops news brings in Easter cheer||Kolkata: In the midst of the news that the lockdown has been extended, the chief minister’s reassurance of bakeries resuming normal operations, albeit with necessary precautions, has made the city Christians happy. The community that will be celebrating Easter from Sunday spent Saturday, which is known as Easter Vigil, in prayers. While production had been limited in most bakeries for the past few days, the CM’s message was interpreted as a go-ahead for cakes and Easter goodies like buns, marzipans and eggs to be produced as well. This year, however, there will be no visiting friends and relatives for feasts and no egg hunt. “We are happy that we have been able to take some orders, though it is way lower than the other years,” said Debbie Saldanha, owner of the popular bakery. Owners of other bakeries, like Cookie Jar, rued the fact that the extension of the lockdown has spread panic among workers and could affect them adversely. “We might not be able to operate beyond Sunday,” said Lovey Burman, the owner. Vigil Saturday mass, webcast by the Archdiocese of Kolkata, was viewed by parishioners of 65 churches of the Roman Catholic order. Archbishop Thomas D Souza explained the meaning of the Vigil and the importance of lighting the Pascal candle. Throughout his speech, D Souza remembered the everyday heroes, like doctors and nurses, who are making the Covid fight possible. He also spoke about common people, like the woman who drove thousands of km to get her son home. “This year’s Easter is special, the Vigil candle lights give us hope to defeat the pandemic,” said vicar general Dominic Gomes.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/normal-bakery-ops-news-brings-in-easter-cheer/articleshow/75102328.cms||---
April 12, 2020||Surat||81 held for rioting, served hot meal in police station||Surat: Eighty-one migrant labourers were arrested by police from Laskana area of the city on Saturday for blocking a road and torching a few handcarts the previous night. Over 1,000 labourers came on to the road and shouted slogans against lockdown, demanding that they be allowed to return to their native state. Majority of the labourers in Laskana are employed in textile weaving units and are from Odisha, police said. Police arrested the accused from the spot and those who were not 18 years of age were detained. The labourers were kept in two different police stations and served hot meal under the supervision of senior police officials on Saturday. A video that has gone viral on social media shows how police made the arrested labourers feel comfortable and also served them food. Police even got clothes of some workers, who were not properly dressed, collected from their homes. "The labourers were provided puris, vegetables and rice. They are not criminals, just upset that they can’t go home. We tried to convince them that they should trust the administration and cooperate with it during the period of lockdown," said H R Mulyana, additional commissioner of police, (traffic and crime). "We told the labourers that we are here to take their proper care. We informed them that lockdown in Odisha has been extended until April 30 and there was no meaning in returning to their native state now,” he added.Police carried out a 3.5km flag march with 50 vehicles in Laskana and made announcement in Odiya language asking people to maintain peace. Police also provided food and counselled migrant labourers caught for rioting in Pandesara's Vadod area. "Police counselled the workers and encouraged them to convince others to cooperate with the administration in ensuring peace in the area. The labourers held the protest because they want to go home,” police commissioner R B Brahmbhatt said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/81-held-for-rioting-served-hot-meal-in-police-station/articleshow/75102041.cms||---
April 12, 2020||Surat||Asha workers face ire of Unn residents during health survey||Surat: Asha workers were humiliated and bombarded with expletives during a health survey to assess spread of COVID-19 by residents of Unn a few days ago.Asha workers had visited housing colonies in Unn in Pandesara, which is under the jurisdiction of Surat Municipal Corporation’s (SMC) Udhana zone. Asha workers had to face people’s ire for enquiring if they were suffering from cough, cold and fever in some of the residential colonies of Unn.Health officials stated that the residents snatched away identity cards of Asha workers and let loose a stream of expletives at them. The residents thought that Asha workers were seeking their details for NCR and CAA.Dr Keshav Vaishnav, health officer of Udhana zone, told TOI, “The incident was reported a few days ago. Asha workers were given the task to carry out health survey across the city. At a few of the residential societies in Unn, Asha workers had to face humiliation from the residents.”Vaishnav added, “We reported the incident to the respective police station and sought protection for Asha workers. However, things have settled down in Unn and people are now cooperating with Asha workers. Earlier, the residents were under the impression that they were being surveyed for NCR and CAA.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/asha-workers-face-ire-of-unn-residents-during-health-survey/articleshow/75102051.cms||---
April 12, 2020||Nagpur||NMC expands its containment area as nephew of 1st deceased tests positive||Nagpur: A nephew (53) of man from Satranjipura, who was city’s first Covid-19 deceased, also tested positive on Saturday taking the total number of positive persons from the same family to eight. As this person resides in an adjoining area, the Nagpur Municipal Corporation (NMC) increased containment zone upto Ward 22. Earlier, areas it was limited to areas in in Ward 21 with deceased’s house as epicentre.The nephew was in close contact with the deceased. He also took possession of deceased’s body for funeral. He was among four who attended the funeral at Bagadganj kabrastan. He is said to run a travel agency. The 68-year-old had died on April 5. His reports came positive on April 6.NMC additional medical officer health Dr Praveen Gantawar told TOI, “Five family members of the nephew including mother, wife and three children were identified, examined and quarantined. All close contacts of nephew too will be traced on Sunday,” he said.As of now, NMC has traced, examined and quarantined 48 persons after the death of the person. To prevent further spread of virus, municipal commissioner Tukaram Mundhe on Saturday expanded the containment zone.Earlier, areas situated within Government OBC Girls Hostel, Rachana Complex, Juna Motor Stand chowk, Marwadi Chowk T-point were notified as containment zone in Ward 21 under NMC Satranjipura zone.Now it includes Mahal-Gandhibagh zone with house of nephew at Bairagipura as centre and comprises all areas within AMA Company Maldhakka road (North-East), Umiya Shankar School (South-East), Masurkar chowk (South-west), Hotel Madina Maaldhakka road (North-west), Bauddhisatva Bauddh Vihar and Sunil Hotel (East).Residents of these areas cannot go outside except for emergencies like funeral, medical services. Selling essential goods will be allowed subject to permission from police. Corporator Nitin Sathwane told TOI, “NMC and police are also restricting vendors selling milk and vegetables which is not proper. I requested the NMC to allow some vegetable vendors to install kiosks at the border of containment zone so people can get vegetables but it was turned down. Some people residing in these areas are fruit sellers and are having stock. They want to dispose of the stock,” he said.Gantawar denied there were any such restrictions on vendors of essential goods. “We are taking care of each and every requirement of the people.”The reports of son-in-law, other family members and close contacts including family of hardware shop where son (positive) used to work are awaited. Takia Deewanshah and Mominpura, which too are notified as containment zone after a resident there tested positive, are near this zone.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/nmc-expands-its-containment-area-as-nephew-of-1st-deceased-tests-positive/articleshow/75101994.cms||Anjaya Anparthi
April 12, 2020||Allahabad||BHU hosp runs telemedicine OPD for general patients||Varanasi: Sir Sunderlal Hospital of Banaras Hindu University which is fully equipped with level-3 facilities to meet the challenge of COVID-19 outbreak is also running a telemedicine OPD for the general patients. The unique thing about is the fact that it is catering to the needs of people wishing to consult the doctors from their homes. The doctors of five departments as per the duty roster are providing their services from 9 am to 5 pm. “On an average, over 250 patients from eastern UP and other states consult the doctors every day. Most of them are old patients needing follow up consultation,” said the BHU spokesperson Rajesh Singh. The telemedicine OPD started functioning from April 7 on the instruction of the vice chancellor Prof. Rakesh Bhatnagar. “The telemedicine OPD is proving a sigh of relief to the patients, as the general OPDs were closed after the outbreak of COVID-19. As the hospital caters to a big population covering the districts of eastern UP, Bihar, Jharkhand and other neighbouring states, the doctors are receiving calls from these areas,” Rajesh said. “Presently, doctors of five departments including general medicine, general surgery, pediatrics, gynecology and orthopedics are providing their services through telemedicine OPD. The service can be extended if required,” he added. The VC had instructed to ensure smooth running of telemedicine facilities. He had also asked the officials of the Institute of Medical Sciences to ensure smooth functioning of emergency services of the hospital other than COVID-19. The BHU hospital has been declared level-3 category for the treatment of COVID-19 patients after the outbreak of coronavirus. The super speciality block of the hospital is fully equipped with a 40-bed ICU, besides all other emergency services. The hospital is also ready to take care of the level-1 patients referred from district hospital. Besides, 200 rooms for quarantine purpose have also been arranged for the health professionals including doctors, nurses and other supporting staff at New Nursing Hostel, LD Guest House and the building of psychology department.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/allahabad/bhu-hosp-runs-telemedicine-opd-for-general-patients/articleshow/75101459.cms||---
April 12, 2020||Surat||No updates on health will invite penalty||Surat: Home quarantined people will have to pay penalty if they don’t update their health report twice a day on the Covid-19 tracker app as mandated by the Surat Municipal Corporation (SMC). Municipal commissioner Banchhanidhi Pani said, “We have come across cases where home quarantined people are not updating their daily health report. Now, people suffering from acute respiratory infections (ARI) will also have to download this app for better monitoring of their cases.”He informed that in order to prevent spread of the Covid-19, 22 vegetable markets have been shut down on Saturday where social distancing was not being followed. "On Saturday, 220 people were fined for not following social distancing and 175 for not wearing masks in public places. We have quarantined the area near Lambe Hanuman Road where around 883 people live, after positive case was reported there. The area has been barricaded,'' Pani added. Meanwhile, a 32-year-old man working Surat National Cooperative Bank at Udhna tested positive on Saturday, taking the total cases in the city to 26. Health officials said that Ankur Varsoliwala, a resident of Ghamlavad in Salabatpura, tested positive during community sampling. The entire building where the bank is located was disinfected and sanitised and employees have been asked to stay home quarantined.Varsoliwala has no travel history and shifted to the isolation ward of the New Civil hospital and 10 of his close contacts were shifted to the government quarantine facility at Samras Hostel.Meanwhile, the Agriculture Produce Market Committeehas issued a public notice urging vendors and traders from mass quarantined area in Rander not to visit the Sardar market yard for purchasing vegetables due to the prevailing situation.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/no-updates-on-health-will-invite-penalty/articleshow/75102047.cms||---
April 12, 2020||Patna||Call to maintain social distancing||BIHARSHARIF: The Nalanda district administration on Saturday asked Biharsharif SDM Janardhan Aggarwal and Sadar SDPO Imran Perwez to ensure that the wholesale vegetable market in the town is shifted from Bazar Samiti to Deepnagar stadium by Sunday. The instruction came following reports that social distancing was not being maintained at the vegetable market. Meanwhile, poultry and other non-vegetarian shops reopened in the town on Friday following the intervention of the district administration. However, there were few customers at these shops. Anil Kumar Gupta, a resident of Chandni Kalali, said it’s better to avoid non-vegetarian food under the present circumstances though they are safe from coronavirus. Mohd Saad of Sherpur, owner of a poultry shop, said people have virtually stopped eating non-vegetarian food. “Prices of chicken have crashed to as low as Rs 40 per kg from Rs 120 per kg,” he said. Saad, however, said prices of grocery items, such as rice, flour, pulses and edible oil have skyrocketed in the town after the lockdown. Biharsharif SDM Janardhan Aggarwal said action has been taken against owners of several grocery shops for increasing prices of different items.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/call-to-maintain-social-distancing/articleshow/75100781.cms||Farrukh Nadim
April 12, 2020||Patna||Ensure harvesting of Rabi crops: Bihar CM Nitish Kumar to chief secretary||PATNA: Hours after participating in PM Narendra Modi’s videoconferencing with the chief ministers, Bihar CM Nitish Kumar on Saturday asked state’s chief secretary Deepak Kumar to ensure that the farmers do not face any difficulty in harvesting Rabi crops. “District magistrates should personally monitor the harvesting operation and ensure that the farmers and farm labourers harvest their crops without hassles,” the CM told the chief secretary at a review meeting. The state government, sources said, has received complaints from different quarters that police have been harassing farm labourers and stopping them from harvesting Rabi crops in view of the lockdown. The CM also said at the review meeting that the state government is running three types of hospitals to ensure proper treatment of suspected and positive Covid-19 patients. “For people with mild symptoms, we are running Covid care centres, for those having moderate symptoms, there are Covid health centres and the people with serious symptoms are trated at Covid hospitals,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/ensure-harvesting-of-rabi-crops-nitish-to-chief-secretary/articleshow/75100915.cms||---
April 12, 2020||Patna||Private clinics in Gaya to reopen partially on Sunday||GAYA: More than 24 private clinics in the town will reopen on Sunday with reduced working hours following a request made by Gaya DM Abhishek Singh. The clinics offer specialised services like ENT (ear, nose and throat), psychiatry, nephrology and paediatric. Pathologists and radiologists have also responded to the DM’s call. Though private medical facilities have been kept out of the lockdown purview, the Gaya practitioners downed their shutters on the ground that they do not have the wherewithal to ensure social distancing and also lacked personal protection gear. Dr Ram Sewak Prasad Singh, president of the district chapter of the Indian Medical Association (IMA), said doctors in Gaya would now attend patients even at a personal risk. “The clinics will remain open for 2-3 hours a day depending on the convenience of the practitioners. Some practitioners will only attend patients having prior appointment,” he said. Meanwhile, the Gaya DM has asked the SDOs to expedite the issuance of ration card to the needy by engaging the office staff in two shifts of eight-hour duration each. Gaya Sadar SDO informed the DM that 20,000 new ration cards would be issued in the next two weeks.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/private-clinics-in-gaya-to-reopen-partially-today/articleshow/75100742.cms||Abdul Qadir
April 12, 2020||Patna||Bihar: ‘32 teachers died as salaries not paid’||PATNA: The Bihar State Secondary Teachers’ Association (BSSTA) has alleged that around 32 contractual teachers, who are on strike, have died in the past one month due to “stress owing to non-payment of salaries”. BSSTA general secretary Shatrughan Prasad Singh claimed that many of them died due to lack of proper treatment. Additional chief secretary of education department RK Mahajan, however, refuted the allegations levelled by the teachers’ association, calling them “baseless”. “Around 32 teachers have died in the past one month because they were not paid salaries for several months. Many of them were suspended by the education department for joining the protest and cases were also lodged against them,” Singh told this newspaper on Saturday, adding, “It’s a shame that the state government is least bothered about the teachers, who diligently worked for the state.” He further said, “Several teachers died due to heart attack, brain haemorrhage and lack of proper treatment due to financial crisis and few of them committed suicide. Now, who would look after their family members? Even in this situation, the state government is not releasing the backlog salaries of teachers.” The association has also written a letter to education minister Krishna Nandan Prasad Verma, asking him to revoke the suspension of “niyojit teachers”, who are on strike since February. They also demanded the payment of salary of teachers. Shalini Kumari (38), widow of Sanjay Kumar (43), who taught history at Rajendra Collegiate Chappra, told this newspaper over phone that her husband was the sole bread earner. “He was disturbed over the last few weeks as he did not receive his salary since December last. He was on suspension as well. On April 9, he complained of chest pain and died on his way to hospital due to heart attack,” she said. Sanjay is survived by his wife, 10- year- old daughter, mother and father Satya Dev Prasad. Ram Sanyog Sada (48), another contractual teacher in Bathnaha block of Sitamarhi, died in Patna on April 1 after complaining of breathlessness and chest pain. Sada’s nephew Ranjit Kumar said his uncle was depressed and his condition deteriorated on April 1. “We admitted him at Muzaffarpur Sadar Hospital but the doctors referred him to PMCH, Patna, where he breathed his last,” he said. He added: “My aunt, Mala Devi and cousin Khushboo (16) are in shock as my uncle was the sole bread earner.” Uma Devi (39), broke down recalling the untimely death of her husband Amin Kumar, a contractual teacher at Haveli Kharagpur block in Munger. “I and my husband were alone on April 1, when he suddenly started sweating. I could not even take him to hospital and he died in front of my eyes. He was much worried due to Covid-19 and non-payment of salary. What will I do without him,” she asked. Her son Nitish Raj (20), was at his sister’s home when his father passed away. “My son could not return home due to the lockdown,” she added. Opposition leaders, including Tejashwi Prasad Yadav and Jitan Ram Manjhi, have expressed concerns over the issue. RJD leader Tejashwi tweeted on Saturday: “Contractual teachers, who were on strike and later returned to work, should get their salary. The state government should not take discriminatory actions against like non-payment of salary for their strike period during such pandemic situation (sic).” Jitan Ram Manjhi, HAM(S) president said, “One person has died in the state due to Covid-19, while 42 contractual teachers have died due to wrong policies of the state government.” Additional chief secretary, education, RK Mahajan told this newspaper that the allegations levelled by the teachers’ association were baseless. “We have paid the salary to everyone till January. Despite the appeal by CM Nitish Kumar, education minister and by me, teachers did not return to work,” he said. He added: “They are attributing the routine deaths to the strike. On an average, a government teacher received Rs 30,000 salary. Their allegations are totally baseless.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/32-teachers-died-as-salaries-not-paid/articleshow/75100764.cms||Faryal Rumi
April 12, 2020||Aurangabad||GMCH staff transfer on hold, told to help in current set-up||Aurangabad: The 18 faculty members of the Aurangabad Government Medical College and Hospital (GMCH), who were earlier transferred to newly opened Nandurbar GMCH, have been told to wait back and help in the Covid-19 management. Nandurbar GMCH dean Shivaji Sukre on Saturday temporarily relieved all the professors, assistant professors, associate professors and other teachers in clinical and non-clinical borrowed from other government medical colleges across the state and working at the Nandurbar GMCH. Earlier, the 18 faculty members from Aurangabad GMCH were deployed to Nandurbar GMCH to help the newly opened medical college to meet the standards of the Medical Council of India. According to the revised strategy for Covid-19 management in the city, the different centres have been designated to handle the different levels of Covid-19 screening and management. This has streamlined the system. According to the strategy, 12 fever clinics spread across the city will see patients with symptoms, travel history, and contact history. After initial screening, the patients who are found to be suspected will be sent to the four Covid-19 care centres. If tested negative they will be sent home with advice to home quarantine, if tested positive they will be sent to the dedicated covid health centres. The facility includes the district civil hospital, the MGM hospital and the Dhoot Hospital, where the patients with pneumonia and no severe disease are treated. The GMCH Aurangabad, which is also the only state-run tertiary care hospital in the district, has been identified as the dedicated Covid hospital. The GMCH has, therefore, shifted its Covid-19 ward from cardiovascular thoracic surgery (CVTS) building to medicine building. GMCH medical superintendent Suresh Harbade said that the shifting was completed on Friday. “The patients from the medical ward are shifted to the surgical building and to the CVTS building following its disinfection,” he said. Harbade said that till Friday there were no Covid-19 cases at GMCH. “Being a tertiary care centre, GMCH will be taking care of only those cases which are severe and require ventilator or Bipap machine support,” he said. Arvind Gaikwad, the nodal officer said there are total 100 beds at Covid-19 facility including a 10-bedded critical care unit.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/gmch-staff-transfer-on-hold-told-to-help-in-current-set-up/articleshow/75101311.cms||---
April 12, 2020||Varanasi||Seven more Tablighis emerge in Varanasi zone||Varanasi: The repeated appeals from the government and district administrations of people who attended the Tablighi Jamaat congregations in Delhi and elsewhere seem to be falling on deaf ears. Police, however, succeeded in tracing out seven more such individuals in its exercise till Saturday morning. The detection of seven more Tablighi Jamaat event attendees in the ongoing police search operation has taken their number to 222 in Varanasi zone. ADG Varanasi zone Brij Bhushan said, “Till April 9, Azamgarh police had found 36 Tablighi Jamaat attendees, while in past 48 hours two more were found there after which their figure in this district rose to 38. Mau cops also found two more Tablighi Jamaat event attendees taking their number in the district to 26.” One each Tablighi Jamaat event participant was also found in Ghazipur, Mirzapur and Jaunpur, he said. So far, 43 Tablighi Jamaat members have been found in Varanasi, 16, including 11 Bangladeshis, in Bhadohi, four in Chandauli and 17 in Sonbhadra. Among the 25 Covid-19 positive cases in Varanasi zone so far, 17 are Tablighi Jamaat event attendees and people connected to them, the ADG said. We are ensuring lockdown implementation and are taking action against the violators. As many as 2,106 FIRs have been registered in 10 districts under the zone and 3,059 arrested in this connection so far, said Bhushan. Besides, police have arrested 32 people for over pricing and black marketing of essential goods and lodged 73 FIRs under appropriate sections of essential commodities act. Police have also seized 4,268 vehicles and challaned 50,019 vehicles and realised Rs 20.92 lakh in penalty so far.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/varanasi/seven-more-tablighis-emerge-in-varanasi-zone/articleshow/75101511.cms||---
April 12, 2020||Goa||Rotarians donate 100 acrylic units||Panaji: To help doctors, nurses and healthcare workers in their fight against coronavirus (Covid-19) in Goa, 100 safety face shields have been given free of cost to the directorate of health services (DHS) by the Rotary Club of Panaji Mid-Town. Members said that a senior consultant pathologist from sub-district hospital, Ponda, texted his contacts about the urgent requirement of face shields. “We tried our best to source them, but the shields were not available,” club's director of youth services, Siddha Sardessai said. The Rotarians then decided to try making their own shields using bent acrylic and a construction helmet harness.“The product covers the face and the ears too. It has a sturdy and robust design, adjustable head gear for comfort, is easy to sanitise and reusable,” said Sardessai.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/rotarians-donate-100-acrylic-units/articleshow/75102479.cms||---
April 12, 2020||Ahmedabad||I have diabetes, can I contract covid-19?||AHMEDABAD: Husband of Sunita Parmar (name changed), a resident of Ahmedabad, called up 1100 helpline recently to ask the psychiatrist on the line to talk to his wife. “She had got paranoid about anything from outside the home. She not only ensured that everything in her home is sanitized but also got her son to bathe five times a day,” said a psychiatrist with the helpline. “On the top of it, she believed that she had contacted COVID-19 without any medical consultation – as she had heard that many of the patients were diabetic – and insisted that nobody should come near her,” said a psychiatrist with the helpline. As the intended 21-day lockdown is coming to its last leg, the calls to the helpline have increased, said state health department officials, as experts field questions ranging from confirming the symptoms to quelling citizens’ post-lockdown anxieties. Dr Ajay Chauhan, superintendent of Government Hospital for Mental Health (HMH), said that the most common calls are related to ‘COVID phobia.’ “Few now can’t even stand the name and have refrained from consuming any details on the viral infection. We also suggest to such patients to restrict their exposure to the information in public domain and not to believe any rumours circulated on social media platforms,” he said, adding that the helpline is fielding over 300 queries since its inception. “Different age groups are coping with the lockdown differently – in a recent case we received, a man was part of the gig economy and was just out of one job before lockdown. He’s constantly worried about whether he would get employment again and goes into a state where he forgets what he’s doing – eating or talking to someone or simply walking,” said Dr Ramashanker Yadav, a psychiatrist with the helpline. “Those living alone or without children also call up to share the anxiety – the most common complaint we get is lack of proper sleep.” Dr Deepti Bhatt, a psychiatrist who is part of the consulting team, said that there is no apparent urban-rural divide. “It’s a phenomenon that has affected almost all and thus we are also getting several calls from towns and villages too. In most cases, we ask the callers to maintain a routine, follow good eating practices and connect with their families,” she said, adding that they would soon organize a special event for the workforce fighting COVID-19 from the frontline as they are also under constant duress.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/i-have-diabetes-can-i-contract-covid/articleshow/75102000.cms||---
April 12, 2020||Bhopal||Congress MP seeks President rule in MP||BHOPAL: Senior Congress leader and Rajya Sabha member Vivek Tankha on Saturday wrote to Governor Lalji Tandon for imposition of President's Rule in Madhya Pradesh due to "unconstitutional governance" of the state during Covid-19 crisis. “The situation in Indore is grave with the highest percentage of recorded deaths. Indore has been declared a corona hotspot. Bhopal suffers the agony of administrative collapse of health department with 45-plus IAS & other officials posted in the secretariat/offices having tested positive. Other towns, though ostensibly safe, have negligible testing to boast. The bureaucratic / police response of the state to the pandemic is pathetic. Now action under ESMA against doctors, health workers and others has been announced by CM on the advice of bureaucrats while the country -- including the entire opposition -- is united as one in the fight against the pandemic on the call of the Prime Minister,” he has written. “If the Chief Minister is unable to form his Cabinet because of issues beyond his control, then a case of breakdown of constitutional machinery will be self-evident in the state of Madhya Pradesh, warranting the Union to consider the imposition of President's Rule in the state,” he wrote. “I feel compelled to write against the illegally designed & poorly conceived one-man show unconstitutionally thrust upon 7.5 crore people of Madhya Pradesh. This shenanigan gravely impacts and imperils the war against coronavirus. P 4||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/congress-mp-seeks-president-rule-in-mp/articleshow/75101996.cms||---
April 12, 2020||Jaipur||Mask task: Small efforts of SHGs make big difference||Kota: Anticipating rise in the demand for masks in the wake of coronavirus pandemic, the social development manager of Kota Municipal Corporation’s National Urban Livelihood Mission uploaded a video on mask-making on its Nari Shakti’s Whatsapp group which resulted into the employment of 39 women members of 11 SHGs. In the last 23 days, the self-help groups have fetched orders for 62,000 masks out of which 51,200 masks have been delivered generating a revenue of Rs 5 lakh. Sensing a rise in demand of the masks, Hemlata Gandhi, the social development manager of DAY-NULM, KMC, Kota, on March 18 had uploaded a video on mask-making. Soon, a few masks which were prepared for the competition were sold out and the money landed in the hands of the SHGs members. Encouraged by the response, members of SHGs expressed keen interest in making more masks. On March 21, Gandhi uploaded a video of preparing masks on her FaceBook page and within hours, orders for masks started pouring in. Gandhi then sought guidelines for standards of masks from the medical and health department and instructed the SHG members to sew 18x8cm, three-layered cotton masks. But getting cloth and other materials for the masks was difficult. When Gandhi discussed the problem with KMC commissioner Vasudev Malawat, he made special efforts and the group members could get the materials from a shop in Indira Market. Gandhi told them that the first big order was for 10,000 masks. A single piece of elastic stringed mask costs Rs 8 and ones with thread string cost Rs 10. “Currently 39 women of 11 SHGs are engaged in making masks and they have already made 52,000 pieces. Out of them, 51,200 masks have been delivered generating an earning of over Rs 5 lakh for the SHGs,” Gandhi said. The current demand for masks is for 62,000 pieces and they have been receiving orders from other districts. But unavailability of transportation during the lockdown is a big hurdle in delivery, she added. Members of the SHGs who have been deprived of earning from daily labour due to the lockdown are now earning Rs 300-400 per day by making masks, she said. Special stress is being laid on social distancing while making the masks and each member of the SHGs is making masks individually at their homes and customers are asked to put the payment and collect the order from the doorsteps of the SHG members’ houses. Impressed by the performance of Kota NULM SHGs, director and ex-officio joint secretary, local self government, Ujjwal Rathore on Thursday sent a letter to commissioner/executive officer of all local bodies of the state and requested them to get SHGs of DAY-NULM engaged in making masks in the wake of rising demand.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/mask-task-small-efforts-of-shgs-make-big-difference/articleshow/75102008.cms||---
April 12, 2020||Nashik||Collector for throat swab testing lab in Nashik dist||NASHIK: District collector Suraj Mandhare on Saturday underlined the need for a dedicated throat swab sample testing laboratory in Nashik district to fight the Covid-19 infection, which has already entered the community transmission phase in the Malegaon town. “Within a span of 48 hours, Malegaon has reported 11 cases including one death. The confirmed Covid-19 patient who died in Dhule government hospital is also from Malegaon. We can assume that there is community transmission as because neither did the deceased person have any travel history, nor did people move out of the town,” said Mandhare. The district collector warned people in Malegaon town against needlessly venturing out of their homes. “Even at this point, if people continue to move out, the number of confirmed cases will increase manifold,” said Mandhare. Ever since the lockdown came into effect, Nashik district did not report a single confirmed Covid-19 case. “A sort of complacency settled among the people due to this reason. The result was the manifold increase in the number of positive cases in Malegaon, whicn is going though a crucial phase,” he said. “Citizens in Malegaon, known as the powerloom hub, already have weak lungs. Despite warning, they continued to go to mosques, markets or ventured onto the streets in groups without caring about the social distancing norms,” said Mandhare in a video message now making rounds in social media. “Citizens here get water through taps and bakeries are the major food joints. Besides the mosques, these are major spots in Malegaon from where people may have contracted the infection,” he said. In order to arrest the spread of the infection, the district administration requires a dedicated laboratory so that the load of testing can be handled faster, more cases can be detected and the spread can be curbed. “I have spoken to senior officials expressing the the need for a laboratory to curb the infection spread in Malegaon town. This will increase the rate of testing and also help identify more patients quickly,” Mandhare said. Intense screening is now being carried out in the town, especially in the localities from where the positive cases were reported. “Even the screening staff is being advised to stay in quarantine so that they accidentally don’t transmit the infection if by chance they have contracted it,” said Mandhare. Sub-divisional magistrate Vijayanand Sharma has announced complete lockdown in Malegaon city. 100% lockdown was already in effect in the containment zones declared by the Malegaon Municipal Corporation where only medical shops were kept open. “There should be no movement of people even in lanes and bylanes of the town. All the shops involved in the sale of essential goods are exempted from the prohibitory orders under section 144 (1), (3) of the Criminal Procedure Code,” said Sharma. The SDO also has also issued a separate order stating people would have to wear masks in public places and strict action would be taken against those violating the norms.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/collector-for-throat-swab-testing-lab-in-nashik-dist/articleshow/75102471.cms||Abhilash Botekar
April 12, 2020||Bhubaneswar||141 staff of ordnance factory under home quarantine||Balangir: As many as141 employees of the ordnance factory at Badmal in Balangir district, who recently returned from Covid-19 affected states, have been placed under home quarantined. They were on official tour to many ordnance depots. “We have directed all the staff, who have returned from outside the state, to obey government direction. They will in home quarantine for at least two weeks. Their kin are also under home quarantine,” said Jonson Horo, principal medical officer of the factory. During the quarantine period our medical team will visit individual house for counselling. “If required, we shall provide treatment to them at their doorsteps and also advise over telephone,” Horo added. According to a factory official, outstation official duty is a routine affair. This time, 141 staff visited Chandigarh, Pune, Nagpur, Amarnath and Mandara depots. Some returned before the lockdown and some were stranded in the respective depots. Later, they were sent by government conveyance. The last batch arrived on Thursday, said official.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhubaneswar/141-staff-of-ordnance-factory-under-home-quarantine/articleshow/75100635.cms||---
April 12, 2020||Jaipur||Sanitation staff stir over hospital’s laxity in Jodhpur||Jodhpur: The sanitation workers of MDM Hospital suspended work on Saturday morning and assembled at the gate to protest against the administration over laxity in following safety measures. The workers expressed resentment against the hospital administration for not screening and putting two sanitary workers, who had handled the body of a coronavirus positive patient, in quarantine. The two workers had packed and deposited the body of a patient on Wednesday night, sources said. The death had been caused by cardiac arrest. But his samples had been taken before death. The report, however, came after his death and he was found positive. “We were scared on learning about the report and pleaded the hospital administration to screen and quarantine us. But no one listened to us. Out of fear, we did not go to our homes that day and spent the night on the footpath in front of the hospital,” said a worker. On Saturday morning, when other workers learnt about the apathy, they suspended work, assembled at the gate and protested against the hospital administration. Superintendent of the hospital M K Aseri said that the two workers had been admitted to the quarantine ward and their samples have been taken. He said that all the staff from doctors to the sanitation workers are equal for them and the hospital administration was concerned about the safety of all. Two days back, the nurses of S N Medical College, who were engaged to look after the coronavirus positive cases in MDM Hospital, had protested against the administration for not providing them food and lodging facilities.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/sanitation-staff-stir-over-hospitals-laxity/articleshow/75102007.cms||---
April 12, 2020||Jodhpur||Sanitation staff stir over hospital’s laxity in Jodhpur||Jodhpur: The sanitation workers of MDM Hospital suspended work on Saturday morning and assembled at the gate to protest against the administration over laxity in following safety measures. The workers expressed resentment against the hospital administration for not screening and putting two sanitary workers, who had handled the body of a coronavirus positive patient, in quarantine. The two workers had packed and deposited the body of a patient on Wednesday night, sources said. The death had been caused by cardiac arrest. But his samples had been taken before death. The report, however, came after his death and he was found positive. “We were scared on learning about the report and pleaded the hospital administration to screen and quarantine us. But no one listened to us. Out of fear, we did not go to our homes that day and spent the night on the footpath in front of the hospital,” said a worker. On Saturday morning, when other workers learnt about the apathy, they suspended work, assembled at the gate and protested against the hospital administration. Superintendent of the hospital M K Aseri said that the two workers had been admitted to the quarantine ward and their samples have been taken. He said that all the staff from doctors to the sanitation workers are equal for them and the hospital administration was concerned about the safety of all. Two days back, the nurses of S N Medical College, who were engaged to look after the coronavirus positive cases in MDM Hospital, had protested against the administration for not providing them food and lodging facilities.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jodhpur/sanitation-staff-stir-over-hospitals-laxity/articleshow/75106956.cms||---
April 12, 2020||Delhi||50 more Jamaat members test +ve for Covid-19||New Delhi: As many as 50 of the 102 Tablighi Jamaat members, who were evacuated by Delhi Police from different mosques in the central Delhi area on Monday, have tested positive for the novel coronavirus. Most of them were foreigners and had come to attend the event held at Alami Markaz Banglewali Masjid in mid-March. Many other Jamaat members were staying in lodges and guesthouses waiting for the lockdown to end to return to their countries, said police sources. A senior police officer said that the cops were trying to trace people who had attended the programme at the Alami Markaz. “Police inspected about 70 mosques in Chandni Mahal area and 102 people were evacuated from 13 mosques. Around 60 of the evacuees were foreigners. After we informed the administration, the suspected cases were moved to a quarantine centre in Gulabi Bagh. We were later informed that 50 of them had tested positive,” the officer added. “We are now trying to find out who all they had met.” Special precautions are being taken after three people from the central Delhi area suspected to have succumbed to the coronavirus. However, the cops were still waiting for a confirmation in this regard. Several measures have been taken to ensure that the people who had come in contact with the Jamaat members and the three deceased remain inside their homes. Their mobile phone locations are being tracked to ensure that they do not move around the locality. Delhi government has, meanwhile, declared Chandni Mahal a containment zone. “No resident of the locality is allowed to go out of his/her home and essential items are being delivered at their doorsteps,” said another police officer. “The mosques in which the Jamaatis were staying are also likely to be turned into no-access zones. Police have requested the civic bodies to ensure that the area is sanitised,” the officer added. Meanwhile, police have said that no action will be taken against the local guesthouses and lodges where the Jamaatis were staying. “An enquiry has revealed that they were not staying together in the guesthouses. A few guesthouse owners had even asked the members of the Jamaat to leave. With their help, the area sub-divisional magistrate had shifted some of the Jamaat members to the quarantine centre in Gulabi Bagh.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/50-more-jamaat-members-test-ve-for-covid-19/articleshow/75102477.cms||---
April 12, 2020||Agra||Centre lauds Agra administration’s efforts to contain Covid-19 outbreak||AGRA: The central government on Saturday lauded the ‘Agra model of containment’ as the Union health ministry detailed on how the local authorities in coordination with the Centre controlled the spread of the pandemic in the western Uttar Pradesh district. During a press briefing, Luv Aggarwal, joint secretary, health ministry, said, “It was a coordinate effort with the Agra administration using existing infrastructure, like smart city control room, which was converted into a war room to fight the pandemic. The action taken at the ground level by frontline workers of the district administration was in coordination with the Centre.” “Detailed and active contact tracing, isolation of patients, identifying 38 epicentres and hotspots on the map, house-to-house survey of 9.3 lakh people by 1,248 special teams which helped us trace 2,500 people with flu-like symptoms, establishing central helpline, implementing lockdown as well coordinating with private players to develop 566 paid quarantine beds helped Agra combat Covid-19,” said Aggarwal. He said, “Agra district administration also worked simultaneously on other fronts, including distribution chain management, movement of essential commodities, provision of food & shelter for homeless and needy, food distribution for animals and risk self-reporting and helpline facility for citizens.” Meanwhile, district magistrate Prabhu N Singh said, “From March 1 till April 10, we have collected samples of over 1,900 people suspected of coronavirus infection. Total 675 people were admitted in institutional quarantine and 327 people were admitted in the isolation ward. Besides doctors serving in the isolation ward, we have dedicated teams working on specific tasks, including screening, sample collection, area surveillance, contact surveillance, contact tracing, tracking of travellers, rapid response, control room, logistics etc.” He said, “So far 92 coronavirus cases have surfaced in Agra. Out of these, nine people have been cured of the infection and discharged from the hospital. All the people who had come in contact with any Covid-19 patient are being screened. We are doing massive sampling to identify all the infected patients and send them to institutional quarantine.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/agra/centre-lauds-agra-admins-efforts-to-contain-outbreak/articleshow/75101305.cms||Deepak Lavania
April 12, 2020||Pune||Arrangements for over 52,000 patients in district||PUNE: The district administration has set up 271 quarantine facilities with a combined capacity of 52,991 beds across 13 tehsils. "Our plan is to enhance the bed capacity to 1 lakh in the coming weeks, considering the rising number of cases in the district," deputy collector Shrimant Parole told TOI. "Each tehsil administration has been told to identify suitable location as per the guidelines issued by the government. Currently, only quarantine facilities in Pune city are being utilised for patients. The newly-created facilities will be used if we fall short of beds in the existing facilities," Patole said. In Pune rural district, over 10 Covid-19 positive cases have been reported so far. The highest number of quarantine facilities are in Shirur tehsil (33) followed by Maval (32), Ambegaon (23), Mulshi (16) and Khed (14). Ayush Prasad, chief executive officer, Pune Zilla Parishad, said that they have made available adequate manpower and doctors for these centres. "Over 210 centres have sufficient doctors and staff at present. If required, we will rope in more health staff," Prasad added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/arrangements-for-over-52k-patients-in-district/articleshow/75102475.cms||---
April 12, 2020||Nagpur||Tough cop with a golden heart ensuring none remain hungry||Nagpur: Policing skills are coming handy for head constable Dipak Bindane in tracing genuine citizens requiring food during lockdown. He follows a unique intelligence-based method so that the ration kits or food packets, distributed from his Jaripatka police station or by NGOs, reach the needy ones and not the hoarders.Bindane, who was in the general duty at the police station before the lockdown was imposed, has now transformed into messiah for citizens in need of food. Senior PI Khushal Tijare of Jaripatka police station has deputed him as the pointsman for distributing and coordinating food and ration distribution.Besides performing his regular duty at nakabandi on Ring Road and detaining violators, the head constable ensures that needy people are promptly provided food and ration. Even after duty hours and on his way home, he makes it a point to reach out to needy families or individuals. “A poor elderly couple at Samta Nagar was not receiving help as they seldom stepped out of their home. I took ration to their doorstep and the supply will continue now,” said Bindane, adding, “Similarly, a young couple hailing from Balaghat and their son were starving in absence of any help. On getting information, I ensured they get regular help.” Bindane, whose mobile phone doesn’t stop ringing as people from different parts of north Nagpur keep calling him for help, said that for couple of days initially his colleague Naik police constable Umesh Tayyade and he arranged food packets and ration kits on their own before help started pouring in. “There are several slums like Samta Nagar, Nagarjun Colony, Nara Vasti and adjoining places under our jurisdiction. Most of those residing in these areas have lost their daily wage and livelihood due to the lockdown. Instead of waiting for help to arrive, we took up the initiative with support of our senior inspector (Tijare),” he said. Initially, they received donations from relatives and friends to buy ration and vegetables. “Later, individuals, NGOs and institutions came forward to help after seeing our efforts on social media,” said Bindane.The cop said that he and his colleagues have distributed over 1,000 food packets and around 700 ration kits in the last few days. He is now noting down details of persons approaching the police station and checking their background before handing over the ration kit or food grains. “It is not the time to hoard as many are still sleeping hungry and we are yet to reach them,” he said.The head constable attributed his zeal for helping others to zonal DCP Neelotpal, Addl CP Nilesh Bharne, Jt CP Ravindra Kadam and CP BK Upadhyay.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/tough-cop-with-a-golden-heart-ensuring-none-remain-hungry/articleshow/75102002.cms||Soumitra Bose
April 12, 2020||Agra||Disinfectant tunnel installed at centrally-located police station in Agra||Agra: A disinfectant tunnel was installed at Hariparvat police station in Agra city on Saturday. District police chief Babloo Kumar inspected the tunnel at one of the important station houses located at the city’s heart, which records over 200 footfalls every day, and announced to install ten more such tunnels by Sunday evening.“Initially, we are going to install disinfectant tunnels at 10 crucial points in the city with the help of civil society members and NGOs. These tunnels will ensure the safety of people delivering essential services and policemen. They can sanitise themselves in the tunnel. Later, the number of tunnels will be increased as per requirement,” said SSP Kumar.One disinfectant tunnel has also been installed at the police line in Agra.Meanwhile, intensifying their fight against coronavirus, three different teams of the North Central railway are racing against the time to develop prototypes of disinfectant spray tunnels, which will be installed across scores of railway stations in Uttar Pradesh to prevent infection post-lockdown.The three NCR units — coach depot in Prayagraj, electric loco shed in Kanpur and electric loco shed in Jhansi — have developed disinfectant tunnel prototypes, which are undergoing trials. But, according to sources, until the prototypes don’t match the standards laid down by the Union ministry of health — such as the length of the tunnel, the quantity of spray, type of chemical which is not allergic to skin and other factors — the prototypes won’t be approved.“A team is working on the prototypes. Once they meet the parameters of the health ministry, we will install the tunnels at various railway stations in Uttar Pradesh and other states,” said CPRO Ajeet Kumar Singh.There are nearly 400 railway stations under the North Central Railway zone, which have multiple entry and exit points, and experience footfalls of millions of passenger every day.“Apart from the railway stations, the tunnels will also be installed at railway department offices such as DRMs and others,” said another official.Meanwhile, NCR’s three divisions — Agra, Jhansi and Prayagraj — have turned 130 coaches into isolation facilities.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/agra/disinfectant-tunnel-installed-at-centrally-located-police-station-in-agra/articleshow/75101309.cms||---
April 12, 2020||Ahmedabad||Curbs on fishing, allied activities lifted||Gandhinagar: The state government on Saturday decided to lift all restrictions on fishing and allied activities in the state, a key sign that it is intent on easing of the lockdown imposed due to coronavirus outbreak. Earlier, restrictions were also eased for farmers and industrial units connected with essentials services. Providing details about the decision, secretary to the CM Ashwani Kumar said, “The nationwide lockdown prevented fishermen to go for fishing. The CM has allowed fishing activity to resume and tokens have been issued for the same. Further, all the associated units such as those related to packaging of seafood, cold storages, maintenance and transport will also be allowed to operate amidst the lockdown.” A special package has also been announced for 4.43 lakh BPL women and girls. Government of India has announced an ex gratia grant of Rs 500 per month for April and May. In all, 97,474 women and girls will avail this assistance from GOI. The remaining 3,47,417 women and girls will receive the same grant from the state government. The state government will bear an additional burden of Rs 34.64 crore for the same.Providing details of essential items, Kumar said 45.94 lakh litres of milk has been distributed and adequate stocks of vegetables and fruits are available in the market. Since the lockdown began, 89.69 food packets have been distributed for the aged, helpless and needy living alone. Around 231 calls have been received on the state’s helpline number 1070 for assistance related to provision of essential items and 1,555 calls at the district helpline number 1077.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/curbs-on-fishing-allied-activities-lifted/articleshow/75101987.cms||---
April 12, 2020||Goa||With processing halted, cashew farmers stare at bleak season||Margao: Cashew farmers are a worried lot. With cashew processing plants in the state shut and exports suspended owing to the lockdown, wholesalers have stopped purchasing cashew seeds. Cultivation of the cash crop is the sole source of livelihood for many families in Sanguem, Quepem, Canacona, Dharbandora, and Sattari talukas. The annual income of thousands of families, mostly belonging to the tribal community, consists of earnings derived during the cashew season that lasts from February to May. If the cashew seeds plucked and stored by these cashew growers lie unsold until May, the village economy in many parts of the state will be drastically hit, sources associated with cashew-growing farmers said. Agriculture minister Chandrakant Kavalekar said plans were afoot by the government to set up a system to lift stocks of cashew seeds lying with farmers. The rates of the seeds too will be decided in consultation with the Goa Bagayatdar, he said. “I will see to it that cashew farmers suffer the least possible loss owing to this lockdown,” he said. Once the monsoon sets in, cashew seeds begin to absorb moisture from the environment and soften. This leads to the deterioration of the taste, texture, flavor and odour of the nuts. The produce thus goes to waste, leading to losses for farmers. Agro-researcher Sachin Tendulkar stressed on the need for a cooperative-based system for collection of the seeds from various villages, on the lines of the milk collection system followed by the Goa State Cooperative Milk Producers’ Union (Goa Dairy). “If the current situation continues, it will lead to distress sales by farmers leading to the collapse of the local economy of those villages. Many cashew-growing farmers live a hand-to-mouth existence. If a collection system is devised to collect the seeds at the village level, their financial needs will be met and the village economy will survive,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/with-processing-halted-cashew-farmers-stare-at-bleak-season/articleshow/75102490.cms||---
April 12, 2020||Jaipur||Pol leaders urge admin to shift quarantine facilities outside city||Jaipur: Political leaders of both BJP and ruling Congress party on Saturday met Jaipur city nodal officer in-charge of preventing spread of coronavirus, Ajitabh Sharma, and Jaipur collector Joga Ram and expressed their concern over identifying quarantine centres in the city area. They also requested the administration to prevent anybody from giving a political colour to distribution of ration packets in city. Jaipur City MP Ram Charan Bohra and former BJP MLA Mohan Lal Gupta met Sharma on Saturday afternoon. Even Congress chief whip and Hawa Mahal MLA Mahesh Joshi met Sharma and Joga Ram. Congress and BJP workers clashed over distribution of ration and grocery by the civil defence team at Shipra Path locality on Friday. Two persons of both the groups were injured in the clash with both parties accusing each other of selective distribution and interference in civil defence work. “I also appealed to them to reopen all the community kitchens in the walled city and curfew-affected areas so that nobody is left hungry. I urged them that water and electricity bills should be waived off for three months and also the rents of the poor tenants living in the Walled City. Also, the quarantine centres, which are being identified within the city area, must be shifted to far off areas,” he added. He also said only authorized persons should be issued passes. Citing the Bhilwara model, Bohra said same measures could be taken by the government in Ramganj area, Hawa Mahal or Adarsh Nagar area. “At least, 75% of the positive cases are being reported from Muslim-dominated areas and in their communities. The administration should restrict movement of people in these areas. The movement of the quarantine teams and health officials working in these places must be restricted,” he said. Meanwhile, Congress leader Mahesh Sharma said, “I requested them to identify hotels for quarantine facilities outside the city area. I asked them to cancel the ones identified in the city.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/pol-leaders-urge-admin-to-shift-quarantine-facilities-outside-city/articleshow/75102004.cms||---
April 12, 2020||Varanasi||‘Coronavirus outbreak may lead to 1929 like recession’||Varanasi: A two-day webinar on ‘Socio-vis-à-vis- economic Impact of Covid-19 was organized by the faculty of commerce, Banaras Hindu University (BHU) on Saturday. Taking part in online discussion, Prof Yogesh Upadhya, vice-chancellor of ITM University, Baroda said the entire world is facing unprecedented challenge of coronavirus, and the economic impact will be like the economic recession of 1929. Prof. UK Tripathi, head, Veda department of BHU suggested to adopt the traditional lifestyle of the country. Former director, Institute of Agricultural Science Prof A Vaishmpayan explained the scientific vistas of corona. Dean, faculty of commence, Prof OP Rai emphasised on positive thinking and stress management, while pro the vice-chancellor of KIIT, Bhubaneshwar said that coronavirus pandemic will be resolved by full adherence to government rules and cooperation of the society. Organizing secretary Prof. HK Singh presented the report of the four technical sessions.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/varanasi/coronavirus-outbreak-may-lead-to-1929-like-recession/articleshow/75101542.cms||---
April 12, 2020||Pune||Pune: Ghorpadi inhabitants face shortage of groceries||PUNE: Many residents in the sealed Ghorpadi area complained of shortage of essential commodities and inadequate measures to ensure social distancing. Some residents said they were not getting foodgrains in ration shops for the last three days. “The administration should have taken adequate steps to give essential commodities to residents in sealed areas. We couldn't get vegetables and groceries in the last three days as shops were closed. The shops that were open were crowded and most of the customers were not wearing masks,” a resident Santosh Kawade said. The district administration and Pune Cantonment Board sealed the area on April 9 after a 77-year-old woman tested positive for Covid-19. A resident Nazir Khan said shops were crowded as they were open for a short duration. “Many at the shops were without masks. The police and PCB authorities were also not present,” a resident Sanjay Kawade said. “Shops have increased rates of essential commodities such as oil, sugar and pulses,” a resident Nikhil Bankar said. Citizens also complained police had not deployed adequate personnel. “Many people move around at night,” a resident Santosh Saple said. A senior officer from Mundhwa police said they had deployed adequate teams to patrol the area. “Our staffers are tracing contacts in the area,” Amit Kumar, PCB’s CEO said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/ghorpadi-inhabitants-face-shortage-of-groceries/articleshow/75102487.cms||---
April 12, 2020||Kolhapur||Citizens now more alert, maintain social distance & wear masks||Kolhapur: After three Covid-19 cases were reported in the city, people were more alert while moving out of their houses to buy essentials. They maintained social distance when they stepped out of their houses. They had their mouths covered with masks or cloth, as the police were not allowing those without masks on the streets. Civic chief Mallinath Kalshetti had appealed to the citizens to allow only one member of the family to buy essentials and not more than twice a week. He had threatened to take strict action against those moving out frequently. Hence, not many people came out on the streets. However, on Sunday the civic staff has to face the challenge of keeping the crowd in control. On Sundays most of the local markets are open, the farmers from nearby villages come there to sell vegetables. Kalshetti has asked the civic staff to be more vigilant on Sunday and asked them to make sure citizens maintain social distancing. Also, the civic administration is considering to ask the shop owners from Kasba Bawda locality to keep their shops open. At present, the shops are open for few hours in the morning which has resulted in a rush in some places. A senior official of Kolhapur Municipal Corporation, requesting anonymity said, “We have found that people gather at shops fearing that it will remain open for few hours only. The shop owners have taken this decision after a Covid-19 case was reported from the area. However, the state government has clear directions to ensure shops selling essentials are open all the time. We will take the decision soon after consultation with the locals." The local shop owners said that they have taken the decision after the directions from the police. Police are making announcements that the shops will remain open till 12pm. Meanwhile, retail vendors from Shahu Market Yard have been asked to shift to the nearby local areas to avoid congestion after consultations with civic administration and police. Locals rush to the market yard to buy vegetables from the retail vendors. Mohan Salpe, secretary of agriculture produce market committee said that the residents from nearby areas arriving in the market did not follow social distancing.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolhapur/citizens-now-more-alert-maintain-social-distance-wear-masks/articleshow/75102012.cms||---
April 12, 2020||Goa||73k receive Rs 500 relief from Centre||Panaji: As announced in the Pradhan Mantri Garib Kalyan Package, the first of three installments of Rs 500 each has been credited to the accounts of around 73,000 women Jan Dhan Yojana account holders in Goa, finance secretary Daulat Hawaldar said. The move is a part of the relief package for those affected by the nation-wide lockdown. The information was shared at the State Executive Committee (SEC) meeting chaired by chief secretary Parimal Rai. The SEC also deliberated on the current situation and on the possibility of making the Covid-19 relief fund tax free. The secretary for civil supplies informed the SEC that supply of essentials is normal across the state. District observers also informed the SEC that most grocery shops are open and people are following safe distancing norms while shopping. While reviewing the status of supply of water and electricity in the state, the electricity department informed the SEC that Goa’s electricity demand has dropped by 30% as compared to the average demand.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/73k-receive-rs-500-relief-from-centre/articleshow/75102488.cms||---
April 12, 2020||Jaipur||60-year-old woman registers case against son for rape attempt in Jaipur||JAIPUR: A 60-year-old woman registered a case of attempt to rape against her son who tried to sexually assault her while in an inebriated state on Friday night in Hanumangarh. He was arrested on Saturday. The 35-year-old accused had been absconding following the complaint. Ramesh Chandra Machra, SHO, Mahila Thana, Hanumangarh, said, “the accused was apparently in a drunk state when he tried to rape his mother. She somehow managed to escape and registered a case on Friday night. We immediately launched an investigation and arrested the accused.” The woman stayed with her son who worked as a labourer in Hanumangarh. “The accused has a history of alcoholism. At this point, the reason why he attempted such an act is not known,” added the official. (The victim's identity has not been revealed to protect her privacy as per Supreme Court directives on cases related to sexual assault)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/60-yr-old-woman-registers-case-against-son-for-rape-attempt/articleshow/75102009.cms||---
April 12, 2020||Agra||Eight more test positive for Covid-19 in Agra region||AGRA: At least eight more people tested positive for Covid-19 in Agra, Mathura and Firozabad districts on Saturday. Out of the eight cases, three were reported in Agra, taking the district tally to 92. Among the three cases is a couple who had visited an infected doctor. The doctor was found Covid positive after a 45-year-old Tablighi Jamaat member visited him earlier this month. On Friday, a compounder working at the doctor’s clinic, too, was found positive. The third patient is a madrassa caretaker, who came in contact with Tablighi Jamaat members. Agra district chief medical officer (CMO) Dr Mukesh Kumar Vats said, “The three new patients have been shifted to an isolation facility, and health department teams are searching for the people who came in contact with the trio.” In Mathura, one more person tested positive on Friday, taking the district tally to three. However, none of the patients hails from Mathura city. CMO Sher Singh said, “The 25-year-old man, who tested positive, hails from Fatehpur Sikri. He was admitted to a private hospital on the suspicion of coronavirus infection. Now, his test confirmed him to be positive.” Meanwhile, health officials, who are busy tracing his contacts, managed to trace the location of his brother, who had switched off his phone. Police used his mobile phone location to trace him and he was quarantined at SKS Medical College in Mathura for 14 days, said officials. The CMO added that the reports of 76 samples, including that of three Imams, were awaited. Similarly, days after a lab assistant with Paras Hospital was found corona positive in Agra, its neighbouring district Firozabad on Saturday reported four of his acquaintances, including his wife, infected with the virus, as the lab assistant had visited his village Pratappura recently defying the lockdown protocol. Acting on a tip-off from the Agra CMO, local health authorities in Firozabad visited Pratappura village and collected 38 samples, out of which four were found to be corona positive by PGI, Saifai. Firozabad CMO Dr SK Dixit said, “We traced the contacts and found that nearly 38 individuals came in contact with the lab assistant. We have sanitised the entire village and asked villagers to remain quarantined. The four patients, including lab technician’s wife and three of his friends, have been shifted to the isolation ward at the district hospital.” With the four new positives cases, the district tally now rose to 15, while none of the patients has recovered, so far. Meanwhile, on Saturday, Firozabad (north) police booked 11 people, including an eatery shop owner and his customers, after a video purportedly showing them violating the lockdown protocol went viral. According to police, the customers were found to be standing closely with each other in a queue to buy snacks like samosa and kachori. However, none of them was arrested till the time this report was filed.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/agra/eight-more-test-positive-for-covid-19-in-agra-region/articleshow/75101317.cms||---
April 12, 2020||Pune||Market Yard shut, posers on supply of essential items||PUNE: Residents are gradually becoming apprehensive about the availability of essentials for the next few days with the city’s main wholesale market of vegetables and fruits getting shut. Complaints have started trickling in from people about difficulties in buying vegetables and fruits because of the restricted business hours and the action against vendors. Some residents claimed that the supply was erratic in many areas, including sealed zones. Rajashri Mote, a resident of the sealed Ganesh Peth, said until now she was getting vegetables from local vendors. “They are now worried about the supply,” she said. While the farmers’ markets are operating in many areas, residents from old parts of the city claimed that they were still dependent on conventional mandis or nearby vendors for purchasing the essentials. Kasba Peth resident Balasaheb Shinde said most people from the area purchased fresh vegetables from local vendors. “The supply chain will break if vendors stop getting fruits and vegetables. The authorities need to work out alternatives as these are essentials,” he said. Amid all this, residents can expect some relief as the farmers’ markets would continue to operate. The farmers’ groups are preparing to set up more centres in Pune and pump in vegetables to meet the demand. The functioning of the farmers’ markets is being monitored by the state agriculture department, Pune Municipal Corporation and the farmers’ groups. One of the coordinators of the farmers’ groups said, “We expect a surge in demand in the next few days as the supply from the APMC would be down. We are gearing up to supply more as per demand. Most suburban parts and newly developed areas have been covered by our groups. People are registering their demands on our contact numbers.” The coordinators of the farmers’ markets claimed that they were functioning at 67 places. About 50 big residential societies have allowed the farmers’ groups to set up stalls on their premises.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/market-yard-shut-posers-on-supply-of-essential-items/articleshow/75102482.cms||Sarang Dastane
April 12, 2020||Kolhapur||Disinfectant tunnel set up at Shahuwadi police station||Kolhapur: A disinfectant tunnel has been set up at the entrance of the Shahupuri police station to keep all its personnel safe from the novel coronavirus. Similar arrangements are expected to be made at other police stations in the city soon. The Shahupuri police station is one of the biggest police stations in the city that covers the Central Bus Stand (CBS) as well as the railway station. “The tunnel has been set up at the entrance of the police station and hypochlorite solution is sprayed every time a person enters the tunnel,” said a police officer attached with the Shahupuri police station. “The person can enter from one end of the tunnel and his entire body will be sanitised before he leaves the tunnel and enters police station,” he said. The officer said that the number of people visiting police stations has been reduced but the Shahuwadi police team continues to work at sensitive places including hospitals and Chhatrapati Pramila Raje (CPR) civil hospital where Covid-19 suspected patients are admitted. “Police are also deployed at various patrolling duties where they may get exposed to the infection and once they return police station, passing through the tunnel will help in reducing the chances of getting infection,” he said. “The tunnel has been installed by some city residents who care for the welfare of the police,” he said, adding that if this concept succeeds, similar tunnels will be set up at the entrance of other police stations in the city and district. A special sanitisation room has already been set up at the police headquarters where the personnel can get completely sanitised after entering the room. The facility can be availed by only those who visit the police headquarters or work there. Sanitisation vans for police at Nashik checkpoints Commissioner of police Vishwas Nangare Patil has made two sanitisation vans available for police personnel so they can sanitise themselves while leaving for home after their duty. “While fighting Covid-19, the police are handling law and order and restricting the movement of people on the streets. One never knows when police personnel can get infected. Hence, we have got the sanitisation van for their safety,” Patil said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolhapur/disinfectant-tunnel-set-up-at-shahuwadi-police-station/articleshow/75102005.cms||---
April 12, 2020||Nagpur||Uncertain times for 6-yr-old granddaughter of Covid-19 deceased||Nagpur: Shahid Khan (name changed) is least worried his own safety from coronavirus. For six days since his throat swab was collected, he is spending sleepless nights at Government Medical College and Hospital (GMCH) ward worrying what would happen to his six-year-old daughter in case he too tests positive. Khan— son-in-law of city’s first Covid-19 deceased, a 68-year-old man from Satranjipura— and his daughter are among the 43 close contacts now kept in isolation at hospital.The six-year-old has tested negative which means she has to be placed under institutional quarantine. “Doctors are telling me she has to be shifted soon,” a sobbing Khan told TOI.His daughter faces the risk of getting infected in case Khan or any of the other seven relatives in the same ward are positive. The seven include Khan’s elder sister-in-law, her three kids, another woman relative and her two kids.Six family members tested positive on Thursday while another tested positive on Saturday. It included Khan’s wife, daughter and son. Khan was among the first batch of close contacts to be brought at GMCH. The authorities are still tight-lipped about the result of Khan’s samples. On Friday evening, Khan said he had with a heavy heart consented to shift his daughter to MLA Hostel quarantine facility. Two men relatives, who tested negative, have been put up there. “Authorities at MLA Hostel didn’t allow unaccompanied minor to be kept with the men and sent her back,” sources said.Almost the entire family of the Covid-19 deceased has been quarantined. Khan’s three brothers too were taken to Symbiosis Campus at Wathoda on Saturday.He was told keeping his daughter with them too is a risk. Khan’s parents and mother-in-law are no more while his two sisters are outside city and may not be able to host the six-year-old.Social workers have been counseling Khan and trying to find a solution for his daughter in case no one among those awaiting test results is able to take care of her.As a last resort, Khan has given the name of a distant relative of the deceased who lives in Kapsi.There had been some discord among the relatives but when Khan called them up they agreed to look after the six-year-old girl, if needed.“Tragedies have struck us one after another. We couldn’t even mourn the death in family. Soon after, the news of six members testing positive shattered us. I am just praying that among the eight of us at GMCH there is someone to take care of my daughter,” Khan said before breaking down again.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/uncertain-times-for-6-yr-old-granddaughter-of-covid-19-deceased/articleshow/75102011.cms||Sarfaraz Ahmed
April 12, 2020||Bhubaneswar||Odisha CM urges PM Narendra Modi to extend lockdown till April end||BHUBANESWAR: Two days after becoming the first state in the country to extend the lockdown till April 30, chief minister Naveen Patnaik on Saturday urged Prime Minister Narendra Modi to do the same across the country to contain the spread of novel coronavirus. The 21-day national lockdown is supposed to end on April 14. Naveen also suggested that flight and train services should not resume before the end of the month, the chief minister’s office stated. The move to suspend flight and train services is aimed at restricting movement of people, which the state government believes is a vital step to snap the transmission chain. Naveen was speaking to Modi through videoconference, the third since March 30, as part of the Prime Minister’s initiative to reach out to the chief ministers and discuss strategy to deal with the pandemic. Realising the importance that agriculture plays in Odisha and the country, Naveen urged Modi to ensure continuation of farming and allied activities including the Mahatma Gandhi National Rural Employment Guarantee Scheme (MGNREGS) by keeping social distancing guidelines in mind. Given that around 70 per cent of the state’s population depend on agriculture, Naveen’s cabinet has already taken a decision to allow farming activities in the state as the kharif season starts in the last week of April. The state government has also decided to allow MGNREGS work to ensure jobs for rural population during this crisis period. Chief secretary Asit Tripathy has already informed the Centre about the above three points in a letter to Union Cabinet secretary Rajiv Gauba on Thursday. “Extension of lockdown is essential to check spread of the pandemic. It’s a welcome move that the PM has consulted all states on the issue of extension of lockdown,” said a senior state government official following the videoconference. The chief minister also highlighted the plight of Odia migrant workers who are stranded in various states due to the lockdown. “People from Odisha stranded in other states should be taken care of by the concerned states. Our state will continue to coordinate,” Naveen said. Official estimates said around 1.5 lakh Odia migrant workers are stuck in states like Delhi and National Capital Region, Gujarat, Maharashtra, Telangana and Karnataka. The state government has set up a helpline to reach out to the migrants to ensure they get basic needs. Naveen’s request on the welfare of stranded migrant workers assumes significance in the wake of Friday’s violence in Surat, when hundreds of migrant workers went on the rampage demanding permission to return home fearing that the nationwide lockdown would be extended. Over 7 lakh Odia people, mostly from Ganjam and surrounding districts, have migrated to Surat to work in textiles, chemicals and diamond cutting industries. Requesting Modi to look after the welfare of Odia migrant workers, Naveen assured that his government would continue to take care of workers from other states. The state government treats migrant workers from other states as guest workers. Around 77,000 such guest workers have been accommodated in around 2532 transit camps in different districts and provided with food and medical care. The state labour department has set up a special cell to oversee the task.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhubaneswar/cm-urges-modi-to-extend-lockdown-till-april-end/articleshow/75100643.cms||---
April 12, 2020||Bhubaneswar||Amid rise in cases, breather for state with only 2 in hosp||Bhubaneswar: The state government on Saturday said only two Covid-19 patients in Odisha currently need medical care while others have either recovered or are asymptomatic. Two more persons from the same family in Madhusudan Nagar — a 35-year-old woman and a 23-year-old man — on Friday tested positive for the virus, taking the total number of positive cases in the state to 50. Of the 50 who tested positive, two have already been discharged and one died on April 6. “Among the rest 47, 10 tested negative on Friday and are being discharged. Among the remaining 37 active cases, only two patients need hospital care. The other 35 don’t have any current symptoms. They have been kept in hospital for better observation and also for their isolation from others,” said Shalini Pandit, Mission Director, National Health Mission Odisha. Pandit said among all the positive cases, more than 80% were totally asymptomatic. The rest have already recovered. “We hope some more patients will be discharged from hospitals very soon,” she said. The NHM MD said Odisha plans to increase testing of people so that positive cases if any are identified, quarantined and community spread is prevented. As on 9 am of Saturday, 3,547 samples have been tested. The government has ramped up facilities to increase the number of tests to around 1,500 per day in the ongoing antigen method besides testing at least one lakh people using the rapid kits as soon as possible. Health department sources said the two patients who need hospital care include a 69-year-old man from West Medinipur district of West Bengal admitted to KIMS and a 60-year-old from Suryanagar admitted to AIIMS. Condition of both of them is stable though the patient in AIIMS is in the intensive care unit. While 33 of the 37 active cases are confined to Bhubaneswar, one each are from Bhadrak, Kendrapada, Dhenkanal and Kalahandi. The information and public relations department, in a tweet, said the two new positive cases in Bhubaneswar are close contacts of a 45-year-old man who tested positive earlier.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhubaneswar/amid-rise-in-cases-breather-for-state-with-only-2-in-hosp/articleshow/75100650.cms||---
April 12, 2020||Ahmedabad||Family’s Covid-19+ patriarch admitted||Ahmedabad: Irfan Dudhwala and his family members had known since Thursday morning that a medical team and cops would be knocking on their doors in the already quarantined Matawali Pol in Dariapur area of the city. Dudhwala’s 70-year-old father had tested Covid-19 positive. That his father was Covid-19 positive came to light as the list of Covid-19 positive people was leaked on the social media. Dudhwala’s father has been bed-ridden for the last five years due to paralysis. The health officials shifted him to the isolation ward of SVP Hospital. Dudhwala told TOI: “My father was paralytic. But we didn’t have any issue with his treatment. The only thing that bothered us, and it still bothers us, that he needs assistance, and we are not sure whether the hospital staff will be able to provide that help in his daily activities.”Dudhwala, who works with an electronic company, said, “We requested the officials to keep my father quarantined in the house and treat him here, but they refused, saying it was not possible. We insisted that one of us accompany him. They agreed to take my younger brother along.”As the quarantined community in this cluster was still in disbelief, Dudhwala too wondered whether his father had really tested positive. “I have been asking for the test result, but nobody replies to my queries. I contacted the private laboratory, where the samples were analysed. However, the lab also refused to give the information,” he said. “I received calls from two of my neighbours who are kept in the same isolation ward at the SVP Hospital. They informed us about my father’s well being and sent us his videos too,” he said. However, the family is still sceptical. Dudhwala showed two forms for self-declaration stating that the family accepts a 14-day quarantine upon the return of a family member from abroad. “My father was bed-ridden. We have not filled the forms. Yet they show that my mother has accepted the quarantine,” said Dudhwala, adding that there were 105 families in Matawali Pol which were quarantined for more than a week.He also raised question over the return of his younger brother Azharuddin from the hospital on his own. “He is supposed to remain under quarantine. Yet, he was allowed to return on foot. No one bothered to ensure that he returned to this quarantined area without contacting other people,” said Dudhwala.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/familys-covid-19-patriarch-admitted/articleshow/75102014.cms||---
April 12, 2020||Jaipur||This family of cops & docs is on the frontline of corona fight||Ajmer: At a time when even the smallest individual effort is appreciated, the Bhati family of Ajmer stands out and has much to be proud of. Most of the adult members of this family, which include doctors and cops, are involved in serving society. Sub-inspector at Clock Tower Police Station, 54-year-old Amar Singh Bhati, has been living at his workplace for over a fortnight now. While he is ensuring that nobody breaks the curfew in this area, his elder son 35-year-old Mukesh Bhati is on a round-the-clock duty as the jailor of Ajmer Central Jail. His 32-year-old daughter Sanju and her husband Vijay Pal are both doctors serving at JLN Hospital where corona patients are being treated in Ajmer. His younger son, 27-year-old Rajkumar Bhati, also a doctor, is part of the state government’s Rapid Response Team working in Bhilwara. “Since the corona outbreak, none of us has seen each other. We are all busy doing our duties. While others did manage to talk on the phone, nobody could talk to Rajkumar for days as the response team was very busy and under quarantine in Bhilwara,” Bhati said. All of them work on a 12-hour shift and it is a worried father who makes it a point to call all his three children whenever possible. “I do not and cannot stop them from doing their job, but that does not mean I am not worried. All my children work in high-risk zones and I need to hear their voice at least once a day to feel assured,” he said. Bhati shares the news of his children over the phone with his wife Laxmi Devi, who is at home taking care of two grandchildren. “We did not want the young children to be exposed to any risk and hence, the decision that if things go bad those on duty will make minimum trips home was taken by us almost a month ago,” she said. While the contact of other family members with the outside world is limited, Laxmi Devi receives several phone calls every day from concerned relatives. “Our neighbours, friends and relatives appreciate the work my husband and children are doing. When I tell my kids about what others are saying, they remind me that it is their duty. My heart swells with pride on hearing that.” Sanju, their daughter and a doctor working in the pathology department at JLN Hospital, says, “All this was possible only because of our mother, who is a strong lady. We are what we are because of her and we can concentrate on our work without any worry as she now has taken our children under her wings.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/this-family-of-cops-docs-is-on-the-frontline-of-corona-fight/articleshow/75102015.cms||---
April 12, 2020||Aurangabad||Social welfare officers in Beed turn good samaritans||Aurangabad: Two government officials in Beed are walking the extra mile to ensure that the lockdown is efficiently implemented in the city and that everyone, including migrants and homeless people, are provided with proper accommodation and other facilities. It has been observed that many homeless people continue to stay on roads even during the lockdown as they are not accepted by others staying in the shelter homes or other temporary accommodations provided by the administration. The shabby appearance of such people could be the reason why people are not comfortable staying with them, said assistant social welfare commissioner Sachin Madavi. Madavi, along with district social welfare officer Raju Edke, said they felt that homeless people can benefit from a haircut, shave and wash. However, during lockdown, getting the job done by a barber is not easy. “When asked, the barbers said that they would charge Rs 300 to 400 for each haircut and we thought that if there are 10 people to be cleaned it would cost Rs 3,000 to 4,000. Instead, we decided to buy a trimmer for Rs 750. I do the beard cleaning and haircuts myself,” said Madavi who is also a trained Ayurveda doctor. He said that he couldn’t ask his subordinates to do this job, so he himself did it. So far, 11 homeless people have received haircuts and shaves. They also got to bathe. The officials also ensured that the homeless are provided fresh clean clothes to wear before they can be sent to shelter homes. “In Beed, we have picked 69 individuals living on roads or at public places and placed them in government shelters and 39 people living near Parli Vaijnath were picked and placed at an old age home in Ambajogai where they are provided food and sanitation with the coordination of NGOs,” Madavi said||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/social-welfare-officers-in-beed-turn-good-samaritans/articleshow/75101332.cms||Arpita Sharad
April 12, 2020||Kochi||Kochi: Construction work of Vyttila flyover resumes||KOCHI: Amidst Covid-19 threat, construction activities of Vyttila flyover resumed on Saturday as state government gave green signal to contractors to continue the work. With this, other agencies involved in execution of similar projects have also decided to approach the government seeking permission to restart works. Apart from Vyttila flyover, works of many mega projects like Kundannor flyover and Kochi Metro came to a halt due to the lockdown. Senior officials with Roads and Bridges Development Corporation-Kerala (RBDCK) informed that they would soon write to the government seeking permission to resume works of flyovers at Kundannoor in Kochi and Edappal in Malappuram. “The weather is favourable for construction works and we can try to execute maximum works before the onset of monsoon,” said a senior officer with RBDCK. Meanwhile, officials with PWD (NH wing) said that they are cautious about labourers being mobilized for the works. Large-scale movement of labourers, especially guest workers, cannot be encouraged at the construction sites, where sufficient safety and hygiene measures cannot be enforced. “Maintaining safe distance at construction sites is a nearly impossible task. Citizens are being told to stay at home and stay safe. You tell them to frequently wash hands using soap and sanitizers. How frequently or how often can they indulge in such an activity while working at such sites? At construction sites there is every possibility of workers getting cuts and wounds,” said an official. At the site at Vyttila, it is being reported that there are less than 50 workers. If works in the government sector are resumed, contractors undertaken works in the private sector also would come forward demanding relaxations. PWD (NH wing) said they were keen to complete tarring works on the portions where work has already been completed. Though they want tarring working works to be completed before the onset of monsoon, the high-quality bitumen required for it has to be brought from Gujarat. With the lockdown in force, it will not be possible to bring bitumen to the state.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/construction-work-of-vyttila-flyover-resumes/articleshow/75100661.cms||---
April 12, 2020||Kolhapur||Counsellors keep workers engaged in shelter homes||Kolhapur: Eyes of Srinivasan Balan sparkles as he shows the Marathi words scribbled by him on a note book. Srinivasan is a migrant worker from neighbouring Karnataka state. Due to the lockdown, he has been stuck in one of the shelter homes set up by the district authorities. The social welfare department has appointed one counsellor each to the shelter homes to keep the homesick inmates engaged. Ujjwala Khebudkar, head master of Chetana Vikas Mandir, a city-based school for differently abled children is given the task to keep the inmates from one of the shelter homes engaged. She started with yoga two days ago. “Srinivasan told me that he want to learn Marathi. I bought him a notebook, pencils and a book introducing different words of Marathi. Today he came back and showed me the notebook. He is catching up with some words of Marathi,” said Khebudkar. Kannada is Srinivasan’s mother tongue. He can understand little bit of Marathi but don’t know how to write or speak. “One day, I will get to know the meanings of Marathi written words. It has helped me stay engaged. I think everyone should take up some task to keep engaged as we don’t know till when this lockdown will last,” says Srinivasan. The inmates of the shelter home were happy after learning that Khebudkar will introduce them to a dance teacher on Sunday. “After my friends and people from fraternity learnt that I am doing my bit for the people stranded in lockdown, some of us have decided to do it voluntarily. One of the teachers I know is going to hold dance classes for the inmates. It will be fun for them. I take up yoga lessons. It helps retain mental peace and improve health,” said Khebudkar. There are over 15 shelter homes in the district in which over 800 people (migrant workers and travellers) have been placed. The shelter home assigned to Khebudkar has 33 inmates. “It is difficult to keep all of them in order and stay focussed though,” she says. Dipak Ghate, nodal officer looking after shelter homes said, “We are providing all the facilities. Counsellors help the inmates cope with loneliness. There are women, children, senior citizens in the shelters.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolhapur/counsellors-keep-workers-engaged-in-shelter-homes/articleshow/75102018.cms||---
April 12, 2020||Delhi||Diabetic granted bail as hospitals focus on corona||New Delhi: In a significant order, Delhi high court granted interim bail to an accused suffering from diabetes and hypertension observing that in the current pandemic, he couldn’t be taken to a government hospital for his regular treatment. The man, through advocate Vikas Pahwa, claimed that necessary tests couldn’t be conducted on him despite being taken to a government hospital and no date for treatment was given as the hospital was focusing only on Covid-19 patients. Considering his medical condition and prevailing conditions, Justice Mukta Gupta said, “In case of emergency, the petitioner would not be in a position to be taken to any hospital for his treatment. This court deems it fit to grant interim bail for a period of six weeks.” Pahwa had argued that his client was suffering from severe case of diabetes and hypertension, besides being a heart patient. Despite being taken to the cardiology department of Safdarjung Hospital, tests couldn’t be conducted, and the man was advised strict control of diabetes, blood pressure and suggested an early CT angiography. The counsel appearing for the Serious Fraud Investigation Office, the department probing the case, contended that the accused was stable and didn’t need hospitalisation. Justice Gupta took into account the man’s medical report, according to which, he was suffering from “diabetes mellitus with hypertension, coronary artery disease with hypothyroidism and severe non-proliferative diabetic retinopathy”. He even had a “percutaneous transluminal coronary angioplasty” done in 2017. After considering the chronology of the attempts undertaken for his medical treatment starting February, the high court noted that though the accused was taken to Safdarjung on March 9, 2020, and was scheduled for a review at AIIMS on March 18, the diagnosis was cancelled due to the Covid-19 pandemic advisory.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/diabetic-granted-bail-as-hospitals-focus-on-corona/articleshow/75113406.cms||Aamir Khan
April 12, 2020||Goa||UK govt to run three more rescue flights to Goa||Panaji: The British government on Friday announced 12 additional flights, including three to Goa, to repatriate Britons stranded in India. The flights will evacuate the 3,000-odd British travellers who are currently stuck in India due to the lockdown imposed to curb the spread of Covid-19. The additional flights will follow the seven charter flights from Goa, Mumbai and New Delhi. The first charter flight from India arrived at London Stanstead on Thursday with 317 passengers on board from Goa. “We are doing all we can to get thousands of British travellers home from India. This is a huge and complex operation which also involves working with the Indian government to enable people to move within India to get on these flights. Over 300 people arrived from Goa on Thursday morning, 1,400 more will arrive over the Easter weekend and these 12 flights next week will bring back thousands more,” UK minister of state for South Asia and the Commonwealth Lord Tariq Ahmad of Wimbledon said. “We can confirm 12 more charter flights to bring British travellers home — on top of the flights already launched. We are extremely grateful for the support we are receiving from the government of India on this. Getting people home as quickly as possible remains our absolute priority,” said acting high commissioner to India Jan Thompson. Aside from UK residents stranded in Goa, Mumbai and Delhi, hundreds are stranded in Gujarat, Punjab, Dehradun, Kolkata and Kerala and seek to return home following the closure of international flights. The repatriation process, said the British embassy in India, has been made more challenging by the size of the country and the restrictions on movement that are in place.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/uk-govt-to-run-three-more-rescue-flights-to-goa/articleshow/75102494.cms||---
April 12, 2020||Varanasi||Screening of all in hotspots accelerated||Varanasi: The process of screening of every resident in hot-spot areas is expected to be completed by Sunday. Besides, the pace of screening of people in high-risk category and those with travel history has also been accelerated in the district. Mddanpura, Bajardiha, Lohta and Gangapur areas of the district have been declared hotspot areas from April 5 after detection of Covid-19 positive patients there. Apart from sealing all the entry points of these areas and conduting sanitisation work here the administration has also engaged health department teams for screening of all the denizens of these areas. Talking to TOI on Saturday, district magistrate Kaushal Raj Sharma said, “There is a population of over 10,000 in four hotspots of the district. Till Friday night, 5,318 of the residents had been screened while samples of 81 symptomatic persons had been sent for laboratory tests. Reports of 79 of them had been received and none of them were found infected. Six s had been quarantined in these areas. The DM said that over 2,000 people of these areas had been screened on Saturday and the process is likely to complete by Sunday. He said that while maximum population has been covered in Madanpura, Bajardiha and Lohta areas, hectic exercise is still needed in Gangapur as the area sealed here is much larger in comparison to others. Two Tabhligi Jamaat attendees were detected in Madanpura, one returned from Umrah and a TB patient woman in Bajardiha and youth returned from Moradabad in Lohta area were tested positive. Besides, Covid-19 infection was confirmed in a trader returned from Kolkata on April 4 after he died on April 3. Later, his wife and daughter-in-law were also found infected. The DM said that the focus is on the screening of those having travel history, symptomatic and suffering with ailments like blood pressure, hypertensionetc. Screening process has been acceletaed with introduction of 45 ward flu clinics in city and 30 teams in rural areas since April 9. Only in three days, these teams have examined over 10,000 people.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/varanasi/screening-of-all-in-hotspots-accelerated/articleshow/75101559.cms||---
April 12, 2020||Goa||‘In troubled times, Easter brings hope’||Panaji: Governor Satya Pal Malik, chief minister Pramod Sawant and archbishop of Goa and Daman Filipe Neri Ferrao have extended Easter greetings to the people of the state. They have also appealed to the faithful to offer prayers from their respective homes in view of the lockdown due to the Covid-19 pandemic. In his message, Malik said, “In the present-day world, afflicted by intolerance, social tension, violence, and health scares, the noblevalues embodied by Jesus Christ can liberate human beings from all kinds of sufferings and give them strength to lead a more meaningful, peaceful and wholesome life.” The chief minister, in his greeting, said, “I wish this Easter brings you a renewed hope for a better tomorrow as we all know that there is always hope for a new day.” “This year, we are celebrating Easter at a time when Covid-19 is causing suffering, mourning and death among all people, while we remain entombed, as it were, in our respective dwellings, for fear of being struck by the virus,” archbishop Ferrao said, even as he called for intensification of prayer for the pandemic to be overcome.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/in-troubled-times-easter-brings-hope/articleshow/75102493.cms||---
April 12, 2020||Bhubaneswar||Despite lockdown, voluntary body continues cremating bodies||Sambalpur: During the lockdown when people were advised to stay home, some members of Sambal, a city-based organisation that cremates unclaimed bodies continued with their job. On Friday, they cremated a woman at Raj Ghat, the cremation ground. Secretary of the organization Subrat Panda said, “We have not stopped our work. We are going to places on receiving information about the unclaimed bodies and giving a decent farewell to the deceased.” Subrat said embers are taking all precautions while executing their work due to the Covid-19 scare. “We are sending only two members in our vehicle to the place from where we are getting the information about the unclaimed body. They use masks, gloves and maintain social distancing between them when they go to bring the body. Similarly, two to three other members wait for the body outside the Raj Ghat. They take the body to the crematorium for cremation. We have already cremated three bodies during the lockdown,” he added. Sambal was formed in 2009. Members of the organization were involved in activities like blood donation and cleaning when it was formed. However, in 2011 members of the organization decided to take the responsibility to cremate the unclaimed bodies. They have cremated more than 400 unclaimed bodies so far. There are around 120 members in the organization now. Earlier, the members of the organizations were contributing funds for the cremation of the unclaimed dead bodies. However, the organisation has signed an MoU with the government recently. Nowadays, the government provides the money required for the cremation under Harischandra Sahayata Yojana. During the lockdown, members of the organization have not restricted themselves to cremating unclaimed bodies only, they are also providing food to the poor and destitutes. “We are providing food to around 400 poor and destitutes twice a day during this lockdown,” said Subrat.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhubaneswar/despite-lockdown-voluntary-body-continues-cremating-bodies/articleshow/75100654.cms||Subrat Mohanty
April 12, 2020||Cuttack||‘I am scared, but not ready to quit’||CUTTACK: Amid rising fears of community transmission, Rashmita Swain goes about her job at the corona ward of SCB Medical College and Hospital, where she has been working as a nurse for over a decade now. Rashmita’s 15-year-old son was very fearful that she might get infected. “I reassured him that I would be okay. I also explained to him that when duty calls, one has to show up,” said the 41-year-old nurse, who reports for a 12-hour night shift every day. Her husband, who runs a diagnostic unit, drops her near the corona ward at 8 pm and picks her up at 8 am to return home at Andarpur in Kalyani Nagar, three km away from the hospital. Rashmita, who gets a monthly salary of Rs 25,000, has been attending to patients in quarantine and isolation at the corona ward for more than a week now. “It has been worth it when we see the relief on the face of the patients when they test negative,” she said. “I am used to attending patients to collect samples. We take care to protect ourselves. But corona virus is something different. I am scared but won’t quit”, she said. Three persons tested Covid -19 positive, two from Bhadrak and one from Cuttack city, had undergone treatment at the corona ward for a brief period before they were shifted to Aswini (Corona) Hospital a few days ago. “There is so much panic. People are alarmed even by minor coughs and colds. So, there is need for people to know the right way to identify Covid-19 symptoms,” said Rashmita. Urging people to follow the instructions seriously and stay at home, Rashmita said these are trying times and everyone will get through. She said, “Help yourself and all by not going out unless it is for essentials or if there is an emergency. And once this is all over, life will be normal again.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/cuttack/i-am-scared-but-not-ready-to-quit/articleshow/75100669.cms||lalmohan.patnaik
April 12, 2020||Nagpur||Pay full salary to employees, govt orders||Nagpur: Chief secretary Ajoy Mehta in his capacity as ex-officio chairman of Maharashtra state disaster management authority (MSDMA) has directed all employers to not deduct salaries of their employees for failing to attend duty due to the coronavirus lockdown. All district collectors have been asked to ensure the implementation of this order.This order is applicable for regular as well as contractual workers. The daily wagers are also to be paid full wages.However, this order is already being flouted by several organizations, even those with deep pockets. Two major media houses in Mumbai have reduced the salary of their employees between 5% and 30%. The messages sent by their chairmen to the employees are doing rounds on the WhatsApp.Most people did not pay full salaries to their domestic helps in March. These poor people are unlikely to get a single penny for April as many will be unable to report to work for the entire month with the lockdown being extended till April 30.Construction activity has come to a complete halt and the labourers who are daily wagers have either gone home or are stuck up in migrant shelters as they are not being paid by their employers.The directive is ironical as the state government itself is paying only 50% salary for the month of April to its employees. The remaining half will be paid at a later date, which has not been specified. Private employers say that government can’t have such double standards. Many employers, especially the small ones, are financially in a bad shape are not in a position to pay full salary to their staffers.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/pay-full-salary-to-employees-govt-orders/articleshow/75102021.cms||Ashish Roy
April 12, 2020||Goa||Mapusa man creates 3D-printed shields||Panaji: As the demand for personal protective gear grows amid the Covid-19 pandemic, one designer from Mapusa is attempting to fill the gap. Over the past few days, Kristoff de Braganca, 23, has been creating 3D-printed face “shields” for medical professionals and others. Earlier this week, he donated 150 of them to doctors and workers at Margao’s ESI hospital and the directorate of health services. “A lot of people have called me asking for face shields,” Braganca said. The shields made by him are also handy for those with increased interface with the public — like those engaged in distributing groceries to the needy. Braganca, who promotes his work on social media, says he is ready to help anyone in need of face shields.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/mapusa-man-creates-3d-printed-shields/articleshow/75102495.cms||---
April 12, 2020||Goa||Covid-19 survey a ticking time bomb: Congress||Margao: The Goa Pradesh Congress Committee on Saturday said that the Covid-19 survey to be undertaken by the government from Monday was a part of BJP’s preparation for the 2022 assembly election. A press note by GPCC president Girish Chodankar said that the statement made by chief minister Pramod Sawant accepting that the data collected from the survey will be useful in the future was a clear indication of that. “The CM should understand that while preparing for future, he is putting at stake lives of 7,000 (non- medical staff) government employees and 15 lakh Goan population. He has set a time bomb ticking,” Chodankar said in the press note, adding that the chief minister would be solely responsible for this “suicidal decision and all responsibility of any untoward incident and disaster will solely rest on him”. He demanded that all employees engaged in the survey be provided with PPE and be certified Corona negative before exposing them to the public at large. As regards the chief minister’s announcement that government offices will remain open from Monday, Chodankar questioned how government employees were expected to reach their offices in the absence of public transport in Goa.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/covid-19-survey-a-ticking-time-bomb-congress/articleshow/75102497.cms||---
April 12, 2020||Goa||Power department begins bill generation||Panaji: The electricity department has begun sending out their meter readers to be able to generate new bills. It has requested all consumers to cooperate with meter readers visiting to record energy readings, and to provide them unhindered access to their premises. The meter readers have also been instructed to follow necessary health guidelines while on field. The electricity department had initially stated that it would not generate fresh bills during the 21-day lockdown. However, with the situation set to continue, it has begun generating bills. “We require revenue as people are using electricity. At the same time, we understand their problems and are willing to reasonably extend the due dates for payments,” chief electrical engineer Raghuvir Keni told TOI. The department has already extended the due date till May 20 for low tension consumers and May 15 for high tension consumers.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/power-dept-begins-bill-generation/articleshow/75102496.cms||---
April 12, 2020||Delhi||Hit by fire at shelters, homeless to be shifted||New Delhi: A day after three night shelters near Kahsmere Gate were set afire, the Delhi Urban Shelter Improvement Board (DUSIB) has decided to shift 104 homeless people living there to a government school in the nearby Chabi Ganj on Monday. They will be provided two meals at the new shelter too, said a senior official. A cluster of 10 night shelters, along the ghat in Yamuna Bazar, houses around 400 homeless. However, since the lockdown has been implemented and Delhi government started free meal for everyone willing to eat at night shelters, the area has become one of the biggest food distribution centres. While DUSIB provides food to 3,000-3,500 inmates, civil society organisations claim 8,000-10,000 people eat here every day, leading to chaos. The district administration also sends food to the area. To avoid such clashes, a proper strategy is required so that thousands of people living along the Yamuna banks get a proper shelter and place to eat, an activist said. On Saturday, DUSIB claimed the immediate trigger behind the incident was a rumour that a body found in the Yamuna around 3pm was of a homeless inmate. Many activists, however, said lack of food was the main reason behind the clashes on Friday and Saturday. “Thousands of people living in the open in nearby areas don’t exist in government’s records. Some of them remain hungry and harbour a grudge against those who get food,” said Sunil Kumar Aledia, executive director of Centre for Holistic Development. While the government has started 23 night shelters in school buildings since the lockdown, Aledia said larger facilities should be opened. “The Millennium Park bus depot, Kashmere Gate ISBT and government-run stadiums can be used for the purpose,” Kumar added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/hit-by-fire-at-shelters-homeless-to-be-shifted/articleshow/75113411.cms||---
April 12, 2020||Varanasi||Ensure food, shelter for street children, appeals NGO||Gorakhpur: Even as the street children in Gorakhpur face hunger, unhygienic conditions and a high risk of getting coronavirus infection during the lockdown, Gorakhpur-based organisation, Safe Society, has appealed to Gorakhpur residents to distribute essential commodities among them. Ahead of the International Street Children’s Day on Sunday, the NGO has urged people through social media to give food, soap and water to street children in their areas, and also inform the administration so that shelter homes can be set up for them. “Since lockdown, we have spotted 100 street children in various localities of Gorakhpur and managed to provide them food. In our next step, we will include potable water and soap in our relief packages. During the lockdown, it is difficult to find them as they are hiding in shelters, deprived of basic amenities,” said a Safe Society member, Vaibhav. “Today we spotted four children near Tarang overbridge and provided them with food. If city residents come forward and inform the administration or police about street children in their areas, they can be saved from hunger and the Covid-19 pandemic,” Vaibhav added. “We have also requested the administration to set up shelter homes for them,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/varanasi/ensure-food-shelter-for-street-children-appeals-ngo/articleshow/75101571.cms||---
April 12, 2020||Aurangabad||Stricter lockdown imposed during evening hours: Police||Aurangabad: The city police have started imposing stricter lockdown orders during evening hours from 7 pm to 11 pm. Saturday turned out to be the fourth consecutive day when curfew remained imposed in the entire city. Sources said that as the state government has extended the lockdown till April 30, the city police have decided to walk an extra mile for ensuring effective lockdown. Already the surge in the number of Covid-19 positive patients in the city has kept the administration, health as well as the police department on their toes. The decision to impose stricter lockdown during the evening hours has been taken after it came to fore that several people, who are not stepping out of their homes during the day, are going out in the evening with or without valid reason. “Moreover, the casual approach by a handful people who step out for no reason poses a grave threat for not only contracting the disease, but also becoming a possible carrier. Our ultimate aim is keep such people indoors,” said police. Orders in this regard have been issued to public while exemptions granted to other services, except for pharmacy stores and hospitals, were being withdrawn except in emergency situations. On Saturday, fresh orders for imposing similar restrictions were issued by commissioner of police Chiranjeev Prasad. While appealing to the commoners to remain indoors, the officer warned of stringent legal action against those violating the orders. For the effective implementation of these orders, police bandobast along with the additional forces comprising state reserve police force (SRPF) companies as well as riot control police teams are being deployed on the city streets. Sources said that the city police have decided to straightway register offences against anyone found violating the restrictions. Already, the city police have registered dozens of offences against those violating the lockdown orders, apart from seizing vehicles used by them. Police have seized a number of two-wheelers at Nanded, Parbhani, Hingoli, Beed, Osmanabad, Latur, Jalna and Aurangabad rural.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/stricter-lockdown-imposed-during-evening-hours-police/articleshow/75101346.cms||---
April 12, 2020||Aurangabad||API faces inquiry for attack on traffic police constable||Aurangabad: Aurangabad commissioner of police Chiranjeev Prasad has ordered an inquiry against an assistant inspector, who was leading a team of nine policemen, in connection with the alleged attack on a traffic police constable on Thursday. A senior police officer said, “Inquiry is underway to find if the officer present on the spot did everything to avoid the ugly incident.” Following the incident, four people including Shaikh Farooq, his two sons Shahrukh and Shahzeb and their accomplice Shaikh Salim, were arrested on the charges of using criminal force to deter a government employee from performing his duty, rioting, unlawful assembly, voluntarily causing hurt and endangering life of a public servant. On Friday they were remanded to four days’ police custody. The incident took place on Thursday afternoon when Shahzeb riding a triple seat on a bike, did not stop at a check post and was allegedly hit by an unidentified policeman. He was left with an injury near his right eye. However, police have alleged that the suspect fell off the bike while riding. Later, Shahzeb along with his two friends, including a minor, indulged in a heated argument with the police after which Shahzeb called his brother Sharukh for help. Videos of the incident reveal that after being hit on the head with a cane, Shahrukh snatched the baton from the policemen and began assaulting one of them, during which barely any of the policemen intervened, except for the two women constables. Moreover, it was also seen that some male constables were busy filming the incident when their colleague was being thrashed while others made little or no effort to stop the matter from being escalated. Even the assistant inspector was seen with little response to avert or handle the situation. Senior police officers also took cognizance of the fact that despite police presence, the suspects walked away freely after the incident.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/api-faces-inquiry-for-attack-on-traffic-police-constable/articleshow/75101338.cms||---
April 12, 2020||Kolhapur||Industries to seek funds to pay employees their salaries||KOLHAPUR: The industrial associations in the district will ask the state and central governments to provide funds to pay the salaries of the workers employed with them. The industrial associations are providing the migrant workers with ration instead of salary. For the local workers, they have been given part of the salary. The industries have managed to pay the salaries for March partly. Now the lockdown is expected to be extended by two weeks and the industries will remain shut. The third-party industrial goods suppliers and manufacturers have not paid the salaries to their workers as the manufacturers have their payments stalled from the bigger units. Sanjay Shete, president of Kolhapur Chamber of Commerce and Industries, said, “We are going to ask for funds from the Employees State Insurance Corporation. Over Rs 75,000 crore is collected in ESIC. We will appeal to the government to release it so that we can pay the salaries of the industrial workers. We will also demand funds from the state government to get the industries back to work.” The major industrial locations in the district are in Shiroli, Kagal and Shivaji Udyamnagar where over 50,000 workers are employed. Since the lockdown, manufacturing and production has stopped. Already due to the slowdown, the industrial units were observing work holidays and shifts were reduced. The industries contribute 4% of the income of the worker towards ESIC and 1% is contributed by the worker. The funds are used to provide treatment to workers if they suffer injury or contracts some disease while working. The industry owners said that at present there is no such medical emergency yet and the central government should consider utilising the funds for paying the salaries. Raju Patil, an industrialist, said, “We are ready to provide the monthly ration to the workers. The industries are unlikely to regain momentum in the coming months. In such situation, the workers have to be paid for sustenance.” The state government had issued a circular couple of weeks ago stating that the industries should not lay off the workers and pay the basic salaries. In order to abide by the directives, the industry owners demand financial help from the governments. The situation is similar for the workers employed in textile units mainly located in Ichalkaranji.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolhapur/industries-to-seek-funds-to-pay-employees-their-salaries/articleshow/75102024.cms||---
April 12, 2020||Bhubaneswar||Closed dhabas add to truckers’ woes||KEONJHAR: Almost all dhabas and garages located by the side of state and national highways in Keonjhar district are shut, causing untold misery to drivers of goods vehicles who depend on these eateries and shops. Earlier, the state government had issued a notification on the opening of dhabas and garages at a minimum distance of 20km from each other on the highways to provide services to truck drivers, who are not only driving vehicles carrying essential items but also things like minerals from the ores in the district. “We are facing a shortage of food on the way because of the closure of the dhabas. We have to cook food at the side of the road to fill our belly. In case our vehicles develop a snag, we have to fix it ourselves. This wastes our time,” said Amarendra Singh, a trucker. Sources said thousands of trucks carrying essential commodities, medicines, minerals and PDS items ply the NH49 connecting Mumbai and Kolkata, NH20 connecting Panikoili and Rimuli and NH720 connecting Rimuli with Rajamundam, beside the state highways going through the district, every day. On a normal day, hundreds of dhabas, small hotels and garages liven up these highways. “The government should open at least a couple of dhabas and garages to help us,” said Singh. The dhaba owners, however, cited shortage of staff and lack of protection for the closure. “There are not enough customers either. Sometimes, the inhabitants of the nearby villages force us to close because they fear the spread of coronavirus,” a dhaba owner said. Keonjhar DSP Harish Pandey said all dhabas and garages had been asked to remain open. “We don’t know why they are still shut. We will try to reopen them,” he said. In Sambalpur district, 12 dhabas along the national highway are open.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhubaneswar/closed-dhabas-add-to-truckers-woes/articleshow/75100665.cms||Naresh Chandra Pattanayak
April 12, 2020||Allahabad||Uttar Pradesh: Crowd gathers to watch ‘idol drink milk’, 13 booked||PRAYAGRAJ: Thirteen persons were booked for gathering at a temple of Lord Shiva during the lockdown after allegedly hearing a rumour that the deity’s idol was ‘drinking milk’, in Shamsherganj block under Jethwara police station in Pratapgarh on Friday. Pratapgarh hit headlines last week after six new novel coronavirus patients were diagnosed in the district. After being alerted, Jethwara police rushed to the spot and found out that one Rajesh Kaushal, a resident of Shamsherganj, had allegedly spread the rumour that the idol of Lord Shiva at a temple near his house was drinking milk. As word spread, devotees were seen rushing towards the temple with a glasses of milk. Police had a tough time controlling the situation. Police have booked 13 persons, including Rajesh Kaushal, under section 188 of the Indian Penal Code (violating section 144 of CrPC). Inspector of Jethwara police station Vinod Kumar Yadav said, “Police identified 13 persons who allegedly violated the lockdown orders and were later booked under section 188 of the IPC.” Police were trying to identify others who had rushed to offer milk to the deity at the temple. Police also appealed to local residents to not fall for any rumours and follow lockdown norms strictly else they would be booked.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/allahabad/crowd-gathers-to-watch-idol-drink-milk-13-booked/articleshow/75089059.cms||---
April 12, 2020||Jaipur||7 lakh litres of disinfectants sprayed in 37,000 villages: Sachin Pilot||Jaipur: Deputy chief minister Sachin Pilot on Saturday said around 7 lakh litres of sodium hypochlorite had been sprayed in more than 37,000 out of 46,167 villages of the state. He added that more than 16.50 lakh masks have been distributed in all villages. Pilot said the state government was fully committed to fight the virus and there would be no shortage of resources. Panachyati raj department had recently sanctioned Rs 50,000 each to around 11,000 gram panchayats, Rs 1 lakh each to 295 panchayat samitis and Rs 1.5 lakh each to 33 zilla parishads to distribute masks, sanitisers and gloves in rural areas at a cost of Rs 60 crore. Panchayati raj institutions will be able to use the amount for spraying and distributing materials such as sanitisers, masks, gloves and other essential disinfectants like sodium hydrochlorite to prevent infection.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/7-lakh-litres-of-disinfectants-sprayed-in-37000-villages-sachin-pilot/articleshow/75102037.cms||---
April 12, 2020||Nagpur||Wardha tries modified lockdown to keep essentials working||Nagpur: Just a few days after the nationwide lockdown was announced, Wardha district has been successfully experimenting by opening up certain shops on a weekly basis to ensure critical supply chain does not get interrupted. Right from electrical shops to mobile repair and optical shops are open once a week for a few hours and authorities ensure social distancing norms are not flouted.Wardha’s collector Vivek Bhimanwar has been leading this experiment using innovative ideas and feedback from people. “The more you go out and meet people affected by the lockdown, you start understanding their requirements. Now edible oil is an essential commodity. Oil factory owners told us of their requirement of some critical electrical parts. Unless we keep critical supply chain of accessories also open, in the long run the supply of essential services cannot be ensured,” said Bhimanwar.But he realized that keeping them open everyday will create problems. “It will defeat the purpose of lockdown and that’s why I decided to keep electrical shops open once a week. Somebody talked about not having prescription eyewear and how it is hindering their day to day activity, so we opened up optical shops on a weekly basis,” said Bhimanwar.Mobile repair shops are ensuring there is no breakdown of communication during the lockdown. For hardware shops, they are currently operating on a business-to-business (B2B) format. Whenever these shops open, officials are present to ensure that social distancing is followed. For distribution of food grains through ration shops, Bhimanwar was initially worried about overcrowding. “There are about 850 shops in district and we divided them in descending order of number of beneficiaries. Some shops have 3,000-plus beneficiaries while some have just 200-odd. Wherever the beneficiaries were high, a big team of volunteers who are ex-servicemen and officials headed by a district nodal officer ensured crowd movement is systematic with all norms of social distancing being followed,” said Bhimanwar.Marking on ground has been done to indicate where people must stand on the ground, pavement etc in front of banks, ATMs and all shops that have permission to be open. Another challenge that Bhimanwar faced was handling migrant labourers, whose numbers jumped from 3,000-odd to just over 8,000 within a week. “Many labourers were passing through our district on their way back. They have been housed in 60 different buildings. We are conducting daily yoga classes and counselling sessions for them with the help social organizations to keep them mentally occupied,” said Bhimanwar. The district, nationally known for Mahatma Gandhi’s Sewagram ashram, has been leading the way in other ways as well. They were the first to sanitize streets in urban area, first to experiment with open group vegetable markets and start with medical check up of vegetable vendors too.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/wardha-tries-modified-lockdown-to-keep-essentials-working/articleshow/75102030.cms||Abhishek Choudhari
April 12, 2020||Kolhapur||Satara cops book those not following orders||KOLHAPUR: Satara collector Shekhar Singh, taking a serious note of the large number of people who had returned from Pune and Mumbai, has appealed to them to observe home quarantine. In a video message, Singh said people are not following guidelines despite several appeals by the administration. He requested people, who had come from outside Satara, to maintain social distancing even at home. Singh also asked people to register their names with the nearest authorities and approach the primary health centres. He hinted at stringent action against people ignoring guidelines. In a significant step, Satara police have registered offences against six persons for not registering their names with the authorities after they came into Satar from other places. Satara taluka police registered offence against 25-year-old youth from Alwadi village for not approaching the medical authorities after his arrival from Mumbai. The youth was found not following guidelines like wearing a mask either. In another case, five members of a family in Borne village were booked under section 188 of Indian Penal Code (IPC), which calls for action for not following an order by a public servant. The family resides in Navi Mumbai and had come to the village on a tempo. The family got down at Shendre phata on Pune-Satara road and reached the village by another vehicle. In Satara, six people were admitted in isolation as they had come in contact with a positive patient. Their throat swab samples have been sent for testing. Reports of 24 people from Phaltan, who had come in contact with a Kolhapur woman, who is a confirmed Covid-19 patient, were negative. Considering the situation, Singh had further tightened restrictions on the movements of the people. All the essential services like grocery shops, petrol outlets, medical shops will be opened for two to three hours in the morning and evening.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolhapur/satara-cops-book-those-not-following-orders/articleshow/75102033.cms||---
April 12, 2020||Trichy||10 foreign jamaat members arrested, kept in isolation||Ten foreign Tablighi Jamaat missionaries and their two guides were arrested by Mayiladuthurai police on April 9 on charges of violating the lockdown norms and Foreigners Act 1946. They were produced before the Mayiladuthurai judicial magistrate, who remanded them in judicial custody.All the 12 have been booked under section 188 of the CrPC, IPC section 269 (Negligent act likely to spread infection of disease dangerous to life), and Foreigners Act 1946, police said. They were later admitted to isolation wards in the Mayaliduthurai government hospital in Tamil Nadu and their samples sent to Tiruvarur Government Medical College Hospital for Covid-19 tests.Of the 10 foreign nationals, five were from France, three from Cameroon, a central African country, and one each from Belgium and Congo, also in central Africa, police confirmed. Two others, one from Maharashtra and another from Bihar, acted as guides to the TJ preachers.Mayiladuthurai deputy superintendent of police K Annadurai said the TJ delegation had reached Needur village near Mayiladuthurai from Karaikal on March 25 to preach Islam. “They did not attend the TJ conference in Delhi. We are waiting for the swab sample test result,” he said.On April 9, based on information from the special branch police in Nagapattinam, a police team led by Mayiladuthurai police inspector Singaravelu and sub-inspector N Jayaraman searched a madrassa in Needur village. Subsequently, they arrested all the 10 missionaries and their two guides.During interrogation, they came to know that the group of missionaries had arrived on a tourist visa and had no permission to carry out a religious mission in the country, police said. They produced them before Mayiladuthurai judicial magistrate at his house the same evening. The magistrate remanded them to 15-day judicial custody after which they were admitted to isolation wards in the Mayiladuthurai government hospital. All of them had arrived in Karaikal on March 19, after touring some northern states. Later, following the nation-wide lockdown, they remained in the madrassa.The same day, on April 9, the Needamangalam police in Tiruvarur district had arrested 13 Myanmar nationals on charges of violating Section 144 of CrPC and Foreigners Act 1946. They were later admitted to the Tiruvarur government hospital.Two of them tested Covid-19 positive and were admitted to isolation wards in the Tiruvarur Government Medical College Hospital. Others were placed under home quarantine. All the 13 had arrived in Tiruvarur from the Tablighi Jamaat headquarters in Delhi on March 24 and were guests of families in Needamangalam.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/10-foreign-jamaat-members-arrested-kept-in-isolation/articleshow/75102498.cms||D Vincent Arockiaraj
April 12, 2020||Allahabad||AU prof with TJ link tests negative for coronavirus||Prayagraj: The Allahabad University (AU) sprofessor, who kept information about attending the Tablighi Jammat event in Delhi from police, tested negative for novel coronavirus (Covid1-19) on Saturday — two days after he and his family were quarantined at a guest house in Kareli. The professor’s wife and son, who were quarantined along with him, also tested negative. The three were picked up from their Rasoolabad house on Wednesday night by Prayagraj police and quarantined. According to reports, he had returned to Prayagraj after attending the congregation at Nizamuddin Markaz in Delhi from March 6-10 An FIR was registered against him at Shivkuti police station for not informing the authorities about his travel history. Police said the man had also visited Ethiopia a few months before attending the Tablighi event in Delhi. He returned to Prayagraj on March 11 and was put on invigilator duty by the university from March 12-16. He was allotted duty in a hall in which over 140 students appeared for their exams on each of the five days. Swab samples of the professor and his family members were sent to MLN Medical College for testing and the reports showed that they were negative. They are still being quarantined as a precautionary measure. AU administration is mulling serving a notice to the professor. “The university was waiting for the test results. We are relieved that the faculty member tested negative for Covid-19. The varsity may issue a notice to the professor for hiding his travel history from the authorities,” said AU public relations officer Shailendra Mishra.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/allahabad/au-prof-with-tj-link-tests-negative-for-coronavirus/articleshow/75102389.cms||---
April 12, 2020||Hyderabad||Doctors seek guidelines on cancer surgeries||HYDERABAD: With several restrictions on elective surgeries and hospitals increasingly becoming out of bounds, oncologists said that the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) must look into the possibility of framing guidelines for patients requiring cancer surgeries to avoid delays in surgeries. Though delaying the surgery is possible in a few cases, in a majority of cases, it can be harmful. “The risks of delay in treatment for patients with rapidly progressing and potentially curable tumors may outweigh the risks of Covid-19 exposure or infection,” said Dr Chinnababu Sunkavalli, senior robotic surgical oncologist and founder CEO, Grace Cancer Foundation. A few experts said that patients receiving radiation for symptom control are at lower risk of harm. “Cancer surgeries cannot wait too long. As the lockdown might be extended, the ICMR must incorporate guidelines for patients requiring cancer surgeries,” said Dr P Raghu Ram, president, Association of Surgeons of India. In a letter to the Centre, he said: “By indefinitely deferring patients that require cancer surgery, there is a possibility of stage migration of cancer resulting in early cancers progressing to advanced stage. This could be dangerous and eventually add to the high costs of cancer care.” Stating that in a country like India, delay in cancer care could be a disaster in waiting, the letter further said that there is an urgent need for ICMR guidelines for patients requiring ‘urgent’ cancer surgeries. Doctors say that telemedicine and teleconsultations, especially in the light of revised government norms, is of limited value, but helps in non-essential visits. However, a lot of the visits are essential and require hospital intervention. “If the disease is not life-threatening and does not threaten limb loss due to postponement, surgery may be postponed to a more appropriate time. The threshold for postponement should be lower for people who are at higher risk, elderly, diabetic and hypertensives with pre-op lung issues,” said Dr Geetha Nagasree N, senior surgical oncologist, Care Hospitals. She also stressed the need for psychiatric and psychological counseling sessions for patients who develop mental health issues during this time.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/docs-seek-guidelines-on-cancer-surgeries/articleshow/75102036.cms||Amrita Didyala
April 12, 2020||Kochi||Kochi: People ignore social distancing to buy meat||KOCHI: Yet another Easter week is coming to an end and just like the 2018 Onam, which was spoiled by the floods, this year’s Easter is set to become a dull affair, thanks to the Covid-19 outbreak and the lockdown. However, on Easter Eve, Kochiites decided to not give up without a fight and tried to buy some meat to be cooked for Easter leading to serpentine queues at meat stalls in the city till the stock ran out. Policemen did frequent the stalls urging buyers to maintain social distancing even as they refrained from taking any penal action as there was an informal relaxation in place, considering the fact that it was Easter the next day. A policeman said that they urged people to wear masks and maintain social distancing but did not book them unless they committed any blatant lockdown violations. “Most places had neat queues. I guess the problem was that most places had one buffalo and so many customers, who all wanted at least a few kilograms,” said a police officer on condition of anonymity. Meanwhile, the queues at the meat stalls offered a space for many to share their lockdown stories even as some others remained extra cautious in their masks and gloves, refusing to utter a word or make contact with anyone. They just somehow wanted to go home with the meat. “Just imagine, we are standing in a queue for food. Look at our plight,” one among the customers said at such a queue at Vaduthala. Another one however had a totally different issue. He wanted the feathers plucked from the chicken instead of the bird getting skinned. However, the shopowner was adamant that he would only skin the bird as plucking takes a lot of time, leading to a minor argument and subsequent storming out of the customer. A third guy, however, realized that he had some hens at his home, which he can kill for meat, only after standing in the queue for a while. Anyhow, most had to spend nearly an hour, as they waited for their turn wearing masks. District collector S Suhas has warned that strict action will be initiated against those who violate the restriction imposed as part of lockdown in view of Easter and Vishu celebrations. 1,225kg of stale fish seized Food safety department on Saturday destroyed 1,225kg of stale fish, seized from Chambakkara market and from two containers kept in a private land near Munabam beach. Officials said five pieces of sailfish, weighing 10kg each, were two months old and were stored in a cold storage in the market. Rest of the 1,175kg stale fish was found kept in two containers parked at a private property near Munabam beach,” said a food safety official. Yellowfin tuna, bluefin travally and sailfish were brought from Tamil Nadu in two containers.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/people-ignore-social-distancing-to-buy-meat/articleshow/75100689.cms||---
April 12, 2020||Vadodara||I work to give my unborn baby a healthy world, says 108 paramedic||Vadodara: She is six months pregnant. But this 27-year-old paramedic has not taken a break since Covid-19 pandemic made its entry in the city last month. As a paramedic working with 108 emergency ambulance service, Dhara Thakar, is on the frontline handling medical emergencies throughout the day. Since the outbreak of the deadly virus in the city last month, Thakar has been confidently handling all kinds of emergencies even as her family members are asking her to go for complete rest. And it is not that she is doing it for some financial constraints. “I want my baby to be delivered in a healthy world. If we don’t work right now, who else will,” said Thakar, who has been working with GVK Emergency Management and Research Institute (GVK EMRI) 108 since the past 11 years. Initially, she faced lot of resistance from her family members for her decision to continue her work despite the risks involved. “I am pregnant for the first time and so many in my family wanted me to take a rest or take leave to avoid any possible complications. My husband Jay had worked with 108 ambulance service in the past. I convinced him and he convinced others in our family,” said the Gorwa resident, whose husband now runs a private transport business while his father-in-law is also a health worker in Dahod. From the time, the city started witnessing COVID-19 cases, she has handled dozen-odd cases of suspected individuals from Bird Circle, Gorwa to Tandalja (that has been declared a red zone). But she is not terrified. “I have handled many emergencies in the past, be it those related to violence, heart ailments or even flu outbreaks. We take enough precautions like wearing gloves, masks, aprons, caps and goggles. Also, the ambulance is sterilized after each trip ends and the patient is dropped at SSG Hospital or GMERS Medical College and Hospital, Gotri,” said Thakar, who has done general nursing course from Patan.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/i-work-to-give-my-unborn-baby-a-healthy-world-says-108-paramedic/articleshow/75101649.cms||Prashant Rupera
April 12, 2020||Goa||Govt sets up 2 committees to revive economy||Panaji: Chief minister Pramod Sawant on Saturday said that the economic revival committee and expenditure prioritising committee have been notified. Sawant told reporters that the economic revival committee comprised businessmen Shrinivas Dempo, Shivanand Salgaocar, Nitin Kunkolienkar, besides representative from the State Bank of India among others. Finance secretary Daulat Hawaldar will be the member secretary, the chief minister said. The committee will hold a consultation with members of industry and trade bodies and submit a preliminary report within 10 days. The final report will be submitted in 20 days, Sawant said. He said that a three-member committee headed by chief secretary Parimal Rai will give the government a report on the work that needs to be taken up on priority The committee will include the finance secretary and principal secretary as members. After iron ore mining stopped in Goa, the state has been completely dependent on tourism for revenue, which has been impacted by the Covid-19 pandemic.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/govt-sets-up-2-committees-to-revive-economy/articleshow/75102504.cms||---
April 12, 2020||Goa||‘Give APL card holders more rice’||Margao: Navelim MLA and former CM Luizinho Faleiro on Saturday wrote to chief minister Pramod Sawant and civil supplies minister Govind Gaude urging them to extend the benefit of additional quota of 5kg of rice per person per month to Above Poverty Line (APL) ration card holders as well. Faleiro said that while fair price shops have released the additional rice quota free to all NFSA (AAY and PHH) ration card holders, APL card holders were getting only 8kg rice per card irrespective of the number of persons in the household.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/give-apl-card-holders-more-rice/articleshow/75102502.cms||---
April 12, 2020||Cuttack||Women lead Odisha’s fight against coronavirus||BHUBANESWAR: Women have taken the lead in the fight against Covid-19 in the state. The leadership and perseverance showcased by women, not just those in key administrative positions but at the grassroots, have helped Odisha keep its patient count to a relatively low 50. From contact tracing to collecting samples, from testing potential infection carriers to buying protective gear and ensuring availability of food, essential items and masks, these women are working shoulder to shoulder with their male counterparts. Take for instance the three big testing facilities in the state — AIIMS and the Regional Medical Research Centre (RMRC) in Bhubaneswar and SCB Medical College and Hospital in Cuttack. All are headed by women. Then there is Shalini Pandit, mission director of National Health Mission, Yamini Sarangi, managing director of Odisha State Medical Corporation Limited, and Sujata Karthikeyan, director of Mission Shakti, all of who are leading from the front. AIIMS director Gitanjali Batmanabane said she was free to focus on her work simply because her mother was managing the home front. “We are constantly on call, even at night. We have to be alert 24X7. Coronavirus has taken over everything,” she added. The RMRC, the wing of the Indian Medical Research Council in Bhubaneswar that has taken the lead role in testing for Covid-19, is not only headed by a woman, the majority of its members are also women. “Our virus research and diagnostic laboratory is headed by Jyotirmayee Turuk, whose team of scientists and technicians comprises several hardworking women. Women have more perseverance and they do their work more meticulously,” said director of RMRC, Sanghamitra Pati. Sanghamitra thanked both the male scientists at RMRC and the family members of the women staff for providing mental and physical support to them during this challenging time. “We are ensuring that our staff do not suffer a burnout because of the work pressure. The trust of the state and the confidence that the people have shown in us have given us the motivation we needed to do the work,” she added. The head of the microbiology department of SCB Medical College and Hospital, Nirupama Chayani, said her priority right now was work and only work. “I am coming home for an hour every day only to eat. I think God has made women strong for such difficult times.” Shalini, whose team is at the forefront of the battle, said, “Women have always handled the bulk of healthcare. There are many faceless workers, including women doctors, nurses screening Covid-19 patients and health workers (ANM, AWW, ASHA) going from house to house and checking the health of the people.” MD of OSMCL, Yamini, said, “No doubt the time we are going through is very stressful, but I am not tired. My family is a big support for me. In terms of procurement of personal protective equipment (PPE), essential drugs, surgical equipment, the state is very well prepared. Besides, orders have been placed for 424 units of ICU ventilators.” Not just women at the top, lakhs of women fighters across the state are working day in and day out to make people’s lives easier. Among them are over 70 lakh women of self-help groups. Mission Shakti director, Sujata, said, “They are our social capital. During any difficult time, our grass-root sheroes have always come forward and lent their support; be it in the form of creating awareness, making masks or providing cooked food to the poor.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/cuttack/women-lead-states-fight-against-coronavirus/articleshow/75106872.cms||Minati Singha
April 12, 2020||Bhubaneswar||Women lead Odisha’s fight against coronavirus||BHUBANESWAR: Women have taken the lead in the fight against Covid-19 in the state. The leadership and perseverance showcased by women, not just those in key administrative positions but at the grassroots, have helped Odisha keep its patient count to a relatively low 50. From contact tracing to collecting samples, from testing potential infection carriers to buying protective gear and ensuring availability of food, essential items and masks, these women are working shoulder to shoulder with their male counterparts. Take for instance the three big testing facilities in the state — AIIMS and the Regional Medical Research Centre (RMRC) in Bhubaneswar and SCB Medical College and Hospital in Cuttack. All are headed by women. Then there is Shalini Pandit, mission director of National Health Mission, Yamini Sarangi, managing director of Odisha State Medical Corporation Limited, and Sujata Karthikeyan, director of Mission Shakti, all of who are leading from the front. AIIMS director Gitanjali Batmanabane said she was free to focus on her work simply because her mother was managing the home front. “We are constantly on call, even at night. We have to be alert 24X7. Coronavirus has taken over everything,” she added. The RMRC, the wing of the Indian Medical Research Council in Bhubaneswar that has taken the lead role in testing for Covid-19, is not only headed by a woman, the majority of its members are also women. “Our virus research and diagnostic laboratory is headed by Jyotirmayee Turuk, whose team of scientists and technicians comprises several hardworking women. Women have more perseverance and they do their work more meticulously,” said director of RMRC, Sanghamitra Pati. Sanghamitra thanked both the male scientists at RMRC and the family members of the women staff for providing mental and physical support to them during this challenging time. “We are ensuring that our staff do not suffer a burnout because of the work pressure. The trust of the state and the confidence that the people have shown in us have given us the motivation we needed to do the work,” she added. The head of the microbiology department of SCB Medical College and Hospital, Nirupama Chayani, said her priority right now was work and only work. “I am coming home for an hour every day only to eat. I think God has made women strong for such difficult times.” Shalini, whose team is at the forefront of the battle, said, “Women have always handled the bulk of healthcare. There are many faceless workers, including women doctors, nurses screening Covid-19 patients and health workers (ANM, AWW, ASHA) going from house to house and checking the health of the people.” MD of OSMCL, Yamini, said, “No doubt the time we are going through is very stressful, but I am not tired. My family is a big support for me. In terms of procurement of personal protective equipment (PPE), essential drugs, surgical equipment, the state is very well prepared. Besides, orders have been placed for 424 units of ICU ventilators.” Not just women at the top, lakhs of women fighters across the state are working day in and day out to make people’s lives easier. Among them are over 70 lakh women of self-help groups. Mission Shakti director, Sujata, said, “They are our social capital. During any difficult time, our grass-root sheroes have always come forward and lent their support; be it in the form of creating awareness, making masks or providing cooked food to the poor.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhubaneswar/women-lead-states-fight-against-coronavirus/articleshow/75100692.cms||Minati Singha
April 12, 2020||Trichy||Artists take to roads to create awareness||Trichy: Insisting that residents stay at home and practise social distancing, Trichy District Artists Association on Saturday has used Salai Road junction near the new passport office as a canvas to paint with coronavirus. The artists had also painted in four other places including Thiruverumbur, Palpannai, Srirangam and Manachanallur to spread awareness. “Medical professionals, police and sanitary workers are doing a lot to combat the deadly virus. We as part of our contribution are promoting awareness among the people through paintings by insisting them to stay at home,” V Nagendiran, district president of the artists’ association said. The graffiti on Salai Road measures 60 feet in length and 30 feet in width was painted by 25 artists from 9 am to 2 pm on Saturday. Around 25 artists participated in the awareness drive after obtaining permissions from the authorities. “We have planned to draw awareness graffiti at the district collectorate as well,” Nagendiran added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/artists-take-to-roads-to-create-awareness/articleshow/75102501.cms||---
April 12, 2020||Aurangabad||Government gathers data to transport stranded people||The union government has started collecting data from all the district collectors about the total number of migrants stranded in camps, for making appropriate arrangements to send them to their respective home towns. To avoid mass exodus, as well as the spread of Covid-19, state government has set up several thousand camps. As many as five lakh people are estimated to be staying in these camps. Director general of railway protection force has issued an internal communication that the intelligence wing has been tasked with the collection of data from their respective district administration, before sharing the same with the government. The data will include details of where the migrants work, their home town and their family members. As per the figures available with the state government, there are 4,653 shelter camps, currently housing over 4.54 lakh migrants, who were in transit. During the on-going lockdown, the state is providing food to over 5.50 lakh migrants. In Marathwada region, as on date, there are 218 camps, a majority of them started by the district administrations, housing 20,721 people, most of them hailing from different states. As per the plan, the migrants would be taken to railway stations, from where they can board trains, which would halt only at selected major railway stations. The station masters at each of the stations would be updated about the total number of passengers expected to get down at the respective stations. Moreover, the commuters will have to make their food arrangement, as none of the food stalls or no food catering services would be allowed in the trains. When contacted, Aurangabad district collector Uday Choudhari confirmed about the railway authorities collecting data of those currently housed in the camps situated in the district. Indian Railway Passenger Sena president Santoshkumar Somani, who is currently coordinating with the project, said the train doors would be locked, and each coach would be allowed to carry not more than 105 commuters.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/government-gathers-data-to-transport-stranded-people/articleshow/75101366.cms||Mohammed Akhef
April 12, 2020||Bhubaneswar||40-year-old Ulaka sticks to routine in spite of working from home||KORAPUT: The lockdown has hit the routine of many, but not that of 40-year-old Koraput MP Saptagiri Ulaka. Even though he is working from home (WFH), the first-time MP spends most of his time taking stock of the Covid-19 situation in his constituency and coordinating with the authorities to address the problems of his area, if any. “My day starts at 6 am by making calls to my people and the district administrations of my constituency to know what is happening on the ground. Also, I receive hundreds of calls from my people and try to solve their problems in coordination with the officials concerned,” said Ulaka, who was forced to stay put in New Delhi because of the lockdown. “Most people of my constituency reach out to me over WhatsApp, Facebook and Twitter and all requests received are taken forward. Not a single call or message is left unattended to. Also, I check up on Odias stuck outside the state and take steps for their safety,” he added. Following the MP’s initiative, a group of Odias stuck in Coimbatore in Tamil Nadu without ration and food were rescued by the administration on Thursday. Also, the MP spends time preparing private member bills and questions for the next session of Parliament. Apart from doing routine work of his parliamentary constituency, which covers the entire Rayagada district and four assembly segments of Koraput district, Ulaka has also undertaken a voyage of discovery. “Owing to my hectic daily routine, I was not getting time to read some books of my favourite writers. Now I am doing that. I make sure that each day I spend at least two hours reading and I am trying to write articles as well,” he said. The lockdown has also provided the MP with ample scope to spend time with family, watch movies and television. “Apart from my professional work, I assist my wife in the kitchen. Watching Netflix and TV are some of the other means through which I keep myself engaged,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhubaneswar/40-yr-old-ulaka-sticks-to-routine-in-spite-of-wfh/articleshow/75100695.cms||Satyanarayan Pattnaik
April 12, 2020||Kolhapur||Maharashtra buys excess milk to be turned into powder||KOLHAPUR: The state government has started procuring excess milk collected from dairies to ensure that farmers are paid at least Rs 25 per litre. After the dairies, private and cooperatives, reduced collection, some distressed farmers had dumped the milk in the open. The state government then decided to step in. It is now buying the excess milk from the dairies, for which, farmers will get Rs 25 per litre. The dairies have been asked to convert this milk into butter and powder and store the stock with them. The milk powder can be stored up to six months, and butter for three months. The government will sell this stock when required. The state government has set aside Rs 200 crore for the procurement and conversion. Currently, the industries and establishments dependent on milk such as tea stalls and hotels are closed. This has resulted in a drop in the collection. Usually, the daily milk collection of Gokul is 12 lakh litre, which dropped to 8 lakh litre after the lockdown. Similarly, the Rajarambapu dairy procures 2 lakh litre, which dropped to 1.6 lakh litre. Over the past three days, around 4.5 lakh litre have been procured and sent to the conversion plants of Mahanand dairy and other cooperative dairies such as Gokul. Ranjit Deshmukh, chairman of government-owned Mahanand dairy, said, “We will procure around 10 lakh litre of excess milk. The farmers will get assured price of Rs 25 per litre, which will keep the rural economy going,” he said. He added that private dairies, which collect around 70% of the total 1.25 crore daily collection, had stopped taking milk from farmers. Around 60% of the daily collection is sold in packets and rest is converted into byproducts on normal days. Private dairies have slashed the rate at which they buy milk from farmers – from Rs 30 per litre to Rs 20 per litre. They will now have to raise the procurement price. “Before the lockdown, the rates were around Rs 30 per litre. It is expected that the state government’s decision will help reduce the selling price of the milk. It will bring some relief to buyers as well. “In south Maharashtra region, the cooperative dairies such as Gokul and Rajarambabu dairies have sufficient capacity to convert milk into milk powder and butter. Mahanand dairy too has its own plant. The government will stock the products and sell the same to the confectionery industry, bakeries and industries making nutrition-based products. The butter will be stored in the cold storage facilities," added Deshmukh. The dairies have stopped producing the byproducts such as buttermilk, curd, cheese, paneer and sweets mainly due to lack of demand.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolhapur/state-buys-excess-milk-to-be-turned-into-powder/articleshow/75102042.cms||---
April 12, 2020||Mangaluru||Nearly 1,500 bhoota kola, nema festivals of Tulunadu cancelled||Mangaluru: Daivaradhane is an important folk ritual of Tulunadu, with kola and nema festivals being a part of it. The spirit-cult involving worship of semi divine spirit is practised in the undivided Dakshina Kannada district and coastal areas of north Kerala. Daivaradhana or Sathyaaradhane are worshiped periodically — once a year or once in two years — with great pomp and festivity by the community or by individual families. According to an estimate, at least 1,500 kola and nema festivals have been cancelled in the undivided Dakshina Kannada district due to the lockdown. Over one lakh people associated with this religious art form have been hit hard. The Bhoota Kola season starts during Deepavali and ends with Pattanaje in May. Celebrities, including actors Shilpa Shetty and Anushka Shetty, visit their ancestral homes to be part of this event. There are about five communities — Parava, Pambada, Koopalam, Nalke and Paanaara — which enact the demi-gods and traditionally receive rice as honorarium for the service. They work for about six months a year, and their payments may have increased over the years. Rituals are not only about artistes donning the role of demigods, or the priest or the Daivapatri, but also engage several traditional artistes, singers, troupes and other castes like dhobi, potter, oil-miller and others. Karnataka Tulu Sahitya Academy president Dayananda G Kattalsar said: “Those involved in Daivaradhane or Sathyaaradhane come from poor background. I have reached out to district minister Kota Shrinivas Poojari, MP Nalin Kumar Kateel and minister C T Ravi to help these families. The problem is that they are not even considered as unorganised workers. Though they also offer their services in temples, they do not earn a fixed salary (unlike priests). Their income depends on the performances at rituals. Some philanthropists have offered to help them. More than lakh families will be affected. There is a need to strengthen the community and work for their upliftment.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mangaluru/nearly-1500-bhoota-kola-nema-festivals-of-tulunadu-cancelled/articleshow/75101371.cms||Deepthi Sanjiv
April 12, 2020||Trichy||Social distancing ignored in scramble for food packets||Trichy: Since the lockdown began, the vicinity near the Mahatma Gandhi Memorial (MGM) Government Hospital has become a main spot for serving food to the needy. However, little effort has been taken to maintain social distancing as attendants and homeless people nearby clamber to get hold of a food packet. This has made residents nearby apprehensive over the possibility of Covid-19 spreading.Even before the lockdown, MGM campus was identified as one of the 22 hunger spots by volunteers of NGO No Food Waste. The spacious pedestrian platforms near the hospital is home to homeless people who rely on the food provided by good Samaritans near the hospital throughout the year. After the lockdown was implemented, the demand for food has increased in the vicinity as all the other eateries nearby were closed, as even the attenders of patients needed food. This has apparently invited individuals and NGOs from various parts of the city to serve food, water and snacks near the hospital. During noon, when volunteers provide hundreds of food packets, it is almost a near-stampede situation at the distribution points.“Social distancing is not at all practised at the food distribution points near MGM. Residents near the hospital have raised concern over the huge crowd assembling each day,” said K Suresh, AITUC district general secretary. Locals said that the footfall is increasing each day. As a solution, they suggested the corporation to move a section of the homeless people to their all-weather shelters, which are running at full capacity now. Residents also urged the civic body to identify temporary space to house the homeless to ensure social distancing. Revenue and Trichy Corporation officials, when contacted, told TOI that stakeholders will be consulted to solve the issue.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/social-distancing-ignored-in-scramble-for-food-packets/articleshow/75102506.cms||Deepak Karthik
April 12, 2020||Rajkot||Rajkot man violated lockdown 21 times||Rajkot: The B-division police have arrested a resident of Sant Kabir Road for violating prohibitory orders as many as 21 times. DGP Shivanand Jha said, "He was spotted 21 times through automatic number plate recognition camera (ANRC) while roaming on the city roads. When he was stopped and asked about the reason for coming out of the house during the lockdown, he said that he was going to buy medicines. But we could not digest the reason he gave and he was arrested,” Jha said. Though he lives near Sant Kabir Road, Parmar was spotted in areas like Trikon Baug and Dhebar Road which far from his residence. Meanwhile, as many as 607 people were booked for violation of lockdown order in Rajkot city and Jamnagar . TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/rajkot-man-violated-lockdown-21-times/articleshow/75102049.cms||---
April 12, 2020||Goa||Railways responsible if people enter on goods train: CM||Panaji: Chief minister Pramod Sawant on Saturday directed the inspector general of police (IGP) to hold the railway station master responsible if any person is found trying to enter the state through goods trains. Sawant told reporters that he has received information that some people from Hubballi in Karnataka were disembarking from goods trains at Vasco. “I have directed the IGP to hold the station master responsible. The IGP will warn the station master,” he said. If strict lockdown is to be maintained then people from should not be allowed to enter through the railways route, Sawant said. “For the next 15 days we will not allow anyone to enter. We have given the IGP strict instructions.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/rlys-responsible-if-people-enter-on-goods-train-cm/articleshow/75102507.cms||---
April 12, 2020||Trichy||5 illegal liquor units busted by Perambalur police in two days||Trichy: Prohibition enforcement wing (PEW) police personnel in Perambalur district, in the last two days, have detained five people under the prohibition Act and sealed five makeshift illicit liquor manufacturing units that had a capacity to brew 50 to 100 litres of illegal liquor each. With the liquor outlets closed as a part of nationwide lockdown to tackle the spread of Covid-19, many illegal makeshift liquor manufacturing units have come to light.Cashing in on the closure of liquor outlets and rallying on the desperation of tipplers to consume liquor, police said that these makeshift units are cropping up in rural Perambalur. Based on a tip-off, a team of PEW police headed by ADSP, R Rajaram on Friday sealed three such units in three different locations of Palla Kalingarayanallur village near Kunnam. On Saturday, two more illegal liquor production units in the same village were sealed by the PEW team. Remote locations such as shelters near agriculture field were being used for thispurpose. Ingredients including yeast, jaggery and Kadukkai (myrobalan) were used in making the liquor, police said. “Due to the recurrence of illegal liquor production units, we have enhanced the surveillance. Two special teams were formed to randomly check the hotspots in villages,” Rajaram said. Police said that the production units in Palla Kalingarayanallur village were set up in a manner to produce liquor in bulk for sales. “We will also rope in the local police station personnel if needed,” Rajaram added. PEW personnel in the past two days have confiscated 430 litres of illicit liquor in Perambalur district.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/5-illegal-liquor-units-busted-by-perambalur-police-in-two-days/articleshow/75102503.cms||Deepak Karthik
April 12, 2020||Thiruvananthapuram||City corp finds new takers for kitchen bins||Thiruvananthapuram: When distancing and minimal contact is in vogue, the city corporation is finding unprecedented reception for source level waste management.  The corporation has received over 260 requests for decentralized waste management units from various wards in the city as people have either shunned unauthorized collection of waste from different places by same parties or have found source level waste management as an effective option to break the chain and avoid any chance of contamination. The civic body has risen to the new demand and has deployed 86 green technicians with all precautions to cater to the new requests for installation of kitchen bins. The civic body has also set in place new protocols for collection of dry waste from households and deposit of wet waste in community aerobic bins. Households have been advised to store dry waste, especially plastic waste based on specific timelines. Only the bins carrying plastic waste which was deposited four days ago shall be received for recycling at aerobic bins. Besides, those who bring wet waste daily in buckets are asked to deposit the waste in aerobic bins directly and they shall not hand over the bucket containing waste to the corporation staff employed at aerobic bins. The staff shall process the waste using dry leaves and inoculum. “Ever since we launched the project based on source level treatment, this is the first time we are getting such a great demand for kitchen bins. Over 260 calls have been received in the past 14 days alone. We will install kitchen bins for free and a sufficient number of green technicians have been deployed,” said a corporation health official. The corporation has steadfastly held on to source level treatment even while the state government has been keen on pushing waste to energy centralized plants which requires transportation from all points. “During these times, the relevance of source level waste management has increased as it involves almost no transportation and minimizes points of contact. We have also introduced new protocols based on for how long the virus survives on different surfaces,” the official said. Illegal waste collection from households has often posed a headache for the corporation to propagate source level waste treatment. As for large residential complexes, the corporation plans to communicate to associations about the need for longer period of inhouse storage of dry waste until the lockdown is lifted and collection drives could be organized in the city. The civic body plans to make use of 414 aerobic bins installed in 55 places in the city.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/thiruvananthapuram/city-corp-finds-new-takers-for-kitchen-bins/articleshow/75100719.cms||Aswin J Kumar
April 12, 2020||Kochi||Cops’ video brings hope to public||Kochi: Kochi City police has brought out a video to instil hope and optimism among the public to fight the pandemic. The video, titled ‘Nirbhayam’ directed by inspector A Ananthalal who is also the lead singer, features a poem about overcoming Covid. The video has become a huge hit on the social media. The concept developed by ADGP Manoj Abraham and IG Vijay Sakhare features the poem, written by lyricist Madhu Vasudevan and composed by Rhithwik S Chand. The lyrics emphasizes that the state police are with the people and that the state would overcome this calamity as well. The video starts with a police route march by the City police led by DCP G Poonguzhali herself, donning masks and gloves. Ananthalal is shown in the video singing at a studio, in uniform. In between, the video reminds the viewer about the floods and the Nipah outbreak, which the state successfully overcame. The activities by Kochi police, including goodwill activities and surveillance, are also depicted in the video. “The video was created based on the instruction by ADG Manoj Abraham and IG Vijay Sakhare. DCP G Poonguzhali helped us a lot by coordinating. A group of my friends and professionals assisted us in bringing out the final product,” said Ananthalal. Six other singers, including playback singer Najeem Arshad and central CI Vijay Shankar, are part of the video.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/cops-video-brings-hope-to-public/articleshow/75100714.cms||---
April 12, 2020||Pune||Pune: Criminal held for stealing gold ornaments worth Rs 13.2 lakh||PUNE: The Kondhwa police on Tuesday brought home an absconding history-sheeter wanted for committing burglary in a businessman’s bungalow at Khadi Machine Chowk nearly four months ago. The police have recovered gold ornaments worth Rs13.2 lakh from the suspect, identified as Kashinath Gaikwad (28). He had stolen the ornaments and cash after breaking into the bungalow of Sandeep Badhe on December 20 last year. Gaikwad has 40 cases registered against him at various police stations since 2014. “We had ascertained the identity of Gaikwad after spotting him in CCTV footage collected from the camera outside the bungalow soon after the burglary. We later scoured footage of over 80 CCTV cameras between Kondhwa and Khadakwasala for identifying the routes used by the suspect. The trail-tracing helped us to identify his residence in Kirkatwadi. We visited the spot twice to nab him, but Gaikwad was not found there,” sub-inspector Santosh Shinde of the Kondhwa police said. “We then traced his location to Afzalpur and Gulbarga in Karnataka. By the time our team reached the spot, Gaikwad had already fled from there. We then shared his details with the Karnataka police and sought their help in arresting him,” Shinde said. The officer said the Gulbarga rural police arrested Gaikwad on April 6 following a tip-off. “He was then brought to Pune the next day for further investigation, during which it was revealed that Gaikwad had kept hidden the booty at a safehouse in Dudhani taluka of Akkalkot district, Solapur,” Shinde said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/criminal-held-for-stealing-gold-ornaments-worth-rs-13-2l/articleshow/75102511.cms||Asseem Shaikh
April 12, 2020||Aurangabad||Jalna police raid bar providing home delivery of liquor, arrest 5||AURANGABAD: The Jalna police have raided a bar for allegedly providing home delivery of liquor to its customers and arrested five suspects, including the owner of the bar. Police also seized his vehicle which was used for transportation of liquor. Due to the current lockdown along with the restriction on sale and supply of liquor, addicts are coming up with new ways for quenching their urge for liquor, police said. The Jalna police’s local crime branch inspector Rajendersingh Gaur arrested the suspects, including owner of Hotel Chandralok Bar and seized his vehicle. The car was intercepted in the Nutan Vasahat area. The probe revealed that the suspects were on their way to make home delivery of the liquor to some customers. Inspector Gaur said, “It has been found that the addicts are going to any extent for getting liquor. And so as to make quick money out of the sudden demand, those having legal stock of the liquor, are opting for illegal ways to supply and deliver liquor in an illegal manner.” In Aurangabad city too, several boxes of liquor were seized by the Pundaliknagar police station. Inspector Ghanshyan Sonawne said that due to sudden restrictions on the sale and supply of liquor, the demand has surged. “The suspects that we have caught includes a woman criminal on record,” said Sonawne The officer said that the preliminary probe has revealed that the woman was selling country liquor bottle having an MRP of Rs 52 at an exorbitant rate of Rs 250. “What has surprised us that even shabbily dressed people from the low income groups were ready to purchase the liquor at this price,” said Sonawne. Sources said that police are currently taking extra efforts to keep a check on the sale and supply of liquor as it has been found that several people are found violating the lockdown orders and stepping out of their homes in search of liquor.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/jalna-police-raid-bar-providing-home-delivery-of-liquor-arrest-5/articleshow/75101384.cms||---
April 12, 2020||Goa||Workers begin monsoon prep sans masks, sanitiser||Quepem: Civic bodies are picking up the pace to execute pre-monsoon works, but questions are being raised after labourers were seen working without the protective gear essential to contain spread of Covid-19. Following the government’s instructions, many civic bodies have commenced the process of cleaning drains in their jurisdiction. Ambaulim and Xeldem panchayats began clearing drains in their respective wards on Wednesday, but labourers were seen without any masks or gloves, raising fears of being a threat to people passing by. “Not a single migrant labourer was using face mask or other safety equipment while working in the populated area. People are apprehensive that they may transfer the virus to the locals,” said Christanand Pednekar, a Tanki resident. Both the Ambaulim and Xeldem labourers said the panchayat has not supplied face masks, sanitisers or other protective gear. Xeldem sarpanch Caetano F J Lima told TOI that after he had issued clear instructions to the labourers to wear face masks while working, they said instead of masks they will make use of their towels. “If labourers are found without covering their faces I will terminate their services,” said Lima. When TOI brought to the notice of Ambaulim sarpanch Jacinta Dias that their labourers are not wearing face masks, she immediately supplied face masks to all eight workers. Quepem Municipal Council had commenced their drain cleaning work last Saturday following instructions from the urban development department, said former chairperson Filu D’Costa. “If the government extends the lockdown period,we will not get the required time to complete the drainage cleaning work because the monsoon is fast approaching. So we will complete the cleaning process as soon as possible by engaging local labourers,” said municipal engineer Nitin Kotharkar.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/workers-begin-monsoon-prep-sans-masks-sanitiser/articleshow/75102512.cms||Johnny M
April 12, 2020||Goa||From secret doors & windows to home delivery, booze is not far away||Panaji: If you have the right contacts in Goa, getting a liquor bottle or two is only a phone call away, even in times of strict lockdowns. More than 11,000 wholesalers and retailers in Goa have downed shutters since the Janata Curfew on March 22. The curfew was followed by a state curfew, and then Prime Minister Narendra Modi announced a national lockdown two days later. At least initially, people across the state struggled to procure essential items. But alcohol has not been in short supply, particularly for those with the right contacts in Goan villages. The modus operandi by most follows a similar pattern. You make a call, pay and then the booze gets dropped at home or at a mutually agreed spot from where the buyer picks up his stuff. Most of the business is conducted either early morning or late evening. The selected spot could be anywhere. For some villages, it could be that big banyan tree, a discarded vehicle that nobody has taken note of or a frequently visited area, which is now deserted because of the lockdown. “A seller keeps bottles at pre-decided spots after payment has been made. There will be at least three or four such points in any village,” said a person, who has been tracking such developments. Some sellers run their business so clandestinely that even excise inspectors on duty have no clue what transpires behind those supposedly closed shutters. The excise department has been doing its job since the lockdown with regular inspections. The department has suspended three licences for illegal sale of alcohol. Normally, a hearing is conducted for the defaulter before licence is suspended, but excise commissioner Amit Satija said they have directly suspended licences of those who were found to be operating in defiance of the lockdown. A trader based in North Goa said conducting sales during lockdown is not as difficult as most would think. The seller has to first meet the buyer, pick up payment and then drop the bottles at a convenient spot. “The only condition is that the buyer must pick up at least three bottles. This arrangement is more convenient in villages. With police patrolling in cities, not many can afford to take the risk,” said the trader. Several traders have been flooded with calls but not everyone can be of help. “My brother who owns an alcohol shop in Ponda has not been able to go there. He has exhausted all the stock he had at home,” said another trader. Many wine store owners have their stock stacked elsewhere. So even if their store has remained closed, they can still pick up the necessary stuff from the “godowns” and hand it over to eager customers. “Many in Calangute have profited from this business. If you happen to be a non-Goan, the rates will be much more. Boys working at my shack have paid 50% more for their drinks,” said one source. Excise inspectors have been doing the rounds everywhere, without much success. Many owners have two windows to their shops, so even if you happen to be in front, you won’t have a clue of what transpires elsewhere inside the same shop. “During the lockdown, the owner will stand about 100m away from his closed shop, but prominently enough to be spotted by his regular customers. They would meet him, place their orders, make payment and then go separate ways. “A few minutes later, the owner enters his shop through the back door. Sometimes it helps that the shop is close to his residence. He will then briefly open one of the window, leave the bottles outside and close. In quick time, the buyer picks up his stuff and disappears,” said one villager. For those who want to play it safe, there is home delivery, of course with an additional delivery charge. For most others, there are “windows of opportunity.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/from-secret-doors-windows-to-home-delivery-booze-is-not-far-away/articleshow/75102513.cms||Bindiya Chari
April 12, 2020||Rajkot||Click on ‘Lokmitra’ to get things at your doorsteps||Rajkot: While looking at people’s needs to sustain daily lives amid the lockdown, Amreli police too were handling violators with an iron fist in a velvet glove. However, this leniency cut both ways as people took advantage of the excuse to buy essentials and cops had to track all suspicious movements. To end this headache, Amreli police came up with a one-stop solution – create an app – that will deliver all essential items at people’s doorsteps!At this juncture, help came from Saroj Gedia, an IT professional and a social worker from Savarkundla in Amreli, who interestingly was highly impressed by the working style of the police when she had file an FIR with Amreli police, a long time ago. However, her ties with the police never snapped ever since and she would often pop in at the police station to greet.When she got a whiff of the plans, she immediately offered her services for free and helped Amreli police develop the mobile application that was christened as ‘Lokmitra’.Thus began Amreli police’s home delivery of fruit and vegetables, medicines and grocery in Amreli, Rajula, Savarkundla and Jafrabad town. They have uploaded all the stores who are willing to do home delivery with their telephone numbers on the app from where people can order at ease. Amreli superintendent of police Nirlipt Rai told TOI: “We don’t have Reliance, Big Bazaar or any such big stores or delivery services in Amreli. The app contains the numbers of nearby retail stores who can deliver vegetables, milk and other essential commodities delivered right at their doorsteps. We have mined data of all such numbers of the fruit and vegetable vendors, milk distributors and also medical retailers in the city who can do home delivery.” The app also contains a list of physicians with their contact numbers. That apart, users will also get the latest updates on notifications by the government, said Rai. On the Apple phone, this app can be downloaded by clicking on the link: https://apps.apple.com/in/app/lokmitra/id1505786919, while on Android phone, the app can be downloaded through the link: https://tinyurl.com/up9v6k5, added the release.Similarly, the Jamnagar police have launched a portal: http://jansarthi.in, through which the users will be able to place their orders online with the traders listed on the portal and get the delivery of essential commodities at their doorsteps. The agents authorized by the police will make the delivery. “Apart from this, our portal also provides the facility of health check-ups, ensures water supply to different areas and helps stranded labourers,” said a senior official from the office of Jamnagar superintendent of police.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/click-on-lokmitra-to-get-things-at-your-doorsteps/articleshow/75102055.cms||---
April 12, 2020||Allahabad||Pvt cos start production of ventilators||Prayagraj: Following government’s directive for private players to pitch in with production of ventilators required for treatment of Covid-19 patients, many companies have rolled out plans for manufacturing these life-saving machines. One of them is Naini-based Veekay Connectors, which supplies machine parts for manufacturing in defence, railways, power and telecom sector. The company will now be producing over 21,000 ventilators. “We are contributing on our part by assembling around 36 parts of the main machine and these would be send to the Bharat Electrical Limited’s (BEL) plant in Bengaluru, where the machine would be finally assembled,” said the company’s managing director of Purnendu Mittal. “We have provided passes for the company’s employees as they are involved in the production of ventilators,’ said Prayagraj district magistrate Bhanu Chandra Goswami.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/allahabad/pvt-cos-start-production-of-ventilators/articleshow/75102390.cms||---
April 12, 2020||Nagpur||Desperate migrants want special permission to return home||Nagpur: Even though the lockdown in Maharashtra has been extended till April 30, many migrants stuck in shelter homes said they should be given special permission to return to their states. Rajesh Parsate of Mandla in Madhya Pradesh said exception should be made for at least those from neighbouring states. “Many of our people are maximum six hours of bus drive away from home. For us or those from Chhattisgarh, they should make arrangements to drop us at least till the border,” said Parsate. Balram Singh, a resident of Balia district in Uttar Pradesh, said he wanted the central and state governments to make arrangements for him to go home. “There is no sign of this virus outbreak ending soon. How long will we stay at this shelter away from our families? We are getting food here but there is nothing to do. I have only my wife with me. All other people here are unknown to me,” said Singh, a construction worker. His wife Rama Devi said she was concerned about her children and in-laws. “The government has no right to hold us up like this. We are not criminals. You can’t lock down the country just like that without letting people an opportunity to go home. The UP government had arranged transport for people like us working in Delhi. The Maharashtra government should do the same,” she told TOI. Shakti Singh, a daily wager from Nagaur (Rajasthan), said, “It’s been nearly two weeks since we were detained here and the government is showing no signs of doing anything to enable us to return to our native places. Our families are waiting there and have no money to survive. They’re barely surviving on some help from neighbours and NGOs.” “Yesterday, they took our details of like from where we came, which train or bus tickets we had purchased and other details of our family members. We thought that they would do something for us. But after today’s extended lockdown, our hopes have been dashed again,” Singh added. “It was fine till April 14, but we are not going to stop even for a day after that. We will run away from here, let the police stop us if they can,” said Nawal Singh from Gwalior district in Madhya Pradesh. Singh and 11 others, including a child, had started from Bengaluru to reach their village in Gwalior on motorcycles. After the group was stopped by the police in Nagpur, they were put up at the shelter home in Sadar. “Livelihood was not a problem but we needed to reach Gwalior. One of our group member’s marriage has been fixed on April 25,” he said. After initial restlessness, the occupants had settled and accepted the fact that they will have to stay till April 14. Now that the dates have been extended, they may not be able to take it anymore, said a guard deployed at the place. “I cannot wait anymore. We have to reach homes before April 15. The wheat crop is ready to be harvested and there is none else at home to do the hard labour,” said Umakant from Hardoi district in Uttar Pradesh. Local daily wagers are not better off and said the lockdown extension will be a big challenge for them. “If we don’t earn, who will fill our stomach?” asked Omprakash Dongarwar, a waiter who used to earn after giving daily service at an eatery which is closed since lockdown. Dongarwar added, “My employer straightaway refused to give me salary. Initially, I was told that he will transfer salary in my bank account but now he denies saying his position is not good. I even approached cops but they too sent me home after a brief scolding.” A house keeping employee working in a corporate company raised a similar query. “If we don’t go on duty, my employer, who has a contract of managing things in that big company, won’t pay me. If I don’t get paid, how will my family survive? We were told to stay home as the operations of that company are shut,” said Ayush Ramteke, a Nandanvan resident.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/desperate-migrants-want-special-permission-to-return-home/articleshow/75100707.cms||Abhishek Choudhari
April 12, 2020||Trichy||Corpn launches veggie pushcarts in all 65 wards||Trichy: The Trichy Corporation on Saturday launched sale of vegetable bags using pushcarts, in all the 65 wards. A pushcart allotted for each zone will sell 30-35 bags containing assorted vegetables per day and would be manned by corporation workers.The move comes in the wake of residents criticising the civic body for not deploying adequate vehicles to sell assorted vegetables bag in all the wards in the city. “As the district administration ordered closure of vegetable markets in the city on Saturday and Sunday, people requiring vegetables can avail the service of our pushcarts,” a corporation official said.Each vegetable bag is priced at Rs 100. Corporation officials said they would soon announce numbers to help residents order vegetables. The price of the bags was revised to from Rs 150 to Rs 100 due to the plunge in wholesale vegetable prices. Each zone has been allotted 500 vegetable bags per day. The civic body has said that the number of vegetable bags will be scaled up in the coming days depending upon the public reception. “Soon we will disclose the ward-level helplines for all the 65 wards to allow pre-ordering of vegetable bags,” the official added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/corpn-launches-veggie-pushcarts-in-all-65-wards/articleshow/75102509.cms||---
April 12, 2020||Allahabad||Police beef up security; 20 held for lockdown breach||PRAYAGRAJ: Police continued aggressive patrolling and beefed up security in Old City as the nationwide lockdown announced in the wake of the Covid-19 outbreak entered its 17th day on Friday. Police also assured Prayagraj residents that helplines are being launched so that the former do not have to make do without essential commodities. Police said the commodities would be delivered at the residents’ doorsteps. Police also conducted foot marches Old City area, while asking residents to stay indoors and follow the lockdown rules strictly. Thirty four persons were booked in the past 24 hours for allegedly violating rules of lockdown enforced to check the spread of the novel coronavirus. Police also arrested 20 persons after lodging 13 FIRs under section 188 of the Indian Penal Code, which deals with violations of section 144 of Criminal Procedure Code. Security has been tightened after acknowledging that people were coming out on streets during evening hours on the pretext of purchase of essential articles like milk and vegetables. Meanwhile, residents living in localities coming under the Prayagraj West assembly constituency and struggling with lack of groceries during the lockdown announced amidst the Covid-19 outbreak now have somebody to help them out. A group of 10 local residents have launched a special helpline (1800313444449) to reach out to those citizens facing difficulty in procuring ample groceries and fetch the commodities for them for free. The helpline will cater to residents living in Mundera, Transport Nagar, Preetam Nagar, Sulemsarai, Rajruppur, Jhalwa, Manori, Bamrauli, Bakrabad, Chhapiya, and other rural areas coming under the constituency. One can dial the helpline and ask the team to deliver commodities like eatables, medicines, surgical equipment and other items at their doorstep. The helpline will be functional on all days from 8am to 8pm.  The citizen-driven initiative is being funded through voluntary contributions from the team members. The complaints usually involve ill residents in need of grocery items, medicines or those who might need to be taken to hospital. Dhananjay Singh, who is heading the initiative, said, “The initiative aims to offer assistance to residents, particularly the elderly and those who are ill, who cannot step out of their homes on their own during the lockdown.” “Once we get a call, we first ascertain the caller’s identity, compile their details and then process their request,” said Singh.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/allahabad/police-beef-up-security-20-held-for-lockdown-breach/articleshow/75089083.cms||---
April 12, 2020||Mysuru||Lockdown not applicable for farming activities: Minister||Mysuru: The state government will issue ‘green pass’ for all farmers for their movement from one place to another to purchase seeds, chemicals and fertilizers during the lockdown period, agriculture minister B C Patil said on Saturday. Speaking to reporters after a meeting with district-level officials and farmer leaders at zilla panchayat office here, he said passes would also be issued to tractor repair garage mechanics; salesmen of tractor companies, agriculture equipment, chemicals and fertilizers, personnel of enterprises & industries involved in promotion of agriculture, horticulture and all kinds of farming activities. They can collect the passes from their respective areas and taluk agriculture offices, he said. The minister also said that lockdown is not applicable to agriculture activities. However, farmers should maintain social distancing and maintain personal hygiene like others for their own safety and health in the wake of Covid-19. As monsoon has picked up and kharif season started in the district, farmers can take up their agriculture activities without any fear, he said. The state government has taken all measures for supply of adequate seeds, chemicals, fertilizers and for procurement of crops and marketing of products. Instructions have been given to all Raitha Samparka Kendras, Krishi Kendras, farmer equipment rent kendras, all chemicals, seeds and fertilizer shops to open and supply their items to the farmers but after maintaining social distancing measures, he said. Directions have also been issued to superintendents of police and officials of district administration to ensure security to farmers coming from border areas of the district and not to close their shops selling agriculture produce. Borders open, except near Kerala Except the check-posts on Kerala-Karnataka border, all other borders are open for facilitation of farming activities. A legal dispute over opening of Kerala-Karnataka border is still pending before the court, he said. On reports of some distressed farmers destroying their crops, vegetables and fruits in the fields itself due to lack of marketing, transportation and tight lockdown measures, the minister urged them not to indulge in such activities. The government will come to their help to ensure marketing facilities, he said. He also directed the officials to ensure adequate cold storages and use available containers to store perishable products. Hinting that lockdown will continue for more days, the minister said that he had toured 19 districts and a detailed report will be submitted to the chief minister about the status of farmers and farming activities after the implementation of lockdown, he said. Patil further said that the state government is planning to come out with a special package to bail farmers out of the farm crisis. The state has already announced minimum support price for various crops. It will come out with MSP for some more crops, he said. Farmer leader seeks package Kurubur Shanthakumar, president of state Sugar Cane Growers Association, urged the government to come out with a special package for farmers in the wake of Covid-19. He demanded waiving of crop loan interest, inclusion of all crops under Pradhan Mantri Fasal Bima Yojana and a direction to sugar mill owners to clear the dues of sugarcane growers.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mysuru/lockdown-not-applicable-for-farming-activities-minister/articleshow/75098340.cms||---
April 12, 2020||Goa||Except GMC, all other govt hospitals, PHCs to reopen OPDs from Monday||Panaji: Chief minister Pramod Sawant on Saturday said the government has decided to reopen the outpatient departments (OPD) of all government hospitals except for Goa Medical College (GMC) and hospital, from Monday. Sawant said that government primary health centres, community health centres, district hospitals and rural medical dispensaries will operate their OPDs on Monday. Earlier, the state government had decided to shut down the OPDs of government hospitals as a precautionary measure to avoid the spread of Covid-19. Sawant appealed to people not to rush to hospitals once the OPDs are opened. Patients who want to collect medicines for diabetes and hypertension may visit the hospitals in the evening, he added. Sawant said that people in urgent need of care and in emergency situations can go to the hospital in the morning hours. “We have decided not to start the OPDs at GMC for a few more days. Only casualty would be operational at GMC, and emergency surgeries will be performed,” he said Sawant said government hospitals will start immunisation and antenatal check-ups (ANC) from Monday. Sawant also urged private hospitals to begin operating their OPDs. Sawant said many people have faced difficulties due to some gynecology clinics and OPDs being shut by private doctors. “Some doctors have even advised pregnant women to go to GMC for delivery, after treating them throughout their pregnancy- this is not right,” Sawant said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/except-gmc-all-other-govt-hospitals-phcs-to-reopen-opds-from-monday/articleshow/75102517.cms||---
April 12, 2020||Aurangabad||Cops accused of slapping Yemeni student, taking Rs 10,000 to release him||AURANGABAD: In a serious allegation, the Consulate General of Republic of Yemen has written a letter to Aurangabad commissioner of police saying policemen slapped a Yemeni student they had detained and released him only after taking Rs 10,000. “Only after he (student) signed blank papers, did they release him and told him that ‘you cannot complain to anyone’,” the letter read. When contacted, inspector of Begumpura police station Sachin Sanap said a probe has been launched into the incident. “Appropriate action will be initiated if we find fault in anyone’s actions,” Sanap said. The incident took place on March 29. Mohammed Ibrahim Al-Askari, a 22-year-old student of psychology at a city-based college, said policemen detained him from a flat he had rented. He said there were other tenants in the flat, including students from Sudan, who would call friends over despite the lockdown. Al-Aksari said his landlord called the police after the guests refused to stay away from the flat during the lockdown. “The policemen reached the flat around 8.30pm. And when they did not find the Sudanese students, they asked me to come out. One of them slapped me,” Al-Aksari told TOI. He alleged that he was slapped once again outside the apartment building when he was waiting for a friend to bring him keys to the bike he was planning to ride to the police station. “After I reached the police station, the cops there took away my passport. They made me sign a blank sheet of paper and demanded Rs 25,000. After some negotiation, they settled for Rs 10,000 and let me off. They warned me not to tell anyone about the incident,” Al-Aksari said. Nashwan Abu Ali, secretary to the Consulate General of the Republic of Yemen in Mumbai, said: “We lodged a complaint with the Aurangabad police commissioner over email after the Yemeni student brought the matter to the notice of consulate general Yahya Ghober. We have also sent a letter in this regard.” While condemning the incident, Ali said the consulate general’s office will follow up on the matter. The complaint, a copy of which is with TOI, has called for immediate action against the policemen accused of assault.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/cops-accused-of-slapping-yemeni-student-taking-rs-10000-to-release-him/articleshow/75101395.cms||Mohammed Akhef
April 12, 2020||Allahabad||In fight against corona, humanity pips religion||Prayagraj: As the lockdown puts many out of work and pushes them towards penury amid the Covid-19 pandemic, several Prayagraj residents are stepping out of their homes to ensure that the homeless do not go hungry. For these Good Samaritans, religion and caste do not factor in when it comes to helping those in need, which goes in tandem with Ganga-Jamuni tehzeeb the city is famous for. Dariyabad resident Zishan Mahendi works in a cooperative bank in Mumbai and had come home in March. However, he couldn’t go back once the lockdown was announced. He said he took the circumstances as a sign from the Almighty and started reaching out to the poor and supplying them with meals. “I realised that it wasn’t just us who were going through a difficult time. My friends and I found out about localities where residents were not getting food and started supplying them with daily meals. It doesn’t matter to us if they are a Hindu or Muslim,” said the Allahabad University (AU) alumnus. Former president of AU Students’ Union Richa Singh has also been pitching in with efforts to provide food to the poor and homeless during the lockdown. She has been visiting several Muslim-dominated localities under the Prayagraj West assembly constituency. “Although there are many residents who are helping the poor, but those living on the outskirts of city get little help. If anyone discriminates on the basis of religion or caste in such testing times, it’s a shame,” said Singh. Singh is currently supplying meals and foodgrains to over 300 families in the city. Former AUSU vice-president Adil Hamza’s efforts are focussed on the poor students living in city. “I manage to distribute around 200 packets of foodgrains and vegetables in slums. I have never thought of religion while helping out someone,” said Hamza.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/allahabad/in-fight-against-corona-humanity-pips-religion/articleshow/75102394.cms||---
April 12, 2020||Allahabad||Lockdown breach: Over 1L vehicles seized, 17k fined||Prayagraj: Police issued 17,968 challans and seized 1,15,875 vehicles while penalising those found violating guidelines issued during the lockdown, which reached its 18th day on Friday, enforced to contain the spread of novel coronavirus. “Ever since the lockdown was announced, we are keeping a strict vigil on commuters violating rules and have put up 185 barricades across the district to restrict traffic movement. We seized 300 vehicles till Friday and realised Rs 1,62,600 in fine from violators,” said SSP (Prayagraj) Satyarth Aniruddha Pankaj. The SSP also said that since March 24 247 cases have been registered against 1,031 individuals, while 372 arrests were made under section 188 of the IPC during lockdown. “Another five cases were registered against five individuals and one person was arrested under Essential Commodities Act.” Apart from this, the traffic department too has been strict against the violators. Records show that between March 23 and April 9, the traffic police issued 7,738 e-challans to violators. This is besides hundreds let off with warnings. Circle officer (traffic) Ratnesh Singh, “Our department acted only against people who were found roaming on the streets in vehicles with no valid reason. Vehicles which were part of essential traffic like ambulances were issued passes for free movement. We are also allowing patients and their attendants to commute to hospitals. However, there are still many residents who refuse to follow the lockdown rules and play with not only with their lives, but that of their fellow citizens as well.” The CO also added that those found roaming without valid a valid reason or without wearing helmets on two-wheelers or parking vehicles and disappearing for hours were fined too. These challans by traffic police are besides hundreds of challans, seizure of vehicles and dozens of arrests made by civil police for violations of the lockdown and Epidemic Act in the district.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/allahabad/lockdown-breach-over-1l-vehicles-seized-17k-fined/articleshow/75102414.cms||---
April 12, 2020||Pune||Pune: IMD forecast hints at light showers on Saturday||PUNE: Parts of Kothrud and the Deccan area in the city experienced thundery activity with very light but an intense spell of rain for a short span of time around 9pm on Saturday. The Met department forecast earlier in the day predicted very light to light rain during the next couple of days with thundery activity in Pune, Solapur, Kolhapur, Sangli, Satara and other districts in south Maharashtra, including south Madhya Maharashtra and south Konkan. Anupam Kashyapi, head of weather, IMD, Pune, told TOI, “We only expect very light to light rain and thundery activity in parts of Maharashtra during the next couple of days. We had expected marginally more rainfall activity than what may ensue, but the volume of moisture incursion has been less.” He said, “Cumulonimbus cloud development had begun in Pune and its surrounding areas by Saturday evening. These clouds began developing in the eastern side of Pune, as one moved towards Lonavala. Cumulonimbus clouds are associated with thunder storms, lightning and intense spells of rain.” Kashyapi said, “We expect light rain associated with thundery activity, especially in isolated parts of south Madhya Maharashtra, south Konkan, all of Marathwada and Vidarbha.” He said the volume of moisture incursion over in and around Pune had been less mainly because the city’s day temperature had not gone up that high off late. On Saturday, the maximum temperature in Shivajinagar and Lohegaon was 38.4 degree Celsius. The highest temperature in Pashan was 38.8 degree Celsius.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/imd-forecast-hints-at-light-showers-today/articleshow/75102516.cms||---
April 12, 2020||Goa||Risk forgotten, surveyors mingle at training venues||PANAJI: Despite facing flak, social distancing was thrown to the wind yet again at some training sessions for the community survey, ironically, being held to stop the spread of Covid-19. For instance, more than 100 government employees huddled together in groups for the Panaji survey at a hall at the department of art and culture , even as some waited outside the hall to be let inside for the session. Some were even seen interacting in close proximity. Inside the air-conditioned hall, social distancing was maintained and training imparted to the government employees. But outside, the scene was chaotic and devoid of any proper management. After forming the teams of government employees, on Saturday night, some of them were informed that there would be three more members added to their teams and that they would have to report for yet another training session on Sunday morning. The teams have been provided with leaflets on Covid-19, which members have been instructed to distribute as they go door to door for the survey. “Forget taking the leaflets from our hands, nobody will want to touch them. We have not been given gloves,” one booth level officer said. The training sessions held between 10am to 3pm, sometimes stretching to 4pm, have continued with little planning, while neither food nor water was provided to any of the attendees. Employees from far-flung places posted in other areas for the survey questioned authorities on transport arrangements. They were instructed on how to use the app where they will have to enter the name of the head of the household or whoever comes to the door, their mobile number, ages of all other family members, report Covid-19 related symptoms, high blood pressure, heart and kidney-related ailments, and travel history. The surveyors in Panaji have been told to begin on Monday and carry their own food and water, and conduct the survey between 8am to 8pm. They have been asked keep their phone GPS on to ensure they are carrying out the survey.  “What will happen if they hide their travel history? Nobody knows. The government could have found this out without sending us door-to-door. We are risking our lives,” one surveyor said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/risk-forgotten-surveyors-mingle-at-training-venues/articleshow/75102518.cms||Lisa Monteiro
April 12, 2020||Goa||Video calls to replace get together this Easter||PANAJI: Fish curry rice and video conferencing will replace sorpotel, sannas and family get togethers this Easter, as Catholics in the state are planning a quiet celebration amid the lockdown. For the Rodrigues family in Tiracol, this will be the first Easter lunch without meat at the table. In normal years, the family celebrates the Resurrecrion of Jesus with the same enthusiasm as his birth — with sorpotel, sannas, chicken biryani and other Goan delicacies on the menu. “It will just be rice curry and fried recheado fish. We have no meats at home not even chicken,” said Michael Rodrigues. “There is no chicken available in Keri. It usually comes in from Shiroda, in Maharashtra, but we don’t want to take the risk as many people working in Mumbai have returned to their villages in Maharashtra and could be carrying the virus.” “We are happy to make do with whatever we have as we know what’s happening in other countries, especially Europe. We appreciate PM Narendra Modi’s lockdown decision, which has kept us safe. St Francis Xavier is also controlling the spread of coronavirus here, despite Goa being a tourist state,” Rodrigues said. He will sit together with his family and watch the Easter mass livestreamed from the Archbishop’s house. “Our parish priest has forwarded us the link on Whatsapp,” he said. Down south in Carmona, the Dias family is busy baking their own bread for their Easter breakfast — chourico pao. Bread is available in the village, but they prefer not taking the risk and exposing themselves to coronavirus. “It could be dangerous. We can’t say. Why live with fear when we can make our own bread,” Senia Dias said. Despite the lockdown the family is “not going to spare any celebrations”. “Instead of multiple dishes, we will just have roast chicken,” she said. The family will break their Lenten fast with alcohol, but nothing chilled, not even cold drinks, she said. They have also kept cold desserts out of their lunch menu to keep flu and the dreaded virus at bay. “A little sacrifice will go a long way. Why invite trouble,” Senia said. In Margao, Nita Noronha e Costa will use the occasion to bring her infirm in-laws to the dining table for a special meal as a family. She then hopes to connect with her siblings, their children and grand children and nieces in Vasco, Sangolda and Hyderabad via video conferencing. “We’ve not tried it together as a family. This will be the first time,” said Nita, who is “over the moon” at having her husband and son at home during the lockdown. In Porvorim, Paul Siqueira will continue with his special Bible classes for his three girls, which he began during the lockdown. “We will first hear mass together and then have our Bible class. I can’t stop it just because it’s Easter Sunday as the girls are very enthusiastic about it. They come with their own Bibles and take notes,” said Paul, who in turn makes the classes interesting with maps of Israel. Proprietor of a pilgrimage tour company who has visited Israel 72 times, he knows it like the back of his hand and imparts not only spiritual knowledge during his classes, but intersperses them with history and geography of the place. The family has got used to eating simple food during the lockdown and is pleased to break their Lenten fast and abstinence with roast chicken for Easter. Meanwhile, Donald Fernandes who started Street Providence to provide food and shelter for the hungry and homeless will be spending his Easter fine tuning his plans to reach out to 10,000 needy with rations. “There are people in remote villages who have their own onions and potatoes and only want rice and atta. Rations are yet to reach them. We will distribute 1,000 kg of rice and atta in Salcete on Tuesday,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/video-calls-to-replace-get-together-this-easter/articleshow/75102519.cms||Lisa Monteiro
April 12, 2020||Trichy||Covid-19 count in central region touches 114||Trichy: The number of Covid-19 cases in the central region reached 114 as 15 patients including three children testing positive in Trichy and Nagappattinam on Saturday. Trichy district has recorded three more cases taking the count to 39. The patients include two elderly women and a man who are close contacts of the family members of Covid-19 positive patients being treated at the Mahatma Gandhi Memorial (MGM) government hospital. One of the women was down with visual problems while another has issues with mobility, said hospital sources. The new patients were among the 165 family members and relatives of the 36 people who attended an event in Delhi. Their swab samples have been sent for testing on Thursday, Trichy district administration confirmed that 103 of them turned negative, but they will be kept in home quarantine for 28 days. The results of 59 were yet to be ready. The containment plan in 20 places in the district continues with the localities being cordoned. The district administration has kept 69 Tabligi Jamaat delegates quarantined at the Jamal Mohammed College in Trichy. Collector S Sivarasu reiterated that all the quarantined people can be discharged only after the 28 days of quarantine either at home or at institutions. Out of 3,045 people under home quarantine, 2,729 people completed 28 days of quarantine in the district. In Nagappattinam, 12 more positive cases were reported including three children, six women and three men, taking the tally in the district to 24. All of them are from the same family and are being treated at the government medical college hospital in Tiruvarur. Seven places in Nagappattinam town and other areas including Nagore, Thittacheri, Sirkazhi, Poravacheri and Thirukalacheri have been brought under the containment plan as the patients hailed from the areas. A team of 33 doctors, 36 nurses, 700 anganwadi employees and 102 police personnel have been making door to door health check of residents in Nagappattinam. Karur, Pudukottai, Ariyalur, Perambalur, Thanjavur and Tiruvarur have not reported any new cases. (With inputs from D Vincent Arockiaraj)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/covid-19-count-in-central-region-touches-114/articleshow/75102515.cms||---
April 12, 2020||Thiruvananthapuram||Tribal youths begin farming to overcome financial crisis||Thiruvananthapuram: Stricken by poverty during the lockdown, tribal youths from Kottoor have started farming in the forest region. Minister for forest K Raju visited the youths from Kottoor reserve forest in Agasthyavanam Biological Park on Saturday. Congratulating the youths, Raju provided seeds and financial assistance and also distributed vegetable kits among tribal families at Agasthyavanam Biological Park, Neyyar, Peppara and Paruthipally. Due the financial crisis during Covid-19, the youths decided to revive their traditional way of agriculture to earn a living with the support from the forest department. The forest department has its extended support by procuring the forest produce under the Vanika Jaiva store. The forest produce will be sold at commercial markets. The youths expect good revenue from the sale of forest produce. Farming was started at Kaithode and Mangadu settlement area at Kottoor. The youths formed two self-help groups namely Sufala and Sujala for farming. MLA K S Sabarinathan, Kottoor panchayat president Manikandan, vice president Jisha Krishnan, Thiruvananthapuram division forest officer Pradeep Kumar, wildlife warden J R Ani, assistant wildlife warden Satheeshan attend the function. The programme was conducted in association with Hands Foundation, QBurst Technopark and Prakruthi trekking group. TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/thiruvananthapuram/tribal-youths-begin-farming-to-overcome-financial-crisis/articleshow/75100727.cms||---
April 12, 2020||Pune||Four hurt in fire at Balewadi hotel||PUNE: Four persons were injured after a fire broke out on a hotel premises at Dasara Chowk in Balewadi around 8pm on Saturday. The fire tenders of the Pune Metropolitan Region Development Authority (PMRDA) and Pune city fire brigade rushed to the spot soon after receiving the information. “Multiple cylinder blasts occurred at the site. The hotel was locked due to the lockdown. It is not known why the four persons had gathered there,” a fire brigade official said. In a similar incident, an explosion at an LPG cylinder refilling shop led to a major fire in Balewadi late on Friday night, damaging three neighbouring shops. No one was injured in the incident. “There was a transformer behind the shops. We doused the fire before it could reach up to the transformer,” fire officer Gajanan Pathrudkar told TOI. He said the fire broke out around 10pm. “Our three fire tenders reached the spot and doused the fire in 10 minutes,” Pathrudkar said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/4-hurt-in-fire-at-balewadi-hotel/articleshow/75102521.cms||---
April 12, 2020||Mangaluru||Farm activities give fillip to OMCs in time of lockdown||Mangaluru: A national drop in consumption of petrol by 15.5% and over 24% for high-speed diesel (HSD), during March, due to the lockdown, has reflected in Karnataka as well. The five sales regions of Bengaluru, Belagavi, Kalaburagi, Mangaluru and Mysuru, under oil marketing companies BPCL, HPCL and IOCL, have registered 9.6% drop in sales of petrol and 22.8% drop in sale of diesel, respectively. This drop in consumption has been more perceptible in urban pockets in the state, according to Karnataka State Federation of Petroleum Dealers (KSFPD). However, they have got some relief, as sales in rural areas have risen slightly, on the back of robust activity in the agriculture sector in the state. There is a steady sales pattern in rural pockets, especially for diesel, across Karnataka, said a KSFPD office-bearer. Confirming this summation, Rajendra Kumar Kataria, secretary, agriculture and horticulture, said rabi harvesting is going on in many places across the state. The department has been proactive in getting combined harvesters from neighbouring states, and small harvesters for use by farmers in Karnataka. “Since the movement of these vital agricultural implements is exempted under various government orders, there has been an increase in agriculture activities,” he said. Early sowing of kharif crops is on in many of the traditional paddy growing areas of Old Mysore region. “The green war room set up in my office is constantly monitoring the supply of seeds and fertilisers, of which there is adequate stock, and is available for farmers,” said Kataria. “Agricultural activities will pick up in April and continue in May. All 162 agriculture marketing units have been geared up for the same,” he said. There is also a separate supply chain management cell in the agriculture department that follows up with retailers and manufacturers, to ensure food production goes on uninterrupted, he said. With various parts of the state receiving pre-monsoon showers over the last few days, harvesting and sowing activities have truly picked up, Kataria said, thanking the petroleum dealers for fuelling this essential service that will help feed people across the state.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mangaluru/farm-activities-give-fillip-to-omcs-in-time-of-lockdown/articleshow/75099978.cms||Jaideep Shenoy
April 12, 2020||Vadodara||30-year-old man tests positive in Chhota Udepur||Vadodara: Chhota Udepur registered its third coronavirus case after a 30-year-old man from Bodeli tested positive on Saturday. Two earlier cases were also reported from Bodeli. According to the district administration, the patient had reported at the flu OPD as he was suffering from cough and cold. He was asked to get himself admitted and his samples were collected for testing. “We are trying to establish epidemiological connection of the new patient as he is neither a relative of the earlier two patients nor their immediate neighbour,” said district collector Sujal Mayatra. He added that the administration is now trying to get details of the patient’s travel history and also whom he had met. The patient lives 50 feet away from where the red zone limit ends in Bodeli. The new patient will undergo treatment at the specially created isolation ward in Chhota Udepur itself. The earlier cases were of a 60-year-old man and his two-year-old granddaughter. The man had travelled to Delhi to attend Tablighi Jamaat congregation last month where he contracted the virus. The duo is undergoing treatment at GMERS Medical College and Hospital in Vadodara.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/30-year-old-man-tests-positive-in-chhota-udepur/articleshow/75101672.cms||---
April 12, 2020||Ahmedabad||Parcel train between Rajkot, Coimbatore||Ahmedabad: The Western Railway (WR) has decided to run one more pair of special parcel train between Rajkot and Coimbatore. The WR has so far run 11 special timetabled parcel express trains during the lockdown period to various parts of the country.The train will depart from Rajkot on April 13 at 5.30 pm and reach Coimbatore on April 15 at 12.30 am. The train will cover 3,465 km. On its return journey, the train will leave Coimbatore on April 16 at 4.30 am and reach Rajkot the next day at 11.55 pm.The train will halt at Ahmedabad, Vadodara, Bharuch, Surat, Vasai Road, Panvel, Pune, Daund, Secunderabad, Dharamavaram, Krishnarajpuram and Erode Junction in both directions. The train will also have an additional halt at Surendranagar and Salem stations. On Saturday, three special parcel trains left from various stations of the WR — from Bandra Terminus to Ludhiana via Ahmedabad, from Dadar to Bhuj and from Okha to Bandra Terminus.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/parcel-train-between-rajkot-coimbatore/articleshow/75102003.cms||---
April 12, 2020||Trichy||Children of stranded guest workers get new clothes||Indian Red Cross society in Tiruvarur distributed new clothes to 51 children of 21 families, all natives of Madhya Pradesh, who are stranded in Mannargudi following the lockdown since March 24. They arrived here a few months ago to sell sickle, knife, and other instruments for domestic use at various villages in and around Mannargudi.  The organisation distributed new clothes to around 51 children. Industrialist Pradap Sant, Sunil Lunkat, Aravindan, correspondent of Shanmuga higher secondary school Senthilkumar arranged for the donation . tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/children-of-stranded-guest-workers-get-new-clothes/articleshow/75102522.cms||---
April 12, 2020||Hyderabad||‘Parkinson’s patients must avoid stress’||Hyderabad: On the occasion of World Parkinson’s Day on Saturday, experts said that Parkinson’s patients must avoid stress and establish daily routines in order to deal better with the ongoing crisis. Speaking about precautions that such patients need to take, Dr M K Singh, senior consultant neurologist, Continental Hospitals, said, “Stress is not good for people with Parkinson’s disease, and to minimize stress in these difficult times, they must establish daily routines, exercise at home and stay connected with family and friends online or on the phone, and enjoy a good book or a fun show on television,” he said, adding that elderly patients with pre-existing Parkinson’s disease can get vaccinated against pneumonia as a preventive measure. Meanwhile, Dr Rupam, HOD, Neurology, NIMS, conducted a three-hour webinar on Saturday with experts from across the country to deliberate on issues concerning Parkinson's disease.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/parkinsons-patients-must-avoid-stress/articleshow/75102069.cms||---
April 12, 2020||Goa||‘3 pvt firms fail to paysalaries’||Panaji: Despite the state government directing private sector firms to pay employees the due wages during the lockdown period, at least three firms have not paid salaries to their employees, said the All India Trade Union Congress (AITUC) here on Saturday. AITUC general secretary Suhaas Naik said among the units that did not release payments, BSNL also failed to pay its contract workers who have been outsourced. “BSNL’s contractor has failed to pay its 250 workers for the last four to five months,” said Naik. He also said that a Cuncolim-based power guzzler has not paid its 84 workers and an export-oriented engineering company in Kundaim has also not paid its 35 workers. With the entire country in lockdown, the Union ministry of commerce asked all Indian companies to release payments to employees and small firms on time, even as the private sector began to contemplate lay-offs. Just a few days earlier, Goa Chamber of Commerce and Industry (GCCI) met with chief minister Pramod Sawant and informed him that Goa’s small and micro enterprises were unable to pay wages to all employees since production and revenue has come to a standstill. “Many workers working in different establishments have not been paid salaries in spite of the government assurance. Complaints have been filed with the labour commissioner and still no action has been taken,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/3-pvt-firms-fail-to-paysalaries/articleshow/75102524.cms||---
April 12, 2020||Mysuru||Two villages in Mysuru district entirely sealed following fresh cases||MYSURU: The Covid-19 curve in Mysuru district showing no signs of flattening, the authorities have decided to tighten restrictions in a few places, where the number of infections reported have been rather high. Hebya village in Nanjangud, five residents of which have tested positive, and Someshwarapura in Mysuru taluk, will be under a complete lockdown, officials in the district administration said. Superintendent of police CB Ryshyanth, explaining the restrictions, said, “The residents will have to confine themselves completely to home. Since multiple cases have been reported in these villages, we will be keeping all their primary contacts in quarantine as a precautionary measure.” Mysuru deputy commissioner Abhiram G Sankar said five individuals who tested positive on Saturday were roommates of an employee of the Nanjangud pharmaceutical firm, and who also tested positive for Covid-19. “These five individuals were in quarantine for more than a week, and the results of the medical tests confirmed that they were infected, and they have now been shifted to the designated Covid-19 hospital,” Sankar said. Till date, 47 individuals have tested positive for Covid-19 across Mysuru district. Of these, 36 are either employees of Jubilant Generics, the Nanjangud pharmaceutical firm or their primary or secondary contacts. Sankar said that, two patients had been discharged, following which the active cases in Mysuru had slid to 45. Nanjangud tahsildar KM Mahesh Kumar told STOI that, of the five fresh cases reported in the taluk, four were members of one family. “We have decided to leave nothing to chance and seal the entire village. Also, all entry and exit points to Nanjangud town have been shut,” he said. DC Abhiram Sankar confirmed that the state government had supplied Mysuru district administration with additional test kits to ensure that all primary and secondary contacts of employees of Jubilant Generics. “Nearly 1,200 have either directly or indirectly have come in contact with those employees of the firm who have tested positive for the infection. We have managed to test as many as 350 people already,” Sankar added. Door-to-door survey Sankar, meanwhile, appealed to the public to cooperate fully with the authorities who would conduct the door-to-door survey. “I request the public to provide an accurate report about their health, and that of their family members. There have been reports of residents in Meena Bazaar turning away personnel, and refusing to divulge information about their health. Strict action will be initiated against those preventing government authorities from discharging their duties. So far, we have examined 41,757 people in the containment zones,” the DC said, seeking to assure the people that the door-to-door survey was only a precautionary measure. Open clinics, private doctors told Following the outbreak of Covid-19 in Mysuru district, most private medical practitioners have downed their shutters, much to the chagrin of the public. Taking cognisance of their plight, Mysuru deputy commissioner Abhiram Sankar on Saturday said, “Covid-19 infection has been reported only in Mysuru city and Nanjangud, but doctors in all taluks have shut their clinics. I appeal to them to re-open their clinics and cooperate with the public, else the district administration will be left with no option but to act tough,” said Sankar. “Many spurious organisations were seeking donations under the garb of collecting them for Covid-19 relief funds and there have been complaints of the money thus collected being misused. Those found guilty of such an offence will be punished,” he warned.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mysuru/two-villages-in-mysuru-district-entirely-sealed-following-fresh-cases/articleshow/75100733.cms||---
April 12, 2020||Pune||‘Prudent’ lockdown extension leaves many jittery||Pune: The state government’s decision to extend the lockdown till at least April 30 has put private firm employees as well as students in a fix, who were eagerly looking forward to resume their routine from Wednesday. “The worry is that I am not able to work from home as my work requires close coordination and team work. The client is becoming a little jittery now. We are worried about losing the client,” said Rohit Pawar, a manager in a software firm. A businessman from the city, Yash Jalan, said the consequences of an extension were going to be bad. "There has been no revenue generation for almost a month now but the salaries have to go out on time and so do other bills. Difficult times lie ahead and I just hope that people follow all rules and stay indoors so that we don’t have to go through another extension. A prolonged extension will have extreme repercussions on businesses and the economy as a whole," he said. FTII students Rajarshi Majumdar said the extension would lead 2017 and 2019 batch into a studio floor clash scenario, which could lead to further delay of more than three months into course completion for one of the batches. "The 2018 batch was about to start their documentary semester, which will be delayed by one month. And admission process can be delayed up to 1-2 months or more," she said. Durgesh Mangeshkar of IITian's Prashikshan Kendra said the extension meant that those in the education sector needed to further continue to engage students via online lectures and tests. "The admission cycle for the next batch gets either prolonged or distorted due to this extension, which has its own financial ramifications on coaching institutes. The learning curve for students due to online classes is much slower than that in actual classroom and this may affect their preparation for competitive exams," she said. A section of people felt that the extension was the need of the hour. "Considering the rising positive cases every day, it was a prudent decision to extend the lockdown. Yes, it will have an adverse impact on economy, but controlling the pandemic should be the top priority now," said Colonel Vinay Dalvi (retired). Suman Goyal, a senior citizen, said, "It is a good move as it will prevent the spread of the contagion. But there needs to be provisions of food/grocery made for senior citizens or specially challenged people staying alone. Also, the daily wage earners need to be protected by the government. The marginalised need to be identified and adequate supply must be given to them."||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/prudent-lockdown-extension-leaves-many-jittery/articleshow/75102528.cms||---
April 12, 2020||Rajkot||Driver, 7 others booked for ferrying people||Rajkot: A driver, who was transporting seven persons, including three women in his ambulance from Metoda GIDC in Rajkot to Una in Gir Somnath district was arrested in Rajkot on Saturday morning. Also arrested were the passengers in the ambulance. Police said the accused, identified as Akshay Shah (36), was booked for alleged violation of the lockdown order. Along with Shah, those arrested were identified as Chetan Parmar (19), Dharmishta Parmar (21), Dilu Parmar (45), Malu Parmar (42), Paresh Leva (26), Shailesh Leva (18) and Varsha Leva (21). “All the passengers are labourers who wanted to go to their native Una. They had offered Rs 10,000 to Shah to transport them to Una. While Shah was taking them in an ambulance, he was stopped at the check post at Patidar Chowk,” said J V Dhola, inspector with Rajkot taluka police station.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/driver-7-others-booked-for-ferrying-people/articleshow/75102078.cms||---
April 12, 2020||Hyderabad||Nalgonda farmers gift vegetables to 200 cops||HYDERABAD: Farmers in Nalgonda showed their gratitude to the police working during lockdown by providing them vegetables and fruits from their fields. Nearly 200 policemen were handed over the farm produce on Saturday. This happened in Velugupalli village where the local farmers took the help of rural sub-inspector Rajasekhar Reddy to distribute what they had cultivated in their farms. The farmers, Ram Reddy, Jaan Reddy, Ravindar Reddy, Peddireddy Ramreddy and Julakanti Venkat Reddy, brought their farm produce and distributed it to the policemen of One Town police station, Two Town police station, rural police station and women’s police station. Further, the police informed the public that the lockdown would be enforced more strictly as many people were venturing out without a valid reason and cases would be booked against people who do not wear masks when they go out.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/farmers-gift-veggies-to-200-cops/articleshow/75102087.cms||Ch Sushil Rao
April 12, 2020||Goa||CM Pramod Sawant endorses consensus, says Goa’s borders must remain shut||PANAJI: Chief minister Pramod Sawant on Saturday said that the state government has suggested to Prime Minister Narendra Modi that the total lockdown in the state be continued till April 30 and that borders too remain closed. However, government offices will start functioning in the state from Monday, he said. “We suggested that the lockdown continue till April 30. We have also suggested that flights and railways services should not resume, and the state’s borders should be kept closed,” Sawant said. It was the state’s recommendation that only interstate transport of essential commodities and goods be allowed, he said. Sawant said that Modi will address the nation within two days and announce the national guidelines for the lockdown. He said that all chief ministers urged the PM to come out with one central guideline to avoid any confusion in the fight against Covid-19. The national guidelines may have some relaxations to carry out economic activities, he said. “We have to follow the guidelines strictly as they are in the interest of the health of the people of the state,” Sawant said. “I didn’t get an opportunity to speak to the Prime Minister via video conference, but the state has sent its suggestions in writing,” the chief minister told reporters. The state has been able to control the spread of Covid-19 due to cooperation from the public, medical staff and others, Sawant said. The chief minister urged the people of the state to have patience till April-end. He also said that restaurants and public gatherings may not be allowed in state till end of April. He also said that cooperative societies are likely to start after April 14. Sawant said that people should use masks when they step out of their houses. “Other states have started imposing fines if they find a person without mask. If people don’t wear masks then we will also have to take a decision to fine people going around without masks,” he said. The chief minister said that the government will sell masks at a minimum price through its various departments. Speaking about the three-day, house-to-house community survey, Sawant said once the survey is completed, the state will be able to declare Goa as a safe state. On Wednesday, state cabinet ministers had said that the government should urge the central government to continue lockdown till April 30 and thereafter continue to impose Section 144 CrPC.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/cm-endorses-consensus-says-states-borders-must-remain-shut/articleshow/75102526.cms||---
April 12, 2020||Hyderabad||Singareni unions threaten stir over unilateral pay cut||Hyderabad: Five national trade unions — AITUC, INTUC, BMS, CITU and HMS — served a strike notice on Singareni Collieries Company Limited (SCCL) stating that they have decided to go on an indefinite strike from April 15. They are opposed to the SCCL management’s decision to cut one-day salary of all 54,000 miners for Covid-19 relief without consulting the employees and union leaders. “We are ready to contribute to the chief minister’s relief fund (CMRF), but the management has hurt our feelings by neither consulting the employees nor the union leaders before taking the decision to cut the salary,” said INTUC president Janak Prasad. “The intention is not to go on strike but to bring the unilateral decision of SCCL to the notice of the state government. The labour commissioner is likely to hold talks with the union leaders after April 14,” said a union leader. The unions are also against deferment of 50% salary for employees as announced by chief minister K Chandrasekhar Rao. They also demanded a complete shutdown of all underground coal mines under SCCL. However, the SCCL officials said the recognised union in SCCL— Telangana Boggu Ghani Karmika Sangham— has given a written consent for the salary cut. Meanwhile, SCCL employees claimed that the strike notice served by the five unions was an election stunt. “The trade unions are gearing up for elections, which are expected to be held in the next two months,” they said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/singareni-unions-threaten-stir-over-unilateral-pay-cut/articleshow/75102079.cms||Roushan Ali
April 12, 2020||Goa||Strict norms in place as Goa restarts fisheries operations||PANAJI: Social distancing, wearing of gloves and masks, sanitisers for crew and labourers — these are some of the rules mandated by the fisheries department on Saturday to restart fishing activities in the state. The order comes after the Centre’s new guidelines to resume essential services. In Goa, fishing was suspended from April 2 as a precautionary measure against coronavirus. Boat owners have been instructed to inform the health department immediately if any crew members or labourers on board are unwell. Besides these guidelines, the department has also said that auctioning of fish at landing centres/points shall be carried out systematically by marking the area and drawing lines at fixed distances, thus ensuring social distancing between bidders and sellers. To sell fish to the public, owners of fishing vessels, fish farmers, fisheries co-operative societies/association or bulk purchasers must obtain permission from their respective panchayats and municipalities. The department has also said that fish is to be transported in insulated vehicles at designated panchayat and municipalities areas so that there is no regular wholesale and retail market, and social distancing and hygienic conditions can be maintained. Fish which is not consumed is to be sent to processing plants within and outside state directly, in the insulated vehicles. The department is also encouraging the sale of fish to vendors or motorcycle/rickshaw fishmongers for door-to-door delivery of fish to people. Members of the fishing community welcomed the decision. “The first two months of the fishing season were non-productive due to the cyclonic conditions in the Arabian Sea,” said Sebastiao Cardozo, general secretary of the all-Goa purse seine boat owners association. “Due to the ban, we were losing out on another month.” President of the Cutbona boat owners association Savio D’Silva said that there are nearly 40 crew members on each trawler. There are around 300 boats anchored at the jetty, with approximately 4,000 crew members living off rations provided by boat owners.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/strict-norms-in-place-as-state-restarts-fisheries-operations/articleshow/75102527.cms||---
April 12, 2020||Trichy||Trichy rly div to recruit 216 paramedical, medical staff||Trichy: The Trichy railway division has invited application from eligible medical and paramedical personnel for the railway headquarters hospital in Ponmalai in Trichy to meet the demand following the outbreak of Coivd-19. A three-day online interview has been scheduled on April 16 to select 216 candidates. A total of 36 medical practitioners including anaesthetists, general medicine and chest physicians are to be hired by the railway department on a contractual basis for a period of three months. Also, 36 nurses and 12 each pharmacists, lab assistants and radiographers are to be roped in. Hospital attendants and housekeeping assistants are also to be appointed. All concerned medical officers have been instructed to upgrade the hospitals to handle Covid-19 patients with all necessary equipment as suggested by NITI Aayog and they should also arrange for intensive training to medical personnel. All the chief medical officers are instructed to recruit the applicants on a full contract basis in consultation with the respective divisional railway managers in accordance with the norms. As the recruited medical practitioners could not be permitted to go to their homes during their duty period in view of the high-infectivity of Covid-19, authorities from commercial departments have been asked to ensure food and other necessities through IRCTC. Meanwhile, the Southern Railway has kept 1,236 beds ready in 11 railway hospitals. Of these, 1,050 are in Tamil Nadu alone. These include the headquarters hospital in Perambur, which has a total of 505 beds, the railway hospital in Integrated Coach Factory, Chennai - 101 beds and the Ponmalai hospital, Trichy - 197 beds.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/trichy-rly-div-to-recruit-216-paramedical-medical-staff/articleshow/75102525.cms||---
April 12, 2020||Trichy||Kiosk to collect swab samples set up at MGMGH||Trichy: A walk-in kiosk to take swab samples has been set up at the Mahatma Gandhi Memorial (MGM) government hospital to avoid doctors and health workers coming in direct contact with patients, on Saturday. A few days ago, a similar kiosk was installed at the Stanley medical college hospital in Chennai. Sponsored by the Musiri Institute of Technology (MIT) in Chennai, the kiosk has been installed in the psychiatry block. With this facility, the swab from the throat and nose can be taken by health workers while staying inside the glass shielded kiosk by using the gloves fitted on the glass. The gloves will be sanitized after every use. MGM medical superintendent Dr R Yeganathan said the kiosk is the need of the hour to ensure protection of health workers including doctors tasked with treating Covid-19 patients. “Patients tend to sneeze when a doctor takes swab from the throat and nose. The droplets would mostly land on those close to them at the time. While treating patients, the doctors and others should also take protective measures. This kiosk will be of great use,” Yeganathan told TOI. The doctors also said that the kiosk can be used without personal protective equipment (PPE). It may be noted that the hospital administration had already conducted a trial run of of robots made by a Trichy based organisation to reduce the contact of the doctors and nurses with Covid-19 positive patients in the isolation ward.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/kiosk-to-collect-swab-samples-set-up-at-mgmgh/articleshow/75102537.cms||---
April 12, 2020||Hyderabad||Defer loan servicing, spike FRBM limit, KCR urges PM||HYDERABAD: Continuing his extend lockdown mantra, Telangana chief minister K Chandrasekhar Rao has urged Prime Minister Narendra Modi to continue the measure for two more weeks. The 21-day lockdown will end on April 14. “The present lockdown has helped in containing Covid-19. There is no other better solution than this (lockdown),” KCR told the PM during the video conference the latter had with all CMs on Saturday. He also requested the PM to defer repayment of interest on loans availed by states for at least six months. Since the state government was losing revenue, KCR sought enhancement of the fiscal responsibility and budget management (FRBM) limit from 3% to 5%. In 1918 due to the Spanish Flu, there was an economic crisis all over the world. In 2008 too, there was an economic recession all over the globe, KCR stated. “Due to proper measures, we should get over it. Even now, we are facing financial problems. To counter this, we need a strategic economic policy. RBI should implement quantitative easing policy. This is called helicopter money. This will facilitate the states and financial institutions to accrue funds. We can come out of the financial crisis. The Centre should release 5% of funds from GDP through quantitative easing policy,” he said. The CM suggested that a task force be constituted under the chairmanship of the PM to prepare an action plan on how to help farmers and a policy be implemented on the economic situation. “Agriculture yield across the country is to the tune of several crore tonnes. Our primary responsibility is to procure it. There is no place where we can store the procured food grains. By giving rice required for people for the next three months, FCI godowns in the country can be emptied. The newly procured food grains can be stored in these godowns,” the CM said. To prevent crowding of farmers at one place, the Telangana government has set up 6,849 procurement centres at village level and food grains were being procured. “For procurement of paddy alone, the government gave Rs 25,000 crore bank guarantee. We are procuring paddy from the villages and depositing money in the accounts of farmers directly. The paddy thus procured is pounded into rice and supplied to FCI. To get money from FCI, it takes four to five months. Till such time, the Centre should take measures so that banks will not exert any pressure for payment of dues,” KCR said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/defer-loan-servicing-spike-frbm-limit-kcr-urges-pm/articleshow/75102536.cms||Koride Mahesh
April 12, 2020||Trichy||UP man tests negative, body buried in Trichy||The body of the 45-year-old man from Uttar Pradesh, who was working as a coolie in Perambalur district, was buried here on Saturday after the results of his swab showed negative for Covid-19. The man had died at Mahatma Gandhi memorial government hospital (MGMGH) soon after his admission late on Wednesday. He was admitted at the severe acute respiratory infection (SARI) ward of the hospital as he was suspected to have had cerebral meningitis. To confirm if he had contracted Covid-19, the hospital administration took swab in the night before keeping his body in the mortuary. Two attendants of the man also accepted the decision. Trichy collector S Sivarasu confirmed that he had tested negative for Covid-19. On confirmation of his result, the hospital allowed them to carry out the funeral according to their religious custom.tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/up-man-tests-negative-body-buried-in-trichy/articleshow/75102529.cms||---
April 12, 2020||Delhi||Delhi: Parents to teach happiness to kids||NEW DELHI: Parents of about eight lakh students of Delhi government schools studying between nursery and Class VIII will now become “teachers.” Implementing “Mission Buniyaad” and “Happiness Curriculum” in their homes during the lockdown will be their major responsibility. Deputy chief minister and education minister Manish Sisodia announced this on Saturday during a videoconference with the teachers and parents. The activities are designed to strengthen the kids’ foundation in learning, Sisodia added. To help the parents successfully implement the two flagship programmes of the government, from Monday onwards, they will be assigned one activity daily with detailed guidelines.Since April 1, the students of junior classes have been receiving their activities through messages. “Due to the lockdown, parents and children have a lot of time together. We now need to think of turning this into a quality time so that students do not get stressed. We need to understand that corona is a reality and so is the lockdown. In it, the role of parents is changing. We will now have to transform home into schools. Parents have to act as teachers and our teachers will guide you all,” said Sisodia while addressing an hourlong“Parenting in the lockdown” session. Sisodia said that the government was working on starting the entrepreneurship curriculum online as well. Director education, Binay Bhushan, and two expert teachers also took part in the session. “To help children learn, books are not required. There are simple activities, which can be done at home,” said Bhavna Sawnani, a mentor teacher. Neeru Puri, also a mentor teacher,” advised the parents that everyone in the family should sit together and practise mindfulness. Bhushan announced that remedial classes will be held after the schools open.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/parents-to-teach-happiness-to-kids/articleshow/75102534.cms||Shradha Chettri
April 12, 2020||Goa||‘Canoes are small; order is pro-trawlers’||PANAJI: Traditional fishermen cannot practice social distancing since the canoes are much smaller compared to trawlers and fishing boats, said members of the Goenchea Raponkarancho Ekvott (GRE) on Saturday. Their reaction came hours after t he fisheries department issued guidelines to fishermen to restart fishing activities. “The order seems to favour boat owners since they can afford to maintain social distance on the vessel,” GRE general secretary and vice chairperson of the National Fishworkers’ Forum (NFF), Olencio Simoes said. “It is very important to deploy health workers at jetties and fishing shores to test fishermen for Covid-19,” he said. GRE also asked the fisheries department to keep strict vigilance on trawlers indulging in LED fishing, bull or pair trawling and using high-powered china engines.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/canoes-are-small-order-is-pro-trawlers/articleshow/75102530.cms||---
April 12, 2020||Goa||Goa: Four more Covid-19 patients recover, test negative||PANAJI: Health minister Vishwajit Rane on Saturday stated that four patients have recovered, bringing down the number of known Covid-19 patients in the state to two. “We are happy to inform that samples of four patients were tested again as per protocol, and reported negative,” Rane said in a statement. The health minister’s statement came after the medical bulletin, which didn’t specify that four had recovered. Of seven Covid-19 cases detected in Goa, one was declared cured earlier this week and since then, the patient has been under monitored quarantine of 14 days. “We are following all the guidelines of Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) and as per procedure, conducted all the necessary tests,” he said. On Saturday, out of 25 samples pending for testing, 15 had tested negative and 10 reports were awaited. 120 persons were placed under home quarantine and seven suspects were being treated in the isolation ward of Goa Medical College (GMC) and hospital, Bambolim. The number of persons in facility quarantine has gone down to 9, said a media bulletin from the directorate of health services (DHS).||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/four-more-covid-19-patients-recover-test-ive/articleshow/75102532.cms||---
April 12, 2020||Pune||Sinhagad Road residents withdraw cash in their housing societies||PUNE: Some residents from Sinhagad Road were able to withdraw cash from their bank accounts without stepping out of their housing societies on Saturday. A local NGO Apulki Group Pune, had requested officials of the Anandnagar post office to make the facility available for residents. Sameer Rupade, the coordinator of Apulki Group, said the motive behind the arrangement was to ensure that people did not step out unnecessarily. “Many would crowd at banks or ATMs to withdraw cash. So, we tied up with the post office to prevent crowding and to maintain social distancing. Some post officials visited around eight to 10 societies on Sinhagad Road, each of which had over 450 flats,” he said. Rupade said cash was available to all bank account holders. “Residents had been told to bring their Aadhaar card when the post officials came to the society. Biometrics of the person were taken and an OTP was sent to his/her cellphone number for confirmation before handing over cash. We had capped the withdrawal amount at Rs5,000 as there were no other cash expenses except groceries and vegetables so this amount would suffice,” he said, adding that the residents withdrew over Rs1 lakh collectively. A Sinhagad Road resident who availed the facility said, “The post office officials had all the necessary equipment including sanitizers as biometrics were being taken. The equipment was set up in the club house. Many residents had stepped out to withdraw cash and proper social distancing was maintained. Lines had been drawn on the ground at a distance of 3-feet and residents were told to wait behind them.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/sinhagad-road-residents-withdraw-cash-in-their-housing-societies/articleshow/75102531.cms||Rujuta Parekh
April 12, 2020||Mysuru||Mysuru cops use drones to detect crowds, two cases booked||MYSURU: Taking a leaf out of the book of the law enforcement agencies in the West, Mysuru city police decided to deploy quadcopters -- drones -- equipped with cameras to detect crowds, and what is more, managed to book two cases for violation of lockdown rules using footage from the drone. The cases have been booked against a shopowner, and youngsters who were hanging around without a valid reason on Mahadevapura Road in Mysuru. The cases have been filed against the individuals under sections of the Indian Penal Code pertaining to endangering the life of public, spreading infections diseases and disobedience of an order promulgated by a public servant. Around 14 youngsters had reportedly clustered around a retail outlet, and Udayagiri police managed to book cases against them with the use of evidence collecting using drones.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mysuru/mysuru-cops-use-drones-to-detect-crowds-two-cases-booked/articleshow/75101424.cms||---
April 12, 2020||Rajkot||Two held for temple priest’s murder in Babra||Rajkot: A male and a female monk were arrested in connection with murder of a temple priest in Ranpar village of Babra taluka in Amreli district on Saturday. The temple priest Shyamdas was strangled and his body burnt allegedly by the accused Sandeepnath Guru (35) and Varsha Sarvaiya (50) to destroy evidence on March 25.The murder was detected after Paresh Solanki, a social worker in Ranpar, spotted a skull and a skeleton amid the burnt woods in Hanuman Temple on the outskirts of the village. Solanki informed the police which found that the priest of Hanuman temple Shyamdas was missing. Meanwhile, the police received a tip-off that Shyamdas had been murdered and that Sandeepnath and Sarvaiya were involved in the crime. Police rounded up Sandeepnath who confessed to having murdered Shyamdas with the help of Sarvaiya.Sandeepnath told the cops that he had come in contact with Shyamdas three years ago in Haridwar, Uttarakhand. On his invitation, Sandeepnath had come to stay at ashram of Hanuman Temple. On the fateful day on March 25, Shyamdas and Sarvaiya had a fight, following which Shyamdas ran after Sarvaiya to hit her. Sandeepnath intervened and asked Shyamdas not to hit her. At this, Shyamdas got incensed and lashed Sandeepnath with a rope. Sandeepnath snatched the rope from the hands of Shyamdas and overpowered him. Both Sandeepnath and Sarvaiya tied the hands and feet of Shyamdas to a cot, before strangling Shyamdas with the rope. “The accused duo dragged the cot with the help of a car to the room where holy yagna fire used to be lit. Here, Sarvaiya collected woods and placed on Shyamdas’ body and underneath the cot, after which both the accused allegedly set the body on fire,” said R K Karamta, inspector with Amreli local crime branch.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/two-held-for-temple-priests-murder-in-babra/articleshow/75102095.cms||---
April 12, 2020||Hyderabad||Uttam demands pay for sanitation staff||Hyderabad: Telangana Congress president N Uttam Kumar Reddy on Saturday expressed shock over non-payment of salaries for the last two months to sanitation staff of various municipalities in Telangana. Uttam distributed essential commodities to sanitation and Asha workers and also the poor and needy in Nalgonda municipality. He demanded immediate clearance of all dues, along with incentives for sanitation staff. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/uttam-demands-pay-for-sanitation-staff/articleshow/75102099.cms||---
April 12, 2020||Hyderabad||Covid-19 has no religion: Shabbir||Hyderabad: Former minister Mohammed Ali Shabbir condemned BJP and a section of mainstream and social media for their attempts to give communal colour to the spread of coronavirus. He said such attempts were highly objectionable and aimed at diverting people’s attention from the failures of the government. He urged people not to believe in rumours. “Stay united and safe,” he said, while distributing essential commodities to the needy in Tolichowki on Saturday. TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/covid-19-has-no-religion-shabbir/articleshow/75102102.cms||---
April 12, 2020||Rajkot||Cop impostor arrested in Rajkot||Rajkot: A man impersonating himself as a cop was arrested at Greenland Chowkadi in Rajkot on Friday night. Police said the accused, identified as Narendrasinh Jadeja (23), had put on an old uniform of Rajkot City Police and was checking vehicles at Greenland Chowkadi.“When Jadeja stopped our vehicle for checking, we saw that he had worn the uniform with Rajkot City Police logo emblazoned on it. It was an outdated uniform, as the new uniform has the logo of Gujarat Police. Our suspicion strengthened when we saw that he was wearing sports shoes,” said R Y Rawal, inspector with Rajkot special operation group. During his interrogation, Jadeja told the cops that he earlier used to work as a traffic warden.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/cop-impostor-arrested-in-rajkot/articleshow/75102104.cms||---
April 12, 2020||Pune||Festival gig postponed, theatre group turns to YouTube to premiere play||PUNE: The city-based Theatron group was supposed to stage its new and already-acclaimed play Mickey at an arts festival in New Delhi, until the coronavirus-induced lockdown put paid to the plans. Undeterred, they have decided to heed their fans’ demands on YouTube. “The festival, where we were supposed to perform, has been postponed due to the coronavirus outbreak across the country. So we are streaming a performance of the play that was recorded earlier and the online premiere will be on Sunday over YouTube,” said Suraj Parasnis, director of Theatron, whose YouTube page will carry the two-act play in Marathi. The play was supposed to be staged in March, at the META festival in New Delhi, according to Parasnis. The YouTube stream will start at 9.30pm on Sunday Parasnis also stars and co-directs the play, as does Virajas Kulkarni, who wrote the play. Along with them, the two hourlong play stars Shivraj Waichal and Omkar Gokhale in other pivotal roles. According to the writers, the play is a modern-day Shakespearean tragedy with dollops of drama, character sketches and explorations of morality. The three main characters in the play run a barber shop, till a freak accident ends up with them possessing a corpse. The crux of the play involves how the pressure and greed changes the characters and the morality of seemingly ordinary people, something that has been reflected in multiple tragedies written by Shakespeare.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/festival-gig-postponed-theatre-group-turns-to-youtube-to-premiere-play/articleshow/75102538.cms||Shiladitya Pandit
April 12, 2020||Pune||Savitribai Phule Pune University comes out with stricter rules||PUNE: The Savitribai Phule Pune University has closed its main gates since Thursday midnight in light of the increased lockdown violation by some its employees and their family members. The varsity had issued a notification on Thursday stating that the staff and their family members living inside the campus would be provided with a security pass. They would have to furnish the pass to cross the main gate. “The pass would be issued once a week per family after analysing their reasons for venturing out. In case of extreme emergency, an extra pass will be issued by the deputy registrar,” the notification issued by SPPU registrar Prafulla Pawar stated. “It has come to our notice that many employees and their family members are going out of the university often. Such irresponsible behaviour will pose health risks to everyone who is residing in the campus. Such leisure ventures are making the varsity’s effort to contain the spread of coronavirus futile, ” the notification added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/sppu-comes-out-with-stricter-rules/articleshow/75102533.cms||---
April 12, 2020||Kanpur||Kanpur: 77-year-old Covid-19 suspect dies at Lala Lajpat Rai hospital||KANPUR: A 77-year-old man, who was admitted to Lala Lajpat Rai hospital as a coronavirus suspect, died in the evening hours of Friday. His sample was sent to SGPGI in Lucknow and his test reports are awaited, said Dr RK Maurya, chief medical superintendent, LLR hospital. The man was earlier treated at a private hospital and was later admitted to ICU of the medicine department of LLR hospital on Friday afternoon. He was shifted to the Covid-19 ward the same evening after he showed Covid-19 symptoms but he died during the treatment. Dr Maurya said. The patient did not have any recent travel history, he said. He however was suffering from neumonitis and pulmonary edema and his condition was critical, he added. The man was admitted to a private hospital in Sarvodaya Nagar on Wednesday morning where he was undergoing treatment. As per the Covid-19 protocol, his body has been sealed in a bag under the supervision of health officials. It was later handed to his family members with instructions of not to open it, the CMS added||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kanpur/77-year-old-covid-19-suspect-dies-at-llr-hosp/articleshow/75102472.cms||---
April 12, 2020||Kanpur||Factory worker from Rajasthan is first corona case in Kannauj||Kanpur: A worker of a factory in Rajasthan who returned to his native village in Kannauj on March 2 has tested positive for novel coronavirus despite being asymptomatic, making in the first case in the district. The district health authorities swung into action as it was the first Covid-19 case in the district. The man had himself turned up at the government medical college in Tirwa for medical check up and test following appeals from government and administration. “The man works at a private factory in Bhiwadi area of Rajasthan and had returned to his native village in Thatia area of Kannauj on March 28,” said officials. “He didn’t have any symptom of novel coronavirus infection. However, he himself went to government medical college in Tirwa for medical test as he did not want to take chance. When he shared his travel history, doctors sent his throat and nasal swab samples to Saifai Medical university, Etawah. His report arrived on Friday evening. He tested positive, despite being asymptomatic,” said Kannauj chief medical officer Kamal Krishna. The man has been admitted in Covid-19 ward at Sarsaul Community Health Centre in Kanpur. “We have sealed the whole village and nearly 550 people have been home quarantined. We have taken samples of his family members and sent them to Saifai Medical university for test. We are also tracing the route took, his travel date, time and locations where he stopped. The details and his route map would be further dispatched to respective district administrations,” said a health official.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kanpur/factory-worker-from-rajasthan-is-first-corona-case-in-kannauj/articleshow/75102492.cms||Faiz Rahman Siddiqui
April 12, 2020||Hyderabad||Veg markets in open spaces in Cantonment||Secunderabad: In order to ensure that vegetable and fruit vendors follow social distancing norms, officials of Secunderabad Cantonment Board (SCB) are setting up markets in 12 open areas and playgrounds in their jurisdiction with boxes marked on the ground. “With the joint efforts of SCB and police, we have decided to restrict selling of vegetables and fruits through pushcarts in the residential colonies and are making alternate arrangements in all eight wards,” SCB senior superintendent (solid waste management), M Devender, told TOI. He added that the SCB and police will monitor the situation in the areas.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/veg-markets-in-open-spaces-in-cantonment/articleshow/75102109.cms||---
April 12, 2020||Rajkot||Four admitted to Wankaner hospital||Rajkot: Four persons from Ahmedabad have been admitted to the isolation ward of Wankaner Civil Hospital after they came to Raja Vadala village of Wankaner taluka in Morbi district. Police said the persons were the family members of one Hussein who brought them to Wankaner from Ahmedabad on Thursday. “One of Hussein’s neighbours complained about them, following which we detained them and got them admitted to the hospital,” said an official from Wankaner taluka police station. TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/four-admitted-to-wankaner-hospital/articleshow/75102111.cms||---
April 12, 2020||Delhi||Auto drivers to get Rs 5,000 relief from Monday||New Delhi: On April 2, Delhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal had announced a relief assistance of Rs 5,000 to drivers of autorickshaws, e-rickshaws, Gramin Sewa vehicles etc. to compensate for the loss of income in wake of the lockdown. The government on Saturday announced that the process of direct transfer of the one-time financial help would start from Monday. The reason it took 10 days for the government to fix the modalities of the direct transfer after the announcement by the CM, sources said, was because the government wanted a mechanism that will ensure only genuine beneficiaries get the amount. That is why, the government has decided to give the benefit to all Public Service Vehicle (PSV) badge and driving license holders and not just vehicle owners or those who have permits. “Unions of autorickshaw and taxi drivers had approached the government saying that if only permits were made the basis of assistance, many needy drivers wouldn’t benefit,” a Delhi government official said.” The one-time financial help will be given those holding PSV badges issued till March 23 and valid driving license of para-transit vehicles. The amount will be given through direct benefit of transfer in the Aadhaar linked bank accounts of the eligible PSV holders in Delhi. The online applications can be filled from 10 am on April 13 at https://transport.delhi.gov.in/.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/auto-drivers-to-get-rs-5000-relief-from-monday/articleshow/75102541.cms||Sidharatha Roy
April 12, 2020||Delhi||Delhi auto drivers to get Rs 5,000 relief from Monday||NEW DELHI: On April 2, Delhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal had announced a relief assistance of Rs 5,000 to drivers of autorickshaws, e-rickshaws, Gramin Sewa vehicles etc. to compensate for the loss of income in wake of the lockdown. The government on Saturday announced that the process of direct transfer of the one-time financial help would start from Monday. The reason it took 10 days for the government to fix the modalities of the direct transfer after the announcement by the CM, sources said, was because the government wanted a mechanism that will ensure only genuine beneficiaries get the amount. That is why, the government has decided to give the benefit to all Public Service Vehicle (PSV) badge and driving license holders and not just vehicle owners or those who have permits. “Unions of autorickshaw and taxi drivers had approached the government saying that if only permits were made the basis of assistance, many needy drivers wouldn’t benefit,” a Delhi government official said.” The one-time financial help will be given those holding PSV badges issued till March 23 and valid driving license of para-transit vehicles. The amount will be given through direct benefit of transfer in the Aadhaar linked bank accounts of the eligible PSV holders in Delhi. The online applications can be filled from 10 am on April 13 at https://transport.delhi.gov.in/.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/auto-drivers-to-get-rs-5000-relief-from-monday/articleshow/75102542.cms||Sidharatha Roy
April 12, 2020||Hyderabad||KCR moots ‘chopper money’ to bail out states battling Covid-19 pandemic||HYDERABAD: Chief minister K Chandrasekhar Rao on Saturday asked Prime Minister Narendra Modi to adopt quantitative easing (QE) and the effective use of ‘helicopter money’ to bail out states from the severe financial distress on account of Covid-19 pandemic and the lockdown. The CM said both the Centre and states do not have revenues. “In April, instead of Rs 4,000 crore revenue, the state government got only Rs 100 crore. The Centre’s tax collections have also dwindled,” he said. In a letter to the PM, the chief minister said the approach of QE was being followed by all major central banks in the world such as Federal Reserve Bank, European Central Bank and Bank of England. “We have requested the PM that the proposed QE should be at least 5% of GDP. As per the statistical office, the 2019-20 GDP of India is Rs 203.85 lakh crore and the QE at the rate works (at 5%) out to Rs 10.15 lakh crore,” the CM said. KCR also urged the CM to extend corporate contribution to CMRF as a corporate social responsibility (CSR) on the lines of PM CARES Fund.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/kcr-moots-chopper-money-to-bail-out-states/articleshow/75102539.cms||---
April 12, 2020||Goa||46 from Tablighi Jamaat test negative: Pramod Sawant||PANAJI: CM Pramod Sawant said on Saturday that 46 persons from the Tablighi Jamaat who were traced in Goa have tested negative for Covid-19. Sawant said that his government is in the process of inquiring into why these persons came to Goa. A senior official said that many of these 46 didn’t attend the main event in Delhi last month.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/46-from-tablighi-jamaat-test-ve/articleshow/75102540.cms||---
April 12, 2020||Patna||One more tests coronavirus positive in Bihar, tally up to 61||PATNA: A 45-year-old man from Nawada was tested positive for Covid-19 on Saturday, taking the total number of positive cases in Bihar to 61. State health department principal secretary Sanjay Kumar said the man had come in contact with a positive person and contracted the virus from him. With this, the number of Covid-19 cases in Nawada has increased to two. A 38-year-old man from the district with suspected Tablighi Jamaat links was earlier tested positive for the virus. He had returned from Delhi on March 9. Till now, Covid-19 cases have been reported from 11 districts in the state. Siwan alone accounts for 29 cases and Munger seven. However, state’s recovery rate is above national average. As per the data shared by health department, Bihar ranks third in terms of Covid recovery rate. While the national recovery rate is 10.1%, it stands at 30% in Bihar. Top two states in this category are Chhattisgarh and Kerala with recovery of 50% and 34.1%, respectively. Better recovery rate means more people getting cured of Covid-19. So far, 18 people have recovered from Covid-19 in Bihar – 11 at Nalanda Medical College and Hospital (NMCH), six at Jawaharlal Nehru Medical College and Hospital (JLNMCH) and one at AIIMS-Patna. Sanjay said average age of people infected with Covid-19 in Bihar is 27 years. Maximum number of Covid-19 positive cases in Bihar is in the age group of 21 to 30 years. In terms of gender, 60% of Covid-19 positive people in Bihar are males and 40% females. Besides, 75% of people who have been tested positive for Covid-19 in the state were asymptomatic. (With inputs from S B Sinha in Nawada)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/1-more-tests-positive-in-state-tally-up-to-61/articleshow/75100846.cms||Sheezan Nezami
April 12, 2020||Hyderabad||Just 1 of 50 firms won’t sack non-permanent staff: Study||HYDERABAD: Highlighting the increased vulnerability of informal workers and contractual employees during the lockdown due to Covid-19 pandemic, a study by the alumnus of Tata Institute of Social Sciences (TISS) has revealed that only one out of 50 firms has committed to not sack their non-permanent staff. A study ‘Response of India Inc.: A study of 50 corporations’, which analysed the responses of 50 major Indian firms to Covid-19 under four domains -- employee sensitivity, community outreach, business re-orientation and financial support — pointed out that most of the firms were focusing only on instituting work from home or giving leave to their workers (38 firms) in accordance with the government regulations. “Although six firms are continuing to pay for their daily wage labourers/contractual employees, only one firm has committed to not firing their non-permanent staff. This highlights the increased vulnerability of informal workers and contractual employees during this shock,” revealed the study conducted by Sampriti Mukherjee and Souma Sekhar Gangopadhyay, alumnus of School of Public Policy and Governance. When it comes to community outreach, the study highlighted that most firms, 21, have spent on providing essential medicines such as sanitisers, soaps, etc. to community members who are not direct employees. Two companies, however, focused primarily on using SHGs for manufacturing the required masks and three firms have committed personnel to undertake front-line activities related to Covid-19. The study also pointed out that across the 50 firms, approximately Rs 4,867.01 crore has been provided towards financial support, with most of the donations going towards PM CARES (Rs 1,377 crore) Fund. According to the study, of the 50 firms, only 22% of the firms have contributed to all four domains.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/just-1-of-50-firms-wont-sack-non-permanent-staff-study/articleshow/75102543.cms||---
April 12, 2020||Mysuru||Those spreading fake messages on social media will be punished: SP||Mysuru: Superintendent of police C B Ryshyanth has warned of taking legal action against anyone spreading rumours, hate messages and fake messages on social media platforms. “A flood of fake messages about the novel coronavirus is doing the rounds on social media, which is creating panic among the public. If anyone is found indulging in any such activities, they will be booked. WhatsApp group admins and members will be held responsible for spreading false messages,” he said. People can examine the veracity of posts on www.factcheck.ksp.gov.in, by uploading such messages to verify their genuineness, said Ryshyanth. “Meanwhile, there is information that some people are posting hate messages about a particular community over the Covid-19 outbreak. The police won’t tolerate such actions at a time when the country is fighting a deadly virus,” he said. If anyone is found harassing the family members of those quarantined in homes, serious action will be taken against them. Hereafter, emergency travel passes will be issued after verifying the need. People may WhatsApp the required information to 8277954000, to seek travel passes.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mysuru/those-spreading-fake-messages-on-social-media-will-be-punished-sp/articleshow/75100785.cms||---
April 12, 2020||Rajkot||Covid-19: Three discharged, 4-year-old girl tests positive||Rajkot: A four-year-old girl of Bhavnagar tested positive on Saturday, while the girl’s parents were trying to hoodwink the police to escape from an area under cluster quarantine. According to Bhavnagar collector Gaurang Makwana, “The girl’s mother is disabled, and her father tried to leave the area showing medical emergency to the police. As per instruction the family was then intercepted outside the village and taken to the community health centre where her samples tested Covid positive.”“Covid-19 hasn’t spread to Ghogha but after this incident, we have kept everybody who had come into the girl’s contact in quarantine, including the autorikshaw driver,” Makwana added. Meanwhile, three positive patients of coronavirus got discharged from different hospitals on Saturday. . Two female family members of Abdul Karim Shaikh, the first coronavirus positive patient of the city who died on March 26 got discharged from Sir T hospital on Saturday evening. Shaikh got infected after taking part in Tabilighi Jamaat congregation in Nizamuddin, Delhi. Nazmaben, 55, wife of deceased Abdulkarim, and Salma, 34, daughter-in-law got discharged after they recovered on Saturday evening. The third patient to be discharged on the day is Gir Somnath district’s first Covid-19 positive patient, Ahmad Abdul Gani, 65, who tested positive after he returned from Dubai. Gani was admitted to the hospital on March 27 and tested positive on the second day. After he tested negative two times the hospital administration decided to discharge Gani. Walking out of the isolation ward amid cheers, by the medical staff , Gani said, “I will pray to God that this virus may get totally abolished from India.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/covid-19-three-discharged-4-year-old-girl-tests-positive/articleshow/75102121.cms||---
April 12, 2020||Mangaluru||Forum feed the needy in city||Mangaluru: As hundreds of people struggle to get food due to the lockdown, We are United , an organisation founded by Azzfar Razack, is feeding the needy in the city. With over 600 young members, the organisation led by Razack, has been providing food to poor patients in various hospitals, and also to daily wage labourers, who have got stuck in the city for the last two weeks. We are United is one among many groups that is feeding the needy in Mangaluru. Razack says they distribute food kits to the poor, and that on average they spend about Rs 20,000 every day. “The contribution comes from our group members, and no money is taken from other sources. The only motto of the group is to help the needy,” says Razack. He adds that whenever the group runs out of cash, he spends his own money. The organisation which was founded in 2018, has been conducting various charitable initiatives in the past, which includes celebrating Christmas with orphans, Swachh Bharat campaign, iftar and others. They served food to poor patients in Fr Mullers, KMC, Indiana and other hospitals. The forum feeds over 500 people daily, who have been affected by the lockdown. The group provides breakfast, lunch and dinner. “It is a time to celebrate humanity, and reach out to the needy in this critical situation,” stresses Razack.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mangaluru/forum-feed-the-needy-in-city/articleshow/75100043.cms||---
April 12, 2020||Vadodara||Youth Cong member booked for venturing out of red zone||Vadodara: Youth Congress leader from Tandalja was booked on Friday for questioning police about what arrangements have been made to provide poultry items and meat in the red zone at Tandalja.Cops registered an offence against Ashfaque Malek for violation of public notification and committing a negligent act to spread infection of disease dangerous to human life.Police said that Malek despite living in the red zone of Tandalja have been coming out of the house and travelling frequently to JP Road police station. Cops alleged that Malek made representation that the poultry and meat shops in the area have been closed by the authorities so what arrangement have they done so that people in the area can continue to have chicken and mutton. “We told him that our job is to maintain law and order and he should ask the municipal corporation regarding providing of essential items yet he kept coming to police station to make such demands,” said a police official. Malek has also been accused of alleging that Tandalja has been deliberately declared as red zone to target members from minority community.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/youth-cong-member-booked-for-venturing-out-of-red-zone/articleshow/75101695.cms||---
April 12, 2020||Hyderabad||People urged not to self-medicate||HYDERABAD: Hospitals are taking utmost care to ensure that those who need immediate medical attention, including cancer patients, are safe when they walk into these facilities for treatment, said Dr K Sreekanth, head of surgical oncology at Yashoda Hospital, Somajiguda.Answering readers’ queries during a Facebook Live with TOI -- on busting myths around Covid-19 -- he said: “While we have been advising cancer patients to avoid stepping out, as they are more susceptible to contracting the virus due to low immunity levels; they must call in case of an emergency. They should not avoid visiting a hospital for fear of Covid-19.” Advising people against self-medication, hoarding of N95 masks and consuming unverified news, Dr Sreekanth said people should, instead, strictly practice social distancing and hand hygiene to keep themselves safe. “There are a lot of people I know who have stocked up on Hydroxychloroquine and Azithromycin thinking it’ll protect them from the virus. Never take these drugs without a doctor’s prescription. Hydroxychloroquine is prescribed only for patients who’ve tested positive for Covid-19 and healthcare workers attending to them,” the oncologist said, cautioning people against side-effects. “Even for Covid-19 patients, adminitered the drug after ensuring he/she has no cardiac issues as it can lead to blockage in heart,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/people-urged-not-to-self-medicate/articleshow/75102129.cms||---
April 12, 2020||Hyderabad||Hyderabad: Vendors struggle to make ends meet due to lockdown||HYDERABAD: With the government allowing only vegetable and fruit sellers to carry on their business during lockdown, majority of the street vendors and hawkers are finding it tough to make ends meet. Hawkers dealing with ready-made clothes, operating tiffin centres and fast food stalls are among those who have temporarily lost their livelihood due to the lockdown. Vinod Kumar Jaiswal, who runs a fast food centre in Hi-Tec City, said, “I used to earn Rs 700 a day. Now, with everything shut, my pockets are empty.Of the four kids I have, three are dependent on me and one has a fast food centre of his own. We all have no choice but to sit at home. The savings I have will not last more than a week.” Sharing his struggle, Suresh S, who sells women’s jewellery on a footpath in Dilsukhnagar, said, “I have three children. I have been borrowing from others to meet my expenses.” Faced with an uncertain future, vendors are seeking government support. S Venkat Mohan, state president, Telangana Street Vendors and Hawkers Union, said, “Compensation must reach vendors immediately.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/vendors-struggle-to-make-ends-meet/articleshow/75102115.cms||Uttara Varma
April 12, 2020||Patna||Bihar: 86,000 health workers to fan out for doorstep screening||PATNA: In a bid to ascertain if the Covid-19 virus has reached the community transmission stage in Bihar, the state health department has initiated a door-to-door campaign across the state to screen people suffering from severe respiratory problems. People with such underlying conditions are said to be more vulnerable. According to an order issued on Friday evening, around 86,000 Asha and other health workers have been given the task of screening influenza like illness (ILI) patients. Also, all healthcare facilities, including private ones, have been asked to give detailed information of patients admitted with Severe Acute Respiratory Illness (SARI) and get their samples tested for Covid-19. “These are strategies to ascertain whether there is community transmission of Covid-19 in the state or not,” health department additional secretary Manoj Kumar told TOI on Saturday. Kumar added that this strategy will be implemented across the state and those with symptoms will be tested for Covid-19. Differentiating between ILI and SARI, Kumar said in ILI people have symptoms like sore throat, cough or fever and when they are admitted in hospital with these symptoms, they are called SARI patients. State nodal officer for Covid-19, Dr Ragini Mishra said, “Screening of ILI patients and testing of SARI patients has started at the district level. Now, we are compiling data at the state level to monitor them and find out Covid-19 cases in them.” She added, “We have got information about 50 SARI samples collected from across the state, out of which 39 samples have been tested. Report of 17 samples have come negative and others are awaited. It is a relief.” Such initiatives have been taken after Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) in its recent study found that a number of SARI patients, who tested positive for Covid-19, did not have any travel history, nor had they directly come into contact with a person infected with the coronavirus. According to the ICMR study, there is no data available for 59 Covid patients with SARI symptoms regarding their contact with other positive patient or foreign travel history, still they had tested positive for Covid-19. Most of these SARI patients were detected from Maharashtra, West Bengal, Tamil Nadu and Delhi. Apart from testing SARI patients, state health department has expanded its parameters for testing Covid-19. Initially, only symptomatic people returning from foreign countries were being tested. However, from March 29 onwards, health department ordered to test all those who had entered Bihar from foreign countries from March 18 onwards. After implementation of this new strategy, the state recorded 15 fresh Covid-19 positive cases with history of foreign travel and 22 other cases of those who came in contact with a positive person, taking total number to 37. A senior government official said, “People were earlier only screened at the airports and asymptomatic ones were allowed to go home. But these are cases in which symptoms develops after four to five days. Everyone, whether symptomatic or asymptomatic should have been tested before being allowed to go home.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/86k-health-workers-to-fan-out-for-doorstep-screening/articleshow/75100883.cms||Sheezan Nezami
April 12, 2020||Delhi||Delhi government files complaint against fake ration site||NEW DELHI: The food, supplies and consumer affairs department on Saturday submitted a complaint to Delhi Police against a fake website cheating people in the name of issuing ration cards. An official said the fake website was duping the vulnerable section affected by the lockdown. Delhi government has been distributing ration free of cost to about 71 lakh beneficiaries besides giving free wheat and rice to even those not having the ration card by issuing e-coupons after registering them on a government portal. According to the complaint given by a special commissioner of the food and supplies department to the special commissioner of police (Crime Branch), the fake website — rationcard.co.in — claims to help people register for a digital ration card after paying Rs 407 “Only the government is competent to issue a ration card and there is no enabling provision under law to authorise any agent to issue ration card,” said the complaint, which had the screenshots of the website attached with it. According to officials, the complaint against the website was received by the office of the minister of food and supplies on Saturday evening. “It is requested that necessary directions be issued for immediate registration of FIR and arrest the miscreants,” the complaint read.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/govt-files-complaint-against-fake-ration-site/articleshow/75102544.cms||Atul Mathur
April 12, 2020||Coimbatore||11 more test +ve,total count 97||Coimbatore: Eleven more people tested positive for Covid-19 on Saturday, taking the total number of cases in the district to 97. The 11 people are city residents and are family members of the Tablighi Jamaat conference attendees, who had tested positive for the virus two weeks ago. The public health department has placed the district in the red zone for having the second highest number of cases in Tamil Nadu. Officials on Saturday confirmed that 37 family members including the 11 of the conference attendees, have so far tested positive. The results of another 60 people are awaited. “We tested 206 people who are family members of the 58 people who tested positive for the virus after attending the conference in New Delhi,” said deputy director of public health Dr G Ramesh Kumar. “As many as 109 of them tested negative, but have been instructed to stay indoors,” he said. Coimbatore collector K Rajamani said the 11 cases were spread across corporation limits. “They are spread across nine points in the city including R S Puram, Podanur and Ukkadam. Roads leading to their houses have been cordoned off. All the 11 of them have gone to PSG Hospitals for treatment.” The red zone status is only a classification tool to mark districts with comparatively higher number of cases, the collector said. “Besides the Tablighi Jamaat cases and their contacts, we have only single digits and they are totally unrelated to each other. So, we believe the situation is well under control in the district,” he said. The district administration has prepared a list of 719 people, who will undergo the rapid card test, the collector said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/11-more-test-vetotal-count-97/articleshow/75102134.cms||---
April 12, 2020||Hyderabad||Be careful, but don’t stop urgent treatment fearing Covid-19 spread||Ever since Covid-19 made its presence felt in India, there has been a drastic decrease in the number of emergency cases coming to hospitals. On an average, there’s been a 40% to 50% drop in emergencies across large institutions in the world. What does this mean? Has Covid-19 reduced the incidence of acute conditions in the community? The answer is an emphatic no. On March 26, a nephew of mine called at 10 am to say his 45-year-old father was not able to speak properly and was experiencing weakness on his left arm and leg. I told him it appeared to be a stroke and that he must be rushed to hospital. While I waited for him at the emergency room for 60 minutes, they didn’t turn up. My nephew said his parents were not willing to travel to the hospital as they were worried about Coivd- 19. I decided to take charge and went to their house. My cousin had clear signs of stroke and needed immediate treatment. I did everything I could but the fear of Covid-19 defeated my efforts. He told me it was only weakness and he'd recover in a couple of hours. I returned to the hospital. Later that night around 11 pm, I got a call from my nephew saying his father was not able to speak and had lost complete power in his left arm and leg; they were on their way to the hospital. I called the emergency room and asked them to take care of the patient. But by then, he was well past the Golden period, that could have prevented permanent disability. Since then, my cousin is not able to speak or move his left arm and leg. All we can now do is physiotherapy and pray some power returns. Juxtaposed to this is the story of a little girl from Kerala. She had cancer in her right eye and came to Hyderabad for treatment three months ago. She received her first dose of chemotherapy and went back only to return for her second dose in the first week of April. Then the lockdown happened. But her father, an electrician by profession, did not give up. Through media he reached out to the Chief Minister of Kerala who, moved by his plight, spoke to his counterparts in Tamil Nadu, Karnataka, AP and Telangana and facilitated the family’s travel to Hyderabad. The girl is currently undergoing chemotherapy. Heart attacks, strokes, infections, cancer -- there are numerous clinical conditions that need immediate treatment and delay can prove to be disastrous. Covid-19 or any other factor cannot stop the rapid progress of these conditions. Yes, we need to be careful, but at what cost? Hospitals across the country have taken precautions to prevent exposure to Covid- 19 and are going beyond their routine to be available for emergencies. Let fear not be the reason for unnecessary deaths or disability. (The author is president of Apollo Hospitals Group)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/be-careful-but-dont-stop-urgent-treatment-fearing-covid-19-spread/articleshow/75102144.cms||---
April 12, 2020||Coimbatore||Coimbatore: Meat, fish stalls to remain closed until further orders||COIMBATORE: Collector K Rajamani on Saturday announced the plans to keep all the meat and fish stalls in the district closed indefinitely from Monday. He said, “The meat shops and fish shops won’t function from Monday and they will remain closed until further orders.” While addressing the media, the collector also warned people against making unsolicited comments about a particular religion in connection with Covid-19 and spreading any rumours in connection with the virus outbreak. “Offenders will be booked,” he said. The collector said stringent action would be taken against the people who were deliberately coming out during the lockdown. “We have discussed with police officials and will implement the prohibitory orders strictly in the district. Repeat offenders will be arrested immediately.” He urged families to assign only one person to venture out to buy vegetables, groceries, medicines or other essentials. “Buy and store the essential commodities for at least three to four days. No one should come out of the houses often in the name of buying essential commodities. Violators will be arrested and their vehicles will also be seized,” Rajamani said. Pointing out that around 300 foreigners were staying at the Isha Yoga Centre, the collector said, “More than 150 of them arrived at the centre in November 2019 and the remaining in January this year. They were all screened by the health department and no one has tested positive for coronavirus.” Reiterating that the district administration was committed to keeping the spread of Covid-19 in check, Rajamani said around 700 staff from revenue department, local bodies and health department have been deputed for door-to-door check at Mettupalayam, Anaimalai, Pollachi South, Pollachi North, Annur and Madukkarai taluks, Sirumugai and city corporation areas. “They are monitoring 97,000 houses in the district,” he said. The collector said 86 people from the district were tested positive for the virus so far and that they were undergoing treatment at the ESI Hospital. He said the health department had taken nasal swabs from 206 family members of the people, who had earlier tested positive for the virus. “Of the 96 results that came on Friday, 26 were tested positive, 64 negative and the results of the remaining were inconclusive. We are awaiting the results of others.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/meat-fish-stalls-to-remain-closed-until-further-orders/articleshow/75102155.cms||---
April 12, 2020||Rajkot||Video: Leopard enters bungalow in Gujarat, attacks pet dog||RAJKOT: A leopard entered a bungalow and attacked a dog is sleeping in the courtyard in Golden City Society of Una in Gir Somnath district on Friday night. The CCTV footage of the incident shows the dog wagging its tail to appease the big cat, but the leopard catches its by the throat. However, before it could kill the dog, a vehicle passed by on the road. Scared by the sound, the leopard relinquishes its pray, climbs to the compound wall of the bungalow and vanishes into the cover of darkness. This incident came to light on Saturday morning, after it got captured in the CCTV camera installed in the courtyard of the bungalow owned by Mahesh Bamania. “It is the first time that I have realized that my house is prone to visits by the big cats. I’ve alerted the forest department about the incident,” said Bamania. “We have set up a cage with a live bait inside it to trap the leopard,” said an official from the forest department. As per the 2017 census, the leopard population in Gujarat increased by nearly 30% - from 1,070 in 2006 to 1,395 in 2017. During a state assembly session in March, the state government said that there had been 104 leopard attacks in Gir Somnath and Amreli districts in 2018 and 2019. Of these, 53 incidents were reported from Gir Somnath district, while 51 incidents were reported from Amreli district. Watch On cam: Leopard enters bungalow, attacks pet dog in Gujarat||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/leopard-attacks-pet-dog-in-una-bungalow/articleshow/75102154.cms||---
April 12, 2020||Coimbatore||Coimbatore: Man jailed for loitering in affected locality||COIMBATORE: A 39-year-old man was arrested for roaming around the Covid-19 affected area of Vasantham Nagar near Kuniyamuthur here on Friday night and preventing a sub-inspector from discharging his duty. He was lodged in Avinashi sub-jail under judicial custody on Saturday. Police identified the accused as H Feroz Khan, of Brindavan Circle at Kuniyamuthur, a fish seller. Vasantham Nagar and surrounding areas were sealed after some residents were tested positive for the virus. At least eight people are also in home quarantine in the area, from where no one is allowed to venture out. Similarly, people from outside are not allowed in. Flouting the prohibitory orders, Khan entered the area on Friday night and was spotted by Kuniyamuthur police sub-inspector Silambarasan and his team while they were on rounds. “When they asked him to return to his house, he argued with the sub-inspector and did not allow him to discharge his duty. He also threatened the cop,” a police source said. Based on the sub inspector’s complaint, the Kuniyamuthur police registered a case against Feroz Khan under Sections 269 (negligent act likely to spread infection of disease dangerous to life), 270 (malignant act likely to spread infection of disease dangerous to life), 353 (assault or criminal force to deter public servant from discharge of his duty) and 506 (i) (criminal intimidation) of the Indian Penal Code and arrested him the same night.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/man-jailed-for-loitering-in-affected-locality/articleshow/75102141.cms||---
April 12, 2020||Coimbatore||2 primary contacts test positive in the Nilgiris||Udhagamandalam: Two more people tested positive for Covid-19 in the Nilgiris on Saturday, taking the total tally to nine.The two cases are primary contacts of the two people from here who had attended the Tablighi Jamaat meet in Delhi. While one is a 19-year-old youth from Kandal area in Ooty, the other is a 22-year old man from Kotagiri. According to deputy director of public health Dr P Balusamy, the duo was sent to the ESI hospital in Coimbatore on Friday for treatment. Health officials had identified 30 primary contacts of the eight people, who had attended the religious meet in Delhi. They were kept in home quarantine from April 1. Their throat swabs and blood were collected and sent to the Coimbatore Medical College Hospital for test on April 8. “The test reports revealed that only two of the primary contacts of the two attendees were positive. The remaining 28 tested negative,” said Balusamy. The nine people who tested positive are being treated at the ESI hospital in Coimbatore.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/2-primary-contacts-test-positive-in-the-nilgiris/articleshow/75102160.cms||---
April 12, 2020||Vijayawada||Restrictions hit cargo handling at Vizag port||Vijayawada: The lockdown to combat the spread of coronavirus has begun impacting cargo handling business at Visakhapatnam port, with a 30% shortfall in the first 10 days of April, compared to the same period in 2019, a senior official of Visakhapatnam Port Trust (VPT) said on Saturday. “Cargo handling operations have been hit because of the lockdown because our major clients have stopped using our facilities. We are open for business, but our clients have to come back,” P L Haranadh, deputy chairman of Visakhapatnam Port Trust, told STOI. According to Haranadh, with the government planning to extend the lockdown till 30 April, he expected cargo throughput to remain slow for the rest of the month. The port reported a robust growth in cargo throughput in 2019-20, handling 72.72 million tonnes (MT) compared to 65.30 MT in the previous year, an increase of 11.45%. The port stands third in cargo handling among all major ports in the country, after Kandla in Gujarat and Paradip in Odisha. “This is the best ever cargo handled in the 86 years of Visakhapatnam since 1933. It surpassed the nine-year-old record of 68 MT handled by the port in 2010-11, when private ports like Gangavaram and Krishnapatnam were not active,” a VPT release had said. Haranadh said with the decreased cargo throughput, the port had temporarily reduced its non-essential staff. “We have not reduced the number of staff on the port’s operations side, to ensure that the ships that berth at the port are attended to immediately,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/restrictions-hit-cargo-handling-at-vizag-port/articleshow/75101478.cms||Shaukat Mohammed
April 12, 2020||Coimbatore||Coimbatore: Two arrested with 4 litre illicit arrack||COIMBATORE: Two people, one of them a woman, were arrested on Saturday for possession of illicit arrack for sale. The woman’s husband, however, managed to escape from the Prohibition Enforcement Wing (PEW) of the Coimbatore rural police, who seized four litres of illicit arrack from the arrested duo. One of the investigation officers identified the accused as Saraswathi, 56, of Semmozhi Nagaram near Andakkapalayam in Sulur, and S Murugesan, 46, of Ramanathapuram district. Saraswathi’s 63-year-old husband B Chinnakutty is on the run. PEW police inspector K Baskaran said, “We got a tip that a person was selling illicit arrack near Mylampatti graveyard at Kariyampalayam. We immediately rushed to the spot and arrested Murugesan. He was accompanied by Chinnakutty, who managed to escape. We have, however, arrested his wife Saraswathi.” Preliminary inquiry revealed that Saraswathi and her husband had bought the illicit arrack from a person in Erode district. “They brought that to Kariyampalayam village on their scooter and handed that over to Murugesan, who was planning to sell 100ml of arrack at Rs 200,” the officer said. The team also conducted a search at the house of Saraswathi but did not find any trace of illicit arrack there. The officer said they have formed a special team to nab her husband. The officer said Saraswathi and Murugesan were booked under Sections 4(1) (a), 4 (1) (h) of the Tamil Nadu Prohibition Act and that they were later let off on conditional bail.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/two-arrested-with-4-litre-illicit-arrack/articleshow/75102158.cms||---
April 12, 2020||Dehradun||Will await central guidelines on lockdown extension: CM||Dehradun: In a video-conferencing session with Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Saturday, Uttarakhand chief minister Trivendra Singh Rawat provided the updates related to Covid-19 outbreak in the Himalayan state. At present, Uttarakhand has 35 Covid-19-positive cases, no death has been reported in the state so far, and five patients have been treated and discharged. After the video conference, the CM directed the state authorities to follow the directions given by PM Modi and Union home minister Amit Shah. An official communication from the CM's office stated that the guidelines from the Centre would arrive in a day or two and the authorities were directed to comply with it. Seeing the increasing utility of Aarogya Setu app, the Centre has directed the state to encourage maximum number of people to download the application. The communique from the CM’s office said that the PM also directed for social and focussed efforts to deal The communique added that the CM has asked for officials to ensure that people do not misbehave with the health staff or any police personnel as the Centre has directed strict action against such individuals. The CM further said that the number of testing labs, if required, can be increased in the state and black-marketing and stocking of essential products would be strictlychecked and prevented. Meanwhile, while strictly enforcing the lockdown, on Saturday, a total of 11 cases were registered and 307 people were arrested for violation of lockdown orders. Till now, 1,308 cases have been registered and 5,265 people arrested across the state. Challans have been issued to 14,995 vehicle owners, 3,921 vehicles have been seized and a total revenue of Rs 70.42 lakh has been realised.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/will-await-central-guidelines-on-lockdown-extension-cm/articleshow/75101476.cms||Kautilya Singh
April 12, 2020||Coimbatore||Labour union helps govt officials secure details of guest workers||Coimbatore: Labour unions are collecting the details of guest workers from Bihar and Uttar Pradesh in a bid to help them get the funds announced by their home states.Bihar and UP have announced Rs 1,000 assistance for the workers stranded in other parts of the country due to the lockdown, representatives of the Migrant Workers Union under the Centre of Indian Trade Unions (CITU) said.While officials say there are 35,000 guest workers in the district, the union believes there are 1.5 lakh of them here, general secretary of the union S Krishnamoorthy said. “So far, we have collected the details of 5,000 of them. We gave the data to the tahsildars and are in the process of collecting more details,” he said.Authorities are using the data provided by the union, a tahsildar said. “The guest workers can get the money using a mobile app launched by the home states. We are passing on their Aadhaar details and other details we get from the unions,” he said.An official with the enforcement wing of the district labour welfare department said the data on unorganised guest workers they had was in contrast with the state data. “The collector has asked us to get the proper details within April 14,” he said. “We will also help as many as 10,000 guest workers, who are working here as security guards, housekeeping staff, jewellery workers and brick kiln workers, get benefits such as rice and oil announced by the Tamil Nadu government,” the official said.The state government should launch a drive to assess the actual numbers of guest workers, Krishnamoorthy added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/labour-union-helps-govt-officials-secure-details-of-guest-workers/articleshow/75102164.cms||---
April 12, 2020||Rajkot||‘Allow online delivery of liquor to permit holders’||Surat: Chairman of Bharuch’s Ganesh Sugar Mill has urged the state government to allow home delivery of liquor to permit holders in Gujarat.Sandip Mangrola, chairman of Ganesh Sugar Mill, who took the initiative of manufacturing hand sanitizer at the mill, said, “Due to lockdown, liquor permit shops across the state have downed their shutters, rendering permit holders in the lurch. Permits are issued to individuals for health reasons. I have urged the state government to start an online portal for home delivery of liquor to permit holders.”Mangrola added, “The borders of Gujarat state have been sealed due to lockdown which has stopped supply of liquor from other states.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/allow-online-delivery-of-liquor-to-permit-holders/articleshow/75102167.cms||---
April 12, 2020||Rajkot||5 held for abusing cops in Aravalli||Palanpur: Five persons were arrested in Bayad town of Aravalli district on Friday for allegedly abusing the cops and defying the prohibitory orders.During patrolling, the cops of special operations group and local crime branch spotted them assembled at one place. When questioned, they started hurling expletives at the cops. Those arrested were Altaf Saiyed, Ahmed Saiyed, Bashir Saiyed, Saki Saiyed and Farookh Mirza. TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/5-held-for-abusing-cops-in-aravalli/articleshow/75102163.cms||---
April 12, 2020||Mangaluru||10-month-old baby discharged||Mangaluru: Dakshina Kannada district's clean slate from Covid-19 positive cases continued for the the seventh day in succession on Saturday. The day brought the most cheer for the district administration with the discharge of a 10-month-old infant, the case of which baffled them the most in that it had no case of overseas travel except a visit with family to Covid-19 hotspot of Kasaragod. The authorities also discharged the infant’s mother and grandmother, who were its designated primary contacts and kept in isolation on the day, bringing cheer to the family that hails from Sajipanadu in Bantwal taluk. The fact that the mother and grandmother had tested negative for the global pandemic had only kindled curiosity of health experts who attributed it to inherent immune system of every individual to fight the disease on their terms. Deputy commissioner Sindhu B Rupesh in the daily medical bulletin said the infant, dubbed ‘P06’ was admitted to a private hospital on March 20 with severe acute respiratory infection and test swab reports received on March 25 confirmed presence of coronavirus. With the infant responding well treatment, mandatory tests carried out on April 7 and 8 confirmed the good news that it was cured of the virus and a decision was taken to discharge the baby on Saturday. Terming the day’s development, a positive one for the district, Sindhu said ASHA workers have done an exemplary job of tracking 128 primary contacts of the 12 positive cases and 593 secondary contacts. Another heartening fact, the DC said is the fact that none in Sajipanadu, the village of the infant that was completely sealed following detection of the case, contracted the disease. She lauded the medical fraternity in the district for handling this sensitive case, professionally.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mangaluru/10-month-old-baby-discharged/articleshow/75100821.cms||---
April 12, 2020||Coimbatore||Tamil Nadu: Denied drinking water, residents come out of houses to stage protest||COIMBATORE: Residents of Puliyakulam and surrounding areas on Saturday staged a road roko to protest lag in potable water supply. The residents said they were not supplied drinking water for the past 12 days and that representations to civic body officials to address the issue hadn’t borne any fruit. Police, however, managed to disperse the crowd citing the lockdown, when they were not to allowed to gather in large numbers. A T Rajan, a local resident, said earlier they used to get water once in five days. “But suddenly the supply stopped and we didn’t receive drinking water in the past 12 days. We had taken up the issue with the city corporation officials, but to no avail.” He said tap water was not available in areas such as Periyar Nagar, Pankaja Mill, Rukmini Nagar and Krishnasamy Nagar. “There has been no drinking water in common taps and household taps.” The area, which falls under the city corporation ward 69, houses around 6,000 families. “Around 30 people came out in the open and protested,” Rajan said. When alerted, police personnel reached the spot and asked the protesters to disperse, stating they were not supposed to crowd public places during the Covid-19 pandemic. They pacified the protesters and informed the corporation officials, who took steps to supply drinking water to the residents.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/denied-drinking-water-residents-come-out-of-houses-to-stage-protest/articleshow/75102168.cms||---
April 12, 2020||Coimbatore||Telecounsellors a ring away to help ease stress of lockdown||Coimbatore: Many psychiatry and psychology clinics have begun offering free counselling to people, who are struggling to handle the growing stress and anxiety levels caused by the lockdown and fear of Covid-19. There are anxious or overworked mothers who are breaking down as they are not able to handle multiple chores in the house, people who have preexisting psychiatric disorders but can’t continue their therapy, and adolescents who are stressed about their board exams being postponed, uncertainty over the next academic year and being confined with their parents throughout the day. In this wake, the Tamil Nadu Association of Clinical Psychologists has received the state government’s approval to share a set of doctors’ numbers to be contacted by people who are suffering from anxiety or unmanageable stress during this crisis for free tele counselling session. Its secretary Dr N Suresh Kumar said, “We have around 70 psychologists across the state, of which around 10 to 12 are from Coimbatore. At least five of them have agreed to share their personal mobile phone numbers for people to call if they are becoming too anxious, stressed or seeing a resurfacing of an earlier psychiatric condition.” While the association has received around 150 calls from across the state since the launch of free counselling a week ago, they are expecting an increase in the calls as the lockdown has been extended. Pointing out that she used to receive five to six calls a day, Dr Karthikayani Murugan, one of psychologists, said, “A few of them are new patients, who are calling to just unburden themselves of the stress like women at home who are stressed and unable to manage multiple chores or adolescents who are at odds with their parents. Others are the ones with pre-existing disorders like depression and obsessive-compulsive disorder. They call me often.” Since the outbreak of Covid-19, she said, a person suffering from obsessive-compulsive disorder was in the habit of sanitizing himself every time he touched any surface including his own plate and tumbler in his house. “We also get calls complaining of domestic disturbances and alcoholics suffering from withdrawal symptoms, etc. People who are restless and those with temper issues, insecurities and business stress are easily provoked by this lockdown and confinement,” Dr Kumar said. Vazhikatti Mental Health Centre too has reported an increase in the number of new people calling them complaining of depression, frequent breakdowns and anxiety issues. They said their members would be available on call through the day.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/telecounsellors-a-ring-away-to-help-ease-stress-of-lockdown/articleshow/75102176.cms||---
April 12, 2020||Vadodara||Khambhat woman who visited UP tests positive||Vadodara/Anand: Anand district recorded three more positive cases on Saturday, taking the total number of COVID-19 cases in the district to five. The three include two from Hadgud village, neighbouring milk city, and one from Khambhat town – the first to be recorded in the coastal town of Anand district. The two new cases from Hadgud are the ones that had come in close contact with the 45-year-old garage mechanic from the same village who had tested positive on April 9. The duo, including 45-year-old peon and another 48-year-old garage mechanic, have no comorbid conditions and are admitted in civil hospital at Anand where their condition is said to be stable. Both are asymptomatic cases. The 53-year-old female from Khambhat, who is a homemaker, has travel history of Uttar Pradesh. She had travelled to UP between January 11 and February 21. Earlier, this month she started developing symptoms like fever, cough, abdominal discomfort, dyspnoea and general weakness. She is also suffering from obesity, hypothyroidism and hypertension. The female resident of Motiwala ni khadki is under treatment at the isolation ward of Shree Krishna Hospital, Karamsad. So far, samples of 152 individuals have tested negative while 622 are currently under home quarantine, 32 others are kept under quarantine in government facility. Of the 28 samples of close contacts, which were collected after the first positive case in Hadgud, 26 have tested negative.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/khambhat-woman-who-visited-up-tests-positive/articleshow/75101708.cms||---
April 12, 2020||Vijayawada||CM bats for partial easing of lockdown in green zones||Vijayawada: Chief minister Y S Jaganmohan Reddy pitched for partial easing of lockdown during Saturday’s video conference with Prime Minister Narendra Modi, saying it should be restricted to areas identified as red zones and hotspots for the spread of the virus. Jagan said while taking measures to contain the spread of the virus, it is important to ensure that the economic wheel is kept rolling, at least to an extent of meeting the daily needs of people, if not at its full speed. The enforcement of complete lockdown has put a halt on all economic activities, the CM said, adding that there is a threat of recession if it continues for a longer period. He also expressed his concern over the effect an extended lockdown would have on farmers, farm labourers and workers in industries. “With the supply chain being disrupted, lakhs of families dependent on agriculture and allied sectors have been dealt a serious blow, with no buyers for agriculture and horticulture produce. Horticulture farmers are affected the most due to the perishable nature of produce and lack of sufficient storage facilities in the state. There is an urgent need in the state to procure paddy, corn, chilli, tobacco, banana, papaya and other vegetables. With transportation facilities being affected, it is not possible to procure all these crops for local consumption,” the CM said. He also expressed concerns over the mounting financial burden on the state with revenues plummeting and increased pressure for expenditure on welfare and relief measures. While extending support to any decision taken by the PM in the larger interest of the country, Jagan urged him to consider other possibilities, such as easing the lockdown in areas where virus spread is not there or is under control to enable the restarting of economic activity. Explaining the classification of mandals based on the virus’ spread, the CM said out of 676 mandals in the state, 37 are in red zone, 44 in orange zone, while 595 mandals are in green zone. “As there is no effect of virus in the green zone mandals, the lockdown may be confined to areas in red and orange zones. It can be lifted in green zone areas, while taking necessary precautions such as closing down of malls, movie theatres, schools and places of worship to avoid congregations and by observing social distancing,” he suggested. Jagan added that the state government’s course of action would depend on the Union government’s stance. Explaining his government’s containment measures, Jagan said they have been tracking 1.4 crore families through 2.61 lakh village and ward volunteers, 40,000 Asha workers and 20,000 ANMs.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/cm-bats-for-partial-easing-of-lockdown-in-green-zones/articleshow/75101498.cms||---
April 12, 2020||Kolkata||Kolkata: On the ground, police gear up for extended lockdown||KOLKATA: Cops on Saturday intensified lockdown enforcement in pockets of the city and on its fringes and increased personnel in lanes and bylanes. Police scanned the stretch between Canning Street and Burrabazar-MG Road crossing with drones as a large team patrolled the area and urged people to stay indoors. Cops chased away groups of people talking on the pavement along Colootola Street. New Alipore residents said that they had been asked by cops to stock up essentials as the lockdown would be more strictly enforced, making multiple trips to the market difficult. Residents of Alipore, Panditiya Road and Behala received a similar appeal. Checkpoints have been set up at entrances and exits in Parnasree, where confirmed cases were reported within a family. Checking has also been intensified on roads leading to DH Road and Taratala Road. In Salt Lake, barricades were installed in AD Block, but were removed in the evening. Bidhannagar cops though continued using drones in the area. Shibpur, Salkia and Uluberia in Howrah were barricaded and people entering and leaving the area were asked to show identity cards and reason for venturing out. On the northern fringes, parts of Baranagar, Birati, Belghoria, Bhatpara Madhyamgram, Dum Dum, Nagerbazar and Satgachia were also cordoned off. North Dum Dum Municipality chairman Subodh Chakraborty told TOI: “Due to stricter enforcement in the area, our civic and medical staff have started distributing tokens with emergency phone numbers among the locals. Residents can call the numbers and our supervisors will arrange to send all essential items.” Barrackpore police commissioner Manoj Kumar Verma said, “Stricter enforcement has been imposed in localities of Birati, Bhatpara and Baranagar. But we shall also extend help to locals for procurement of essentials.” (With inputs from Tamaghna Banerjee, Dwaipayan Ghosh, Sanjib Chakraborty, Zeeshan Jawed and Rupak Banerjee)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/on-the-ground-police-gear-up-for-extended-lockdown/articleshow/75102549.cms||---
April 12, 2020||Kolkata||Necessity becomes mother of innovation as families prioritize rationing in crisis||Girish Vasandani freezes leftovers and extra portions to be used as side dishes in lunch the next day.Purnima Ghosh is padding the meals with a lot of vegetables and dairy products at the dining table.Rachna Agarwal takes stock of provisions in the kitchen every day before she decides what to make for lunch and dinner.The lockdown by the government to mitigate the spread of the novel coronavirus is prompting families in Kolkata to strategize and ration everything from shopping to stocking to cooking. Households are creating meals around ingredients that are available, figuring out ways to reduce wastage and updating the grocery list several times a day. “These are not normal times and staying indoors is the key to survival. So it is important to make sure that the food lasts as long as possible,” said Vasandani, a businessman and resident of Convent Road. He has been making sure that any leftover is kept in the refrigerator to be used as a side dish for lunch or dinner the next day. “Generally, people do not like to eat the same dish on consecutive days, but we can’t afford to do that now. We make sure that every bit is consumed.” When options are limited and people can’t go shopping in big groups, even the most adept cook can be challenged. Homemaker Rupanwita Sengupta has been planning meals around what is available in her pantry instead of stocking her kitchen with ingredients to cook the dishes she desires. “Before the lockdown it was easier to hop over to the market. I wouldn’t think twice before cooking rice and mutton. But now, with mutton being so expensive and hardly available, I am cooking with whatever is at my disposal.” Purnima Ghosh, a schoolteacher and resident of Chetla, is padding all the meals with vegetables and dairy products. “So, there are lot vegetables, chana and curd for lunch and dinner at my place for two reasons. First, vegetables and milk are readily available and second, it is important to have fibre and vitamins,” said Ghosh. Santoshpur resident and a private firm employee Debosree Chowdhury, who has been working from home, is trying out innovative dishes with minimum requirements to get through the lockdown. “It is a test of my culinary skills as well,” she said. Yoga instructor Rachna Agarwal is under self-isolation and steps out only when the stock in her kitchen starts depleting. “I have made an inventory, which I update every day. I refer to it before planning meals to understand what I have at my disposal. We try to finish perishable items like vegetables, read and milk first to avoid wastage,” said the Lake Town resident.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/necessity-becomes-mother-of-innovation-as-families-prioritize-rationing-in-crisis/articleshow/75102550.cms||Zeeshan Javed
April 12, 2020||Nashik||Spl teams to identify flu-like illness in district||Nashik: The Nashik district administration has formed rapid reaction teams (RRTs) to identify influenza-like illness (ILI) and severe acute respiratory infection (SARI) among people at the district, taluka and village levels. “Amid the outbreak of Covid-19, we have prepared and mobilised the RRT plan to keep a close watch on clusters of people suffering from ILI and SARI and treat them,” said resident deputy district collector Bhagwat Doifode, who is also the chief officer of the District Disaster Management Authority. The plan involves identification of ILI and SARI cases and get primary information about those suffering in the same family, area, and close contacts. “After identifying the RRTs, will evaluate the situation and alert the higher teams, which will take measures for containment of the disease,” said Doifode. The village-level RRTs have been advised to visit residences and take the details of the health issues that people may be suffering from and get their verified mobile phones for further communication. The taluka-level RRTs have been given the task of monitoring such clusters that may be reported from villages. “The teams can refer any patient with respiratory illness to the civil hospital for diagnosis and treatment. In the event of Covid 19 positive patient, the team should implement the standard containment plan that does not allow the mixing of the population outside the perimeter with those inside,” the officer said. Similarly, the district-level RRTs, through the medical officials, monitor the developments in the health of the patients and take measures accordingly. The district-level RRTs also have been given the responsibility of communicating with the district, if the Covid-19 positive patient of that area has been found anywhere in the district.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/spl-teams-to-identify-flu-like-illness-in-district/articleshow/75088162.cms||Abhilash Botekar
April 12, 2020||Vijayawada||No to disinfection kiosks amid concerns over chemical spray||Vijayawada: After a few disinfection tunnels were inaugurated a few days ago, the municipal administration department has directed civic bodies across the state to not use them. The directive comes in the wake of concerns being raised about the harmful impact of the chemical spray. As the number of Covid-19 positive cases climbed in the city, the district administration and Vijayawada Municipal Corporation (VMC) took a few initiatives to slow down its march. First hand sanitisers were offered at markets, but officials noticed that a majority of the buyers were not utilising them. So the VMC installed tunnels, corona disinfectant kiosks, at makeshift rythu bazaars set up at places such as the Indira Gandhi Municipal Stadium, and Makineni Basava Punniah Stadium. The fog generated with sodium hypochlorite and calcium hypochlorite would disinfect the persons who walk through the kiosk. The accidental spread of the virus from clothes and bags can be prevented with this method. “Disinfectation kiosks are one of the options to prevent the spread of coronavirus. But the chemicals used in it can cause health issues in the long run. Our higher authorities have asked us to stop the process and we are following their instructions,” said a senior official of the health wing at VMC. We will remove the kiosks soon, he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/no-to-disinfection-kiosks-amid-concerns-over-chemical-spray/articleshow/75101522.cms||---
April 12, 2020||Coimbatore||Tamil Nadu: Doctor, 19 nurses of private hospital quarantined||COIMBATORE: Authorities shut down Chennai Hospitals at Gandhipuram and quarantined a doctor and 19 nurses after a patient who tested positive for Covid-19 passed away on Friday night. The deceased, a native of Palakkad in neighbouring Kerala, was running a hardware shop, deputy director of public health Dr G Ramesh Kumar said. “The 70-year-old man, who had uncontrolled diabetes,had fallen sick with cough and breathing problems in his hometown. Since he did not get better after treatment there, he came to Chennai Hospitals where his family doctor was working, on April 3. As he was diabetic and was suffering from breathing distress, he was tested at microbiological labs on April 7. He tested positive for Covid-19 on April 8 and died on April 10,” he said. The hospital stopped taking new patients from April 8 after the patient tested positive, Kumar said. “However, since a doctor and 19 staff nurses were exposed to him, they have been quarantined on the hospital premises. They have no symptoms and their samples are being collected.” A doctor from city-based SJ Gastro Care, who was treating the deceased for diabetes, has also been isolated, the official said. “She had visited him when he was admitted in Chennai Hospitals. Her samples will also be collected today.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/doc-19-nurses-of-pvt-hospital-quarantined/articleshow/75102191.cms||---
April 12, 2020||Nagpur||36 students stranded in Malaysia, want to come back to Nagpur||Nagpur: About 36 students of the local Shri Balasaheb Tirpude College of Hotel Management and Catering Technology are stranded there and are fast running short of money due to global lockdown. They had gone to Malaysia for internship in March. The college management and parents have made an appeal to chief minister Uddhav Thackeray and others in his cabinet to help in bringing their wards back to India. All these students, including seven girls, are undergoing hotel management and catering technology course. They went to Kuala Lumpur and Penang for internship in mid-March, but stuck up after the PM announced the nationwide lockdown. Even the Malaysia government declared lockdown and the students left with no work. “We’re in constant touch with the embassy officials and are trying our level best to bring them back, but our hands are tied at the moment. Earlier, we thought that we would bring them back after the lockdown ends on April 14 in India. However, after today’s extension, we will once again approach the government for the help,” principal Satish Naidu told TOI. Even students had made an appeal to Prime Minister Narendra Modi through a video message for the help. “We are stranded here. We request you sir to facilitate our comeback to our native place, as we’re also short of money,” the aggrieved students said, while narrating their plight. The principal, however, assured there was no need to worry as the hotel where they were staying was taking their full care and all of them were safe. “We’re in contact with the consultant and also students on regular basis through video calls. Their internship was for five months and hotel had agreed to provide them certificates. When it all started, I advised them to come back, but they wanted to continue. Nobody knew at that time that the pandemic would reach such an unprecedented level,” Naidu said. He said he was also in touch with the panicked parents, but they didn’t have any other alternative than to wait till situation normalized. “Some of our students were doing internship in various parts of India, but we called them back before the lockdown. Now, they’re safe at their homes,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/36-students-stranded-in-malaysia-want-to-come-back-to-nagpur/articleshow/75102202.cms||Vaibhav Ganjapure
April 12, 2020||Hubballi||Teachers resent govt order to distribute food packets||Dharwad: Primary and secondary school teachers are unhappy over the recent direction by block education officers (BEOs) to be present in their schools to distribute foodgrains and pulses in lieu of midday meals to the students of Class 1-9. According to the message WhatsApped by BEOs to the heads of the schools, Adamya Chetana, a voluntary organisation that provides midday meals to schools, will distribute packets of rice and pulses instead of cooked food. The message says that the heads of the institutions will be intimated on the date of supply of food items and arrangements should be made to receive them and keep them in hygienic condition. It further says that teachers should ensuring social distancing and distribute the packets with help from cooking assistants. Teachers have also been asked to take the signature of recipients. In case any student is absent, teachers should deliver the packets to the students’ houses. “At a time when schools have been given holiday and people are being asked to remain indoors during the lockdown, the exercise of distributing food packets seems illogical,” said a headmaster. He said the exercise involves assembling of teachers, non-teaching staff and hundreds of students and maintaining social distance becomes a challenge. Many students may not even turn up due to the lockdown. “Asking teachers to deliver the packets to the students’ houses is something ridiculous,” said another teacher. A doctor involved in containing the spread of Covid-19 said the government intends to ensure that children are not deprived of food, but asking them to collect food packets from the school is like inviting risk. “Instead, the government can distribute the same packets to the families of students through the public distribution system. The officials seem to just pass on the instructions that they receive from their superiors without bothering about the pros and cons,” said the doctor. Education department’s officers were not available for their comments.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hubballi/teachers-resent-govt-order-to-distribute-food-packets/articleshow/75096097.cms||---
April 12, 2020||Coimbatore||Tamil Nadu: Man dies after drinking hand sanitizer||COIMBATORE: A 35-year-old Sulur resident, who drank hand sanitizer to get high, passed away on Saturday. Police identified him as E Bernard of Siruvani Tank Road. “He was working as an LPG cylinder delivery boy and was addicted to alcohol. Two days ago, his employer had given him a bottle of hand sanitizer and advised him to use it to prevent the spread of Covid-19. Bernard, who could not buy liquor due to the lockdown, added some water to the alcohol-based hand sanitizer and drank it. He was rushed to the Coimbatore Medical College and Hospital (CMCH) after experiencing breathing trouble on Saturday around 2am. But he could not be saved,” a police officer said. Bernard is survived by his wife B Priya and three daughters.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/man-dies-after-drinking-hand-sanitizer/articleshow/75102189.cms||---
April 12, 2020||Rajkot||150 people booked; 81 vehicles seized||Rajkot: As many as 150 people were booked for the alleged violation of the lockdown order and 81 vehicles impounded in Amreli district in the past 24 hours. Those booked included 109 people who were loitering on the road with or without vehicles, 30 people who had gathered at religious places, five persons roaming without masks, four persons violating the Covid-19 notification and two shop keepers who had kept their shops open and gathered crowds at their places. TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/150-people-booked-81-vehicles-seized/articleshow/75102192.cms||---
April 12, 2020||Salem||Idle hands spoil Salem police’s traffic rationing measure||SALEM: Two days after introducing a system to limit the number of vehicles on roads, city police commissioner T Senthil Kumar on Saturday warned those who are hell-bent on scuttling it. The city police had introduced a colour-coded system on Thursday to allow motorists venture out twice a week. Police personnel used yellow, red and green paints to mark the vehicles. Vehicles that have the yellow tag are allowed on roads on Tuesdays and Saturdays. Those having red tag can be taken out on Mondays and Fridays. Owners of vehicles that have the green tag can use roads on Sundays and Wednesdays. Vehicles that are not tagged can be taken out on Thursdays. Police personnel had tagged as many as 30,000 vehicles for the initiative. However, the cops soon found out that some vehicle owners were removing the colours assigned to them using thinner and painting them over so that they could take the vehicles out all days. “We identified 110 vehicle owners who tried to cheat us and booked cases against them,” Kumar said. “We also seized the vehicles. The seized vehicles will be produced before the district courts and the owners can get them back only after paying a fine amount prescribed by the court. But it will be a long and tough process.” Police had launched the system for the sake of the motorists amid fears of Covid-19 community spread, the commissioner said. “But some people are not bothered. They just want to roam around.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/salem/idle-hands-spoil-salem-polices-traffic-rationing-measure/articleshow/75102204.cms||---
April 12, 2020||Mangaluru||Water from Swarna river to increase storage at Baje dam||Udupi: Udupi City Municipal Council (CMC) on Thursday started the work of pumping water from Swarna river at Sanebettu. The effort is aimed at eventually augmenting the storage level at Baje vented dam, the primary source of drinking water for the city. Three pumps have been deployed at Sanebettu, under Hiriyadka gram panchayat limits, to help water flow to Shiroor dam where two pumps are placed to facilitate passage to Baje dam. The CMC authorities had followed a similar course of action to tide over the water crisis last year. Thursday’s action followed a decision taken on March 31 to ensure potable drinking water in Udupi this summer, Udupi MLA K Raghupathi Bhat said. The decision was taken in consultation with Udupi CMC commissioner and its executive engineer. Bhat said this will meet the water requirements of the gram panchayats en route and provide quality supply to all the 35 wards under Udupi CMC. The civic has pressed into service divers to ensure nil seepage at Baje dam and has closed all 21 gates there. The engineering staff are maintaining a close watch on the water level and taking a call on water supply to residents, Bhat said. Mohan Raj, assistant executive engineer, Udupi CMC, said the water level at Shiroor dam has been increased by 4 feet by placing sandbags. “The bags were removed to facilitate flow of water downstream by gravitational means and residual water pumped so that it reached Baje dam,” he said. The water storage at Baje stood at 4.5m against the full level of 4.9m, he said, adding that the challenge is to make this water last till the onset of monsoon.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mangaluru/water-from-swarna-river-to-increase-storage-at-baje-dam/articleshow/75100147.cms||---
April 12, 2020||Thiruvananthapuram||MVD plans odd-even scheme in Kerala||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM: The odd or even scheme implemented in Delhi is likely to be replicated in the state. The scheme, based on the last digits of vehicle registration numbers, is among the guidelines proposed by the motor vehicles department to the government for easing of lockdown restrictions. The Covid-19 Public Transportation Protocol was submitted to K R Jyothilal, principal secretary, transport. The protocol includes suggestions, planning and duties and responsibilities of various government departments. It is proposed to restrict movement of vehicles by employing the odd-even scheme on alternative days. Also, people must carry identity cards in public space and wearing of masks should be made mandatory. It suggests restrictions on number of people on vehicles: No pillion riders are to be allowed on two-wheelers, only three can travel together in a private car and only one passenger in each seat will be allowed in other vehicles. Mandatory use of full-visor glass helmets and disallowing people with cough and cold from using public transport are among the other safety steps included in the protocol. Measures include crowd control and social distancing on public transport. Web-based database of passengers travelling in interstate buses and trains, manufacturing and distribution of reusable masks for conductors, auto and taxi drivers with support from Kerala StartUp Mission, disinfection of interstate vehicles at check posts with help from health department, distribution of masks and sanitizers for passengers, bed sheets, curtains and food will not be provided to passengers in buses, temporary ban on AC buses to prevent infection spread, safety instructions before travel have been also mooted. Those who refuse to follow instructions are to be slapped with hefty fines. After service, buses, autorickshaws and taxis are to be cleaned with soap and disinfected using quaternary ammonium compounds solution. In directions for buses ferrying school children, it says only one student should be allowed to sit in one seat and there should be no student standing. Awareness among school children and masks should be made part of the uniform. Rescheduling of office and school hours and timing of companies to restrict crowding on roads and increasing working hours by reducing number of working days are other suggestions put forward by MVD. “These are draft guidelines. After the lockdown there needs to be a system in place to control Covid-19 spread. The instructions such as entry of passengers in bus through back door and exist through front door should became a habit. People too join in by providing disinfection gateways in public places and bus stops,” said Rajeev Puthalath, joint transport commissioner.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/thiruvananthapuram/mvd-plans-odd-even-scheme-in-state/articleshow/75100865.cms||---
April 12, 2020||Vijayawada||Andhra Pradesh plans more sample collection centres for Covid-19||VISAKHAPATNAM: The state government has notified 11 more Covid-19 sample collection centres after the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) approved Truenat — a tuberculosis-testing machine — for conducting Covid-19 tests. The state already has 26 such centres in Andhra Pradesh Vaidya Vidhana Parishad hospitals, with two to three centres in each district. All districts, except Srikakulam and Vizianagaram which have not reported any positive cases of Covid-19, will get new sample collection centres. Sample data will be entered online by the hospital on the government portal before the sample is sent to a testing laboratory. Nodal officers at the centres will designate ENT specialists and other trained personnel and supporting staff for sample collection. The state has 240 Truenat centres. Each machine can test about 15 to 20 samples a day. The time taken for testing each sample through a Truenat machine is about an hour compared to six hours through the existing method of RT-PCR testing. The state has also placed an order to procure three lakh rapid diagnostic testing kits. These kits will be used for community surveillance in containment clusters and quarantine centres. There are at present seven testing laboratories in the state with a combined testing capacity of nearly 1,100 samples a day.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/ap-plans-more-sample-collection-centres/articleshow/75101545.cms||---
April 12, 2020||Vijayawada||Krishna likely to get another Covid-19 testing lab today||Vijayawada: Krishna district is likely to get another coronavirus screening laboratory from Sunday. District collector A Mohammed Imtiaz held a meet with Covid-19 district-level task force here on Saturday and directed them to increase the pace of screening people for coronavirus. “We are equipped to test around 200 samples per day. Samples from West Godavari, Guntur, and Prakasam districts were also being screened here initially. All other districts except West Godavari have their testing centres. The new testing centre will help us perform at least 350 tests a day,” he said. The district medical and health officer Dr Ramesh explained that the rapid testing kits and units have reached the Vijayawada Government Hospital and can test around 1,000 samples each day. Imtiaz directed the health wing authorities to arrange a notice board at hospitals displaying the number of PPE kits and N-95 masks available with them. Further, he directed municipalities across the district to continue spraying sodium hypochlorite and using bleaching powder, with the state government releasing around Rs 9 crore for such work. Imtiaz said that around 25,000 hand sanitisers have been made available to doctors, medical staff and sanitation workers across the district. Meanwhile, even as the first Covid-19 positive patient Guntur district has recovered and is set to be discharged from the hospital, the increase in number of cases has the district administration on their toes. On Saturday, Guntur collector Samuel Anand Kumar announced that a curfew was being imposed in the city on Sunday and people would not be allowed to come out of their homes even for essential commodities. The collector further announced that henceforth, the lockdown would be relaxed on alternate days and appealed to people to buy sufficient groceries for one week at a time. Anand Kumar said that there have been 14 new cases in the district on Saturday, taking the tally to 71. He addedthat 12 places had been identified as red zones and Section 144 is in force in the district. The collector said that wearing facial mask has been made mandatory while going outside and that a fine of Rs 1,000 would be levied. He also warned of invoking PD Act on those repeatedly violating lockdown norms. He also added that permissions would not be given for religious congregations of any kind.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/krishna-likely-to-get-another-covid-19-testing-lab-today/articleshow/75100878.cms||---
April 12, 2020||Dehradun||Two Jamaat members booked on ‘attempt to murder’ charges||Dehradun: Two residents of Laksar area were booked on Saturday on charges of attempt to murder for hiding facts related to their visit to Delhi and some cities of UP for Jamaat meetings. Both were taken into custody and sent to Roorkee for institutional quarantine. After the two instances, the number of cases of attempt to murder has gone up to six in the state, in which seven persons have been booked. The two Jamaat members are from Laksar area said that on January 15 this year, they had gone to attend a gathering at Delhi's Nizamuddin Markaz. From there, the two moved to Kanpur to attend another event. After spending 40 days in Kanpur, the two came to Ghaziabad and returned to their homes on March 20. Police said that the two were booked because despite several appeals, they had not come forward to reveal their travel history. After the matter came to police knowledge, the two were booked under sections 188 (Disobedience to order duly promulgated by public servant), 269 (Negligent act likely to spread infection of disease dangerous to life), 270 (Malignant act likely to spread infection of disease dangerous to life), 336 (Act endangering life or personal safety of others), 307 (attempt to murder) of the IPC and under relevant sections of Disaster Management Act. Besides, the Dehradun police was successful in tracing six Jamaat members, who were "missing". DG law and order Ashok Kumar told TOI, “We have made the best possible effort to find out each and every Jamaat members, who have either come to Uttarakhand or have gone from Uttarakhand to different parts of the country.” He pointed out that police have identified as many as 1,426 Jamaat members, who have either come to Uttarakhand or went out, from January 1, this year. “All of them have been quarantined. At least 797 Jamaat members who have come to Uttarakhand or travelled outside the state from March 1 have been kept in institutional quarantine and the remaining under home quarantine,” the senior police official added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/two-jamaat-members-booked-on-attempt-to-murder-charges/articleshow/75101567.cms||Kautilya Singh
April 12, 2020||Thiruvananthapuram||‘We have enough stock of medicines’||Thiruvananthapuram: There is no need to worry about availability of essential medicines in the state as Kerala Medical Service Corporation Ltd (KMSCL) has done enough homework to ensure stocks and put in place a crisis management plan in case of any eventuality, said Dr Mohammed Asheel, executive director of Kerala Social Security Mission. “Even at the onset of the coronavirus crisis, KMSCL planned and procured medicines needed for the state. In case of extreme situations, such as the lockdown continuing for several weeks and medicine procurement stalling, they will equip pharmaceutical companies here to make the medicines which are in short supply,” Dr Asheel said while attending the Facebook live organised by TOI on Saturday. Responding to questions from readers, he said the state is well equipped to face a worst-case scenario. “We have tentatively arranged over one lakh hospital beds and 5,600 ICU beds. We have prepared Plan A, B, C, D and E so that if there is a crisis, we may not have to think about options then.” Dr Asheel said while gearing up to fight Covid-19, the state government has taken special care of the needs of all socially vulnerable groups. “When minister K K Shailaja convened a meeting to discuss preparations, issues of senior citizens, differently abled persons and transgenders were specially addressed and plans to keep them hale and hearty during the crisis were introduced,” he said. On Sunday, Dr N Sulphi, vice president of IMA-Kerala, will join FB live on ‘The Times of India – Kerala’ page at 4pm.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/thiruvananthapuram/we-have-enough-stock-of-medicines/articleshow/75100882.cms||---
April 12, 2020||Jaipur||Gehlot demands ‘food-for-work’ scheme for poor, industry package||Jaipur: Chief minister Ashok Gehlot on Saturday told Prime Minister Narendra Modi that the Centre should come up with a ‘food-for-work’ scheme like the one launched by previous PM Atal Bihari Vajpayee during the 2002 drought to help the daily wage earners who were facing existential crisis during the lockdown. Gehlot said the scheme was a success and the central government’s huge reserve of foodgrain will come in handy for the scheme. Gehlot raised the demand during Prime Minister Modi’s video conference with the chief ministers on Saturday. He said the state government had given a one-time payment of Rs 2,500 to over 31 lakh poor people who were not getting benefits from any of the government schemes. He suggested that the central government should also come out with a similar programme for such people. The chief minister also advocated a package to the industry on the lines of the one announced by the then finance minister Pranab Mukherjee during the 2008 financial crisis.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/gehlot-demands-food-for-work-scheme-for-poor-industry-package/articleshow/75102551.cms||---
April 12, 2020||Hyderabad||Two Telugu NRIs in US lose nCov battle||VIJAYAWADA: Two Telugu Non-Resident Indians (NRIs) in the United States died on Friday after having contracted Covid-19. President of the Telugu Association of North America (TANA) Jai Talluri said both deceased were American citizens. In the first case, a 90-year-old man passed away at a hospital in Flint, Michigan, while in the second incident, a 64-year-old man passed away at an isolation ward. TANA had previously reached out to both patients in order to aid their families. Community leaders said that the 90-year-old was infected as a result of community transmission of the virus. Michigan is one of the worst-affected states in the US with a death toll of 1,281. “We are trying to create a database for Covid-19 affected Telugu NRIs across the US to make use of the information of patients who have tested negative and are voluntarily willing to provide their medical information for research purposes,” Talluri told STOI. While the number of Telugu NRIs affected by the virus in the US is yet to be ascertained, TANA members said they received calls from Telugus in the US claiming they were displaying symptoms of coronavirus. On March 20, a couple from Prakasam who reached New York to tend to their pregnant daughter contracted Covid-19 on the flight. “However, they displayed symptoms while spending time with their daughter and son-in-law. Eventually, all four of them were hospitalised where both parents have been kept in critical care,” Talluri said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/two-telugu-nris-in-us-lose-ncov-battle/articleshow/75104722.cms||Ujwal Bommakanti
April 12, 2020||Vijayawada||Two Telugu NRIs in US lose nCov battle||VIJAYAWADA: Two Telugu Non-Resident Indians (NRIs) in the United States died on Friday after having contracted Covid-19. President of the Telugu Association of North America (TANA) Jai Talluri said both deceased were American citizens. In the first case, a 90-year-old man passed away at a hospital in Flint, Michigan, while in the second incident, a 64-year-old man passed away at an isolation ward. TANA had previously reached out to both patients in order to aid their families. Community leaders said that the 90-year-old was infected as a result of community transmission of the virus. Michigan is one of the worst-affected states in the US with a death toll of 1,281. “We are trying to create a database for Covid-19 affected Telugu NRIs across the US to make use of the information of patients who have tested negative and are voluntarily willing to provide their medical information for research purposes,” Talluri told STOI. While the number of Telugu NRIs affected by the virus in the US is yet to be ascertained, TANA members said they received calls from Telugus in the US claiming they were displaying symptoms of coronavirus. On March 20, a couple from Prakasam who reached New York to tend to their pregnant daughter contracted Covid-19 on the flight. “However, they displayed symptoms while spending time with their daughter and son-in-law. Eventually, all four of them were hospitalised where both parents have been kept in critical care,” Talluri said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/two-telugu-nris-in-us-lose-ncov-battle/articleshow/75101577.cms||Ujwal Bommakanti
April 12, 2020||Vadodara||Gujarat: Under lockdown, Dahod turns into ‘naagin nagari’||VADODARA: When in Dahod, watch your step literally with the town hissing on the streets. Twenty-five snakes were rescued in 24 hours, taking even the town’s wildlife experts by surprise. According to the rescuers, the snakes, which were rescued between April 8 and April 9, included 16 cobras. Experts do not rule out the possibility that the reptiles may have ventured into the town taking advantage of the lockdown! “Dahod sees a rise in snake sighting during the hot summers, but this is unprecedented. Such a large number of snakes have never been rescued from the town even during monsoon,” said Pratik Jain, a wildlife enthusiast from Dahod. Jain said that the snakes are very sensitive to vibrations and smell. “They may have noticed that there was negligible movement around them and came towards the town when they moved out due to the heat,” he said. One of the snakes had even ventured into the general ward of a gynaecology hospital! The Dahod district administration has given permission to some wildlife enthusiasts to work with the forest department for wildlife rescue and related work. Jain said that various groups had nominated persons for the task and had been issued passes to attend rescue calls or assist forest officials.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/dahod-turns-into-naagin-nagari/articleshow/75101728.cms||---
April 12, 2020||Vijayawada||Political slugfest starts over SEC’s removal||VIJAYAWADA: The ordinance brought in by the state government which abruptly ended the service of incumbent state  commissioner Nimmagadda Ramesh Kumar has sparked off a political slugfest. Opposition parties have launched an attack on chief minister Y S Jaganmohan Reddy, accusing him of resorting to vendetta politics. The TDP alleged the decision to remove Ramesh Kumar was a result of “Jagan’s personal vengeance”. “While the whole world is fighting with Covid-19, the chief minister is busy in taking vengeance against the officers, who followed the rules instead of his dictum,” said former minister K Atchennaidu. Taking a dig at the statements given by the ministers that even opposition leader N Chandrababu Naidu should undergo quarantine for 14 days if he comes to the state from Hyderabad, Atchennaidu asked how did the state government allow Justice V Kanagaraj, who is from Tamil Nadu and is now settled in New Delhi, which are among the worst affected states with Covid-19, to enter AP. He also wanted the new SEC to undergo a 14-day quarantine period. BJP state president Kanna Lakshminarayana wrote to the central election commission (CEC) and to governor Biswabhushan Harichandan, alleging the state government issued the ordinance to take vengeance on the incumbent state election commissioner, who took the decision to postpone the election process in view of the Covid-19 pandemic. Hitting back at the opposition, the YSRC said opposition parties do not want a Dalit and expert in judiciary to be appointed as SEC. Ambati Rambabu, official spokesperson of YSRC, said the statements by TDP chief Chandrababu Naidu indicate he does not want a Dalit intellectual to be appointed as SEC.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/political-slugfest-starts-over-secs-removal/articleshow/75101608.cms||---
April 12, 2020||Kozhikode||Kozhikode: Police step up inspection of ambulances after misuse||KOZHIKODE: City police, here, have started inspection of ambulances following the impounding of an ambulance which was misused for transportation purpose. The police have started inspection at Vengalam-Ramanattukara National Highway Bypass to avoid the misuse of ambulances for transporting persons during the lockdown period. The police have decided to check ambulances without delaying its movement. Besides, all vehicles including goods carriages will be inspected by the city police. An ambulance based in Fort Kochi was blocked by the Police at Elathur on Friday following a tip off that the vehicle was being misused for transportation purpose. The police also found seven persons along with the driver and helper of the vehicle during the inspection. The vehicle which we impounded was covered with curtains, said an official with the city police. Usually ambulances do not use curtains and the police can inspect the vehicle from outside, said the official. The police decided to inspect ambulances as the vehicle managed to travel all the way from Kochi to Kozhikode with seven persons making use of the relaxation given to ambulances. The misuse came to light as the police received a tip off about the incident. All the passengers in the ambulance were on their way to Kannur. According to police, five of them boarded the vehicle from Kochi and two from Feroke in Kozhikode. The police also arrested Aswin from Vemballur and Faris from Pattambi on the charges of misusing ambulance. The driver of the vehicle admitted to the police that the secret operation of the ambulance was planned and coordinated by the owner of the vehicle. All seven passengers in the vehicle were shifted to a corona care centre in Kozhikode after medical examination. The police have booked the accused under section 5 of Epidemic Disease Ordinance, for material alteration under Motor Vehicle Act and under different sections of IPC. The police will also book the owner of the vehicle after collecting more details for his involvement. The Fort Kochi Police will probe the role of the ambulance owner in the crime. According to police, the owner of the vehicle operates 15 ambulances in Kochi. The vehicle was altered for transportation purpose and we are probing into whether they had previously used the vehicle for transportation purpose, said K K Biju, station house officer of Elathur.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kozhikode/police-step-up-inspection-of-ambulances-after-misuse/articleshow/75100893.cms||---
April 12, 2020||Nagpur||Lockdown benefit: Country breathing cleaner air||Nagpur: While various states have announced extending the lockdown till April 30, the bright side of it is that citizens will be breathing much cleaner air. Latest analysis done by environment organization Climate Trends reveals that many cities in the country saw an improvement in air quality during the lockdown. The analysis of air pollution levels shows that out of 101 cities, 35 recorded ‘good’ air quality on the fourth day of nationwide curfew. The analysis claimed these levels were unprecedented and have not been since the Air Quality Index (AQI) was launched in 2014. Moreover, New Delhi recorded its best ever AQI of 45 on March 26 which was the first ‘good’ air quality day in the capital since August 18 last year and only the third in more than three years. Analysis of System of Air Quality and Weather Forecasting and Research (SAFAR) data brought to the fore that the near-complete stoppage of daily traffic has led to drastic fall in the levels of particulate matter (PM) 2.5. The pollutant’s levels dropped by 62% in Delhi, 45% in Mumbai, 31% in Pune and 57% in Ahmedabad post April 6. However, the biggest impact has been on the levels nitrogen dioxide which is formed from the burning of coal and vehicular emissions. The high presence of pollutant can increase the risk of respiratory ailments. “In Pune, NOx pollution has reduced by 62% in the week starting April 6, in Mumbai by 60%, in Delhi by 50% and in Ahmedabad by 32%,” the analysis stated. It further highlighted that in 38 monitoring stations in Delhi, NOx levels dropped drastically, except in Jehangirpuri which recorded highest NOx levels in the capital at an avg of 77.63 on the third day of the lockdown, indicating the pollutant’s other sources apart from vehicles. It’s not just the cities that are breathing easy but also industrial clusters in Gujarat like Vapi, Ankaleshwar and Vatva have also reported cleaner air during the lockdown. Vapi, ranked as the most polluted industrial cluster on the Central Pollution Control Board’s (CPCB) Comprehensive Environmental Pollution Index (CEPI), recorded a 79.7% drop in sulphur dioxide (SO2) levels, one of the key emissions from coal-fired thermal power plants. “The air quality index in Vapi dropped to 100 from 313 on March 19,” the analysis added. Stating that a nationwide lockdown should not be needed to achieve improved air quality, the analysis suggested some mitigation measures for policy-makers. “Monitoring data proves that shut down of local sources from activities like transport, construction and industries have reduced PM2.5, PM10 and NOx levels, but background pollution levels remain even amidst the complete halt to the economy. The existing way of producing energy and economic activity have to transform towards sustainable and clean energy systems if India is to experience clean air in future,” it stated. Further adding that Indian power grid system has been grossly underestimated, the analysis stated, “With the nine minutes of solidarity event of April 9, it is clear the grid system is flexible enough to handle a greater percentage of variable solar and wind energy. Efforts need to be made to implement learnings from this event.” It added that vehicles on the road need to be zero emission vehicles for them to “stop being a health hazard”.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/lockdown-benefit-country-breathing-cleaner-air/articleshow/75102222.cms||Manka Behl
April 12, 2020||Nagpur||2 UGC panels to study Covid-19 impact on exams, academic calendar||Nagpur: The University Grants Commission (UGC) has constituted two expert panels to study the impact of coronavirus pandemic on the academic calendar of universities and how to come out of the unprecedented crisis. The first panel under former member RC Kuhad (Central University of Haryana vice chancellor) would work under the guidance of UGC chairman and would submit its report before April 13. The second panel under IGNOU VC Nageshwar Rao would explore methodology to integrate and enhance various efforts for online education, particularly when all educational institutions are closed as a precautionary measure due to Covid-19. It will also explore methodology to conduct online examinations, ensuring credibility and transparency. This panel was told to submit a report by April 17. Both chairmen were granted consent to co-opt other members if required. The UGC communiqué by secretary Rajesh Jain said prevention of spread of Covid-19 is a priority for one and all, and it had taken several measures to prevent the pandemic condition arising out of it. “Our country and the world are passing through unprecedented challenging times due to outbreak and nationwide lockdown. UGC has proactively taken many initiatives to ensure that academia is to the extent possible minimally affected,” Jain said. The secretary suggested various measures, including the continuity in teaching-learning process by providing study material and also use of other online and e-learning methodologies to avoid academic loss of students. “In the current scenario, proper planning is needed to avoid any delay in the conduct of examinations and also the start of academic session 2020-21,” he said. Jain added that in order to promote effective utilization of technology and in pursuance with the communication received from the MHRD’s Department of Higher Education secretary, UGC constituted the two expert committees.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/2-ugc-panels-to-study-covid-19-impact-on-exams-academic-calendar/articleshow/75102218.cms||Vaibhav Ganjapure
April 12, 2020||Jaipur||139 more positivecases; state’s totalgoes up to 700||Jaipur: Rajasthan saw a new high on Saturday with 139 persons testing positive for Covid-19 taking the total number of infections in the state to 700. One 62-year-old man, a resident of Surajpole area in the Walled City, who suffered from ischemic heart disease died in Jaipur on Friday a day prior to his Covid-19 test report which declared him positive. With this the state has registered nine deaths from the novel coronavirus: three from Jaipur, two from Bhilwara and one each in Jodhpur, Bhilwara, Kota and Alwar. Of 139 cases, Jaipur alone had 80 positive cases which takes city’s total to 301. “One patient from C-Scheme admitted at Fortis Hospital with no contact and travel history was found positive bringing city’s count to 80,” said an official.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/139-more-positivecases-states-totalgoes-up-to-700/articleshow/75102554.cms||Ashish Mehta
April 12, 2020||Bareilly||Budaun DM orders NSA against two village pradhans for defying administration||BAREILLY: Budaun district magistrate on Saturday ordered slapping of the National Security Act (NSA) against pradhans of two villages for allegedly not cooperating with the district administration in containing the spread of novel coronavirus and sharing misleading information. The DM also seized their powers. The action has been ordered against the pradhans of Bhawanipur Khalli and Bhawanipur Kheru villages, which are situated under Sahaswan sub-division of Budaun district. DM Kumar Prashant said, “Sahaswan area in Budaun was declared a hotspot after the first case of Covid-19 was reported here on Monday. The entire area was sanitised, too. However, the village heads of Bhawanipur Khalli and Bhawanipur Kheru did not make quarantine facilities in their respective areas despite the district administration’s order. When we were converting a school into a quarantine centre, they created hindrance by asking their supporters to pelt stones here. Besides, they did not share information about migrant workers who returned to their villages from other districts or states. They shared misleading information with the district administration.” “I have seized the power of the two village heads and the charges of both Bhawanipur Khalli and Bhawanipur Kheru villages have been handed over to their respective village secretaries. Besides, I have asked police to register an FIR against the duo under relevant sections of the Indian Penal Code (IPC) and the Epidemic Act. I have also ordered slapping of the NSA against both village heads,” the DM added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/budaun-dm-orders-nsa-against-two-village-pradhans-for-defying-administration/articleshow/75101634.cms||Priyangi Agarwal
April 12, 2020||Vijayawada||Deputy CM accuses Tablighi of Covid-19, licking plates, then withdraws statement||Tirupati: Deputy chief minister K Narayanaswamy on Saturday accused the Tablighi Jamaat of spreading coronavirus but later retracted his statement as his video blaming the principal minority community went viral on social media. Narayanaswamy’s statement comes a week after chief minister YS Jaganmohan Reddy appealed to people not to communalise the coronavirus issue. “I am withdrawing my comments made earlier in the day. My intention was not to hurt the sentiments of people of any particular faith,” he told TOI. Narayanaswamy, who chaired a review meeting with excise department officials at the sub-collector’s office in Tirupati on Saturday, accused the Tablighi Jamaat of spreading the novel coronavirus by “licking spoons and plates”. The deputy chief minister may have fallen to a fake video, which was widely circulated on social media, showing a group of Muslims eating leftover food from spoons and plates. The video was debunked as fake and referred to the practice of some people in Bohra community against wastage of food. Stating that he was not averse to Muslims, Narayanaswamy said AP would have only a few coronavirus positive cases had the virus not spread to the state by people attending the Tablighi meeting in Delhi. “But everything happened after they went to Delhi, attended the function and came back to the state. They spit around, did not wash their plates and spoons. They licked the spoons to clean them. Did all kinds of things and came back to the state and left it here (sic),” he said. He also alleged that “Muslims, who are testing positive for Covid-19, are not cooperating with doctors at hospitals. They are also not adhering to social distancing norms either at hospitals or outside”. “I’m not against Muslim minorities. They are also Indians, who were born on this very land but not in Dubai or Pakistan. My only concern is that they should at least mend their ways now and save their own lives which are at stake,” he said. Earlier, Jagan had urged people not to communalise the virus. “It is unfortunate that the disease has spread from the congregation in which several spiritual delegates from some foreign countries too participated. Some of those foreigners had coronavirus and it got transmitted to our people. But we should not attribute it (the disease spread) to any religion or caste and treat those people as deliberate wrongdoers,” the CM had appealed. When contacted, Narayanaswamy told STOI his concern is that Muslims should stay safe by adopting social distancing guidelines. “They should cooperate with the state government and adhere to doctors’ advice,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/deputy-cm-accuses-tablighi-of-covid-19-licking-plates-then-withdraws-statement/articleshow/75101623.cms||---
April 12, 2020||Nagpur||Ordnance factories to test coveralls||Nagpur: The ordnance factories at Kanpur and Avadi near Chennai that make small arms and tanks respectively have been granted accreditation by the National Accreditation Board for Testing and Calibration Laboratories (NABL) for carrying out the blood penetration resistance test for coveralls, being made to provide protection against Covid-19 infection. The coveralls are being supplied to doctors and others who need to get close to the patients. The OFB was roped in by the government to make sanitizers, masks and coveralls to tackle the coronavirus crisis. The factories which now have got accrediton for carrying out the tests will be the second such set up in the country, said a senior official in the ordnance factory board (OFB). The official said there are plans to start a testing facility at the ordnance factory Ambernath near Mumbai which will cover the western region. The blood resistance test checks whether the coverall can provide protection from the patient’s blood from contacting the other person’s body.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/ordnance-factories-to-test-coveralls/articleshow/75102225.cms||Shishir Arya
April 12, 2020||Nagpur||Man offers samples, tests positive, goes into isolation & prevents virus spread in Chandrapur||Nagpur: After a lean day on Friday, Vidarbha recorded three positive cases of Covid-19 on Saturday. Two are of Nagpur and the third of Amravati. With this, the total number of positive cases in Vidarbha touched 75. It includes three deaths. The best news of the day is how a man insisting that he be tested may have prevented spread of the virus in his hometown of Chandrapur district which has no positive cases as of now. After the wife of the Chandrapur man tested positive on Saturday, TOI’s investigations showed that on April 6 the man had volunteered to get himself tested at the MLA hostel where the couple was in institutional quarantine on return from abroad. The reports showed that he was positive. Immediately, samples of his wife and three other couples along with who he had gone to Indonesia on a Tablighi Jamaat were taken and tested. Results of the three other couples were negative. The 39-year-old real estate businessman from Chandrapur told TOI that all of them landed in Nagpur airport on March 24 following which they were immediately quarantined at MLA Hostel. “We had no symptoms so our swab samples were not taken on checking in. On April 3, I saw doctors taking samples at MLA Hostel (13th day since his return from Indonesia and 11th day at MLA hostel) and gave mine too. I was told they were positive on April 6.” His wife and the three couples were taken to GMCH on the same day. Samples were taken on April 8 (18th day since they came back from Indonesia and 16th day in institutional quarantine). Reports of his 32-year-old wife landed on Saturday, the 21st day since the four couple returned back from Indonesia and 19th day in institutional quarantine. The incubation period of Covid-19 is considered as 14 days. After landing in New Delhi, “we went to Nizamuddin Markaz and stayed there till March 24,” the Chandrapur man told TOI. The Markaz is now the epicentre of many Covid-19 cases in the country. Municipal commissioner Tukaram Mundhe said, “We ask discharged positive persons to observe home quarantine for 14 more days. It is to contain further spread.” The second patient who tested positive in Nagpur is a 53-year-old male, a nephew of the Satranjipura man who died on April 4 and tested positive on April 6. Six family members of the deceased have already tested positive. His samples were inconclusive on Friday and re-tested at GMCH laboratory. The 67-year-old woman who tested positive in Amravati on Saturday is the mother of the 45-year-old deceased whose swab samples were tested positive on April 4. “She had tested negative earlier but her sample was collected on Thursday looking at her age and symptoms, which tested positive,” said Amravati district collector Shailesh Naval. The woman is already in the isolation ward along with other family members of the deceased. The Hathipura locality, where the family resides, and the adjoining Sakkarsath, home to wholesale grain and grocery market, has been put in the containment zone. Naval added that the 59-year-old Sufiya Nagar resident, who died in the isolation ward on April 6, had tested negative along with his six contacts, on Saturday. 17 Delhi returnees, who were in institutional quarantine at Walgaon, also tested negative along with 18 others housed there. In Yavatmal, the test result of a 56-year-old man of Karanjikhed village in Mahagaon tehsil turned negative. He died at the GMCH on Friday night of severe acute respiratory illness and pneumonia following which his swab sample was tested in Nagpur. Doctors and the district administration heaved a sigh of relief at this. His body will now be handed over to his family for the last rites. Meanwhile, one patient out of the eight positives in Yavatmal developed serious respiratory symptoms on Saturday. He has been put on ventilator. Though his condition is stable, he is critical, said doctors at Yavatmal GMCH. The patient is suffering from renal problems. Chandrapur, Bhandara and Wardha have no Covid-19 patients. The positive patient from Gondia will be discharged on Sunday. With this, four districts in Vidarbha will not have a single patient of Covid-19.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/man-offers-samples-tests-positive-goes-into-isolation-prevents-virus-spread-in-chandrapur/articleshow/75102227.cms||Anjaya Anparthi
April 12, 2020||Hyderabad||Hyderabad: Self help group workers stitch masks with a mission||SECUNDERABAD: The women self help groups (SHGs) are on a mission to stitch masks for the sanitation workers of the Secunderabad Cantonment Board (SCB). Making masks is completely new but the women relied on YouTube to perfect this art. In the wake of the fast spreading coronavirus and the lockdown, mask became a premium product for many. After realising the severe shortage of face masks, SHGs working under the ‘Mission for Elimination of Poverty in Municipal Areas’ (MEPMA) in SCB, came forward to produce face masks that would protect the sanitation workers from being exposed to the deadly virus. On an average, 500 masks are being produced by these women. To accelerate the production, a separate room has been allotted on the rear side of the SCB main office here. “Till recently, these women SHG groups used to stitch hundreds of cloth bags as SCB is strictly promoting the ban on single-use plastic. After lockdown was announced we stopped stitching them as campaign on usage of cloth bags was put on hold,” said MEPMA, SCB in-charge, Prakash. “However, on the advice of SCB chief executive officer, SVR Chandra Sekar, we have selected few SHG groups to make these masks. We have distributed these masks to over 1,000 sanitary workers, who are sweeping roads and attending under-ground drainage (UGD) complaints in the Cantonment area. The CEO is according top priority to protect health of these sanitation workers, who are doing a crucial job at this critical juncture,” added Prakash. The official also said that the proposal to distribute these masks to common people is under consideration.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/shg-workers-stitch-masks-with-a-mission/articleshow/75102558.cms||Sunil Mungara
April 12, 2020||Mangaluru||KMC interns turn to Modi as last resort to get out of Malaysia||Mangaluru: The nightmare continues for medical students Mahima Gupta and Navin Mallya of Kasturba Medical College, Mangaluru, who are stuck in Malaysia since March 17, due to the stopping of international flights. The former has turned to Prime Minister Narendra Modi for help. In a moving tweet to the Prime Minister, Mahima, on Saturday, requested him to help the 400-odd Indians, tourists, students and others, who are stranded in Malaysia, before the situation worsens there. They landed in Malaysia on March 12, for a month-long surgery internship at International Medical University. Things took a turn for the worse for Mahima, Navin and the rest of the Indians there, five days later, due to the sudden travel advisory ban that the government issued. In the interim, Air Asia has flown empty flights from Malaysia to India, to ferry Malaysians stranded in India, back to that country, and two flights for stranded Indians in transit at Kuala Lumpur International Airport. They are in Nilai, which is categorised as a red zone, due to many Covid-19 cases. Mahima and Navin’s worries are getting worse daily. “In the past 23 days, in the spirit of supporting our country in fighting this pandemic, we have been patient in the hope that following this lockdown, some help will come for us. Meanwhile, we have been mailing and tweeting to all the authorities, about our situation,” she said. Explaining the travails that she and the rest of the Indians stranded in Malaysia are facing, Mahima urged the Prime Minister to have mercy on them and their families, who are worried sick back home. “I do not have to reiterate the need for us all to be together in this time, as all the measures taken by you have emphasised it. When the whole of India is fighting this deadly virus together, our families in India and us stranded in Malaysia are going through this mental trauma for almost a month,” she said. Noting that she completely supported the Prime Minister in his decision of extending the lockdown if it was in the national interest, Mahima urged him to send a flight to Malaysia to bring them home, so that they could join him in this fight against the coronavirus, not only as a fellow citizens, but also as doctors. Mahima signed off the letter with an assurance to comply with all the quarantine measures that are necessary to be taken by those returning from abroad, and pledged to serve the country to fight this pandemic.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mangaluru/kmc-interns-turn-to-modi-as-last-resort-to-get-out-of-malaysia/articleshow/75100931.cms||Jaideep Shenoy
April 12, 2020||Nagpur||Muslims face social boycott, business too hit in Buldhana||Nagpur: With 17 positive cases of Covid-19, Buldhana is the second most-affected district of Vidarbha. As 16 of the 17 patients are Muslims, this has led to the community facing social boycott, said social and political activists here. Social media messages have been doing rounds urging people to keep members of the community away and not buy essential items from shops owned by Muslims. A medical practitioner from Raipur village in the district has also been booked for spreading hate messages. There are six cases that are linked with the Tablighi Jamaat. Yet, all others are being blamed too, said social activists from both Hindu and Muslim communities. Shabana Parveen, whose husband is a state government employee, alleged that her daughter who is seven months pregnant was turned back from three different sonography centres. “Finally, it appeared that it was because of our religion. At the third hospital, I was asked to come on April 30. First they took her in, but later my daughters and others from our community were simply asked to go,” said Parveen. The doctor had asked to get the sonography done in a day, added the father. A senior police officer in the district admitted that there has been discrimination against members of the community. A departmental store has simply refused entry to people from Muslim-dominated localities like Iqbal Chowk and Mirza Nagar. “We cannot intervene as they have a right to restrict entry to the premises the company owns,” said an officer, requesting anonymity. Ranjit Rajput, a newspaper publisher from Buldhana, said the discrimination was evident. “Messages were doing rounds on social media asking people to avoid buying from Muslims’ shops,” he said. Israr Deshmukh, a YouTuber and a social activist, said a group of volunteers had to face tough time to even get permission from the district administration to distribute food packets to the needy. “We had taken up the matter with police when the officers visited our locality after the positive cases were reported,” he said. Even as the Muslim areas have been sealed, initially local shopkeepers were denied supplies by the wholesalers, said a source. Dr Mobin Khan, a medical practitioner, said one of his patients was insulted while passing through a locality and was asked to leave the place as fast as she could. District collector Suman Chandra said the administration has not come across any such case of discrimination. A vigil is also being maintained to prevent any attempts to create social disharmony. Superintendent of police Dilip Bhujbal said no written complaint has been filed till now. But he confirmed that the doctor in Raipur village was booked. Local advocate WB Qureshi has written to the chief minister, district collector and divisional commissioner that orders should be issued against releasing the patients’ names. Rather, they can be given identification numbers as revealing names is helping a certain elements to create disturbance.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/muslims-face-social-boycott-business-too-hit-in-buldhana/articleshow/75102232.cms||Shishir Arya
April 12, 2020||Jaipur||Govt scheme to help folk artistes hit by lockdown||Jaipur: The state’s department of art, literature and culture has come out with a unique initiative under the ‘Chief Minister Folk Artist Promotion Scheme’ to help the folk artistes from rural areas facing difficulties due to the lockdown. Under the scheme, the government would provide financial assistance to them as they are not able to perform and earn a living. All they have to do is send a 15-20-minute video of their performance captured on a mobile phone and send it to the nodal agency. Ravindra Manch in Jaipur has been made the nodal agency, which will select the eligible artistes. Those who are selected will be given a one-time grant of Rs 2,500.B D Kalla, minister for arts, literature and culture, said, there are many such folk artistes in the rural areas of the state, who make a living by propagating the beauty of Rajasthani folk arts. “This unique scheme has been prepared by the department of art and culture to give possible help and respect to the artistes — who have been contributing to keeping the folk culture and art of the state alive — to survive in this difficult time,” said Kalla.The minister said that this scheme is for those artistes of Rajasthan, who live in rural areas and depend entirely on performing folk art for their livelihood. For this scheme, the address entered in the Aadhaar card of the artistes will be the basis for deciding the rural area. Artistes eligible for the scheme will have to select any of Rajasthan’s performing folk arts, folk musical instruments, solo dance, solo folk singing, for their entries.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/govt-scheme-to-help-folk-artistes-hit-by-lockdown/articleshow/75102559.cms||---
April 12, 2020||Hubballi||Liquor store owner in Hubballi files plaint after fake post on home delivery||Hubballi: Fraudsters are out to make the most of Covid-19 lockdown which has made days tougher for tipplers. Some miscreants created a fake page on social media in the name of a liquor store and offered home delivery of alcohol. After wide circulation of the fake post, the real owner of the shop located on Gokul Road approached police on Saturday, seeking action against the miscreants. On the fake page, prospective customers were asked to pay in advance through the digital payment mode. Police said many people might have fallen prey to the fraud. Akshay Pawar, owner of Tej Liquors, said he was shocked to find the fake page in the name of his store. He said the phone number mentioned in the social media post was also fake. “Police have promised action against those who created this fake page,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hubballi/liquor-store-owner-in-hubballi-files-plaint-after-fake-post-on-home-delivery/articleshow/75100813.cms||---
April 12, 2020||Vadodara||Gujarat: Nine arrested for pelting stones at cops||VADODARA: The police have arrested nine persons in connection with stone pelting that occurred in Panigate area on Friday night. The accused were arrested on Saturday for rioting and attacking the policemen. Senior police officials said that such acts by any citizen won’t be tolerated. The incident occurred when the cops were barricading a lane in Panigate and blocking its entry and exit as a part of the exercise under lockdown. Some locals got upset over blocking entry to their lane in the minority community dominated area. A group of locals came out and argued with the cops over the blockage that was being done to ensure that locals don't flout the lockdown. Some of them pelted some stones at the cops and fled. No one was injured in the incident.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/nine-arrested-for-pelting-stones-at-cops/articleshow/75101742.cms||---
April 12, 2020||Nagpur||Cops to act tough against hate, fake msgs on social media||Nagpur: Joint CP Ravindra Kadam, in his fresh order on Saturday to enforce the extended lockdown till April 30, issued a strongly worded warning to social media users, especially administrators of the different groups, against hate messages, fake news or rumours. The order issued under Section 144 of Criminal procedure code and covering various platforms of social media, came shortly after chief minister Uddhav Thackeray declared extension of the lockdown. Kadam has advised people against posting messages creating animosity against other communities, spreading rumours, videos, memes, graphics, fake news or messages falsely ridiculing the government machineries fighting the Covid-19 outbreak. Action under Indian Penal Code (IPC) 188 will be taken for violating the order. Maharashtra cyber security cell, under IG Brijesh Singh, has already registered 172 cases across the state against social media users, including 87 over hate speech targeting different communities. SP Balsingh Rajput has informed that 32 persons have been arrested from different parts of the state and another 108 have been identified. Around 61 cases were registered for spreading rumours related to corona and another 24 for misinformation. The state cyber cell has also issued notices to different social media platforms regarding their possible misuse by mischief mongers in the backdrop of rising communal rift in the state over the spread of Covid-19. So far, city police have registered five offences of cyber crime against fake news, audio clips and hate messages. Another two have been registered by rural police. City police continue to take action against people not using masks while stepping out of their home. Senior inspector Jayesh Bhandarkar of Tehsil police station said that the action has resulted into decrease in number of such violators. “Only three persons were found not wearing masks,” the PI said. “Earlier, we took action against people not wearing masks even when they were going out for essential services. People have realized that they could be penalized and hence non-mask users are lesser than in the past,” said Bhandarkar. MIDC police too have taken action against one non-mask user. Bhandarkar also led a route march of 62 personnel from Gandhi Chowk to Bhavsar chowk, covering a distance of four-and-half kilometres. City police, in it’s regular course of action, registered offence against 348 persons including 85 detainees who were found loitering on roads without police permission. The traffic police have also seized 57 vehicles.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/cops-to-act-tough-against-hate-fake-msgs-on-social-media/articleshow/75102235.cms||Soumitra Bose
April 12, 2020||Jaipur||After 2 cops test positive, officers shifted to hotels||Jaipur: After two police personnel tested positive for coronavirus in Ramganj and Manak Chowk police station areas, the police administration has decided that the cops on duty will stay in hotels which have been booked for them. Officials have taken the decision to prevent further spread of the virus among the cops. A constable at Manak Chowk police station was found Covid-19 positive while a head constable of Ramganj police station was found infected on Saturday. Ajal Pal Lamba, additional commissioner of police, said, “the hotels or guesthouses which are suitable for the stay of police personnel have been booked. Facilities close to the police stations have been chosen.” According to the officials, the move will ensure that physical and social distancing is maintained among the cops. “The personnel who are staying in barracks have been asked to shift to the hotels. We realized that staying in the barracks was not feasible as it did not adhere to the parameters of social distancing. Now, we have very few personnel staying in the barracks,” added the official. This facility has been provided to all the police stations while it was started for Manak Chowk police station staff on Friday. Moreover, several personnel from Ramganj police station were also shifted to hotels on Saturday. Jaipur police has deployed 4,500 personnel in the Walled City which is under strict curfew. The medical teams are carrying out door-to-door screening after more than 90 positive cases of coronavirus emerged from the area. Additionally, two police personnel are escorting every medical team which is engaged in screening. The cops are ensuring that residents get home delivery of essential goods.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/after-2-cops-test-positive-officers-shifted-to-hotels/articleshow/75102563.cms||---
April 12, 2020||Mysuru||People flouting claim to be infected to escape police action||Mysuru: Three lockdown flouters created a scare at one of the police checkpoints in Mandya by falsely claiming they were Covid-19 patients, sending the cops into panic and the state public health workers into a tizzy. Krishnarajpet police arrested Mahesh, Abhi alias Abhishek and Srinivas alias Appu — all in their twenties — on Wednesday for creating panic in the society. The auto rickshaw the youths were travelling in late night was stopped by the cops deployed near Jockey Factory in Tendekere. On being asked why they were out late night despite the restrictions, they claimed they were under quarantine and threatened to infect the cops if they attempted to arrest them. Soon after, they fled the scene, said police. The three youths were later traced to Bhallekere village under Bhukanakere Hobli, around 8km from Krishnarajpet, with the help of the Krishnarajpet taluk tahsildhar M Shivamurthy and were arrested. An FIR has been filed against the youths, said police. “During interrogation, the youths have said that they had falsely claimed to be infected to escape from the police at the checkpost,” said the tahsildhar. “Rumours about people from other districts spreading virus infection in the taluk is making rounds. Strict action will be taken against rumour mongers spreading such misleading information. Public should support the district administration to contain the spread of Covid-19,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mysuru/people-flouting-claim-to-be-infected-to-escape-police-action/articleshow/75100394.cms||Lakshmikantha BK
April 12, 2020||Hyderabad||Former HC judge V Kanagaraj made Andhra poll panel chief||VIJAYAWADA: A day after removing Andhra Pradesh election commissioner (SEC) Nimmagadda Ramesh Kumar through an ordinance, the state government on Saturday appointed V Kanagaraj, a retired judge of Madras high court, as the new SEC. The appointment of the new SEC was not disclosed till he assumed office on Saturday morning. The ordinance amending the Andhra Pradesh Panchayat Raj Act of 1994 made changes to the eligibility and term of the SEC. According to the amended rules, the tenure of the SEC is now three years, down from five years. The term can be extended by another three years. The state government changed the eligibility criteria for holding the post. It is now reserved for a person who had held the post of a judge in a high court. On Saturday, the government issued GO 619 notifying the appointment of Justice V Kanagaraj as SEC by governor Biswabhushan Harichandan on the recommendation of the state government. Justice Kanagaraj assumed the office of SEC on Saturday morning. He called upon the governor after taking charge and held a review meet with his office staff on the ongoing election process. The 75-year-old is an alumni of Madras Loyola College and graduated in law from Madras Law College. He enrolled as a lawyer in Madras bar council in 1973 and started practising as a member of Salem bar association. Later, he worked on the panel as senior counsel for Haryana in the Supreme Court and Delhi high court. Justice Kanagaraj is a life member of the Society of International Centre for Alternative Disputes Resolution (ICDAR) and conducted many arbitration proceedings. He was elevated as judge of Madras high court in 1997. As a judge of the high court, he delivered a record number of 69,000 judgements, including many landmark judgements of national importance in matters of education with socio-economic impact, social justice with special reference to women and children, weaker sections and minorities. After retiring from the high court,, he resumed his law practice in the Supreme Court and settled with his family in New Delhi.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/former-hc-judge-made-andhra-poll-panel-chief/articleshow/75102239.cms||---
April 12, 2020||Mangaluru||Don’t designate any more hospitals for patients from Kerala: Youth Congress||Mangaluru: Dakshina Kannada district Youth Congress president Mithun M Rai has appealed to the district administration not to dedicate any more hospitals in Mangaluru for medical emergency cases from Kerala. He said people from rural areas of Dakshina Kannada will be deprived of treatment if more hospitals in Mangaluru are dedicated to patients from Kerala. “The district administration has already made KS Hegde Medical College Hospital as the designated hospital to admit medical emergency cases that arrive via the Talapady border from Kerala. Meanwhile, patients from Belthangady, Sullia, Kadaba, Puttur, Bantwal, Moodbidri and Mangaluru have been depending on hospitals in Mangaluru for medical emergencies. People from the district will face difficulties if the district administration designates more private hospitals for patients from Kerala. The possibility of Covid-19 spreading cannot be ruled out due to patients coming to KS Hegde Medical College Hospital for treatment from Kasaragod. It may also affect the health of doctors and staff working in our private hospitals,” Rai said, and warned that the Young Congress will stage protests if the district administration changes its decision. He also urged the district administration to monitor that people are adhering to home quarantine strictly, with the help of Asha workers. “The disease spread fast in Kasaragod district of Kerala because of the negligence of travellers who violated quarantine guidelines. Hospitals in Mangaluru also have been offering treatment to patients from our neighbouring districts of Udupi, Kodagu and Chikkamagaluru. Hence, the district administration should take decisions taking into consideration the health of people in districts in Karnataka,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mangaluru/dont-designate-any-more-hospitals-for-patients-from-kerala-youth-congress/articleshow/75100500.cms||---
April 12, 2020||Jaipur||Invalid address hurdle in tracing +ve patients||Jaipur: It is becoming extremely difficult for Jaipur police to trace those who tested positive for Covid-19 due to incorrect addresses given by the people living in Ramganj and other parts of Walled City. On Saturday, the cops spent hours tracing a person who was tested positive but had given incorrect address to them. Also, at a few places in Ramganj, even after police traced the Covid-19 cases after their addresses were given to them by heath authorities, the ambulances and health workers came late. “It appears that in the camps organised by the health officials, either the people are giving incorrect addresses out of fear or the health workers are merely conducting formalities on paper and not checking the credentials of the persons coming to give their samples,” said a senior officer of Jaipur police commissionerate on condition of anonymity. Also, there were cases wherein the persons who had given samples on Thursday gave their address as Abdul Majiid (name changed) house near Lal Majjid. “We were given a vague address and were asked to trace a person who tested positive for Covid-19. It was a difficult task,” the officer added. “That is a lapse on their (people’s) part. Our teams are working tirelessly doing door-to-door surveys and sample collection. I have asked authorities to take action against those who are misleading the teams,” said Raghu Sharma, medical and health minister. “People in Ramganj are not cooperating. Though things have improved still many are not complying,” said a senior officer of health department.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/invalid-address-hurdle-in-tracing-ve-patients/articleshow/75102565.cms||---
April 12, 2020||Ahmedabad||Cops call for social media vigilantes||Ahmedabad: To curb spread of hate messages and fake news on social media amid Covid-19 pandemic, Ahmedabad police have practically made WhatsApp group admin the group’s monitor. The city police on Saturday came out with an advisory/ instructions/ appeal for people not to misuse social media to create panic among people in these trying times. It has sought vigilantism on part of the people with regard to what is being posted on social media, particularly on WhatsApp. This is because cops feel that this platform is misused the most to spread hatred, rumours and fake news. Hence, cops have called for citizens to verify information before posting or sharing it with others. All admins on WhatsApp groups have been asked to monitor and regulate hate mongering by members by reporting their objectionable posts to the police. All citizens have been instructed to report people who are posting fake news, unverified information and spreading hatred on social media. The advisory also lists not less than eight penal provisions under which cops would take action against such hate mongers and fake news paddlers. While cops have specific instructions for group administrators, they also conveyed to all those who are participants in such social media platforms. People have been asked to not post fake news, rumours or provoking messages, posts, photographs, audio or video. They have to desist from forwarding false information posted by other group members. They have been asked to delete such posts immediately, and verify the authenticity of any information before sharing it with others. If they find any objectionable post, they should immediately report to the nearby police station. And most importantly, all citizens have been asked to refrain from forwarding hate messages.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/cops-call-for-social-media-vigilantes/articleshow/75102330.cms||---
April 12, 2020||Madurai||Tamil Nadu: Five booked for holding marriage of minor girl||MADURAI: The Usilampatti all women police, on Saturday, booked five people for conducting the marriage of a 16-year-old girl a few days ago. According to police source, the wedding was conducted on Monday (April 6) in a house that belongs to the girl’s relative in Vellaimalaipattti. Since Covid-19 restrictions are in place, they conducted it as a small function with participation of members from a few families. The incident came to light four days after the wedding. An unidentified person called up Childline helpline and informed about it. A team from social welfare department visited the village and held an inquiry on Friday. Since it came to light that she was a minor, a complaint was lodged with AWPS. The FIR was registered under Tamil Nadu Prohibition of Child Marriage Act 2006 against five people including the girl’s parents, police said. The accused were identified as M Jagadeesan, 24, the bridegroom, his parents- A Murugan, 53, M Bhagawathi, 50, and the girl’s parents K Annadurai, 55, and A Sugayee, 50. The victim has been rescued and sent to a government home.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/five-booked-for-holding-marriage-of-minor-girl/articleshow/75102241.cms||---
April 12, 2020||Nagpur||Ex-minister’s kin party at farmhouse, cops fail to act||Nagpur: The city police, despite orders to implement social distancing norms, failed to act after getting information about a party going on at the farmhouse of an ex-minister’s kin on the outskirts of Hingna in the wee hours of Saturday. The incident comes close on the heels of state government sending a senior IPS officer on forced leave for allowing influential people to visit Mahabaleshwar during lockdown. Senior PI Sarin Durge of Hingna police station said that the women family members had left the farmhouse on Friday evening while the ex-minister’s son-in-law along with other relatives were present when cops reached there. Sources said that Hingna police’s night officer had visited the place after rural police control was alerted about the party. Zonal DCP Vivek Masaal, who was on night round, said no action could be taken as the minister’s kin was at his residence and was not found loitering on the road in violation of Section 144. “It is their residential place and they were at home,” said the DCP, adding, “We had deployed four nakabandis in the interiors of Hingna blocking all the connecting roads heading to different remote places. It’s difficult to dodge police and take liquor to the interiors. Two liquor dens were also raided by police in my presence in the last couple of days.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/ex-ministers-kin-party-at-farmhouse-cops-fail-to-act/articleshow/75102240.cms||Soumitra Bose
April 12, 2020||Jaipur||Now, random tests in Adarsh Nagar and Nahargarh||Jaipur: State government added two more areas in the city for random Covid-19 tests — Nahargarh and Adarsh Nagar — on Saturday. These two areas are outside the Walled City and were added after positive cases surfaced from there. It gives a clear signal that the critical hotspot for Covid-19 has gone beyond the Walled City area, giving a tough fight to health workers, administrative officers and the police. “Both the areas have been included and one case each has surfaced from these areas,” said Aqeel Khan, an area magistrate, Walled City. He further added that the administration has taken close to 1,300 more random tests, taking the total number of random tests to 3,500 in the last four days. Jaipur is the second city in the state to go for random tests, to ascertain the level and gravity of the situation in the hotspot areas in the city. Over 250 Covid-19-positive cases have surfaced in a matter of 15 days, related to one person who returned from Oman. The random sampling done in the first three days was in and around Ramganj. “The sampling done on Saturday is in new areas, to determine the spread of the virus from the Ramganj area,” said Khan. The report of the tests taken on Saturday will come on Sunday, followed by a meeting of officials to discuss the strategy to combat the situation. Meanwhile, the administration has deputed more workforce to ensure that essential supplies reach the last man standing. Since curfew is in place, the administration has cancelled the passes of several social workers who were into the distribution of food and free ration.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/now-random-tests-in-adarsh-nagar-and-nahargarh/articleshow/75102564.cms||---
April 12, 2020||Nagpur||Delhi firm abandons 700 more youths in Hingoli||Yavatmal: In yet another shocker, over 700 youths hailing from Kerala (200), Tamil Nadu (300) and Telangana (200) have been dumped by the Delhi-based Glaze Trading Company in the neighbouring district of Hingoli. The employees, who are in Hingoli since 8-12 months, have not even got their salaries. On Saturday morning, TOI got a distressed call from 23-year-old Pratap Murugan, an engineer employed by the company. “I’m Pratap from Mathurai district of Tamil Nadu. I joined the Delhi-based Glaze company 8 months ago. I was sent to Hingoli for training in marketing. We are 700 of us hailing from Tamil Nadu, Kerala and Telangana. We have been housed here in Khushal Nagar, Siddharth Nagar, Gayatri Mandir and some other places in rooms rented by the company. Till the lockdown, things were moving smoothly, but now we are in serious trouble,” he said. The stress levels of the youngsters has risen all the more as the company’s supervisor in Hingoli district, Shiv Krishna, is not reachable. “Eight to ten youths have been dumped in each room. The rent of the room ranges between Rs3000-Rs5000 per month. If it is a house or an apartment, the rent is nearly Rs15000-Rs20,000. We are in a woeful condition as the landlords are demanding rent. The company has shut down and nobody is around to take care of us. We have no money to pay the rent. The landlords have given us an ultimatum to either pay the rent or vacate the premises immediately. We tried to contact the company’s supervisor Shiv Krishna but he is not reachable,” said Murugan, who had heard about TOI’s coordinated efforts with the Yavatmal police that helped rescue 400 trainees dumped by the company in Pusad and 29 in Yavatmal. Taking cognisance of the TOI report published on March 31, Yavatmal SP M Rajkumar had acted quickly and started the supply of drinking water and provisions to the inmates of the hostel. The news had reached TN chief minister Edappadi Palaniswamy who sent e-mails to Maharashtra chief minister Uddhav Thackeray and Rajkumar expressing his gratitude.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/delhi-firm-abandons-700-more-youths-in-hingoli/articleshow/75102243.cms||---
April 12, 2020||Madurai||530 health workers monitor residents in containment zones||Madurai: More than 530 health workers have been deployed by the corporation to check residents of Melamadai, Bibikulam, Narimedu and Mahaboobpalayam containment zones in the city, for symptoms of Covid-19. People residing in one km radius from the houses, where positive cases were identified, have been brought under the containment zones. The health workers visit door to door to check for fever and other symptoms of Covid-19. Apart from this, families of those who recently returned from abroad are being followed up through phone to check for any symptoms. “People in containment zones are monitored so that they do not roam outside. In order to supply required vegetables for the houses in containment zone, three vehicles carrying assorted vegetable bags are being allotted every day, for each of the four zones,” official from health department said.Four teams, each consisting of 10 people, have been formed by the corporation. They will be monitored by two assistant executive engineers and two administrative officers. They also ensure that volunteers wear protective gears while venturing into the containment zones, to sell vegetables. Disinfection activity is also being carried out using 250 hand sprayers, four vehicle mounted sprayers, 36 power sprayers, eight jet rodders and one drone. Hospitals too are disinfected five times a day. All the activities are being monitored through the control room created for this purpose at the corporation main building, officials said.Meanwhile, pamphlets containing contact information with phone numbers of nearby grocery stores, vegetable vendors and pharmacies are being distributed door to door so that residents get their requirement without any hassle.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/530-health-workers-monitor-residents-in-containment-zones/articleshow/75102246.cms||---
April 12, 2020||Hyderabad||Hyderabad: Containment misses the mark in Chandanagar areas, vendors ply||HYDERABAD: Ignoring the protocol in place for containment clusters, delivery executives of food and medicine delivery platforms, push-cart vendors and others are being allowed in containment zones at Chandanagar . Though Greater Hyderabad Municipal Corporation (GHMC) officials made it clear that no one except police, health and sanitation workers would be allowed to cross barricades, the reality on the ground is otherwise, with several outsiders travelling in these zones, also known as red zones. “Executives go to residents’ house to deliver the order. If we ask some residents to come near the barricades to pick their orders, others might also want to come out,” a police constable, who was guarding one of the colonies in the containment cluster located in Chandanagar, told STOI. Giving a reason for allowing vendors with their push-carts into restricted zones, he said: “By doing so, residents will not come out of the colonies to make purchases and gather near these vendors.” Residents, acting as volunteers at these colonies, said that they can’t restrict the entry of delivery boys with medicines and food. “As all shops are closed by 12 noon, residents in the colony have no option. Even if we are try to stop them from venturing out of the colony, they are not heeding to our request. So, under current circumstances, allowing delivery boys helps as it is stops at least a few from coming out of their houses,” Khaja Bhasha, a volunteer, said. To make things worse, the location of a ration shop in one of the containment zones is forcing outsiders to enter the area. “Many people from our colony are forced to go to an adjacent colony for ration. We are unable to stop them as there is no other option,” said G Ramakrishna, a volunteer. He said that although both colonies are marked as containment zones, there have been no Covid-19 positive cases from their colony. “When officials are saying that people should not even move inside their colony, it is scary that many from our colony are going to the other colony every day,” he added. As per GHMC rules, people in the containment areas are supposed to call helpline established by nodal officer for supply of essential commodities by vendors appointed by the corporation. GHMC, Serilingampally, deputy municipal commissioner Sudhamsh N said that there were nine containment zones in Chandanagar. “As we have recorded 11 Covid-19 positive cases from these nine zones, no outsiders except officials are allowed in these zones,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/containment-misses-the-mark-in-chandanagar-areas-vendors-ply/articleshow/75102251.cms||Nirupa Vatyam
April 12, 2020||Vijayawada||Kurnool tally rises to 82 as 5 more test +ve for Covid-19||Tirupati: Five more people tested positive for Covid-19 in Kurnool district on Saturday, taking the total number of people to have tested positive for coronavirus in the district to 82 . According to district collector G Veerapandian, the district administration had sent the samples of 108 primary contacts of Covid-19 patients linked to the Delhi Jamaat meet for medical examination. Five of these came back positive, while the rest 103 tested negative for the novel coronavirus. With this, 82 people have tested positive for Covid-19 in Kurnool district, the highest in the state of Andhra Pradesh. Meanwhile, following a spike in the number of people testing positive for coronavirus in the district, Kurnool district administration declared that all the chicken, meat and fish markets across the district will remain closed on Sunday. Pointing out that these stalls have turned out to be hotspots for the virus as they attract a large number of people, district collector G Veerapandian appealed to the people to co-operate with the district administration and local police to contain the virus.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/kurnool-tally-rises-to-82-as-5-more-test-ve/articleshow/75100995.cms||Sandeep Raghavan
April 12, 2020||Vijayawada||TTD feeds over 500 stray dogs, cattle||TIRUPATI: The Tirumala Tirupati Devasthanams has joined hands with several volunteers and has been providing food to over 500 stray dogs, besides cattle in the city. According Tirumala Tirupati Devasthanams sources, the director of Sri Venkateswara dairy farm was handed the responsibility of feeding the animals, including deserted cattle and dogs in and around the temple city. “From April 1, the Tirumala Tirupati Devasthanams has been distributing nearly three metric tonnes of fodder to various gaushalas in the temple city, in addition to the cattle deserted on the streets. This will continue till the nationwide lockdown to combate novel coronavirus is lifted,” said Tirumala Tirupati Devasthanams’s dairy farm director K Harinadh Reddy.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/ttd-feeds-over-500-stray-dogs-cattle/articleshow/75101005.cms||Sandeep Raghavan
April 12, 2020||Hubballi||K’buragi, Bidar both record 11th +ve case||Kalaburagi: With one more testing positive for Covid-19, the number of such cases in Kalaburagi has risen to 11. Similarly, Bidar too got its 11th positive case recorded on Saturday. The latest case in Kalaburagi is that of a 38-year-old nurse working at private hospital, which is one of the two facilities recently closed by the district administration for allegedly violating the medical guidelines — they had kept Covid-19-infected people without informing the health department. The nurse had treated the second coronavirus patient (who also succumbed) in Kalaburagi. Deputy CM Govind Karjol on Saturday said the number of Covid-19 positive cases has increased to 11 in Kalaburagi. The latest postivie case in Bidar is of a 50-year-old woman.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hubballi/kburagi-bidar-both-record-11th-ve-case/articleshow/75101001.cms||---
April 12, 2020||Hyderabad||Hyderabad Police chief meets cops, keeps their morale high||HYDERABAD: Ever since the twin cities came under lockdown, the role of cops has received all-round praise. In the line of duty, police too have been making a number of sacrifices and at times are undergoing severe stress in these challenging times. To boost the morale of his personnel, Hyderabad police chief Anjani Kumar is doing his bit. Three men in khakhi were in for a pleasant surprise recently when their boss landed at their offices. The commissioner arrived to take part in the birthday celebrations of two constables in Charminar and the marriage anniversary of another cop at Santosh Nagar on Thursday. Anjani Kumar also made it a habit to meet at least 50 constables — usually between 12.30 am and 1 am — and distribute biscuits and snacks. Recently, in a two-hour video conference with about 4,000 personnel, the commissioner enquired about their mental and physical condition.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/cp-meets-cops-keeps-their-morale-high/articleshow/75102569.cms||---
April 12, 2020||Hyderabad||Hyderabad: Minor working as domestic help at doctor’s house rescued||HYDERABAD: A minor girl, working as a domestic help at a doctor’s house at Khanajiguda in Secunderabad, was rescued on Friday night. The girl was allegedly verbally abused by the doctor and his wife, an elderly couple. The girl has been moved to a shelter home. Bowenpally police and child welfare officials rescued the victim, suspected to be between 13 and 15 years, from the doctor’s house after a tip-off from city-based NGO, Balala Hakkula Sangham. “The girl was staying with her maternal aunt at Mancherial, before she was sent with the elderly couple. We demand strict action against the couple,” Achyuta Rao of the NGO said. “The girl hasn’t spoken much, but only complained of verbal abuse. We are yet to ascertain if there was any physical abuse,” a child welfare officer said. The official added that the girl had been staying with the couple for a few weeks. “She will be counselled. There is a delay in her medical examination due to Covid-19 cases being treated in different hospitals,” the official added. So far, no case has been registered against the couple. The girl has been moved to a shelter home. It is yet to be examined if she was physically abused. The examination is being delayed due to the Covid-19 patients being treated at Gandhi Hospital||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/minor-working-as-domestic-help-at-docs-house-rescued/articleshow/75102247.cms||---
April 12, 2020||Amaravati||TTD feeds over 500 stray dogs, cattle||TIRUPATI: The Tirumala Tirupati Devasthanams has joined hands with several volunteers and has been providing food to over 500 stray dogs, besides cattle in the city. According Tirumala Tirupati Devasthanams sources, the director of Sri Venkateswara dairy farm was handed the responsibility of feeding the animals, including deserted cattle and dogs in and around the temple city. “From April 1, the Tirumala Tirupati Devasthanams has been distributing nearly three metric tonnes of fodder to various gaushalas in the temple city, in addition to the cattle deserted on the streets. This will continue till the nationwide lockdown to combate novel coronavirus is lifted,” said Tirumala Tirupati Devasthanams’s dairy farm director K Harinadh Reddy.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/amaravati/ttd-feeds-over-500-stray-dogs-cattle/articleshow/75104785.cms||Sandeep Raghavan
April 12, 2020||Jaipur||Containment, screening, identification can help beat virus: Health minister||As Covid-19 cases areincreasing daily, how is your preparedness?Since March 2 when the first case was reported in our state, we have been working to ensure that there is no compromise on containment efforts and medications. Initially, we did not have testing facilities and had to get test reports from Pune. Now, we have 8 testing facilities across the state with a capacity of 2,500 tests per day. We have constituted rapid response teams who are experts in dealing with the pandemic. Collective efforts helped us to make Bhilwara a success story. After Bhilwara, where is the focus now? We have 40 areas under curfew. Out of 33 districts, things flared up in 24 districts. Out of these affected districts, we have 10 where we have reported more than 10 cases. Now focus is on the whole state. So far we have done 25,000 tests, one of the highest in the country.Ramganj now has more than 200 cases. How it is different from Bhilwara? Both are different demographically. In Ramganj, we have a population of more than 2.5 lakh which was initially scared to come for tests. Now they are cooperating. We have divided the area into 30 clusters and blocks. We have already taken almost 2,400 samples from Ramganj. I believe containment, screening and identification of patients is the key to success.In other states, health workers are complaining of lack of PPE kits and other gadgets? Do we have enough? We have 19,535 PPE kits on standby and nearly 1.10 lakh N-95 masks. We have also announced insurance of Rs 50 lakh for kin of health workers in case of death.Are you worried with increased numbers of patients? The ray of hope for us is that out of those who tested positive so far, we have 14 per cent patients of age bracket 60-80 years, 70 per cent in the age group of 20-40 and 16 per cent in the bracket of 0-20 years. Because of the lockdown and the curfew, we saved people of 60-80 years from getting infected. My feeling is that since we have 70 per cent patients between 20 and 40 years, they will get well soon.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/containment-screening-identification-can-help-beat-virus-health-minister/articleshow/75102567.cms||Ashish Mehta
April 12, 2020||Ahmedabad||Lockdown luck: Ahmedabad gets to breathe cleaner air||NAGPUR/AHMEDABAD: While various states have announced extending the lockdown till April 30, the bright side of it is that citizens will be breathing much cleaner air. Track the pollution level in your cityLatest analysis done by environment organization Climate Trends reveals that many cities in the country saw an improvement in air quality during the lockdown. The city of Ahmedabad had the AQI of 98 which was satisfactory. Even since lockdown sthe city AQI has been below 100. Even areas like Pirana and Bopal which had AQI of near or over 300 had an AQI of 102 and 101 respectively on Saturday,. The worst air quality was at LEhkawada where the AQI was 162 which was the highest on Saturday in Ahmedabad city. Analysis of System of Air Quality and Weather Forecasting and Research (SAFAR) data brought to the fore that the near-complete stoppage of daily traffic has led to drastic fall in the levels of particulate matter (PM) 2.5. The pollutant’s levels dropped by 62% in Delhi, 45% in Mumbai, 31% in Pune and 57% in Ahmedabad post April 6. It’s not just the cities that are breathing easy but also industrial clusters in Gujarat like Vapi, Ankaleshwar and Vatva have also reported cleaner air during the lockdown. Vapi, ranked as the most polluted industrial cluster on the Central Pollution Control Board’s (CPCB) Comprehensive Environmental Pollution Index (CEPI), recorded a 79.7% drop in sulphur dioxide (SO2) levels, one of the key emissions from coal-fired thermal power plants. “The air quality index in Vapi dropped to 100 from 313 on March 19,” the analysis added. The analysis of air pollution levels shows that out of 101 cities, 35 recorded ‘good’ air quality on the fourth day of the lockdown. These levels were unprecedented and never reached since the Air Quality Index (AQI) was launched in 2014. NOx pollution in Ahmedabad dropped by 32% in the week from April 6, the analysis stated.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/lockdown-luck-city-gets-to-breathe-cleaner-air/articleshow/75102326.cms||Manka Behl
April 12, 2020||Nagpur||Amid tough times, card holders ‘duped’ in ration distribution||Nagpur: At a time when several individuals and non-governmental organizations (NGOs) have come forward to provide food and groceries to underprivileged citizens, a fraud has allegedly surfaced in distribution of essentials to ration card holders in the city. There are around 680 ration shops across the city. Some of the shopkeepers are allegedly providing less quantity of groceries to card holders and entering more in government record. Food distribution officer Anil Sawai confirmed that they have received several complaints of discrepancies in ration actually provided by shopkeepers and that reported to the government. “On the backdrop of Covid-19 outbreak, we have also activated a flying squad to check on shopkeepers who might be indulging in illegalities,” said Sawai. The alleged fraud came to light when activists from NGO ‘Together We Can’ were distributing groceries to needy citizens who do not hold ration cards. An activist said on condition of anonymity, “We also came across some card holders who claimed that they have got ration from government designated shops. To check whether they are getting enough groceries, we visited the government website.” On the website, the activists claimed they found that the card holders are getting much less than what was being reported to the government by the shopkeepers. “We found several such card holders in different areas of the city and also made their videos. In one video, even a shopkeeper accepted that he provided less groceries to card holders but entered more quantity against their name,” the activist said. TOI has received several such videos. It is learnt, some of the activists are being threatened for speaking with the card holders. There are around 44,089 Antoday card holders in the city while 3.11 lakh citizens have priority household cards. They are allotted monthly ration. Shopkeeper should give a receipt to the card holder after giving groceries. However, most of them avoid giving the receipt. “Shopkeepers must provide receipts to citizens after giving the ration,” Sawai said. Every card holder can check data pertaining to the ration allotted to them on the website www.mahaepos.gov.in. “The citizens must be made aware of this website so that they are not duped by these shopkeepers,” the activist said. Sawai claimed that stringent action is being taken against those found indulging in malpractices. “We are also forfeiting their deposits and cancelling licences. A shop’s licence in Sadar zone was cancelled recently following a complaint,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/amid-tough-times-card-holders-duped-in-ration-distribution/articleshow/75102260.cms||Viraj Deshpande
April 12, 2020||Guwahati||Assam migrant tests positive, slits throat in Maharashtra||NAGPUR: A 30-year-old positive patient of Covid-19, admitted in the isolation ward of Government Medical College and Hospital (GMCH) in Akola, committed suicide by slitting his throat early on Saturday. “The man was admitted to GMCH by the police on April 7. His report was positive on Friday. On Saturday, he committed suicide by slitting his throat. We have registered an accidental death report in the matter and further investigation is under way,” said Amogh Gavkar, superintendent of police of Akola. The man is said to be a resident of Salpada from Nagaon district of Assam. He was among the seven persons from Patur village, 30km away from Akola, who tested positive on the night of April 9. All seven persons from Patur had stayed in one of the mosques in Badnera for eight days in March. According to the administration, they must have come in contact with some Covid-19 carrier patient during this stay. The deceased had come to Akola district through Tabhlighi Jamaat contacts and was working as a labourer here. But whether he was a member of TJ or attended the congregation at Nizamuddin is still not clear. Akola district collector Jitendra Papalkar said that the man died due to excessive bleeding. “Today, a patient at Akola GMCH died after he suffered a neck injury. He died during treatment as he had already lost too much blood. He is from Assam. He tested positive for Covid-19. Police investigation is under way,” said Papalkar. Sources at GMCH Akola said the man was an asymptomatic carrier of Covid-19. He was healthy and had all chances to recover from the disease during the 14-day stay in hospital. He had stopped talking to others since he was informed about his result and was kept alone in isolation ward separated from other suspect patients. The man used the broken glass of a window and a shaving blade to cut his throat. One of the on-duty health workers noticed him lying in a pool of blood at around 5am. The hospital staff rushed him to the doctors who immediately took him for surgery. But, he succumbed to injuries. Police said no suicide note was found from his possession. This could be the case of depression or fear after being detected as Covid-19 positive patient. It’s a first such case in Central India. Earlier, suspected Covid-19 patients or those who had fear of being infected by novel coronavirus had committed suicides in Delhi, Shimla, and Hapur.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/guwahati/assam-man-a-covid-19-patient-commits-suicide-at-akola-gmch/articleshow/75103544.cms||Chaitanya Deshpande
April 12, 2020||Nagpur||Assam migrant tests positive, slits throat in Maharashtra||NAGPUR: A 30-year-old positive patient of Covid-19, admitted in the isolation ward of Government Medical College and Hospital (GMCH) in Akola, committed suicide by slitting his throat early on Saturday. “The man was admitted to GMCH by the police on April 7. His report was positive on Friday. On Saturday, he committed suicide by slitting his throat. We have registered an accidental death report in the matter and further investigation is under way,” said Amogh Gavkar, superintendent of police of Akola. The man is said to be a resident of Salpada from Nagaon district of Assam. He was among the seven persons from Patur village, 30km away from Akola, who tested positive on the night of April 9. All seven persons from Patur had stayed in one of the mosques in Badnera for eight days in March. According to the administration, they must have come in contact with some Covid-19 carrier patient during this stay. The deceased had come to Akola district through Tabhlighi Jamaat contacts and was working as a labourer here. But whether he was a member of TJ or attended the congregation at Nizamuddin is still not clear. Akola district collector Jitendra Papalkar said that the man died due to excessive bleeding. “Today, a patient at Akola GMCH died after he suffered a neck injury. He died during treatment as he had already lost too much blood. He is from Assam. He tested positive for Covid-19. Police investigation is under way,” said Papalkar. Sources at GMCH Akola said the man was an asymptomatic carrier of Covid-19. He was healthy and had all chances to recover from the disease during the 14-day stay in hospital. He had stopped talking to others since he was informed about his result and was kept alone in isolation ward separated from other suspect patients. The man used the broken glass of a window and a shaving blade to cut his throat. One of the on-duty health workers noticed him lying in a pool of blood at around 5am. The hospital staff rushed him to the doctors who immediately took him for surgery. But, he succumbed to injuries. Police said no suicide note was found from his possession. This could be the case of depression or fear after being detected as Covid-19 positive patient. It’s a first such case in Central India. Earlier, suspected Covid-19 patients or those who had fear of being infected by novel coronavirus had committed suicides in Delhi, Shimla, and Hapur.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/assam-man-a-covid-19-patient-commits-suicide-at-akola-gmch/articleshow/75102265.cms||Chaitanya Deshpande
April 12, 2020||Vijayawada||Kerala-like swab collection booths set up in city areas||Vijayawada: With the state government deciding to increase the pace of testing for coronavirus (Covid-19), the Krishna district administration has set up booths where swabs will be collected free of cost similar to those being used in Kerala. The swab collection booths will help medical staff to collect samples without the need of changing personal protection equipment kit every time. It is imperative that all necessary safety precautions are taken while collecting a swab from a suspected Covid-19 patient, as there is a risk of the virus spreading to the health worker. Considering all these factors, the district administration along with Andhra Pradesh Vidhya Vidhana Parishad developed these transparent swab collection booth made of iron and fibreglass. “This booth is designed in a way that the health staff, wearing gloves till the elbow, collect the swab from the person through the glass booth. There is no chance of spreading the infection. It is easy and one can complete swab collection within 15 seconds,” Krishna district collector A Mohammed Imtiaz said. The collector added: “We are going to conduct elaborate testing across the district as per the directions of the state government. Special priority will be given to the persons residing in red zones and containment zones.” Swab collection booths will be initially installed within Vijayawada Municipal Corporation limits.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/kerala-like-swab-collection-booths-set-up-in-city-areas/articleshow/75101016.cms||Venu Lanka
April 12, 2020||Thiruvananthapuram||State sees 10 new cases, 19 recoveries in a day||Thiruvananthapuram: On Saturday, 10 more Covid-19 cases were reported in Kerala, taking the total number of cases to 373. Seven of them were in Kannur, two in Kasaragod and one in Kozhikode. Among this lot, three had a history of foreign travel and seven contracted the disease due to direct contact. Chief minister Pinarayi Vijayan said that 19 persons had recovered from the disease, of which nine were from Kasaragod. In Palakkad, the figure was four while the same in Thiruvananthapuram was three. In Idukki two persons recovered while in Thrissur, one person recovered. "The fall in new cases and the meteoric rise in the number of people recuperating are reasons enough to rejoice. But, such positive developments should never be reasons for the society to slip into complacency," said Vijayan. In several places, there were attempts to break lockdown norms. Some misused an ambulance service while others rode bikes on railway tracks. Action will be taken against such persons, he added. Now, 228 persons are being treated for Covid-19 in state, with 1,23,491 being kept under observation. Of the lot, 814 are in hospitals and the rest in home quarantine. As many as 201 persons were admitted to hospitals on Saturday, he said. The chief minister said government was taking steps to ensure safety and medical care of NRKs stranded in foreign lands, especially the Gulf. Steps were taken to provide Rs 1,000 (each) to 15,000 members of NRK welfare board. Among them, those who tested positive, will get an assistance of Rs 10,000, he said. Also, Rs 5,000 (each) will be given to working NRKs, who are now stranded in Kerala. Vijayan said there was no scientific proof that validated the effectiveness of disinfection tunnels and district collectors were given instructions in this regard. Vijayan said movement of essential goods to state has improved and government would intervene to ensure the availability of LPG cylinders. The chief minister said 2.5L rooms were identified by government if an emergency arose. Of this, 1.24L rooms are ready. Local bodies have been asked to identify locked homes that could be used in the fight against coronavirus. Vijayan urged unaided schools to disburse the salary of its staff and warned them against collecting fees from students during lockdown period.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/thiruvananthapuram/state-sees-10-new-cases-19-recoveries-in-a-day/articleshow/75101018.cms||---
April 12, 2020||Hyderabad||Hyderabad: Pastor & 19 others booked for violating lockdown||HYDERABAD: Bachupally police on Friday registered a case against a pastor and 19 others for allegedly participating in a group gathering, violating lockdown orders to contain Covid-19. Bachupally Police said the case is registered against 20 persons, including a pastor under section Epidemic Diseases Act, Disaster Management Act, Section 188 (disobedience to government order) of the Indian Penal Code. The accused had gathered at a house on the occasion of Good Friday. When police came to know about the incident, they went to the location and captured photos before registering a case. A few days ago, in a similar offence, Bachupally police registered a case against persons who gathered for prayers in a mosque in Bachupally.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/pastor-19-others-flout-rules-booked/articleshow/75102266.cms||---
April 12, 2020||Madurai||‘Stocks enough, hoarders will face music’||Madurai: There is no scarcity of essential items required for the city residents and the increase in the price of certain items is only due to some greedy traders who have been taking advantage of the pandemic situation to make a fast buck, say officials. A team comprising food safety, revenue and labour department officials formed by district collector T G Vinay is conducting regular check in markets to ascertain the availability of essential goods and ensure that commodities are not sold at higher prices. Officials say that essential items have been reaching the city in vehicles without any hindrance on a regular basis. Moreover, local mills manufacturing food items are functioning as usual. However, some traders have resorted to hoarding certain products to sell at higher prices. They will be taken to task by closing down their shops and registering FIR. Various measures including providing passes for vehicles carrying essential items, checking for hoarding and ensuring MRP rule is not violated are being taken. "As per instructions from the district collector we have asked all traders to display price list prominently to make sure price is not increased in an unjust manner. But, traders are yet to comply with it. Action will be taken against them soon," said the designated officer for food safety, Madurai district, Dr M Somasundaram. He said that an artificial scarcity has been created by some traders through hoarding. Enough essential items are available in Madurai city. Price will automatically come down if people stop panic-buying. They have received complaints against a few traders for selling at higher prices which will be acted upon soon, he said. President of Tamil Nadu foodgrains merchants association S P Jeyaprakasam said that the wrongdoing of 10% of traders brings disgrace to the entire trading community. “Movement of essential items is smooth now. Consignments from North India have also started and are expected to reach here in a few days. Consumption has come down by 40%. In a matter of a couple of weeks, the price of groceries will go up heavily,” he said. He urged people not to go for panic buying. People should purchase what is required for the next one week instead of stocking essential items for months together, Jeyaprakasam added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/stocks-enough-hoarders-will-face-music/articleshow/75102267.cms||---
April 12, 2020||Vijayawada||10,000 homes get 5kg rice each in Srikalahasti town||Tirupati: With the lockdown reaching three weeks, and amidst reports that it is likely to be extended, YSRC legislators have been reaching out to the people and distributing groceries, face masks and hand sanitisers, to help them survive the lockdown. YSRC’s Srikalahasti legislator Biyyapu Madhusudhan Reddy distributed 50 tonnes of rice among his constituents on Saturday. Nearly 30 tractors carrying 50 tonnes of rice went from house to house, delivering the commodities. Speaking to STOI, Madhusudhan Reddy said, “Today we are distributing 5 kg rice bags to nearly 10,000 houses in Srikalahasti town. There are several people who have lost their livelihoods due to the lockdown. Our effort is to ease their burden. The state government is also reaching out to the people below the poverty line with different relief measures.” Meanwhile, state government whip Chevireddy Bhaskar Reddy, along with YSRC’s Rajya Sabha MP Vemireddy Prabhakar Reddy, distributed 16 lakh kg of 25 kinds of vegetables to the people of Chandragiri assembly constituency in Chittoor district on Saturday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/10000-homes-get-5kg-rice-each-in-srikalahasti-town/articleshow/75101028.cms||Sandeep Raghavan
April 12, 2020||Ahmedabad||10 held in Ahmedabad for going on morning walk||AHMEDABAD: Ten persons, including a 37-year-old woman, were arrested by Riverfront West and Satellite police on Friday morning for violating the lockdown rules. They were later released on bail. Vastrapur, Satellite and Maninagar police had arrested 63 morning walkers in the past week. According to police, one Meena Gajjar, a resident of Usmanpura, was found coming from the Usmanpura garden at 7.15am. “When asked, she said she was feeling uneasy inside her home and came out for a walk. We arrested her under Section 188 of the IPC,” said a Riverfront West police official. During patrolling in Manekbaug areas at about 7.30am, the cops saw some people on the road. “We arrested Shiva Murthy, Shailesh Patni, Hemal Shah, Anand Haribhakt, Nimesh Shah, Sachin Chaudhary, Hiren Patel, Kamlesh Shah and Meet Shah, as they came out on road during lockdown for morning walk,” said an official of Satellite police station. “We have been instructed to beef up patrolling in the morning to stop people from coming out of their houses for morning walk,” added a police official.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/10-held-for-going-on-morning-walk/articleshow/75102324.cms||---
April 12, 2020||Vijayawada||Vendors continue to sell essentials at high prices||Vijayawada: Despite the state government fixing the prices of essential commodies, vendors across the state continue to take advantage of the demand and charge prices higher than the MRP. The state legal metrology officials have booked 585 cases since the lockdown was announced across Andhra Pradesh. The civil supplies department had issued a price list for all commodities under the Essential Commodities Act, 1955, in the last week of March. Officials further explained to the vendors that they are obligated to sell these commodities as per the prices set by the government for stocks sold in loose. Speaking to STOI, controller of legal metrology department M Kantha Rao admitted that there have been instances where essential supplies such as milk and other goods were being sold are higher prices during the lockdown. “We booked around 30 cases right after the lockdown was imposed against milk vendors and also inspected medical stores and registered another 20 cases after noting that sanitisers, masks and soaps were being sold at higher prices,” Rao told STOI. Official data show that a majority of cases related to overpricing were registered against general stores followed by milk vendors and fair price shops. The government also formed special teams led by respective district joint collectors which includes officials from civil supplies, food safety and vigilance and enforcement directorate departments. The lockdown has also resulted in hoarding and black marketing of essential supplies. In this regard, the state government had issued a government order on April 6 giving powers to the legal metrology department to register cases against them as well. “There are instances of hoarding and black marketing in the state where vendors, supplies and even farmers are looking to illegally store the supplies to sell them for higher prices compared to the fixed amount by the district collectors,” Rao added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/vendors-continue-to-sell-essentials-at-high-prices/articleshow/75101025.cms||Ujwal Bommakanti
April 12, 2020||Hyderabad||Telangana records over 6,000 forest fires in 20 days||HYDERABAD: Telangana has recorded 6,424 forest fires in the last 20 days and stands among the top states in the country to have recorded the highest number of fires in 2019-2020. Forest fires have continued to break out in the state, with several more being reported after the nationwide lockdown to curb the spread of coronavirus was announced. The state has recorded as many as 8,076 fires since November 1 last year, of which, 6,424 fires were recorded in the last 20 days between March 22 and April 11. These numbers were put out by the moderate resolution imaging spectro-radiometer (Modis) and the Suomi-national polar orbiting partnership spacecraft. The data also reveals that Telangana is among the top five states along with Maharashtra, Madhya Pradesh, Assam and Manipur in number of fires recorded. The data on forest fires also reveals that Kawal Tiger Reserve recorded as many as 103 fires, the highest number of forest fires in the reserve this year in just one day. Jannaram forest divisional officer S Madhav Rao said the highest number of fires were recorded between March 30 and April 1 this year. “In Jannaram division of Kawal, after suspecting that the cause of some of these fires could be due to increased movement of people in the forest areas after the lockdown, we started taking measures by ncreasing vigil and detaining trespassers.” Rao, however, said there was no threat to the wildlife as of now. “But, over a period, there will be changes in the ecology and certain insects and plants could get affected. To minimise the damage, we are taking measures by setting up fire lines every 200 to 300 meters,” said Rao. Wildlife conservation Diya Sur Banerjee said, “The only fires in Telangana that can cause actual damage are man-made fires. For instance, in Kawal, there used to be betel leaf collectors who used to purposefully cause the fires. Man-made fires sometimes are also driven by poaching when the animals are driven to a certain area because of the fire.” She further said fires, to a certain extent, re-generate the forest but they should be contained or else the world will see similar raging fires like they happened in Australia or Amazon.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/telangana-records-over-6k-forest-fires-in-20-days/articleshow/75102275.cms||Moulika.KV
April 12, 2020||Thiruvananthapuram||State govt for curbs only in hotspots||Thiruvananthapuram: Though the state government did not demand an extension of lockdown per se, it suggested that time is not yet ripe to go back to the pre-lockdown days and that restrictions should be withdrawn in a phased manner. During an interaction between PM Narendra Modi with the chief ministers of all the states to discuss the steps, chief minister Pinarayi Vijayan said if there is unrestricted public movement, the epidemic may spread even further and in a state like Kerala, where the density of population is very high, it can lead to a serious situation. The state suggested that in districts identified as hotspots, all restrictions which are in place, should continue till April 30. In other districts, activities permitted by the government should be allowed by ensuring social distancing. Respective states should be allowed to take a decision on it, the CM said. Regarding the situation in the state, the chief minister informed PM Modi that there are as many as 3,85,000 guest labourers in the state who want to return to their respective states. The Centre should provide transport facilities to take them to their native states after April 14. Non-stop trains should be provided for them. Since they don’t have incomes, they should also be provided financial aid for the next three months, the chief minister requested. The state also raised the issue of expats during the interaction with the PM. The chief minister said the Centre should instruct respective embassies to provide all possible help to the expats. The embassies should also issue bulletins so that panic due to misinformation can be avoided. The state also demanded that the Centre should provide special flights to bring back all those who had gone abroad on short visits and visit visas. While seeking to address the issues faced by those in the unorganised sector, the state also demanded that Covid-19 should be included among conditions under which Employees State Insurance can offer salaries to labourers. Regarding essential food items, the chief minister said the state should be ensured of 6,45,000 tonnes of rice and 54,000 tonnes of wheat for the next three months. He also requested that the railways should ply more goods trains to the state to bring in grains, fruits and vegetables. In addition, the state also brought to the notice of the PM about the need for increasing the state’s borrowing limit and also providing a special financial package.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/thiruvananthapuram/state-govt-for-curbs-only-in-hotspots/articleshow/75101033.cms||---
April 12, 2020||Madurai||Request Centre to cancel annual fishing ban this year, fishermen tell state govt||Madurai: Fishermen, especially those operating and working in mechanised boats have appealed to the state government to urge the Centre to cancel the annual fishing ban this year. The ministry of fisheries, animal husbandry and dairy on March 20 issued an order stating that the ban will be observed in two phases. The ban on all motorised fishing vessels in the east coast will be for 61 days from April 15 to June 14, while in the west coast it will be from June 1 to July 31. Only traditional non-motorized boats are exempted from the ban. Fishermen from 13 coastal districts especially those engaged in trawling and deep sea fishing have urged the government to consider calling off the ban this year as they are already off the sea over the last few weeks. While 12 coastal districts from Tiruvallur to Tirunelveli are covered in the east coast, Kanyakumari is the only district that is covered in both coasts. “We have not gone fishing after the lockdown on March 23. Those at sea also returned to the shore early. We incurred heavy losses this time as our fish was procured for less than a third of its usual price. Closure of the Kochi harbour for many days resulted in hundreds of boat piling up and a huge quantity of fish getting spoilt,” said P Dickson, a fishermen in Kanyakumari. B Antony Ajay of Tuticorin said that 270 trawlers in the city are off from fishing 20 days before the lockdown following a directive issued by the district administration. J Berchmans of Thangachimadam who owns one of the nearly 2,000 mechanised boats in Ramanathapuram district, said, “People of the region are already suffering without money and continuance of the ban for two more months will badly affect us.” Meenavar Orunginaipu Sangam (MOS), a fishermen body has written to the chief minister, fisheries minister and director in this connection. “We have urged the government to defer the ban this year and asked them to regulate sale of fish at the shore,” secretary of the sangam, C Johnson said. Howver, a fisheries officials said, “We will enforce the ban.” and hinted that there might be a marginal reduction in the number of days.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/request-centre-to-cancel-annual-fishing-ban-this-year-fishermen-tell-state-govt/articleshow/75102272.cms||M K Ananth
April 12, 2020||Ahmedabad||Keeping healthy during the lockdown||Ahmedabad: With increasing restrictions during the ongoing lockdown on movement of people, even those who are out for a morning walk, keeping up with regular workout is a challenge for many. Those who are accustomed to morning walks, especially diabetics – who have been asked by medical practitioners to walk daily, are often in a fix on how to maintain their daily schedule intact. Physiotherapy experts say that staying active and practising simple exercises and yoga will help maintain a regular workout routine while indoors. “The idea is to exercise all your muscles and stay active. Suryanamaskar is one of the best forms of exercises that keeps you fit. That apart, if you are well-versed with yoga postures, you can practise some at home,” said Dr Hiral Bhatt, who is a senior physiotherapist at a city-based private hospital. “It is a misconception that walking is the only form of exercise. There are various other forms of exercises that one can do to improve core strength, or simply remaining active helps a lot. However, due care and caution must be observed if you have any ailments and it is best to consult your doctor before opting for something new,” Dr Maharshi Bhatt, senior orthopaedic & joint replacement surgeon.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/keeping-healthy-during-the-lockdown/articleshow/75102323.cms||---
April 12, 2020||Nagpur||Muslims face social boycott in Buldhana, business too hit||Nagpur: With 17 positive cases of Covid-19, Buldhana is the second most-affected district of Vidarbha. As 16 of the 17 patients are Muslims, this has led to the community facing social boycott, said social and political activists here. Social media messages have been doing rounds urging people to keep members of the community away and not buy essential items from shops owned by Muslims. A medical practitioner from Raipur village in the district has also been booked for spreading hate messages. There are six cases that are linked with the Tablighi Jamaat. Yet, all others are being blamed too, said social activists from both Hindu and Muslim communities. Shabana Parveen, whose husband is a state government employee, alleged that her daughter who is seven months pregnant was turned back from three different sonography centres. “Finally, it appeared that it was because of our religion. At the third hospital, I was asked to come on April 30. First they took her in, but later my daughters and others from our community were simply asked to go,” said Parveen. The doctor had asked to get the sonography done in a day, added the father. A senior police officer in the district admitted that there has been discrimination against members of the community. A departmental store has simply refused entry to people from Muslim-dominated localities like Iqbal Chowk and Mirza Nagar. “We cannot intervene as they have a right to restrict entry to the premises the company owns,” said an officer, requesting anonymity. Ranjit Rajput, a newspaper publisher from Buldhana, said the discrimination was evident. “Messages were doing rounds on social media asking people to avoid buying from Muslims’ shops,” he said. Israr Deshmukh, a YouTuber and a social activist, said a group of volunteers had to face tough time to even get permission from the district administration to distribute food packets to the needy. “We had taken up the matter with police when the officers visited our locality after the positive cases were reported,” he said. Even as the Muslim areas have been sealed, initially local shopkeepers were denied supplies by the wholesalers, said a source. Dr Mobin Khan, a medical practitioner, said one of his patients was insulted while passing through a locality and was asked to leave the place as fast as she could. District collector Suman Chandra said the administration has not come across any such case of discrimination. A vigil is also being maintained to prevent any attempts to create social disharmony. Superintendent of police Dilip Bhujbal said no written complaint has been filed till now. But he confirmed that the doctor in Raipur village was booked. Local advocate WB Qureshi has written to the chief minister, district collector and divisional commissioner that orders should be issued against releasing the patients’ names. Rather, they can be given identification numbers as revealing names is helping a certain elements to create disturbance.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/muslims-face-social-boycott-in-buldhana-business-too-hit/articleshow/75102273.cms||Shishir Arya
April 12, 2020||Hyderabad||Amid lockdown, Hyderabad landlord waives off rent for 75 tenants||HYDERABAD: Playing the Good Samaritan, a house owner in Hyderabad has waived off rents of his 75 tenants during the lockdown. The 41-year-old man who owns three buildings in the city has told his tenants that they need not pay him rent for April. “I know what it is to go hungry. I have had my own struggles in life. I do not want any of these families to suffer during this crunch time,” says Koduri Balalingam, who lives in Balanagar. His buildings have one-bedroom houses which are rented to industrial workers, mostly from Bihar. The total rent he has waived off came to Rs 3.4 lakh. “If the lockdown continues and they have no means of earning, I will think of waiving rent for the next month as well,” he told STOI. In addition to waiving off the rents, he has also distributed Rs 2.5 lakh among 250 poor families both in Telangana and Andhra Pradesh. But donating money is not new for Balalingam, who hails from Rajapeta village in Telangana’s Rajanna Sircilla district. From the time he set up his own mechanical workshop at Balanagar in 2005, he has contributed a total of Rs 1.20 crore to people in need. This includes granting scholarships to meritorious students, installing a water plant in his village, helping families of RTC workers who were on strike and paying salaries for volunteers to assist with their teaching in government schools. Growing up as an intermediate in Kamareddy, he says he he had no money to support himself. So he worked in a bar cleaning utensils. During holidays in 1996, he came to Hyderabad with his friend and worked as a helper in a lathe machine workshop in Balanagar. He worked for nine years in various workshops and then set up his own in 2005. Now, he provides employment to 10 workers. “I gave my first donation of Rs 1 lakh to feed the poor when I myself was running a debt of Rs 5 lakh. So, it is in my nature to help others,” he says. With CM K Chandrasekhar Rao urging house owners to be considerate towards tenants, Balalingam did what came to him naturally. Of the premises that he has let out, there are 25 shutters and 50 small one-bedroom houses and a couple of two-bedroom houses.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/amid-lockdown-hyd-landlord-waives-off-rent-for-75-tenants/articleshow/75102575.cms||Ch Sushil Rao
April 12, 2020||Nagpur||Maharashtra government goes back on its word, no subsidized ration for APL families in April||NAGPUR: The state government has flattered to deceive the above poverty line (APL) families having a difficult time due to the lockdown. Chief minister Uddhav Thackeray had announced that these families would get subsidized ration on the lines of below poverty line (BPL) people during the lockdown period. However, the government resolution (GR) issued in this regard states that they will get subsidized ration in May and June, and not April. Former energy minister Chandrashekhar Bawankule has strongly condemned the government for the decision. “The APL families need rations now and not in May and June when there will be no lockdown in all likelihood. How will they survive the month now that the lockdown has been extended till April 30? The government has played a cruel joke on people,” he told TOI. Bawankule demanded that APL families be immediately provided subsidized rations for March and April immediately. The former minister further that the annual family income of APL saffron card holders was between Rs10,000 and Rs1 lakh. “Most of them are unable to earn even their regular income. Under such conditions, they desperately need help from the government,” he added. The GR states that APL families are to be given 3kg wheat per person at the rate of Rs8 per kg and 2kg rice at the rate of Rs 12 per kg. The same rates are applicable to BPL beneficiaries. According to the GR, there are 71.54 lakh APL families holding saffron ration cards and there are 3.08 crore beneficiaries. For this purpose, minimum support price (MSP) is to be paid to Food Corporation of India (FCI) at the rate of Rs2,684 per quintal for wheat and Rs3,727 per quintal for rice. The stock is to be lifted and distributed among ration shops. The GR further states that even if a saffron card has not been registered in the government database or it has not been linked with Aadhaar card, then too the holder is to be provided ration at government rates.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/state-government-goes-back-on-its-word-no-subsidized-ration-for-apl-families-in-april/articleshow/75102271.cms||Ashish Roy
April 12, 2020||Dehradun||DSCL launches app for officials to track Covid-19 cases||Dehradun: A coronavirus health monitoring system was launched by Dehradun Smart City Limited (DSCL) on Saturday for fast information transfer to the officials involved in monitoring of Covid-19-positive patients kept under isolation. The application has been designed to facilitate officials at the district, tehsil, and block levels. They can get alerts regarding the location of Covid-19 patients kept under isolation. Besides, the dashboard will also provide real-time data like the total number of coronavirus patients in the district, total suspected cases, and the age-wise distribution of patients along with the details of the hospitals where these patients are admitted. The real-time data will be updated by officials at the tehsil and block level. In addition, the IGIS Geo-Locator app (developed by DSCL) will be installed on the mobile phones of Covid-19-positive patients and suspected cases kept under quarantine. The app will help the administration in providing necessary supplies to the patients and people kept under observation. The app will also send an alert to the officials in case any patient moves out of the permitted area. Ashish Srivastava, chief executive officer of DSCL, told TOI, “The application will help in keeping a track on all the information related to the work being done to contain the virus. The real-time data will help the officials to plan their work better and provide best of the services to the people in need.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/dscl-launches-app-for-officials-to-track-covid-19-cases/articleshow/75101739.cms||---
April 12, 2020||Vadodara||Vadodara under pandemic siege||Vadodara: Vadodara recorded highest single-day surge in number of Covid-19 cases with reports of as many as 36 suspects testing positive within 24 hours until Saturday evening. With this, the total number of positive cases in the city has touched 95. Like Thursday and Friday, majority of the positive cases surfaced from Nagarwada-Saiyedpura area that has been declared red zone when the first case emerged from the densely populated locality last week. On Thursday, the city had recorded 21 while on Friday, 20 new positive cases. With the addition of 36 new cases, the total number of cases just from these localities has touched 84 in less than a week. Vadodara district collector Shalini Agrawal informed that all the positive cases have come after mass sampling was carried out in Nagarwada-Saiyedpura which has been declared as containment zone. Results of other samples collected from the area are still pending. “Collection of samples have also started from areas bordering Nagarwada, Jubilee Baug and Tandalja areas of the city,” she said, adding that just from Nagarwada-Saiyedpura, 443 samples were collected as a part of mass sampling drive till Friday evening. Health teams have started collecting samples of areas bordering Nagarwada, officials said. All the patients are under treatment at GMERS Medical College and Hospital at Gotri which has been declared COVID-19 hospital for central Gujarat. Of the 95 who have tested positive so far, two have died while seven patients were discharged after recovery.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/vadodara-under-pandemic-siege/articleshow/75101769.cms||---
April 12, 2020||Thiruvananthapuram||Ready to fight Covid-19 but won’t rejoin, says Kannan||Thiruvananthapuram: Kannan Gopinathan, who has submitted his resignation from the Indian Administrative Service to make his voice heard against the suspension of civil rights in Jammu and Kashmir, has been served notice by the central government to join back the service. The administrator of Dadra and Nagar Haveli, where Kannan was serving before he submitted his resignation last year, has issued a notice to him to report for the duty in the wake of Covid-19 outbreak in the country. However, he stood firm on his stand that he has already submitted his resignation and there is no question of joining back. “I am ready to work anywhere if the government wants me to voluntarily as a responsible citizen of the society, but no more as an IAS officer. I have already submitted my resignation and there is no question of rejoining the service,” Kannan told STOI over the phone. In his formal reply to the notice, he said that he has already submitted his resignation in August last year, and accordingly the government has not been processing his salary since then. Under these circumstances, he has no obligation to reply to the notice, he said. He further said that he has been extending his services to governmental and non-governmental agencies to fight the pandemic. He also later tweeted that the letter was not sent to him in good faith or intention, but as a tool for further harassment. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/thiruvananthapuram/ready-to-fight-covid-19-but-wont-rejoin-says-kannan/articleshow/75101043.cms||---
April 12, 2020||Madurai||Unfinished crackers go off at night, destroy fireworks unit||Madurai: A blast in a chorsa filling unit in Vellaipottal village near Vathirairuppu in Virudhunagar district destroyed a 1,750 square feet room late Thursday night. Police sources said there were no casualties or injuries in the incident as the unit was vacant due to the lockdown and as it was late in the night. The incident came to light only later on Friday. Petroleum and Explosives Safety (PESO) has decided to cancel the licence of the unit till the damaged building is brought down, reconstructed and approval is obtained to resume operations. The building measuring 20.5m in length and 8m in width had a lightning arrester. PESO’s deputy chief controller of explosives, Sivakasi, K Sundaresan, who visited the place on Saturday said that around 200 chorsa rings, on which the single laris crackers are lined up for filling chemicals, went off. “Each ring has 600 to 650 single chorsa and they went off in the impact of the lightning,” he said. Stating that it is mandatory to take semi-finished fireworks to a separate room from the filling room to avoid such incidents, he suspected that the semi-finished chorsa rings would have been left at the filling room unattended due to the lockdown. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/unfinished-crackers-go-off-at-night-destroy-fireworks-unit/articleshow/75102279.cms||---
April 12, 2020||Ahmedabad||Ahmedabad: Six held for playing gilli-danda, five caught for playing volleyball||AHMEDABAD: As enforcement of the lockdown gets stricter, Sola and Ghatlodia police arrested 11 persons in two separate cases for playing games on Friday. Five people were caught playing volleyball at Jyot Residency in Sola, while six people were caught playing gilli danda on the terrace of Alfa Flats in Ghatlodia on Friday night. According to Sola police sources, while patrolling the area on Friday evening, they noticed that some youths had gathered on the grounds of Jyot Residency and were playing volleyball. “These youths were Nishhay Patel, Harshil Thakkar, Chintan Gondaliya, Hardik Patel and Karan Patel, all residents of Jyot Residency. We arrested them for violating the lockdown under Section 188 of IPC and 135 of the Gujarat Police Act,” added a Sola police official. Acting on a tip-off, Ghatlodia police arrested six youths, Kalam Ansari, Mohammed Salam, Naushad Ansari, Mahtaj Yasin, Mohammed Alam and Mohammed Amir Alam, for playing gilli danda on the terrace of Alfa Flats in Ghatlodia. They were also arrested under Section 188 of IPC and 135 of the Gujarat Police Act,” said a Ghatlodia police official.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/6-held-for-playing-gilli-danda-5-caught-for-playing-volleyball/articleshow/75102313.cms||---
April 12, 2020||Hyderabad||NIT Warangal bags project on Covid-19||HYDERABAD: National Institute of Technology-Warangal (NITW) has bagged the High Performance Computing Consortium project, which focuses on tackling Covid-19. This is a project consortium provides researchers high performance computing facilities available at NASA, IBM, Google Cloud, Microsoft and MIT among others.  The NIT Warangal team said that computational studies on virus SARS-CoV-2 responsible for COVID-19 disease will be carried in a controlled environment of temperature and humidity. This will help experimentalists understand transmission of SARS-CoV-2 at molecular level.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/nit-warangal-bags-project-on-covid-19/articleshow/75102278.cms||---
April 12, 2020||Nagpur||Mahagenco plant using banned chlorine for sewage treatment||Nagpur: Even though Mahagenco earns a lot of money from its coal-burning power plants in Koradi and Khaparkheda, it has scant regard for life of Nagpurians. Not only is it taking its own time in installing flue gas desulphurizers (FGDs) at the two plants, it is using chlorine at its Bhandewadi sewage treatment plant (STP) instead of ozone. Maharashtra Pollution Control Board (MPCB) had banned use of chlorine in STPs way back in 2010. Due to poor flyash management, flyash from the two power plants frequently gets discharged into Kanhan river affecting the water supply of half the city. Due to use of chlorine, the lives of over 500 students of two schools near the STP are at risk. The heads of two schools had written to the STP operator in February 2017 itself asking it to stop using chlorine. This, however, had no effect on power officials. The operator has been suggesting change in use of technology but Mahagenco is not bothered. When TOI contacted Mahagenco spokesperson Yashwant Mohite for his company’s reaction, he denied receiving any letter from the operator, a consortium of GSJ Envo and SMS Infrastructure. TOI has copies of several communications between Mahagenco and the consortium and also internal correspondence of Mahagenco in this regard. Following letters from principal of Uday Vidyalaya va Kanishth Mahavidyalaya and headmaster of Gawli Uccha Prathamik Vidyalaya, the consortium on March 25, 2017, wrote to deputy chief engineer (civil) of Koradi power plant (expansion). The letter states disinfection by ozone was proposed in the original bid for construction and operation of the STP. However, during tendering process the clause was changed to “Chlorine will be applied as disinfectant.” Therefore chlorine was being used. It further said MPCB had vide a letter dated September 17, 2010, instructed all hotels, resorts, swimming pools and STPs to switch over to ozone and discontinue use of chlorine. GSJ Envo therefore urged Mahagenco to replace chlorination system with an ozonisation plant. “We also request them to indemnify us until such time by issuing an indemnity signed by the competent authority, as the plant is under operation under hazardous condition,” the letter stated. Correspondence between Mahagenco and GSJ has been continuing since last three years with no result. A letter sent by Mahagenco to GSJ on January 16, 2018, states the operator should submit a detailed scheme of ozonisation system or any other safe technology. The latest communication in this matter is dated February 13, 2020. The chief engineer (civil), Koradi, has written to the deputy CE (civil) seeking a note for appraisal of the CE.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/mahagenco-plant-using-banned-chlorine-for-sewage-treatment/articleshow/75108276.cms||Ashish Roy
April 12, 2020||Amaravati||Andhra Pradesh deputy CM blames Tablighi Jamaat for Covid-19; apologises later||TIRUPATI: Andhra Pradesh deputy chief minister K Narayanaswamy on Saturday accused the Tablighi Jamaat of spreading coronavirus but later retracted his statement as his video blaming the principal minority community went viral on social media. Narayanaswamy’s statement comes a week after chief minister YS Jaganmohan Reddy appealed to people not to communalise the coronavirus issue. “I am withdrawing my comments made earlier in the day. My intention was not to hurt the sentiments of people of any particular faith,” Narayanaswamy told TOI. Narayanaswamy, who chaired a review meeting with excise department officials at the sub-collector’s office in Tirupati on Saturday, accused the Tablighi Jamaat of spreading the novel coronavirus by ‘‘licking spoons and plates”. The deputy chief minister may have fallen prey to a fake video, which was widely circulated on social media, showing a group of Muslims eating leftover food from spoons and plates. The video was debunked as fake. Stating that he was not averse to Muslims, Narayanaswamy said AP would have only a few coronavirus positive cases had the virus not spread to the state by people attending the Tablighi meeting in Delhi. When contacted, Narayanaswamy told TOI that his only concern at a time when the state is witnessing a spike in coronavirus cases, Muslims should stay safe by adopting social distancing guidelines. “They should cooperate with the state government and strictly adhere to doctors’ advice to prevent further outbreak of the pandemic," he said. TJR Sudhakar Babu, YSRCP spokesperson, said the the meeting was accidental. "I have not seen the statement of the deputy chief minister, but there was nothing like uncleanliness to blame the participant,” he told TOI.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/amaravati/ap-dy-cm-blames-tj-for-covid-19-apologises-later/articleshow/75103272.cms||---
April 12, 2020||Vijayawada||Andhra Pradesh deputy CM blames Tablighi Jamaat for Covid-19; apologises later||TIRUPATI: Andhra Pradesh deputy chief minister K Narayanaswamy on Saturday accused the Tablighi Jamaat of spreading coronavirus but later retracted his statement as his video blaming the principal minority community went viral on social media. Narayanaswamy’s statement comes a week after chief minister YS Jaganmohan Reddy appealed to people not to communalise the coronavirus issue. “I am withdrawing my comments made earlier in the day. My intention was not to hurt the sentiments of people of any particular faith,” Narayanaswamy told TOI. Narayanaswamy, who chaired a review meeting with excise department officials at the sub-collector’s office in Tirupati on Saturday, accused the Tablighi Jamaat of spreading the novel coronavirus by ‘‘licking spoons and plates”. The deputy chief minister may have fallen prey to a fake video, which was widely circulated on social media, showing a group of Muslims eating leftover food from spoons and plates. The video was debunked as fake. Stating that he was not averse to Muslims, Narayanaswamy said AP would have only a few coronavirus positive cases had the virus not spread to the state by people attending the Tablighi meeting in Delhi. When contacted, Narayanaswamy told TOI that his only concern at a time when the state is witnessing a spike in coronavirus cases, Muslims should stay safe by adopting social distancing guidelines. “They should cooperate with the state government and strictly adhere to doctors’ advice to prevent further outbreak of the pandemic," he said. TJR Sudhakar Babu, YSRCP spokesperson, said the the meeting was accidental. "I have not seen the statement of the deputy chief minister, but there was nothing like uncleanliness to blame the participant,” he told TOI.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/ap-dy-cm-blames-tj-for-covid-19-apologises-later/articleshow/75104607.cms||---
April 12, 2020||Hyderabad||Andhra Pradesh deputy CM blames Tablighi Jamaat for Covid-19; apologises later||TIRUPATI: Andhra Pradesh deputy chief minister K Narayanaswamy on Saturday accused the Tablighi Jamaat of spreading coronavirus but later retracted his statement as his video blaming the principal minority community went viral on social media. Narayanaswamy’s statement comes a week after chief minister YS Jaganmohan Reddy appealed to people not to communalise the coronavirus issue. “I am withdrawing my comments made earlier in the day. My intention was not to hurt the sentiments of people of any particular faith,” Narayanaswamy told TOI. Narayanaswamy, who chaired a review meeting with excise department officials at the sub-collector’s office in Tirupati on Saturday, accused the Tablighi Jamaat of spreading the novel coronavirus by ‘‘licking spoons and plates”. The deputy chief minister may have fallen prey to a fake video, which was widely circulated on social media, showing a group of Muslims eating leftover food from spoons and plates. The video was debunked as fake. Stating that he was not averse to Muslims, Narayanaswamy said AP would have only a few coronavirus positive cases had the virus not spread to the state by people attending the Tablighi meeting in Delhi. When contacted, Narayanaswamy told TOI that his only concern at a time when the state is witnessing a spike in coronavirus cases, Muslims should stay safe by adopting social distancing guidelines. “They should cooperate with the state government and strictly adhere to doctors’ advice to prevent further outbreak of the pandemic," he said. TJR Sudhakar Babu, YSRCP spokesperson, said the the meeting was accidental. "I have not seen the statement of the deputy chief minister, but there was nothing like uncleanliness to blame the participant,” he told TOI.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/ap-dy-cm-blames-tj-for-covid-19-apologises-later/articleshow/75102284.cms||---
April 12, 2020||Dehradun||Nainital admin to take over 6 pvt hosts||Nainital: The Nainital district administration announced on Saturday that it will take over six private hospitals in the district for treatment of patients not affected by novel Coronavirus. The district administration officials told TOI that the decision to take over these hospitals was taken as the Dr Susheela Tiwari Hospital (STH), Kumaon's biggest hospital, has been turned into a Covid-19 specialist center and is not treating patients suffering from any other disease. “The STH has been turned into a specialist hospital for novel coronavirus. Therefore, there have been complaints that the patients suffering from other diseases have not been receiving proper treatments. As we need more hospitals the decision has been taken under the provisions of Disaster Management Act as well as the Epidemic Disease Act 1897,” said Nainital district magistrate (DM), Savin Bansal. The hospitals identified by the administration include, Brijlal Hospital, Krishna Hospital, Neelkanth Hospital, Vivekanand Hospital, Sai Hospital and Central Hospital. All of these are in the Haldwani area. The administration said that the chief medical officer of the district has already been ordered to take stock of the infrastructure in these hospitals as well as to provide training to the hospital staff about the threat of Coronavirus. “The hospital staff will continue working as per their existing roster and the hospital administration will make sure that the patients who have been referred from the government hospital are admitted to the hospital without any hassle. Meanwhile, we have also ordered the hospital pharmacies to continue to be open,” the DM said, adding that in cases of emergency even the patients suffering from Covid-19 can be admitted to these hospitals. An order from the district magistrate’s office also said that in case any of the doctors, medical staff or management officials are found to be behaving irresponsibly in the private hospitals, they will be booked under the provisions of the Disaster Management Act, Clinical Establishments (Registration and Regulation) Act Medical Council Act as well as other relevant sections of the Indian Penal Code.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/nainital-admin-to-take-over-6-pvt-hosts/articleshow/75101761.cms||Prashant Jha
April 12, 2020||Thiruvananthapuram||Kudumbashree to make TMC shield developed by medicos||Thiruvananthapuram: The Kudumbashree project has stepped forward to mass produce TMC shield, a protective gear that can be used by medical staff engaged in treatment of Covid-19 patients. TMC shield is a special mask developed by PG doctors of Government Medical College Hospital, Thiruvananthapuram. This shield, according to its developers, would protect the N-95 mask and goggles worn by doctors and medical staff from becoming carriers of the virus through droplets. Though the doctors and medical staff wear personal protective equipment (PPE), the mask and goggles along with it have a possibility of becoming carriers of virus through droplets from the patients when they cough or sneeze. The shield can be used only once and the team of doctors who developed it are forced to work overtime to supply sufficient number of shields to the staff here. It is at this juncture, the Kudumbashree project has stepped up to assist them. Kudumbashree executive director S Harikishore said a self-help group under Kudumbashree at Karakullam village has been trained for the mass production of TMC shield. The doctors, who developed the TMC shield, visited the unit, Akshayam, which is originally involved in the production of LED bulbs. “We are planning to manufacture 1,000 TMC shields in the first batch. We expect to complete the production and hand over the first batch by Wednesday,’’ Harikishore said, adding that the TMC shields manufactured by Kudumbashree workers will be used by doctors and medical staff at Thiruvananthapuram Government Medical College. The production cost of each TMC shield is below Rs 10. Polyform sheets, cloth and overhead projector film are the raw materials needed for the manufacture of TMC shield. The unit engaged in the manufacture have already been supplied with sufficient raw materials, he said. “If we get a government sanction, we will make arrangements to manufacture the protective gear for government hospitals across the state. For that, more Kudumbashree units will have to be trained,’’ Harikishore said. TMC shields was developed by Dr Muhammed, a third-year PG student of Thiruvananthapuram Government Medical College Hospital, along with junior doctors Rihana Basheer, Mariyam, Ritwik and Sona. Dr Rihana Basheer is the wife of Dr Muhammed. Dr Ritwik and Dr Sona are also a couple.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/thiruvananthapuram/kudumbashree-to-make-tmc-shield-developed-by-medicos/articleshow/75101052.cms||---
April 12, 2020||Hyderabad||Officials warn 48 families in RK Puram cluster||Hyderabad: Amid reports that containment clusters have not strictly adhered to the guidelines, public representatives and health officials on Saturday visited a containment cluster at RK Puram where 48 families are residing. They warned the residents of stringent action if they flout the Covid-19 containment norms. They barred members of the 48 families from stepping out even to purchase essential items and said the onus to ensure daily supplies rests with the newly-appointed nodal officer of the area. Barricades were placed all around the area. Urging the residents to cooperate with the autorities, RK Puram corporator Radha Veerannagari said the containment guidelines were mandatory. A GHMC LB Nagar zone official said the home quarantine duration would be decided once screening of people in all the houses is completed. Mayor Bonthu Rammohan warned that cases would be booked against residents if they even step out. “We will provide them with all the essentials and monitor their activities from the Covid-19 control room at the GHMC head office,” he said. Some residents have already been screened by auxiliary nurse midwives. This was done after a Covid-19 positive case was detected in the area.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/officials-warn-48-families-in-rk-puram-cluster/articleshow/75102282.cms||---
April 12, 2020||Ahmedabad||Gujarat: Footfalls at Jetalsar APMC swell||AHMEDABAD: Not only has the number of vegetable buyers at the Jetalsar APMC doubled, so has supply of vegetables. Many people who earlier had small shops or roadside businesses have turned into vegetable vendors. Deepak Patel, the chairman of the APMC, said that the number of footfalls at Jetalsar has doubled from normal days. “We realised this and when we tried to find out the cause for the bigger crowds, we found that there were now many new traders. NGO and charitable groups are alos being seen buying vegetables in large numbers. They are buying wholesale so they can feed more mouths,” he said. That there are 200-odd CNG rickshaws coming to Jetalsar every day indicates that the number or buyers is rising. There are also more loading rickshaw as compared to Jamalpur APMC. “We have identified loading rickshaws from Mehmadabad, Nadiad and other nearby towns here as well. Patel said not just footfalls, but supply of vegetables was also increasing. At the Jamalpur APMC, supply of vegetables was about 12,000 quintals a day, at Jetalsar this number is 20,000, with more farmers coming in too. Meanwhile, the meeting of APMC officials and commission agents, who are asking that the markets be closed, remained inconclusive. Ishaq Qureshi, vice-president of the Ahmedabad Vegetable General Commission Agents Association said that they have proposed that the market be divided into smaller units so that the crowd is distributed. We have asked them to make spaces unavailable at places like bus stands or the Gujarat University open plot. Qureshi said social distancing is not being followed at the market and 80% of those there do not wear masks. The authorities had promised a lot of restrictions, but nothing has been implemented, he said. Another dealer who asked not to be named said, “We have seen buyers coming from the walled city coming to buy vegetables. The walled city area has been cluster quarantined and has several cases,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/footfalls-at-jetalsar-apmc-swell/articleshow/75102311.cms||Himanshu Kaushik
April 12, 2020||Delhi||Delhi Covid-19 lockdown: Small vendors being turned away||NEW DELHI: Local vegetable vendors have been the lifeline for people during the lockdown, delivering greens to the doorstep of residents which ensures there is no crowding at the local bazaars. However, social distancing norms being implemented in the local mandis by the administration and the police is leading to many vendors being turned away. On Sunday, many areas in south Delhi didn’t get fresh vegetables because the vendors couldn’t procure fresh stocks. There are hundreds of such vendors who are not registered with the civic bodies and are unable to get e-passes. Thirty-year-old Rajesh, who has been getting vegetables from Okhla mandi for years now, was turned away from the Govindpuri metro station, along with others, by a police team on Sunday morning. They asked him to approach a retailer to get the vegetables or procure a pass. That’s a virtually impossible task for the small vendors. The police say they have had to stop the local vendors from reaching the wholesale markets since social distancing norms were not being followed. “There are hundreds of such small vendors who reach the markets with carts between 1 am and 8am. Since none of them has any pass or permission, they are no different from an individual person buying from a wholesaler. There were complaints of crowding at these markets,” said a senior police officer. Another seller, Raj Bahadur, who had planned to form a group with some of his neighbours and go to the wholesale market in a vehicle was similarly stopped. “We will be losing our livelihood if this continues,” he said in despair. “Even the small shop owners at the markets manage to get a pass as they have registration. Since we sell vegetable from carts, we cannot get any pass. What should we do?” This situation can lead to an artificial shortage, crowding at the local markets, panic buying and an eventual rise in prices. The Agricultural Produce Marketing Committee (APMC) secretary, Tanvir Ahmed, told TOI that the decision to restrict the movement of small retailers was taken after a sudden spike in the number of small buyers at Okhla mandi. "We have decided to issue tokens from Monday to retailers for entering the mandi. These tokens will be given out on the basis of e-passes issues by the district administration. This will ensure that only genuine vendors enter the mandi and social distancing is maintained," he said. He added that the vendors will be allowed to enter the mandi only between 10pm and 6am. This, said Ahmed, will also check crowding at the Okhla mandi. “This mandi witnesses a huge rush between 6am and 8am when members of the general public also reach here to buy fruits and vegetables. The new timing will ensure that only vendors come to the mandi and people buy vegetables from retailers," Ahmed said. The cops are passing the buck to the APMC, saying that if a temporary pass is issued to the vendors by the committee after checking their antecedents, they would be allowed to enter the wholesale markets. Another measure that the authorities had tried to adopt was making it mandatory for people not to purchase less than 5kg of any item. This was to ensure that only bulk buyers are allowed to go in. The vendors say that, if necessary, they can abide by this though the demand for different items is not uniform. However, for now, it seems that no one will be allowed to enter without an e pass. “We have been trying to bring some order to the wholesale markets that have turned into major points of congregation. If a system put in place, we will abide by it,” said a police officer.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/small-vendors-being-turned-away/articleshow/75113243.cms||---
April 12, 2020||Nagpur||Pune Metro’s coaches may not be assembled near Nagpur||Nagpur: MahaMetro’s dreams to assemble coaches of Pune Metro near Nagpur may be dashed as it is yet to get land for setting up an assembly plant. MahaMetro had sought land from both the Jawaharlal Nehru Port Trust (JNPT) and MIDC but has not got any response so far. International bids for the supply of 102 coaches for Pune Metro has been awarded to Titagarh Firema, an Indian company in a joint venture (JV) with an Italian firm. The JV will supply 102 ultra modern state-of-the-art aluminium bodied coaches. As per the agreement, 25% of the coaches will be manufactured at their plant in Italy and the balance 75% will be produced and commissioned at the MahaMetro coach manufacturing plant near Nagpur. If this happens, it will be for first time that aluminium bodied coaches will be manufactured in India. The delivery of Pune Metro coaches will start from January 2021. There is little chance that MahaMetro’s plant will be ready by then. Jawaharlal Nehru Port Trust (JNPT), which is developing a dry port in Sindi, is the main culprit. MahaMetro had submitted a proposal for acquiring 50 acres land for the plant in September 2018. So far JNPT officials have not done anything. Fed up, MahaMetro officials then sought land from MIDC in Butibori. So far it is yet to get that land too. Metro had approached MIDC when Devendra Fadnavis was chief minister. He had promised to provide the land fast. However, Fadnavis then got busy with Mahajanadesh Yatra and then the election code of conduct came into force. As a result, the proposal could not move forward. Now it is up to the new government to provide land. The detailed project report (DPR) of the plant is ready and according to it, the first phase of the plant will cost Rs100 crore for the construction of the boundary wall and sheds and for buying cranes. The coach supplier will bring the remaining equipment to the plant site. Pune Metro needs 102 coaches. A 10% discount will be given on the coaches assembled at the plant. It is an initiative under the ‘Make in India’ policy of the central government. The DPR also states that 40% of the material used in the coaches will have to be procured indigenously. This percentage will increase in the future tenders.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/pune-metros-coaches-may-not-be-assembled-near-nagpur/articleshow/75108296.cms||Ashish Roy
April 12, 2020||Madurai||Tamil Nadu: Tipsy man climbs up EB tower at night, onlookers ask him where he got the bottle||MADURAI: An inebriated man in Sivaganga district tried to enact a Veeru from the epic film Sholay by climbing an electric tower after quarrelling with his wife, but ended up plunging an entire area into darkness for over three hours. Jeeva, 27, son of a Sri Lankan refugee from the refugee camp in Pudukottai, was married to Muthulakshmi of Okkur in Sivaganga. As the man was addicted to liquor, the couple quarrelled often. After one such fiery face-off on Friday night, the man went out and climbed up the electric tower on Melamangalam road in Okkur. On being alerted, TNEB personnel cut off supply to the tower immediately. Fire service personnel and tahsildar Mayilavathi rushed to the spot only to see Jeeva precariously perched on the tower. Even as police tried to convince him to come down, a fire service man surreptitiously climbed up and caught hold of him. He was brought down and handed over to the Madagupatti police which registered a case against him. Meanwhile, some of the men in the crowd of onlookers were keen to know how he had access to alcohol during the lockdown, something the police are probing too. Power supply in Okkur and Kalayarkoil area was suspended for over three hours due to the man’s misadventure.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/residents-spend-3-hrs-in-dark-as-tipsy-man-scales-eb-tower/articleshow/75102283.cms||---
April 12, 2020||Madurai||Chithirai fest may be nixed if lockdown is extended||Madurai: The famous Chithirai festival of the Sri Meenakshi Sundareswarar temple which witnesses lakhs of devotees would be cancelled this year if the lockdown is extended. This year, the flag hoisting ceremony for the Chithirai festival was slated to be held on April 25. The celestial wedding, the culminating event of the festival was scheduled on May 4. “It is really disheartening to even think that this festival would be cancelled. I have been witnessing it every year religiously since 1980. It is something that I look forward to as soon as the new year begins,” said K Deivanai, 80, a resident of Simmakkal.“It was conducted regularly ever since the rule of King Thirumalai Naicker, as he organized it as a big event by linking the Meenakshi temple and Alagarkoil temple,” temple sources said. Joint commissioner of the Meenakshi temple said they are awaiting the government’s order on the conduct of the festival. If the lockdown is extended the festival cannot be held, he said. As of now, priests are conducting the pujas six times a day.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/chithirai-fest-may-be-nixed-if-lockdown-is-extended/articleshow/75102280.cms||---
April 12, 2020||Dehradun||Doctor found dead inside his car in US Nagar||Rudrapur: A 48-year-old doctor was found dead inside his car which was parked outside his clinic in city’s Awas Vikas colony. A resident of the locality noticed the body late on Friday night. The body has been sent for postmortem examination and the exact cause of death can only be ascertained after the report comes in. Meanwhile, the police officials say that the doctor may have died of cardiac failure as no injury marks were found on his body. The deceased was identified as Dr Gyan Prakash Bhardwaj, a resident of Batra Colony. Kailash Chandra Bhatt, SHO city police station, said that upon investigation it was found that Dr Bhardwaj had left his house for clinic on Friday morning at 10 am. He reached his clinic but did not get out of the car. At around midnight, a neighbour noticed the car and found Dr Bhardwaj lying unconscious and informed the police and doctor’s kin. "We have launched a probe as his body had turned blue when we recovered it,” said SHO Bhatt. The official added that it is too early to comment on the nature of the death and they are awaiting autopsy report. Notably, Dr Bhardwaj also ran a social organisation named "Guriji Seva Samiti" and used to provide free counselling and medication to people.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/doctor-found-dead-inside-his-car-in-us-nagar/articleshow/75101771.cms||Aakash Ahuja
April 12, 2020||Madurai||One new case in southern districts||Madurai: Only one positive case was reported in the southern districts on Saturday taking the total number of cases in the region to 237. This comes as a relief as there were more than 10 cases every day in the 10 districts over the last few days, while three deaths have occurred in Madurai, Theni and Tuticorin. On Saturday, a man from Dindigul tested positive taking the total number of cases in the district to 55. Meanwhile, a Covid-19 screening kiosk, which will help the medical staff to screen patients without getting infected, was installed at the Dindigul government hospital on Saturday. The kiosk is equipped with a pair of gloves and exhaust fan and the medical practitioner can take samples without touching the patient. The gloves would be replaced periodically. It will ensure that the doctor and patient do not come into contact with each other. Another kiosk will be established in the Palani government hospital soon. The district administration is taking efforts to create awareness among the public on the importance of social distancing and personal hygiene. Paintings stressing the various preventing measures against Covid-19 have been painted on the streets and roads of the panchayats in various parts of the district. Dindigul district collector has urged the public to come forward to avail the assorted groceries bags for Rs 1,000 and Rs 2,000 and win prizes.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/one-new-case-in-southern-districts/articleshow/75102286.cms||---
April 12, 2020||India||PM Narendra Modi brings the modest gamchha into spotlight||NEW DELHI: On Saturday, PM Narendra Modi brought the modest, multi-purpose gamchha into the spotlight. While video conferencing with chief ministers across India on Covid-19, the PM covered his face with the desi stole to highlight and underline its usage as an affordable and easily available protective gear for millions of ordinary people. The PM, in his recent conversations, has repeatedly spoken about using homemade options to cover faces as a replacement for masks. The gamchha – best described as a thin cotton towel -- is popular in various avatars in states such as Bihar, east Uttar Pradesh, Bengal and Assam, where it is also offered as a gift to honoured guests. Farmhands, landowners, contractors, daily wagers, rickshaw pullers and porters -- the accessory is used by both the well-heeled and the underclass as an improvised, makeshift defence against extreme heat and biting cold. In Bollywood, Amitabh Bachchan used the gamchha with relish in Manmohan Desai’s Coolie (1983). Director Anurag Kashyap turned it into an object of upwardly-mobile cool in The Gangs of Wasseypur (2012). He wore it to the Cannes Film Festival. The Times of India has been actively spearheading a campaign, #MaskIndia, to encourage people to use homemade face masks as a preventive measure against Covid-19. Soon after the PM’s interaction with state chief ministers, the Union government issued an advisory about use of homemade masks, emphasising on importance of its regular cleaning and clarifying that homemade masks were advisable for common people but not for those involved in healthcare. In a telephonic conversation with BJP’s Varanasi district president Hansraj Vishwakarma on Thursday, Modi had suggested use of towel or scarf (gamchha) in place of masks as a precaution against the virus. Modi is the Lok Sabha MP from Varanasi. “Instead of masks, use of gamchha will be more effective. There is no point wasting time and money on masks, which are required for doctors and the medical staff,” Modi suggested and asked the BJP politician to inspire others do so. A day after Modi’s advice, the district administration allowed the use of gamchha in his constituency and now several states have allowed its use. Referring to the PM’s advice, district magistrate Kaushal Raj Sharma circulated a message in a WhatsApp group for officials and media that “no action would be taken against those using gamchha (at public places)”. “The PM has emphasised the use of scarf and encouraged people for maximum use of gamchha. It would be treated as mask,” the DM said. In the last few days, several state governments have made it mandatory for people to cover their faces while venturing out of their houses. Watch #MaskIndia: PM Modi uses homemade mask during CMs' meeting||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/pm-narendra-modi-brings-the-modest-gamchha-into-spotlight/articleshow/75102752.cms||Akhilesh Singh
April 12, 2020||Pune||Trainee doctors to stay at Inspection Bungalow in Pune||PUNE: The district administration has made arrangements to accommodate doctors, nurses, and grade III and IV employees of Sassoon General Hospital at two small hotels and the Inspection Bungalow in the city. Efforts to accommodate the staff at larger hotel chains were met with hostility, officials stated. Thanks to timely intervention by the Dalit Indian Chamber of Commerce and Industry (DICCI), a kitchen facility has also been set up overnight to provide doctors three meals a day. Requisitions are being made to acquire more hotels in case the number of cases in the city increase and a need arises to shift all medical staff to locations near the hospital, said officials. Sub-divisional officer Santosh Kumar Deshmukh and tehsildar Trupti Kolte are trying to find alternative accommodation for resident doctors and others working at Sassoon General Hospital. “Due to the nationwide lockdown, in some cases, hotel staff had gone home or they couldn’t be provided salaries. But the response from bigger hotels in the area was really bad. When we asked them, they directly said no stating that they are about to close down even though they were operating, their staff was present, the kitchen was open and there were people staying in some places. Some closed down after we had approached,” said Kolte. She added that smaller hotels agreed to provide their facility even though they weren’t staffed. “The Khandelwal hotel chain and Arvind Shinde said they would help out and gave us two facilities nearby. If the number of cases increases, we will acquire more hotels for all doctors and other staff,” Kolte said. Prashant Munde, resident doctor at Sassoon general Hospital said that at present 38 resident doctors are staying at the bungalow. “We were previously staying in a hostel but there are other doctors too residing and to prevent the chances of inspection, we have been shifted here as we tend to the Covid-19 wards. The rooms here are spacious with two of us sharing the room,” said Munde. Raju Waghmare, member of Dicci said, “The doctors moved in on Friday. The PMC sanitized the area and we got cooks and other staff together. We told them how important it is to work in such a time especially for medical staff. We started the kitchen from today and we are serving breakfast, lunch and dinner.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/trainee-docs-to-stay-at-inspection-bungalow/articleshow/75102289.cms||Ardhra Nair
April 12, 2020||Dehradun||Revenue officer electrocuted||Pithoragarh: A 41-year-old revenue officer, who had joined the service two months ago, was electrocuted in Munsyari on Saturday. Mohan Sigh Bisht was a school teacher at Kotabagh in Nainital district. He joined as ‘Nayab Tehsildar’ in February and was living at a rented house in RS Brijwal. On Saturday, he went to the terrace and accidentally touched a live wire passing through the house. “The revenue officer immediately fell on the floor and fainted after coming in contact with the live wire,” said Mahesh Joshi, Munsyari SHO. Police rushed him to a hospital where the doctors declared him as brought dead.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/revenue-officer-electrocuted/articleshow/75101779.cms||Prem Punetha
April 12, 2020||Madurai||Covid-19 sends people rushing for Vitamine C supplements||MADURAI: The demand for immunity boosters, including vitamin C supplements, siddha concoctions and even fruits such as oranges has gone up as there is a false belief among the public that it will protect them from contracting Covid-19, even though there is no scientific backing. “Recently, we found many people buying vitamin and health supplements in various forms such as powder or pills that are available over the counter. People prefer to chewable Vitamin C supplements as they believe that it will prevent respiratory illnesses. Even the costly brands are flying off the shelves,” said a pharmacist from Kamarajar Salai. Both pharmacists and doctors said that there is little concern about overdose of such supplements. “These supplements will boost immunity to a certain extent for those who are vitamin deficient. However, it is of no use to those who are already fit and healthy. It is recommended mainly to those who have co-morbid illnesses and are lacking proper nutrition,” said Dr R Ramesh, a general physician. Similarly, fruits, especially those particularly rich in vitamin C such as oranges, grapes, and guava are selling fast despite high prices. Apart from supplements, many are also finding refuge in Siddha concoctions. Recently, a Ministry of Ayush advisory recommended the use of nilavembu and kabasura kudineer concoctions to build immunity. Nilavembu is already popular for its use to prevent dengue fever. “Kabasura kudineer, which was previously known for its use to fight swine flu, is helpful to build immunity,” according to Siddha doctors. “There is a spike in the sale of kabasura kudineer powder after the ministry advisory. Through WhatsApp, many are seeing videos of doctors recommending the use of such herbal remedies to fight Covid-19 and come to buy. Even if there is no proof, it gives somewhat of a placebo effect and positivity I think,” said a pharmacist from Anna Nagar. Building immunity Recommended Vitamin C per day 90 mg for men 75 mg for women Fruits rich in Vitamin C Orange, lemon, guava, grapes, pineapple, strawberry and papaya Kabasura Kudineer dosage for prevention Children (1-12): 5-10 ml Children (13-18): 15 ml Adults: 30 ml Concoction ratio: 4:1 of water and powder (Consume within three hours)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/covid-19-sends-people-rushing-for-vitamine-c-supplements/articleshow/75102290.cms||Sukshma Ramakrishnan
April 12, 2020||Kolkata||Kolkata airport gets corona ready, won’t be same again after lockdown||KOLKATA: Travelling through airports will be a whole new experience for flyers when the facilities re-open after the lockdown. Passengers have to compulsorily wear a mask before stepping into the terminal. Travelling with a temperature will be a strict no-no. And it will be best to buy some food while waiting for the flight for on-board service is likely to undergo a sea change. A Kolkata airport official told TOI that while the airport would look familiar, the feel would be different once it reopened with multiple thermal checks to detect a possible Covid-19 suspect. “The first thermal check will be conducted after entry to the terminal. If someone is detected with fever, the person will not be allowed to proceed further and will have to report to a designated area, where the person can either cancel the travel or reschedule it ,” the official said. Some airlines, too, plan to conduct the checks to be doubly sure. This will be at twin points: one at the check-in counter and again, at the boarding gate to ensure anyone who walks in with an e-boarding pass is also scrutinized. While in the terminal, passengers will be advised to wear masks so that droplets are not spread by asymptomatic carriers. “Safety and social distancing messages will be displayed everywhere. We expect travellers to wear a mask to not only protect others but also themselves,” another official said. In the terminal itself, alternative check-in desks will be in operation with airline staff members ensuring adequate gap among passengers in queue. While there are 90 check-in desks in the domestic wing of the Kolkata airport, only 45 will be in operation at any given point of time. Also, alternative boarding gates will be allocated to flights, both with aerobridge facility and those parked in remote bays. This is to ensure adequate social distancing among passengers of a particular flight. Airport officials may even block off alternative seats in the security check area. “With the middle seat blocked in flights to adhere to social distancing norms, there will be fewer passengers on each flight. In addition, we will ensure only six of 12 boarding gates for aerobridges and three of five gates for boarding buses to go to planes parked in remote bays are open at a time,” said the official. Restaurants and food courts will not function initially with only ready-to-eat or pre-packed food being available. No live kitchen will be in operation. It will be either microwave or cold stuff. A housekeeping staff team will be specially deputed to sanitize frequent touchpoints, such as desk tops, railings, buttons in elevators and handles. Airlines will also have to sanitise buses after each trip between the terminal and a plane.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/airport-gets-corona-ready-wont-be-same-again-after-lockdown/articleshow/75102294.cms||---
April 12, 2020||Kozhikode||Mahe Covid-19 patient dies, source of infection unknown||Kannur: A 71-year-old Coivd-19 patient from Mahe, the Puducherry town bordering Kannur, identified as Mehroof P, died at Kannur Government Medical College, Pariyaram, on Saturday morning, where he had been undergoing treatment since on April 7. Mehroof, a resident of Cherukallayi in Mahe, was undergoing treatment for fever in Kannur and it was from there that the hospital authorities collected his specimen nearly one week after his admission and sent it for Covid-19 testing. However, the healthcare officials are yet to ascertain from where he contracted the disease as he had not maintained any contact with any Covid-19 patients in his knowledge. It was on March 26 that Mehroof, who had kidney and heart ailments, was taken to a local hospital in Thalassery, after he developed fever and throat pain on March 23. Later, he was admitted there on March 31 and the same evening he was shifted to a super specialty hospital near Kannur. However, it was on April 6 that the swab was taken for testing and the next day, after he tested positive, he was shifted to the medical college. Incidentally, on examining the route map of an 81-year-old patient, who is also undergoing treatment for Covid-19, it was confirmed that he had been admitted to the ICU of this super specialty hospital on April 2 and 3 with respiratory problems, before he was taken to the Kannur Government Medical College, where he tested positive. Though the hospital authorities claimed both of them had not come into contact with each other, as they were in separate wards, the health authorities are probing all aspects. The other patient got infected from his grandson who came from Sharjah on March 15. “At this point we cannot say from where he got the infection, but we are probing it,” said Kannur DMO K Narayana Nayak. The patient’s contacts in Mahe and Kannur are being identified, and there are around 113 of them, he said. Though Mahe is part of Puducherry, the place is next to Thalassery in Kannur. The body was buried at Koran Peedika Juma Masjid near Pariyaram in the afternoon. According to Union ministry of health and family welfare guidelines, the patient’s nativity and place of residence is considered while compiling the Covid-19 tally of a state. Hence, Mehroof’s is the first Covid-19 death in Puducherry.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kozhikode/mahe-covid-19-patient-dies-source-of-infection-unknown/articleshow/75101063.cms||---
April 12, 2020||Hyderabad||AI-based crowd analytics aid police to monitor mass gatherings in Telangana||HYDERABAD: In order to identify and prevent mass gatherings, as well as monitor the movement of people on the streets and public places during the lockdown period, the Telangana police is using crowd analytics. Around 335 cameras have been installed to identify the illegal assembly of people in city. The state has been in lockdown since March 23 and Section 144 of CrPC which prohibits the gathering of five or more than five persons in a place has been imposed. Based on the feed from the cameras, the Artificial Intelligence-based application analyses movement of people in real-time and generates alarms. “As the alarm is generated, the system sends an automatic SMS to the nearest police station with geo-location of the crowd. Police on patrol duty will rush to the spot and disperse the crowd and take necessary action,” Srinath Reddy, DSP, Telangana Police IT Cell, told STOI. From April 1 to 8, on an average, 350 to 450 alarms were issued in the city. According to data, the maximum number of alerts in the last 10 days were generated on April 4. For instance, on April 2, 10% of alarms were generated from Andhra Mahila Sabha Kamman area. It was followed by the nearby post office at Chaderghat Kaman, Imperial Garden Junction, Dilshuknagar bus stop, Hanuman Mandir Kolswadi crossroads and Aram Ghar. Telangana police department has been using the crowd analytics to keep an eye on protestors including during agitations, clashes and Assembly sessions. Telangana additional DG (law and order) Jitender told STOI, “During the Sammakka Saralakka Jatara of Medaram, we used crowd analytics. This helped us prevent stampedes and keep an eye on the flow of traffic and movement of devotees.” “We have capabilities and IT applications to keep a tab on illegal assembly, in violation of lockdown. We are also working on traffic analysis. If the number of vehicles increases in any area, that means lockdown is not implemented properly. We can immediately rectify it,” he added.  “Crowd analytics help police to identify the situation and react to it immediately,” said a police officer.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/ai-based-crowd-analytics-aid-police-to-monitor-mass-gatherings-in-state/articleshow/75102292.cms||U Sudhakar Reddy
April 12, 2020||Nagpur||Pune Metro’s coaches may not be assembled near Nagpur||Nagpur: MahaMetro’s dreams to assemble coaches of Pune Metro near Nagpur may be dashed as it is yet to get land for setting up an assembly plant. MahaMetro had sought land from both the Jawaharlal Nehru Port Trust (JNPT) and MIDC but has not got any response so far. International bids for the supply of 102 coaches for Pune Metro has been awarded to Titagarh Firema, an Indian company in a joint venture (JV) with an Italian firm. The JV will supply 102 ultra modern state-of-the-art aluminium bodied coaches. As per the agreement, 25% of the coaches will be manufactured at their plant in Italy and the balance 75% will be produced and commissioned at the MahaMetro coach manufacturing plant near Nagpur. If this happens, it will be for first time that aluminium bodied coaches will be manufactured in India. The delivery of Pune Metro coaches will start from January 2021. There is little chance that MahaMetro’s plant will be ready by then. Jawaharlal Nehru Port Trust (JNPT), which is developing a dry port in Sindi, is the main culprit. MahaMetro had submitted a proposal for acquiring 50 acres land for the plant in September 2018. So far JNPT officials have not done anything. Fed up, MahaMetro officials then sought land from MIDC in Butibori. So far it is yet to get that land too. Metro had approached MIDC when Devendra Fadnavis was chief minister. He had promised to provide the land fast. However, Fadnavis then got busy with Mahajanadesh Yatra and then the election code of conduct came into force. As a result, the proposal could not move forward. Now it is up to the new government to provide land. The detailed project report (DPR) of the plant is ready and according to it, the first phase of the plant will cost Rs100 crore for the construction of the boundary wall and sheds and for buying cranes. The coach supplier will bring the remaining equipment to the plant site. Pune Metro needs 102 coaches. A 10% discount will be given on the coaches assembled at the plant. It is an initiative under the ‘Make in India’ policy of the central government. The DPR also states that 40% of the material used in the coaches will have to be procured indigenously. This percentage will increase in the future tenders.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/pune-metros-coaches-may-not-be-assembled-near-nagpur/articleshow/75108298.cms||Ashish Roy
April 12, 2020||Nashik||NMC seals 600 metre area at Anandvalli, Nashik Road||Nashik: The civic administration has sealed 600 metre of the upmarket Anandvalli locality on Gangapur Road and the premises around Rajlaxmi lawns in Nashik Road on Friday night after two residents from these areas tested positive for Covid-19 on Friday evening. The health teams of Nashik Municipal Corporation (NMC) have traced as many as 26 high-risk contacts from both these localities, of which 21 are from Nashik Road and remaining 5 are from Anandvalli locality. The family members of the positive patients are also among the high-risk suspects. NMC has sealed the areas for 14 days. Moreover, it has also started conducting door-to-door survey to find out all those who came in contact with the confirmed patients as well as the high-risk contacts. While 21 teams have been deployed in Anandvalli locality, 11 have been deployed in the Nashik Road area. All the high-risk patients, including the family members of the confirmed patients, have been put in the isolations wards at Zakir Hussain hospital and a private hospital in the city respectively. An official from the civic administration said that the swab samples of all the 26 suspects have been sent to the National Institute of Virology (NIV) in Pune and their results are awaited. Civic officials said that they have sanitized the containment areas at both the locations from where the two confirmed cases were reported. Officials said a resident from Navsya Ganpati area in Anandvalli had recently travelled to Brazil. He returned around 20 days ago and stay put at his flat. “We are still looking for all the people who came in contact with him. We have isolated three of his family members as well as the maid who worked at his house to Zakir Hussain hospital and have sent the throat swab samples for testing to the lab,” said officials. 18 more suspects from the Nashik Road area have also been put in isolation at Zakir Hussain hospital. Another resident from Nashik Road area, who works in Mumbai, recently returned from the state capital. “Four of his family members have been isolated in a private hospital in the city,” said officials.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/nmc-seals-600-metre-area-at-anandvalli-nashik-road/articleshow/75102285.cms||Tushar Pawar
April 12, 2020||Ahmedabad||Main accused held in Friday’s attack on cops in Juhapura||Ahmedabad: City crime branch on Saturday nabbed Mehboob alias Thutha Pathan, the main accused in the attack on police which took place in Juhapura on Friday night. Vejalpur police have named 25 accused including Thutha’s father Qayyum Pathan in the FIR registered on Saturday morning.According to the FIR Vejalpur policewere patrolling near Apna Nagar in Juhapura and making public announcement for people not to gather on roads on Friday night. About then a mob of 40 to 50 people gathered near Al Madina Masjid and started shouting that cops were not allowing them to sit in their mohallas (neighbourhoods) too.“Thuta led the mob and started pelting stones on police vehicles. Police constables Sikander Jummabhai and Raviraj Natubha were injured in the stone pelting. Sikander was hit by a stone on his head while Natubha’s knees were injured,” said a crime branch official.Soon, police reinforcements were called in and the mob was dispersed. Vejalpur police officials said the FIR has been registered under sections 143, 147,148,332,337,186,427 and 188 of IPC and they have rounded up about 40 persons for questioning.ACP, Crime branch, Bhagirathsinh Gohil said that their team got a tip-off on Saturday morning that Thuta was hiding at a relative’s place in Juhapura.“We sent a team and arrested him. After primary questioning we have handed him over to Vejalpur police for further investigation,’’ Gohil said.Vejalpur police sources said that extra police bandobust has been deployed in the area. “On Saturday, a team of RAF did a flag march in the area. We deployed points to avoid further trouble in the area,” said a Vejalpur police official.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/main-accused-held-in-fridays-attack-on-cops-in-juhapura/articleshow/75102310.cms||---
April 12, 2020||Ahmedabad||2,832 doctors in TeCHO system||Ahmedabad: State health department officials said that they have so far integrated 2832 doctors with private practice or hospitals with the mobile-based TeCHO application. “The doctors have been asked to report severe acute respiratory illness (SARI) and influenza-like illness (ILI) they come across. It's a method to quickly identify suspected cases,” said an official. “Often, the patients first approach general practitioners. Thus, coordination iscrucial.” The state government has already formed a committee with the leading medical practitioners keeping in mind the potential explosion of cases in some pockets of Gujarat. The IMA has also pledged support . tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/2832-doctors-in-techo-system/articleshow/75102307.cms||---
April 12, 2020||Ahmedabad||Civil ward boy suspected to be infected||Ahmedabad: A ward boy at the ICU on Civil Hospital campus is suspected to have contracted Covid-19, said sources from the hospital on Saturday. Jayanti Ravi, principal secretary, told media on Saturday that the administration was looking into the case and would also probe allegations that the co-workers of the ward boy were not quarantined. Sources said that the ward boy, not part of the Covid-19 special hospital, had a cold and dry cough for the past few days. On Friday, he was sent for testing and his report came positive. The staffers also reportedly told the medical superintendent to arrange for their stay on the hospital campus but they were told that there was not enough space for all. The staff was wary of becoming silent carriers of the disease. Ravi told media that the administration would talk to the authorities and try to resolve the issue.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/civil-ward-boy-suspected-to-be-infected/articleshow/75102305.cms||---
April 12, 2020||Nashik||Man ends life fearing he had contracted infection in Nashik||NASHIK: A 31-year-old man committed suicide on Saturday morning at Nashik Road fearing that he has contracted the Covid-19 infection. The deceased has been identified as Prateek Kumawat. He was a resident of the Chehadi pumping station area in the city. The police have registered an accidental death case on the complaint registered by the father of the deceased. “A man has committed suicide out of the fear of contracting coronavirus,” said Suraj Bijali, a senior police officer at Nashik Road police. The parents of the deceased noticed that their son had hung himself at 8.30 am and they immediately summoned the police. The police said that they had found a suicide note in which the deceased claimed that he was afraid of infections and thought that he had contracted the infection and hence committed suicide. The police have further appealed people to have patience and fight the disease. “By the manner in which the news about the Covid-19 deaths is being reported, the weak-hearted are considering it to be the end of the world. We are appealing to them to stay indoors, stay safe and fight the disease,” Bijali said. Announcing on the public address systems (PAS), Bijali said, “The disease was rapidly taking the people into its grip, but at the same time there was a very high number of people who were getting cured of the disease. The people should, therefore, cooperate with the administration to fight against the disease.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/man-ends-life-fearing-he-had-contracted-infection/articleshow/75102293.cms||---
April 12, 2020||Pune||Pune: Constable’s mother found Covid-19 +ve, building quarantined||PUNE: A building at Vishrantwadi police colony on Alandi road was put under quarantine on Saturday after a police constable’s mother was found to be Covid-19 positive on Friday. The on-duty constable, posted with the Yerawada police station, had also come into contact with six to seven constables over the last three days, the police said. The constable’s swab test reports showed he had not been infected but he is under self-quarantine. The police also sanitized the area on Friday evening. A couple of police constables are guarding the building and no one is allowed in or out of the building, a senior police officer told TOI. The other policemen with whom the constable had been in contact also underwent swab tests. Four policemen have tested negative so far. “His mother had gone to Dighi for a couple of days. Upon her return, she fell ill. Their relatives at Dighi also underwent tests and their reports were negative,” the police officer said. The constable’s mother has been admitted to Yashwantrao Chavan Memorial Hospital in Pimpri. Meanwhile, the Dattawadi police station have installed bells at check points. The bells are rung every hour to remind on-duty policemen to leave their place and thoroughly wash their hands and face with soap.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/constables-mother-found-ve-building-quarantined/articleshow/75102298.cms||---
April 12, 2020||Kolkata||West Bengal: A voicebot to answer all your corona queries||KOLKATA: Do you feel overwhelmed by the tsunami of information on novel coronavirus doing the rounds on social media but don’t know where to look for authentic data? An engineer, a techie, a doctor and a statistician have teamed up to create a unique voicebot that uses artificial intelligence to sift through World Heath Organisation data to answer your queries on Covid-19 in English and Bengali on their website. IIT-Kharagpur alumnus Souva Majumder, IBM data scientist in the US Sourav Mazumdar, physician and researcher at School of Tropical Medicine Amitabha Bhattacharya and statistician Anushree Bhattacharjee had been working on a voicebot for dengue since October 2019. They even conducted trials at a health camp in Moulali on December 15 and 16. “We have been working on the algorithm and architecture for two years. It was only in mid-January, when WHO released an FAQ on novel coronavirus that we decided to train the voicebot on nCoV. The term Covid-19 had not yet become popular,” said Majumder, the architect, algorithmic and chief coordinator of the project. The team has retained the original name of the website www.denguebot.in that now contains more info on Covid-19 than dengue. The voicebot recognizes Bengali questions in varied pronunciations. Till now, 2,100 people have tried it and the accuracy level has been 98.6%. The accuracy will improve as the voicebot becomes more intelligent with use.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/a-voicebot-to-answer-all-your-corona-queries/articleshow/75102302.cms||---
April 12, 2020||Madurai||Maintain healthy diet, say doctors||MADURAI: Even as doctors and experts stressed that there is no sure way to prevent Covid-19 other than to practice social distancing and proper hygiene, vulnerable or high risk groups can have a better chance of tackling the disease by building up their immunity. “Decades ago, there is solid evidence of the efficacy and safety of treating viral and bacterial infections with pharmacological doses of various vitamins and amino acids. Our diet must be richer in zinc (Zn), selenium (Se), magnesium (Mg), cholecalciferol (D3) and ascorbic acid (As). These elements are termed as immune essential nutrients. Due to its peculiar physico-chemical properties, ascorbic acid fights all kinds of viruses,” explained Dr P S Navaraj, founder, Madurai Science Forum. He said that even a low supplemental amount of vitamin C saves lives. This is hence important for those with low incomes and few treatment options. However, ultimately, a healthy diet is the best way to prevent any illness, say doctors. “Our diet has vastly changed these days with the advent of junk food so it is no surprise many may be lacking in certain nutrients. Rather than supplements, it is better to get all nutrients we need naturally. Eating plenty of different fruits, vegetables and wholesome grain can effectively help us have a strong immune system,” said Dr R Ramesh, a general physician. Siddha medicine doctors say that Kabasura Kudineer, because of its role as an immunomodulator can effectively help build immunity and hence may be useful in fight against Covid-19. “Food, medicine and lifestyle are all factors for immunity. It is not possible for everyone to quickly boost their immunity in just one month or week. Everyone’s body condition is unique,” said Dr K Balaji, a Siddha doctor. He likened use of Kabasura Kudineer to when Nilavembu is used for fight against dengue viral fever. “Kabasura Kudineer was previously used in fight against Swine Flu. There is no drug to treat or prevent Covid-19 as of now. Kabasura Kudineer is still considered even experimental but it builds immunity for sure. In Siddha, the remedy is typically based on the type of symptoms and fever,” said the doctor.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/maintain-healthy-diet-say-docs/articleshow/75102295.cms||Sukshma Ramakrishnan
April 12, 2020||Dehradun||Teachers’ body invokes ‘Bhaitoli’ for ‘sisters’||Pithoragarh: In Pithoragarh, people are increasingly falling back on traditional beliefs and looking for innovative ways to support the needy during the nationwide Covid-19 lockdown. A government teachers' association is assisting needy women by invoking the traditional practice of 'Bhaitoli'. Using this custom, teachers are providing ration and other essential supplies to the women. 'Bhaitoli' is a traditional practice in Kumaon where a brother usually goes to a sister’s house with some gifts in the month of 'Chaitra' - the first month of Hindu calendar. In places where there is hardly any connectivity, particularly in hilly areas, the women wait for this particular time of the year for their brothers. The women after receiving the gifts distribute them among other members of the community. "In the wake of the 21-day lockdown, many women are in urgent need of ration and other food supplies. They, however, cannot ask from anyone due to social factors. So, we are trying to support some of these women in a dignified way by using the 'Bhaitoli' custom,” said Govind Singh Bhandari, president of government teachers’ association, Pithoragarh. “In this way, we informed the women that we are not showing them any mercy, but as their brothers we are giving them 'Bhaitoli'. They, in turn, are accepting this service and appreciating our cause in this hour of crisis,” Bhandari said, adding, “We have provided essential supplies as ‘Bhaitoli’ to more than 35 women and are continuously trying to support many others.” “Some of the women are also upset with the lockdown as they are unable to meet their own brothers who are working in other places. So, this service of ours is a noble step for everyone and we are also happy,” said Aan Singh Kholia, one of the association members. “We are making a ‘Bhaitoli’ packet which usually consists of flour, spices, edible oil, sweet, soap and sanitiser,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/teachers-body-invokes-bhaitoli-for-sisters/articleshow/75101788.cms||Prem Punetha
April 12, 2020||Pune||No fresh casualty in 24 hours in Pune, 16 individuals turn positive||PUNE: Barring the 64-year-old Bhavani Peth woman who succumbed to the Covid-19 associated complications late on Friday night, no fresh casualty was reported in the Pune Metropolitan Region (PMR) in the 24 hours ending 11.30pm on Saturday, keeping the death count in Pune at 27. Besides, 16 fresh cases of the contagion were reported on Saturday, pushing the tally of positive cases in the PMR to 263. These cases are mainly from Guruwar Peth, Bhavani Peth, Kasba Peth, Tadiwala Road, Kondhwa and Phursungi. “There had been no Covid-19 casualties in the PMR in the last 24 hours, which is a reassuring sign and indicative that we can contain the spread of the virus with the extended lockdown,” said district health officer Bhagwan Pawar. The Bhavani Peth woman who died late on Friday night had diabetes and hypertension. “She was admitted to the Sassoon hospital during the early hours on the same day. Her throat swab tested positive for Covid-19 the same afternoon. She had developed acute respiratory distress syndrome, following which she succumbed to the contagion,” Pawar said. Bhavani Peth and surrounding areas in the city’s eastern side have reported maximum number of Covid-19 cases than those living in the west, including Deccan, Kothrud, Aundh and Baner. Over-crowded living conditions, initial disregard towards following social distancing and other preventive measures, expert said, were the main reasons why the city’s central Peth areas and other localities had reported maximum cases. In contrast, most people in the city's west side live in cross-ventilated apartments have reported a few cases. “More than living condition, they have been following the norms of social distancing right since the beginning, accounting for lesser number of cases in this part of the city,” said senior family physician Avinash Bhondwe, state president of the Indian Medical Association. Central government’s three-member Rapid Response Team (RRT) under the leadership PK Sen, additional director general, Union health ministry is in Pune to review the prevention and control measures in terms of containing Covid-19 infection. Delhi-based physician Rohit Bansal and anaesthetist Saurabh Mitra are also part of this team. The team visited the state-run BJ Medical College-Sassoon hospital, PMC-run Naidu Hospital, state-run Civil hospital in Aundh and PCMC-run YCM hospital in Pimpri. Pune region’s divisional commissioner Dilip Mhaisekar held a discussion with the team on Saturday. The team expressed satisfaction on the coordinated efforts of the administration and the health department, Mhaisekar said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/no-fresh-casualty-in-24-hours-in-pune-16-individuals-turn-positive/articleshow/75102296.cms||Umesh Isalkar
April 12, 2020||Hyderabad||24 new Covid-19 cases in Andhra Pradesh, tally rises to 405||Andhra Pradesh on Saturday recorded 24 more Covid-19 cases, taking the state’s tally to 405. Guntur district alone recorded 17 of the new cases. The state has thus far registered six Covid-19 deaths. As many as 30,000 people are under quarantine. Eleven people have recovered from coronavirus infection and have been discharged from hospital. Five fresh cases have emerged in Kurnool , followed by Kadapa and Prakasam with one case each. Kurnool (82) , Guntur (75) and Nellore (48) districts account for more than half of the cases in AP. As per health authorities, 7,201 samples were tested as of Saturday. Of them, 405 cases were positive. Officials said one more Covid-19 positive case had recovered after treatment. Now, 11 people in AP have recovered from the pandemic.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/24-new-covid-19-cases-in-andhra-tally-rises-to-405/articleshow/75102331.cms||---
April 12, 2020||Kozhikode||Kasaragod strategy paying off: Officials||Kannur: The multipronged strategy introduced in Kasaragod by district administration to prevent the spread of Covid-19 has started showing results, and the number of patients and also those under observation have come down considerably. In the past few days, 22 out of the 160 people who tested positive for the disease in the district have recovered and have been discharged. The number of people under surveillance, which steadily increased in the past one week, have started showing a declining trend. There were 11,807 people under surveillance at home or hospital on April 7, which came down to 10,721 on April 10. “We can definitely say that the district is recovering with greater vigour,” said Alkesh Kumar Sharma, special officer, appointed to oversee the disease containment activities in the district. “The lockdown was highly effective and all departments took steps to ensure that people complied with quarantine rules,” he said. “Cluster containment and smart isolation strategies were implemented with excellent coordination by all the departments, but what is more important is that we were successful in making the people feel confident that they would not face supply shortage of essentials while in isolation,” he said. When the lockdown was strictly implemented, the officials made sure there was no issue with the supply of essential items at doorsteps, he added. Though initially, people were apprehensive of the health infrastructure in the district, proactive measures helped improve their confidence, he said. Now, there are sufficient hospitals to take care of emergency situations, if any, said Sharma. “Apart from the healthcare professionals in the government sector, around 117 doctors and nurses, among others, have come forward to offer their service, and it has helped a lot in handling the emergency situation,” he said. The stringent measures put in place, should continue for some more time to make sure that everybody is safe, though there is no community transmission of the virus, he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kozhikode/kasaragod-strategy-paying-off-officials/articleshow/75101075.cms||---
April 12, 2020||Vadodara||Missing links perplex officials||Vadodara: The COVID-19 cases in the city are spiralling with every passing day. But when it comes to latest cases, health officials are struggling to find an epidemiological link. The source of infection in the biggest cluster of cases at Nagarwada and a single case from Bahar Colony remains a mystery. The steady trickle of cases from Nagarwada has been on a rise. While a social worker was the first to take ill and test positive, officials believe that he may not necessarily be the one who was infected first. Even if one believes that he was the first person to be infected, there is no clue regarding the person who could have passed on the virus to him. “The residents of the area are either wary of disclosing details or are missing some important fact. There are chances that someone from the locality may have visited some affected areas or some infected person may have come to the area,” said a VMC official. The case of the elderly man from Bahar Colony is even more curious. A relative of the man and the relative’s daughter were admitted with symptoms of a severe respiratory infection at a private hospital. While the father-daughter duo did not have COVID-19, the man form Bahar Colony tested positive.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/missing-links-perplex-officials/articleshow/75101793.cms||---
April 12, 2020||Ahmedabad||Turntable ladder used for disinfection||Ahmedabad: A no-flying zones over several parts of the Walled City forced the AFES to bring out its 55m high turntable ladder to disinfect several areas during its disinfection drive on Saturday. The drive took off from the Manekchowk area and moved to Dhal ni Pol, Astodia Darwaza and Danapith fire station. AMC officials said that on Saturday they used 40 lakh litres of disinfecting mist in the highly congested area currently under cluster quarantine. Earlier, the AMC had also stopped movement of vehicles on Ashram Road so that no traffic entered the Walled City. The area where the AMC did disinfection on Saturday was in the funnel area of the airport. M F Dastoor, chief fire officer, Ahmedabad Fire and Emergency Services (AFES) said that due to the no-flying zone, large-scale spraying of disinfectants was impossible, despite having drones. “We decided to use the 55m turntable ladder for the operation,” he said. Dastoor said that the entire spraying operation was conducted from a height of 45-55 metre. In several places they descended to 45 metre, while at some places the turntable ladder was raised to its full height. He said that another such drive will have to carried out in Walled City areas like Dariapur which are also in the funnel area and hence drones cannot be used.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/turntable-ladder-used-for-disinfection/articleshow/75102304.cms||---
April 12, 2020||Pune||Six flu clinics for people showing mild symptoms in Pune||PUNE: The Pune Municipal Corporation has set up six flu clinics, aka Covid care centres, to treat patients with mild symptoms of the contagion. Besides, the civic administration has commissioned five dedicated Covid-19 health centres to treat patients. Two of these centres Sassoon General hospital and a facility at Symbiosis campus at Lavale are for patients with severe symptoms and have been categorized as dedicated Covid hospitals. The six flu clinics have a total capacity of over 380 beds, while dedicated Covid health centres have a capacity of more than 750 beds. “The centres have been divided in three categories as per the directives of the Union health ministry,” a civic official said, adding that a detailed list of all the centres had been uploaded on the PMC website for the benefit of citizens. “People should not hesitate to visit these centres if they develop even mild symptoms as delay in diagnosis could hamper timely treatment, putting the person at risk. The flu clinics have been set up in each zone to ensure that health services are within the reach of common people and they don’t have to go far to reach a clinic,” the official said. A senior official from the PMC’s health department said, “An extensive survey of people is already under way to find out symptomatic patients. We appeal to the citizens to monitor their health regularly, besides keeping a tab on the health status of their near and dear ones. Those with cough, cold, breathlessness and sore throat should visit the flu clinics. The patients will immediately undergo necessary tests at the centres,” the official said. Earlier, the civic authorities had shown a keen interest in the way Lonand, a small town in Satara district, containing the spread of Covid-19 through ‘Rakshak Clinics’, which were set up by a team of 60 doctors, using minimal infrastructure and safety equipment. These clinics, which inspired the PMC’s flu clinics, are a one-stop destination to screen and treat patients showing symptoms of cough, cold and fever.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/six-flu-clinics-for-people-showing-mild-symptoms/articleshow/75102306.cms||---
April 12, 2020||Pune||Hic! Calls to rehab hubs surge in ‘dry spell’||PUNE: Alcohol and drug rehabilitation centres are in high demand in the “dry spell” because of the Covid-19 lockdown. The rehab hubs in the state recorded a 40-50% increase in enquiries for admission during the phase though they have stopped admission because of safety reasons. Their officials claimed that the closure of liquor and paan shops and non-availability of alcohol had been causing withdrawal symptoms among those addicted to alcohol and tobacco. Calls to deaddiction centres nowadays mostly pertain to alleviation of serious withdrawal symptoms like delirium tremens, including nightmares, agitation, confusion, disorientation, visual and auditory hallucinations, tactile hallucinations, fever, high blood pressure and heavy sweating. The centres are at present only prescribing medications on the phone to patients reporting such withdrawal symptoms. Nitin Dalaya, director, Nityanand Rehabilitation & Residential Mental Healthcare Cenre (NRC), told TOI, “Those addicted to alcohol could initially make do with the stocks they had, but gradually they ran out of alcohol. Now, they are running from pillar to post either to procure alcohol or relieve their withdrawal symptoms. Hence, enquiries have gone up by 40-50%, but we are unable to provide admission currently and only guiding people on the phone by prescribing some medication to relieve their symptoms. We are getting the maximum calls for alcohol withdrawal and a few for cannabis withdrawal.” Amar Shinde, who runs the Jagruti Rehabilitation Centres in Pune and Mumbai, said, “Earlier, we would not get so many calls from the patients’ relatives complaining about withdrawal symptoms. Now, such calls have gone to 5-10 per day as against the earlier figure of one to two per day. Alcohol withdrawal symptoms come on gradually. If a patient does not get alcohol within six hours, s/he starts experiencing tremors. During the next 12 to 24 hours, the patient has sleeping difficulties at night, while s/he begins hallucinating during the subsequent 24 to 72 hours, followed by delirium and then convulsions.” Savio Dcruz, a trustee at the Moksha Foundation — an addiction treatment and rehabilitation facility centre in Nashik, said, “We have seen an increase of about 20% in the number of calls per day for alcohol withdrawal symptoms after the lockdown. Basically, the relatives of those addicted to alcohol are calling. They are finding it difficult to keep such patients in the house as the latter have been going through alcohol withdrawals. Such people want to run out of house in search of liquor. Hospitals have also not been admitting such patients as they are preoccupied with Covid-19 patients.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/hic-calls-to-rehab-hubs-surge-in-dry-spell/articleshow/75102318.cms||Neha Madaan
April 12, 2020||Kozhikode||Random sampling in Malappuram to check Covid spread||Malappuram: Concerned over reports that two persons who tested positive for coronavirus on Friday had extensively travelled across the district, authorities are planning to conduct random sampling tests on people in the locality. Both the persons had attended a religious congregation in Nizamuddin and after coming back, took part in mass gatherings, prayer meets and other programmes in several parts of the district. The 30-year-old man, who is a native of Chungathara near Nilambur and the 48-year-old man who is resident of Valakkulam near Kozhichena were in Nizamuddin from March 7 to 10. Medical authorities have informed that both of them violated quarantine rules and continued maintaining close contact with family members, relatives and many others after their return. The Valakkulam native who returned to Kerala on March 11 participated in a prayer meet with 100 others at a mosque in Perinthalmanna on March 12. On the same day, he participated in an anti-drug awareness programme with 30 others at Palachiramadu. The next day, he attended another awareness programme at Kozhichena and offered namaz in a mosque at Kottakal along with 300 others. Authorities estimate that he must have come into contact with more than 500 people, including his family members in various parts of the district. The Chungathara native arrived at Kochi airport on March 12 from Nizamuddin and went to Angamali in a car with a few others. From there, he travelled to Perinthalmanna by a KSRTC bus. He stayed at mosques at Valluvambram, Vellur Alathurpadi and Chungathara till March 27. The samples of both the persons were sent for testing on April 8 and after their results tested positive, they were admitted to the Government Medical College Hospital, Manjeri on Friday. After a Covid19 review meeting at Malappuram, higher education minister K T Jaleel said authorities are planning to collect random samples in order to address the concern of the public. “We are planning to follow the same strategy, which was adopted at Keezhattur near Perinthalmanna,” he said. At Keezhattur, a corona-suspect attended various functions, including prayer meets and 74 samples were collected from the area for random testing. The decision to conduct random testing was made after it was reported that in several parts of the country, instances of asymptomatic transmission or spreading of disease from mildly symptomatic people were more than previously thought.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kozhikode/random-sampling-in-malappuram-to-check-covid-spread/articleshow/75101089.cms||---
April 12, 2020||Kolkata||West Bengal: Cured of Covid-19, they are keen to donate plasma to help patients||KOLKATA: A day after the Bengal government gave its nod for clinical trials of ‘passive immunization’ of Covid-19 patients using antibodies in the blood plasma of cured patients, at least three survivors from Bengal, currently in home isolation, have lauded the initiative and said they would help in the research process if their health parameters permit. “I read about the initiative and I am ready to donate blood plasma if it can save some lives. I will consider myself fortunate to be a part of such a noble programme,” said 23-year-old Monami Biswas from Habra, who was among the first Covid-19 patients in Bengal who walked into Beliaghata ID Hospital last month after getting off a flight from Scotland. Times ViewThis is a great gesture. A few other Indian institutes are doing similar research and they need all the help they can get.The University of Edindurgh student, who was released from hospital on March 31, said she would undergo a fresh check-up on April 14, after two weeks of home quarantine. Another survivor — the city’s first confirmed patient and a student of Oxford University who faced flak on social media for allegedly violating home isolation protocol after returning from UK last month —has also expressed his desire to be part of the research project. “I will extend all possible help to the researchers to fight this disease. I am following the instructions from doctors and staying at home. But once doctors allow, I will be glad to donate blood plasma for the cause,” said the 18-year-old youth. The treatment, which is under trial in some countries, would involve drawing blood plasma from people who have been cured of Covid-19 after a four-week gap and injecting this into Covid-19 positive patients. The blood plasma contains antibodies. According to doctors, convalescent plasma is advantageous because of its immediate availability since drugs and vaccines take a long time to develop. Another Covid-19 survivor, a 51-year-old diabetes and hypertension patient from Salt Lake’s AD Block who had returned home last Tuesday after a week’s treatment, said he wants to be part of the project but only if his health permits. “At present, I am very weak and not in the best shape — mentally or physically. Once I get a little better, I will take a call with my doctor’s guidance and see if I can be a part of the project,” said Gopi Krishna Agarwal, a businessman who had no recent travel history and still has no idea where he had contracted the disease from.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/cured-of-covid-they-are-keen-to-donate-plasma-to-help-patients/articleshow/75102341.cms||Tamaghna Banerjee
April 12, 2020||Hyderabad||Emergency helpline no. to offer counselling service to the needy||HYDERABAD: In the wake of a growing need for psychosocial well-being, the Emergency Medical Research Institute (EMRI) Telangana has established support for psychological counselling during the ongoing Covid-19 pandemic. The idea is to contain the impact on people’s mental health during the lockdown period. For the purpose, 53 counsellors have been pooled in and imparted a training on Covid-19 related aspects of mental health and counselling. The 108 helpline of the EMRI will be utilized for extending counselling services and initially five dedicated lines (in two shifts) having five counsellors per shift will be made available. This will be increased if the need arises. In addition to public, the counselling services will be available for medical and paramedical healthcare workers involved in Covid-19 duty. Also, mental health issues due to non-availability of liquor will be addressed on the 108 helpline. Pointing out that the current crisis and restrictive measures such as lockdown that many states are taking to contain the outbreak will have an impact on people’s mental health and well-being, the EMRI stressed on the need for an effective redressal mechanism. “Isolation, social distancing, the closure of schools; workplaces; entertainment are challenges that affect the people, and it is natural to feel stress, anxiety, fear and loneliness at this time,” as per an official statement. In addition to counsellors, two experienced psychiatrists have also been identified to address severe psychosocial behavioural cases due to lockdown from April 11.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/emergency-helpline-no-to-offer-counselling-service-to-the-needy/articleshow/75102578.cms||---
April 12, 2020||Nashik||2 Dhule patients succumb to Covid-19||Nashik, Kolhapur: The coronavirus-related death toll went up to two in both the Dhule and Satara districts. While two positive patients passed away between Friday and Saturday in Dhule, Satara registered its second death on Saturday. On Friday, Dhule district got its first two Covid-19 positive cases. By Saturday, the coronavirus-related death toll in the district had touched two. Both the patients succumbed while undergoing treatment at the Bhausaheb Hiray Government Medical College and Hospital, Dhule. While one died on Friday afternoon, even before the test results had come in, the other died on Saturday. A 53-year-old man from Sakri taluka and 22-year-old woman from Malegaon city were admitted to the hospital on Thursday night. They tested positive on Friday, Dr RI Suryawanshi, the medical superintendent of the hospital, said. The man had been suffering from respiratory illness and had visited a local hospital. The woman from Malegaon was anaemic and had cardiac problems, the officials from Dhule hospital added. The officials also pointed out that both did not seem to have any travel history, though further investigations are still on. There were reports that the deceased from Sakri had been to Malegaon, where he has some relatives, but this is yet to be verified. The man succumbed on Friday afternoon, even before the results arrived. The woman died on Saturday at 1.30 am. The medical teams swung into action in Sakri town, converting it into a containment zone. The patient’s house and neighbourhood are being sanitised by the health teams. The local doctor has also been asked to sanitise his clinic and quarantine himself. “Four residents of the house, who are in the high-risk category, and 10 others in the low-risk category were taken to Dhule hospital for screening,” the official said. The relatives of the Malegaon woman are also being screened.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/2-dhule-patients-succumb-to-covid-19/articleshow/75102309.cms||Abhilash Botekar
April 12, 2020||Ahmedabad||Heart surgeon shows he has a big heart||Ahmedabad: More than two decades ago, as a student of medicine, Dr Bhupesh Shah provided tiffin to poor patients and their relatives who visited the Civil Hospital. Over the years, he has been associated with several NGOs and has been working for tribals, animal welfare and other activities. But the outbreak of Covid-19 and the subsequent lockdown has brought the best out of the heart surgeon – he runs over 20 ‘khichdi ghars’ or community kitchens in different parts of Ahmedabad, feeding close to 10,000 persons every day. Not just this, Dr Bhupesh Shah has distributed over 22,000 food kits, each comprising of 7kg of khichdi mixture, 1kg flour and 1kg cooking oil to the poor and jobless in slums and other localities of the city. He is indeed, a heart surgeon with a big heart. The 50-year-old cardio-thoracic surgeon, who has completed over 11,000 surgeries to date, has not limited his service only to people in times of the lockdown. With the help of several volunteers, Dr Shah has been feeding stray dogs about 300 rotis every day. Besides, 3 tonnes of `juvar’ grain has been fed to birds across the city since the lockdown was imposed. “We started off with providing food kits to needy people, but soon realized that not all had kerosene or LPG to cook the khichdi mixture. While distribution of the food kits is still on, I decided to shift focus and distribute cooked food,” Dr Shah said. Over 500 workers prepare khichdi at 20 community kitchens located across the city and close to 10,000 needy persons are being fed on a daily basis. Through social media messages, Shah appealed to people to start community kitchens saying he would be glad to provide khichdi ingredients.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/heart-surgeon-shows-he-has-a-big-heart/articleshow/75102340.cms||---
April 12, 2020||Delhi||Masked crusader: Lessons on safety from woman cop||NEW DELHI: Safety can be provided by law enforcement officers in several manners. And constable Anusuiya, who is posted in north Delhi, is doing exactly that in these times of crisis. She has been visiting various slums and demonstrating to the residents how a mask can be made with a piece of cloth and two rubber bands in just four easy steps. Women officers in north Delhi had recently undergone a day’s training to teach people how to make masks at home so that they wouldn’t need to step out to buy them. After reporting at Kotwali police station every morning, Anusuiya visits slum clusters and roadside dwellers teaching them how to maintain social distancing. She then stands in the centre and shows how a mask can be made at home. “While women can cover their faces with a dupatta, men can make the masks with a handkerchief. Fold the cloth twice and then attach two rubber bands at the ends. Fold the ends and push the remaining cloth inwards. Place it on your mouth to check the appropriate size and the homemade mask is ready,” Anusuiya tells them. Asked about her endeavour, the constable told TOI, “Poor people and labourers cannot afford to buy a new mask every day. So, it is important to devise a solution to make reusable masks at home.” Anusuiya said, “After undergoing training, I also saw many videos online to understand how masks could be made with different materials. I came to know that masks made out of cotton T-shirts protect better. As many people don’t have sewing machines, they can use rubber bands or hair bands to make the masks. The best part is that the cloth can be washed and re-used. A dupatta is also a good alternative.” The woman cop delivered a baby girl last year, but that hasn’t stopped her from her love of donning the uniform. Her husband is also an officer in the Railway Protection Force. The couple steps out for their duties leaving behind their toddler with Anusuiya’s younger sister. “Usually, women are more interested in the experiment, but sometimes even men stop and see the mask-making steps. These masks are not only long-lasting, but also have a personal touch to them,” said another woman officer.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/masked-crusader-lessons-on-safety-from-woman-cop/articleshow/75113263.cms||Sakshi Chand
April 12, 2020||Hyderabad||Hyderabad: Railway stations turn makeshift mask, food distribution centres||HYDERABAD: With trains off the rails, stations across the city have become makeshift centres for food distribution during the pandemic. Railways employees are distributing food and medical supplies to hundreds of daily wage workers, security guards and licensed porters a Secunderabad, Nampally, Basar, Kamareddy, Malkajgiri and Falaknuma stations. “Coolies have lost their source of income and South Central Railway (SCR) commercial department came forward to distribute essential products like rice, dal, oil packets, atta, masks and sanitary equipment,” said Ch Rakesh, chief PRO, SCR. Food is also being provided to 1,000 migrant workers. “With help of the Railway Protection Force (RPF), the distribution is being done at Kacheguda, Kurnool, Gadwal, Kamareddy, Secunderabad and Nizamabad stations regularly,” Rakesh added. “In addition to food prepared at IRCTC kitchens, food is also being sourced from internal resources of RPF. In Musheerabad and Nizamabad, food is being distributed in association with NGOs,” read a statement from SCR.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/railway-stations-turn-makeshift-mask-food-distribution-centres/articleshow/75102336.cms||---
April 12, 2020||Delhi||Masked crusader: Lessons on safety from woman cop||New Delhi: Safety can be provided by law enforcement officers in several manners. And constable Anusuiya, who is posted in north Delhi, is doing exactly that in these times of crisis. She has been visiting various slums and demonstrating to the residents how a mask can be made with a piece of cloth and two rubber bands in just four easy steps. Women officers in north Delhi had recently undergone a day’s training to teach people how to make masks at home so that they wouldn’t need to step out to buy them. After reporting at Kotwali police station every morning, Anusuiya visits slum clusters and roadside dwellers teaching them how to maintain social distancing. She then stands in the centre and shows how a mask can be made at home. “While women can cover their faces with a dupatta, men can make the masks with a handkerchief. Fold the cloth twice and then attach two rubber bands at the ends. Fold the ends and push the remaining cloth inwards. Place it on your mouth to check the appropriate size and the homemade mask is ready,” Anusuiya tells them. Asked about her endeavour, the constable told TOI, “Poor people and labourers cannot afford to buy a new mask every day. So, it is important to devise a solution to make reusable masks at home.” Anusuiya said, “After undergoing training, I also saw many videos online to understand how masks could be made with different materials. I came to know that masks made out of cotton T-shirts protect better. As many people don’t have sewing machines, they can use rubber bands or hair bands to make the masks. The best part is that the cloth can be washed and re-used. A dupatta is also a good alternative.” The woman cop delivered a baby girl last year, but that hasn’t stopped her from her love of donning the uniform. Her husband is also an officer in the Railway Protection Force. The couple steps out for their duties leaving behind their toddler with Anusuiya’s younger sister. “Usually, women are more interested in the experiment, but sometimes even men stop and see the mask-making steps. These masks are not only long-lasting, but also have a personal touch to them,” said another woman officer.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/masked-crusader-lessons-on-safety-from-woman-cop/articleshow/75113267.cms||---
April 12, 2020||Ahmedabad||City accounts for 52% of state’s cases||Ahmedabad: The city was earlier this month identified as one of the 10 hotspots in India after recording an exponential increase in cases and deaths. This triggered the state health department and Ahmedabad Municipal Corporation (AMC) to carry out a massive door-to-door survey and ramp up sample collection and testing. As a result, the city in the past two days has recorded 101 cases – the number could rise manyfold if citizens are not careful, the authorities warned. Analysis of the city’s figures show that of 9,763 samples processed till Saturday evening, 43% or 4,211 were from Ahmedabad alone. With 243 cases, the city accounts for 52% of the state’s total cases and with 10 deaths, 43% of Gujarat’s Covid-19 related deaths. AMC data shows that 64% of the patients are men and the dominant age group after the testing drive is 20 to 50 years. The mortality rate is higher among people older than 50 years, the figures show.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/city-accounts-for-52-of-states-cases/articleshow/75102339.cms||---
April 12, 2020||Pune||Kit shortage delays rapid antibody testing in Maharashtra||PUNE: The state’s plan to start antibody testing to step up the fight against coronavirus has been hampered by shortage of kits. The kits have been ordered from abroad, but have been delayed. They were supposed to arrive on April 9, but senior health officials said they have no idea when they would be available. At the moment, polymerase chain reaction (PCR) tests are being done. PCR requires throat swabs and 5-6 hours for the results. Rapid antibody testing kits are quicker to get early results by using. The results will be available in 15-30 minutes. With the state registering 1,652 positive cases and a 5.5% mortality rate, state health minister Rajesh Tope said that these tests can help improve surveillance. Dr Subhash Salunkhe, technical adviser to the state government on pandemic control, told TOI that there has been an unnecessary delay of these kit. “Our dependence of kits from abroad have delayed the entire process,” he said. Another government official, on the condition of anonymity, said the initial consignment allotted to the country had some quality issues and that a fresh consignment was been ordered, which accounts for the delay. The Indian Council of Medical Research recommended rapid antibody testing for Covid-19 in high containment zones on April 2, but no state governments has procured the kits so far, said health officials. “The kits were supposed to reach India on Wednesday. However, it was delayed after other countries express concerns over the quality of these kits,” an official said. The ICMR earlier this week said it had ordered 5 lakh kits. The kits were “on their way”, the Union health secretary assured all the states on Friday. Government officials said local companies have the capacity to manufacture these kits, but were not given permission over quality concerns. “While some companies have the approval from NIV for efficacy kits, they do not have the import licence from the drug controller, and some companies do not have both,” an official said. Bhilwara pattern for cluster management Baramati has replicated Bhilwara’s “ruthless containment” model following six positive cases and one death. “The model involves sealing clusters that have seen a spike in cases, identifying each infected person, isolating them and reducing their interface and the interface of all those they might have come in contact with. This has helped in preventing the spread,” said Pune collector Naval Kishore Ram. They have readied 44 zones and appointed officials and ward marshals in this regard.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/kit-shortage-delays-rapid-antibody-testing-in-state/articleshow/75102334.cms||Nisha Nambiar
April 12, 2020||Hyderabad||Lockdown heroes: Hyderabad travel group delivers medicines to elderly||HYDERABAD: To help the elderly and those who require daily medication, a city-based travel group has shifted gears and decided to deliver medicines during the lockdown period. Raj Kiran of Backpackers and City Freaks (BCF) says people who are ailing or elderly are most vulnerable to the novel coronavirus. “To ensure that they are safe and take medicines regularly, we decided to deliver medicines to them. Many people are contacting us. Even if we are able to help a handful of people, it will be worth the effort,” the techie-turned-entrepreneur, who founded BCF, told STOI. They take requests on WhatsApp and social media, obtain the prescription and deliver the medicines at doorsteps. Among their most frequent requests are medicines for diabetes and children. Kiran said they charge MRP for medicines, which are delivered for free. “Our travel-related activity came to a standstill due to lockdown. First, we thought of food distribution and blood donation, but we realised there was a gap between demand and delivery of medicines. So we began delivering medicines besides blood donation,” he says. “We have been making an average of 6-7 deliveries every day. The numbers are going up,” said Kiran. With followers across nine major cities, Kiran says the group may ask members in other cities to pitch in. Kiran, Bharath Madhava Reddy and Vikas Ramarapu are among the core team behind delivery system. BCF, has 40,000 followers across platforms.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/city-travel-group-delivers-meds-to-elderly/articleshow/75102346.cms||Uttara Varma
April 12, 2020||Bareilly||Bareilly SSP steps in after fake news on 'woman SI being killed by TJ men'||BAREILLY: With several Tablighi Jamaat (TJ) members in the line of fire for testing positive for coronavirus after attending the Delhi event and violating the Covid-19 protocol, the number of fake news circulating online and even rumour-mongering against them are on the rise. One such fake news was peddled in Bareilly and the SSP here stepped in promptly. A message began circulating on social media that a "woman sub-inspector of Bareilly police was killed by members of Tablighi Jamaat who were hiding in the district". This message started getting more traction after a photograph of an injured sub-inspector went viral on Friday. Taking note of this, Bareilly SSP Shailesh Pandey immediately ordered registering of an FIR under IPC sections 505-1B (circulating statement, rumours with intent to cause fear or alarm to the public) and section 66 of Information Technology Act. The police, following his orders, have registered an FIR against unidentified persons for spreading rumours and objectionable content. On Saturday, Geetesh Kapil, the SHO of Kotwali police station, told TOI, “It seems to be an attempt to disrupt communal harmony. Now, we are asking people and trying to find out who shared this post. We want this post to be deleted right away. We are also questioning a few suspects to reach the source. The cyber cell is searching for the IP address of the device where the message was first uploaded online. We are expecting a breakthrough soon.” While SSP Pandey explained, “A fake message was being widely circulated on social media, claiming a clash between police and members of Tablighi Jamaat. We have registered an FIR against the unidentified sender. We are requesting people not to share such posts and stay alert. There are several such fake or unverified information being shared on social networking platforms and those involved will land in serious trouble."||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/bareilly-ssp-steps-in-after-fake-newson-woman-si-being-killed-by-tj-men/articleshow/75101817.cms||Kanwardeep Singh
April 12, 2020||Kolkata||Cops, KMC set new rules to decongest Kolkata markets||KOLKATA: Police and civic officials have decided to regulate the functioning of markets more closely to prevent crowding and ensure social distancing norms. In most markets, shop-owners have been asked to conclude transactions before noon and keep shutters down till next morning. Kolkata Police officers said they had identified markets that witnessed crowding and would sit with market committee members to reorganise vendors who sell vegetables, fish, chicken and mutton to increase the space between them, thereby preventing build-up of crowd. With stray news of more Covid-19 cases pouring in from different localities and talk of a comprehensive lockdown in hotspots, fear appeared to have finally set in with fewer shoppers stepping out on Saturday. Those that did go out wore masks. Police though are not leaving anything to chance. Conscious that old habits die hard and people will be out to buy their daily fish or greens sooner than later, cops are looking at market access control measures. This could mean closing all gates except two — one for entry and the other for exit. Policemen will be posted at the entry to regulate the number of shoppers that are allowed in. Shoppers will also be asked to finish their shopping within 20-30 minutes so that the next batch of shoppers can step in. Police are also preparing a list of local vendors as well as state-run agri business services that will be allowed to sell vegetables and fruits in neighbourhoods. This will lead to decongestion of markets, an officer explained. In unorganized markets at Santoshpur or Haridevpur where sellers sit on the road, their seating area will be marked to ensure there is no crowding. Cops will also be posted to ensure there is no crowding at any vendor stall. KMC markets department officials said they were looking at keeping markets open by rotation. “We have received no specific instruction from Nabanna. But we ask traders in municipal markets to open stores that sell essential commodities. We can also ask traders to keep a market closed for a couple of days. But this can only be done in areas with multiple markets in close proximity,” a KMC markets department official said. Police have also decided to post its personnel at Posta to oversee offloading of trucks but are against keeping Raja Katra open. A dozen chamber and industry bodies, including Ficci, Indian Chamber, Merchant Chamber, Bharat Chamber, CII and HRAEI will be involved in maintaining hygiene at 20 markets in the city and another at Barasat.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/cops-kmc-set-new-rules-to-decongest-city-markets/articleshow/75101813.cms||Dwaipayan Ghosh
April 12, 2020||Dehradun||Probe launched to find how Jamaatis entered Haridwar during lockdown||Haridwar: A probe has been launched by the city police to ascertain how members of Tablighi Jamaat entered the district during nationwide lockdown. The move comes after three Jamaat members, who came to Haridwar after lockdown, were tested coronavirus positive. Around 200 people who came in contact with them have also been quarantined. According to health department, first coronavirus positive case in Haridwar was reported from district’s Paniyala village where a 26-year-old Jamaat member tested positive for the virus. He had returned to the district from Rajasthan on March 31. Similarly, two other Jamaat members, both from Jawalapur, were also tested positive for Covid-19. They too had returned to Haridwar during lockdown. Haridwar SSP Senthil Avoodai Krishna Raj S told TOI, “Some Tablighi Jamaat members entered the district after lockdown and unfortunately three of them were found Covid-19 positive. We have registered a case against them under attempt to murder charges and an inquiry has also been set up to find out how they entered the limits of the district. Strict action will be taken against those found responsible.” The police have also warned strict action against those shopkeepers who keep their shops open beyond permissible time limit. Meanwhile, the police also raided the slum areas where country-made liquor was being prepared. “We will take strict action against shopkeepers who keep their shops open in violation of lockdown guidelines. As far as smuggling of liquor is concerned, we have recovered 9,000 litres of hooch in Pathri village and further action is being taken against the liquor mafia.” Additionally, a group of Nepalese workers has also been quarantined in the district. Haridwar CMO Dr Saroj Naithani told TOI, “They have been quarantined for 14 days due to their travel history.” Police had earlier told media persons that the workers had come to Haridwar from New Delhi and were trying to go back to their homes in Nepal. But now officials say that these men work in factories in SIDCUL. “The group tried to misguide police officials. They actually live in rented accommodations in the SIDCUL area. They have been isolated in their homes now,” said Poornima Garg, circle officer, Sadar.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/probe-launched-to-find-how-jamaatis-entered-haridwar-during-lockdown/articleshow/75101814.cms||MS Nawaz
April 12, 2020||Ahmedabad||Gramyoddhas to tackle exodus to villages||Ahmedabad: While anticipating large-scale internal migration from Ahmedabad city to the villages in Ahmedabad district – to ancestral homes and even farmhouses — in the wake of more Covid-19 detections, district development officer (DDO) Arun Mahesh Babu MS has set up teams involving paramedics and police at all eight check posts of the city — six of which are handled by rural police and two by city police — and village level committees to keep a tab on all those heading towards or entering villages. The DDO has formed ‘Gramyoddha’ team across all the 454 villages and in seven nagarpalikas, involving six members in each village and a similar committee in the local body level, which will compulsory maintain a register of those entering the village and report to the district administration twice daily on such people . The committee will also be formed across 60-odd villages in AUDA area as well. A special dashboard to keep a tab on such migration is also being set up for better coordination. “Teams at the checkposts will perform health checks before they allow anyone through,” says the DDO. Senior district officials claim that there were reports that families from the Walled City and several clusters in the city where Covid-19 positive cases were being reported were heading towards villages. The Gramyoddha committee will consist of the sarpanch, a teacher, a head teacher, police constable, talati and a social worker. "The strategy has become necessary to avoid Covid-19 infections reaching villages,” says Arun Mahesh Babu.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/gramyoddhas-to-tackle-exodus-to-villages/articleshow/75102352.cms||---
April 12, 2020||Kolkata||Now, RG Kar shuts male medicine ward in Kolkata||KOLKATA: Swab samples of two patients testing positive to Covid-19, one of whom died before the result had arrived, sent the RG Kar Medical College and Hospital authorities into a tizzy and led to the lockdown of the male medicine ward on Saturday. Twenty two health workers who were treating patients in the ward have been sent to quarantine and their swab samples are being sent for confirmatory test. The scene that played out at RG Kar is a re-run of what had happened at the NRS Medical College and Hospital a week ago, when a 35-year-old Covid-19 positive patient had died before his confirmatory report came in. As many as 88 health workers were sent to quarantine. Even though all of them have tested negative, all of them are still in quarantine. According to hospital sources, the elderly patient from Belgachhia was brought to RG Kar’s emergency ward on April 6 in an unconscious state. The patient allegedly had no symptoms. He was admitted in the male medicine ward. During the course of treatment, the two patients developed respiratory distress. They were shifted to the isolated ward on Thursday and their samples were sent for tests. One of them died on Friday night, hours before his reports came. The hospital has shifted the other positive patient to ID Hospital. RG Kar principal Suddhadhan Batyabal convened an emergency meeting on Saturday morning to identify healthcare workers who were involved in the treatment of the two patients in the male medicine ward. “We have identified 22 of them, including doctors and nurses, who had come in close contact with the patients. All of them have been sent to quarantine and their swab samples will be tested. Though our doctors and nurses working in the ward were equipped with PPE, we will not take any chance,” said an official of the hospital. Right after the NRS incident, the health department had issued a guideline on safe practices while treating asymptomatic patient, like keeping a distance between hospital beds, assigning restricted number of healthcare workers to low-suspect patients and immediately shifting such patients to the isolation ward at the slightest of any symptoms. “We had followed all these protocols and hence all the contacts could be traced immediately and the number is fewer,” said the official. The hospital has three wards of general medicine. The ward where these patients were admitted had 12 others. Now all of them have been shifted to other wards and they are being closely observed. “We will sanitize and disinfect the affected ward. It could take three days to complete this process. This patient who died was aged and had various co-morbid condition like diabetes and hypertension,” said the official.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/now-rg-kar-shuts-male-medicine-ward/articleshow/75101825.cms||Sumati Yengkhom
April 12, 2020||Hyderabad||University of Hyderabad tele-counselling services for infected||HYDERABAD: Faculty members of University of Hyderabad (UoH) along with psychologists have decided to provide emotional support for rehabilitation of Covid-19 victims through tele-counselling. The faculty members at Centre for Health Psychology, UoH along with other health psychologists are involved in preparing material and training modules for the services to be offered through tele-counselling. “Everyone of us is affected by coronavirus in one way or the other. So, anyone can use this tele-counselling facility and seek help,” said Meena Hariharan, a professor at UoH, adding that those suffering from depression, panic attacks, domestic violence, among others will benefit. The tele-counselling support initiative is a collaborative effort of The Association of Health Psychologists (AHP) and five other organisations working under the banner of SERV (Support for Emotional Rehabilitation of the Virus Victims) which extends tele-counselling services across the country. “Counsellors with the highest academic (psychology) background and years of experience in counselling have volunteered to provide 24x7 support to coronavirus victims. Any person in need of counselling services can call the helpline number 9985010680,” said Hariharan.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/uoh-tele-counselling-services-for-infected/articleshow/75102579.cms||---
April 12, 2020||Ahmedabad||Gujarat government ties up with 66 private hospitals||GANDHINAGAR: To be better equipped to handle more cases of Covid-19 infection in Ahmedabad, the state government has tied up with 66 private hospitals. The government is also increasing the number of beds for Covid-19 treatment in government-run hospitals. “These private hospitals will provide over 2,000 beds with ventilators and other required facilities. Along with beds and infrastructure, doctors and other staff facilities have also been lined up which will be used in case of further spread of the Covid-19 in Ahmedabad,’’ a source in the government said. Apart from roping in private hospitals, 300 beds of the cancer hospital, 300 of the kidney hospital and around 500 other beds have been readied for Covid-19 patients. These facilities are just adjacent to the dedicated 1,200-bed Covid hospital in the Asarwa Civil Hospital campus.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/govt-ties-up-with-66-private-hospitals/articleshow/75102351.cms||Kapil Dave
April 12, 2020||Bhopal||Finally, security tightens at ‘hot spots, no entry & exit without protocol now||BHOPAL: Perimeter control guidelines will ensure that there is no unchecked outward movement of population from the containment zones or ‘hot spots’, reiterated Bhopal chief medical and health officer (CMHO), Dr Prabhakar Tiwari, here on Saturday. Except for maintaining essential services (including medical emergencies) and government business continuity, checks have been initiated through thermal screening in these zones. All entry and exit points are being manned 24x7. All vehicular movement, movement of public transport and personnel movement have been stopped. All roads, including rural roads connecting the containment zones, are guarded by police. The district administration has posted signage to create awareness informing the public about perimeter control. Health workers posted at the exit point will perform screen the people. Their work would include interviewing travellers, measuring their temperature, recording the place and duration of intended visit and keeping complete record of their intended place of stay. Details of all persons moving out of the perimeter zone for essentials or emergency services is to be recorded and they will be followed up through the Integrated Disease Surveillance Programme. Those entering such geographically quarantined areas shall be given a chemo-prophylactic dose of hydroxy-chloroquine. All vehicles moving out of the perimeter control will be decontaminated with sodium hypochlorite (1%) solution. Protocols are also in place for healthcare screening in the periphery of ‘hot spots’ where COVID-19 cases have been diagnosed. CMHO says that health workers are being assigned tasks as the cases rise. Help from Ayush and other wings are to be sought. All suspects and confirmed COVID-19 cases will be hospitalized and kept in isolation in dedicated COVID-19 hospitals, hospital blocks. Persons testing positive for COVID-19 will remain hospitalized till such time as two of their samples are tested negative as per the discharge policy. About 15% of the patients are likely to require hospitalization, and an additional 5% will require ventilator management, going by MoHFW guidelines.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/finally-security-tightens-at-hot-spots-no-entry-exit-without-protocol-now/articleshow/75101828.cms||---
April 12, 2020||Mumbai||Maharashtra government wants ‘pool testing’ to boost capacity 10 times||MUMBAI: With pressure to increase the number of Covid-19 tests performed daily, the state wants to start “pool testing” samples to increase its testing capacity by over 10 times almost instantly. Maharashtra health minister Rajesh Tope said the state government has sought permission from the Centre and the Indian Council for Medical Research (ICMR) to allow pool testing. The pooled testing method involves putting multiple swab samples together and testing them in a single real-time polymerase chain reaction (RT-PCR) test. If a batch tests positive, then everyone whose samples were a part of that batch would have to be tested separately. Conversely, if a batch tests negative, then all the samples are negative. “This method will increase the testing capacity by 10 times almost immediately,” said a senior state government official. The state conducts roughly 3,000 tests a day. “If we get the permission, we can test 10 or even 20 times more with the same infrastructure we have at present. We will be able to save time, testing kits and test more people,” said Tope. He added some doctors from the state who are working in the US have suggested this technique be adopted in Maharashtra. Chief minister Uddhav Thackeray presented the idea at a video-conference with Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Saturday and has sought permission from the Centre for the state. The ICMR, too, has mentioned pooled testing before, but was in the process of validating it. “Pooled samples have been used previously in times of epidemics and also to test for HIV among pregnant women visiting antenatal clinics,” said a state health department official. In the current Covid crisis, Israel was the first country to use pooled testing to increase the daily number of tests. Covid tests are expensive as they have to be carried out in a PCR machine; while government tests for free, the private sector charges Rs 4,500 for each test. Last week, many US universities validated the use of pooled tests for Covid.  Tope said the state has also asked the Centre to expedite permission for five new testing laboratories, which, if given, will see the state have a total of 30 labs. As on Saturday, the state had conducted over 36,000 tests, of which over 19,000 were in Mumbai alone. On Sunday, Mumbai will start swab collection at parking lots that would lead to 3,000 samples being collected every day.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/state-wants-pool-testing-to-boost-capacity-10-times/articleshow/75101842.cms||Malathy Iyer
April 12, 2020||Bareilly||Delhi-return man tests positive for Covid-19 in Rampur, district tally goes up to six||RAMPUR: A 23-year-old resident of Indra village under the jurisdiction of Bhot police station tested positive for novel coronavirus in Rampur, taking the district tally to six. Speaking with TOI, chief medical officer (CMO), Rampur district hospital, Subodh Sharma said, “The patient is a barber who used to work in Delhi. He returned to his village on March 17 and was quarantined on April 5. Police had sent five people, including the patient, to the hospital for a check-up. Their samples were sent to Jawaharlal Nehru Medical College in Aligarh. On Friday, the medical college confirmed the Indra resident to be Covid-19 positive. He has been shifted to the isolation ward.” The CMO said, “Six relatives of the patient have been quarantined at the district hospital and their samples will also be sent to JNMC.” Meanwhile, an FIR was registered against village pradhan Zulfiqar, also a family member of the infected barber, for allegedly obstructing a police team that visited Indra village in search of the patients’ relatives. Bhot police station SHO Yogendra Singh said, “The pradhan obstructed the police personnel and helped the patient’s relatives in evading police. Police, however, brought the six family members, including the pradhan, to the hospital and quarantined them.” The SHO said the pradhan was booked under sections 353 (assault or criminal force to deter public servant from discharge of his duty), 336 (act endangering life or personal safety of other), 269 (negligent act likely to spread infection of disease dangerous to life) and 270 (malignant act likely to spread infection of disease dangerous to life) of the Indian Penal Code (IPC). Police also slapped sections 3 of the Disaster Management Act on them.” Rampur district magistrate Aunjaneya Kumar Singh said, “Local authorities have sealed the entire village and nobody is allowed to enter the village without prior permission.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/delhi-return-man-tests-positive-inrampur-district-tally-goes-up-to-six/articleshow/75101844.cms||Nazar Abbas
April 12, 2020||Bareilly||Covid-19 suspect dies in isolation ward in Kheri, family refuses to claim body||BAREILLY: A 50-year-old man who was admitted at the Covid-19 isolation ward of the district hospital in Lakhimpur Kheri district died on Saturday evening. His family members, however, have refused to claim the body, forcing the district administration to take the responsibility of cremating the body. The deceased, who was a farmer, belonged to Trikolia town in Sampoornanagar area. He was getting treatment for pneumonia at a private hospital in Bheera town and was referred to the district hospital on Friday. “The man, along with his wife, was admitted on Friday and their swab sample was collected on Saturday morning and sent to Lucknow for Covid-19 tests. But the man’s condition deteriorated late in the afternoon and he died,” chief medical officer (CMO) Dr Manoj Agarwal said. “He was symptomatic which is why was immediately kept in the isolation ward along with his wife,” the CMO added. His death, however, has created panic amongst the staff and other people admitted at the isolation ward. “There were four people at the isolation ward, including the deceased and his wife. Now, we have shifted all the three in separate wards and waiting for the test reports. Since the family has refused to accept the body, the district administration has taken the responsibility to cremate it. We are waiting for the test reports to come. We have kept the members of the family under home quarantine,” Agarwal said. The CMO said the deceased didn’t have any travel history, but the district administration is probing whether he came in contact with any person who returned from abroad recently.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/covid-19-suspect-dies-in-isolation-ward-in-kheri-family-refuses-to-claim-body/articleshow/75101838.cms||Kanwardeep Singh
April 12, 2020||Kolkata||Drones to track shutdown violators in Kolkata||KOLKATA: Drones have been employed in densely populated clusters in north Kolkata — like Hatibagan and Shyambazar — and in the extreme south — like Patuli and Panchasayar — to keep an eye on peple defying lockdown rules. Lalbazar sources said the use of drones helps them to check possible lockdown violations and also alert neighbouring police commissionarates in case of disturbances at borders. “We plan to use drones in two specific zones — the bylanes of certain pockets where mere police booths are not enough and patrolling is not always possible and two, at market places that often witness crowds and hence is a threat to lockdown rules,” said a police officer. Sources hinted that these might be trial runs for more extensive use of drones when the complete lockdown is implemented in certain pockets. “It has become a regular part of policing. In the current situation, we are flying drones over places where we suspect violations. We are identifying those places and ensuring that police are deployed immediately and the violators are booked. It is a great tool in situations where physical contact is to be avoided,” said an officer. Police are also visiting all religious shrines and informing people that any congregation is banned throughout April. This was after reports came in from the special branch that Neel Sasthi on Sunday can see a sizeable gathering at local temples. “We are meeting the priests and telling them that they cannot allow any congregation,” said an officer from the south division.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/drones-to-track-shutdown-violators/articleshow/75101840.cms||Dwaipayan Ghosh
April 12, 2020||Dehradun||Carcass of tiger, leopard found in Ramnagar & Rajaji Tiger Reserve||Dehradun: In two separate cases, carcasses of a tiger and a leopard were found by officials of Uttarakhand forest department on Saturday. In the first case, the officials of Ramnagar forest division found the body of a 4-to 5-year-old male tiger in Fatehpur range. The forest officials claimed that the tiger had died 24 hours ago. However, the veterinarians who conducted postmortem examination of the tiger alleged that it had died around 4-5 days ago. According to the autospy report, the big cat died in infighting and the death was not the outcome of any poaching attempt or disease. The postmortem team will be sending the tiger's sample for further tests. “The hind portion of the tiger had injury marks and was decomposed,” said BP Singh, DFO, Ramnagar. The leopard’s body meanwhile was found in Rajaji Tiger Reserve area. It is believed to be around 6 years of age. The postmortem will be conducted on Sunday, officials said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/carcass-of-tiger-leopard-found-in-ramnagar-rajaji-tiger-reserve/articleshow/75101861.cms||Shivani Azad
April 12, 2020||Bareilly||Rampur admin acquires Jauhar University’s medical faculty to turn it into isolation ward for Covid-19 patients||RAMPUR: The Rampur district administrative on Saturday said it has acquired the medical science faculty building of the M0hammad Ali Jauhar University and added that it would be turned into a quarantine facility to treat Covid-19 patients. Speaking with TOI, district magistrate Aunjaneya Kumar Singh said, “Acting as per the Disaster Management Act, we have acquired the building. The centre will have 100 beds. We have asked the doctors and the other medical staff members, including the nurses, of the district hospital to use the varsity’s medical college building.” Responding to the matter, vice-chancellor of Jauhar University Sultan Muhammad Khan, said, “We had approached the administration a week ago and asked them to use the medical college building to treat Covid-19 patients. Now, we have received the letter from the office of the sub-divisional magistrate to turn the building to quarantine facility.” The university was established in 2006 by the Mohammad Ali Jauhar Trust in Rampur. Its chancellor is Samajwadi Party MP Azam Khan, who, along with his wife Tazeen Fatima and son Abdullah Azam, is lodged in Sitapur district jail after they had surrendered before the court under the charges of forgery. The varsity was granted university status in 2012.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/rampur-admin-acquires-jauhar-universitys-medical-faculty-to-turn-it-into-isolation-ward-for-covid-19-patients/articleshow/75101864.cms||Nazar Abbas
April 12, 2020||Bhopal||Veggies back on platter, but prices too hot to handle||Bhopal: It was for the first time that the much-hyped ‘Apki Sabji, Apke Dwar’ (your vegetable at your doorstep) scheme of the Bhopal Municipal Corporation (BMC) appeared to be working with a number of loading autos and other vehicles laden with vegetables seen on the roads of Bhopal. The vehicles also ventured into housing societies, where they were never seen before. In the absence of eggs, chicken, meat and fish, even the die-hard non-vegetarians are left with no option but to make do with vegetables. In the past few days, particularly after the vegetable markets were closed and vegetable vendors asked to shut their shops, even vegetables had become a scarce commodity. But on Saturday, the citizens’ desperation for vegetables ended to some extent with a number of loading autos and other vehicles with the banner of ‘Apki Sabji, Apke Dwar’ ferrying on the roads and also going into residential colonies. However, the stocks were limited and also the variety. Customers also complained that the vegetables were stale. “They generally had potatoes, onions, cabbage (gobhi), cauliflower (phool gobhi), bottle guard (lauki) and one or two more vegetables, but all of them were stale,” said Vinit Dixit, a resident of Trilanga. There were also complaints that fresh vegetables were taken to VIP areas and not sold to “common” people. “All the autos had stale stuff, but I saw one which has fresh vegetables. I stopped him, but he said it was being taken for sahebs. Soon some more people gathered, so he had to sell it to us. After we cooled down, he said policemen had asked them to go to that particular colony,” said Subhash Dubey, a resident of 1100-Quarters.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/veggies-back-on-platter-but-prices-too-hot-to-handle/articleshow/75101862.cms||---
April 12, 2020||Mangaluru||Authorities fear country liquor may be brewed again in DK islands||Mangaluru: Due to liquor shops remaining closed due to the lockdown, the excise department is keeping a close watch on river islands in the district, which are notorious for brewing country liquor, which is illegal. Officials believe that the old practice of brewing country liquor may be revived on these islands, due to high demand for alcohol, as all liquor shops are closed, across the state, since the past three weeks. These kudrus (islands) of Kudla were once known as dens for brewing country liquor. One among many infamous spots in the district for illicit liquor is Adam Kudru near Jeppinamogaru. Mangaluru has about half-a-dozen kudrus. The authorities are carrying out frequent raids on these islands, which have expert brewers, as they fear they may go back to brewing country liquor, due to a paucity of alcohol due to the lockdown. “There are chances of revival of the old illicit trade of county liquor, and our officials are continuously monitoring all the areas which were once known for the sale of the same. The islands stopped the practice of brewing country liquor about a decade ago, but there are signs that huge demand for alcohol may push them to go back to the old trade,” said a senior official from the excise department. “These kudrus are hard to reach, as one needs to cross the river using boats to get to them,” said another official. A few days ago, Dakshina Kannada district policy arrested two people and seized 20 litres of illegal liquor in Bantwal taluk. They were allegedly brewing liquor at home and selling the same. Liquor selling at premium rates Another worry for the excise department is that liquor is selling at premium rates during the lockdown. Their office is flooded with several complaints. According to sources, liquor is being sold for two to three times more than the usual market price, and transactions for the same are happening online through social media. “So far, we have received about 80 complaints regarding the same. However, only one complaint was genuine,” said Dakshina Kannada excise deputy commissioner Shailaja Kote.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mangaluru/authorities-fear-country-liquor-may-be-brewed-again-in-dk-islands/articleshow/75099681.cms||Kevin Mendonsa
April 12, 2020||Bhopal||Lockdown heat for poultry biz, incurs Rs 100 crore loss every day||BHOPAL: Recording a loss of around Rs 100 crore daily, the poultry buisness (eggs and broiler) in the state capital has been severely hit due to the ongoing lockdown over coronavirus. Poultry owners said if the lockdown goes beyond April 14, it will become tough to recover the losses. They felt that whenever lockdown ends, it will take another two months to go back to the normal situation. Around 90 per cent business in Bhopal is severely hit. Ever since the lockdown, both eggs and broilers have witnessed a decline in consumption largely due to supply and demand issues. Initially, many people didn’t buy chicken because of rumours that Covid-19 might spread through poultry. However, the state government has been regularly clarifying that there is no harm in having chicken. Post imposition of the lockdown, poultry shops have remained closed. Poultry owners said that there is a consumption of around 10-12 lakh eggs per day only in Bhopal. Consumption of broiler stood at around 40 tonnes per day. “Poultry is a huge buisness in every state across the country. This could be gauged from the fact that only in Bhopal, there is a consumption of around 25 tonnes to 40 tonnes of broiler. Imagine the situation when the entire business closes down, which is happening at the moment,” said poultry owners and consultant, Dr Mahendra Singh. He claimed that the poultry industry started witnessing the slump two months ago after rampant rumours that coronavirus spreads through poultry. “The situation worsened when lockdown was declared. Retailers were ready to sell each broiler for as low as Rs 15, but that also could not be sold,” said Dr Singh. Due to lockdown, poultry owners were not able to feed the birds due to which they had to kill them. “Around 60% farmers have done this in the past two weeks. It was done as the chicks started hurting each other as we could not feed them. In such a situation, poultry owners found it better to kill them,” said Pradeep Chakradhar, a poultry owner. “It takes 5-6 months to prepare a bird to start laying eggs. It takes 35-40 days for becoming a complete broiler to be sent to the shop. Now, that a majority of the business is hit, one can understand the situation,” said Chakradhar.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/lockdown-heat-for-poultry-biz-incurs-rs-100cr-loss-every-day/articleshow/75101868.cms||Ramendra Singh
April 12, 2020||Mysuru||Minister calls for stricter measures in Mandya||Mandya: District in-charge minister K C Narayanagowda visited the containment zone in Swarnasandra Colony here on Saturday and instructed officers to ensure stricter implementation of the lockdown. In a meeting, he asked deputy commissioner Venkatesh to keep a tight vigil on containment zone and take all necessary swift measures to contain the spread of Covid-19. MLAs C S Puttaraju and Annadani Kumuda said though the government withdrew biometric system, fair shop owners and food department officers and denying foodgrain to people citing server problems. Narayanagowda warned of strict action if food department officers are found harassing and fleecing people. In another meeting, agriculture minister B C Patil told officers to ensure farmers do not suffer due to the lockdown and make arrangements for the transport and sale of their crops. Meanwhile, residents in the containment zones alleged that essential commodities are not supplied to them.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mysuru/minister-calls-for-stricter-measures-in-mandya/articleshow/75101146.cms||---
April 12, 2020||Bhopal||Shivraj favours extension of curbs||BHOPAL: In a video conferencing of CMs with PM Narendra Modi, Madhya Pradesh chief minister, Shivraj Singh Chouhan on Saturday recommended extension of the lockdown in the country. The 21-day lockdown announced by Modi will end on April 14. Modi interacted with CMs from various states of the country through video conferencing to elicit their views on the current status of Coronavirus menace in their respective state and whether the lockdown period should be extended further. Chouhan told the PM that he was not in favour of lifting the lockdown in the country at this stage. He also briefed the PM on steps being taken in MP to contain the menace and factors which contributed to spurt in the number of COVID-19 patients. Chouhan said that there was a spurt in the number of persons with Coronavirus infection in MP following the return of infected persons from Markaz at Delhi. But migrant workers, who returned to MP following the lockdown, were generally free from Coronavirus infection, he said. The chief minister said that testing capacity in MP was being enhanced, PPE kits and N-95 masks were being distributed among the vulnerable sections and 23 hospitals have been identified for treatment of Coronavirus infection. He said his government has formulated a four-layered plan to contain the spread of the virus. Indore and Bhopal, the two worst-affected districts have been divided into zones to restrict the movement of people. Steps have been taken to ensure functioning of the drug industry. Farmers have been allowed use of harvester while Rabi procurement would begin soon. The number of procurement centres are being increased to make sure there is no rush at one place. The state government also had a meeting with bankers in which they were requested to disburse money to people at the panchayat level. The amount of stipend and money against the mid-day meal scheme of students has been deposited in the bank account of their parents while the amount of social pension scheme has also been transferred in the account of beneficiaries. LPG cylinders and money in Jan Dhan accounts have also started coming. The chief minister praised the “Arogya Setu” mobile app and said people are getting acquainted with it and it is helping in tracking the Coronavirus patients. Available data is also helping to trace the hot spots. Praising the Prime Minister for his “exemplary leadership” during these trying times, he said his leadership is being praised the world over for effective control over the spread of Coronavirus and expressed the confidence that India under his leadership would successfully overcome the Coronavirus threat.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/shivraj-favours-extension-of-curbs/articleshow/75101889.cms||---
April 12, 2020||Nagpur||‘Lockdown must for India, it will delay Covid-19 community spread’||Veteran pulmonologist Dr Ashok Arbat is a pioneer of multi-speciality hospitals in Nagpur. He has seen, studied and treated SARS, swine flu, Zika, and other epidemics. His publication ‘Analysing the clinical profile of swine flu/ Influenza — A H1N1 infection in Central India’ was appreciated worldwide through international journal of viral diseases. His experience makes him an authority to speak on Covid-19. In an interview with TOI, he spoke at length on lockdown extension, post-lockdown situation, heard immunity and post-Covid situation in terms of health care scenario. Q. Do you think extending the lockdown will help? A. I am sure it will. Because in our country, we don’t have any better option than lockdown to restrict spread of Covid-19. Presently, we are working on the formula of test the suspects and isolate the patients. This aims to stop community spread of Covid-19. Use of masks and social distancing aim at the same. All this will delay the community spread. Q. You mean lockdown and social distancing will only delay and not stop Covid-19 community spread? A. Yes. And this delay is the only option available to us. Data says that transmission rate of Covid-19 from primary patient to others is between 1.5 and 3. This means, one patient can infect about 3 patients even during isolation. If not isolated, one patient can infect 406 others. These figures are from China. Population density of India is 440.29 person per square km compared to 148.81 of China. So, India is 2.96 times denser than China. This means, one patient can infect not less than 1,000 patients in India. Imagine the situation if we lift the lockdown and let everyone roam around freely. Q. But, can’t we isolate all positive patients in hospitals and lift the lockdown?A. This won’t be a good idea. Because, thousands of asymptomatic positive patients are there around us. In fact, of all the Covid-19 patients, 18% show no symptoms even during 14 days of incubation period. They get cured by their own antibodies. But these healthy patients can always spread the infection to those who are not so healthy or vulnerable — like aged people. So, exposing everyone to the virus will be dangerous. Q. How to identify an asymptomatic carrier? A. There is only one way to identify this — conducting tests. Many countries are conducting mass tests and isolating infected people. In India, we have limitations on tests. So, we have decided to follow total lockdown and avoid social contacts. During this lockdown, it becomes easy for us to locate positive patients, trace their contacts, high risk individuals and conduct their tests subsequently. Q. But, don’t you think exposing more people to the virus will develop heard immunity?A. Heard immunity is the final remedy for viral disease. First solution is vaccination, which currently is not available. Second is isolation, which we are doing. Third is heard immunity. This develops when more than 60% of the total population gets infected. This means more than 85 crore Indians. Now, more than 80% of these might be in mild category of infection, and they will recover by taking rest at home. About 10% will be in moderate category of infection and they will need medical treatment. About 5-7% are vulnerable and they will need ICU care, ventilators and hospitalization. Looking at the population, four crore people in India will need these services. But we don’t have enough hospital beds, ICUs and ventilators even if we count all private and government establishments in country. Q. So, heard immunity is not for us? A. At least not at this point of time. We need to work a lot on our health infrastructure. We need to increase our health budget. More than 80% of India’s health burden is on private sector. We need to provide some relief to this sector. Not more than 5% of Indians have health insurance. We need to work on it too. This virus is not the last one to infect us. We must get ready for many such viruses in future. Q. What is the way to safeguard most people and withdraw lockdown, at least partially? A. Lockdown or no lockdown, we must follow social distancing. We must keep aged people away from young members. Even if lockdown opens, people having diabetes and hypertension should not go out and mix with others. Work from home should become new normal. We have started following it in hospitals. Young doctors are the front line warriors. Seniors above 60 years of age are only guiding them. All departments will have to follow this until we discover vaccine for Covid-19, which is at least a year away from now. Grandparents need to stay away from children who could be asymptomatic carriers. Israel has done this and successfully restricted cases. Q. Do you agree when people say Indians have better immunity and we can get away with this infection?A. I agree that Indians have better immunity, but this won’t end Covid-19. It’s due to our immunity we have less number of cases and less number of deaths as compared to international data. But this immunity cannot stop spread of virus. Our population is our weakness here. We have many patients of diabetes, hypertension and obesity. They are our weakness. Post Covid-19, at least 40 crore Indians will fall below poverty line, crores of us may lose our jobs and economy will be in doom. Collectively, this will affect our immunity. To avoid this, we must go ahead with present situation and lock ourselves down in homes.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/lockdown-must-for-india-it-will-delay-covid-19-community-spread/articleshow/75107771.cms||Chaitanya Deshpande
April 12, 2020||Dehradun||Lockdown halts migration of nomadic tribes, may affect intel gathering by security forces||Nainital: The ongoing lockdown has affected the migration cycle of several nomadic hill tribes like Bhotiya, Shauka and Rung. These tribals come to lower reaches of the Himalayas at the onset of winter and return to valleys in the higher reaches (mostly near Sino-Indian border) as soon as the snow melts. Defence experts say that the movement of tribals to the border valleys like Johar, Darma, Mana and Niti is important for the country’s defence as well. “Nomads in Uttarakhand's high-altitude border region are invaluable assets for the security forces with respect to surveillance of unmanned areas and early warning,” said Lieutenant General Syed Ata Hasnain (retd). Nainital-based historian and former professor of Kumaun University, Ajay Singh Rawat also pointed out that the tribals have for decades helped the defence forces in the tricky terrain of the Himalayas in terms of intelligence gathering and are also a source of daily essentials like milk and fresh vegetables for the Indo Tibetan Border Police (ITBP) and Army personnel. “The tribals were instrumental in helping the defence forces during the Sino-Indian war. Though in the last few decades, defence forces have moved on to relying on more modern forms of surveillance, the tribals are still important as they populate these valleys and regularly keep informing the administration in case of suspicious movement,” Rawat said. Speaking to TOI, members of the tribes said that they start the journey to the high-altitude valleys in early to mid-April. “As soon as the snow melts, we start moving, because that is also the sowing season for major crops. But due to the lockdown, we have no choice but to wait,” said Manoj Pal who along with several others in Chhimka village in Chamoli — all belonging to the Bhotia tribe, was preparing to undertake the over 100-km-long journey to Bampa village in Niti valley when the lockdown was enforced. ITBP officials also said that though their reliance on tribals for intelligence-gathering has decreased over the years, the shepherds who take their herds to the border areas are a valuable source of information for them. “We maintain routine contact with them for information-gathering purposes. It is good for us if these villagers get to migrate to their high-altitude villages near the borders and the villages remain populated,” said Aparna Kumar, DIG, ITBP (Sector headquarters), Dehradun. Notably, there have been multiple instances of Chinese army incursions in the Barahoti area of Chamoli over the past few years with Chinese army personnel also threatening shepherds grazing their sheep in the area. The report of most of these incursions was given to Indian defence forces by the nomadic shepherds who belong to these tribes. Meanwhile, the delay in migration, tribals say, is also disrupting their centuries-old ritualistic traditions, which they say is a bad omen. “When we come to lower Himalayas, we take our deities with us. However, we also make sure to re-establish them at their abode in the higher reaches as soon as the snow melts. Our village had held a meeting where it was decided that the deities will be reinstated at their abode in the higher Himalayas on April 14 but now, due to the lockdown, that is not possible. This delay is not a good omen,” said 70-year-old Puran Singh Pal. The officials of the district administration also say that the migration of tribals is important for the area but it cannot be permitted till the time lockdown restrictions are in place. “We know that for the tribals, migration is very important and they are also a major help for the defence forces. We have been informed that the snow has just started to melt in many upper regions of Himalayas and therefore they still have time. The administration is also trying to make sure that they return to their villages as soon as the situation becomes normal,” said Vijay Kumar Jogdande, district magistrate, Pithoragarh.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/lockdown-halts-migration-of-nomadic-tribes-may-affect-intel-gathering-by-security-forces/articleshow/75101157.cms||Prashant Jha
April 12, 2020||Dehradun||Foreign tourists told to write ‘I am sorry’ 500 times by police for strolling near Ganga in Rishikesh during lockdown||HARIDWAR: Ten foreign tourists who were seen strolling along the banks of the Ganga in Rishikesh on Saturday morning were each ordered to write ‘I am sorry’ 500 times as punishment by the police. The tourists were from the United States, Mexico, Austria, Ukraine and Israel. Speaking about the matter, Vinod Sharma, in-charge of Tapovan police post under Muni-ki-Reti police station, told TOI, “In the past few days, we had spotted foreign tourists walking along the banks of Ganga or sitting near the river even though lockdown is in force, and people have been asked to not venture out unless it is for essential work. On Saturday, we decided to penalise transgressors and accordingly, around 10 foreign tourists who were found on the river banks were asked to write ‘I did not follow the lockdown, I am sorry’ 500 times on paper sheets as punishment.” He added that they are also going to take action against the managers of hotels and ashrams where these foreign tourists are staying for allowing them to step out without local helpers. It is estimated that there are around 600 foreign tourists stuck in Rishikesh after the lockdown was enforced in the country. Most of them are staying in hotels and ashrams in Tapovan and Kailash gate region who have been asked to provide them with daily essentials. Foreign tourists made to write ‘I am sorry’ 500 times by police for strolling near Ganga in Rishikesh during… https://t.co/5X8cCEPz4M— TOI Cities (@TOICitiesNews) 1586752835000Meanwhile, Swami Chidanand Saraswati, president and spiritual head of Parmarth Niketan, the largest ashram in Rishikesh, where 40 foreign tourists are currently staying, told TOI that they are routinely briefing them regarding maintaining social distance and following lockdown guidelines. “We have locked our ashram gates and all the items coming from outside are being sensitised daily before use. All our inmates are following the lockdown guidelines and we have also requested other tourists staying elsewhere to stay where they are and observe lockdown modalities."||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/foreign-tourists-told-to-write-i-am-sorry-500-times-by-police-for-strolling-near-ganga-in-rishikesh-during-lockdown/articleshow/75101166.cms||MS Nawaz
April 12, 2020||Dehradun||Woman attempts suicide due to ‘starvation’, officials refute claim||Roorkee: A daily wage worker attempted suicide on Saturday. While the kin of the woman claimed that she didn’t have food for a couple of days, officials said that the husband of the woman had got ration from the local fair price shop three days ago and the family had adequate supplies. Shahrana , 30, from Choli village in Bhagwanpur sub-division of Haridwar district, set herself on fire after pouring diesel on her body at about 10 am on Saturday. She was rushed to Roorkee’s civil hospital for treatment where doctors said that she sustained burn injuries on her hands and other parts of the body. She is currently out of danger. "My wife took this extreme step as we did not have raw material to prepare food for two days," said Shahzad, her husband, who is a vegetable vendor by profession. However, administration conducted an inquiry into the matter and claimed that narrative of victim's family is false as they found enough ration stored in her house. It said that action will be taken against the victim and her husband for spreading false information during lockdown. Meanwhile, officials refuted the family’s claims that they were without food. “In our investigation, we found that the woman’s husband had purchased 16 kg wheat and 24 kg rice from the village fair price shop on April 8. Besides, village head had also provided food items to the family two times after lockdown imposition. So, it is not true from any angle that she attempted suicide due to hunger. Instead, we have come to know that there was some tension going on between the couple,” said Santosh Kumar Pandey, sub-divisional magistrate of Bhagwanpur.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/woman-attempts-suicide-due-to-starvation-officials-refute-claim/articleshow/75101885.cms||Tapan Susheel
April 12, 2020||Chennai||Comorbidities pose higher risk than age||Chennai: While Covid-19 casualties across India are in line with the global consensus that advanced age and comorbidities are the major risk factors, the deaths in Tamil Nadu show pre-existing health problems, more than the age, makes patients more vulnerable. Five out of the ten people who died in Tamil Nadu were below the age of 60, and almost all the dead had either diabetes or hypertension. Across the country, nearly 63% of the deaths were among people above the age of 60. “Those dying here are younger because they have comorbidities,” said Dr S Raghunandan, professor of medicine at Rajiv Gandhi Government General Hospital (RGGH), Chennai. “A large number of people here are diabetic.” While the overall prevalence of diabetes in TN is around 10%, it is 25% in Chennai. The prevalence goes up to 60% in the elderly. “If the sugar levels aren’t controlled, it can lead to complications and death,” said the doctor who has been treating Covid-19 patients. One in eight people (13%) in Tamil Nadu is above the age of 60, second only to Kerala where nearly 16% of the population are seniors. In addition, one-third of the population here has high blood pressure. Experts said people with hypertension and diabetes are at a higher risk also because of some medicines they take. For instance, a drug called angiotensin-converting enzymes (ACE) inhibitors (given to prevent heart attacks) prevents an enzyme in the body from producing a substance called angiotensin II that raises blood pressure, but increases another enzyme, ACE 2, that lowers blood pressure. Coronavirus binds to target cells through ACE 2. “You can’t stop this drug because the risk outweighs the benefit,” said senior cardiac surgeon Dr K R Balakrishnan. “We should quarantine vulnerable people and bring the sugar and blood pressure levels under control,” he said. Diabetics are also at increased risk of infections such as influenza and TB, said senior diabetologist Dr V Mohan. “Covid-19 is no exception. Uncontrolled diabetes can lead to problems of the kidneys and the heart. This can make treatment difficult,” he said. That is also because the immune system may be overreacting to the virus, said infectious diseases expert, Dr Subramanian Swaminathan. “It’s called cytokine storm. It’s like a friendly fire where the immune system triggers a response that causes more damage to its own cells than to the invader it's trying to fight,” he said. It occurs in diseases like H1N1. “When this happens, the heart just stops,” he said. Studies have shown that elderly people with comorbidities have higher risk of heart attacks even after recovery. Four days after a 61-year-old man in Chennai was declared cured of Covid-19, he died of heart attack in the RGGH isolation ward on Thursday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/comorbidities-pose-higher-risk-than-age/articleshow/75102377.cms||---
April 12, 2020||Mumbai||Wadhawan brothers’ 2 cars registered with ‘fake address’||Jamshedpur/Mumbai: Two of the five luxury vehicles used by DHFL promoters Kapil and Dheeraj Wadhawan to travel from Mumbai to Mahabaleshwar were registered in Jamshedpur in October 2016. On Friday, the Enforcement Directorate seized the five cars the brothers and 21 others, including their family members, travelled in on March 25. While three were registered in Maharashtra, two had Jharkhand number plates with an allegedly fake address. On Saturday, Jamshedpur district transport officer Dinesh Ranjan told TOI: “The vehicles were registered in October 2016, long before I joined this office. Both the vehicles were purchased by a company named Ultra Space Developers Pvt Ltd and not any individual.” He said primary probe has revealed the company’s permanent address is at Lalpur in Ranchi and the temporary one furnished is ‘c/o Sashi Prakash Gope, Sankosai, Mango, Jamshedpur’. TOI found that a man named Debasish Gaur, who owns a two-wheeler showroom in the area, lives at this address. When contacted, Gaur said he does not know Wadhawans or Sashi. Meanwhile, transport commissioner Shekhar Channe said his department will soon launch a massive drive to check cars registered in other states that ply in Maharashtra. “It will be random checking.” Channe told TOI. (With Prafulla Marpakwar)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/wadhawan-brothers-2-cars-registered-with-fake-address/articleshow/75101912.cms||---
April 12, 2020||Mysuru||Nobody can venture out sans police nod in Shivamogga||Shivamogga: To prevent the movement of people, Shivamogga police have sealed off all entry and exit points giving access to different localities in the city. The move, an initiative of SP K M Shantharaju, is said to have taken after police found it difficult to stop people from venturing out. Some days ago, police tried to rein in some youths roaming around in the city, in vein. Booking cases and seizing vehicles have not deterred people, prompting the SP to barricade the roads. Shantharaju told STOI that the lockdown orders have been effectively imposed in the city. “But some people continue to roam unnecessarily. So we identified some sectors and put up barricades there. No vehicles are allowed to pass through without police permission. Essential materials are available in every ward, so there is no need for people to venture out of their lanes. Barricading of roads has helped us control unnecessary movement, and this will continue,” he added. Meanwhile, police and excise department officials raided various places in the district where liquor was illegally stored. They also seized 250 litres of ingredients stored at Chikkamagadi tanda near Shiralakoppa town of Shikaripura Taluk. Narayana Naik and his wife Premi Bhai have been arrested in this connection. So far, samples of about 584 people have been tested, and none of them has emerged positive.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mysuru/nobody-can-venture-out-sans-police-nod-in-shivamogga/articleshow/75101178.cms||---
April 12, 2020||Bhopal||State’s first four corona +ve patients recover in Jabalpur||Jabalpur: With the fifth patient of the city being discharged from hospital after recovery from coronavirus infection on Saturday, all the first four positive patients of the state have recovered. “Jabalpur, is a very small town, but I was pleasantly shocked to see the treatment facilities available. Doctors and staff were very caring and all the required facilities were available. I definitely felt bad about being ill, but never in this time of isolation in the quarantine ward did I feel scared. Everyone was supportive and used to boost my confidence, so I got the feeling that I will recover soon,” said a 20-year-old patient who was discharged on Saturday after recovery. It is noteworthy that a total of four patients, including two females and two males, were found positive in Jabalpur on March 20, the first such cases found in Madhya Pradesh. Of the four, three were of a jeweller’s family who had gone to Dubai and had recently returned to Jabalpur and the fourth one was a student who studied in Germany and had returned to the city recently, sources said. Later, four employees of the jeweller were also found positive. Police also registered a case against the jeweller for not informing about the fact that he had returned from Dubai and was having Covid-19 symptoms. Of the total eight positive patients, four, including the first three patients, the jeweller, his wife and the student who had returned from Germany and an employee of the jeweller were discharged from the hospital. But the test report of the jeweller’s daughter was positive, hence she continued to stay in the isolation ward. On Saturday, her reports came negative. With this, five out of the nine patients of Jabalpur have been discharged after recovery.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/states-first-four-corona-ve-patients-recover-in-jabalpur/articleshow/75101901.cms||---
April 12, 2020||Bhopal||New inmates to be shifted to decongest Central Jail||Bhopal: In order to avoid the spread of Covid-19 among 3000 plus jail inmates of Bhopal Central Jail and staff, jail authorities have decided to put up the new inmnates at old Jail, in Arera Hills area. The decision was taken after an accused, sent from Indore to Jabalpur jail, tested positive for coronavirus.Two barracks have been prepared to house around 100-150 jail inmates at the old building. The move aims to decongest the jails in the wake of fears of that the infection may spread among the victims.Such measures have also been taken in other states with a selectedprisoners qualifying a certain criterion being even released on parole for a few days.Bhopal Central Jail’s superintendent on Saturday wrote a letter to all the SHOs of city police stations and asked them to send the people arrested to old jail after producing them in the court.Jail superintendent Dinesh Nargave said, “Around 3000 inmates have been lodged at the jail building in Gandhi Nagar. Apart from them, the security personnel and staff are also deployed there. So, any new inmate sent to the Central Jail poses a threat of spreading Covid-19 there. By the time the person is tested corona-positive; he may have already contacted and infected many others.” Nargave said in order to avoid this kind of situation, it has been decided that all the new inmates will now be lodged at the old jail building in Arera Hills. “Permission for the same has been received from district collector and necessary arrangements have been made,” he added. He also said that two barracks have been prepared at the old jail building where all the basic amenities have already been arranged. An officer and other jail staff have also been deployed there for monitoring.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/new-inmates-to-be-shifted-to-decongest-central-jail/articleshow/75101918.cms||---
April 12, 2020||Bhopal||Health officials who tested positive did not flout norms: Govt tells HRC||Bhopal: As many as 47 officials from the health department had tested positive for Covid-19 comprising a major chunk of the total number of cases in the city, when this report was filed.In its reply to the Madhya Pradesh Human Rights Commission (MPHRC) the state government’s stated that no Covid-19 guideline was flouted and all the officials and employees of the health department, who tested positive, were taken to isolation wards. They were treated as per the guidelines, and no official or employees have been found to be negligent.The state government also shared the list of 47 officials and employees, who tested positive, with the commission. Questions were raised after officials of health department, including two IAS officers tested positive.On April 7, HRC chairman Justice Narendra Kumar Jain issued a notice to chief secretary on senior health officials getting infected. The rights body asked whether the set protocol was followed and precautions taken.Citing media reports the commission stated that two senior officials of the health department reported to hospital two days after testing positive. The commission called for a report from chief secretary through e-mail by 5pm on April 9. The chief secretary’s office sought a day’s extension and replied to the commission’s notice late on Friday evening. The commission asked the chief secretary the date and time when the health department officials in question were tested positive and why the officials were not immediately taken to isolation wards.The commission had further asked how many health department officials and employees in the state have tested positive; the number of employees and officials who had been in contact with them. It had further asked why officials and employees, who came in contact of officials who had tested positive, were not isolated.In its reply, the state government gave a clean chit to all officials and employees of the health department. The reply mentioned the dates when officials and employees, who tested positive, but parried a few other questions. The government told the rights body that the officials were tested positive between April 3 and April 7.The state government has also initiated a probe on how health officials are testing positive in large numbers. Health commissioner Faiz Ahmed Kidwai on April 7 said that the reasons are being investigated. The district administration has been directed to investigate their contact history. Necessary action will be initiated according to the prescribed protocol.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/health-officials-who-tested-positive-did-not-flout-norms-govt-tells-hrc/articleshow/75101920.cms||---
April 12, 2020||Chennai||Four Chennai doctors now have Covid-19, hospital cordoned off||CHENNAI: Four doctors practising in Chennai have tested positive for Covid-19, the directorate of public health said on Saturday, adding that they did not have a history of travel and that they could have contracted the disease from one of their patients. One of them, a 27-year-old woman tested positive after her father, a neurosurgeon, was admitted to an isolation ward in a private hospital in a critical condition. While doctors and staff in the hospital where the neurosurgeon was admitted have been quarantined for testing, the multi-speciality hospital in Old Washermenpet where the 27-year-old tested positive was also cordoned off by Greater Chennai Corporation. Disinfection work was carried out in the hospital and in neighbouring localities. “We have isolated all the patients and staff who had come in contact with the doctor. She visits the hospital thrice a week. She had last visited the hospital on April 2,” said an official of the corporation’s zone 5 (Royapuram). Of the 182 cases testing positive for Covid-19 in Chennai so far, Royapuram has recorded 46, the highest. The city has the maximum number of cases in the state and unlike in the districts, the cases aren’t in a cluster but have been spread across all zones. The official said that the doctor who resides in Anna Nagar may have contracted the virus from her father who is already positive. “But in epidemiology it may be tough to say who has contracted it from whom unless we do a detail tracking. It is also possible that she contracted the disease and gave it to him. She did not show symptoms for a long time,” a senior doctor said. Civic body officials have drawn samples from 22 people who had come in contact with the doctor. “We are awaiting the test results,” the official added. Among the others are a 44-year-old Government Hospital doctor in Perambur, who was admitted to the Rajiv Gandhi Government General Hospital (RGGGH) on April 9 after he developed symptoms, and a doctor at a clinic at the city airport who is now at a private hospital.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/four-city-docs-now-have-covid-hosp-cordoned-off/articleshow/75102387.cms||Srikkanth D
April 12, 2020||Hubballi||Lockdown makes NK ministers more tech-savvy||Hubballi: Several key ministers in the B S Yediyurappa government are turning tech-savvy, and are using best-in-class Apple and Android-based smartphones to remain active on various social media platforms. Amid the lockdown, the ministers are using WhatsApp, Facebook and Twitter to keep track of the problems being faced by the people, and attending to their grievances. Some ministers are interacting with officials and the public, through video conferencing. However, like in other sectors, ministers in North Karnataka are falling behind in using technology, compared to their South Karnataka counterparts. Accounts of many ministers from North Karnataka, on Facebook and Twitter, are still limited to one-way communication to wish people or to share some information related to Covid-19. Following chief minister Yediyurappa’s meeting with Prime Minister Narendra Modi through video conferencing on April 2, some North Karnataka ministers have decided to use video conferencing to hold meetings with officials. Mines and geology minister C C Patil, who is also in charge of Vijayapura and Gadag districts, convened a meeting through video conferencing on April 2 with Vijayapura deputy commissioner Y S Patil and other district officials. His meeting through video conferencing was continued on April 3 with Gadag deputy commissioner M G Hiremath, superintendent of police Yatish N and ZP CEO Anand on April 3. Home minister Basavaraj Bommai, who represents Shiggaonv-Savanur assembly segment in Haveri district, but is given charge of Udupi, conducted a meeting with the Udupi DC, ZP CEO and SP on Tuesday. Responding to the grievance of one Harish R Adavi on Twitter on April 2, forest minister Anand Singh postponed the last date for applying for the post of Karnataka forest guard. Deputy chief minister Govind Karjol has showed his openness by sharing newspaper clippings in which he is criticised, on his Twitter handle. Commenting on the trend, minister for large and medium scale industries Jagadish Shettar said that mobiles were just an instrument to make calls for politicians earlier. “Nowadays, mobile phones are turning into multipurpose instruments to direct officials and attend to the grievances of the public, particularly during the lockdown. Turning tech-savvy does not mean maintaining a distance from the public. Apart from instructing officials over WhatsApp, we are also attending to routine duties, while abiding by the lockdown,” he added. He said that as the district in-charge minister for Dharwad and Belagavi, he is performing his duties both online and offline. “Earlier, we used to defer some issues, a decision for which could be taken at the next meeting, but the lockdown is forcing us to act instantly. In order to take immediate action, we are depending more on technology,” he said||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hubballi/lockdown-makes-nk-ministers-more-tech-savvy/articleshow/75099733.cms||Sangamesh Menasinakai
April 12, 2020||Ahmedabad||Availability of hand sanitizer, masks improve in state||Ahmedabad: With the unprecedented demand for face masks and hand sanitizer amid the Covid-19 pandemic, Gujarat has seen availability and production of these products being ramped up quickly.Data complied by the Gujarat Food and Drug Control Administration (FDCA) shows that 17.86 lakh masks were available at manufacturer and distributor levels across the state on April 11. This figure was just 3.68 lakh on March 21.Similarly, stocks of hand sanitizer have also increased from 5.02 lakh units (packs of different sizes) to 20.61 lakh units in the same period.Gujarat FDCA has been tracking availability of sanitizer and masks in the market on a daily basis since March 21.“Over the past month and a half, as many as 268 licences have been issued to existing and new players to make hand sanitizer in the state,” said H G Koshia, commissioner, Gujarat FDCA.“We issue licenses to interested players as quickly as possible so that they can go into production without delays. The new entrants have ventured into manufacturing of these personal hygiene products to cater to the sharp jump in demand as well as for philanthropy,” he added.Although, face mask manufacturing does not require a licence from the state FDCA, the regulator has helped mask makers solve their problems with regard to supply of power, raw material and manpower, to ensure that production is not hampered.There as 10 major units engaged in manufacturing of surgical masks in Gujarat. “These units with sizeable capacity cumulatively make 5.65 lakh masks (two and three ply) per day. While the capacity to make N95 masks in Gujarat is 45,000 a day,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/availability-of-hand-sanitizer-masks-improve-in-state/articleshow/75101925.cms||---
April 12, 2020||Bhopal||Reached out to 70L in MP during Covid crisis: BJP||Bhopal: As part of the BJP’s ‘feed the needy’ campaign aimed at providing relief to people facing harships during the 21-day Covid-19 lockdown, the party has claimed that it has reached 70 lakh persons in 15 days. “The BJP, with a target to reach 5 crore persons in the country, has exceeded in Madhya Pradesh by reaching up to 70 lakh people during the Covid-19 crisis. Initially, we had planned to reach at least 45 lakh in the state. But, apart from ready meal and ration, the party has also successfully set up community kitchens to help the needy. The mission will continue till crisis ends,” said BJP state president, V D Sharma. Under the programme, the BJP has distributed ration to 7 lakh people and provided ready meals to many. The party has also taken up preparing and distribution of home made masks across the state through women self-help groups. “So far, we have distributed 6 lakh home made masks and encouraged several self-help groups and communities to prepare and distribute the masks. Not only BJP workers, even family members of the party workers, including my wife, are contributing for the cause,” he said. The BJP has also encouraged one lakh persons to donate in ‘PM Cares’fund, on the call given by the party’s national president J P Nadda. The BJP has also identified workers and labourers returning from Madhya Pradesh from other states and provided them food, medical facilities. “Several workers in Panna and parts of Bundelkhand coming in from other states have been tested for Covid-19 and quarantined. We are also providing relief to workers from Madhya Pradesh staying outside the state. We helped workers in Talangana and Chennai, who were in trouble and had called up for relief,” said Sharma. The state BJP has roped in more than 50,000 workers to serve people at various locations and district headquarters as the lockdown period is likely to be extended, and this would continue till the crisis is over, he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/reached-out-to-70l-in-mp-during-covid-crisis-bjp/articleshow/75101928.cms||---
April 12, 2020||Bhopal||Humanity first: City volunteers wage a war against hunger during the lockdown||Bhopal: At the time when people are scrambling for essentials amid the corona lockdown, Bhopal’s Good Samaritans are facing all kinds to hurdles to supply food and other essentials to the homeless and needy. Cops, they say, stop them asking for passes before granting permission to move out. A lot of homeless and needy people are totally dependent on these volunteers for their two square meals during the COVID-19 pandemic. Individuals and groups have taken up the task to ensure that not a soul stays hungry amid the lockdown. However, these volunteers are able to supply the food in limited quantities at the time when bulk needs are being given preference over individual meals. Saumya Singh, a volunteer heading a group of helpers supplying food packets to the needy at various parts of the city, said, “We coordinate with community leaders of Shehri Mazdoor Sanghtan who help us decide the quantity of food and essentials needed to be procured. Our focus is on providing basics to people such as flour, rice, cooking oil, vegetables, detergents, soaps and items of daily use. With restrictions imposed on our mobility, we are finding it difficult not only to get the food grains etc., but also to take them to the needy people. But despite all odds, our efforts are on.”Another volunteer, Chandni Asnani and her team are focused on providing essential hygiene products to the poor and needy. “We have been trying to divert the calls to official numbers provided. Earlier we had been coordinating among ourselves for requests of essential medicines and food from different parts of the city, but now we can’t cater to all of them. People help us deliver supplies in bulk on some days, and on other days, we try to place orders online and help them out.”Volunteers have been receiving calls mainly from areas situated right in the heart of the city. These include Gautam Nagar, Sabri Nagar as well as areas like Ganga Nagar, Jaat Khedi, Sargam Basti, Bagh Farhat Afza etc. The requests are largely from daily wage workers who have lost all means of livelihood due to complete lockdown.Pet lovers are doing their bit as individual responsibility. Samarth Amarnani, a branding consultant, said, “Earlier, I had been feeding stray dogs around Lalghati, but now, I also procure food to distribute among cows, cats and pigs. During epidemics, we never think of animals and their well-being and I want to change this thought process.”(By Aishwarya Shrivastav)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/humanity-first-city-volunteers-wage-a-war-against-hunger-during-the-lockdown/articleshow/75102409.cms||---
April 12, 2020||Nashik||Sanitisation vans for police personnel at checkposts||Nashik: Commissioner of police Vishwas Nangare Patil has made two sanitisation vans available for police personnel so they can sanitise themselves while leaving for home after their duty. “While fighting Covid-19, the police are handling law and order and restricting the movement of people on the streets. One never knows when police personnel can get infected. Hence, we have got the sanitisation van for their safety,” Patil said. A sanitisation van has a spray system built inside it. There might be minuscule droplets settled on the uniform of police personnel. The vans will help to sanitise the person. “After having done their duty at the various checkpoints, police personnel return home. Generally, they go home in the same clothes and in case they get the infection unknowingly while on duty, their family members will also be at risk of contracting the infection. Hence, the sanitisation vans were made available.” deputy commissioner of police Pournima Chaughule Shringi said. “The vans will be at the checkpoints where there is a change in the shift. The personnel will get inside the same and get sanitised. However, they need to maintain all kinds of measures as per the health advisories,” the officer added.The spray has chemical solution comprising sodium hypochloride, soap and water mixed in a formula that helps in disinfecting. It is recommended across the world for sanitisation. “The NMC health officer RS Tryambake has helped us with the chemical solution,” the officer added..||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/sanitisation-vans-for-police-personnel-at-checkposts/articleshow/75102397.cms||---
April 12, 2020||Mangaluru||Keep DK out of Covid-19 hotspot list: KCCI||Mangaluru: Kanara Chamber of Commerce and Industry has urged additional chief secretary to state government in-charge of health and family welfare services, Jawaid Akhtar, to exclude Dakshina Kannada from the Covid-19 hotspot or red zone list. In a letter to Akhtar, Isaac Vas, KCCI president, said with no fresh Covid-19 cases reported in the district in the last six days, and five of the 12 positive cases getting cured and discharged, Dakshina Kannada should not be on the list. Giving credit for effectively controlling the spread of Covid-19 to the district administration, and the people of the district for their cooperation, Isaac said stakeholders have maintained social distancing and used masks and hand sanitisers to good effect. The lockdown has effectively controlled the spread of Covid-19, but people of the district are facing hardship due to not having work to earn money, and consequently food has become scarce. Dakshina Kannada reported a total 12 Covid-19 cases, including four from Kasaragod, one from Bhatkal, two from Bantwal and one each from Mangaluru (Thokkottu), Belthangady, Sullia and Puttur. Cases from Kasaragod and Bhatkal were from people with a travel history abroad. Of the 12 cases reported, five have recovered completely, and have been discharged. Others are showing signs of recovery. None of the Covid-19 patients in the district was admitted to the ICU or put on a ventilator, he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mangaluru/keep-dk-out-of-covid-19-hotspot-list-kcci/articleshow/75100570.cms||---
April 12, 2020||Ahmedabad||CM conducts review meeting with civic body officials||Gandhinagar: With Covid-19 cases rising in cities of Gujarat, chief minister Vijay Rupani on Saturday held a meeting with mayors, municipal commissioners and chairmen of standing committees to assess the situation and draw up a plan to counter the pandemic. The CM instructed that complete scanning and surveillance of people should be done in Covid-19 hotpots in mega cities. He also said that plans must be drawn to deliver essential items to people at their homes to enhance social distancing. Rupani also instructed officers to encourage more and more people to download the ‘Aarogya Setu’ application developed by the government of India. The application is useful in providing details to the user in case he or she comes in contact with a Covid-19 affected person or area. He also instructed the officers to take stringent actions against all who attacked medical staff and health workers.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/cm-conducts-review-meeting-with-civic-body-officials/articleshow/75101934.cms||---
April 12, 2020||Ahmedabad||Transporters seek industry body’s support to address manpower woes||Ahmedabad: Reeling from a severe manpower shortage, logistics and supply-chains across sectors, both for essentials as well as medicines have been severely hampered. In the wake of concerns over a likely shortage of essentials that may arise, Akhil Gujarat Truck Transporters’ Association (AGTTA) recently sent a representation to Gujarat Chamber of Commerce and Industry (GCCI), seeking the industry body’s help in easing labour woes during the lockdown. “Migration of workers has led to a major shortage of manpower with no labourers or drivers at godowns. Moreover, non-availability of food & breakdown/repairs assistance on roads is a major deterrent for workers to join the workforce,” states the representation. “Even though the central as well as state government have taken many active steps to remove restrictions of movement of commercial vehicles carrying essential as well non-essential goods, but closure of industrial units, APMCs and various distribution houses have on the contrary restricted the free flow of vehicles which in turn has severely disturbed the continuity of supply chain of essential commodities in the state of Gujarat,” the representation further added. According to AGTTA estimates, less than 5% transport vehicles are currently plying on the roads across the state. This includes milk vans and oil tankers used to transport fuel, apart from vehicles plying to supply essential commodities such as food grains, medicines, vegetables, milk and other FMCG products. Explaining the scenario, Mukesh Dave, president, AGTTA, said, “Thousands of loaded trucks are stranded on the highway which are unable to reach to their final destinations and many vehicles have been abandoned on the road by starved drivers. This has also restricted the flow of industrial in-and-out movement as well primary movement of many FMCG goods, in turn trading and production line in industries is badly affected. and now over a period of time, as stocks in pipeline is also exhausted, it has brought in a feeling of shortage in the market.” When contacted, GCCI president, Durgesh Buch, confirmed that the representation has been received. “The shortage of labourers and manpower is crippling trade and industry and the entire logistics and supply chain. Members are examining the points represented by AGTTA and after consultation with the industry, GCCI will make a representation to the state government regarding this by Monday,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/transporters-seek-industry-bodys-support-to-address-manpower-woes/articleshow/75101953.cms||---
April 12, 2020||Nashik||NMC seeks police help to assist Asha workers during door-to-door survey||Nashik: The Nashik Municipal Corporation (NMC) has decided to seek the help of city police to assist Asha workers in conducting a door-to-door survey.On Friday, there was an incident where some Asha workers were opposed by residents of Bajrangwadi in Vadala area from doing the health survey. To avoid such incidents from happening again in future, the NMC has decided to approach police for the safety of Asha workers.“These Asha workers also informed residents that the survey was being conducted in the interest of the people. But the people were not in a condition to listen to them,” said Raju Desle, president, of Asha workers’ association.The NMC officials said they will take appropriate measures in this connection. The civic body has already deployed teams in all 31 wards of the municipal corporation to conduct the survey, which consists of medical staff, nurses and Asha workers.They have been advised to check if any residents are suffering from fever or other Covid-19 symptoms. They are also checking if any individual with travel history has not gone under home / institutional quarantine.The teams are also providing medicines to individuals with minor health complaints. At the same time also creating awareness about the Covid-19 cases. They have distributed over 1.5 lakh hand-bills to the residents informing them about the precautions they should take to prevent from Covid-19.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/nmc-seeks-police-help-to-assist-asha-workers-during-door-to-door-survey/articleshow/75102415.cms||Tushar Pawar
April 12, 2020||Ahmedabad||Now, three-tier Covid-19 healthcare system in Ahmedabad||AHMEDABAD: For the first time after Ahmedabad Municipal Corporation (AMC) scaled up Covid-19 testing across the city, a three-tier Covid-19 health care system is being put in place by the municipal health authorities. It includes a Covid care centre, a Covid health care centre and the Covid intensive care. The strategy is being planned in order to avoid overcrowding the hospitals that provide critical treatment to patients. AMC commissioner Vijay Nehra said that the newly set up Covid care centre at Samras hostel in Navrangpura would principally cater to asymptomatic Covid-19 patients, who are stable, have no co-morbid conditions and are aged between 18 and 60 years. At present, the Samras hostel has a capacity to cater to 1,000 individuals at a time. Another tier of health facility that the AMC is aiming at is the Covid health centre. This will specifically cater to patients who require oxygen. In this, the existing health facilities like VS Hospital, LG Hospital and Shardaben Hospitals have been roped in along with major urban health centres which will double up as a facility. “We have also consulted medical associations that if need be private hospitals too can be roped in to aid the medical facility,” said Nehra. And lastly, the third tier of Covid-19 care is the intensive care which will be handled by the two major civil hospitals of Sola and Asarwa, and the third being the SVP Hospital in Ellisbridge. “I am confident that our existing infrastructure will be capable of handling Covid-19 cases and providing adequate care,” stated Nehra. Senior AMC officials said that from Sunday onwards random Covid-19 tests would be performed on clustered populations in chawls and slums. A senior AMC official told TOI: “Already, disinfection drive has covered a large portion of the city and it will be repeated for several areas as well. However, a critical issue will be to conduct Covid-19 tests in slums and cluttered areas of the city to know the prevalence of the disease in the local population.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/now-three-tier-covid-19-healthcare-system/articleshow/75102421.cms||---
April 12, 2020||Mangaluru||e-commerce firm served notice over providing explosive materials||Mangaluru: The Mangaluru city police, who are investigating the case of an explosive device being placed at the Mangaluru International Airport(MIA), has served a legal notice to an e-commerce giant for supplying a kilogram of sulphur and potassium nitrate, each, to accused Aditya Rao. According to Rao, he had procured the explosive material through the online platform, and it was supplied from Madhya Pradesh and Maharashtra. The Mangaluru city police had written to one of the major e-commerce companies to give an explanation about supplying sulphur and potassium nitrate to Rao. “We received the e-commerce giant’s reply a few weeks ago. In their reply, they have stressed that both the materials are not banned substances, and can be shipped anywhere. They have mentioned that they have cooperated with the city police, throughout the investigation, in order to provide necessary details pertaining to the case. The sulphur and potassium nitrate were supplied from Madhya Pradesh and Maharashtra, respectively. Our police officers were prepared to visit the two places from where the explosives were procured, but couldn’t do so due to the lockdown,” said a senior police officer. On being interrogated, Aditya Rao revealed that he purchased most of the materials required for the IED, online. “We got hold of his e-commerce account and downloaded his history. Later, we contacted the e-commerce company through whom he procured the explosive material, and sought details about the suppliers of the materials, and they have cooperated in this regard,” he said, adding that the supplier in Maharashtra, who supplied potassium nitrate, and Madhya Pradesh, who provided sulphur, have been identified. Aditya Rao, 36, a mechanical engineering and an MBA, is a resident of Manipal, and had an aversion towards airports, which reflected in his past criminal behaviour as well. According to police, he had a fair knowledge of the technical aspects of bomb making, which he learnt online. He did an elaborate study on how to make explosives for a long time. “He procured these materials after gaining knowledge about their uses,” said the official. Cyanide procured from Tamil Nadu Aditya Rao had procured cyanide from Tamil Nadu. “According to Rao, he went personally to a place in Tamil Nadu and bought the cyanide. He procured the cyanide as he wanted to end his life if his plan did not work out, or if he got disabled while planting the bomb,” the official added. Eom||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mangaluru/e-commerce-firm-served-notice-over-providing-explosive-materials/articleshow/75101247.cms||Kevin Mendonsa
April 12, 2020||Indore||‘It’s a matter of life & death, please stay at home’||CM Shivraj Singh Chouhan tells TOI in an excusive interview that saving lives is of paramount importance for his govt in the Covid-19 crisis. He urges people of MP to obey the lockdown in this ‘critical phase’. ExcerptsAre you thinking of swearing in health and home ministers since the state is battling an unprecedented Covid-19 crisis?It is a fact that the council of ministers works together as a team for the betterment of the state, and being together helps during challenging times. The safety of public representatives is also important. Every representative is somehow a part of this fight. I am coordinating with MLAs and MPs of the state and with their consultation and important suggestions, I am taking decisions for the state’s welfare. It’s an unprecedented situation, this global pandemic. As soon as I took charge of the state and the responsibility to fight this corona crisis, I put everything into it. Our priority is to fight the virus. First of all, we have to control this epidemic. Civic interest, public health and safety are paramount and our biggest responsibility. Whatever decision is taken regarding formation of the cabinet, you will certainly be informed about it. There is a surge in Covid-19 infections. How do you plan to prevent community spread?We are well aware of this. That is why, under the leadership of Prime Minister Narendra Modi, this decision of complete lockdown was taken at the right time. We are not going to compromise and we will try our best to stop the spread here itself. We are making people aware and are consistently appealing to them to support us and stay indoors for their safety. This is a critical period. If people do not understand this, things may get worse, which is why we are doing everything to ensure the purpose of lockdown is fulfilled. What are your plans for Indore and Bhopal amid rising corona cases? How long and stringent will the lockdown be?It is a question of life and death. For me, the highest priority in any situation is the well-being of every person in Madhya Pradesh. Right now, my highest duty is to protect their health and if we cannot get out of danger in this 21-day lockdown, and there is a need for some more time to raise the alertness or handle certain conditions, then the lockdown can be extended. It is our responsibility to be patient and support each other. I hope we will overcome this crisis very soon. The state's economy is also our concern. Whatever decision is right for Madhya Pradesh will be taken. When the coronavirus risk wanes and the number of infected starts to decrease, then we can decide to lift the lockdown. Indore and Bhopal have our full attention, and are under constant monitoring. Instructions have been issued to ensure availability of human resources, equipment and medical aid. We appeal to everyone to strictly follow social distancing and lockdown. Indore and surrounding areas have more people traveling abroad than other regions. Infections were not detected at the initial stage due to lack of awareness and tendency among foreign returnees to hide. This is why people who came in contact with them unknowingly also spread this infection. As per the instructions of the central government, a containment plan is ready, under which Plan A and Plan B have been prepared and work on both is on. Under Plan A, those infected and suspects are monitored. In Plan B, tests, blood samples, etc. are taken. Under rapid action, we have increased the number of investigation teams in affected areas, in which three kinds of teams are working. One team gives public awareness and consultation. The second goes to homes to take samples and the third team provides support to people on a psychological level and tries to remove their fear and tension. We have arranged to get samples from the home instead of at the hospital. What action is being taken on the ‘missing Jamaat members’ and other outsiders? How many are yet unknown?We have received information about 107 people attending the Delhi event of Tablighi Jamaat. Initially, the infection spread to them from people from abroad. We are investigating each suspect and infected person. The situation is under control. Those who hide infection will be subjected to action under the law. Adequate arrangements for contact tracing, screening, isolation and quarantine have been made by the district administration in areas where people have come from abroad or wherever infected / suspected patients have been found. The government is constantly appealing to people to break the link of contact. Instructions are given not to hold any social event -- neither in temples, nor mosques, churches or Gurudwaras. Despite all this, some people are trying to hide infection. Some people of the Jamaat hid the infection, which led to virus spreading in many districts. It’s not just a question of their life. They are risking the lives of others as well. This cannot be allowed. Strict action will be taken against them. Such incidents have occurred in many places. People have been arrested. If anyone breaks the ban, a case will be registered and they will not be spared. Migrant workers have tested positive in some areas. How do you plan to handle them?Migrant workers have been put up at 2,792 locations. Food for them has been arranged at 4, 671 places in which private individuals and institutions are cooperating. Separate health test centres have been set up at 1,804 places at the gram panchayat level for migrant labourers. They are getting regular check-ups. A list of workers who are ill is being prepared and monitored till their recovery. Daily wagers are facing problems. Do you have any alternate arrangement for them?Adequate arrangements have been made to provide food and ration to the needy. Many labourers from our state work in other states. More than 5.7 lakh workers had come to MP by April 3. Recently, Rs 88 crore was deposited in the accounts of 8.85 lakh labourers – Rs 1000 per worker. We are concerned for those who do not fall under BPL category, who are not getting wages due to the lockdown and those who have not got foodgrains for three months. We have arranged to provide them food two times from Panch Parmeshwar Yojana funds. On an average, 2 lakh people are being fed daily in rural areas and 2.5 lakh in urban areas. Ration is also being given to people whose ration cards have not been made. The state government will provide 5kg free ration to the poor from Corona quota -- even to those who are not eligible for National Food Security Scheme. During total lockdown, availability of grocery and vegetables is a big problem and corporations in Indore and Bhopal can’t manage it. What is the way out?This is a very tough time. We are trying our best to provide supplies to the needy. My sincere apologies to those facing a tough time. Both Indore and Bhopal are big cities, which is why, unfortunately, people face trouble sometimes. We are trying to fulfil everyone’s requirement. In case of trouble I request everyone to be patient. We will certainly provide help to everyone. Three months’ advance ration has been provided to all ration card holders. Many social organizations have also come forward to help. So far, ration has been made available to more than 5 crore beneficiaries. Adequate arrangements have been made to ensure that there is no shortage of food grains. I request everyone to follow lockdown honestly and not to leave their homes. Go out of the house only when there is any emergency. Please do not worry, have patience, all these arrangements are for your safety. In case of emergency, contact health helpline 104 and CM Helpline 181. Lockdown is being strictly followed, yet we have given instructions to open milk and medicine shops. People are expected to fully support the administration.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/indore/its-a-matter-of-life-death-please-stay-at-home/articleshow/75105108.cms||Rajendra Sharma
April 12, 2020||Nashik||Garment manufacturer makes 2,000 masks daily in Nashik||NASHIK: A city-based private garment manufacturer is producing 2,000 masks everyday in his factory at Dindori road to help the administration in combating Covid-19. Jairam Dialani, owner of the company, contacted the commissioner of police (CP) offcie and sub-divisional officer (SDO) Dindori seeking permission to start the manufacturing on a large scale. “We went to the concerned authorities for the necessary permissions of our vehicles and operation of our factory. They immediately gave us a nod to go ahead with the production of masks. We have started manufacturing 2,000 masks per day from April 7,” Dialani told TOI. Dialani said that more than 100 women work at his factory that manufactures ethnic wear for some branded companies. Since there is police embargo and the workers cannot come to the factory from far places, they have started making masks with only 14 workers. “We have contacted many of our workers and arranged for their everyday travel. From the next week, we will double the number of workers with which we will be able to make more than 4,000 masks per day,” he added. The company has already received orders in bulk for the masks, he said. “The APMC has asked us to supply 3,000 masks. We have also received orders from few a gram panchayats with demand of over 15,000 masks. People from Dhule district have also contacted us for a bulk supply. We are striving hard to prepare masks on time and fulfil their demands,” said Dialani. Contrary to the the disposable masks available in the market, these masks are washable and reusable. “These masks can be washed and reused for at least a year. This will reduce the people queuing at the medical stores to buy masks repetitively. Also, the disposable masks harm the environment while these are made up of 100 per cent cotton fabric which are also comfortable in using,” said Dialani. The company has no interest in making any profit while the world is fighting a pandemic. Hence, they are selling the masks on a no-profit no-loss basis. “We do not want to make any profit by manufacturing these masks as this is not our primary business. We are doing it because we have the facilities available in our factory. But since we have to manufacture these in bulk, we cannot give away the masks for free. Although, we are donating masks on our personal level,” he added. One mask costs the manufacturer Rs 12 and he is selling them for the same amount.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/garment-manufacturer-makes-2000-masks-daily/articleshow/75102422.cms||pragya jain
April 12, 2020||Bhopal||‘It’s a matter of life & death, please stay at home’||CM Shivraj Singh Chouhan tells TOI in an excusive interview that saving lives is of paramount importance for his govt in the Covid-19 crisis. He urges people of MP to obey the lockdown in this ‘critical phase’. ExcerptsAre you thinking of swearing in health and home ministers since the state is battling an unprecedented Covid-19 crisis?It is a fact that the council of ministers works together as a team for the betterment of the state, and being together helps during challenging times. The safety of public representatives is also important. Every representative is somehow a part of this fight. I am coordinating with MLAs and MPs of the state and with their consultation and important suggestions, I am taking decisions for the state’s welfare. It’s an unprecedented situation, this global pandemic. As soon as I took charge of the state and the responsibility to fight this corona crisis, I put everything into it. Our priority is to fight the virus. First of all, we have to control this epidemic. Civic interest, public health and safety are paramount and our biggest responsibility. Whatever decision is taken regarding formation of the cabinet, you will certainly be informed about it. There is a surge in Covid-19 infections. How do you plan to prevent community spread?We are well aware of this. That is why, under the leadership of Prime Minister Narendra Modi, this decision of complete lockdown was taken at the right time. We are not going to compromise and we will try our best to stop the spread here itself. We are making people aware and are consistently appealing to them to support us and stay indoors for their safety. This is a critical period. If people do not understand this, things may get worse, which is why we are doing everything to ensure the purpose of lockdown is fulfilled. What are your plans for Indore and Bhopal amid rising corona cases? How long and stringent will the lockdown be?It is a question of life and death. For me, the highest priority in any situation is the well-being of every person in Madhya Pradesh. Right now, my highest duty is to protect their health and if we cannot get out of danger in this 21-day lockdown, and there is a need for some more time to raise the alertness or handle certain conditions, then the lockdown can be extended. It is our responsibility to be patient and support each other. I hope we will overcome this crisis very soon. The state's economy is also our concern. Whatever decision is right for Madhya Pradesh will be taken. When the coronavirus risk wanes and the number of infected starts to decrease, then we can decide to lift the lockdown. Indore and Bhopal have our full attention, and are under constant monitoring. Instructions have been issued to ensure availability of human resources, equipment and medical aid. We appeal to everyone to strictly follow social distancing and lockdown. Indore and surrounding areas have more people traveling abroad than other regions. Infections were not detected at the initial stage due to lack of awareness and tendency among foreign returnees to hide. This is why people who came in contact with them unknowingly also spread this infection. As per the instructions of the central government, a containment plan is ready, under which Plan A and Plan B have been prepared and work on both is on. Under Plan A, those infected and suspects are monitored. In Plan B, tests, blood samples, etc. are taken. Under rapid action, we have increased the number of investigation teams in affected areas, in which three kinds of teams are working. One team gives public awareness and consultation. The second goes to homes to take samples and the third team provides support to people on a psychological level and tries to remove their fear and tension. We have arranged to get samples from the home instead of at the hospital. What action is being taken on the ‘missing Jamaat members’ and other outsiders? How many are yet unknown?We have received information about 107 people attending the Delhi event of Tablighi Jamaat. Initially, the infection spread to them from people from abroad. We are investigating each suspect and infected person. The situation is under control. Those who hide infection will be subjected to action under the law. Adequate arrangements for contact tracing, screening, isolation and quarantine have been made by the district administration in areas where people have come from abroad or wherever infected / suspected patients have been found. The government is constantly appealing to people to break the link of contact. Instructions are given not to hold any social event -- neither in temples, nor mosques, churches or Gurudwaras. Despite all this, some people are trying to hide infection. Some people of the Jamaat hid the infection, which led to virus spreading in many districts. It’s not just a question of their life. They are risking the lives of others as well. This cannot be allowed. Strict action will be taken against them. Such incidents have occurred in many places. People have been arrested. If anyone breaks the ban, a case will be registered and they will not be spared. Migrant workers have tested positive in some areas. How do you plan to handle them?Migrant workers have been put up at 2,792 locations. Food for them has been arranged at 4, 671 places in which private individuals and institutions are cooperating. Separate health test centres have been set up at 1,804 places at the gram panchayat level for migrant labourers. They are getting regular check-ups. A list of workers who are ill is being prepared and monitored till their recovery. Daily wagers are facing problems. Do you have any alternate arrangement for them?Adequate arrangements have been made to provide food and ration to the needy. Many labourers from our state work in other states. More than 5.7 lakh workers had come to MP by April 3. Recently, Rs 88 crore was deposited in the accounts of 8.85 lakh labourers – Rs 1000 per worker. We are concerned for those who do not fall under BPL category, who are not getting wages due to the lockdown and those who have not got foodgrains for three months. We have arranged to provide them food two times from Panch Parmeshwar Yojana funds. On an average, 2 lakh people are being fed daily in rural areas and 2.5 lakh in urban areas. Ration is also being given to people whose ration cards have not been made. The state government will provide 5kg free ration to the poor from Corona quota -- even to those who are not eligible for National Food Security Scheme. During total lockdown, availability of grocery and vegetables is a big problem and corporations in Indore and Bhopal can’t manage it. What is the way out?This is a very tough time. We are trying our best to provide supplies to the needy. My sincere apologies to those facing a tough time. Both Indore and Bhopal are big cities, which is why, unfortunately, people face trouble sometimes. We are trying to fulfil everyone’s requirement. In case of trouble I request everyone to be patient. We will certainly provide help to everyone. Three months’ advance ration has been provided to all ration card holders. Many social organizations have also come forward to help. So far, ration has been made available to more than 5 crore beneficiaries. Adequate arrangements have been made to ensure that there is no shortage of food grains. I request everyone to follow lockdown honestly and not to leave their homes. Go out of the house only when there is any emergency. Please do not worry, have patience, all these arrangements are for your safety. In case of emergency, contact health helpline 104 and CM Helpline 181. Lockdown is being strictly followed, yet we have given instructions to open milk and medicine shops. People are expected to fully support the administration.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/its-a-matter-of-life-death-please-stay-at-home/articleshow/75102426.cms||Rajendra Sharma
April 12, 2020||Nashik||Shirdi trust asks people to register for blood donation||Nashik: Shri Saibaba Sansthan Trust, Shirdi, has come up with a unique blood donation drive in which they are requesting regular blood donors to register for the initiative now and donate later.The temple trust has also released a phone number for registration where a dedicated personnel take down the caller’s details and medical history. It helps them in creating a database and calling up the person when his/her blood is required. Arun Dongre, chief executive officer (CEO), Shri Saibaba Sansthan Trust said, “There is a possibility of acute shortage of blood once the lockdown is lifted and patients suffering from various illnesses will start approaching hospitals for treatment. We want to be ready for any such situation.” The CEO also said that those who wish to donate blood should register with them now so that they can be communicated when the need arrives. They can contact on 02423-258525 for registration.“People should register their names, mobile numbers and blood records with our Shri Sainath Blood Bank at Shirdi. We have taken the initiative after the state government has instructed various social organisations to conduct blood donation camps,” added Dongre.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/shirdi-trust-asks-people-to-register-for-blood-donation/articleshow/75102424.cms||pragya jain
April 12, 2020||Hyderabad||GHMC ropes in SHG to stitch 60k masks||Hyderabad: The Greater Hyderabad Municipal Corporation (GHMC) has roped in women from self-help groups (SHGs) to stitch 60,000 cloth masks for GHMC sanitation workers. “The women began stitching the masks on Wednesday, all masks will be ready in the next two days,” said mayor Bonthu Rammohan. The municipal corporation will pay Rs 12 per mask to the SHG members. The masks will be distributed to 20,000 sanitation workers, 2,500 swachh auto drivers and their assistants. Each worker will be given two masks and these will be in addition to the masks presented to them earlier. TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/ghmc-ropes-in-shg-to-stitch-60k-masks/articleshow/75102593.cms||---
April 12, 2020||Bhopal||MP gets 55 in a day, coronavirus count 529||INDORE/BHOPAL: Madhya Pradesh recorded 55 new cases on Saturday – the Covid-19 curve shooting up after being flat for two days. The state’s corona count is now 529, and with one more death in Indore during the day, MP’s toll has touched 40. The bulk of the cases, again, were from Indore. Thirty-two new positive reports took its count to 281 – over half of the state’s number. The Indore administration’s report showed 17 more cases (total count 298), but these didn’t reflect in the state bulletin. Bhopal had a comparatively better day after a weeklong scare, recording a dozen cases. The capital’s count is 131. The Bhopal district administration on Saturday restricted movement on 43 roads, and ordered that areas around the homes of all 131 patients will be declared containment areas. Bhopal now has a whopping 131 localities as containment zones, and Indore 82. Bhopal collector Tarun Pithode appealed to citizens to maintain a record of all the people they have met since the lockdown and also those they will be meeting from hereon. Ratlam and Mandsaur were put on the Covid-19 map with their first cases, but hearteningly, several districts – including Ujjain, Khargone, Barwani, Kahndwa and Dhar – didn’t see any rise in their figures. While one patient each recovered in Jabalpur and Bhopal, three patients were discharged from Ujjain. The number of patients who have recovered rose to 38 on Saturday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/mp-gets-55-in-a-day-corona-count-529/articleshow/75101961.cms||---
April 12, 2020||Kolhapur||Second Satara patient dies, Dhule toll also touches 2||Kolhapur/Nashik: The coronavirus-related death toll went up to two in both Satara and Dhule districts. While a Satara patient died on Saturday, a few days after the district’s first patients death, two positive patients passed away in quick succession (Friday and Saturday) in Dhule. In Satara, a 54-year-old man died early on Saturday morning. The patient was admitted to Krishna Hospital in Karad last week. Satara district collector Shekhar Singh said the patient was diabetic and was suffering from pneumonia. His throat swab report came positive on April 6. Officials said that the patient was critical since admission to the hospital. This is the second death in Satara district. The first death was reported on April 6 when a 63-year-old Covid-19 positive patient died of cardiac arrest. District civil surgeon Dr Amol Gadikar said that the patient, who died on Saturday, had come to his native village near Karad on March 21. The patient had come from Navi Mumbai along with his daughter and two granddaughters. He had started showing symptoms on his arrival to his native village. Officials said that the patients approached private doctors and got admitted in Krishna Hospital when he became critical. Meanwhile, in Dhule, the first two Covid-19 positive patients died undergoing treatment at the Bhausaheb Hiray Government Medical College and Hospital, Dhule. While one died on Friday afternoon, even before the test results had come in, the other died on Saturday. A 53-year-old man from Sakri taluka and 22-year-old woman from Malegaon city were admitted to the hospital on Thursday night. They tested positive on Friday, Dr RI Suryawanshi, the medical superintendent of the hospital, said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolhapur/second-satara-patient-dies-dhule-toll-also-touches-2/articleshow/75101957.cms||---
April 12, 2020||India||Pune firm first in India to get government funding for Covid vaccine||NEW DELHI: The Union science and technology ministry will fund a Pune-based firm to develop a vaccine for Covid-19 which is expected to enter phase-1 trial in 18-20 months. Seagull Biosolutions is the first company the government is financially backing for coronavirus vaccine efforts. It will also produce at-home test kits for Covid-19 that can detect even asymptomatic infections. For both purposes, Seagull will use its existing Active Virosome Technology (AVT) which can develop novel Active Virosome agents to induce antibodies. The firm is developing two kinds of agents to produce 19 types of neutralising antibodies to fight the new coronavirus. While the first agent will express the S protein — which mediates attachment of the virus to the host cell surface receptors — the other will express structural proteins of Covid-19. The company, enrolled with the Union ministry under its Seed Support System scheme with the Technology Development Board, will conduct tests on wild mice to check efficacy of the two AV agents. The next round of tests would be on mice models of SARS disease and later on monkeys or another small animal. The AV-vaccine agent will then be prepared for phase-1 clinical trials. Vishwas Joshi, founder and MD of the firm, told TOI that the vaccine could be fast-tracked if clearances for animal testing are given on time. Joshi also said their AVT platform has previously been used to develop vaccines for ebola, zika, chikungunya and dengue. “For coronavirus, we will evaluate the ability of AV agents to induce anti-Covid-19 neutralising antibodies and cellular immune responses,” he said. The same AV agents are also being used by the firm to develop at-home test kits for Covid-19. The currently available polymerase chain reaction (PCR)-based diagnostic kits can detect active infections but cannot identify asymptomatic infections. In contrast, immunodiagnostic kits developed by the firm will detect antibodies to Covid-19 and, thus, identify asymptomatic infections too. Department of science and technology (DST) secretary Ashutosh Sharma said the firm will help in diagnostics to break the chain of transmission as well as develop preventive measures, including safe and effective vaccines. The department has earmarked Rs 56 crore for start-ups working on Covid-19 solutions under its ‘Centre for Augmenting WAR with Covid-19 Health Crisis (CAWACH)’ programme.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/pune-firm-first-in-india-to-get-government-funding-for-covid-vaccine/articleshow/75102784.cms||Rohan Dua
April 12, 2020||Pune||Pune: PCMC’s overnight decision to close facilities puzzles people||PIMPRI CHINCHWAD: An overnight decision of the civic body to close all vegetable markets till midnight on April 14 has flummoxed residents. Late on Friday night, a WhatsApp forward began doing the rounds, stating that Pimpri Chinchwad Municipal Corporation had decided to shut all markets — major and minor, from Saturday onwards. Municipal commissioner Shravan Hardikar confirmed that he had issued the order. “It is a coordinated action with Pune Municipal Corporation for a limited time to prevent the virus’ spread. The crowds were not thinning at Gultekdi market despite it being in a containment zone. So that was closed, first. Then people started coming to other APMC markets, like the one in Moshi, forcing us to take this call,” Hardikar said. Hardikar said, in his opinion, a 3-4 day closure wouldn't not hamper the supply chain. “Shopkeepers were given time til 6pm to exhaust their stocks,” he said. However, shopkeepers in the retail market, who run grocery and medical stores with a vegetable stall, were a worried lot. “Our stocks are running low and some items, like tomato and spinach, will perish if unsold,” Kantaben Rawal, a grocery store owner, said. Such multipurpose store owners are staring at losses to the tune of Rs8,000-10,000 over the next three days. In another appeal, the Sangvi Police Station said all shops, including grocery outlets, will remain open only between noon and 4pm. The police also said milk and medical stores would remain open round the clock.  “This move can backfire as people will come out to purchase vegetables and fruits in large numbers on April 15. PCMC, with help from police, should have enforced social distancing instead, activist Maruti Bhapkar said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/pcmcs-overnight-decision-to-close-facilities-puzzles-people/articleshow/75102444.cms||Satyanarayan Iyer
April 12, 2020||Jaipur||Door-to-door food delivery fails to reach needy||Jaipur: The wait to receive food for many poor people in the state capital is growing longer as government’s door-to-door delivery service is derailed after 20 days. Despite changing the strategy thrice, the door-to-door food distribution scheme has failed to reach poor. After the lockdown, the state government announced to provide food items, including flour, oil etc, to the poor during the lockdown. As per the estimation, there are 1.20 lakh poor people in eight constituencies. However, the Jaipur Municipal Corporation (JMC) has distributed 20,000 food packets till date. According to sources, “The dry ration material has not been distributed to all the families in the list prepared by the civil defence as there is a pressure from local MLAs and party workers to distribute ration through their workers as per their list in the constituencies.” Sources further said, after dry ration material is being released from the godowns (stock site created by the administration), officials are not monitoring where it is being distributed. Due to this many remains without food. Sources said, the distribution work is done by lower level staff, while the officers are carrying out their responsibility only till the release of the ration material from the offices or godowns to avoid conflict with public representatives. Ratan Jog Mal, who is stranded in Pratap Nagar, said, “Around 250 families are facing a crisis of ration in Pratap Nagar area. Neither help is received from the administration nor they are getting wheat from the ration shop,” he said. In the early days of lock down, the system of dry ration was started door-to-door and civil defence team was given responsibility. However, after political opposition it was started at the police station level. This system was changed too and distribution work was made through Jaipur Municipal Corporation (JMC). It has been accused that in the assembly constituencies, party workers are distributing ration only to the favourites. Ganesh Lohariya, a resident of Jhalana, said, there is no help from the government and family is surviving by the help of house owners in nearby colonies who are distributing food.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/door-to-door-food-delivery-fails-to-reach-needy/articleshow/75101975.cms||---
April 12, 2020||Kolhapur||Cops step up vigil on smaller village roads along NH4||Kolhapur: Kolhapur police have increased surveillance at the smaller roads along the Mumbai-Bengaluru national highway, which lead to villages in the district. So far, the vigil was largely at the toll plazas and entry points of Kolhapur city. Police officers said they noticed people working in Mumbai and Pune were using smaller roads leading to villages, which further connect to the city to bypass the checks at on the highway.Police have identified some of these roads connecting to the main roads like National Highways and state highways, which have seen a rise in vehicular movement.“Our police teams are deployed on major entry points at Kolhapur on Pune –Bengaluru National Highway and other major roads. They are keeping a close watch on the people attempting to enter the district. We noticed that people from Pune, Mumbai and other cities are entering the district through other routes that are usually used by the local villagers,” said a senior police officer.“We have immediately taken note of this and deployed the police on these routes to ensure that no one from the other districts enters Kolhapur. Anyone who enters is screened and kept in institutional quarantine for 14 days,” he said.The police officer added that the personnel deployed at Kini toll plaza have been shifted to the banks of Warana river near Ghunki village to ensure that people coming from Pune and Mumbai are stopped there. It was noticed that they were entering from Ghunki and other villages located on NH4 and moving further to their villages instead of moving forward on NH4 to Kini toll plaza where we have set up check post,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolhapur/cops-step-up-vigil-on-smaller-village-roads-along-nh4/articleshow/75101969.cms||---
April 12, 2020||Delhi||Three shelters housing 150 people gutted, Delhi cops point at food row||NEW DELHI: Three night shelters at Yamuna Pushta occupied by around 150 people went up in flames on Saturday evening, stunning Delhi government and police already grappling with the Covid-19 outbreak. While police are investigating the fire and some arrests have been made, the incident seems a fallout of simmering anxieties and a fight for survival among the homeless, people having free meals there and migrant labourers housed there following the national lockdown. Police said on Saturday that the fire resulted from a more serious of the many intermittent quarrels between the inmates over distribution of food. It is also learnt that on Friday, when fruit given by a donor was being given out, one of those who had come with the distribution group was attacked with a knife. The ugly situation was controlled by staff and civil defence volunteers. Delhi Urban Shelter Improvement Board member Bipin Rai, who reached the site soon after receiving news of the fire, said prima facie, the unrest began with the rumour that a body discovered in the Yamuna on Saturday around 3pm was of a homeless inmate of the shelter, which then lead to an altercation and eventually to the shelter being put on fire. According to police, the original inmates had been alleging that ever since the workless labourers were given shelter there, the quality of food had deteriorated. Anil Mittal, additional PRO, Delhi Police, claimed that these disgruntled inmates also clashed with civil defence volunteers deployed to ensure social distancing. “On Friday, when the civil defence volunteers chased the inmates, some of them jumped into the Yamuna. Four people were pulled out safely, but one was claimed to be missing. On Saturday, a body was recovered near Civil Lines and the inmates claimed he was the missing man and created a ruckus.” As rumours of an inmate’s drowned body being discovered spread rapidly, tension escalated. Some unidentified people pelted stones at the night shelter for reasons as yet undetermined. When the caretakers of the night shelters fled to save themselves, some people barged into the shelters and torched them, according to police sources. Police have arrested six people and registered cases of rioting against them. The body found in the river remains unidentified. However, there are other stories about the circumstances leading up to the fire. One version is that the unrest began on April 5 when DUSIB directed the management agencies to ensure inmates were locked in to ensure social distancing and meals were served only to those are staying at the shelter. The order, of which TOI has a copy, also stated that DUSIB would make payments per meal to the agencies based on the daily occupancy reports. On the face of it, the order could be seen as promoting the lockdown norms, but created anxiety and ambiguity over the status of those who are not homeless but queue up for food at the shelters. Rai, however, claimed that the order was recalled when it became clear that it was not possible to distinguish those not staying, only eating at the shelter. “We are serving food to everyone,” Rai insisted. Giving details of the fire at the shelters near ISBT, Atul Garg, director, Delhi Fire Services, said, “We received a call about the fire around 6pm. Three night shelters located at a distance of 50 metres were aflame. The blaze was extinguished in an hour and no causality was reported. Six fire tenders were used to douse the flame.” Watch Covid-19: Fire breaks out at shelter home in Delhi's ISBT||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/3-shelters-housing-150-people-gutted-cops-point-at-food-row/articleshow/75102461.cms||---
April 12, 2020||Jaipur||Shelter homes making kids feel at ‘home’ during lockdown||EDITED: Jaipur: Even as schools, hostels and colleges go empty in the wake of the Covid-19 pandemic, thousands of children continue with their routine with a little more caution in government shelters that are ‘home’ to them. Confinement to home is not such a novel experience for most of these kids who came to these homes after being abandoned by family or due to being in conflict with law. Aware of the pandemic that has swept the outside world, they do their best to beat the blues, while maintaining social distancing. “The state government has been extremely sensitive on the issue and even before the nationwide lockdown got imposed, social distancing measures including restrictions on staff movement were implemented in care homes across Rajasthan,” says commissioner child empowerment department, Veena Pradhan. It is a routine practice for such care homes to involve the children in entertainment activities and skill learning. These efforts have further been boosted due to the lockdown. A 17-year-old Rama (name changed) says, “There has been no reduction in the gaming or any such activities, but we have been asked to ensure that social distancing is duly followed and the children wash their hands at regular intervals. We also no longer sit side by side in group activities. Even during dance activities, we stand apart from each other.” Some students also find time to read at the library on campus, but are asked to sit at a distance. Interactions with councillors and family members are now only being done through video sessions. A major change that has come into their lives is that they are being asked to wash hands regularly and maintain social distancing. However, it’s not just the kids that are impacted. Over a dozen caretakers of government girls and childcare centre at Gandhinagar, Jaipur, have made their workplace their home, for past couple of weeks now. These caretakers, all women, no longer visit their homes, so as to ensure safety of nearly 70 children, for whom the government shelter is home. Similar efforts are being made across the over 200 childcare homes being run by the government and associated NGOs.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/shelter-homes-making-kids-feel-at-home-during-lockdown/articleshow/75101979.cms||---
April 12, 2020||Aurangabad||First TJ case in city, another woman also positive||Aurangabad: Two people were detected with the Covid-19 infection on Friday, taking the total of such cases to 20, including one death and one recovery. A 29-year-old man from Yadav Nagar in Hudco N-11 has been detected with the coronavirus. Municipal health officer Nita Padalkar said that man has been to the Tablighi Jamaat event in Delhi’s Nizamuddin. This is the first confirmed case with a direct Tablighi connection in city. Apart from him, a 40-year-old woman from Deolai was also detected with Covid-19 infection. Padalkar said that this woman had come in contact with another patient detected with the virus last week. The Aurangabad Municipal Corporation (AMC) has sealed the localities from where the two fresh cases have emerged. So far, the AMC has sealed Cidco N-4 sector F and H, Aref Colony, Padampura, Jalal Colony, Kasliwal Tarangan in Mitmita, Peshve Nagar in Satara, Ahebab Colony and Kiradpura. The door-to-door screening is underway in these localities. So far, 189 contacts of confirmed cases have tested negative and have been asked to remain in home quarantine. Padalkar said that all the Covid-19 cases are admitted to the district civil hospital. “Some cases are asymptomatic and some with mild symptoms and all of them are stable,” she said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/first-tj-case-in-city-another-woman-also-positive/articleshow/75101285.cms||---
April 12, 2020||Nagpur||Three more make full recovery, discharged||Nagpur: Three patients, earlier found positive for Covid-19, were discharged after making full recovery at Indira Gandhi Government Medical College and Hospital, on Saturday taking the total number of discharged patients to eight. Eight more patients at IGGMCH and GMCH are likely to get discharge soon.The three discharged on Saturday are immediate family members of 42-year-old Khamla businessman who was discharged on Friday. They are his mother (59) who is the oldest to recover till now, wife (34) and son (14).IGGMCH staff led by deputy medical superintendent Dr Sagar Pande gave a round of applause to all three as they walked out of the hospital. “Samples of 14th and 15th day of all three were negative. Therefore, dean Dr Ajay Keoliya and other authorities approved the discharge. Five more positive patients are undergoing treatment in Mayo and are likely to get discharge soon,” Dr Pande told mediapersons.The businessman and his daughter, only one to test negative in the family, performed pooja of all three when they reached home.Businessman’s mother said, “It is like we are back from 14-day vanvas. We are obliged to doctors of Mayo Hospital who treated all of us very well. I appeal to people of Nagpur to stay at home and avoid hospitalization,” she said.She was having diabetes and also high blood pressure and yet made a full recovery.They had spent a total of 17 days at Mayo Hospital.Businessman’s manager and his daughter, assistant and his daughter are undergoing treatment at Mayo Hospital. Iskcon member who is also a lawyer from Central Nagpur is also admitted at Mayo Hospital. All are doing well and likely to be discharged.Assistant of businessman’s elder brother, a paralytic patient, his wife and son from Jaripatka are admitted at GMCH.Around 40 close contacts of Khamla businessman are yet to be released from institutional quarantine at MLA Hostel despite having completed over 15 days. Reports of all of them are pending.Ten of 38 from Jaripatka who are close contacts of the assistant were released from MLA Hostel on Saturday. Reports of 28 are awaited.As of now, city has registered 27 positive patients. City had recorded one death of a person from Satranjipura. The person’s Covid-19 status could be known only after his death.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/three-more-make-full-recovery-discharged/articleshow/75101985.cms||Anjaya Anparthi
April 12, 2020||Chennai||Court dismisses plea against use of railway coaches for isolation||Chennai: The Madras high court dismissed a plea seeking to restrain the Union government and the railways from converting train coaches into Covid-19 isolation wards. “Allowing such pleas will reduce energetic services rendered by various people,” the court said. The plea moved by M Munusamy claimed that provisions for ventilators and other equipment needed to treat Covid-19 patients cannot be provided in the coaches and added that sanitary condition of the coaches would not be appropriate. Justice S Vaidyanathan passed dismissed it after the railways counsel P T Ramkumar submitted that the coaches are converted to isolate patients with mild symptoms, who might not need hospitalisation. Ramkumar said Covid-19 patients are categorised into three groups - mildly and very mildly affected persons, moderately affected persons and severely affected persons. “Those, who fall under Group-I (mild and very mild) will be housed in the coaches) which are merely going to be used as isolation wards and will not, at any cost, be used as hospitals,” Ramkumar said. The carriages will be mobile and can be moved to places in need where there is no place for setting up isolation wards, he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/court-dismisses-plea-against-use-of-railway-coaches-for-isolation/articleshow/75102460.cms||---
April 12, 2020||Nashik||Sanitiser booth at civic headquarters, hospitals||Nashik: The Nashik Municipal Corporation (NMC), in association with NGOs and private firms, is setting up sanitiser booths at its offices and various hospitals in the city to protect its employees and medical staff from contracting Covid-19 infection. The booths have been set up at the NMC headquarters in Rajiv Gandhi Bhavan as well as Dr Zakir Hussain and Bytco hospitals. The first-of-its-kind in the city, these sanitiser booths or tunnels have been developed by the Global Razvi Foundation (GRF). They have been installed at the entrances of these establishments and those who enter will first have to go through these booths. “We are a group of motivated individuals who want to assists our police, doctors, sanitation workers and other frontline personnel in the fight against Covid-19. GRF has also distributed more than 250 essential grocery kits, blankets and are now looking to install sanitation booths at more locations,” said Fahim Sayyed, director of GRF. In addition, a city-based private firm Arkin ventures Pvt. Ltd. has also donated a sanitiser tunnel to municipal corporation under their corporate social responsibility (CSR) initiative.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/sanitiser-booth-at-civic-headquarters-hospitals/articleshow/75102446.cms||Tushar Pawar
April 12, 2020||Pune||Pune: 13 Tablighi Jamaat members booked||PUNE: The city police on Thursday booked 17 people for disobedience under Section 188 of the Indian Penal Code. Those booked include 13 Tablighi Jamaat members from Ranchi and four trustees of a mosque in Ganesh Peth. The Faraskhana police had received a telephone call, stating that Azan (call for prayer) was given at the mosque, following which a team rushed to the spot and took 17 people into custody. “The 13 community members had visited Pune for the annual congregation, but don’t have links with the Nizamuddin event. They stayed in the mosque after the lockdown period came into force, but the trustees did not share this information with the police,” deputy commissioner of police (Zone I) Swapna Gore told TOI. All 17 have been sent for medical examinations. “One should not be a carrier and affect others,” Gore said. “We have also booked them under Section 52 (1) of the Disaster Management Act,” Gore said, adding that efforts were on to collect the travel history details of the 13 people.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/13-tablighi-jamaat-members-booked/articleshow/75102448.cms||Asseem Shaikh
April 12, 2020||Kolhapur||Crime branch arrests 2 for hoarding kerosene to sell in black market||KOLHAPUR: The local crime branch on Saturday seized two kerosene tankers and arrested two people for allegedly hoarding the inflammable liquid for trading it in the black market. The duo didn’t deliver the entire stock of kerosene to the ration shops, instead, were selling to people in black. The police took action after they got information about the suspects and raided the spot at Ichalkaranji and seized the tankers. The duo have been booked under essential commodity act. They have now started taking action on the morning walkers as well as the evening walkers. As many as 40 people have been booked under several sections of IPC for breaking lockdown guidelines. Special teams have been formed to keep a close watch on the people going out for evening walk and will take action against them as per law. Police have also seized 350 motorcycles so far from the people violating lockdown rules without any valid reason. Police have also booked two people, who have travelled from Telangana to Ichalkaranji using ambulance at wee hours on Friday. They are also searching the owner of the ambulance and will book him.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolhapur/crime-branch-arrests-2-for-hoarding-kerosene-to-sell-in-black-market/articleshow/75101981.cms||---
April 12, 2020||Hubballi||In Hubballi, residents in containment area cooperate to ensure success of lockdown||Hubballi: The district administration and law enforcement authorities were at their wits’ end trying to persuade the residents of Hubballi to respect the lockdown, and stay indoors. Although successful to an extent, many residents kept straying on to the roads, much to the chagrin of the authorities. However, the confirmation of the first Covid-19 case in Hubballi has successfully ensured that a majority of the residents are adhering to the lockdown. Police have stepped up patrolling and several roads are being barricaded. This, coupled with a rise in awareness among the public, has helped the Dharwad district administration impose the lockdown more systematically. Curbing vehicular movement Police are using bamboo sticks in order to erect barricades in order to check vehicular movement on the streets of Hubballi. All roads within the containment area have been effectively barricaded and those loitering on the streets needlessly are being dealt with strictly. ASHA, anganwadi workers roped in for survey Owing to the sheer magnitude of the area currently under containment, the district administration has reached out to ASHA and anganwadi workers to assist the authorities in carrying out the survey of all the residents. Meanwhile, pourakarmikas are sprinkling the entire containment area with sodium hypochlorite. The containment area in question, circumscribed by a three-kilometre radius with Mulla Oni as the epicentre, comprises seven zones and 35 wards with a population of more than 5.7 lakh. For the past two days, nearly everyone within in this restricted area has stayed indoors. The district administration is ensuring that all the essential commodities are being delivered at the residents’ doorstep.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hubballi/in-hubballi-residents-in-containment-area-cooperate-to-ensure-success-of-lockdown/articleshow/75101284.cms||---
April 12, 2020||Ranchi||Soren’s appeal to PM: Hike NREGA wages to Rs 300, clear pending central dues & sanction kits||Ranchi: Chief minister Hemant Soren on Saturday demanded that the Centre increases MNREGA wages to Rs 300 for each job card holder from the existing Rs 194 in view of the nationwide lockdown and the increase in joblessness because of the Covid-19 pandemic. Soren made the demand to Prime Minister Narendra Modi during the video conference the latter held with other chief ministers of the country on Saturday. Soren, however, did not make any comments, unlike several other CMs, on the issue of extension of the ongoing lockdown. Besides seeking funds, Soren also appealed to the PM to sanction health equipment placed by Jharkhand government at the earliest to speed up Covid-19 tests. State health minister Banna Gupta along with senior administrative officials also attended the video conference along with Soren from the Project Building here. During the conference, Soren said, “The crisis has hit rural economy hard and a state like Jharkhand, which has about 40% tribal population, is staring at difficult times due to the uncertainty. After the lockdown, over five lakh people, who are daily labourers and migrant workers, are expected to return to the state. All of them have to be screened properly and put at quarantine centres. After this, there will be a challenge to provide employment to them. Therefore, the Centre must consider increasing MNREGA wages to Rs 300 now.” Apprising the PM about the financial crisis faced by the state government, Soren urged him to facilitate crores of pending payments by public sector undertakings (PSU) such as CCL and BCCL among others, which are operating in Jharkhand. He said, “All PSUs with hefty pending royalties and payments to the state government through central shares must be directed to clear the dues to help us improve the state’s financial status.” To increase liquidity, the chief miister also requested Modi to increase the Centre’s lending cap to the state. He said, “Currently, there is a moratorium of only taking central loan of up to 3% of the gross domestic state produce (GDSP). I request you to increase this cap to 5% so as to overcome the state’s revenue shortfall. The loans must also be made available interest-free, at least for the current fiscal.” Recalling the state’s earlier demand of protective and testing kits, Soren requested Modi to process them at the earliest, citing the rising cases Covid-19 in the state. On Saturday, Jharkhand’s total count of Covid-19 positive patients increased to 17. Nearly 1,000 people have been screened in the state so far. Soren said, “There is a need for more tests. We have already demanded 300 ventilators, 10,000 testing kits, one lakh rapid testing kits in the past, but sanctions are still awaited.” During the half-an-hour-long interaction with 14 other chief ministers via video-conferencing, Soren also elaborated on the efforts undertaken by the state government to enforce lockdown and ensure food to the poor. He also informed the Centre that his government is considering to bail out farmers through procurement of their Rabi produce and linking them with markets.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/sorens-appeal-to-pm-hike-nrega-wages-to-rs-300-clear-pending-central-dues-sanction-kits/articleshow/75101310.cms||ASRP Mukesh
April 12, 2020||Ranchi||Police advisory against rising cybercrime during lockdown||Ranchi: Police issued an advisory to people of the state, asking them to remain alert against cybercrime which has seen a rise during the lockdown period. On Friday, two men were arrested for allegedly siphoning off Rs 53 lakh by duping several people through a fake website of the Prime Minister’s Relief Fund to fight novel coronavirus. In another case, senior lawyer from the city, Milan Kumar Dey, received a call from his bank asking him if he had done any transaction in the recent past. When he replied in the negative, the bank official asked him to block his card immediately as someone was trying to misuse it. Dey has informed the cyber cell about the illegal transaction attempt. A few days ago, a Kokar resident got a call, informing him that he has won Rs 25 lakh and the caller asked him if he wanted to encash it. Sandip Kalia, a former bank employee, said that one should never pay heed to such messages because banks usually call the customers to office to carry out any important transactions. IG Navin Kumar said, “The cyber cell had warned people, in general, that criminals may create fake websites related to Covid-19 and get access to personal details of the public in the name of giving them information regarding the disease. Police have also warned the people, saying they should not transfer money, meant for helping the government in its fight against coronavirus, to any unverified accounts published in social media.” Police have also cautioned people not to open any unverified links on social media to gather information on Covid-19. They further said people must avoid downloading apps like ‘Corona Infection Tracker’ and ‘Corona Live’ since such apps could lead hackers gaining access to their personal information.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/police-advisory-against-rising-cybercrime-during-lockdown/articleshow/75101245.cms||Sanjay Sahay
April 12, 2020||Mysuru||Farmers elated as South Karnataka receives good pre-monsoon showers||Mysuru: Amid the lockdown, one thing that has brought smiles back on the face of farmers in the entire South Interior Karnataka is good pre-monsoon rain. In the past 11 days, the entire region received sufficient rain and most farmers started preparations for various farm-related activities. All the district administrations have exempted farm services from lockdown restrictions to ensure that the farmers do not face any difficulties. As per the data of Karnataka State Natural Disaster Monitoring Centre (KSNDMC), in the past 11 days, all the taluks of Mysuru district received excess rain. HD Kote taluk received 29.9 mm rain while T Narasipura (30.1 mm), Mysuru taluk (26.4 mm), Hunsur (25.9 mm), KR Nagar (25.9 mm), Nanjanagud (24.1 mm) and Periyapatna received 21.5 mm rain. “The taluks in the district received 68% to 178% excess rain compared to normal times,” said an official. Mandya district too received excess rain. In Mandya, Pandavapura taluk received the highest rain in the past 11 days, registering 49 mm rain. In Kodagu district, Madikeri taluk received 41.4 mm rain followed by Somawarpet (29 mm) and Virajpet (20.4 mm). “Various places in Chikkamagalur, Shivamogga and Hassan also received good rain,” said an official. According to G Srinivas Reddy, director, KSNDMC, the pre-monsoon showers were due to a low pressure area developed over the state in the past few days. “Now this system has ended and there is no rain forecast for the next few days,” he said. “Keeping in mind the requirements of farmers, Atalji Janasnehi Kendra and Bhumi Kendras have been asked to start operations immediately. In these centres, farmers will be provided RTC and caste certificates required to procure fertilisers, seeds and farm equipment,” said a revenue official.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mysuru/farmers-elated-as-south-karnataka-receives-good-pre-monsoon-showers/articleshow/75100853.cms||---
April 12, 2020||Ranchi||Ramgarh becomes first dist in state to make masks mandatory||Ramgarh/Ranchi: In a first, the Ramgarh district administration on Saturday made it compulsory for everyone to wear masks when stepping out of their homes to keep the virus from spreading. Ramgarh deputy commissioner Sandeep Singh in an official release said, “As part of the precautionary measures, the district administration is now mandating masks for everyone and the new rules have been notified under the Epidemic Diseases Act. Those found violating the rule will be prosecuted under section 188 of the IPC.” He added, “All those, who are planning to step out, must put on a three-layer mask or cover the entire area from their chin to the nose’s bridge with scarfs or a piece of cloth. Masks are a must even while driving or travelling via public transport.” No other district in the state has made wearing masks in public compulsory. Ramgarh has not reported any positive cases of Covid-19 so far. However, the district administration on Saturday sealed a private clinic and sent seven medical workers, including two doctors, to quarantine after learning that the workers came in contact with a 75-year-old man from Sadam village of Gomia block in Bokaro, who died on Thursday after testing positive for coronavirus.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/ramgarh-becomes-first-dist-in-state-to-make-masks-mandatory/articleshow/75101234.cms||---
April 12, 2020||Ranchi||3 more test positive for Covid-19, state count at 17||Ranchi/Hazaribag: Three more persons tested positive for Covid-19 in Jharkhand on Saturday, taking the state’s total count toll to 17 (16 active cases and one person has died). One person each from Hindpiri locality in Ranchi, Rajdhanwar in Giridih ditrict and Bishnugarh in Hazaribag district tested positive on Saturday, state health secretary Nitin Madan Kulkarni said. In Ranchi, Hindpiri continues to be the epicentre of the disease with the 62-year-old chief cleric of one of the three mosques with Tablighi Jammat links tested positive. Sources said he had come in direct contact with Jamaat members. A 22-year-old man from Rajdhanwar and a 35-year-old from Bishnugarh in Hazaribag returned home from Mumbai last month and are likely to have been infected at their workplace or during their travel, officials sais. Talking to TOI, Ranchi SDM Lokesh Mishra said: “We collected the sample of the cleric during a contact-tracing drive in Hindpiri on April 7 even though he was asymptomatic. We have now collected samples of six members of his family and sent them for tests. A health department surveillance team has started looking for his secondary contacts based on the inputs from the cleric and his family.” The 22-year-old patient in Koderma was admitted to an isolation ward at sadar hospital on April 6 after he was referred by a private doctor in Giridih district he visited after developing symptoms a week after his arrival from Mumbai on March 23. Initially, the doctor prescribed him medicine for cold and cough, but referred him to Koderma district hospital on April 5 when his situation didn’t improve. Koderma DC Gholap Ramesh Gorakh said, “The patient was admitted at isolation ward of sadar hospital on April 6 and his samples were collected the same day. We have now shifted him to our dedicated Covid-19 centre in Holy Family hospital.” Gholap added he has informed Giridih officials about the developments so that they can take necessary measures in the patient’s village and nearby areas. Gholap and Koderma SP M Tamil Vanon visited the border areas of the district and sealed seven routes connecting the district with Giridih. “We have sealed all routes leading to Koderma from Giridih and started door-to-door surveillance and sanitization drive in seven villages along the border. The private clinic in Markachho and Sadar Hospital Koderma has also been sanitized,” Gholap added. In Hazaribagh, after the 35-year-old man from Kharkhi village tested positive, SP Mayur Patel and SDO Megha Bhardwaj reached his village and sealed it. A health and sanitization team started door to door screening and sanitization across the village. Talking to TOI, Hazaribag DC Bhuvnesh Pratap Singh said: “The man had returned home from Mumbai on March 20. After he fell sick in his village, he was brought to a quarantine centre on April 6. He is admitted at the Covid-19 block in Hazaribag Medical College hospital.” On being inquired about his links with the first positive case from Hazaribag, Singh said: “He does not have any link with the man who was tested positive after his return from Asansol on March 29.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/3-more-test-positive-for-covid-19-state-count-at-17/articleshow/75101286.cms||Gaurav Pandey
April 12, 2020||Ranchi||With delicacies on the menu, RJD’s ‘Lalu Kitchen’ pulls people to Rims||Ranchi: Over the last week, a long queue builds up outside a community kitchen operating near the state-run Rajendra Institute of Medical Sciences (Rims) in Ranchi before meal time every day. Even as the poor have been flocking to various kitchens across the city for food during the lockdown, this one is particularly popular because of its mouth-watering menu. Run by RJD workers on instructions from their party president and former Bihar CM Lalu Prasad, who is admitted to Rims for treatment of various ailments even as he serves jail time in fodder scam cases, the ‘Lalu Kitchen’ serves different delicacies to people every day. A day after they served puri-sabzi and halwa for dinner, Saturday’s menu included khichdi with ghee, pickle and papad. Every morning a platter of rice, daal, vegetables, pickle, onion and chilies are served to people along with filtered water. RJD functionaries said the meals are being served from 9am to 11am and 7pm to 9am. The delicious food served here has pulled a large number of people who used to queue up at the state-run ‘Hemant (Soren) Kitchen’ at the nearby Bariatu police station in the first few days of the lockdown. More than 1,000 people are visiting the Lalu Kitchen every day, RJD leaders said. A school-going girl said, “I went to the government kitchen first but later decided to eat here after learning about its menu. No one can eat daal-bhaat or bland khichdi everyday.” A local police officer also admitted that the RJD kitchen has lessened the crowd at police community kitchen to a considerable extent. Apart from the poor and the needy, a large number of relatives of patients undergoing treatment at Rims, who are finding it hard to get food under the present circumstances, are queueing up for food here. State RJD president Abhay Singh said, “Laluji has always helped the poor wherever he goes. Since he is at Rims now, we opened a kitchen for the needy here. A large number of poor people from across the state come here for treatment. We are serving them and their relatives. Discharged patients are also eating here as they are stranded.” Promising that the free kitchen will continue as long as the lockdown remains in place, Singh said a handful of party workers procure the ingredients from party funds and money collected from donors. RJD is also distributing masks and sanitizers to people at the kitchen.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/with-delicacies-on-the-menu-rjds-lalu-kitchen-pulls-people-to-rims/articleshow/75101215.cms||Sanjay Sahay
April 12, 2020||Ranchi||14-year-old kidney patient dies at Rims||Ranchi: A 14-year-old girl with kidney ailments, who hailed from Hindpiri locality, the epicentre of Covid-19 in the city, died at Rims on Saturday morning while waiting for coronavirus test results to get her dialysis done. The deceased was a resident of Mujahid Nagar of Hindpiri and private hospitals have been refusing patients from the area without Covid-19 negative result certificates. Her condition deteriorated on Saturday and she was rushed to Rims but was declared brought dead by the doctors. Hindpiri residents said she was supposed to visit Medanta Hospital on Thursday, however, her parents received a call from the hospital expressing their inability to provide dialysis without citing any reasons. The girl’s father rushed to a few friends in the locality for help. The community members then approached the Ranchi civil surgeon Dr V B Prasad, who assured them that the girl’s sample will collected and after she receives the result, she can visit the hospital for dialysis. Medanta Hospital head Md Mokhtar denied that they had made any such calls to patient’s kin and said, “We have only instructed our staff to be careful and not to admit any new patients, but we are attending to our regular patients and we haven’t denied service to anyone.” The deceased had been visiting Medanta for the last seven months and got her dialysis done at the hospital. Md Afroz, a Hindpiri resident said, “I was approached by the girl’s father. We requested the district administration to arrange for her test at the earliest, but neither did test results came on time nor the private hospital provided her dialysis, which led to her death.” Dr Prasad said, “As we had information that Rims had over 250 samples pending for tests, we had collected her samples and sent it to MGM Jamshedpur for testing so that the girl could be provided with dialysis at the earliest. We are still awaiting the test results from Jamshedpur. We have preserved her body at the Rims mortuary.” Reacting to the issue, health secretary Nitin Madan Kulkarni said they have been requesting private hospitals to provide care to all non-Covid-19 patients. He said, “We are surprised by the private hospitals attitude and I, too, have received a few complaints from dialysis patients, who have been denied service. The move stems from the closure of a dialysis centre because of a Covid-19 patient visiting there. We have already directed them to treat patients with protective equipment so that patients do not suffer in these tough times.” He added, “We have already blacklisted a few private hospitals in the past for such attitudes and we will take legal action after conducting an enquiry into this case.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/14-year-old-kidney-patient-dies-at-rims/articleshow/75101114.cms||Gaurav Pandey
April 12, 2020||Ranchi||Form vigilance teams, conduct raids on PDS dealers, CM tells DCs||Ranchi: A day after convening a marathon meeting with legislators and parliamentarians on Friday, chief minister Hemant Soren on Saturday issued instructions to deputy commissioners of Hazaribag and Giridih to immediately take action against the PDS dealers who are cheating the beneficiaries. Soren also instructed all other DCs to form special vigilance teams and conduct surprise raids on dealers and shops selling food grains under the National Food Security Act. “During this coronavirus pandemic, it is an urgent priority of the state government to ensure food to one and all, and any lapses on part of the PDS dealers or shopkeepers will not be tolerated,” he said a tweet, asking the DCs to form teams for checks. Earlier on Friday, the chief minister reviewed the status of government schemes on the ground from 65 MLAs and three MPs through video-conferencing. During the conference, Soren received complaints from different MLAs about PDS dealers either not giving ration at all or providing less quantities. The conference was attended by a host of civil servants, including chief secretary Sukhdev Singh. Soren further directed the deputy commissioners to hold a meeting with the public representatives in their respective districts and collect information from them on the status of food security. “Since the complaints do not reach the government directly, the MLAs and the MPs can serve as bridge between the administration and the public. Hence, a regular meeting of the committee formed with district-level officials and local people’s representatives will serve the purpose,” he said. The government has ordered release to three-month advance ration to all card holders and also include those who have applied for new cards, which were not issued due to the lockdown.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/form-vigilance-teams-conduct-raids-on-pds-dealers-cm-tells-dcs/articleshow/75101175.cms||---
April 12, 2020||Ranchi||Ramgarh docs who attended Covid casualty quarantined, clinic sealed||Ramgarh: The district administration on Saturday sealed a private clinic in Katia village of Ramgarh district and sent two doctors and five staff of the clinic to quarantine after it came to be known that the 75-year-old man who died of Covid-19 in Bokaro’s Gomia block on Thursday were initially attended by the doctors. Ramgarh SP Prabhat Kumar said, “We received a tip-off that the two doctors had visited the septuagenarian at his home in Sadam village of Bokaro district after he complained of illness. Later, the man was referred to Bokaro General Hospital where he died.” He added, “The doctors did not inform us that they had visited the Covid-19 patient’s house even after news of his death arrived on Thursday.” Ramgarh civil surgeon Dr Neelam Chaudhary said, “After returning from his home, the doctors came in contact with five of their staff at the clinic and all the seven have been quarantined and their samples have been collected for tests.” Kumar informed that the clinic has been sealed. An official of the district administration said an exercise of contact tracing has been initiated to identify all the people who came in touch with the two doctors. “The doctors may have to face legal action for violating the safety norms after a probe is conducted,” the official added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/ramgarh-docs-who-attended-covid-casualty-quarantined-clinic-sealed/articleshow/75101267.cms||NK Agarwal
April 12, 2020||Ranchi||DHFL brothers’ cars registered with fake address in Steel City||JAMSHEDPUR: Two of the five luxury vehicles, used by DHFL promoters Kapil and Dheeraj Wadhawan to travel from Mumbai to Mahabaleshwar, were registered in Jamshedpur in October 2016. The Enforcement Directorate on Friday seized the five cars the brothers and 21 others, including their family members, travelled in on March 25. While three of the five vehicles in the cavalcade three vehicles were registered in Maharashtra, two had number plates — JH05-BP-0021 and JH05-BP-0015 — issued in Jharkhand under a fake address. The revelation has put Jamshedpur district transport office (DTO) officials in a spot. Talking to TOI on Saturday, district transport officer Dinesh Ranjan said: “The vehicles were registered in October 2016, long before I joined this office. Both the vehicles were purchased by a company named Ultra Space Developers Pvt Ltd and not any individual.” Ranjan said primary investigations have revealed that the permanent address of the company is at Lalpur in Ranchi and the temporary address furnished is ‘c/o Sashi Prakash Gope, Sankosai, Mango, Jamshedpur’. TOI found that a man named Debasish Gaur, who owns a two-wheeler showroom in the same area, lives at this address. When contacted, Gaur said he knows no one by the name of Wadhawan or Sashi. Gaur said he sells Suzuki two-wheelers and has nothing to do with the luxury brands used by the Wadhawan brothers. He also expressed surprise that someone used his address to register the cars without his knowledge. Replying to another query, Ranjan said the vehicles purchased from anywhere in the country can be registered at any district transport office, but proper documents have to be furnished at the time of registration. While he said that a car needs to physically presented at the DTO at the time of registration, he could not confirm if all the norms were followed in 2016. He said if the temporary address (Sankosai, Jamshedpur) furnished for the registration of the vehicles was fake or tampered with, legal action would be initiated accordingly. Ranjan said all government offices, including transport office, is closed due to the lockdown and it will take some time to investigate the matter. He assured that if there is any foul play in the registration of the vehicles, the guilty would not be spared. E-Vahan, the national registry of vehicles hosted by ministry of road transport, revealed that a vehicle with number JH05-BP-0015 is in the name of Aditya Vision Private Limited. Further probe suggests that it is fake company as the ministry of corporate affairs has no record related to this organisation. Joint commissioner of transport department Ravi Ranjan Vidyarthi said that they do not have any mechanism to verify the documents provided by the vehicle owner during registration. “We enter the address and names provided by the owner and they are uploaded in the Vahan portal exactly received,” he said. Vidyarthi said if there is anomaly in records of Jamshedpur DTO and the details available with the Vahan registry, it has to be investigated. With inputs from Jaideep Deogharia in Ranchi||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/dhfl-brothers-cars-registered-with-fake-address-in-steel-city/articleshow/75101136.cms||Debasish Chatterjee
April 12, 2020||Noida||Noida rejigs supply rule at hotspots for distancing||NOIDA: Groceries and essential items will be delivered at the doorstep in sealed Covid-19 containment zones in Noida. The district magistrate consulted RWAs and apartment owners’ associations and revised the rules on Saturday after a TOI report pointed out that single-point delivery of essentials was undoing what the sealing exercise meant to enforce — social distancing. For the first two days of the sealing of Covid-19 hotspots, delivery vans would stop outside the society gates and people would line up to buy things — waiting for a long time, surrounded by people with no social distancing possible. Now, mobile vans will be allowed up to houses in gated sectors. In condominiums, where RWAs have banned the entry of delivery agents and made collection at the gates mandatory since the beginning of the lockdown, they will not enter the premises but will make the rounds of several gates instead of just one so people don’t have to gather at one point of delivery. “We have allowed home delivery personnel to enter the premises of societies in containment zones for doorstep deliveries. RWAs have decided to either collect supplies from the gate, multiple points or towers. We expect everyone to maintain social distancing at all times,” said district magistrate Suhas LY. The trucks will also remain parked for longer, so people don’t need to hurry. The TOI report had pointed out that longer wait times were also putting people at risk. The Noida Authority said deliveries will be scheduled twice a day — from 10am to 1pm, and from 4pm to 6pm. With residents complaining about vendors assigned to their areas sometimes not being accessible, the Authority is also taking delivery orders on its helpline, 88600-32939, and on NOIDApp. On Friday, the administration got 720 calls — 252 for groceries, 233 for vegetables, 138 for milk and 97 for medicines, all of which were delivered, a district official said. Condominium residents, however, were concerned about senior citizens who would have to keep going all the way to the gate to buy supplies. “They are especially vulnerable. RWAs are stopping delivery personnel and asking people to collect supplies at the gate. It’s arbitrary,” said Pushkar Chandna, a Sector 62 resident. Officials said that since the decision about delivery point has been left to the RWA or AOA, it is up to them to figure out what works best as long as social distancing is maintained. “In some areas, RWAs have been asked to get volunteers for every tower or block to help with deliveries for senior citizens or other vulnerable groups,” an official said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/noida/noida-changes-supply-rule-at-hotspots-after-toi-report-points-out-a-flaw/articleshow/75102405.cms||---
April 12, 2020||Ghaziabad||Doctor at health centre has Covid-19, triggers fresh cluster worry in Ghaziabad||GHAZIABAD: A doctor in charge of a community health centre in Dasna is the latest among healthcare professionals across the country to be infected by the novel coronavirus. He was among two persons to test positive in Ghaziabad on Saturday, raising concerns about a fresh cluster emerging in the NCR city because he had not only treated patients at the health centre but also gone on calls to some areas. Police have sought details of the doctor’s call records so that they can identify all the areas he had visited and the people he met. “It will help the health department and police identify people he may have come in contact with. These people will be screened and placed in quarantine,” said GK Mishra, the district malaria officer and member of Ghaziabad’s Covid-19 response team. What has come as a relief is that 41 workers of the Dasna health centre who worked with the doctor till Friday have tested negative for Covid-19. The health centre has been sealed. With Saturday’s cases, Ghaziabad’s Covid count has reached 27. Apart from the doctor, the other person who tested positive is a Masuri resident who had attended the Tablighi Jamaat congregation in Delhi’s Nizamuddin last month. Till Saturday evening, the district administration was yet to seal the housing society off NH-9 at Golf Links where the doctor lives with his family. However, all its residents have been asked not to step out of their homes. “All residents have been asked to place themselves in home isolation. The entire area has been sanitised. We have also collected swab samples of the doctor’s family members. The process of sealing the housing society will start on Sunday and it will be included in the list of hotspot areas,” said Ajay Shankar Pandey, the district magistrate. “The health centre in Dasna, where the doctor was posted, has been sealed completely,” he added. Health officials said the doctor had recently visited a 100-bed quarantine centre set up at Sunder Deep college in Muradnagar. “There is a strong possibility he may have contracted the infection there,” Mishra said. According to him, the doctor had offered to get his swab samples tested four days ago as he felt he had started showing virus-like symptoms. “We not only collected his samples, but also those of 41 others, who included workers of the community centre. Only the doctor’s results were positive. All the others have tested negative,” Mishra said. “He was admitted to one of the quarantine centres and samples of his family members have been taken for testing,” he added. The second positive case is a 38-year-old man from Masuri, who had attended the religious congregation in Delhi last month. “This man had attended the Tablighi Jamaat meet in Delhi and was placed under quarantine. He had not tested positive initially. But a random test carried out a few days ago found his samples positive,” Mishra said. Of the total 27 positive cases that Ghaziabad has reported so far, three have recovered and were discharged from the hospital. “This apart, there are seven persons under quarantine who have tested negative in their first test report. If their second test reports also mention negative, they, too, will be sent back home,” Mishra said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ghaziabad/doctor-at-health-centre-has-covid-triggers-fresh-cluster-worry-in-ghaziabad/articleshow/75102361.cms||Abhijay Jha
April 12, 2020||India||Parents of Col drive 2,000 km for his funeral||NEW DELHI: In the middle of the nationwide lockdown, parents of a gallantry awardwinning officer completed an over 2,000-km-long journey by road from Amritsar to attend the funeral of their son in Bengaluru, according to a family member. Col Navjot Singh Bal, who had earned a Shaurya Chakra and ran marathons despite battling cancer, died on Thursday at a hospital in Bengaluru, officials said. His brother, Navtez Singh Bal, tweeted late on Saturday night, “Reached safely. Relief! Parents holding up fine. Respect! This drive would not have been possible without the help of all men and women in uniform — green, maroon and khakhi. Thank you and thank you again..”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/parents-of-col-drive-2000-km-for-his-funeral/articleshow/75102826.cms||---
April 12, 2020||India||Lockdown set to be extended with some measures to restart economy||NEW DELHI: Even as the 21-day lockdown looks set to be extended, the Centre in consultation with states is moving to restart economic activity in a graded manner in what marks a major change of approach in the fight against the Covid-19 pandemic. Spelling out the shift in a video conference with chief ministers on Saturday, Prime Minister Narendra Modi said while the earlier mantra was "jaan hai to jahan hai (if there is life, you can enjoy the world)", the way ahead would be guided by “jaan bhi, jahan bhi (life as well as our world)”. He also noted that CMs had suggested extending the lockdown by two weeks. Right at the outset of the interaction, the PM said the situation had "left us with no option but to extend the lockdown by at least two weeks". The discussions ended with a broad agreement on framing norms for greater public movement while continuing with a focused containment strategy for hotspots. While the lockdown is to be extended till month-end, there will be several measures for a calibrated exit, the guidelines for which are to be spelt out in the next two to three days. Businesses and markets may be allowed to resume in areas that have no infections or a low incidence of the disease. States are likely to designate districts, towns and cities as red, orange and green zones — there might be some zoning within cities and towns as well — to allow differentiated restoration of normal life, with conditions like use of masks and social distancing in public places. The Centre and states are moving to restart economic activity in a graded manner though the current lockdown looks set to be extended beyond April 14. However, areas containing Covid-19 hotspots won’t see any restoration of economic activity as yet. "There will be some experimentation to get the economy going after a three-week lockdown," an official source said. The government is examining a proposal to allow units that can accommodate employees on their campuses to function after authorities are satisfied about adherence to social distancing requirements. Harvesting operations have already been exempted and state governments are being nudged to go to villages to buy the harvested crop directly from farmers so that there is no crowding at mandis. In his interaction with chief ministers on Saturday, PM Narendra Modi emphasised the criticality of the coming 3-4 weeks for determining the impact of steps taken to contain the virus, a government release said. "While calling for the lockdown, I had said that life comes first and emphasised the importance of lockdown and social distancing for saving our citizens. A majority of people appreciated this and discharged their responsibility by staying at home and helped save lives. Now, for a brighter future and a prosperous and healthier India, we need to focus on both ‘jaan’ and ‘jahan’," he said at the meeting which was marked by a strong consensus favouring an aggressive response to the public health emergency. The PM had earlier this week told leaders of political parties that the removal of "stay-at-home" curbs would have to be staggered and, also, that there could not be a single exit plan for the entire county. Modi's discussions with CMs did not see any major divergence in approaches as most CMs agreed that the lockdown had been beneficial while raising demand for economic assistance. In fact, the CMs of Maharashtra, Karnataka and Delhi proactively supported an extended lockdown. Sources said there was no plan at the moment for the PM to make a televised address to the nation. The plans being considered include special norms for industrial townships which will have strict entry and exit norms and internal transport for workers. Such areas will be subject to sanitisation strategies such as use of disinfection tunnels at factories and plants and reworked labour shifts. In areas where markets can be reopened, there might be an alternate day timetable and larger mandis may see restrictions on the number of people who can be present at any point in time. Similarly, states may consider limited restoration of transport, at least within districts and cities, to begin with. Inter-district travel may not be allowed immediately, and inter-state travel and restoration of train services and airlines are not on the table. Central government offices are to begin functioning again from Monday and there are suggestions to restart public services by greater use of e-tokens and hour-wise appointments that will reduce crowding in banks and other such utilities like municipal and administrative offices. The guidelines for the farm sector are already in place and more instructions on supply chain movement can be expected. There will be relaxations for flood control activities too. During the interaction with chief ministers, the PM said the combined effort of the Centre and states had helped reduce the impact of Covid-19 but the situation required constant vigilant. According to a release, Modi assured that India had adequate supplies of essential medicines and said measures were being taken to ensure availability of protective gear and critical equipment. He warned against black marketing and hoarding. “Condemning and expressing distress at the instances of attacks on the doctors and medical staff, and at incidents of misbehaviour with students from north-east and Kashmir, the PM said such cases need to be dealt with firmly,” the release said. Watch Covid-19: Centre likely to extend lockdown by two weeks||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/lockdown-set-to-be-extended-with-some-measures-to-restart-economy/articleshow/75102562.cms||Rajeev Deshpande
April 12, 2020||India||Coronavirus: In a first, health ministry reports over 1,000 new cases in a day||NEW DELHI: The health ministry said on Saturday that India’s Covid-19 count had for the first time seen an increase of more than 1,000 cases in 24 hours. Many of these cases, however, had been accounted earlier in TOI’s round-ups of reports from states, which have been indicating an overall surge in the Covid-19 outbreak in the past three days. Delhi, meanwhile, recorded five deaths of coronavirus patients in the past 24 hours, the highest single-day toll in the capital so far, even as the number of new cases continued to remain high at 166. Delhi has so far recorded 1,069 cases, the second city after Mumbai to cross the four-figure mark. Meanwhile, ICMR said it had tested 1,79,374 samples for the Covid-19 infection from 1,64,773 individuals in the country till 9pm on Saturday, out of which 4.3% were positive. As per reports from states, Saturday saw 825 new Covid-19 cases in the country, the second-highest after Friday’s 863. Lav Aggarwal, joint secretary in the ministry, said 1,035 fresh Covid-19 cases and 40 deaths due to the disease were reported in the last 24 hours, taking the official number of cases to 7,447 and the number of deaths to 239 nationwide. Reports from states collated by TOI put the total number of cases in the country at 8426, and the death toll at 290, with 32 reported on Saturday. Maharashtra continues to report the maximum number of cases, 187 on Saturday, but the situation in Delhi seems to be deteriorating fast as well. Among the 166 new cases reported in the capital, 128 were related to the Nizamuddin cluster caused by the Tablighi Jamaat meetings in March. But in order to avoid profiling of positive cases, the government has put their data under a new category called ‘positive cases – under special operations’. Delhi has a capacity of 2,406 beds designated for Covid-19 patients in all its hospitals. Because of the sudden rise in cases in the state, only 32% of these are vacant, government data shows. “If the trend of sharp rise in cases in Delhi continues, we may soon reach a crisis situation. Government will have to designate more hospitals for Covid-19 treatment,” said a senior doctor. Maharashtra recorded 17 Covid-19 deaths on Saturday, taking the toll in the state to 127, by far the highest in the country. Rajasthan continued to reported rising numbers of new cases, which went up from 98 on Friday to a new high of 139. The state’s total count of Covid-19 cases is now 700. Tamil Nadu recorded 58 new cases on Covid-19, taking its tally to 969, the third highest in the country. Kerala, which recorded India’s first Covid-19 case on January 30 and remained among the most affected states for nearly two months, continued to show a sharp decline in fresh cases. On Saturday, the coastal state recorded only 10 new infections. “The fall in new cases and the meteoric rise in the number of people recuperating are reasons enough to rejoice. But such positive developments should never be reasons for the society to slip into complacency,” Kerala CM Pinarayi Vijayan said. Coronavirus cases continued to multiply in Gujarat. The state recorded 90 new cases on Saturday, taking the total to 243. The state also recorded three more deaths, all men from Ahmedabad, taking the state's death toll to 22. The cases in Gujarat were propelled primarily by the spike in Ahmedabad district. An analysis of positive cases show that it took Ahmedabad 19 days to records its first 100 cases between March 20 and April 9. In the next two days, April 10 and 11, the city added 101 more cases, taking its tally zooming to 243. Telangana saw two more deaths and 16 new coronavirus positive cases on Saturday taking the state’s tally of cases to 503. This included 393 active cases, 14 deaths and 96 people being discharged. Uttar Pradesh recorded 21 new cases. Three more persons tested positive for Covid-19 in Jharkhand on Saturday, taking the state’s total count to 17. Watch Covid-19 in India: Over 900 cases reported in last 24 hours, total count crosses 8000||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/in-a-first-health-ministry-reports-over-1000-new-cases-in-a-day/articleshow/75102602.cms||Durgesh Nandan Jha
April 12, 2020||India||Covid-19 lockdown likely to be extended till April 30 with tweaked restrictions||NEW DELHI: The nationwide coronavirus lockdown is set to be extended at least till April 30 after a broad "consensus" on it emerged on Saturday during a meeting of chief ministers with Prime Minister Narendra Modi, who stressed on "jaan bhi, jahaan bhi", indicating that restrictions may be tweaked as it was important to save livelihoods along with lives. According to sources, all central ministers have also been asked to resume work in ministries from Monday and put together plans for post-lockdown period to kick-start the economy. India has witnessed a sudden spike in the coronavirus infections with 1,035 fresh COVID-19 cases and 40 deaths due to the disease being reported in the last 24 hours across the country, which is under a 21-day nationwide lockdown since March 25. The current spell of the lockdown, billed as the world's largest shutdown to check the spread of the infection, ends on Tuesday even as the Union health ministry asserted that the tally of confirmed cases could have reached 8.2 lakh by April 15 in the absence of the lockdown and other containment measures. In the interaction held via video conferencing, most of the chief ministers suggested that the nationwide lockdown should be extended by two more weeks, an official statement said. Emphasising the criticality of coming 3-4 weeks for determining the impact of the steps taken till now to contain the virus, Modi told the chief ministers that "teamwork is the key to facing the challenge". It said Modi also underlined that the motto of the government earlier was 'jaan hai to jahaan hai' (the world exists if life exists) but now it is 'jaan bhi jahaan bhi' (lives as well as livelihoods). According to sources, the government is focusing on hotspots of COVID-19 to contain the spread of the pandemic and on efforts to kick-start the economy once the lockdown is lifted. Though the government did not directly announce its decision on the lockdown extension, Delhi Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal after the meeting tweeted, "PM has taken correct decision to extend lockdown. Today, India's position is better than many developed countries because we started lockdown early. If it is stopped now, all gains would be lost. To consolidate, it is imp to extend it." West Bengal Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee and Karnataka Chief Minister B S Yediyurappa also said the prime minister mentioned about extending the lockdown till April 30. There were also indications that the extension in lockdown may come with certain relaxations to boost economic activities with sources saying that there were various proposals being considered, including lesser restrictions in areas unaffected by the virus spread. The government officials said guidelines for the second phase of lockdown would be announced in next few days, even as Yediyurappa, after the interaction, said the extended lockdown period of two weeks would be different from the current 21-day spell. The official statement also referred to the Prime Minister's comments on the challenges on the economic front. Asserting that the crisis is an opportunity to make India self-reliant and turn the nation into an economic powerhouse, Modi talked about strengthening healthcare infrastructure and reaching out to patients through tele-medicine. "Talking about the Exit Plan from lockdown, the prime minister said that there seems to be a consensus amongst the states on extension of lockdown by another two weeks," it said. Meanwhile, the Chief Minister of Maharashtra, which has the highest number of COVID-19 cases in the country with over 1,600 and at least 110 deaths, announced the extension in the lockdown in the state till April 30, adding restrictions can be relaxed in certain areas. Punjab and Odisha have already announced extending the lockdown beyond April 14 . The meeting was called by Modi to discuss the situation arising due to the COVID-19 pandemic and to take feedback of chief ministers on whether the 21-day shutdown should be extended. During the interaction, Modi observed that the combined efforts of the Centre and the states have definitely helped reduce the impact of COVID-19 but since the situation is rapidly evolving, constant vigilance is paramount. Modi also categorically assured that India has adequate supplies of essential medicines, and said that measures are being taken to ensure availability of protective gear and critical equipment for all front-line workers. He also gave a stern message against black marketing and hoarding. Puducherry Chief Minister V Narayanasamy said the chief ministers of several states sought a financial package from the Centre as they were facing a fund crunch in the absence of any economic activity due to the ongoing lockdown. Punjab Chief Minister Amrinder Singh said he reiterated the need for health cover for all the employees as well as assistance to daily wagers while Chhattisgarh Chief Minister Bhupesh Baghel urged Modi to permit states to carry out economic activities within their borders. Modi was accompanied by some senior officials, including from the Union health ministry, during the meeting, which was also attended by chief ministers - Yogi Adityanath (Uttar Pradesh), Manohar Lal (Haryana), K Chandrashekhar Rao (Telangana) and Nitish kumar (Bihar). The Union Home Ministry has sought views of state governments on various aspects, including whether more categories of people and services need to be exempted. In the current lockdown only essential services are exempted. This is for the second time the prime minister interacted with the chief ministers via video link after the lockdown was imposed. The last such interaction was on April 2. Before the lockdown was announced on March 24, the prime minister had interacted with the chief ministers on March 20 to discuss ways and means to check the spread of the novel coronavirus.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/covid-19-lockdown-likely-to-be-extended-as-1000-plus-new-cases-push-india-tally-above-8000/articleshow/75099369.cms||---
April 12, 2020||India||10 Tablighis from abroad arrested in Tamil Nadu||NAGAPATTINAM: Ten foreign Tablighi Jamaat missionaries and their two guides were arrested on April 9 from a madrassa in Needur village in Tamil Nadu’s Nagapattinam district on charges of violating the Covid-19 lockdown norms and the Foreigners Act. The police, after conducting an initial investigation, told reporters, “They did not attend the TJ conference in Delhi’s Nizamuddin. We are now waiting for their swab sample test results.” They were produced before the Mayiladuthurai judicial magistrate at his house on the same day, who remanded them in 15 days of judicial custody.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/10-tablighis-from-abroad-arrested-in-tamil-nadu/articleshow/75102833.cms||D Vincent Arockiaraj
April 12, 2020||Visakhapatnam||Surveillance upped, zones to have entry-exit points||VISAKHAPATNAM: The Visakhapatnam district administration has upped surveillance at the seven containment zones, to which Payakaraopeta and Aratlakota villages were added on Saturday. Police have begun using drones to enforce the lockdown. This comes in the wake of 20 people testing positive for the virus in Visakhapatnam so far, of which four have recovered. Speaking to STOI, Visakhapatnam joint collect L Shiva Shankar said all red zones will have one designated entry and exit point. Residents will be allowed to move only if it is absolutely necessary and only between 6 am and 11 am. “We have arranged for 27 mobile rythu bazaars, including three for only groceries, in these red zones. Everything will be provided at the doorstep,” Shiva Shankar said. GVMC chief medical officer KSLG Sastry said disinfectant — sodium hypochlorite solution — is being sprayed in the red zones and its surroundings. “Red zone areas are being continuously disinfected since the first positive case at Allipuram was reported in March,” Sastry added. Tourism minister Muttamsetti Srinivasa Rao and in-charge minister K Kannababu along with officials visited the containment zones on Saturday afternoon. During their visit to Akkayyapalem, the tourism minister instructed officials to identify the pregnant women in the containment zones and provide them with proper medical facilities. Kannababu said volunteers would be available on phone for essential commodities. They also held a review meet with officials concerned. The in charge of the containment zones, sub-collector of Paderu said they have taken measures to supply essential commodities to the residents of Akkayyapalem by tying up with 39 shops online Meanwhile, the district administration is checking the records of the teacher in Payakaraopeta who tested positive for the virus. The patient has no history of foreign visit and no link with the Delhi gathering. Health staff have started door-to-door surveys in Satyavaram, Magavaram and Namavaram villages, besides Aratlakota and Payakaraopeta. Besides, officials have also started screening the 530 students of Vempadu ZP High School in which the teacher works. The patient’s family members have also been put in isolation.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/visakhapatnam/surveillance-upped-zones-to-have-entry-exit-points/articleshow/75101116.cms||Siva G
April 12, 2020||Navi-mumbai||Doctor turns ‘ambulance driver’, saves newborn’s life||NAVI MUMBAI: Going beyond his call of duty, a doctor in Alibaug rushed a newborn on his bike to a hospital with ICU facilities 1.5km away hours after his birth, helping save the baby’s life. The child’s aunt, a nurse, rode pillion with him in her arms (see pic). Thanks to Dr Rajendra Chandorkar’s alacrity, the baby has recovered, and is set to go home. The boy, weighing 2.9kg, was born at Dr Vaje Nursing Home around 7.30am on Tuesday. Soon, he began struggling to breathe, said doctors. Also, the infant had cyanosis, a condition in which the skin turns pale blue and grey. This spurred the need to keep him in intensive care for newborns, also known as NICU. Baby needed treatment for 12 hours in NICUThe 2.9kg boy was born at Dr Vaje Nursing Home at 7.30am on Tuesday but struggled to breathe, said doctors. The infant had cyanosis, a condition where the skin turns pale blue and grey, so he had to be kept in intensive care for newborns (NICU). His mother, a 32-year-old schoolteacher, was also critical, having delivered 10 days before the due date through C-section. She had diabetes and other medical complications. Dr Chandrakant Vaje from the nursing home called up Dr Chandorkar of Anandi Maternity & Child Hospital, 1.5km away, which had an NICU. Dr Chandorkar reached the nursing home on his bike but there was no ambulance. The baby’s aunt, Supriya Petkar (28), a nurse at a public health centre, requested the doctor to take them on his bike, with her holding the child. “The baby was taken to NICU, resuscitated, given fluids, antibiotics and oxygen for 12 hours,” said Dr Chandorkar.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/navi-mumbai/lockdown-heroes-doctor-rushes-newborn-on-bike-to-hospital-with-icu-saves-him/articleshow/75102830.cms||Umesh K Parida
April 12, 2020||Visakhapatnam||Telugu students on mission to counter misinformation||VISAKHAPATNAM: At a time when misinformation has proven to be as deadly as the virus, two Telugu youths in the United Kingdom are leveraging WhatsApp to counsel students and address issues and questions related to (Covid-19). Stephen Anurag Prathipathi (26) and Akhil Ennamsetty (24) hit upon the idea after the latter contracted and recovered from Covid-19. Stephen, from Visakhapatnam, is pursuing MSc in public policy and management from King’s College, London, and Ennamsetty, who is from Warangal, is doing his postgraduation in Human Rights Law from University of Edinburgh, Scotland. Stephen Anurag Prathipathi from VisakhapatnamWhile Stephen, who is still in London, interacts with Indian students there, Ennamsetty, who recently returned to Hyderabad, addresses concerns related to the virus and shares tips from his experience. They have identified key issues, relating to Tier-IV visas, food supplies, coursework, assignments and mental health, which most stranded Indian students are facing Speaking to STOI, Stephen said, “We are trying to help stranded Indian students get updates through the Indian High Commission in London. Besides, with the help of Harendra Jodha, an active member of the India-UK Society and Akshaya Patra, we are helping deliver food and other basic essentials.” Ennamsetty hopes to save lives by donating blood. He said, “I have already been contacted and I have consented for plasma donation. There are a lot of misconceptions about donating blood and stigma attached to cooperation with medical research, but I want to set an example.” Speaking about immediate goals, Stephen said, “Most students are concerned about India reopening the borders and chances of evacuation flights being operated. So they want us to collectively work with the Indian embassy. “Besides, we will soon launch an online portal where people can post questions and we will answer them.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/visakhapatnam/telugu-students-on-mission-to-counter-misinformation/articleshow/75101132.cms||Reshma Jain
April 12, 2020||Visakhapatnam||Cancer patients will need special care amid pandemic, say doctors||VISAKHAPATNAM: Cancer patients need special care during the coronavirus outbreak, say oncologists, as they are already immune-suppressed. Consequently, cancer treatment centres in the city are taking special measures. Discussing some of the measures being taken, Dr Muralikrishna Voonna, MD of Mahatma Gandhi Cancer Hospital and Research Institute said, “Any ultra-radical surgery that requires multiple blood transfusions should be delayed now if alternative form of treatment can be instituted interim. “Scheduling of patients should be such that overcrowding can be avoided in the radiation therapy department. Laparoscopic and robotic surgeries are to be discouraged,” he said. Dr Voonna added, “In medical oncology, immunosuppressive chemo can be changed to non-immuno suppressive treatment and chemo therapy should be changed to long duration intervals. Wherever possible, palliative chemo can be changed to oral chemo therapy and some adjuvant chemotherapies can be postponed for few more weeks.” Dr D Raghunadha Rao, former director of Homi Bhabha Cancer Hospital and Research Centre said that those on chemotherapy must take extra care with social isolation and personal protection. “The need of the hour is to reduce the number of radiation fractions, while increasing the dose per fraction. Also, oral drugs are preferred to intravenous drugs,” Dr Rao said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/visakhapatnam/cancer-patients-will-need-special-care-amid-pandemic-say-doctors/articleshow/75101153.cms||---
April 12, 2020||Chandigarh||Curfew on till nation in lockdown, says UT administrator VP Singh Badnore||CHANDIGARH: The curfew in Chandigarh will continue as long as the nation remains under lockdown, according to UT administrator V P Singh Badnore on Saturday. Badnore, who attended the video-conferencing with Prime Minister Narendra Modi, said, “It is heartening to know that Chandigarh has fared well in the first phase of curfew. The curfew in Chandigarh will continue as long as the lockdown in the country continues.” He directed UT adviser Manoj Parida to formulate a scheme for utilising the services of idle workers in the second phase of curfew, and said farmers going for harvesting and marketing of their produces should be facilitated. The administrator asked the education department to devise a mechanism for 40 book stores of Chandigarh to deliver books to homes of students during the curfew, a press statement from the administration said. Badnore directed the adviser to ensure that all students from north-east, Ladakh and Jammu and Kashmir are taken care of in the city. Badnore also launched a new mobile application developed by the IT department of Chandigarh to track quarantine patients. The development comes at a time when state governments through India have asked the central government to extend its lockdown beyond April 14 to stem the spread of coronavirus. Chandigarh’s Covid-19 tally stands at 19. The administration ordered curfew in the UT on March 23, a day before Prime Minister Narendra Modi ordered a nationwide lockdown. Punjab has already announced it was extending curfew restrictions in the state until May 1. Earlier, Chandigarh was considering a staggered opening. However, the authorities had made clear that the final call would be taken after consulting the Centre.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/curfew-on-till-nation-in-lockdown-says-ut-administrator-v-p-singh-badnore/articleshow/75102836.cms||Rajinder Nagarkoti
April 12, 2020||Visakhapatnam||Visakhapatnam: This family feeds over 100 people every day||VISAKHAPATNAM: With the nationwide lockdown putting the poor and daily wagers at risk of going without food, a former student activist and his family have taken up the responsibility of providing food to at least a 100 people every day. Samayam Hemanth Kumar, a former student of Andhra University and currently the state president of Andhra Pradesh Nirudyoga (Unemployed) Joint Action Committee, along with his mother and wife is providing food to a 100 people every day during the lockdown. Hemanth, who has done his masters in human resource management at AU, said, “We are cooking flavoured rice for around 100 people. My mother and my wife Rupa are cooking the food while I and a few of my friends are distributing it among poor families in the city.” The food is prepared at Hemanth’s home in Seetamadhara. The food gets prepared by 11am and they start distributing by noon. The team goes out to shop for vegetables every alternate day. “We prepare nearly 10kgs of rice every day. We mostly cook vegetable biriyani. Although, we have also made lemon rice on a few days,” said Samayam Nagalakshmi, Hemanth’s mother. Talking about what motivated them to take up this project, Tirupati Rao, a friend of Hemanth’s said, “Such disasters don’t happen every day. At this hour of crisis, it is important that we serve the nation and its people. I am happy that a group of students have also joined our endeavour.” Apart from students and AU alumni, a group of unemployed youth has also come forward to help distribute the food.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/visakhapatnam/this-family-feeds-over-100-people-every-day/articleshow/75101162.cms||Arpit Basu
April 12, 2020||Delhi||Delhi: Health workers thrown into coronavirus battle without enough cover||NEW DELHI: More than 35 healthcare workers, mostly nurses and some doctors, have tested positive for Covid-19 in Delhi. At least 300 others who came in contact with them are under quarantine. In Mumbai, 90 healthcare workers have similarly been infected. The story is the same in other states such as Rajasthan, where 22 healthcare workers have confirmed positive for Covid-19. In Madhya Pradesh, two doctors have died and a few others remain in quarantine after testing positive for the novel coronavirus. In addition to high infection risk, health workers deployed in Covid-19 facilities also suffer from physical and mental exhaustion, the torment of difficult triage decisions and the pain of losing patients and colleagues. It is possible to alleviate these pain, say experts, mainly by providing them protective gear, N95 masks at the least, and distancing them from their families. According to Dr S K Sarin, head of the task force appointed by Delhi government to prepare a strategy for Covid-19 management in the capital, most Covid-positive cases involving health workers came from non-Covid-19 hospitals. “This is due to the initial ignorance about precautions on the part of possibly both the patient and the doctor,” he said. “They probably did not realise that asymptomatic or mildly symptomatic patients can transmit the infection.” In his report, Sarin has advised, “Anyone entering the hospital, including doctors and nurses, should be screened for symptoms of Covid-19. If they have any symptoms, they should be immediately referred to a coronavirus facility within the hospital or outside.” Till about a week ago, most non-Covid-19 hospitals didn’t have such facility. He said medical staff should wear N95 mask at all times, while patients should be asked to wear surgical masks. “Workers running the flu clinic, collecting test samples and managing Covid-19 facilities must get fullbody protection and wear hazmat suits,” he recommended. Delhi State Cancer Institute (DSCI), where 22 healthcare workers have tested positive for Covid-19, recorded its first case on March 3, when a senior resident in the preventive oncology division tested positive. He contracted the infection from a relative. It is still unclear whether the senior resident infected the other 21. Three patients undergoing treatment for cancer were also found positive three days ago and one of them died on Friday. At Maharaja Agrasen Hospital in Punjabi Bagh and Sir Ganga Ram Hospital in Karol Bagh, health workers contracted the virus from asymptomatic patients admitted for other illnesses. “We have a screening system in place and anyone with fever is advised to report to a Covid-19 facility. But what can you do when the person has no Covid-19 symptoms at the time of admission but tests positive later?” sighed a doctor. Like Sarin, Dr K Srinath Reddy, president, Public Health Foundation of India, too stressed on personal protection equipment (PPE) kits for medical staff in high-risk areas. He also suggested deployment of younger doctors. “They tend to recover faster and without serious complications even if they get the disease compared with senior doctors,” Reddy explained. Leeladhar Ramchandani, secretary general of Delhi Nurses Federation, said that many hospitals had indeed provided PPE kits to the staff deployed in Covid-19 facilities, but hadn’t been trained on how to wear or remove them, thus predisposing them to infection. “We have written to the government to provide on-site accommodation and fooding to nurses in Covid-19 facilities so they can work without the risk of transmitting the virus to family members. There’ve been instances when a nurse’s child or elderly family members have been infected,” Ramchandani said. At Max Hospital in Saket, at least 150 staff members, including doctors and nurses, are under self-quarantine after coming in contact with two patients whohad been admitted to the hospital for heart procedures but later tested positive for Covid-19. Similar incidents also happened at Mumbai’s Wockhardt Hospitals and Delhi’s Sir Ganga Ram Hospital. A medicine specialist at a top private hospital expressed the anxieties of many health workers. “I haven’t been going to hospital for the past few days because there aren’t many patients. I am also scared of being infected because I have old parents at home,” he said. An article in the respected medical journal The Lancet recently said, “It is vital that governments see workers not simply as pawns to be deployed, but as human individuals. In the global response, the safety of health-care workers must be ensured. Adequate provision of PPE is just the first step; other practical measures must be considered, including cancelling non-essential events to prioritise resources; provision of food, rest, and family support; and psychological support.” Dr Namit Choksi, a Schwarzman Scholar from Tsinghua University, China, reported that patients with a history of travelling abroad or exposure contact with positive cases often hide their medical history for fear of being sent into quarantined or not being treated. “The government should take necessary steps and rack up supplies of PPE kits to make sure every frontline worker has access to them. In addition, lying about his or her medical history to a medical professional must be made a punishable offence,” demanded Choksi.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/delhi-health-workers-thrown-into-coronavirus-battle-without-enough-cover/articleshow/75102850.cms||Durgesh Nandan Jha
April 12, 2020||Visakhapatnam||Agency’s tribal leaders seek masks from govt||VISAKHAPATNAM: Tribal leaders have demanded that the government provide masks to tribals living in the ITDA (Integrated Tribal Development Agency) areas of the state. The tribals are worried that porous borders in north-coastal AP are sensitive zones and measures must be taken to ensure protection of the tribal populace. Speaking to TOI, G Rama Gopal, president of AP Indigenous and Tribal Peoples’ Association said, “The entire ITDA belt is extremely porous and exposed, despite the lockdown. The focus should be on preventive measures mainly because unlike plain areas, medical help may not be forthcoming and vast distances will have to be covered.” “This is why we demand that the government must provide residents with masks and other protective gear,” Gopal said while adding that the government should conduct more awareness programmes about the virus and its spread. He added that such awareness programmes should be accessible to the tribals. ITDA sources informed that the lockdown is being implemented strictly and that people are informed about the dangers of the virus. ITDA has already prepared quarantine centres; in fact, ITDA zones were among the first to set up quarantine centres, ITDA sources informed. DK Balaji, project officer of ITDA Paderu said, “We were the first to make the Agency areas a no-entry zone. Local quarantining was also done effectively and people were traced with the help of health workers and volunteers to ensure that they could be quarantined immediately.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/visakhapatnam/agencys-tribal-leaders-seek-masks-from-govt/articleshow/75101184.cms||Venkatesh Bayya
April 12, 2020||Chandigarh||Coronavirus outbreak: Two more from Jawaharpur positive, panch super spreader||MOHALI: Two more people from Jawaharpur village in Derabassi and one from Mundi Kharar tested positive for novel coronavirus on Saturday, taking the total count to 51. One of them is 38 years old and another 58 years old. Both are neighbours of the 42-year-old panch -the first from the village to test positive on April 4. These two, like the family of the panch, were active in organising community meals for the poor, said deputy commissioner Girish Dayalan said. The third patient is 74-year-old husband of the woman who had tested positive after her death. He is a retired ayurvedic doctor. The other three family members - son who is a lab technician, daughter and daughter-in-law -tested negative, said civil surgeon Dr Manjeet Singh. In Jawaharpur, the panch had direct contact with 205 people out of which 33 have tested positive. Jawaharpur has the highest count of Covid-19 patients at 34.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/coronavirus-outbreak-two-more-from-jawaharpur-positive-panch-super-spreader/articleshow/75102856.cms||Barinderjit Saluja
April 12, 2020||India||Lawyers in SC want vacation cancelled||NEW DELHI: The Supreme Court Bar Association has decided that its lawyers will be available for work during summer vacations and appealed to the Supreme Court judges to cancel vacations to hear cases during that one-and-half month period in order to make up the loss of working days due to lockdown. “SCBA resolves that all lawyers practicing in the SC will give up the summer vacation which is scheduled from May 16 till July 5, and make themselves available for work during that period. Accordingly, the EC resolves to appeal to the CJI and his companion Judges to declare cancellation of Summer Vacation,” the resolution, passed unanimously by its executive council, said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/lawyers-in-sc-want-vacation-cancelled/articleshow/75102859.cms||---
April 12, 2020||Mumbai||25-year-old man among dozen more Covid deaths in Mumbai; toll rises to 76||MUMBAI: The city recorded its youngest Covid-19 death when a 25-year-old man died in the BMC-run Rajawadi Hospital in Ghatkopar. He was brought to the hospital on April 7 with severe breathing difficulty. He had no co-morbidities but died within a few hours of being admitted. The city death toll rose to 76. BMC officials said three of the 12 deaths on Saturday’s list had occurred between April 5 and April 9. A 34-year-old woman who died in Sion hospital had diabetes and hypertension. She passed away two days after she was admitted on April 4. All new deaths occurred in BMC hospitals. “Ten cases had co-morbidities and agerelated factors,'' a BMC official said. The Saturday deaths included four women. Among the five healthcare workers to test positive on Saturday were a Thane gastroenterologist, three nurses — one each from Breach Candy, KEM and Bhabha — and a Jaslok Hospital attendant. Among three persons from Badlapur who tested positive were the wife and daughter of a policeman posted in the city. In Ambernath, two more tested positive. The BMC said it would start collecting samples at 17 parking lots even as the government decided to increase the number of tests done daily by “pooling” samples in batches instead of individual tests. Health minister Rajesh Tope said a few changes in the treatment protocol will have to be made. Hospitals would be segregated into three categories for asymptomatic patients (70%), patients with mild symptoms (25%) and those critical (5%). Tope said the Centre had permitted the use of tele-medicine and mobile hospitals for non-Covid patients. Paramedical staff who had volunteered to work in the current situation would be given training online. “The high death rate in the state is a cause of concern and the most cases are those with co-morbidities and from the high-risk age group. We are working with experts to see if changing treatment protocols helps,” Tope said. Patients discharged after a full recovery numbered 208. ( Inputs: Pradeep Gupta)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/25-year-old-man-among-dozen-more-covid-deaths-in-mumbai-toll-rises-to-76/articleshow/75102855.cms||---
April 12, 2020||Visakhapatnam||Disinfection tunnel comes up in city to battle virus spread||VISAKHAPATNAM: Visakhapatnam joint collector L Shiva Shankar inaugurated Scanitizer, a sanitisation tunnel to disinfect the people, on Saturday. The joint collector opened the tunnel at L Bullayya College on Saturday morning. Moray Smart Solution, a company dealing with fire safety and security equipment, and Watermax Technologies, a waste water management company, designed the tunnel in a collaborative effort. Sodium hypochlorite will be used as the disinfectant. Upon being asked if the disinfectant has any potential for harm, the joint collector said, “No. The concentration is highly reduced, it is only 0.25mg per litre.” Jagadeesh Kumar B, MD of Moray Smart Solution said, “With permission from the district administration, the tunnel will be set up at rythu bazaars, in crowded areas and at railway stations to help combat coronavirus.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/visakhapatnam/disinfection-tunnel-comes-up-in-city-to-battle-virus-spread/articleshow/75101192.cms||---
April 12, 2020||Faridabad||Not given PPE, allege doctors at Faridabad hospital||GURUGRAM: About 50 resident doctors at the ESIC Medical College and Hospital in Faridabad have declared a symbolic indefinite strike in protest against the “lack of personal protective equipment (PPE)”, including N95 masks, to deal with novel coronavirus cases. However, these doctors, wearing black bands, continue to provide services. ESIC is the Covid-19 hospital in the district. Nearly 150 of the hospital’s 550 beds have been placed in the isolation ward for coronavirus patients. “We are at the frontline of treatment. However, we have been told that only those who see Covid-19 positive cases will be given PPE kits and N95 masks. This attitude is wrong. All doctors should be given safety gear as no one knows which suspected patient can turn positive,” a resident doctor said, not wishing to be named. The junior doctors have also alleged that they are the only ones dealing with Covid-19 cases in the hospital as the seniors have refrained from such duties. These doctors claim they are on contract and don’t have health insurance, which is a big concern. “We do not have job security here as we are on contract. We have been threatened by the dean that we might lose our jobs if we don’t treat Covid-19 patients. We do not have health insurance and are being denied PPE,” another doctor said. “We are aware of the critical situation and therefore, we are still seeing patients at the hospital. However, with a number of senior doctors on leave, we are facing a crisis,” said another resident doctor. However, hospital dean Aseem Das refuted the junior doctors’ allegations. “We have sufficient protection gear for the doctors — 3,000 PPE kits and 7,000 N95 masks. We have only six cases of novel coronavirus so far. We are following a protocol here and only doctors dealing with these patients are given the safety gear. The other doctors are given three ply masks that will protect them from the virus.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/faridabad/not-given-ppe-n95-allege-junior-docs-at-faridabads-covid-hospital/articleshow/75102419.cms||Ipsita Pati
April 12, 2020||Kolkata||West Bengal ready to enforce a longer shutdown, but with a human face||KOLKATA: Chief minister Mamata Banerjee said on Saturday that she will go along with Prime Minister Narendra Modi over his proposal to extend the Covid-19 lockdown in the country for another two weeks till April 30, but emphasised that she would enforce the shutdown in Bengal with a human face to balance life and livelihood. “The PM, during the video-conference, said the lockdown will be extended till April 30. We have already said that we will support whatever decision the Centre takes in this regard. The PM also said the next two weeks are going to be very crucial and critical. I told the PM that there should korakori (strict enforcement), but no barabari (overzealousness),” the CM said at Nabanna. Mamata’s “humane lockdown” will be a mix of restrictions and relaxations, but different from curfew. Under the lockdown regulations in Bengal, people will have to stay home and maintain social-distancing while going to the market, medicine shop, grocery or ration shop to buy essentials. Schools and colleges, however, will remain shut till June 10. “There is no need to go to the market at a particular hour in the morning because they will remain open from 10 am to 6 pm,” the CM said. The state administration will use drones to check if people are crowding at markets. To ease supply of essentials, home delivery of goods will be allowed while flour mills, oil mills and bakeries will be allowed to resume operations, but in a sanitised manner, to ensure availability of commodities. There will also be a few taxis on the roads for people to avail in emergency. There will, however, be a total ban on crowding of streets and on gatherings of all sorts, including religious ones. “I will not be going to the Kali temple the night before Poila Boisakh (Bengali New Year day on April 15). This will be the first time in my life that I won’t be visiting the Kali temple on the day. I urge all of you to celebrate the Bengali New Year at home,” Banerjee said. The CM’s announcement came after a letter from the Union ministry of home affairs addressed to the state chief secretary pointed to “lax enforcement” of lockdown in certain areas. With an eye on the coming harvesting season in a state that contributes 17% to the country’s total rice produce, the CM gave relaxations for harvesting of boro and rabi crops. She also allowed tea gardens to resume operations with 25% of their labour force. Small-scale units and MSMEs will also be allowed to start operations if they have space to house the workers on their campus, Banerjee said. The government, however, would tighten containment measures in areas across the state where people have tested positive for Covid-19, the CM said. “We are into an elaborate microplanning to zoom into these areas. These areas can be a multi-storied building, a lane or bylane. I have spoken to Kolkata mayor Firhad Hakim. The KMC will sanitise the wards, one after another. We are not going to cordon off the entire area. There are reports indicating that large areas such as Burrabazar, Bagbazar, Parnashree, Bagri Market, the whole of Howrah will be cordoned off. These are all baseless. Markets will remain open but may be scattered to prevent overcrowding. We have asked for 50,000 testing kits from the Centre to ramp up random tests in these sensitive areas. How can we follow the revised ICMR guidelines if we don’t get the kits?” the CM said. Banerjee also seized the opportunity during the video-conference with the PM to demand a Rs 10-lakh crore financial package for states to help them tackle the Covid pandemic. “The Centre has released Rs 1.7 lakh crore for this purpose. The amount is less than even 1% of India’s GDP. Other Covid-hit countries like US has allocated 10% of its GDP, UK 15% and Japan 20% of its GDP to fight the virus,” she said. This apart, the CM wants the Centre to clear Rs 36,000 crore it owes to the state and grant a Rs 25,000 crore financial package for Bengal in view of its high debt-servicing component. Banerjee pointed out that the Centre is yet to keep its GST promise to states and release Rs 2,393 crore on account of GST from December to March.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/bengal-ready-to-enforce-a-longer-shutdown-but-with-a-human-face/articleshow/75102596.cms||---
April 12, 2020||Kolkata||‘No politics please’: CM rebuts MHA’s lockdown laxity charge||Kolkata: Chief minister Mamata Banerjee on Saturday urged Prime Minister Narendra Modi to “crosscheck facts” before blaming the Bengal government after the ministry of home affairs sent a stern missive to the state alleging “gross violation of lockdown measures” and warned of penal action against officers failing to enforce the lockdown under the Disaster Management Act, 2005. The MHA, in its letter to the chief secretary and dir-ector general of police, pointed to lockdown violations in several parts of the city: Rajabazar, Narkeldanga, Topsia, Metiabruz, Garden Reach, Ekbalpore and Maniktala. “Significantly, areas such as Narkeldanga are reportedly witnessing more Covid-19-like cases,” the letter states. The ministry also expressed its dismay over the opening of non-essential shops and the manner in which people were thronging vegetable, fish and meat shops in markets in the specified locations. “We are fighting a disease,” the CM rebutted. “Our aim is not to keep people hungry,” she said while urging people to maintain social distancing measures while shopping for essentials. Banerjee, however, did not go into a point-by-point exchange. “We are cooperating with the Centre. But some people are into mudslinging. This is not the time to do politics. Let us come together and fight the virus unite-dly,” she said, indicating that such provocations were coming from the BJP’s IT cell. The state government has set up a Restriction and Relaxation Task Force, under the chief secretary, to examine proposals to resume operations. Under Banerjee’s “humane lockdown” regime, relaxation has been given to shops selling staples, sweet shops and flower markets. Flour mills, oil mills and bakeries have also been allowed to resume operations, while home delivery is also on. The government has also opened tea gardens on the Centre’s directive. Police, however, sprang into action in “Covid-19-sensitive” areas on Saturday evening, increasing arrests of people loitering about. The MHA’s letter also referred to reports of police “allowing” religious congregations. “It has been reported that police have been allowing religious congregations. Free ration has been distributed not through the institutional delivery system, but by political leaders. This may have resulted in spread of Covid-19 infection,” the letter states. The chief minister urged the Union home minister to hold a meeting with security agencies in strictly manning the international borders Bengal shares with three countries. “We need strict manning of the international borders, because Bengal shares unfenced borders with neighbouring countries at many stretches. I have reports that some people sneaked into our territory a couple of days ago. Bengal shares borders with three countries. If Bengal becomes unsafe, it will affect other bordering states. Assam, Bihar, Jharkhand, Odisha and the entire Northeast can become vulnerable,” she said. She also raised the issue of a numbers mismatch between the Centre and the state over Covid-19-positive cases and deaths. “This is not fair. I said earlier that we are not announcing these numbers on our own. The government is announcing them after an audit performed by the medical experts’ committee, including the reason of death. There have been instances when patients having chronic heart and kidney ailments took admission in hospitals and were later tested Covid-19-positive. We sent the figures to the experts’ panel following their death to ascertain whether the deaths were due to Covid-19 or co-morbidities. I told the PM to crosscheck facts before heaping allegations. Fact is, most Covid-19 patients are responding to medicine,” the CM said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/no-politics-please-cm-rebuts-mhas-lockdown-laxity-charge/articleshow/75102621.cms||---
April 12, 2020||Ranchi||BGH contractual staff go on a strike over ‘discrimination’||Bokaro: Around 92 contractual health workers at Bokaro General Hospital (BGH) on Saturday went on a strike and alleged discrimination on the management’s part. The protesters said while the doctors and the permanent staff are being quarantined at hotels, the contractual medical staff are being kept along with suspected patients of Covid-19 at various isolation centres. They also said the management has provided them with poor quality PPEs, masks and sanitizers. Nand Kishore, a contractual health staff at BGH said, “Doctors and nurses are quarantined at posh hotels, but contractual health workers have been kept in a school along with suspected cases. We are also human beings and need equal safety.” Another contractual health staff, Reena Kumari said, “We are not working less than regular employees, but the hospital management is indifferent towards us. How can we work with zeal? We should be provided equal facilities like BGH nurses and regular staff.” BGH, which is the lone treatment centre for Covid-19 cases in the district, is currently treating five patients while a 75-year-old man died on Thursday, making it the first casualty in the country. The death sent the officials into a tizzy as the septuagenarian was being treated at the CCU as a normal patient. At least 40 medical staff, including doctors, nurses, health workers and contractual staff, who came in close contact with the deceased, have been quarantined. Bokaro Steel Limited’s chief of communication, Manikant Dhan, said, “The district administration officials have instructed us not to make any comments. They shall respond soon.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/bgh-contractual-staff-go-on-a-strike-over-discrimination/articleshow/75101302.cms||---
April 12, 2020||India||Mamata Banerjee for shutdown ‘with human face’||KOLKATA: Bengal chief minister Mamata Banerjee said on Saturday that she will go along with Prime Minister Narendra Modi over his proposal to extend the Covid-19 lockdown for another two weeks till April 30, but emphasised that she would enforce the shutdown in Bengal with a human face to balance life and livelihood. “The PM, during the video conference, said the lockdown will be extended till April 30. We have already said that we will support whatever decision the Centre takes in this regard. The PM also said the next two weeks are going to be very crucial and critical. I told the PM that there should be strict enforcement, but no overzealousness,” the CM said at the state secretariat Nabanna. Mamata’s “humane lockdown” will be a mix of restrictions and relaxations, but different from curfew. Under the lockdown regulations in Bengal, people will have to stay home and maintain social distancing while going to the market, medicine shop, grocery or ration shop to buy essentials. All schools, however, will remain closed till June 10. “There is no need to go to the market at a particular hour in the morning because they will remain open from 10 am to 6 pm,” the CM said. The state administration will use drones to check if people are crowding markets. To ease supply of essentials, home delivery of goods will be allowed while flour mills, oil mills and bakeries will be allowed to resume operations — they will have to follow strict sanitization rules — to ensure availability of commodities. There will also be a few taxis on the roads for people to avail in emergency. There will, however, be a total ban on crowding of streets and on gatherings of all sorts, including religious ones. “I will not be going to the Kali temple the night before Poila Boisakh (Bengali New Year day on April 15). This will be the first time in my life that I won’t be visiting the Kali temple on the day. I urge all of you to celebrate the Bengali New Year at home,” Mamata said. The CM’s announcement came after a letter from the Union ministry of home affairs addressed to the state chief secretary pointed to “lax enforcement” of lockdown in certain areas. With an eye on the coming harvesting season in a state that contributes 17% to the country’s total rice produce, the CM gave relaxations for harvesting of boro and rabi crops. She also allowed tea gardens to resume operations with 25% of their labour force. Small-scale units and MSMEs will also be allowed to start operations if they have space to house the workers on their campus, Mamata said. The government, however, will tighten containment measures in areas across the state where people have tested positive for Covid-19, the CM said. “We are into an elaborate micro-planning to zoom into these areas. These areas can be a multi-storied building, a lane or bylane. I have spoken to Kolkata mayor Firhad Hakim. The KMC will sanitise the wards, one after another. We are not going to cordon off the entire area. There are reports indicating that large areas such as Burrabazar, Bagbazar, Parnashree, BagriMarket, the whole of Howrah will be cordoned off. These are all baseless. Markets will remain open but may be scattered to prevent overcrowding. We have asked for 50,000 testing kits from the Centre to ramp up random tests in these sensitive areas. How can we follow the revised ICMR guidelines if we don’t get the kits?” the CM said. Mamata also seized the opportunity during the video-conference with the PM to demand a Rs 10-lakh crore financial package for states to help them tackle the Covid pandemic. “The Centre has released Rs 1.7 lakh crore for this purpose. The amount is less than even 1% of India’s GDP. Other Covid-hit countries like US have allocated 10% of its GDP, UK 15% and Japan 20% to fight the virus,” she mentioned. This apart, the CM wants the Centre to clear Rs 36,000 crore it owes to the state and grant a Rs 25,000 crore financial package for Bengal in view of its high debt-servicing component. Banerjee pointed out that the Centre is yet to keep its GST promise to states and release Rs 2,393 crore on account of GST from December to March.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/mamata-banerjee-for-shutdown-with-human-face/articleshow/75102875.cms||---
April 12, 2020||Ranchi||Class likely during summer vacations in state univs||Ranchi: Governor Droupadi Murmu on Saturday conducted a meeting with senior officials of the higher education department and vice chancellors of several universities through a video conference to discuss issues such as course completion, examinations, inter-university cooperation, classes during summer vacations and concession in fees. Principal secretary of the department of higher education, Shailesh Kumar Singh said, “The meeting was called to discuss the possible ways through which we can help students during the lockdown and make up for the loss of studies. The final decisions will be taken in due course of time.” The meeting was attended by the vice chancellors of Kolhan University, Ranchi University, Dr Shyama Prasad Mukherjee University and Vinoba Bhave University. After the meeting, Kolhan University VC Shukla Mohanty said, “We discussed issues that are affecting education during the lockdown. There were suggestions for online classes through video conferences and online assignments. We also discussed possibilities of online examinations.” Mohanty added, “There has been widespread economic losses among the deprived class due to the lockdown, hence, we are considering concessions on examination fees to help our students from rural areas.” The universities also agreed on inter-university exchange of study materials while the suggestion of cancelling summer vacations was also floated in the meeting. Dr Shyama Prasad Mukherjee University VC, S N Munda, said, “We have agreed to strengthen inter-university cooperation and planned to conduct classes during summer vacations to cope with the loss of classes during the lockdown.” Meanwhile, Murmu suggested universities to carry out social services through their NSS and NCC wings.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/class-likely-during-summer-vacations-in-state-univs/articleshow/75101335.cms||---
April 12, 2020||Chandigarh||Punjab: CM Amarinder Singh says India needs to isolate for two more weeks||CHANDIGARH: To contain the spread of Covid-19 pandemic, Punjab chief minister Amarinder Singh has recommended extension of the national lockdown by at least a fortnight. Participating in Prime Minister Narendra Modi's video conference with all the chief ministers, Captain Amarinder made a slew of suggestions for ramping up health and relief measures. Citing the trend of China and many European nations, he said it was necessary to continue the lockdown. "Despite all the hardship, the people of Punjab will continue to support government efforts to combat the pandemic," he added. Amarinder said his government had already decided to extend lockdown till May 1. All educational institutions will be remain closed till June 30 and the state board examinations have also been deferred till further orders. Section 144 remains in place, along with prohibition of public service vehicles till May 1. Captain sought a special risk insurance for all government employees, including police personnel, sanitation workers and all other employees, who are toiling hard in these testing times. He requested Rs 500 crore for quick upgradation of infrastructure of government hospitals in Punjab, "which is currently at Stage II of the pandemic and has a large NRI population". He also called for speedy approval, on priority basis, by the Centre to the state's proposal for Rs 550 crore project to set up an advanced centre for virology in Punjab. He urged the Government of India to defer recovery and waiver of interest and penalties on industrial loans for six months. As the industrial establishments are unable to look after their workers, he asked the Centre to come up with innovative solutions for relief to daily wage workers and industrial labour either through ESIC funds or under MNREGA. The CM also asked for a one-time increase in the state's borrowing limit from 3% to 4% of the state's GDP by amending the Fiscal Responsibility and Budget Amendment Act (FRBM Act), 2003. Referring to the harvesting and procurement operations set to begin in Punjab next week, the chief minister reiterated his demand for bonus to farmers to incentivise delayed procurement of wheat. He also called for quicker movement of foodgrains lying in FCI godowns in Punjab. Lauding the Centre for releasing substantial funds since the last meeting, Captain Amarinder stressed the need for early release of pending arrears of GST on priority to help the state.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/punjab-cm-amarinder-singh-says-india-needs-to-isolate-for-2-more-weeks/articleshow/75102896.cms||---
April 12, 2020||Mumbai||Vegetable, fruit shortage as shops shut, only 150 of 350 trucks come to Mumbai||MUMBAI: Many markets suddenly closed without alternate arrangements here on Saturday, leading to a shortage of vegetables and food supplies. The scarcity will extend into the following week, as the wholesale APMC market is closed, and police and BMC are discouraging vegetable vendors and grocers from opening shop. A senior state official said the government was persuading Navi Mumbai and Pune APMCs to resume by April 15, so the shortage of vegetables and fruits will continue till then. The state admitted that trucks with vegetables and food that come directly to Mumbai, bypassing APMC, reduced from around 350 to only 150 on Saturday. APMC sources claimed however that 385 vehicles loaded with vegetables reached the city. Besides, 112 truckloads of fruit left over from Friday were despatched. In a move that evoked angry reactions, civic wards issued circulars on Twitter, stopping vegetable and fruit stalls, except chemists and pharmacies, from operating till further notice. BMC chief Praveen Pardeshi on April 7 directeds discontinuation of vendors at 300-plus containment zones in Mumbai. Bandra’s Bazar Road stalls were instructed to operate on alternate days. On Saturday, K West ward (Vile Parle, Andheri and Jogeshwari) shut vegetable and fruit shops. Grocery stores can open once a week from 9am to 5pm on Monday. Assistant municipal commissioner Vishwas Mote said, “We decided this in consultation with police and senior civic officials as the lockdown was not being taken seriously and social distancing was not being maintained.” Angry residents questioned how they would buy and store milk, bread and vegetables for seven days, and how they would maintain social distancing norms when lakhs turn out on Monday. Police in K West forced provision stores to close, so the odd exception drew buyers in hordes. On Saturday evening, there were long queues at D’Mart (Versova). Employees with megaphones announced that each shopper could purchase a maximum of Rs2,000 worth of items. Jaishree Mistry of Prarthana Samaj said, “We had a full-fledged Kandawadi Bhaji gully in Sikka Nagar, but now with vendors in D ward closed till Tuesday, it is so inconvenient.” Youths from Girgaum were afraid to venture out, fearing police would hit them with sticks or make them do sit-ups. Grocery stores were locked and vegetable vendors absent from Kolshet Road in Thane too. In Chembur, storeowners shut shop due to fear of contracting the virus.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/vegetable-fruit-shortage-as-shops-shut-only-150-of-350-trucks-come-to-mumbai/articleshow/75102870.cms||---
April 12, 2020||Ranchi||Fin min seeks special financial package from Centre||Ranchi: State finance minister Rameshwar Oraon on Saturday asked the Centre to grant a special financial package for Jharkhand to help the state overcome the economic and monetary crisis arising out of the poor health of the state treasury and the slowdown triggered by the lockdown imposed to contain the spread of novel coronavirus. Talking to TOI, Oraon said, “Economic activities have come to a standstill. Our revenues have fallen by more than 60%-70% while expenditure has increased exponentially. The reasons for revenue shortage are a drastic fall in collections of VAT from excise and sale of petrol and diesel. In addition, the state is still waiting for its share of Goods and Services Tax (GST) and other assistance from the Centre.” Oraon added, “We are incurring high expenses, mainly for health and food, both of which are crucial during the lockdown and can’t be ignored. With limited resources, we will soon face problems to meet these expenses if we do not get help from the Centre. Jharkhand requires immediate special financial package.” While he did not quote the amount of central assistance required, Oraon said a formal proposal will be placed before chief minister Hemant Soren to take up the matter with the Centre. He said, “I will place the demand before the CM and our council of ministers in the upcoming cabinet meeting. Once decided, it will then be formally sent to the Government of India.” Oraon, who is also the state president of the Jharkhand Pradesh Congress Committee (JPCC), said the party is of the view for restricted extension of lockdown. He said, “The lockdown must continue in urban areas and places that are heavily populated, polluted or congested as the trend suggests that more coronavirus cases are being reported at such places. It should be relaxed in rural pockets to enable farmers to get back to work. In a nutshell, Congress believes that basic economic activities should resume to prevent the economy from crashing. How long can the government continue to feed everyone, especially in a poor state like Jharkhand where there is virtually no money in the hands of the government?”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/fin-min-seeks-special-financial-package-from-centre/articleshow/75101362.cms||ASRP Mukesh
April 12, 2020||Ranchi||PMCH, Dhanbad, starts Covid-19 tests||Sindri: The Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) on Saturday approved Patliputra Medical College and Hospital (PMCH) in Dhanbad as a testing centre for Covid-19. Jharkhand will now have three testing centres. Dhanbad deputy commissioner Amit Kumar said PMCH will begin testing samples from Saturday night. So far, samples collected were either sent to Rims in Ranchi or MGM in Jamshedpur. Kumar said, “Covid-19 test at PMCH will not only ease out the pressure on the two centres of the state, but it would also enable the state government to increase its daily testing capacity. The district administration has also decided to start a dialysis centre at the sadar hospital here to provide relief to kidney patients. The new dialysis centre has been set up as the BCCL central hospital has been turned into a Covid-19 hospital and its kidney patients are finding it difficult to get the dialysis done during the lockdown.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/pmch-dhanbad-starts-covid-19-tests/articleshow/75101374.cms||---
April 12, 2020||India||Give police protection to medical staff: MHA to states||NEW DELHI: The home ministry on Saturday directed all states and Union Territories to provide police protection to doctors and medical staff in hospitals and other places where patients diagnosed as Covid-19 positive are being treated as well as where suspected cases are quarantined. The advisory came on a day PM Modi, while interacting with CMs via video conference, expressed distress at instances of attacks against doctors, nurses and paramedics. It has also been communicated to provide necessary police security to doctors and medical staff who visit places to conduct screening of people to find out symptoms of the disease, the home ministry said in a release. Meanwhile, the National Security Act was slapped on four people, including a cleric, in Meerut for allegedly attacking a magistrate, cops and health officials who were sealing a lane — a Covid hotspot — adjoining a mosque in Jali Kothi area on Saturday. Meerut SSP Ajay Sahani said, “After six Jamaatis evacuated from a mosque tested positive, city magistrate accompanied by health officers and police rushed to Jali Kothi area to seal the lane where the mosque is situated. However, locals pelted stones at them.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/give-police-protection-to-medical-staff-mha-to-states/articleshow/75102899.cms||---
April 12, 2020||Chandigarh||Standing apart: Punjab's no to disinfectant tunnels||CHANDIGARH: Punjab has been decided not to recommend use of disinfectant spray - comprising of sodium hypochlorite - on any human being. The decision was taken in a meeting of the state health department on Saturday. The practice was initiated recently across the country with many district administrations setting up disinfectant tunnels to provide safe access to public facilities. In Chandigarh, a similar tunnel was set up to provide safe access to the wholesale vegetable and fruits market in Sector 26. "The concept came after we knew it was being practised in southern India. The idea was mooted by the MC commissioner," said UT adviser Manoj Parida. However, the World Health Organisation recommends use of this chemical solution only for inanimate objects. The chemical used in disinfectatnt tunnels is 1% sodium hypochlorite, which may cause irritation on skin or mucous membrane. The spray of this chemical in a mist form is not considered suitable for living beings and is commonly used to mop floors as a disinfectant. "I would not recommend even 1% of this chemical composition. If there is a person who goes through this spray in a tunnel and is exposed more than once, it might have some toxicity. It depends on the immunity and other conditions of the person," said Alok Dhawan, director, Indian institute of Toxicology Research, Lucknow. "In some places they are spraying ethanol. This can cause dehydration if the concentration is more. Im not aware of that. If a person who walks through the tunnel with hypochlorite spray many times a day and has low immunity, he can be vulnerable. Unless there is no data to support the efficacy, no such sprays should be done on humans," Dr Dhawan said. Even Tamil Nadu's director of the public health and preventive medicine issued directions in Chennai on Saturday not to install these disinfectant tunnels as "they will create a false sense of security and people may be diverted from hand wash to disinfection tunnel. In addition, the spraying of alcohol/chlorine/lysol on human being is not only harmful but also ineffective." The tunnel spray is for a few seconds. but doctors do not recommend any direct contact with the chemical. Prof Davinder Parsad, dermatologist at Chandigarh's PGIMER said, "The solution can cause irritant reaction in some and thus is not advisable."||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/standing-apart-punjabs-no-to-disinfectant-tunnels/articleshow/75102919.cms||Shimona Kanwar
April 12, 2020||Bengaluru||How a Karnataka IGP’s number became a migrant helpline||BENGALURU: One small act of appreciation has ended up making a Karnataka-cadre IPS officer a one-man helpline for migrant labourers from Bihar stranded anywhere in the country. Inspector general of police (administration) Seemanth Kumar Singh has so far helped hundreds of migrant workers, coordinating with his counterparts in other states to ensure the migrants get rations and medical help on time. The first of the SOS calls came soon after the lockdown was announced on March 24. Seemanth was baffled as Bihari workers in other states called him up and sought food packets and rations. Even as he helped them out while explaining he was just a police officer, hundreds of calls kept coming through. The source became evident soon. An acquaintance of Seemanth had called him up after the lockdown announcement, seeking food for 400 Bihari labourers stuck in Bengaluru. With the help of ADGP Dayanand B in the Criminal Investigation Department (CID), a team reached out to the stranded labourers and delivered food packets through police and an NGO. Impressed with and thankful for Seemanth’s prompt help, his acquaintance narrated the incident to a local newspaper which went on to publish an article celebrating the IGP’s enterprise. It also provided his mobile number, saying Bihari labourers in need of help anywhere in the country could call this number. Unknown to Seemanth, his number was shared across WhatsApp groups in Bihar, Jharkhand, Karnataka, Kerala and Tamil Nadu and soon transformed into a “helpline number” for migrant Bihari labourers. “When they call me, I cannot tell them to contact the official helpline number as they are already in distress,” Seemanth said. “I collect information and help them by sharing it with police, NGOs, BBMP and concerned authorities. On a daily basis, I get hundreds of phone calls, mainly asking for basic rations and food packets. Most of them do not know that the number belongs to an IPS officer; they assume it is a helpline number for migrant workers,” the officer said. Had this number for 20 yrs, won’t change now: OfficerOne family stranded in Kerala without food reached out to me. They were not aware of where they were so I asked them to send a photo from a nearby store. We tracked them with the address written on the board and my batchmate helped them with groceries and rations,” he said. While some requests he can help meet, the IGP says he gets demands far beyond his “jurisdiction”. “Some people demanded that special trains be run to take them back home and asked me to book tickets,” Seemanth laughed. Seemanth said he has had the number for 20 years and isn’t thinking of changing it now. “Though calls are increasing day by day, I will continue to help with whatever I can. I hope some day, my personal number will remain with me after the situation relaxes.” Of late, though, some other people are calling him too. “I am getting calls from individuals who are willing to sponsor food packets. I take down their details and pass it on to the local police or local authorities who collect donations to feed stranded workers,” he said. Safe to say, for now, the IGP is not putting anyone on hold.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/how-a-karnataka-igps-number-became-a-migrant-helpline/articleshow/75102913.cms||Kiran Parashar
April 12, 2020||India||India sends rapid response medical team to Kuwait||NEW DELHI: India is looking to step up engagement with West Asia on Covid-19, with the government on Saturday sending a rapid response team comprising doctors to Kuwait to help the local government in testing and treatment of coronavirus patients. The medical team was sent at the request of the Kuwaiti government and will remain there for two weeks. “The deputation of Indian medical experts follows the recent phone call between PM Modi and PM of Kuwait Sheikh Sabah Al Khaled Al Hamad Al Sabah, in which both leaders agreed for a concerted and coordinated effort against the global pandemic,” the government said. Subsequently, foreign minister S Jaishankar and his Kuwaiti counterpart held a telephone conversation to discuss the prevailing situation in Kuwait. “India and Kuwait share a strong partnership. India is reaching out to Kuwait to further complement its efforts to fight the menace effectively,” the government said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/india-sends-rapid-response-medical-team-to-kuwait/articleshow/75102925.cms||---
April 12, 2020||India||Tap Japanese companies, Deepak Parekh tells states||MUMBAI: Veteran banker Deepak Parekh has suggested that states should take steps to lure Japanese companies that are being pushed by their government with a $2.2billion incentive to relocate from China. The states could offer the Japanese companies land with permissions and access to utilities, he advised. “We should make it easy for the Japanese to come to India rather than them going to Malaysia, Vietnam or Thailand. States have to take the initiative and offer them 2000-5000 acres in some special zone where they do not have to look for land or building approvals,” said Parekh. Japan’s incentive to companies is a part of its stimulus package announced recently. The chairman of the country’s largest housing finance company HDFC also warned that the Covid-19 crisis could result in real estate prices correcting by as much as 20% as cash becomes king. In a webinar with businesses on Friday, under the aegis of Entrepreneurs Organisation, Parekh pointed out that central banks, the world over, are buying commercial paper and debt issued by private entities. He said the Reserve Bank of India is pushing money into banks that are reluctant to invest in the debt of private companies and when they do it is at very high spreads. “Liquidity is a big issue for state governments, corporates and non-banking finance companies. RBI has to give stand-by limits to non-banking finance companies in case of an emergency,” he added. While there have been repeated demands from several quarters that the central government should let go its fiscal deficit and print more money, Parekh highlighted the downside of this move on the country’s credit rating. He said that the US is raising 10-year money at 0.77%, while India with a BBB (lowest investment grade rating) is paying well over six per cent. A single notch downgrade could push the country’s rating into the junk investment category. According to Parekh, cash is no longer trash and is now king. “Leverage is a double-edged sword. In good times it amplifies profits but in bad times it can destroy you,” he cautioned. He also advised businesses not to worry about controlling stake but to raise equity by selling at prices that investors looked for. He said that burning cash would no longer be in vogue and investors would look for companies with tangible revenues and profitability. Another outcome of the crisis, according to Parekh, would be ‘deglobalization’. He pointed out that European countries have already made it mandatory for government approval for all acquisition as valuations have crashed and there is a fear of the Chinese takeover of European companies.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/tap-japanese-companies-deepak-parekh-tells-states/articleshow/75102931.cms||---
April 12, 2020||Chandigarh||Three shopkeepers, quack break norms, arrested in Chandigarh||CHANDIGARH: In the last 24 hours, the UT police has arrested three shopkeepers and a quack in the city for violating curfew orders. Acording to the police, most of the violations are taking place in Daddumajra, Hallomajra, Burail and other rural areas. Over the last few days, they have arrested five shopkeepers and two quacks for opening their shops and clinics without permission in different areas of the city. In view of the complaints regarding some shopkeepers and quacks violating curfew orders, local police stations have increased patrolling in their areas and checking marketplaces during night and early hours. On Friday, Maloya police arrested three shopkeepers dealing in non-essential items for opening their shops in Daddumajra. The accused have been identified as Vipin Kumar, a photo framer, Narinder Kumar, owner of an electronics shop, and Dharminder, who owns a book shop. Three separate cases under Section 188 of the IPC have been registered against them. Later, all the accused were released on bail. The same day, Maloya police also arrested a quack from Daddumajra area, where he was running his business without any licence or degree. On April 8, Manimajra and Sector 26 police had arrested a quack and two shopkeepers for opening their shops in Manimajra and Sector 7.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/three-shopkeepers-quack-break-norms-arrested-in-chandigarh/articleshow/75102945.cms||Pawan Tiwari
April 12, 2020||India||Doctor turns ‘ambulance driver’, saves newborn’s life||NAVI MUMBAI: A doctor went beyond his call of duty to save a newborn hours after his birth. Dr Rajendra Chandorkar, who works at a hospital in Alibaug, got onto his bike and rode the baby to the hospital which has an intensive care unit for newborns, about 1.5km away from the nursing home where he was born. The child’s aunt rode pillion, cradling him in her arms. The doctor’s alacrity paid off as the baby is now doing well and is set to go home soon. The boy, weighing 2.9kg, was born at Dr Vaje Nursing Home around 7.30am on Tuesday. Soon after, he had difficulty in breathing, said doctors. Also, the child had cyanosis — a condition in which the skin turns pale blue and grey. This spurred the need to keep him in intensive care for newborns, also known as NICU. The child’s mother was also in a critical condition. Dr Chandrakant Vaje from the nursing home called up Dr Rajendra Chandorkar of Anandi Maternity & Child Hospital, located 1.5km away, which has the NICU. Dr Chandorkar reached the nursing home on his bike. But the baby could not be transported to the hospital’s NICU as there was no ambulance or other vehicle. That’s when the baby’s aunt, Supriya Petkar (28), a nurse at a public health centre, asked the doctor if he would ride the newborn on his bike while she rode pillion, holding the child. In no time, the doctor, the nurse and the newborn reached the hospital. “The baby was wheeled into the NICU where he was given resuscitation, fluid, antibiotics and oxygen for 12 hours,” said Dr Chandorkar. The mother could not be transferred to the hospital due to her condition, said Dr Chandorkar, president of Indian Medical Association’s Alibaug unit. “Her medical history was initially of concern. But later, it was to ensure the baby’s survival.” On Friday, three days later, the newborn was moved back to the nursing home where the mother was. The newborn’s family is relieved that all has ended well.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/doctor-turns-ambulance-driver-saves-newborns-life/articleshow/75102943.cms||Umesh K Parida
April 12, 2020||India||Trai recommends making DTH set-top boxes interoperable||NEW DELHI: The Telecom Regulatory Authority of India recommended on Saturday that all DTH and cable set-top boxes (STBs) should support interoperability, and urged the information and broadcasting ministry to make it mandatory by introducing the requisite provisions. Interoperable set-top boxes will allow consumers to change their DTH operator without buying a new set-top box. At present, the STBs deployed by cable TV networks are non-interoperable — the same STB cannot be used interchangeably across different service providers. Trai also recommended the mandatory provisioning of USB portbased common interface for all digital television sets in India.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/trai-recommends-making-dth-set-top-boxes-interoperable/articleshow/75102954.cms||---
April 12, 2020||India||Pakistan shells forward posts and villages along LoC||NEW DELHI: Pakistani army on Saturday resorted to intense mortar shelling on forward posts and villages along the Line of Control (LoC) in Poonch district of J&K, officials said. The latest ceasefire violation by Pakistan in Kirni sector comes barely 12 hours of intense firing and shelling in nearby Balakote and Mendhar sectors, that left a residential house completely damaged, they said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/pakistan-shells-forward-posts-and-villages-along-loc/articleshow/75102956.cms||---
April 12, 2020||India||Two cars of Wadhawans registered ‘illegally’||NEW DELHI: Two of the five luxury cars used by scam-tainted DHFL promoters Kapil and Dheeraj Wadhawan and their families to dodge the ongoing lockdown and travel from Mumbai to Mahabaleshwar on March 25 were registered in Jharkhand in 2016 by furnishing a false address, transport officials here found out on Saturday. The enquiry into the registration status of the two cars was carried out a day after ED seized all five vehicles that ferried 23 members of the Wadhawan clan to Mahabaleshwar. The other three are registered in Maharashtra.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/two-cars-of-wadhawans-registered-illegally/articleshow/75102962.cms||---
April 12, 2020||Delhi||Delhi: Close shave for many after fire breaks out at an apartment in Nawada||NEW DELHI: Residents of an apartment in Nawada had a narrow escape as a fire broke out in the wee hours of Sunday as people were fast asleep. Fire tenders reached the spot 30 minutes after the the blaze erupted around 3.15am. The reason stated for fire at the ground floor parking was a short circuit in the electrical meter. Four two-wheelers and three bicycles were completely destroyed. Bindapur police have lodged a complaint.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/delhi-close-shave-for-many-after-fire-breaks-out-at-an-apartment-in-nawada/articleshow/75102902.cms||Sajjan Singh Thakur
April 12, 2020||India||‘Rapid tests will help in containment planning’||NEW DELHI: The Indian Council of Medical Research has said the rapid antibody-based blood tests for Covid-19 will help detect the growth rate of cases in hotspot areas which can be used by the government to devise a containment strategy. Besides, the test is also useful in ensuring whether a healthcare worker has developed immunity to the virus after he or she has acquired it once. The results come with a delay in antibody tests. However, such tests that help detect whether a person has been infected with coronavirus can help the government assess how many people have been exposed to the disease in hotspots and assess how successful the containment measures have been, ICMR head of epidemiology and communicable diseases Dr RR Gangakhedkar said. “This test is a first generation, meaning it is a new beginning. With time, this test will also be as successful as other such tests used for other similar diseases,” Dr Gangakhedkar said. ICMR approved the rapid antibody test last week in a bid to see whether the coronavirus is getting transmitted in hotspot areas. As per ICMR protocol, the test can be conducted in clusters (containment zone), in large migration gatherings and evacuees’ centres with large number of Covid-19 cases. However, Dr Gangakhedkar said the testing kits for these rapid diagnostic tests are yet to arrive. “The supplier has assured that they will be sent in 2-3 days,” he said. The tests form a key part of the government’s containment strategy while efforts are on to expand the size of samples to assess whether there is any community transmission. Till Saturday, 1,71,718 samples were tested by public and private labs through RT-PCR. On Friday, 16,564 tests were conducted through a network of government and private labs. The health ministry said the government is also ramping up healthcare facilities for treatment of Covid-19 patients. While 587 dedicated Covid-19 hospitals have been earmarked by the Centre and state governments, over one lakh isolation beds and 11,500 ICU beds have also been reserved for coronavirus patients across the country. “PPEs, ventilators and other critical medical supplies are being ensured by the centre to states. The containment action plan, contact tracing and other planning are being ensured,” health ministry joint secretary Lav Agarwal said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/rapid-tests-will-help-in-containment-planning/articleshow/75102974.cms||Sushmi Dey
April 12, 2020||Bengaluru||Karnataka: BJP MLA has birthday bash at government school, three aides booked||BENGALURU: Three supporters have been booked for violating Covid-19 lockdown guidelines and organising a birthday bash for MLA ‘Masale’ Jayaram at a government school in Idaguru village in Tumakuru on Friday. The BJP MLA from Turuvekere cut a cake, surrounded by dozens of people from his constituency. The CS Pura police filed a suo motu case on Saturday against three supporters; Jayaram has not been charged. The MLA’s phone was switched off and he did not respond to texts either. MLA gave Covid speech at b’day party Jayaram derives his sobriquet from a firm he owns which sells packaged masala powder. The MLA, who calls himself a farmer and industrialist, had declared assets of over Rs 33 crore in last elections. In video clips of the birthday bash, the MLA is seen cutting a chocolate cake, wearing white latex gloves, and handing out slices to kids and others. He is wearing a mask, drawn below his chin. He reportedly gave a speech on how to battle Covid-19. The MLA’s supporters served biryani to100-odd people assembled at the school. The event drew flak as social distancing was thrown to the wind. Congress urged CM BS Yediyuappa to take stern action against Jayaram. Watch Lockdown 21: Three booked for organising BJP MLA's birthday bash||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/bjp-mla-jayaram-has-birthday-bash-at-government-school-three-aides-booked/articleshow/75102982.cms||---
April 12, 2020||Bengaluru||Bengaluru: Drones keep watch in two sealed wards||BENGALURU: With drones hovering in the sky and a huge contingent of BBMP and police officials keeping vigil, Padarayanapura and Bapujinagar wards remained completely sealed on Saturday. Seven Covid-19 cases were reported in these wards over the past few days, prompting the authorities to seal the localities on Friday. Mohammed Razaq, a electrician and resident of Bapujinagar, said the sealing is causing inconvenience and he is unable to buy milk for his three-year-old daughter. “After a positive case was detected on my lane, everybody is worried. We want the government to supply free milk for a few days till things get better here,” Razaq told STOI. A BBMP official said the civic body has ensured doorto-door delivery of milk in these wards. With Saturday being the first full day of the tightened lockdown, there was no demand for groceries or other essentials from locals, the official added. “Bapujiangar has been divided into eight blocks and two autorickshaws carrying rations will go around these areas. Vegetable vendors will be given pushcarts and passes to go and sell vegetables,” said Veerabadra Swami, joint commissioner, BBMP south. At present, people have demanded close to 25,000 food kits, which are being arranged by the nearest Indira Canteen, he said. A similar action plan is being executed in Padarayanapura too. “We want to ensure that all inmates of every single house in the wards are thoroughly screened and all structures are sprayed with disinfectants. Given that the wards are a network of lanes and bylanes lined with one and two-floor buildings standing cheek by jowl on either side, the chances of the infection spreading are very high,” he added. Five of the seven patients stayed in one building in Padarayanapura, he said. While two Tablighi Jamaat delegates staying on the second floor tested positive first, three of their primary contacts on the ground floor tested positive later, the official said, explaining as to why they had to tighten the screws and ensure stringent social distancing. “It is still uncertain as to how many people might end up getting infected here but we are doing our best by monitoring their health condition,” said the official. “We don’t want people to come out. In case we notice any kind of movement of residents, we are warning them and seizing vehicles if they are driving,” a cop said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/bengaluru-drones-keep-watch-in-two-sealed-wards/articleshow/75102993.cms||Nithya Mandyam
April 12, 2020||India||From disinfectant drones to robotic nurses, Covid-busting tech is here||NEW DELHI: For the last four years, it was used for crop dusting. But now, it has a new name and purpose. Chennai-based startup Garuda Aerospace’s drone is spraying disinfectant all over locked down cities in its new avatar of Corona Killer-100. Garuda has deployed 300 drones across 26 Indian cities, including Varanasi, Raipur and many in Tamil Nadu, at the behest of state governments and municipal bodies that are looking for ways to disinfect their areas with as little human intervention as possible. “We spray in public areas, hospitals, bus stations — anywhere Covid-19 can spread,” says Agnishwar Jayaprakash, the founder and president of the startup. Commercial pilot volunteers are steering these drones. Across the country, startups are utilising the lockdown period to innovate and add to the state’s arsenal to fight the coronavirus pandemic. Their work has resulted in disinfectant-spraying drones, drones that make public announcements or shoo away crowds during a lockdown, disinfectant trucks, new kinds of sanitisers and even robotic dispensers. Truck with sanitising techTarun Bhalla, founder of an education and social robotics startup called Avishkaar, wanted to do something for the community as well keep himself occupied so he posted on social media that his firm would help build any technology required. New Delhi MP Meenakshi Lekhi saw it and reached out to ask if they could create an external sanitising machine for her constituency. “In the last 10 days, we have been able to create a sanitising machine that can be installed on any vehicle. We had to identify 10 or so vendors and convince them to sell us spare parts. We have even been sleeping in the office for the safety of our kids,” says Bhalla. A truck they put the machine on has been going around South Extension, Moti Nagar and Punjabi Bagh, resulting in more such requests from Delhi MLAs and MPs. They have also installed this system on an SUV for a private citizen and are collaborating with an NGO to create a sanitisation tunnel for a food distribution centre outside a Noida-based hospital — all free of cost. They have also made a face shield and are at present working on building an internal sanitisation robot that utilises Type-C UV technology. Since UV light is harmful to humans, the idea is the robot should be able to map the room and automatically disinfect at night when it is empty. “We know UV kills the SARS virus and other viruses in the coronavirus family, but the jury is still out if it can kill Covid-19. We have to find a way to test its efficacy,” he adds. Bot for covid wardKochi-based Asimov Robotics is also using UV technology for its robot, which is meant to tend to patients inside quarantine zones. The robot is autonomous, can carry 25kg, and moves at a speed of 1m/sec. It has retractable trays to carry food. “If it goes to the Covid ward and there are 10 beds, it goes from patient to patient to give food. The tray disinfects itself through detergent and UV technology between bed to bed,” says founder Jaikrishnan T, adding that while the affect of UV hasn’t been tested on Covid-19, he believes exposure for longer than 6 seconds should deactivate the virus. The robot also squirts hand sanitiser if both hands are put in front of it. The firm is doing test runs and has been in touch with hospitals that could use the robot. But there are some challenges. “To map the area the robot will be in, we will have to go inside the hospital. We’re trying to do it remotely, but it takes longer.” Fever-spotting droneMarut Drones was mostly working on mosquito eradication last year but started ideating on fighting Covid-19 in January. Founder Prem Kumar Vislawath says they have come up with five drones — one that sprays disinfectant, one that tracks movements and makes public announcements, a thermal analysis drone that can see if anyone has high temperature in a crowd, a medical delivery drone for supplies and a surveillance drone. At present, they have deployed 17 disinfection drones and six surveillance ones across eight districts in Telangana. They can also be used in a more targeted capacity — in the neighbourhood of a known patient, for instance. “We’re working with drone companies in different states and are sourcing 60 to 70 drones from them,” says Vislawath. In Bangalore, General Aeronautics is using two drones to disinfect at the municipal corporation’s behest. Having done 100 missions and covered 1,25,000 square metres in the last 10 days, they hope CSR funding can allow them to scale up.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/from-disinfectant-drones-to-robotic-nurses-covid-busting-tech-is-here/articleshow/75103006.cms||Ketaki Desai
April 12, 2020||Mysuru||Three Mandya youths who faked Covid-19 land in jail||MYSURU: Three youths from Mandya, who escaped from a checkpost by claiming they were Covid-19 patients and created panic in their village recently, are now cooling their heels in jail. On April 8, Mahesh, Abhi and Srinivas, all in their 20s, were travelling in an autorickshaw when police personnel stopped them at a checkpost near Jockey Factory in Tendekere at 10.45pm. The youths got down from the vehicle and threatened to spread the disease if police tried to arrest them. One of them even showed quarantine seal on his hand. When cops were puzzled, the trio sped away. Police alerted KR Pet taluk tahsildar M Shivamurthy and they traced the youths to Bhallekere village in Bhukanakere hobli, 8km from KR Pet town. During interrogation, they confessed to have lied to police at the checkpost. Mahesh, an auto driver in Bengaluru, was stamped because he had returned to his village from an infected area.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mysuru/three-mandya-youths-who-faked-covid-19-land-in-jail/articleshow/75103008.cms||Lakshmikantha BK
April 12, 2020||Chandigarh||Haryana to reopen industries in phases, says CM Manohar Lal Khattar||CHANDIGARH: With India appearing set to continue the 21-day lockdown, Haryana chief minister Manohar Lal Khattar on Saturday outlined a plan for phased implementation of reopening of industries during the lockdown.  Addressing the people during his 'Haryana Aaj' programme, Khattar said the state would be divided into three zones - red, orange and green -to combat the pandemic. The red zones would be the hotspots, Gurgaon, Faridabad, Nuh and Palwal. The orange zone covered the vulnerable category - areas with less number of corona patients, and more under surveillance and observation. The third category or green zone would include areas without any cases.  Giving details of the reopening process, he said the micro, small and medium enterprises that follow social distancing norms, as well as arrange workers' food and lodging in their premises will be allowed to run their factories.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/haryana-to-reopen-industries-in-phases-says-cm-manohar-lal-khattar/articleshow/75103013.cms||---
April 12, 2020||India||Ordinance likely to deter insolvency cases for 6 months||NEW DELHI: The government is set to move an Ordinance to suspend fresh insolvency action against companies for six months by lenders or other creditors due to the Coronavirus pandemic. The Centre is looking at amendments to sections 7, 9 and 10 of the Insolvency and Bankruptcy Code (IBC) through the Ordinance at a time when a large number of companies have seen their revenues collapse during the last month or so, with forecasts suggesting that demand for goods will remain weak due to Covid-19. Besides, there has been a spurt in cases where companies have resorted to the force majeure clause to hold back payments – from dues to vendors to mall rentals. Although the Reserve Bank of India has allowed lenders to provide a three-month loan moratorium for a majority of borrowers, banks fear a spike in defaults and loan repayment problems in the coming months as the impact of the pandemic-induced distress is going to linger for a while. While announcing relief measures last month, finance minister Nirmala Sitharaman had indicated that the government will review the situation and consider suspending the three provisions of IBC. The move to amend the law has been initiated sooner than expected. Sitharaman has already announced relief for micro-small and medium enterprises under IBC and raised the default threshold from Rs 1 lakh to Rs 1 crore for triggering insolvency proceedings. The fresh moves will mean that financial creditors, including home buyers in residential real estate projects, cannot initiate action insolvency action, for six months under section 7 of IBC. Similarly, section 9 of the law empowers operational creditors such as vendors to seek action. Section 10 allows a defaulting company to approach the National Company Law Tribunal (NCLT) to declare it insolvent, providing protection from creditors. “The centre of gravity will shift from NCLT based resolution to informal restructuring under RBI sponsored scheme, which too would need an urgent tweak. With the streams of global distressed asset investors and resolution applicants likely drying, and with existing promoters disqualified to bid in view of Section 29A, the banks are likely to prefer resolution outside of NCLT. The pending cases will also see a spike in withdrawal as banks opt to settle cases due to enhanced uncertainties under IBC process,” said Sumant Batra, managing partner of law firm Kesar Dass B & Associates.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/ordinance-likely-to-deter-insolvency-cases-for-6-months/articleshow/75103017.cms||Sidhartha
April 12, 2020||India||Subscribers of small savings get time till June 30||NEW DELHI: The government on Saturday allowed subscribers of small savings schemes such as Public Provident Fund and Sukanya Samriddhi Yojana to deposit money into their accounts up to June 30, in case they could not do so during the 2019-20 financial year. In addition, PPF accounts, which matured on March 31, including the one-year window for extension, can now be extended up to June 30.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/subscribers-of-small-savings-get-time-till-june-30/articleshow/75103018.cms||---
April 12, 2020||India||Government exempts marine fishing industry from restrictions||NEW DELHI: The Centre has exempted marine fishing operations, aquaculture industry, movement of fish/shrimp and fish products and workers for all these activities from the lockdown restrictions. The move will allow the enlisted fishing activities to be carried out during the lockdown period in all coastal states under a regulated provision of permits/passes, issued by district authorities, where workers will have to take all precautionary measures. In its fifth addendum to its lockdown guidelines, the home ministry on Friday put these activities under the exempted categories along with various other related works including operation of processing, packaging, cold chain, sale & marketing, hatcheries, feed plants and commercial aquaria in the marine fisheries sector. The move came in the backdrop of demands from the sector as lakhs of fishermen have been out of work ever since the lockdown was imposed to fight the spread of Covid-19. In his order, the Union home secretary Ajay Bhalla asked chief secretaries of states to allow these exemptions while adhering to social distancing and other precautionary measures.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/government-exempts-marine-fishing-industry-from-restrictions/articleshow/75103025.cms||---
April 12, 2020||India||‘Ensure non-stop DTH services’||NEW DELHI: The I&B ministry on Saturday asked television broadcasters and DTH operators to cooperate with distributors across value chains to ensure uninterrupted supply of DTH and cable TV services in the interest of viewers. “All stakeholders are advised to continue to provide uninterrupted services to their subscribers and cooperate with other players within distribution chain in viewers’ interest,” a ministry notification said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/ensure-non-stop-dth-services/articleshow/75103037.cms||Swati Mathur
April 12, 2020||Hyderabad||#CoronaImpact: Simple brunch, virtual mass, indoor egg hunt: Easter like never before||Easter is finally here, and while the mood across the globe is solemn due to the Covid-19 pandemic, celebrations are underway, albeit a little differently. Church services have gone virtual, Easter Egg Hunts moved indoors and the brunches aren’t the big fat family affairs they used to be. There’s no denying celebrations are low-key, but the Easter spirit is alive and kicking.  Karen Campos Bhatia, a city-based nutritionist, has decided to cook a simple meal at home this year. “It feels wrong to have a lavish feast at a time like this. Easter meal at my home usually comprises glazed ham, roasted chicken, devilled eggs, potato salad, prawn cocktail and Goan-style fish curry with rice. But due to the lockdown, this year we will be having a simple brunch — eggs Benedict with some bacon and hash browns. I am also planning a small Easter egg hunt for the kids so they have something to look forward to,” says Karen.  Bakhita Francis, youth head, YWCA (Young Women’s Christian Association) Hyderabad, says she’s going to miss attending the midnight vigil and morning mass with her extended family, but is hoping her Easter brunch will make up for it. “I will be cooking a few nice dishes apart from biryani and pork roast, which are the traditional dishes at our home. For dessert, we have chocolate Easter eggs and a special cake called Simnel, decorated with 12 balls of marzipan to represent the 12 apostles in the Bible. Fortunately, we were able to stock up well in advance and I can’t wait to relish the meal,” she says, excitedly.  Rachel Gideons, a Delhi-based brand strategist, will attend her first virtual mass. “We usually attend the morning mass as a family every Easter, but this time, our Minister is conducting a live session. So it’s slightly unusual. Also, chicken is one of the main ingredients for our Easter feast but since it’s not so easily available this time, we decided to make mashed potatoes with stir fried vegetables and rice.”  Those staying away from their families too are counting on the virtual platforms. Sherly Thomas, a homemaker from Bengaluru is hoping to spend the day talking to her daughter, who is stuck in Mumbai due to the lockdown. “I will be teaching her how to make appams, our traditional Easter dish, on video-call. We may not be together, but I want to make sure our traditions will continue,” she says. - Ramya.Palisetty@timesgroup.com||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/coronaimpact-simple-brunch-virtual-mass-indoor-egg-hunt-easter-like-never-before/articleshow/75102039.cms||---
April 12, 2020||Noida||Landlords who evict doctors to face National Security Act||NOIDA: The stringent National Security Act (NSA) will be slapped on house owners exerting pressure on doctors and healthcare workers to vacate their rented premises over coronavirus scare, police said on Saturday. The move comes in the wake of several reports of medicos being ostracised in Delhi and Rajasthan. NSA allows preventive detention for months, if authorities are satisfied that a person is a threat to national security or law and order. Noida’s additional DCP (law and order) Ashutosh Dwivedi said the decision to invoke NSA against erring landlords in Gautam Budh Nagar has been taken as a preventive measure, despite the fact that there has not been a single such complaint in the district so far. “Doctors and healthcare workers are at the forefront of the fight against coronavirus. So, any attempt to evict them from their houses by their landlords or housing society managers will adversely affect the delivery of essential services provided by the medical community to the society. Apart from NSA, violators will be booked under the National Disaster Act and Epidemic Act,” he said. Police issued the directions to the house owners, exercising their powers under Section 144 of the CrPC. “The move will ensure that delivery of essential services do not get hampered in the Gautam Budh Nagar. These orders will remain effective till 30 April,” the additional DCP said. Meanwhile, police are also urging house owners not to take rent from tenants who have not got their salaries due to the Covid-19 lockdown. Rajnish Kumar, assistant CP (Zone 1), said that a woman working with a private company had recently complained about her inability to pay rent as their March salary was delayed. “House owners are requested to give extension for rent payment till the lockdown is in place,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/noida/landlords-who-evict-doctors-to-face-national-security-act/articleshow/75102478.cms||Abhishek Awasthi
April 12, 2020||Noida||Uttar Pradesh: Three injured in brawl over cricket in lockdown, four held||GREATER NOIDA: Four persons were arrested while three, including the village chairperson and her husband, were injured in a scuffle over playing cricket despite the lockdown in Jarcha’s Cholas village. Police said on Friday evening, the village chairperson’s husband, Bahadur Ali, objected to his nephews and other children playing cricket and then called the police. Rajesh Kumar Singh, DCP (Zone 3), told TOI a police team was sent after the complaint. “His nephews called their fathers. They started heckling Bahadur Ali. The chairperson also intervened and suffered minor injuries,” Singh added. Police filed an FIR against the chairperson’s brothers and their sons and arrested them.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/noida/3-injured-in-brawl-over-cricket-in-lockdown-4-held/articleshow/75102491.cms||Abhishek Awasthi
April 12, 2020||Noida||Noida: Four Covid-19 cases with no known source leave doctors guessing||NOIDA: Health department officials are worried about four patients in the district whose source of infection is still unknown. Their primary and secondary contacts have been quarantined, but the lack of source has prompted officials to raise questions on the possibility of community spreading in the city. A 31-year-old shop owner from Ghodi Bacheda village, an 80-year-old woman from a highrise in Noida Extension, a 50-year-old man from Sector 93A and a 67-year-old resident of Sector 50 have tested positive, but they have no recent travel history or any contacts who had gone to a foreign country in the past few weeks. Officials said these four patients had travelled to Delhi and might have come in contact with a resident who later tested positive. “We are trying to find the source of their infection. For now, we have put them in the ‘Delhi travellers’ category. For instance, the shop owner from Ghodi Bacheda would regularly visit wholesale markets in Delhi and may have come in contact with an infected person there. At this point, we can’t talk about community spreading since there are only a few cases with an unknown source,” said Dr Devender Varshney from the health department. GB Nagar, which had sealed 22 hotspots initially, has identified three more after four new cases were reported from these areas in the past two days. The three new areas that have been sealed are Sector 50 and 93A in Noida and Silver City society in Pi 2, Greater Noida. District magistrate Suhas LY said, “All these areas will be sealed till April 14.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/noida/4-cases-with-no-known-source-leave-doctors-guessing/articleshow/75102420.cms||---
April 12, 2020||Noida||National Institute of Biologicals to become third test centre in Noida||NOIDA: The National Institute of Biologicals (NIB), Sector 62, has been added to the list of new testing centres in the district after the Government Institute of Medical Sciences (GIMS), Greater Noida, and Child PGI in Gautam Budh Nagar. GIMS and Child PGI are likely to start functioning from early next week. The number of surveillance teams has been increased to 407 from 300, district magistrate Suhas LY said on Saturday. “As of now, there are 64 positive cases from GB Nagar. While 12 people have been discharged, 52 people are in the active category. The aim is to reduce the number with adequate treatment. Two tests are conducted in a span of 24 hours each and if both reports are negative, a person is considered fit to be discharged from a hospital. But sometimes, the results take time to come in. Hence, we are providing facilities at local levels to fast track the process,” the DM said. Currently, all samples are being sent to Jawaharlal Nehru Medical College, Aligarh, and the National Centre for Disease Control (NCDC), Delhi, for testing. Brigadier (retd) Dr RK Gupta, director, GIMS, said: “We will have a team of 12 doctors and technicians who will conduct Covid-19 tests. We are aiming to conduct 100 tests per day.” So far, the surveillance teams have visited 1.75 lakh houses, contacted and screened 5.62 lakh people and identified 516 people with travel history. “Since immediate focus is on containment, surveillance is the most important aspect. Teams are now being assisted by medical interns and the focus is on tracking, contact tracing, containing and testing secondary contacts. These are our corona warriors, including all doctors and nurses and other officials and police officers, as they are our frontline workers,” said the DM.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/noida/national-institute-of-biologicals-to-become-3rd-test-centre-in-noida/articleshow/75102437.cms||Meenakshi Sinha
April 12, 2020||Kolkata||Kolkata: Truck on lockdown duty hits car, 2 killed||KOLKATA: In the first major road accident since the start of the lockdown in the city, two persons were killed when a food truck rammed a car carrying an elderly patient on New Town Main Arterial Road on Saturday morning, killing the patient at the spot. Driver of the car succumbed to his injuries later in the day. Three other persons are still critical. Police said with roads empty, the truck delivering groceries and vegetables to a government retail unit was speeding along the road and crashed into the Maruti Omni when the car came on the carriageway from an arterial road beside Axis Mall. The accident left both the cars damaged and lying on their side. Police said the truck had violated a traffic signal. In the impact, the patient from Baduria, Zillur Rahman (50), who was suffering from chest pain, suffered severe injuries on his head and limbs and on being taken to Bidhannagar Sub-divisional Hospital, he was declared dead on arrival. Four others in the car - Ajijul Haq (35), Raqib Mondal (25), Jalauddin Biswas (28) and Abdul Majid (55) - were also taken to the hospital from where three were shifted to other government hospitals in the city, while Majid was kept under observation at the Bidhannagar hospital. Mondal, who was the car driver, later died at NRS Hospital, police said. The two other passengers - Haq and Biswas - were admitted to RG Kar Hospital and are still critical, said a senior officer of the traffic department of Bidhannagar City Police. Police said the accident happened around 6.15am, when the city-bound food truck skipped a traffic signal and collided with the car. The private car carrying the patient and his relatives from Baduria in North 24 Parganas were on its way to SSKM Hospital. The car had a print-out stuck on its back saying "patient carrying vehicle". Cops probing into the accident said the driver of the food truck fled the spot after the accident as police started a case under IPC sections 304A (death due to negligence), 279 (rash driving), 338(Causing grievous hurt by act endangering life or personal safety of others) and sections under Motor Vehicles Act for violation of traffic signal. "It seems the driver of the truck is also injured as the vehicle was in a bad shape. We have got some leads and are in the process of arresting him as early as possible," said a senior officer of Bidhannagar Commisisonerate.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/kolkata-truck-on-lockdown-duty-hits-car-2-killed/articleshow/75103045.cms||Tamaghna Banerjee
April 12, 2020||Ghaziabad||In Ghaziabad, social distance goes for a toss as lines get long||GHAZIABAD: On the third day of complete shutdown, residents of several societies are still to come to terms with the suspension of facilities. In many areas, residents complained of erratic supply of essentials and in places where trucks did turn up, social distancing went for a toss as people queued up for groceries and vegetables. “The delivery of essentials has marginally improved in our society in comparison to the previous day. But there are no social distancing norms being followed. This will defeat the purpose of sealing,” said Ajay Singh, a resident of Oxy Homez. “The RWA, too, is creating a hindrance in the supply system,” he added. Md Shoaib Raza, a resident of Pasonda village, said that on Friday, the phone number of the vendor issued by the administration was not reachable in the morning. After around 1pm, the vendor was not taking calls, he alleged. “For the past two days, we have been living on just potatoes. Even supply of milk has been affected,” he added. But there are a few societies where deliveries are being conducted without a fuss. Girnar society in Kaushambi, for instance. “Residents here queued up and kept adequate distance among themselves,” said Vinay Mittal, a resident.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ghaziabad/in-ghaziabad-social-distance-goes-for-a-toss-as-lines-get-long/articleshow/75102382.cms||---
April 12, 2020||Mumbai||Mumbai: Covid-19 samples to be collected at parking lots from Sunday||MUMBAI: BMC plans sample collection for suspected Covid-19 patients at public parking lots (PPLs) in the city from Sunday. The PPLs are in areas like Byculla, Sewri, Parel, Dadar, Mulund, Borivli, Kanjurmarg and Vikhroli. Laboratories like Thyrocare Technologies, SRL Ltd, InfeXn Laboratories and Metropolis Healthcare Ltd will undertake the drive. The labs will have to submit daily reports to the medical health officer and ward concerned, and approach the ward officer for disposal of biomedical waste. A BMC official said each of the labs would test around 200 suspected patients, so at all the 17 PPLs approximately 3,000 tests can be conducted. “Ward officers must bring residents from their wards, who are in home or institutional quarantine, and get them tested at the facilities. The charge for the test will be Rs3,500 if the kit is not provided by BMC. For kits provided by BMC, the charge will be Rs1,500,” said a civic official. The wards also need to have a car ready for the purpose. “Sample collection can be discreetly done and the patient need not come out of the car. This can eliminate chances of cross-infection,” added the official.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/mumbai-covid-19-samples-to-be-collected-at-parking-lots-from-sunday/articleshow/75103062.cms||Richa Pinto
April 12, 2020||Navi-mumbai||Navi Mumbai: Neta throws birthday party, booked with 10 guests||NAVI MUMBAI: A corporator of Panvel City Municipal Corporation has been booked, along with 10 others, for allegedly hosting a birthday party on Friday. Ajay Bahira from Bharatiya Janata Party turned 42 on April 10. The party, which saw a gathering of 10 guests from Takka village, included his family members, friends and a few local supporters. Also, liquor bottles were seized from his residence, the police said. All 11 people at the party — including the corporator and his younger brother Shriyesh — were detained by the police around 11pm and later released. The police control room had been alerted about the celebration. A criminal offence has been filed, said senior inspector of Panvel city police station, Ajaykumar Landge. The coroporator told TOI that his brother had organised the celebrations at home. “My family members and friends were present,” he said. The accused have been charged under various acts for negligence in spreading infection of disease dangerous to life, possessing liquor without permission and refusing to comply with directions given by government. Terming the birthday celebration as a “serious violation of an order”, collector of Raigad district, Nidhi Chaudhary, said, “Elected representatives should follow and inspire others to follow orders.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/navi-mumbai/navi-mumbai-neta-throws-birthday-party-booked-with-10-guests/articleshow/75103075.cms||Umesh K Parida
April 12, 2020||World||NYC schools to remain closed till September||NEW YORK: Public schools in New York City’s 1.1 million-student district will be shuttered for the rest of the academic year, but online education will continue as the city struggles to contain the outbreak, mayor Bill de Blasio announced Saturday. It was not an easy decision to close schools, de Blasio said, “but it is the right decision”. The goal is to reopen school sites by September, and high school graduates may be denied a commencement ceremony, de Blasio said. School buildings in New York City, the US epicentre of the pandemic, have been closed since March 16.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//world/us/nyc-schools-to-remain-closed-till-september/articleshow/75103072.cms||---
April 12, 2020||Chandigarh||Punjab identifies 647 Covid vulnerable areas in 16 dist||Chandigarh: In its fight to contain the spread of coronavirus, the Punjab government has so far identified 647 vulnerable areas, including villages and residential colonies, in 16 districts across the state and sealed them as a precautionary measure. The restrictions have been lifted in some areas after improvement in the situation there. Of the 647 areas as on April 10, as many as 599 locations in Ludhiana have been sealed, highest in the state. The district known as industrial hub of the state has recorded 10 positive cases and two deaths. Nawanshahr, second worst-hit district of the state with 19 positive cases, has 15 hot spots, followed by Ropar and Jalandhar where 12 areas each have been sealed. In Mohali, district with highest number of positive cases with figure of 50, eight spots have been sealed, including Jawaharpur in Dera Bassi, which has accounted for 34 cases. This is the highest number of cases reported from one area in the state. People residing in hot spots are not allowed to move out of their home for a fixed period of time. Till the time restrictions are in place, the local administration delivers all essential items, including food and medicine, at their doorstep. Medical teams screen the entire population residing in these areas and those showing symptoms of carrying the virus are tested. People tested positive are shifted to isolation wards. Disinfectants are sprayed in the sealed coronavirus hotspots. Dr Rajesh Bhaskar, spokesperson of Punjab health department, said the list of hot spots was dynamic and changed daily. “New affected areas are included in the list, while areas from where no new cases are reported for a fixed period of time are removed from the list,” said Dr Bhaskar. GEO FENCING The Punjab government has done geo fencing of all the hot spots for keeping a track of movement of individuals through their mobile phone’s cell tower location. The teams keeping a watch get an alert the moment a person steps out of the house. Geo-fencing is accurate by up to 300metre. Dr Bhaskar said they daily get report of people who moved out of the sealed areas. The information is shared with respective deputy commissioners who issue warning to erring individuals. There are other states in the country which are using the same technology to track movement. MASS TESTING The Punjab government is going to increase testing in the hot spots and has urged the central government to speed up the supply of rapid testing kits. The state government has ordered 10 lakh such kits from Indian Council of Medical Research, while raising inquiry for another 10,000 in the open market. Capt Amarinder Singh has already issued directions to the health department to start community testing for severe acute respiratory illness in hotspots for Covid-19 cases. TABLE District | No. of hot spots | No. of positive cases Ludhiana | 599 | 10 Nawanshahr | 15 | 19 Jalandhar | 12 | 15 Ropar | 12 | 3 Mohali | 8 | 50 Hoshiarpur | 8 | 7 Fatehgarh Sahib | 4 | 2 Amritsar | 3 | 11 Muktsar | 2 | 1 Pathankot | 2 | 16 Faridkot | 2 | 2 Patiala | 1 | 2 Moga | 1 | 4 Mansa | 1 | 11 Kapurthala | 1 | 1 Barnala | 1 | 2||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/punjab-identifies-647-covid-vulnerable-areas-in-16-dist/articleshow/75102694.cms||Vinod Kumar
April 12, 2020||Ludhiana||Lawyer, philanthropist and now a mask maker||Ludhiana: She is an advocate by profession, but today she is happier to sit behind the stitching machine and prepare home-made masks for people, who either can’t afford costly masks or don’t have access to the same. Going past deformity in her right leg caused by polio, Deepti Saluja, 42, of Mohar Singh Nagar, has become a role model for the city. She already runs a school for differently-abled named ‘Samarth’, where she trains them in various skills to make them self-reliant. And today, Deepti has turned a tailor to help the poor section fight the deadly virus. “After coronavirus was declared a pandemic, we were getting masks made by the differently-abled persons, whom I had taught. They were paid Rs 10 per mask. We were selling the same or distributing it for free where people could not afford it. However, after the lockdown was imposed, our supply stopped as movement of small manufacturers was curtailed. But I felt restless and wanted to keep contributing for the society in these testing times,” said Deepti. “As I didn’t have a sewing machine, I posted a message on Facebook urging people to arrange me one during the lockdown period. A philanthropist Yashpal Arora, who is already running langar sewa (community kitchen) got me the sewing machine after seeing my message. For the past three days, I have made around 80 such masks,” she said. “As I cannot go out, I will give the same to Yashpal ji who will distribute it among poor children in Tandhari road area,” she said, adding that she will continue to make more masks in the days to come and distribute those among the needy persons. The advocate, who has been practising for the past four years, said she also is trying to get material to prepare sanitisers, which she plans to distribute among the needy. “Through these activities, I want to help the society fight Covid-19 in my own way. I think everyone should use their talent to do whatever they can to check the spread of the disease,” the advocate said. She added that her father Charanjeet Singh and brother Gurpreet has helped her in whatever she does for the society. Deepti said she has been involved in social service for the past three years and has been teaching differently-abled persons various skills including cooking, making candles and diyas and stitching. She said she has also been taking up cases of cancer patients to get them compensation under state and central schemes for free. Advocate Deepti said that she had learnt stitching from her late mother Satnam Kaur who would had a boutique where she used to help her.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/lawyer-philanthropist-and-now-a-mask-maker/articleshow/75102649.cms||Shariq Majeed
April 12, 2020||Ludhiana||Civil hosp seeks special police team to tackle unruly patients||Ludhiana: A day after reports of quarantine patients misbehaving with medical staff of the civil hospital in wards without listening to guidelines of the medical staff, the civil hospital authorities have asked the authorities concerned for specific police officials team to take strict action against all such patients and shift them to different quarantine rooms of the district. Medical staff, including cleaning department officials, have raised the demand before the higher authorities to increase police force around the isolation ward for tackling such incidents of misbehaving with medical staff, which are giving their services in tough conditions. Sources in the health department have said senior medical staff of the hospital had conducted a meeting with the state health authorities and asked them to depute special police officials to look into such incidents and take quick action against those involved, so that the medical staff could continue their services of providing medical treatment to other patients. The recent incident has also aroused a sense of fear among the cleanliness staff of the isolation ward, which is dedicated in their service of maintaining cleanliness in the isolation ward by giving round-the-clock services. But if such incidents continue to occur, then they won’t be able to continue their service for a long time for better results. A medical staff member of the civil hospital on the condition of anonymity said, “This is not the first incident which has been reported before the higher authorities of the state health department but such incidents have been increasing with each passing day and causing trouble to the medical staff and other cleanliness department officials who are taking care of other patients.” “Medical staff of the hospital are in a state of fear because they are survived by their family members, which are dependent on them for managing household expenses. In a recent meeting with the higher authorities of the state, we have made it clear that a special police team will be appointed to look after such incidents in the civil hospital and take preventive measures against all such patients who are not following guidelines properly and disrupting the working of the medical staff of the hospital,” another medical staff member said. Senior medical officer of the civil hospital Ravi Datta said, “We have asked the local administration to increase the cover of security forces around the isolation ward to look into such incidents for early preventive measures against such patients. We are already taking the best efforts possible for providing better healthcare to local Covid suspects in the special wing of the civil hospital. But people should also cooperate with the medical staff and help them in fighting the battle against coronavirus.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/civil-hosp-seeks-special-police-team-to-tackle-unruly-patients/articleshow/75102683.cms||RAHUL TAWAR
April 12, 2020||Ludhiana||Veggie retail, wholesale vendors overcharging||Ludhiana: Even as the market committee here has hiked the share to retail and wholesale vendors, many of them, including online sellers, continue to charge 10-70% more than the approved rates of vegetables and fruits. As per the market committee rate list, whereas the wholesale price of the onion per kg is between Rs 12-18 and retail price is between Rs18-25, but the same is being sold as high as Rs 40 by many online and vendors. Similarly, the wholesale rate per kg of potato is between Rs 13-15 and is to be sold at Rs 20 per kg, but the same is being sold by many sellers at as high as Rs 28 per kg. As per the recent market rate, the wholesale rate per kg of tomato is between Rs 14-21 per kg and is to be sold at Rs 28 per kg, but the same is being sold by many sellers at Rs 45 per kg. Similarly, the market approved rate for cauliflower is Rs .8-12 per kg and same is to be sold in retail market at Rs 18 per kg, but it is being sold at Rs 40 per kg. Meanwhile, many fruit sellers are also selling various fruits at higher prices than the market approved rates. Whereas the wholesale rate of a kg of papaya is Rs 15-25, the retailers can sell it at Rs 32 per kg, but many of them are selling it between Rs 40 and 50 per kg. Also even as whole sale rate is Rs15-22, the same is being sold at Rs 50-60 per kg by many sellers. Responding to the high rates of vegetables and fruits being charged by some online sellers and vegetable vendors, a senior officer in the district administration said the control room set up by them is forwarding such complaints to police nodal officers and they werer taking necessary action against such persons. Meanwhile, many netizens reacted to the market approved rate list on various Facebook pages. A netizen, Varun Jain, wrote on Ludhiana police’s Facebook page, “Please keep on posting this as yesterday I got fruits at a very high price from this rate list from a retail vendor. He charged me Rs 60 per kg for papaya against Rs 32 per kg mentioned in this list.” Another netizen, Chetan Singla, wrote “Fruit vendors are selling at much higher prices in Street No. 5, Janak Puri, Ludhiana. Papaya @ 50, Banana @ 50.. and rest also.. what to do??” District administration, Ludhiana, has started a dedicated 24x7 helpline number, where the residents can submit any complaint regarding related issues as well as any violation of the prohibitory orders issued by the government with regard to prevention of spread of novel coronavirus (Covid-19). The helpline numbers are 0161-2402347 and is 9417228520.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/veggie-retail-wholesale-vendors-overcharging/articleshow/75102686.cms||---
April 12, 2020||Ludhiana||Revenue officer amongst four booked for booze party after curfew violation, one had medical emergency pass||Ludhiana: At a time when the city is fighting hard to keep Covid-19 cases in check, four residents, including a revenue officer, could not resist a get-together. Violating curfew orders, the friends enjoyed a liquor party at the house of one of them. Moreover, one accused even misused his medical emergency pass to reach his friend’s house. Sadar police have booked the four, identified as Amarjeet Singh of Guru Angad Dev Nagar who organized booze party at his house, Amit Kumar of Basant Avenue, A K Rana of Basant Avenue and Daljeet Singh (the patwari). Except Daljeet, other accused, aged between 40 years to 50 years, are all businessmen. Additional deputy commissioner of police-II Jaskiranjit Singh Teja said, “Some residents informed police, following which a team reached the site. But before police could nab them, the accused escaped. The police have collected proof from the spot that revealed that the accused were having a liquor party.” Teja added, “The police have found out that Amit Kumar has got Covid-19 curfew movement pass for medical emergency in his name. However, he misused the pass to reach his friend’s place. Daljeet Singh is a patwari in the Lalton area. The police are trying to nab the accused.” Sadar police have registered a case against the four under Sections 188 (disobedience of orders duly promulgated by public servant) and 269 (negligent act like to spread infection of disease dangerous to life) of the IPC.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/revenue-officer-amongst-four-booked-for-booze-party-after-curfew-violation-one-had-medical-emergency-pass/articleshow/75102651.cms||---
April 12, 2020||Ludhiana||Wanted criminal’s run ends in Doraha||Ludhiana: Khanna police arrested a criminal wanted in several vehicle snatching and drug peddling cases across Punjab. The accused was identified as Satbir Singh Satbira of Rasoolpur in Morinda of Rupnagar district. Khanna SSP Harpreet Singh said Khanna police team got a tip-off about Satbir, who had had fired gunshots in Doraha market on March 17. Satbir coming on foot from a gurdwara side in Doraha. After getting the information, police party arrested Satbir and seized a .315 country-made pistol with two live cartridges. Police said during investigation, the accused revealed that he had many criminal cases against him in various police stations of Punjab and other states. On March 16, he had hired a taxi from Ludhiana to Delhi airport, but on the way, he had snatched the same car from driver. A case was registered against him at Baldev Singh Nagar in Ambala. “Afterwards, he had installed a fake numbers plate (CH-01-0044) on the snatched car and fired a gunshot outside Paramjit jewelry shop at Doraha on the same night. He threatened them through WhatsApp call/message and demanded Rs 5 lakh from his nephew. On March 20, he along with his companions left the car and fled away after noticing cops at a checkpost near Sidhwaan Bet,” Khanna police said. The police said, “Later, he snatched a motorcycle at gunpoint from a biker. A case was registered on March 21 at Sidhwan Bet police station.” Police said Satbir was also wanted in several NDPS cases registered in various police stations across Punjab. The SSP said during the interrogation, the accused admitted to have fired gunshots in the market at Doraha. “The accused is a professional criminal and a habitual offender. He was a wanted criminal in many police stations,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/wanted-criminals-run-ends-in-doraha/articleshow/75102656.cms||---
April 12, 2020||Ludhiana||Farm officers to oversee process of produce reaching mandis||Ludhiana: As the harvesting season is all set to begin within the next few days, it will be a challenging task for around 50 teams of the agriculture department to ensure farmers harvest their crops and take their produce to mandis, especially in view of the lockdown induced by Covid-19. Talking to The Times Of India, chief agriculture officer (CAO) Narinder Singh Benipal said they had deputed agriculture officers in 11 blocks of the district, who will be the nodal officers in each block. He added that in each circle of the block — comprising around 10 to 11 villages — an agriculture development officer would oversee the whole process. The CAO said there were four to five mandis in such villages, where the work will be monitored by the officers. He added that farmers would probably start using combines for harvesting from April 14, and from the next day, mandis would open for procurement. The officer said the district administration had already said spare parts for repairs of machinery would be available from 5 to 8am, during which time farmers could procure them. He added that the harvesting activity would be completed within the next month. The CAO said, “To ensure farmers don’t gather in mandis, they have been asked to talk to arhtiyas (with whom they have contact) and get time from them before bringing the crop to the mandis.” He added they were getting announcements done for farmers from gurdwaras about social distancing during the harvesting and selling of crops, apart from educating them through their officials.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/farm-officers-to-oversee-process-of-produce-reaching-mandis/articleshow/75102659.cms||---
April 12, 2020||Ludhiana||Say it with flowers, the best way to beat lockdown blues||Ludhiana: At a time when most residents are being made to stay at home due to the lockdown, several residents are finding solace in growing flowers. A random survey conducted by Dr Harpreet Singh, principal of GGN Institute of Management and Technology at Ghumar Mandi; and Prof Harjeet Kaur from GHG College of Education at Raikot found that several people found flowers as an effective means to beat depression and tension, while staying at home. In this study, the researchers collected the statements of adults (both men and women) and children through various social media, which were eventually analysed for the results. Most of the respondents said flowers had a positive impact on their psychology and helped in reducing stress. People surrounded by flowers appeared to be less anxious and depressed than those who had not grown flowers. The former also seemed to have derived more satisfaction from life than the latter. The study further found that people who think of flowers have better sleeping patterns, a positive impact on creativity, better focus on work, higher tolerance to pain, and even improved attention spans. When asked if flowers elevate their mood, a majority of respondents said ‘instantly’. So, the researchers have advised people to grow more flowers in the coming season. It also appeared from the research that women’s moods were more uplifted by flowers than that of men. Most children, however, were found to be indifferent, and preferred spending their time instead with gadgets. When asked if Covid-19 made them get closer to nature, more than half the people said ‘yes’, one third responded ‘to a great extent’, and only the remaining few (about 17%) said ‘such incidents do not change our lives’. Roses were easily the most loved flowers because of their association with romance. Also, working women felt more relaxed looking at flowers than housewives, for they felt flowers brought a change in their environment. One third of respondents working in offices confirmed that they had started growing flowers after the lockdown. It was also found that working people forced to stay at home with flowers around them tend to forget their worries, were less anxious and tired, and generally in a more positive state of mind than people who do not live with flowers. Some of them also reported lower blood pressure readings. The researchers of the study concluded that flowers have a healing effect not only on those who have grown them in their homes, but also on those who simply share and receive pictures of flowers through social media. Thus, they advised people to spend more time with flowering plants, and extensively share pictures of home-grown flowers with their near ones to boost their morale and avoid depression during the lockdown period.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/say-it-with-flowers-the-best-way-to-beat-lockdown-blues/articleshow/75102662.cms||---
April 12, 2020||Chandigarh||Fewer cases in Mohali as state figure touches 158||Chandigarh/Amritsar/Jalandhar/Patiala: Seven people tested positive for coronavirus in Punjab on Saturday, taking the total number of cases of the virus in the state to 158. The samples of a woman, who died in Mohali a day ago, also tested positive and her death was added to the state’s fatality count, taking the figure to 12. An eighth case was reported from Faridkot, but it could not be confirmed with the director of health services. Of the latest cases, three are from Jalandhar, two from Mohali, and one each from Pathankot and Patiala. In Jalandhar, the new patients are the wife, son and grandson of a man who died of the virus on Thursday and whose death was confirmed to be from coronavirus on Friday. The son of deceased is a local functionary of the Congress and he was involved in distributing ration among needy for some days. He had also attended a meeting with Jalandhar North MLA Bawa Henry, who quarantined himself on Wednesday evening. The health department has not been able to find possible links from where the family contracted the infection. Same is the case with other three positive patients from Jalandhar city. In Mohali, the new cases are also from Derabassi’s Jawaharpur village. They too are contacts of a 42-year-old panch’s contacts. With this, the number of cases in the village has touched 34 and 50 in the district. In Pathankot, a 42-year-old man from Dunera tested positive, said deputy commissioner Gurpreet Singh Khera. Patiala reported its second coronavirus case, 10 days after the first one. The patient is a gardener in the house of a PCS officer who works with with the Punjab State Services Commission (PPSC). Patiala civil surgeon Harish Malhotra said protocol to deal with coronavirus patients was being followed and process to identify all his contacts has been initiated. The infected person has been admitted to the isolation ward of Government Rajindra Hospital. He had been living at the officer’s house with two people. In Faridkot, the suspected patient is a friend of the second man who contracted the virus in the district. Deputy commissioner Kumar Saurabh Raj said health authorities were tracing al contacts of the man.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/fewer-cases-in-mohali-as-state-figure-touches-158/articleshow/75102692.cms||---
April 12, 2020||Chandigarh||Hry’s third coronavirus testing lab starts in Karnal||Karnal: Haryana’s third coronavirus testing laboratory became operational on Saturday at Kalpana Chawla Government Medical College, Karnal. On day one, a total of 41 samples were tested for Covid-19 in the laboratory, out of which one was found positive and 40 negative. Deputy commissioner Nishant Yadav said the laboratory has been set up on the third floor of the KCGMC. A trial run of the lab was successfully conducted on Thursday. Samples from Kaithal and Kurukshetra districts would also be investigated here, he said. DC Yadav said necessary staff has already been hired by the KCGMC authorities and reverse transcription polymerase chain reaction (RTPCR) machine for the lab has been taken from the National Dairy Research Institute (NDRI), as the delivery of RTPCR machine got delayed. The lab can test 144 samples per day. He said PGIMS, Rohtak and Bhagat Phool Singh Medical College, Khanpur Kalan, in Sonepat already have testing facility. The samples of Covid-19 suspects were being sent to the medical college in Sonipat, but after setting up of this lab, more tests can be conducted and reports would also be out within hours.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/hrys-third-coronavirus-testing-lab-starts-in-karnal/articleshow/75102698.cms||---
