April 13, 2020||Bengaluru||What’s on your plate today? Joy, anger or sadness?||Did you know that there is something called mood food? Well, it is apparently the stuff you eat depending on how you feel or want to feel. For instance, a recent study on the relationship between nutrition and mental health claims that that consumption of food like fish, dark chocolate and bananas could help improve one’s mood. Named after the kind of food one consumes depending on his/her mood, these food items range from sweets to fast food. ANGER/FRUSTRATIONWhat is usually consumed: Emotions like anger, frustration or irritation usually lead to the consumption of fast food, which means eating preserved food items that contain a lot of fatty acids. The indigestion issues caused by consuming these items may upset one’s temperament further. The healthy take: Fruits help calm a person down. Anger causes stress and an increased heart rate, both of which can be helped with small quantities of bananas, apples, oranges, blueberries, chia and pumpkin seeds and even leafy green vegetables like spinach and cabbage. SADNESSWhat is usually consumed: If you’ve seen enough rom-coms, you’ll know that chocolates and ice creams are the go-to sadness comfort foods. But instead of just making you feel better, what it also does is lead to obesity, diabetes and many more health risks. The healthy take: True that ice-cream and chocolate help the body release serotonins, but when had in excess, they are detrimental to one’s health. So, if you are craving a frozen dessert, have a homemade fruit juice popsicle, or use natural sweeteners like jaggery or honey, or a fruit as well. And if all else fails, dark chocolate it is. ANXIETY/STRESSWhat is usually consumed: Stress and anxiety are behind several eating disorders and while some eat a lot when they’re stressed or anxious, others avoid it, leading to low blood pressure, fluctuating blood sugar levels, gastro-intestinal issues and more. Candies, milk chocolates, meat, and French fries are the most common stress-eating items. The healthy take: Chewing on a small mix of dry fruits is the best bet for stress munchin’. Muesli is another healthy choice, which could be consumed with dairy products like milk or yoghurt, making it a small meal as well. HAPPINESSWhat is usually consumed: Have you noticed how cakes and aerated drinks are a part of almost every happy occasion? Some of these food items have refined flour, refined sugar and added fats that play havoc with your cholesterol levels, apart from other health risks like heart disease and/or liver damage. The healthy take: Get rid of refined sugar and go with healthier alternatives like palm sugar. Avoid refined flour as much as possible, while aerated drinks or shakes can always be switched with lemonades, fruit juices and healthy smoothies. WHEN THE HORMONES STRIKE…What is usually consumed: Pregnancy, menstruation cycles and adolescence, all bring with them a lot of hormonal changes that lead to mood swings. While teens consume a lot of junk food like pizza and burgers, pregnant women tend to crave sweet, tangy or spicy items that often end up causing issues like heartburn, acidity, etc. The healthy take: Hormonal issues need to be addressed with nutrition. Milk-based products, citrus fruits and extra protein in the form of meat and soyabeans are a must. One could also consume bananas in the case of hunger pangs, but keep it to a maximum of two in a day. – With inputs by dietary expert Tanuta Basu and nutrition experts Tanuja Jain, Ranjani Raman and Elita Dsilva||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/whats-on-your-plate-today-joy-anger-or-sadness/articleshow/75110090.cms||Hansy Sanctis
April 13, 2020||Chennai||This Chennai photog is capturing #CoronaCrisis stories with toys||In a stunning artwork, Zippora Madhukar recreates a poignant moment in India’s struggle against the coronavirus — of immigrants walking back to their villages shortly after the lockdown was announced. In this Chennai photographer’s photo, toys take the place of migrants walking towards the sun. This reimagining of the incident is just one photo out of Zippora’s photo series, which she kickstarted with her two young sons on Instagram. Made out of toys, her artworks tell a tiny story about the coronavirus crisis. Right from the recreation of Indian Railways’ isolation coaches to Chennai’s famous corona helmets, every miniature creation aims at making her kids look at the crisis with sensitivity, the photographer tells us. “One day, when we went up to the terrace with our kids, we took some lego along with us. I had my camera with me and we began clicking some pictures. It kind of took off from there,” she says. The concept for each artwork, too, generated out of regular living-room conversations. “This was a nice tool to help the kids understand what was going on. I began asking them how they understand the crisis. The Superhero concept was my children’s idea, for instance,” she says, adding that their imaginations often run wild. “My sons would come up with the most innovative ideas. Batman bringing in drones to help people was something they came up with. My job is to make things a little more practical,” she says with a laugh, noting that Chennai’s disinfectant drones, too, served as a huge inspiration for the concept. The intent was also to use something that the kids were already familiar with, to paint imaginative pictures. “Ever since we made the artwork of the sneezing man and the superheroes around him, my five-year-old became very conscious about germs,” Zippora says.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/this-chennai-photog-is-capturing-coronacrisis-stories-with-toys/articleshow/75110863.cms||Sruthi Raman
April 13, 2020||Bengaluru||Felines susceptible to Coronavirus: Bengaluru's animal experts recommend safety protocol for pets, too||Since news of a cat testing COVID-19 positive in Hong Kong broke earlier this month, pet parents have been a worried lot. And with Nadia, the New York Bronx Zoo's Malayan tiger testing positive as well, their concerns have only increased. Even cases of pet abandonment are cropping up around the city, informs Saleela Kappan, a Bengaluru resident who takes care of eight cats. "It is sad that despite having no substantial data around pets and COVID-19, we are seeing cases of pet abandonment being reported in various animal rescue groups," she says. This, despite global health organisations (think World Health Organisation and Centers for Disease Control and Prevention) insisting there is no danger of contracting the virus from pets. But given the instances of animals contracting from humans, what should pet parents be doing? Bangalore Times gets experts to weigh in... 'Coronavirus infections are not new to cats and dogs'Before drawing parallels, experts advise a proper understanding of how a Coronavirus reacts in pets, first. "Studies in China show that adult cats are susceptible and the virus does multiply in their respiratory system in a week. But after that, the cat's immune system takes over and it does not translate into a disease. But this cannot be generalised for cats in India, as specific studies on the same, are yet to be done here," says small animal specialist Dr Pampapathi Gourannanavar, who has been getting several calls from worried pet parents of late. Veterinarian and animal expert, Dr Ansar Kamran adds, "Coronavirus infections are not new to cats and dogs. But these translate into different issues and diseases among cats, which in no way transmit to humans," he shares, pointing out that we will have to wait and watch, since there have only been a couple of stray incidents of felines being infected by the strain of CoronaVirus that causes COVID-19. 'Cats are susceptible to contracting from humans'Dr Umashankar, veterinarian and assistant director of Bannerghatta Biological Park (BBP), stresses that Coronavirus cannot be transmitted from pets to humans, but on the other hand, cats are susceptible to contracting the virus from us. "If you are a cat parent, it is advisable to self-isolate for a minimum of a month and not come in contact with your cats or handle them. And if handling, ensure you are wearing gloves, a face mask and sanitise your hands before holding your cat," he says. Dr Pampapathi agrees, adding, "My advice is that if you have tested positive for COVID-19 keep yourself away from the pet just like you would, from other people. Also, when bringing your cats to the clinic, bring them in crates or cat carriers and avoid holding them, to ensure their safety." 'It is our responsibility to protect them'While animal experts around the globe await further studies on COVID-19 and pets, pet owners have begun taking precautions to ensure the safety of their four-legged companions. "We have five domestic cats and we ensure safety protocols are followed for them. It is better to keep them indoors and protect them. We are more dangerous to them than they are to us, hence it is our responsibility to protect them," says Bindu Subramaniam, a pet owner in Bengaluru. Actress Samyukta Hornad, who, in addition to being a cat parent, also goes out to feed strays, ensures she wears gloves and follows safety protocol such as not petting the dogs and feeding them from a distance. Her advice is, "People should ensure that their cats do not come in contact with any other pet or stray or human, and maintain social distancing while out for a walk. I do not want to give in to the wrong news and my advice to cat parents is the same." Use pet shampoos, not sanitiserWhile experts recommend safety protocol for pets, they caution against using products like sanitisers (that can be chemical-laden) on them. Urging pet parents to stay away from sanitisers as much as possible, Dr Pampapathi shares, "cats are good at cleaning themselves. And they do not like anything on their paws or whole body as such. The only thing I would suggest, is to keep the cat indoors." Instead, use cat and dog shampoos for cleaning or bathing your pets, as these are pet-friendly and devoid of harmful chemicals.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/felines-susceptible-to-coronavirus-bengalurus-animal-experts-recommend-safety-protocol-for-pets-too/articleshow/75110431.cms||Joyeeta Chakravorty
April 13, 2020||India||Farmers stare at bitter Baiskahi as Covid-19 hits in peak season||Telangana is looking at a bumper crop of paddy, maize and chilli this year. But, unlike most years, farmers aren’t celebrating. They can only stare in desolation at their crop withering away in the fields under the intense heat. For labourers are sparse. And the few available find it difficult to dodge the police to make it to the fields  In the north, Punjab is staring at a muted Baisakhi. While the state government has decided on staggered procurement of wheat and other rabi crops that were sown in winter, farmers are worried this would extend into sowing of kharif crop and lead to hit in produce NEW DELHI: As Covid-19 rages, in farms across the country it’s a grim Baiskahi staring at farmers hit by a plethora of woes — from the labour force working on fields drying up due to fear and migration to crops drying up, lack of liquidity among farmers and even a severe shortage of gunny bags to pack produce. Even fear of catching the virus in big cities is keeping farmers and transporters away from transporting crop and vegetables. Most farmers in Punjab and Haryana grow wheat, the biggest rabi crop. It will be difficult to ask them to stagger their harvest as they are worried over clearing their fields to prepare for sowing of kharif (summer-sown) crops like paddy, cotton, maize, bajra and pulses. Also, most of the mandis employ a large number of labourers, mostly migrants, who are away due to the lockdown. So handling of produce, especially wheat, after procurement will be difficult due to manpower shortage. Also, an acute shortage of gunny bags —with supply from Bengal yet to arrive — for packing wheat is likely to hit the two states. The farmers in these states will also be affected by funds liquidity as they would need money immediately to buy seeds for the next crop season. In Madhya Pradesh, farmers can hardly do much but watch their standing crops drying up as summer sets in. In the present situation, wheat procurement is likely to be affected at major centers including Bhopal, Indore and Ujjain districts battling with coronavirus. “Summer’s getting harsh by the day and grains have started falling off. This may result in lower yield,” said farmer leader Shivkumar Sharma. Shortage of gunny bags has hit MP farmers too. Farmers in MP depend mostly on rabi crops with a high sowing area of over 120 lakh hectare. More than half of this accounts for wheat. Besides, cash crops like gram, pulses and mustard too are grown in rabi season. “Lockdown is necessary, but harvesting of crops is also important and time is running out,” said Sharma. As labourers are not venturing out, farmers and their families are struggling to harvest their crops. “In absence of labourers, my wife and family members have pitched in. It is a skilled job, and we are not used to doing it on our own,” said Imrat Lal, a farmer living on the oustkirts of Bhopal. While Telangana is expecting a bumper paddy, crop harvesting has hit a roadblock as agriculture labourers refuse to enter fields owing to the virus scare. The lockdown has triggered further shortage of labour, impacting harvesting and marketing of paddy, maize, chilli and other crops. Migration of farm labour has made matters worse. More than two weeks into the harvest season, farmers are at their wits’ end on how to harvest their paddy. “Even if we manage to organise labourers, police are restricting their movement because of the lockdown. Harvesting is totally disrupted,” said a farmer in Nizamabad. Paddy was sown in record 40 lakh acres in Telangana. If there are fewer vegetables and fruits in Mumbai markets, it is because traders and farmers from Nashik and western Maharashtra are struggling to get labourers to do field work and transport farm produce to the state capital. Nashik has a lion’s share in the vegetable market of Mumbai and over 500 tonnes are sent daily through 150 vehicles. Since the lockdown, the supply has reduced substantially. The farmers are counting their losses. Usually, the three and half months from February is the peak period for vegetables farmers. At present, farmers have good acreage of vegetables ready to harvest, but the demand for the crop has reduced and there is lack of enough labourers. With inputs from Chandigarh, Hyderabad,||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/farmers-stare-at-bitter-baiskahi-as-covid-19-hits-in-peak-season/articleshow/75113023.cms||---
April 13, 2020||Business||Airfare likely to shoot up threefold due to social distancing in planes||NEW DELHI: The first few days post lockdown could see airfares skyrocket to up to three times the pre-corona ticket costs as flights may be operating with only one-third occupancy to ensure maximum social distancing between onboard passengers. Aviation authorities are evaluating the option of allowing only one person in a row of three seats, with another passenger in the immediately-behind row-of-three on the diametrically opposite seat — widow-aisle-windowaisle configuration — during ‘Phase I’ of the restart. The seating capacity of a 180-seater single aisle (six seats across 30 rows) will, therefore, fall by two-thirds to 60 (two persons on each row of six seats across 30 rows). To compensate for the loss of capacity, airlines will need to raise fares by anywhere between 1.5 to 3 times, say officials. “Given the seat width, having one vacant seat between two passengers may not be adequate social distancing. With time, as things hopefully improve on the corona front in terms of spread getting contained and medicines/vaccines being developed, we will gradually ease onboard social distancing norms,” said a senior official. The Directorate General of Civil Aviation (DGCA) is preparing a flight resumption plan that will be implemented once the government allows schedule passenger movement post lockdown. The regulator is likely to seek a 1.5-metre distancing between passengers at airports, by marking points everywhere — right from entry gate to the check-in counter, security check, immigration (for international) counters and boarding gates. “Discussions have already been held with airlines and airport operators. Given the low volume of travel expected in the first few weeks, 1.5-metre distancing will not be an issue at big airports like Delhi, Mumbai, Hyderabad and some others,” said the official. Given the poor health of all Indian carriers, with Indi-Go being the only player with some cash reserves, it remains to be seen who all survive the pandemic-blow. The PPP airport revenue model is based on footfalls with operators making the capital expenditure, based on aeronautical (from airlines through landing, parking charges of aircraft) and non-aero (people shopping and eating) earnings from a projected traffic flow over a period of time. Also, weak balance sheets have rendered Indian players “extremely vulnerable”. The aviation ministry has made a presentation to finance ministry about the relief the airline and the airport sectors urgently require “to stay afloat”. More on Covid-19Coronavirus pandemic: Complete Coverage21-day lockdown: What will stay open and what won'tHow to quarantine yourself at homeTrust the newspaper for your daily verified news||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/airfare-likely-to-shoot-up-threefold-due-to-social-distancing-in-planes/articleshow/75113280.cms||Saurabh Sinha
April 13, 2020||Goa||Unlike others, no help for African footballers stuck in India||PANAJI: Loveday Enyinnaya will see Real Kashmir FC coach David Robertson, defender Mason and a few members of the support staff pack their bags for home later this week. Stuck in Srinagar because of the national lockdown with no movement whatsoever, Robertson managed to get in touch with the British embassy who helped arrange for flights back home. Like the Brits, there is help on call for Spanish footballers stranded across the country too. Football in these difficult times can wait. Everyone wants to be with their families. Loveday, a former captain at the club, wants to be in Nigeria, but there’s nobody to help. “I tried to contact my friend at the embassy but he has not been taking calls. This looks like a difficult situation for all of us,” said Loveday. The Nigerian defender is stuck at the team hotel in Srinagar – also the club’s headquarters – since the lockdown was announced last month. His hometown in eastern Nigeria hasn’t recorded a single case of Covid-19, and it’s no surprise that he is longing to be home. “The situation is a little bit difficult for us here, coming from Africa. We have to wait and hope that the situation improves and see if there is any change of mind, anywhere,” he said. Loveday is not alone. At the team hotel, he is joined by three other African teammates, all of whom are left to grope in the dark. “For now, I am sure there is no solution. We just have to wait for the lockdown to be over. I will be happy if there is a solution to go back,” said Aaron Katebe. The Zambian defender spends much of his time either “telling stories” to his teammates, training at the gymnasium, or trying to get in touch with the embassy. He got a call from the embassy last week, although not surprisingly there didn’t appear to be any solution in sight. In Aizawl, Alfred Jaryan is a popular figure. Well known and liked in that part of the world after five seasons at the club, the Aizawl captain shares an apartment with Ugandan teammate Richard Kassaga and seeks 15 more minutes to get talking. In these times of lockdown, he has some cooking to do. “We struggled initially with nothing available but then the local council provided us with food stuff,” said Alfred. As a footballer, though, he knows these are the sacrifices that all need to make. “We have to adapt and help each other,” said Alfred. The first few positive cases of coronavirus were detected down south in Kerala. The state has been doing its best to fight the pandemic and Gokulam Kerala FC officials are trying to make the foreign players feel at home. “I have a lot of time now to talk to my family,” joked Henry Kisekka. Most of the striker’s day is spent either on the phone with his family or at the gymnasium, located in the same building where they have been put up. “The best we can do at the moment is not to get mentally affected. We have everything here at the club but in these difficult times, it would have been best to be at home,” said Kisekka. His teammate, Atuheire Kipson from Rwanda, is counting the days too. Fortunately for him, with his wife by his side, it’s not all that gloomy. When he is bored, there is FIFA Football, a video game series. But for most others, it’s a long, dreadful wait before they get home. African players in I-LeagueReal Kashmir FC: Gnohere Krizo, Bazie Armand (both Ivory Coast), Aaron Katebe (Zambia), Loveday Enyinnaya (Nigeria) Aizawl FC: Abdoulaye Kanoute (Mali), Justice Morgan, Alfred Jaryan (both Nigeria), Richard Kassaga (Uganda), Joseph Adjei (Ghana) TRAU: Princewell Emeka, Joseph Mayowa, Joel Sunday, Patrick Uche (all Nigeria) Neroca FC: Philip Adja Tetteh (Ghana), Boubacar Diarra (Mali), Ousmane Diawara (Mali) Gokulam Kerala: Henry Kisekka (Uganda), Atuheire Kipson (Rwanda) Churchill Brothers: Kalif Alhassan (Ghana), Dawda Ceesay (Gambia) Punjab FC: Dipanda Dicka (Cameroon), Obumneme Kinglsey (Nigeria) East Bengal: Kassim Aidara (Senegal) Mohun Bagan: Papa Diawara (Senegal)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/unlike-others-no-help-for-african-footballers-stuck-in-india/articleshow/75112810.cms||Marcus Mergulhao
April 13, 2020||India||Govt to expand Covid-19 testing to 'cold spots' with no cases yet||NEW DELHI: In a bid to widen testing and ensure that no significant number of Covid-19 cases are being left out, the government plans to expand testing in clusters chosen in ‘cold spots’ or areas where there are no cases reported as of now. This will be a significant decision that takes the focus beyond hotspot areas in around 133 districts where there is a high incidence of the disease. The districts that will be taken up for sampling are being identified and a combination of pool and rapid testing will be adopted to check for the presence of Covid-19. The move, besides providing additional clinical data of the disease, is also intended to respond to criticism that India is not testing enough and positive cases might be under-reported. The sampling will be on the basis of surveillance and tests will be conducted on ILI (influenza like illness) patients to track the presence of coronavirus. As of now, at least half of India’s 720 districts are yet to report Covid-19 and the cases so far are concentrated in certain districts and cities in a pattern that can vary from state to state and even within states. While pool testing is a RT-PCR process, seen as a reliable means of detecting the disease, the rapid test option is intended to test for antibodies. The arrival of rapid test kits from China has been delayed but the first lot of kits is expected to reach soon. These will be used in hotspot areas and, in keeping with the decision under consideration, also in areas where there are no reports of the disease yet. Sources said India’s testing strategy has evolved and while it did initially have to tailor testing to availability of labs, this was based on scientific advice and did not miss out on the spread of the disease. People, mostly Indians, who returned from abroad and their contacts were at highest risk as established by their case histories. Testing of respiratory patients was expanded to cover all ILI patients and trends in ICU admissions and OPD visits were tracked closely so that neither serious or mild patients were missed. The government did not have a dogmatic position on testing which has been reviewed as the profile of the disease changed with the Centre adopting a proactive approach, seeking to anticipate the challenge by formulating aggressive containment methods and also increasing testing from a few hundreds a day to more than 16,000 a day now. The utility of private labs, an official said, was affected by the Supreme Court order that the tests must be free and the Centre was seeking an amendment in the order. It's time to mask up and stay safe: Join TOI's #MaskIndia campaignThe expanded testing regime reflects the added capabilities but does not depart from the view — backed by the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) — that the process is not merely a “confidence-building” exercise. Tests must be performed on those who need it most while strategies adopt to the graph of the disease which so far reveals a positive rate of 4-5% of tests conducted on an average. So far, India has largely done targeted testing through RT-PCR — the conventional confirmatory test approved by ICMR — capturing mainly those who are symptomatic with travel or contact history. To check on community transmission, it later also included all hospitalised patients of severe acute respiratory illness (SARI) and asymptomatic direct and high-risk contacts of a confirmed case. Following a significant increase in cases after the exodus of workers from cities to their native villages and the Tablighi Jamaat outbreak, the government revised its testing strategy a number of times. On April 4, ICMR issued an advisory to test symptomatic people in cluster (containment) zones in hotspots and in large pockets of returnees from cities but through the first generation rapid antibody tests. Further, the government also evolved its testing strategy to include other tests for Covid-19 like TrueNat and CB-NAAT used for tuberculosis testing. It is also adding machines available with NACO. More on Covid-19Coronavirus pandemic: Complete Coverage21-day lockdown: What will stay open and what won'tHow to quarantine yourself at homeTrust the newspaper for your daily verified newsHowever, as cases continued to rise and in the absence of rapid antibody testing kits, ICMR on April 9 approved RT-PCR tests for all symptomatic people in hotspots and in large migration gathering or evacuees centres. In the last 10 days, the sample size tested through RT-PCT increased from 5,000 a day to an average of 15,000 in a single day, according to ICMR. Till 2 pm on Sunday, a total of 1,86,906 samples were tested for Covid-19, of this 4.3% were positive, ICMR said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/govt-to-expand-testing-to-cold-spots-with-no-cases-yet/articleshow/75113417.cms||---
April 13, 2020||India||Need steps to get labourers back: Gadkari||NEW DELHI: Admitting that getting back labourers to work sites and factories will be a tough task, Union minister Nitin Gadkari has said both the government and private companies will need to undertake confidence-building measures for migrant workers to return to work. At a recently held review meeting on the preparedness to resume road construction work, NHAI officials told the minister that they have identified sites where a large number of labourers are still staying in camps and work can start quickly. Similarly, medium and small scale entrepreneurs are trying to get their workforce to facilities which are located outside crowded areas. The government has indicated that even if the lockdown is extended, there would be some relaxations including resuming limited manufacturing and construction activities. Sources said even an empowered group of secretaries has suggested that resuming industrial production should be allowed in areas which fall in green and amber zones. It has suggested normalcy of logistics supply can happen only when there is production of essential and other items as well. Speaking to a group of reporters through video conference from his Nagpur residence on Saturday, Gadkari said lakhs of labourers leaving cities is a serious concern. He said it is up to the state governments and local administration to come out with a framework to encourage them to return to work. In response to a question from TOI, the minister said, “Infrastructure sector will attract foreign fund and government’s priority is to jump-start infrastructure development activities to generate employment and push economic activities.” On the life after Covid-19, Gadkari said “We have learnt many things from this crisis. We must manufacture more such items that we need here and also build an export market. We can take the place of other countries which are leading exporters of those items.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/need-steps-to-get-labourers-back-gadkari/articleshow/75113734.cms||Dipak K Dash
April 13, 2020||Varanasi||Drowning of children by woman in Bhadohi: 4 bodies recovered, one missing||VARANASI: In Sunday morning’s sensational case of drowning five children in Ganga river by a woman in UP's Bhadohi district, police have recovered four bodies till Monday afternoon while the search for their 3-year-old sibling continued at Jahagirabad village under Gopiganj police station. SP Bhadohi RB Singh said that the woman, who swam to safety after jumping into the river with five children on Sunday, has been booked in a murder case. He said that the family had no financial problem and Manju in her statement given to police admitted that due to restrained relations with husband Mridul Yadav alias Munna, who used to assault her and children, she initiated the harsh step. Manju (36) of Jahagirabad had reached near the bank of river Ganga on Sunday morning with children - Shiv Shankar (6), Keshav (3), Aarti (11), Saraswati (7) and Mateshwari (5). She asked all of them to jump into the river with her. The children followed the instruction of their mother. However, after becoming sure that they all have drowned she swam out and sat on the bank. Some villagers, who reached the river bank after sometime sought reason from her for sitting there when she divulged to have drowned her children. Alarmed over it, locals alerted police. After reaching the spot Gopiganj cops immediately engaged local divers to search the missing children. SP Bhadohi said that after exercising hard the divers had fished out the bodies of Aarti and Saraswati till Sunday night while bodies of Mateshwari and Shiv were searched on Monday morning. Search for the body of Keshav continued, he added. The SP said that when cops interrogated Manju during the initial investigation she said that her husband used to thrash her and also children. Mridul had gone somewhere two days ago, he said, adding, the woman in her statement stated that after having dinner with children on Saturday they also watched television till late night. When the reporters entered her house after the incident, cooked food items were also found. Police said that Mridul was employed at a local business firm as a salesman and the family had not any financial problem. Mridul’s father was a government school primary teacher.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/varanasi/drowning-of-children-by-woman-in-bhadohi-4-bodies-recovered-one-missing/articleshow/75122934.cms||Rajeev Dikshit
April 13, 2020||World||After outcry, China begins strict checks of test kits, PPE||NEW DELHI: Stung by the adverse publicity due to the supply of sub-standard testing kits and personal protective equipment (PPE) to foreign recipients, China has begun a rigorous quality control for fresh consignments that are being shipped across the globe, including India, with a list of pre-screened firms eligible to handle contracts. The enforcement of stringent standards on manufacturers in China, along with certification, has meant that the number of companies producing testing kits and other equipment has significantly shrunk. “It may be just 25-30 of them who are now cleared to export testing kits,” said a source aware of the procurement process. Coronavirus pandemic: Live updatesThe Chinese measures come after efforts to counter global criticism for the spread of Covid-19 due to alleged non-reporting of the outbreak in Wuhan by moving to supply critical equipment to affected countries backfired in view of reports of their poor quality. Not willing to take further chances, Chinese authorities have begun checking equipment even at the pre-shipment stage. There is a round of testing before the consignments are shipped with the customs undertaking random checks to ensure that below par goods do not land up in foreign markets at a time when Chinese authorities are trying to position the country as a key source for fighting the pandemic. The quality control regime being followed across the border has meant that Indian authorities are unsure of the quantities that they will get as they stockpile testing kits, PPEs, masks and other key material. “It will come but it may come in batches,” said a source. China is the global hub for the key gear needed to combat coronavirus that has already claimed over one lakh lives globally. More on Covid-19Coronavirus pandemic: Complete Coverage21-day lockdown: What will stay open and what won'tHow to quarantine yourself at homeTrust the newspaper for your daily verified newsThe Indian embassy in China is coordinating shipments although the Centre and the states are placing orders, either directly to manufacturers or traders in the neighbouring country or through suppliers whose number has increased over the last few weeks. Chinese goods had faced severe criticism as faulty testing kits and masks landed in Spain, the UK, Czech Republic, Italy, the Netherlands, Slovakia and Turkey. After Spain found that 60,000 of the kits sourced from China did not provide accurate results, the Chinese embassy said that Shenzhen Bioeasy Biotechnology, the supplier, did not have licence to sell the products. It's time to mask up and stay safe: Join TOI's #MaskIndia campaignNews reports have said that Georgia cancelled its order, while Malaysia has opted to source products from South Korea instead of China, due to the experience in other countries. There were also problems with counterfeiting as the earlier regime required exported medical products only obtain certificates in receiving countries, which could be easily counterfeited in China.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//world/china/after-outcry-china-begins-strict-checks-of-test-kits-ppe/articleshow/75113745.cms||---
April 13, 2020||Business||With Aarogya Setu app, India has shown the way, says World Bank||NEW DELHI: India has stolen a march over other global tech giants by launching the Aarogya Setu app which helps significantly in contact tracing and curbing the spread of the dreaded Covid-19 pandemic with experts and multilateral agencies terming it as a useful innovation to stop the disease from spreading. Days after the launch of the app, global tech majors Apple and Google said on Saturday that they were building a software into smartphones that would help in contact tracing and inform users whether they were in touch with Covid-19 infected persons. “India leads the way in contact tracing for Covid-19: privacy first by design, secure, robust and scalable to billion users. Glad to see Apple and Google joining hands to develop contact tracing on the lines of Aarogya Setu,” NITI Aayog Amitabh Kant said on Twitter tagging Apple CEO Tim Cook and Google CEO Sundar Pichai. India leads the way in contact tracing for COVID-19: privacy-first by design, secure, robust and scalable to billio… https://t.co/rIAYteUybr— Amitabh Kant (@amitabhk87) 1586608665000Citing the example of the app, a World Bank report released on Sunday said innovative solutions could greatly help educate and track contagion across the populations at large. For safety against Covid-19, users can download Aarogya Setu app. Please download and share it using the below links: iOS: https://apps.apple.com/in/app/aarogyasetu/id1505825357Android: https://play.google.com/store/apps/details?id=nic.goi.aarogyasetu“Digital technologies can also be used to monitor the spread of Covid-19. Such initiatives, largely voluntary, have been successful in helping combat the pandemic in East Asia. Incentives also can be provided to those who report symptoms. India recently launched an app, Aarogya Setu, that uses location data from persons’ smartphones to tell users if they have been near someone who tested positive for Covid-19,” said the South Economic Focus report of the World Bank. It's time to mask up and stay safe: Join TOI's #MaskIndia campaign“Privacy concerns can be dealt with by legislating sunset clauses on tracking systems. The region houses many poor and uneducated households that are nevertheless tech-savvy, and the innovative solutions technology could greatly help educate and track contagion across the populations at large,” the report said. Kant said this was a world-class app aimed at helping curb the spread of the disease. “The app has been developed with a whole of India approach and has been possible with public-private partnership with the best expertise,” Kant told TOI. More on Covid-19Coronavirus pandemic: Complete Coverage21-day lockdown: What will stay open and what won'tHow to quarantine yourself at homeTrust the newspaper for your daily verified newsThe government has been on a drive to popularise the app and has explained that adequate precautions have been taken with regard to privacy. Legal experts also said there are three features that have been built into Aarogya Setu to preserve privacy. “First, personal information is de-identified at registration so that thereafter the app only uses a unique device identity to identify you, not your name or any other personal information. Second, the information that the app collects— those you come in contact with and your location information—is kept on the phone by default. It is only sent to the NIC servers when you have either come in contact with an infected person or where your probability of being infected is high,” Rahula Matthan, partner at legal consulting firm Trilegal told TOI. “Finally, data that is collected by the app, both that which remains on your device and which has been uploaded to the servers are purged on a regular basis,” said Matthan,||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/with-aarogya-setu-app-india-has-shown-the-way-says-world-bank/articleshow/75115664.cms||Surojit Gupta
April 13, 2020||India||With Aarogya Setu app, India has shown the way, says World Bank||NEW DELHI: India has stolen a march over other global tech giants by launching the Aarogya Setu app which helps significantly in contact tracing and curbing the spread of the dreaded Covid-19 pandemic with experts and multilateral agencies terming it as a useful innovation to stop the disease from spreading. Days after the launch of the app, global tech majors Apple and Google said on Saturday that they were building a software into smartphones that would help in contact tracing and inform users whether they were in touch with Covid-19 infected persons. “India leads the way in contact tracing for Covid-19: privacy first by design, secure, robust and scalable to billion users. Glad to see Apple and Google joining hands to develop contact tracing on the lines of Aarogya Setu,” NITI Aayog Amitabh Kant said on Twitter tagging Apple CEO Tim Cook and Google CEO Sundar Pichai. India leads the way in contact tracing for COVID-19: privacy-first by design, secure, robust and scalable to billio… https://t.co/rIAYteUybr— Amitabh Kant (@amitabhk87) 1586608665000Citing the example of the app, a World Bank report released on Sunday said innovative solutions could greatly help educate and track contagion across the populations at large. For safety against Covid-19, users can download Aarogya Setu app. Please download and share it using the below links: iOS: https://apps.apple.com/in/app/aarogyasetu/id1505825357Android: https://play.google.com/store/apps/details?id=nic.goi.aarogyasetu“Digital technologies can also be used to monitor the spread of Covid-19. Such initiatives, largely voluntary, have been successful in helping combat the pandemic in East Asia. Incentives also can be provided to those who report symptoms. India recently launched an app, Aarogya Setu, that uses location data from persons’ smartphones to tell users if they have been near someone who tested positive for Covid-19,” said the South Economic Focus report of the World Bank. It's time to mask up and stay safe: Join TOI's #MaskIndia campaign“Privacy concerns can be dealt with by legislating sunset clauses on tracking systems. The region houses many poor and uneducated households that are nevertheless tech-savvy, and the innovative solutions technology could greatly help educate and track contagion across the populations at large,” the report said. Kant said this was a world-class app aimed at helping curb the spread of the disease. “The app has been developed with a whole of India approach and has been possible with public-private partnership with the best expertise,” Kant told TOI. More on Covid-19Coronavirus pandemic: Complete Coverage21-day lockdown: What will stay open and what won'tHow to quarantine yourself at homeTrust the newspaper for your daily verified newsThe government has been on a drive to popularise the app and has explained that adequate precautions have been taken with regard to privacy. Legal experts also said there are three features that have been built into Aarogya Setu to preserve privacy. “First, personal information is de-identified at registration so that thereafter the app only uses a unique device identity to identify you, not your name or any other personal information. Second, the information that the app collects— those you come in contact with and your location information—is kept on the phone by default. It is only sent to the NIC servers when you have either come in contact with an infected person or where your probability of being infected is high,” Rahula Matthan, partner at legal consulting firm Trilegal told TOI. “Finally, data that is collected by the app, both that which remains on your device and which has been uploaded to the servers are purged on a regular basis,” said Matthan,||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/with-aarogya-setu-app-india-has-shown-the-way-says-world-bank/articleshow/75113753.cms||Surojit Gupta
April 13, 2020||India||Lockdown delayed to oust Cong govt in MP: Kamal Nath||NEW DELHI: Former Madhya Pradesh chief minister Kamal Nath on Sunday alleged that the Modi government delayed preventive measures against coronavirus only to ensure that his government was toppled in Bhopal, underlining that the lockdown was announced hours after Shivraj Singh Chouhan took oath as chief minister last month. “What started on March 4 culminated on March 23 when Chouhan took oath and the prime minister on March 24 announced the lockdown. It was delayed to bring down the MP government of Congress,” he said. He said it was the reason why coronavirus had spread wide in the country and why MP was the worst hit with over 46 health department officials, including the principal secretary, health, testing positive for the pandemic. Addressing a Congress press conference, Nath said, “Chronology of events prove that it is not rocket science to understand why measures like lockdown were delayed.” He added that Rahul Gandhi had urged the government to get cracking as early as on February 12. Nath said the MP assembly speaker announced adjournment of the House on March 16 for 10 days because of coronavirus while his government had started taking strong steps against the pandemic. But the Centre refused to adjourn Parliament lest it justified the assembly’s decision, he added. The Congress leader said putting politics before the pandemic had cost the country a lot and the true picture of the spread of the virus had not emerged because of limited testing focused in urban areas. He said the Centre was making excuses for shortage of preventive gear and testing kits but one should look at when the orders for these equipment were placed. “Those who gave the orders first would be delivered first,” he argued. Nath said the Chouhan government was working without a cabinet or a health minister or a home minister in such critical times, calling it abdication of responsibility by BJP.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/lockdown-delayed-to-oust-cong-govt-in-mp-kamal-nath/articleshow/75113767.cms||---
April 13, 2020||India||As 444 from Australia fly home, US nationals prefer to stay back||NEW DELHI: As Australia repatriated 444 of its nationals on a special flight from New Delhi to Melbourne over the weekend, many others, particularly from the US, are opting to remain here, as US becomes the country worst hit by Covid-19. Earlier this week, US officials said a number of American nationals preferred to remain in India even though the US state department was running special flights to take stranded Americans back home. US President Donald Trump tweeted that over 50,000 people had been taken back. Coronavirus pandemic: Live updatesBut a number of Americans are clearly opting to stay back. In a briefing with journalists in Washington DC earlier this week, US state department official Ian Brownlee said, “We had multiple thousands when we put in India the call out for expressions of interest in a flight, and yet over this weekend, our staff in India literally cold-called 800 people asking if they wanted to get on a flight today. We got 10 positive responses, 10 out of 800 calls. So that’s just an indication of the uncertainty of some of these numbers we’re looking at." He said they were tracking 24,000 US nationals still in India. Damu Ravi, MEA’s additional secretary and in charge of the Covid-19 response, told journalists the MEA had facilitated the repatriation of 20,473 foreign nationals from India. More on Covid-19Coronavirus pandemic: Complete Coverage21-day lockdown: What will stay open and what won'tHow to quarantine yourself at homeTrust the newspaper for your daily verified newsThe UK plans to run 12 more charter flights this week from Amritsar, New Delhi, Mumbai, Goa, Chennai, Hyderabad, Kochi, Bengaluru, Ahmedabad and Kolkata. In the first round of flights last week, out of 35,000 registered Britons in India, around 20,000 opted to return. It's time to mask up and stay safe: Join TOI's #MaskIndia campaignUK minister of state for South Asia and the Commonwealth Tariq Ahmad was quoted as saying, “We are doing all we can to get thousands of British travellers in India home. This is a huge and complex operation which also involves working with the Indian government to enable people to move within India to get on these flights. Over 300 people arrived from Goa on Thursday morning, 1,400 more will arrive over the Easter weekend and these 12 flights next week will bring back thousands more.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/as-444-from-australia-fly-home-us-nationals-prefer-to-stay-back/articleshow/75113781.cms||---
April 13, 2020||Business||‘Don’t use lockdown time in moratorium to declare NPAs’||MUMBAI: To balance the rights of two borrowers defaulting since January 15, 2020 and ICICI Bank, during the Covid-19 crisis, the Bombay high court on Saturday said the period of moratorium during which there is a lockdown will not be used to compute the 90-day NPA declaration period. HC said its order was not to be considered a precedent and is “not a backward extension of the moratorium to January 2020”. “It is predicated on, and only on, the current lockdown period which makes normal functioning impossible,” said Justice Gautam Patel, who passed the order through video conference, given the April 15 deadline of NPA tag to trigger. If the lockdown is lifted before the moratorium deadline of May 31, then the protection available to two real estate development firms — Transcon Iconica and Transcon Skycity — will cease to exist and computing of remainder of the 90 days will start. The firms had taken loans from ICICI Bank and had defaulted on instalments due in January and February 2020. They will have to pay the January instalment within 15 days of the lockdown being lifted and the February instalment within a further period of three weeks. Their counsel Birendra Saraf had sought orders to restrain ICICI Bank from declaring their accounts and facilities as NPA. His plea was period of moratorium from March 1 to May 31 be excluded while computing 90 days provided by law before declaring a defaulter as an NPA.With covid-19 and lockdowns directed by government, the Reserve Bank of India (RBI) had provided a moratorium from March 1 to May 31. For any instalment due after March 1, the moratorium fully applies. The question before the HC was if there was a default that triggered the beginning of a countdown for the 90-days to NPA declaration, would the countdown timer stop on March 1, 2020 and resume only after lockdown or moratorium ends? Saraf argued that the entire moratorium period must be excluded, else he moratorium itself would be meaningless. But ICICI Bank counsel Virag Tulzapurkar opposed this and said, “broad-based declaration…by a Court could have all manner of unintended consequences in respect of other borrowers...'' Tulzapurkar argued that the moratorium was not available to instalments which fell due prior to 1/3/20. Justice Patel in a 30-page order, said “the whole of the moratorium period is, evidently, excluded for all amounts that fall due during that moratorium period.’’||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/dont-use-lockdown-time-in-moratorium-to-declare-npas/articleshow/75113293.cms||Swati Deshpande
April 13, 2020||Patna||Lockdown: BJP neta beaten up by police in Patna||PATNA: BJP’s state media incharge Rakesh Kumar Singh was allegedly hit with sticks by two policemen near R Block under the Kotwali police station area in the city around 6.30am on Sunday when he was going to buy flour from a general store. “I told the cops that the shop remains open only till 9am. However, a constable came out of the police vehicle and hit me with a stick,” Singh said, adding he received injuries on his right hand and left thigh. “Another police officer came out of the patrolling vehicle and hit me with stick. My cellphone fell from my hand and got destroyed,” he added. SHO of Kotwali police station Ramashankar Singh said an inquiry was orederd into the incident. Earlier, two Patna Municipal Corporation sanitation workers and a traffic police constable were also thrashed by policemen in the city for defying lockdown.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/bjp-neta-beaten-up-by-police-in-city/articleshow/75111320.cms||Debashish Karmakar
April 13, 2020||Vadodara||Woman booked for travelling to Dabhoi||Vadodara: Health officials and police in Dabhoi went into a tizzy on Saturday evening when a woman from Bahucharaji Road in Nagarwada reached Dabhoi town along with her three children. Ayesha Pathan was sent back by police and an offence was registered against her at Dabhoi police station. Police said Pathan and her three children boarded a mini pickup van used for transporting vegetables. The van driver took internal roads where police presence is negligible to ensure that the woman reached her parents’ home in Jantanagar in Dabhoi town. “We received information that some five people had arrived at Pathan’s father Habib Pathan’s house so our team along with a medical officer and health worker went there to check,” said a police official. “On reaching there, we learned that Pathan had come from the red zone in Vadodara,” the police official added. When interrogated Pathan said that she had come to meet her parents. Dabhoi police then contacted medical officials in Vadodara city to inform that they are sending her back and she be kept under quarantine. She was booked for violating public notification and committing a negligent and malignant act likely to spread infection of disease dangerous to life and under Epidemic Diseases Act. “It is surprising that Pathan’s husband Riyaz Khan is a cop and her father is a retired police constable yet they did not object to her movement during lockdown,” another police official said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/woman-booked-for-travelling-to-dabhoi/articleshow/75111250.cms||---
April 13, 2020||Patna||Provide ration to the poor: ML||PATNA: The CPI(ML) and its affiliated organisations on Sunday organised a 10-minute ‘thali clanging’ demonstration at district headquarters and villages, besides the eight-hour fast across the state to demand ration for the deprived sections, farmers and daily wagers. “We are committed to fighting against coronavirus outbreak. Our party supporters followed the social distancing norms during the clanging of thalis, but also gave a clear message that they want ration,” state CPI(ML) secretary Kunal said, adding the party’s MLAs also sat on eight-hour fast at their houses. He said the lockdown has resulted in lack of work engagement for agricultural and construction workers, while the poor like the Mushahar caste people in several districts were faced with starvation-like situation. “The central and state governments should ensure that the poor, daily wage earners and lower middle-class sections are provided with ration. The fight against coronavirus outbreak is absolutely necessary, but equally important is provision of ration for them,” Kunal said. Kunal, along with some others, including Saroj Choubey, sat on fast at the party’s state headquarters, while senior functionary Dhirendra Jha at Gardanibagh and others like K D Yadav, Meena Tiwari, former MLA Rajaram Singh and Shashi Yadav at their homes. Similarly, of the three CPI(ML) MLAs, Sudama Prasad sat on fast at Ara, Satyadeo Ram at Siwan and Mahboob Alam at Katihar.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/provide-ration-to-the-poor-ml/articleshow/75111516.cms||Abhay Singh
April 13, 2020||Varanasi||125 migrants test -ve, sent home after 14-day quarantine||Varanasi: The fear of coronavirus outbreak due to large scale influx of migrant workers from Delhi and NCR between March 28 and 31 eased a bit as 125 labourers hailing from the city and villages in Varanasi district tested negative for Covid-19 infection and were sent home from the shelters where they had been kept. Officials are waiting for further instructions from government on 511 migrant labourers, who belong to other districts and states, and have tested negative. District magistrate Kaushal Raj Sharma told TOI on Sunday, “A total of 636 migrant workers who had arrived from Delhi and NCR between March 28 and 31 were quarantined in five shelter homes set up in two private schools and one Jawahar Navodaya Vidyalaya at Rajatalab and Pindra areas. Of them, 125 who are from city and nearby villages tested Covid-19 negative and their 14-day quarantine had completed.” “They were sent to their homes. One bus each was arranged at Rajatalab and Pindra to drop them home. Before their departure, they were made to fill quarantine form and were also given instructions for taking all precautions for next 14 days at home,” Sharma added. One shelter home at a private school in Pindra has been closed, the district magistrate said. “The reports of the samples of 511 migrant workers hailing from other districts of east UP and neighbouring states like Bihar have also arrived and they have also tested negative,” said Sharma. They are still in the shelter homes. “We have informed the higher authorities about them also and are waiting for directions on the checks and procedure to be followed for sending them home. The travel arrangements for them will be made as per the directives of the government,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/varanasi/125-migrants-test-ve-sent-home-after-14-day-quarantine/articleshow/75112176.cms||---
April 13, 2020||Rajkot||Sakkarbaug Zoo gives privacy to big cats, four more cubs born||Rajkot: In what comes a straight lift from some vintage royal movie, the pride of Gir, Asiatic lion couples, too were given the rare luxury of having their own ‘ekant grih’ (read enclosure) inside the Sakkarbaug zoo. After the royal couple gave birth to four healthy cubs on Saturday, thus ended another round of successful mating experiment conducted by the Junagadh zoo authorities. This is not just one instance, but a litany of 21 lion cubs born in the last 10 days in the zoo are testimony to its successful captive breeding programme. Of these lot, 18 cubs are born in Sakkarbaug zoo itself. The reasons behind the happy maternity story is a long drawn struggle by the zoo authorities who have gone by the book and behavioural management to draw the ferocious couples together in a happy union. It all begins with the zoo authority first finding a mate for the lion and the lioness from different areas. The pairs are then kept in separate enclosures to create a conducive environment for the animals. While they were fed at regular intervals, the human presence was kept minimal to create a wild-like ambiance within the enclosure. Working on the lion pairs’ behavioural engagement, the zoo authorities also included a few colourful balls to engage them in a playful mood and dispel any natural odium between the opposite sexes. “While the lioness is brought from the jungle, a few males are zoo inmates. We undertook proper management for successful mating and removed all disturbances near their enclosure, including curtains to avoid human eyes,” said Abhishek Kumar, director, Sakkarbaug zoo. The forced proximity gave desired results when the two lions became comfortable in each other’s company and even started playing inside the enclosure. The zoo officials installed CCTV cameras inside the enclosure and much to their delight registered the first flash of victory when the male tried to cuddle the female while they were both playing inside the enclosure. According to the authorities, the 21 cubs are being taken care of in Sakkarbaug zoo at present, including the rare birth of six cubs to a lioness. Three cubs have been brought here from Ambardi safari park. They are weighed daily for assessing their growth and fed supplements if they need a milk replacement.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/sakkarbaug-zoo-gives-privacy-to-big-cats-four-more-cubs-born/articleshow/75112893.cms||Nimesh Khakhariya
April 13, 2020||Business||PC shipments crash to a four year low||Chennai: The demand for personal computers soared during January-March period driven by remote working and learning requirements from lockdown measures around the world. But the crisis also caused severe delays in production and logistical issues leading to a worldwide shipment to fall 8%, the sharpest since Q1 of 2016. In the first quarter, vendors shipped 53.7 million desktops, notebooks and workstations. “The PC industry has been boosted by the global Covid-19 lockdown, with products flying off the shelves throughout Q1,” said Rushabh Doshi, research director at Canalys. “But PC makers started 2020 with a constrained supply of Intel processors, caused by a botched transition to 10nm nodes. This was exacerbated when factories in China were unable to reopen after the Lunar New Year holidays. The slowdown in supply met with accelerated demand, as businesses were suddenly forced to equip a newly remote workforce, placing urgent orders for tens of thousands of PCs. Children, too, needed their own PCs, as schools closed and lessons went online. The urgency of demand from both the consumer and commercial sectors, combined with the shortage of supply, meant device cost was no longer the key consideration. Instead, speed of supply was the most important factor.” During the quarter, tech biggies including Infosys, TCS, Wipro and Cognizant moved nearly 3 million of its employees to work from home as companies implemented social distancing amidst lockdown announced in India during the last week of March. The top vendor rankings remained stable, with Lenovo still leading the PC market with 12.8 million units shipped. HP came second with 11.7 million units, followed by Dell with 10.5 million units. Of the top five, Apple was hit hardest in Q1, as its shipments fell by over 20% to 3.2 million units, the report by Canalys said. PC vendors will report healthy profits over the next few weeks, with operating margin percentages reaching all-time highs. Many other home technologies have seen similar popularity, including headphones, webcams, printers and monitors. Home-working software also exceeded expectations, including office, collaboration, virtual desktop, remote access and security. AMD, in particular, is doing well, increasingly being accepted as a competitive alternative to Intel by businesses as well as consumers, the report said. With production constraints in China easing, few businesses will be spending on technology for their offices, while many homes will have been freshly equipped. “With factories now reopened and virtually up to full speed in China, PC vendors will face a challenge to manage supply chain and production correctly over the next three to six months,” wrote Ishan Dutt, analyst at Canalys in that note.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/pc-shipments-crash-to-a-four-year-low/articleshow/75113026.cms||Rajesh Chandramouli
April 13, 2020||Kolkata||Crowds out to visit temples||Kolkata: Citizens on Sunday stepped out to the markets to stock up since the lockdown has been extended till April-end. Additionally, it being the day of Neel Shasthi, there were many who went out to buy items needed for the puja, or visit temples. However, cops tried to ensure strict compliance to physical distancing and lockdown protocols. They sealed temples, put up barricades outside markets, set up pickets in neighbourhoods where complaints of non-compliance had surfaced and spent the day patrolling streets and alleys, asking people to stay home. Officers posted outside major temples across the city stopped and turned away those who crowded around to observe the rituals of Neel Sasthi or Charak Puja. And smaller, road-side temples remained completely shut. “We cannot allow a large congregation at any cost, not even for a few minutes. We are taking all possible measures to decongest markets, religious places and are breaking up unnecessary gatherings. Drones are also being used to track down violators and book them accordingly,” said an officer. A fresh diktat was issued to police stations to cut down on market operation times. Cops are also in talks with the KMC to allow not more than one market in one area. On Sunday, people without masks on were stopped at the gates of some markets, like Behala Bazar, while in Kasba and Lake Market, cops ensured that no shop other than those covered under the essential services or those that provided concessions were open. “With markets remaining open for most part of the day, they were often becoming hangout zones. Hence, we have been asked to allow private morning markets to remain open for five hours, from 6am to 11am, and evening markets for three hours,” said an officer. At Jorasanko, Posta and Bowbazar, cops closed down any tea stall and stationery shop that opened, and teams were deployed to scan lanes and bylanes with drones. On Saturday, the cops arrested 628 people and seized 84 cars. On Sunday, the arrest figure was 638 with 107 vehicles seized.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/crowds-out-to-visit-temples/articleshow/75113109.cms||Tamaghna Banerjee
April 13, 2020||Kolkata||Mkts get separate slots for vendors, customers||Kolkata: With the lockdown entering its most ‘crucial and critical’ phase, Kolkata Police has geared up to enforce social distancing and maintain tighter vigil against those stepping out unnecessarily. On Sunday, police carried out intensive campaigns across city markets on social distancing and use of masks. From Monday, cops might control access to the markets too. Police on Sunday carried out surveys and demarcated slots for vendors and slots for customers. “Even though the price of vegetables, fish and chicken rose a bit, the supply chain was robust,” said Kamal Dey, president, West Bengal Vendors’ Association. In the critical zones, where a number of people had tested positive for Covid-19, market timings have been changed. They will now stay open from 6am to 11am and customers need to follow safety measures. “There will be no issue with supply of essentials. We have enough stock to last a month and the supply line has improved too,” said Biswanath Agarwal, general secretary of Posta Merchants’ Association. Cops also met local vendors at unorganized markets and discussed how to enforce social distancing. “We heard of a few sweet shops opening in the morning, flouting the rules, but we have warned them and taken action against a few. We have enforced social distancing in a few big markets and we followed them up on Sunday. Strict action will follow from Monday,” said an officer. The officers said they were also closing down multiple gates of major markets, like Gariahat, Maniktala, New Alipore and Patuli, and want to do the same at other markets, especially in the added areas where crowding has been reported in the past. “No more than 30-40 people will be allowed inside at the same time. We have deputed personnel at the gates to ensure the rule is followed,” said an officer. On Sunday, cops also begun installing wash-basins outside major markets. “We have provided soap and hand sanitizers. Anyone entering the market can wash their hands,” an officer said. Cops said they have a few other plans to be executed in the next couple of days. “During the closure, we have asked for a thorough cleaning of markets and have asked vendors to see that customers don’t touch groceries with bare hands,” another officer added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/mkts-get-separate-slots-for-vendors-customers/articleshow/75113107.cms||---
April 13, 2020||Rajkot||Leopard that attacked dog in Una bungalow caged||Rajkot: The leopard that had attacked a dog in the courtyard of a bungalow in Golden City Society of Una taluka in Gir Somnath district was caged on Saturday night. The entire incident was captured on a CCTV camera.“The moment we received a complaint, we set up a cage with a live bait in it. The leopard entered the cage lured by the bait and got trapped,” said Vira Chawda, round forest officer of Nava Bandar.The leopard had jumped the wall and entered courtyard of the bungalow owned by Mahesh Bamania in Golden City Society Friday night. The incident came to light when Bamania checked the CCTV footage on Saturday morning. The footage shows that the leopard had pounced on the dog, which started wagging its tail to appease the big cat. However, the leopard caught the dog by its throat. Before it could kill it, a vehicle happened to pass by the road, scared of which, the leopard relinquished its pray, climbed to the compound wall of the bungalow and vanished into the cover of darkness.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/leopard-that-attacked-dog-in-una-bungalow-caged/articleshow/75112828.cms||---
April 13, 2020||Vadodara||FPS shop owner from Nagarwada succumbs to Covid-19||VADODARA: City recorded its third Covid-19 death on Sunday evening when a 27-year-old man died at GMERS Medical College and Hospital at Gotri, hours after he tested positive. Bhargav Patni, a resident of Navrang Road in Nagarwada area, died at around 7.30 pm. Sources said that he had other co-morbid conditions as he was also suffering from dengue. He is the relative of two others from the area who have tested positive. Sources said that the family runs a fair price shop in Nagarwada, which has been declared as red zone since April 5. Earlier, 52-year-old Shailen Desai of Nizampura area had died on April 2. Later, 62-year-old Rekha Sheth, a resident of Tandalja Road died on April 6. The duo was admitted at SSG Hospital and had travelled to Sri Lanka. Meanwhile, the number of positive cases in the city has crossed the 100 mark within a month. With six more testing positive in 24 hours ending Sunday evening, the tally touched 101. Vadodara collector Shalini Agrawal said of the six samples that tested positive on Sunday, four were from Nagarwada-Saiyedpura, while two each were from Bahar Colony and Ajwa Road. The two cases from Bahar Colony are relatives of a 66-year-old man who had tested positive on April 9. While one 50-year-old female is the man’s niece, another 24-year-old is his granddaughter. The total number of cases from Nagarwada-Saiyedpura stretch alone has touched 88. All the cases have emerged after mass sampling of residents in this area. Of the 101 cases, 92 are under treatment. By Sunday afternoon, of the 978 samples which were tested, 828 had come negative. Three from Khambhat test positive Vadodara/ Anand: Two persons in Khambhat and one in Anklav taluka of Anand district tested positive on Sunday, taking the number of those infected to eight. In Khambhat, 33-year-old son and 62-year-old husband of a woman who tested positive on Saturday were also found infected. The patient in Navakhal village near Anklav is a 26-year-old woman who had visited Vadodara’s Nagarwada area. The gram panchayat area has been declared as a contaminant cluster. SMIMER gets ICMR nod for Covid testing Surat: SMIMER hospital run by the Surat Municipal Corporation (SMC) got the nod from Indian Council of Medical Research’s (ICMR) to test Covid-19 samples. “The infrastructure for testing capacity is being set up and training of medical staff is under way. We have collected 1,428 samples from mass sampling, of which six people have tested positive. We want to increase our testing capacity to 800 per day in the coming days,” municipal commissioner Banchhanidhi Pani said. Meanwhile, three more tested positive in the city on Sunday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/fps-shop-owner-from-nagarwada-succumbs-to-covid-19/articleshow/75112940.cms||---
April 13, 2020||Business||Top NBFCs may not get RBI reprieve||MUMBAI/NEW DELHI: The country’s top NBFCs that are actively monitored by the RBI have around Rs 65,000 crore of bank debt maturing in three months and may not get any reprieve via a moratorium on loans. While some NBFCs and microfinance institutions (MFIs) have been aggressively lobbying with the RBI and the government on extending the moratorium facility from banks, official sources in the Capital said, the regulator had analysed the business of the top NBFCs, and is closely monitoring the top 100, and concluded that most are not facing a cash crunch at present. A sample survey of MFIs has shown there are no major mismatches. The RBI is undertaking a deeper analysis in this segment. “The RBI is keeping close tabs on both segments and if there is a need in future then it will take steps. We don’t think anything is immediately warranted,” said a government official. As part of a special package for Covid-19, the RBI has allowed a loan moratorium for corporate and retail borrowers, but the Indian Banks’ Association has excluded finance companies. According to a bank CEO, a blanket relief package for NBFCs is not warranted because banks are already supporting them and the ones that are now facing liquidity problems are having governance issues. “Since October 2018, there have been initiatives to help NBFCs deal with their liquidity issues and it is only those entities which have not been able to get any money that are facing problems,” the bank chief said. Besides banks, NBFCs have to repay non-bank lenders, who are not offering them a moratorium. Industry players, however, said there are some large players involved and any adverse impact on them could destabilise the entire financial sector. The RBI has announced a Rs 1-lakh-crore refinance support for banks that invest in the debt of NBFCs and corporates through a targeted long-term repo operation (TLTRO). Half of this is reserved for fresh debt and will help better-rated NBFCs raise funds from banks. In a memorandum, lobby group CII has sought priority for NBFCs in the LTRO auctions and demanded a minimum dedicated allocation of Rs 1 lakh crore for the segment during the first quarter. Alternatively, it has asked the government to guarantee fund-raising by NBFCs or get the RBI to buy their papers. Further, it has demanded an increase in the partial guarantee from Rs 5 crore to Rs 30 crore.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/top-nbfcs-may-not-get-rbi-reprieve/articleshow/75113277.cms||Sidhartha
April 13, 2020||Ahmedabad||Housing societies set up supply chain for essentials||Amid the lockdown, some housing societies in the city have been providing all basic requirements to members on their premises. Residents of Iscon Platinum and Aarohi Crest in Bopal don’t need to step out of their societies to get vegetables, fruits, groceries or even confectionery items. The system has been in place since the lockdown was imposed. All basics available The sprawling Iscon Platinum township in Bopal area of the city has been locked down internally with no guests allowed and only one gate operational. But the 300-odd residents of the society get everything they need inside the society itself. From vegetables and fruits to groceries and other requirements, every little need of the residents is met within the society. A few members go to the supermarket and purchase vegetables, fruits, groceries and other essentials, which are then sold within the society. A truck from the superstore nearby also arrives at the society to deliver orders. “We have put in place a system because of which members need not go out for anything whatsoever,” said Mihir Mehta, a member of the managing committee of the society. “Every requirement of members is fulfilled within the society itself.” A few families of the society have also started selling cooked food to others who need such a service. “Cooked food is delivered outside the building’s lobby,” Mehta said. An in-house storeNone of the 1,000-odd members of Aarohi Crest, a residential society of south Bopal, needs to set foot outside the society for basic necessities. The society procures grains, groceries, vegetables and fruits, milk, dairy products, and snacks at wholesale rates and sells these to its members. Members also place orders for bakery products and confectionery items and these are delivered the next day inside the society. The clubhouse of the residential society has in fact become a store with members able to get almost everything that they require during the lockdown. The managing committee has been procuring all items in bulk and these are then packed into smaller quantities of 500 grams and 1 kg, filled into paper bags and sold to members. The clubhouse store remains open from 8am to 11am and 5pm to 7pm every day. “After the lockdown came into force, we noticed several members were rushing out to buy things,” said Sanjiv Shah, the chairman of the managing committee of the society. “They are now being sold these essentials within the society on a no-profit basis.” When the lockdown came into force, the society got in touch with wholesalers of grain, pulses, flour and all other groceries, said Nishith Vasavada, the secretary of the managing committee. “In the same way, stocks of vegetables and fruits, snacks, and other requirements also are being procured,” Vasavada said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/housing-societies-set-up-supply-chain-for-essentials/articleshow/75113646.cms||Meghdoot Sharon
April 13, 2020||Patna||Bihar: Kishanganj SHO among three cops suspended||PATNA: The station house officer (SHO) and two constables of Kishanganj Town police station were suspended on Sunday for causing serious injuries to potato wholesale dealer Fakhre Alam. Alam (48) of Halim Chowk is undergoing treatment at a private hospital in Siliguri where his condition is stated to be critical. SHO Rajesh Kumar Tiwari was suspended on the complaints lodged by Alam’s relatives. It is alleged that the SHO and two constables signalled Alam to stop on Friday when he was returning home on a two-wheeler from his shop at the local market. When he didn’t stop, the cops chased him. Alam fell on the ground and received serious head injuries in the process. Alam was rushed to the Sadar hospital from where he was referred to a hospital in Siliguri for better treatment. Taking a serious note of the matter, IG (Purnia range) Vinod Kumar directed SP Kumar Ashish to conduct an investigation and take action against the erring cops. Kishanganj DSP Anwar Javed was asked to probe into the allegations. On Saturday, Javed submitted his report to the SP who, in turn, removed Tiwari and the two constables and initiated departmental proceedings against the SHO. In a similar incident, a Begusarai grocery shopowner was brutally assaulted by the policemen for allegedly defying lockdown at Suryapura Bazar under Bhagwanpur police station. The cops also ransacked his shop. A senior police officer posted at the police headquarters said the police personnel have been asked to enforce the lockdown but it didn’t mean to thrash people. “Instructions have been issued to lodge FIR and initiate legal action for flouting lockdown and not to beat mercilessly,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/kganj-sho-among-three-cops-suspended/articleshow/75111502.cms||Ramashankar
April 13, 2020||Patna||Bihar: Online classes for vocational courses start at PPU colleges||PATNA: Colleges affiliated to Patliputra University (PPU) have started online classes for the students of vocational courses in particular following complete lockdown to prevent spread of coronavirus. “The uncertainty over resumption of normal academic activities at the colleges under the present circumstances prompted us to introduce online classes for students,” PPU vice-chancellor (VC) Gulab Chand Ram Jaiswal said. Jaiswal said the university was keen to provide maximum support to students and help them prepare for ensuing examinations. “Students had requested college principals to start online classes at least for a few vocational courses so that they can prepare for the next semester examinations due in June or July this year,” he added. B D College principal Sanjoy Kumar said the college has started online classes for the students of MBA third semester. The online classes for human resource (HR), marketing and finance papers are being conducted under the supervision of the college’s MBA department coordinator Sanjeev Nath. According to Nath, teachers are conducting online classes through power point presentations. “Assignments are being given to students online. There are six teachers in the MBA department,” he said. A N College principal S P Sahi said the college has no option but to switch over to online classes for the students of vocational courses. “Hundreds of MBA and MCA students are availing online classes. Teachers of these two postgraduate departments are in constant touch with students,” he added. B S College-Danapur principal Pravin Kumar said the college has started online classes for the students of MBA, MCA, BBA and BCA. Coordinators of these courses are uploading at least two lectures per week. “Teachers get feedback from students and clear their doubts,” he said. M D College-Naubatpur principal Kanhaiya Prasad Sinha said online classes have started for about 40 BCA students only. B D College’s MBA students Rakhi Kumari, Vaishnavi and Manisha said they were getting full support from the teachers. “The subject teachers also clear our doubts,” they said. Teachers to contribute to CMRF: Members of the Patliputra University Teachers’ Association (PPUTA) have taken a unanimous decision to donate their one-day basic salary to the Chief Minister Relief Fund (CMRF) to support the government’s fight against coronavirus in the state. PPUTA president A K Singh Thakur said teachers of 25 constituent and two other minority colleges of the university would contribute to the CMRF.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/online-classes-for-vocational-courses-start-at-ppu-colleges/articleshow/75111353.cms||Kumod Verma
April 13, 2020||Patna||26 patients discharged, no fresh Covid-19 positive case in Bihar||PATNA: Altogether 26 out of the 64 Covid-19 patients in the state so far have been discharged, including six on Sunday, from different hospitals as no fresh coronavirus cases were reported in Bihar till late evening. Principal secretary (health) Sanjay Kumar said four persons got discharged from Nalanda Medical College and Hospital (NMCH) at Patna and two others from Gopalganj Sadar hospital. “Altogether 37 persons are undergoing treatment for the virus at different health facilities. No new Covid-19 case was reported in Bihar on Sunday,” he said. NMCH superintendent Dr Nirmal Kumar Sinha said the sample results of four patients were negative on Saturday night. “All of them were discharged on Sunday morning. Two of them — one male (23) and another female (40) — were from Gaya, one male each from Siwan (33) and Nalanda (36). All of them had come in contact with Covid-19 positive cases with travel history,” he said. “So far, 14 Covid patients got cured and discharged from the hospital. Eight active cases are still under treatment,” Sinha said. State nodal officer for Covid-19, Dr Ragini Mishra, said total 380 samples have been tested at different laboratories in Bihar on Sunday and 345 were found negative. “Of the 345 samples, 153 were tested at Rajendra Memorial Research Institute of Medical Sciences (RMRI), Patna, 101 at Indira Gandhi Institute of Medical Sciences, Patna, 55 at Darbhanga Medical College and Hospital and 36 at Patna Medical College and Hospital. The results of 35 samples from PMCH are awaited,” she said. According to health department, total 7,083 samples have been tested in Bihar since March 22. Earlier on later Saturday night, three more Covid-19 positive cases were reported from Nawada and Begusarai, taking the total in state to 64. The principal secretary said a 16-year-old girl from Nawada and two men aged 40 and 63 years from Begusarai tested positive after coming in contact with Covid-infected person. Sanjay said their contact tracing was being done to ascertain how they contracted the virus.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/26-patients-discharged-no-fresh-positive-case-in-state/articleshow/75111307.cms||Faryal Rumi
April 13, 2020||Patna||Patna: Easter Sunday celebrations remain a family affair||PATNA: There was no traditional church gathering for Mass vigil as the Christians performed personal prayer services in small family gatherings as well as online on Easter Sunday celebrations, which marks the resurrection of Lord Jesus after his death on Good Friday. The great vigil of Easter started with Mass prayer from Saturday midnight with special prayer services held at Patna Women’s College. Patna Archbishop William D’Souza led the prayer services and lit the Paschal candle. The small cathedral reverberated with hymns — ‘Gloria’ with jingles and bell chimes. According to the New Testament, Jesus died on the cross on Good Friday and resurrected three days after his burial. His resurrection is celebrated as Easter Sunday, which also marks the end of Lent, the 40-day period of fasting which begins on Ash Wednesday. Easter is the celebration of victory over death, of new life. “Mass vigil is the most sacred and joyful night. Jesus resurrects on this day and he is alive in all of us. There is a purpose of this life and we need to understand it. If you believe that God is with you then he will definitely help us in this pandemic situation, when everyone is terrified. We need to trust God and his mercy,” said William D’Souza Abhishek Patrick, a resident of Hajiganj in Patna City, said his family attended Mass vigil and Easter prayer through live streaming. “Later, we prepared a cake and sumptuous food and enjoyed the meal. The celebration was little different this time, because we could not participate in several things,” he said. Edwin Lawrence of Digha said she really missed the Saturday vigil and the morning get-together with family and friends. “I talked to my relatives and friends through videoconferencing after attending the live prayer ceremony,” she said. The other devotees also missed the Mass gathering. Rosylyn, another resident of Digha area, said she lit the candles and prayed to God to save the world from Covid pandemic.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/easter-sunday-celebrations-remain-a-family-affair/articleshow/75111391.cms||Faryal Rumi
April 13, 2020||Rajkot||Discrimination in times of lockdown||Rajkot: “My parents ensure that my brother wears a mask whenever he goes out to buy something. But when I have to go, they don’t care if I go without mask.”These and many such complaints depicting the deeply patriarchal mindset of the society are flooding the counselling helpline dedicated to students started by Saurashtra University in Rajkot. Girls are pouring their hearts out to counsellors narrating the discrimination that they are subjected by their own family members even in such difficult times of global pandemic.Some girls even told the counsellors that they are better off in hostels as they get more freedom. “My parents ensure that my brother uses sanitizer and washes his hands. But I’m never advised with such compassion. Is coronavirus not dangerous for girls?,” said a student to a counsellor.Saurashtra University started this centre on Thursday to provide psychological assistance to the students during the lockdown period, specially those who suffer from anxiety about exams or results. However, the professors of psychology departments are getting more complaints from girls experiencing discrimination at home for the last three weeks. Yogesh Jogsan, head of psychology department, SU said, “This is a reflection of treatment meted out to girls and the preference given to males in our society. The issue has been only become more pronounced now.”A college girl, who studies in another state, told a woman counsellor on Friday that she feels her hostel is a heaven. “When I used to come home for a few days, I felt good. However, now that I am living with the entire family for three weeks, I can feel the importance given to my brother.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/discrimination-in-times-of-lockdown/articleshow/75112780.cms||Nimesh Khakhariya
April 13, 2020||Jaipur||24-hour shifts for these virus vanquishers||Jaipur: For once a war is being fought to save lives. The 24-hour war room set up by the district administration is a reflection of the hours the officers and their foot soldiers put in to ensure that the lockdown is total and also that people don’t get inconvenienced. The commander of the operations is district collector Joga Ram. “There are no working hours. 24 hours are working hours for us now,” he said laughing as he managed to find little time to grab some lunch at 4:45 pm. The 24-hour war room (0141-2204475 and 0141-2204476), believed to be the backbone of all operations at the district collectorate, has been divided into three shifts of eight hours each. About 16 officials from various departments, including health, nagar nigam, food and civil supplies, electricity and animal husbandry are deputed in this war room for speedy redressal of complaints by people. Three officers - Om Prabha, Vishnu Goyal and Rajesh Dogiwal - manage the war room in these shifts. “On an average, the war room receives 120-150 calls per day on complaints related to food and ration and around 50-60 each day on queries pertaining to medical emergencies/requirements, ambulance, vehicle passes and other queries. These days we return home by 1 or 2 in the night. But, we are trying to give our best. Amid lockdown, it is our (administration) responsibility to ensure that poor gets food, shelter and dry ration,” said Ashok Kumar (ADM-IV), who is also in-charge of the war room. Over 2.10 lakh cooked food packets and dry ration packets are distributed to the poor, migrant workers and the needy on a daily basis with the help from 1189 civil defence personnel, municipality officials, BLOs, revenue department officials and various other organizations. “Each thana has been divided into administrative units for monitoring of works. To ensure that there is no shortage of essentials items in the market, we have set up two dedicated control rooms for food and civil supplies. Second, every police station has a food point each. People can go there as well,” said Joga Ram. Iqbal Khan (ADM-I) said, “The phone calls start around 6 am to ensure that milk supplies are not disrupted and the day continues till midnight. We receive calls even after reaching home. So far, we have procured around 90,000 packets of dry ration. We will distribute those in the next few days. Also, anybody can call the control room anytime to register his/her complaint and we will ensure the person gets food and grievances redressed.” Among the few other key officials who have been given important roles are Puroshattam Sharma, Bharti Dixit, Vijaypal Singh, Abha Jain, Birbal Singh, Shankar Saini, Rajendra Kavia, Pratibha Pareek and Mukesh Meena apart from a pool of hundreds of other officers.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/24-hour-shifts-for-these-virus-vanquishers/articleshow/75113380.cms||Sidhartha Dutta
April 13, 2020||Patna||Bihar: Scattered currency notes with coronavirus message shock Saharsa residents||PATNA: Residents of Saharsa town were taken by surprise when they found currency notes scattered in front of their houses on Saturday morning. Already scared of Covid-19 outbreak, nobody came forward to pick up the notes in the denomination of Rs 20, Rs 50 and Rs100. The locals got more apprehensive as the notes carried hand-written slips in Hindi, “Mein corona lekar aaya hun. Note le lo nahin to pareshan karunga (I have come with corona. Accept it, otherwise I will harass you).” The notes were found in Hatia Ghachhi locality under the Sadar police station area of the town. Some of the residents had spotted similar notes on Friday as well. “Initially, I did not take cognizance of it thinking it to be the handiwork of some mischievous people. But when we received similar complaints from others on Saturday again, we informed the local police,” said a resident Subhash Kumar. The notes in the denomination of Rs 20, Rs 50 and Rs100 carried the message in similar handwriting. Savita Devi, who had found the notes on Friday evening, said that she informed her husband, a retired government employee, immediately. On getting information, a police team led by Sadar police station SHO R K Singh, reached the spot and inquired about the matter. Singh, on being contacted on Sunday, said the notes had been seized and investigations are on. “Preliminary investigation suggested it to be the handiwork of some anti-social elements to create panic among the residents,” he said. The SHO said that CCTV footages are being obtained from nearby shops and commercial establishments to ascertain the identity of the man, who had scattered the notes in front of the houses of some residents. “We are keeping a close watch on such disgruntled elements who are trying to create panic among the residents under the garb of Covid-19 pandemic. They will be dealt with sternly,” SDPO Prabhakar Tiwari said. He, however, admitted that some women and children were shocked after spotting currency notes with handwritten slips. “Police have asked them not to worry. Such things do happen during pandemics,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/scattered-currency-notes-with-corona-message-shock-saharsa-residents/articleshow/75111441.cms||Ramashankar
April 13, 2020||Patna||Bihar: Drones maintain strict vigil in border areas||PATNA: The vigil along the borders with neighbouring states and Nepal has been intensified and drones were pressed into service to keep an eye on the movement of people and goods vehicles following spike in the positive Covid-19 cases in Siwan and other districts. Senior officials of border districts like Kaimur, Siwan, Gopalganj and Saran said the numbers of temporary police outposts and police personnel and magistrates has been increased in the border areas. “Temporary police outposts have been set up to check the movement in the border areas,” Kaimur district magistrate Nawal Kishore Choudhary said on Sunday. Choudhary said all entry points have been sealed and CCTVs installed at two places near Chand — one each on NH-2, Baraura and Devadiha — to check entry of vehicles from UP side. Apart from police and magistrates, medical teams have also been deputed there for screening of the driver and conductors of goods vehicles. Drones have also been pressed into service to keep a close eye on the movement of people in the villages close to the border, he said. “Some people still sneak into nearby villages. We don’t want to take any chance. So we have completely sealed all roads even in remote areas,” the DM said. Gopalganj DM Arshad Aziz said all the roads leading to UP border from Gopalganj have been barricaded. Police personnel and magistrates were working in three shifts. Additional barricades were erected near Bahadurpur, Ahiraul Daan, Dibai, Kotnar Harwa, Chaitanpatti, Dumaria and Rampur Bangra villages. The DM on Sunday issued directives to the officials concerned to enforce the lockdown strictly. Circle officer Anil Kumar said the roads linking Gopalganj with Siwan have been sealed and vehicles carrying essential commodities and having permits and valid passes were only allowed to enter the district limits. Siwan DM Amit Kumar Pandey also visited a few places close to UP border. Siwan district NCC incharge Major Kailash Pati Goswami said the NCC cadets would be roped in to assist the district authorities in maintaining social distancing to check the spread of the deadly virus. The decision to deploy NCC cadets was taken after the reports poured in from some places that social distancing was not being maintained and it posed a serious challenge to the authorities. “The cadets with full safety kits will be deployed in banks and local markets,” Goswami added. The roads leading to East Champaran, Saran, Gopalganj and Muzaffarpur have already been sealed. While 29 people from Siwan have tested positive for Covid-19, Gopalganj has registered only three cases so far. Panjwar in Siwan is stated to be the corona hotspot in Bihar. Siwan DM said six containment zones have been created to ensure complete lockdown in the district. “The situation is being monitored on a regular basis. Officials posted at the control room have been assigned to get updates from time to time,” he added. Meanwhile, the SPs of Sitamarhi and Purnia have intensified patrolling in the villages close to Nepal border to check the influx of people from the neighbouring country. “We have taken all precautionary measures to check the entry of people from Nepal into Indian territory,” Sitamarhi SP Anil Kumar said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/drones-maintain-strict-vigil-in-border-areas/articleshow/75111428.cms||Ramashankar
April 13, 2020||Kolkata||Two healthcare officials test positive for Covid-19, private hospitals quarantine staffers||KOLKATA: Two emergency medical officers — one attached with Howrah District Hospital and the other with Ramakrishna Mission Seva Pratishthan —have been admitted to MR Bangur Hospital and ID Hospital respectively after they tested Covid-19 positive on Sunday. Two private hospitals have also sent healthcare workers on quarantine after patients who were being treated for other ailments tested positive to Covid-19. While Charnock Hospital off VIP Road has sent around 40 healthcare workers into isolation and decided to seal the hospital for a thorough sanitization, S S Chatterjee Heart Centre (SSCHC) in Park Ccircus sent eight into quarantine. According to sources, a patient who had come to the VIP Road hospital for dialysis died in another hospital, but his samples tested positive for the virus. Later, four others, who underwent dialysis in the VIP Road hospital, as well as a health worker, also tested positive. While one of them is being treated in the hospital, the rest are admitted in other facilities, including M R Bangur. “That is why we need to shut the hospital to conduct a thorough sanitization,” said a hospital source. The hospital has shifted or discharged a majority of the in-patients, barring 19. Arrangements are being made to move them too. At the Park Circus hospital, an 80-year-old from Beniapukur who had come with a heart ailment tested positive to the virus. The patient was admitted on Friday and sources said doctors tried to get the swab sample tested on Friday itself but could manage it only on Saturday. The test confirmed Covid-19 on Saturday night. “I myself was involved in the patient’s treatment. when I noticed he was developing respiratory distress, we decided to send his samples,” said S S Chatterjee, former head of cardiology at SSKM Hospital. The 71-year-old founder director of SSCHC has decided to be in home isolation for the next 14 days. The patient was shifted to M R Bangur Hospital on Sunday and seven healthcare workers of the hospital have been sent into quarantine. Four others being treated in the same ICCU have been shifted to another unit while the ICCU is being sanitized. “A patient with symptoms of Covid-19 infection who turned up the hospital’s emergency on March 29 later tested positive and was treated at ID Hospital. Because of this, we had kept seven employees, including three doctors, in isolation. One doctor tested positive,” said an official of Ramakrishna Mission Seva Pratishthan.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/two-healthcare-officials-test-positive-for-covid-pvt-hospitals-quarantine-staffers/articleshow/75113100.cms||Sumati Yengkhom
April 13, 2020||Business||‘China’s loss in manufacturing could be India’s gain’||MUMBAI: As the world grapples with the unprecedented challenge of Covid-19, business leaders and management thinkers are helping navigate the crisis and plan for the future. At a webinar by Harvard Business School (HBS) and Harvard Business Publishing, members of the HBS faculty and India Inc executives brainstormed on economic uncertainties resulting from the pandemic and the opportunities for countries like India. With Western countries, looking to diversify their manufacturing from China and Japan, earmarking $2.2 billion to help its companies shift production, India could be a fertile ground for these supplies, said Sanjiv Mehta, CMD, Hindustan Unilever (HUL). He said this could well be a moment for ‘Make in India’ to shine. “If you look at the history, the impetus given to Y2K converted a challenge into an opportunity. We could significantly build on the credibility of our IT industry and prove how resilient and strong we are,” Mehta said. The second opportunity is investing in our healthcare systems. “We can also undertake reforms. It could be India’s moment once we come out of the crisis,” added Mehta, who expects the government to move its focus to livelihood, along with saving lives and announce relief measures and an economic stimulus. Mehta was speaking on the theme at the webinar: ‘Going beyond the medical impact of Covid-19’. Ravi Venkatesan, former chairman of Microsoft India, who has created a social initiative called The Global Alliance for Mass Entrepreneurship that is building a $100-million-plus SME Stabilisation Fund, said although there are a lot of people with ideas and resources, they are disconnected and working in silos. “We need to act in cohesion and learn fast to make a difference. After this crisis, everyone needs to have an entrepreneur’s mindset. What’s needed is leadership that can come from anywhere and everywhere, and it does not come with a title,” he said. HBS professors Robert Kaplan, Herman Leonard, Amy Edmondson and Ananth Raman presented a framework for leaders to navigate a low-likelihood, high-consequence crisis: ‘What to do when no one knows what to do?’ Elaborating on why teaming matters, Edmondson used insights from a case study on the Chilean miners’ crisis and how it was a team effort and leadership that ensured they were rescued. The example highlights a challenging situation, which was equally unpredictable in its outcome as the current crisis that has brought the world together. “The 33 men knew what they were up against. They knew the odds of rescue were near zero, but they teamed up and somehow coped in a hopelessly difficult situation. Engineers showed up from various arenas to team up and innovate,” said Edmondson. Edmondson said what’s required from leaders today is to create conditions for people to innovate and come up with solutions and not micro-manage, which she said would be a big mistake. Edmondson said the world needs leadership everywhere as ideas can come from unknown sources. “Leaders should ensure they put in place psychological safety so that people know candour is welcome,” she said. Suneeta Reddy, MD, Apollo Hospitals, which is working to improve the capacity of ventilators and hospital beds, said keeping up motivation levels among staff would be essential so as to retain healthcare professionals as their requirement has only grown over the days. Leonard said it is crucial to create critical incident management teams, which include people who can oversee all aspects of the event, highlighting the importance of recruiting three groups: The people who know the firm, who have the expertise, and people who understand and represent the firm’s key values. While stressing that cash is king in uncertain times, Raman said organisations need to read signals and recognise quickly which fire is going to become huge. A ‘chief worry officer’ could be useful to plan response in unprecedented situations. “Like in today’s scenario, bottlenecks can keep shifting. The headquarter team needs to take corrective action. Different approaches may be required in different schemes,” said Raman. On supply chains, Raman said the real problem leaders would encounter is what supplies need to be made and what need not be prioritised. Establishing confidence in the supply chain, he said, would be vital for it to work. Amit Chandra of Bain Capital described his collaborative, multi-pronged approach of working with a state government to improve PPE supply chains, increase testing capacity, and ensure food security through a network of NGOs.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/chinas-loss-in-mfg-could-be-indias-gain/articleshow/75113312.cms||Namrata Singh
April 13, 2020||Rajkot||Unemployed man hacks elder sibling to death in Gujarat||RAJKOT: Angry at being chastised for idling away with not-so-desirable company, a 30-year-old man allegedly killed his own elder sibling in a fit of rage along with two aides in Jharjhok village of Nakhatrana taluka in Kutch district on Saturday night. Police said the accused Mahipatsinh Jadeja hacked his elder brother Gajubha (35) with an axe, while his two aides — identified as Vinod Koli and Karsan Koli — grabbed the victim from behind. The accused have been booked on the complaint of Gajubha’s nephew Pradeepsinh. In his complaint, Pradeepsinh said that Gajubha used to chide Mahipatsinh for wasting time in company of these anti-social elements of the village. “On that fateful night, when Mahipatsinh was sitting with Vinod and Karsan in the courtyard of his house, Gajubha saw Karsan carrying a country-made pistol with him. Irked at this, Gajubha told Mahipatsinh to leave their company and start working in the farm. An altercation broke out between the two brothers in which, Vinod and Karsan too joined in. In a fit of rage, Mahipatsinh allegedly hacked his brother with the help of his co-accused,” said J K Rathod, inspector with Nakhatrana police station. Meanwhile, the police have launched a manhunt for the accused who went absconding after committing the crime.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/unemployed-man-hacks-elder-sibling-to-death/articleshow/75112850.cms||---
April 13, 2020||Madurai||Meat stalls open defying orders, rake in crowds||MADURAI: Although Madurai district administration has issued an order to close down meat and fish stalls on Sundays to prevent crowding, a few stalls were opened and operated as usual in many parts of the city saw people thronging them in large numbers with keeping physical distance. Fish and chicken stalls were open in many areas including Anna Nagar, Bibikulam, Iravathanallur, Bethaniyapuram, Tallakulam and K Pudur. The district administration had issued orders closing down meat and fish stalls on Sunday as such stalls witnessed huge gathering on the last Sunday of March. However, they are allowed to function on week days. Many were even seen come to shop as couples in the name of purchasing vegetables, meat and other essentials. Police personnel, deployed at all the junctions in the city expecting crowd movement, have registering cases and seized vehicles of those who were violating the curfew. “Some people were found going around the city roads just for jolly rides. To escape crackdown by the police, they carried some essential items. They were taken to task and their vehicles were seized,” said a police officer from Thilagar Thidar range. “We do not know how long this lockdown will go on and it would be very difficult to stay away from eating non-vegetarian food till then,” said V Shankar, a resident of Tallakulam. A health official from Madurai corporation said that there is no restriction in purchasing non-vegetarian items on weekdays, “but everyone wants to do it on Sunday. It results in chaos on the streets.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/meat-stalls-open-defying-orders-rake-in-crowds/articleshow/75113375.cms||---
April 13, 2020||Patna||Bihar: Youth’s murder sparks tension in Siwan village||PATNA: A 21-year-old youth was shot dead by unidentified armed criminals in Siwan district, police said on Sunday. The incident has created tension in the area which took place around 8.30 pm on Saturday at Nagai village under Chainpur police outpost. Police said that three youths riding a motorbike fired at one Chhathu Patel when he was talking to his friend in the village. The assailants pumped two bullets into Chhathu’s abdomen and tried to flee from the spot. However, local residents chased them. Apprehending trouble, they abandoned their bike and escaped on foot. They also fired shots in the air to keep the residents at bay. Chainpur police outpost SHO Rakesh Kumar said that Chhathu was rushed to the sadar hospital where he succumbed to his injuries. Love affair is suspected to be the reason behind the murder. Chhathu had returned to his native village from Hyderabad on January 27. The deceased’s father, Dasai Patel, told police that one Guddu Yadav of neighbouring Rampur village had threatened Chhathu with dire consequences. On Saturday, Guddu had visited Nagai and asked Chhathu not to interfere into the matter. “Guddu had an affair with a girl,” he added. The SHO said that Guddu’s role is being verified. “The mob had badly damaged the vehicle belonging to the accused,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/youths-murder-sparks-tension-in-siwan-village/articleshow/75111536.cms||---
April 13, 2020||Patna||Young Gaya IITian dies of acute respiratory disorder||GAYA: A 24-year-old IITian working for a leading private sector insurance company in Mumbai died in a private hospital at Gaya on Sunday. She was suffering from acute respiratory disorder. Her swab sample was collected and sent to Patna-based lab for coronavirus testing. She was cremated in the forenoon as per Covid-19 protocol. The IITian, an alumni of Nazareth Academy, Gaya, had done her masters in mathematics from IIT-Bombay. As per reports, the girl had reached home at Gaya from Mumbai on March 20. A few days back, she complained of breathing problem and consulted a private practitioner. As her condition deteriorated on Saturday night, she was rushed to Jai Prakash Narain Hospital where she was declared brought dead. The JPN Hospital doctors sent the body to ANMMCH for sample collection. “The deceased had asthma and used to take inhalers. She was cremated as per Covid-19 protocol and the test report is awaited. The area where she resided is being disinfected and will be sealed as a precautionary measure,” Gaya district magistrate Abhishek Singh said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/young-gaya-iitian-dies-of-acute-respiratory-disorder/articleshow/75111455.cms||Abdul Qadir
April 13, 2020||Patna||Lockdown violators to be booked under NDMA, says Bihar DGP||PATNA: The state government has decided to book those violating lockdown willingly under National Disaster Management Act (NDMA). An instruction in this regard was issued to all SPs and SSPs by DGP Gupetshwar Pandey on Saturday. The decision to book lockdown violators under NDMA was taken at a videoconferencing with all the DMs and SPs which was chaired by chief secretary Deepak Kumar. Additional chief secretary (home) Amir Subhani and DGP had also participated in the videoconferencing. “Till now, police were only seizing vehicles and making preventive arrests for violation of lockdown. However, the violators will now be booked under NDMA,” Pandey said, adding it would be ensured that chargesheets against such people are filed during the lockdown period. “We will ensure speedy trial in such cases after the withdrawal of lockdown. Names of such people will also be entered in the goonda register of police,” he said. According to the data available with the state police headquarters, at least 652 people were arrested till Saturday for defying lockdown. Altogether 862 FIRs have been registered for lockdown violation and 14,047 vehicles seized since March 24. A fine of more than Rs 3.35 crore was also realised from lockdown violators. Meanwhile, Bihar Military Police personnel have been deployed at the Covid-19 hotspots in the state to prevent people from coming out of their houses.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/lockdown-violators-to-be-booked-under-ndma-says-dgp/articleshow/75111203.cms||Debashish Karmakar
April 13, 2020||Patna||East Central Railway: Parcel trains ease supply of essential commodities||PATNA: Railways is running at least 25 special parcel trains to ensure uninterrupted supply of essential commodities during the lockdown period. At least six of these parcel trains either originate from or pass through the East Central Railway (ECR) jurisdiction. “Railways has linked operation of special parcel trains to National Train Enquiry System to check their schedule and running status,” ECR chief public relations officer (CPRO) Rajesh Kumar said. The special parcel van (00301/000302) is running between Pt Deendayal Upadhaya Junction and Saharsa via Danapur, Hajipur, Muzaffarpur, Samastipur and Khagaria. Similarly, railways is running New Delhi-Guwahati special parcel van (00401/00402) every day. “The special parcel van carrying essential commodities has stoppages at Chhapra, Barauni and Katihar in Bihar. The Amritsar-Howrah special parcel van (00463/0464) is also running daily via Patna Junction,” the CPRO said. Besides, railways is also running coal-laden rakes of goods trains from Dhanbad every day to other parts of the country to fulfil the needs of power houses located in various states, including Bihar.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/parcel-trains-ease-supply-of-essential-commodities/articleshow/75111340.cms||---
April 13, 2020||Patna||Many PU students stranded in hostels||PATNA: Sounds strange, but hundreds of students of Patna University (PU) are reportedly residing at different hostels and private lodges in the city, Covid-19 threat notwithstanding. And now, after almost three weeks of the nationwide lockdown, most of them are facing starvation. The issue of unauthorized stay of students in university hostels and some private lodges was raised by Patna University Students’ Union president Manish Yadav before PU vice-chancellor Rash Bihari Prasad Singh here on Saturday. The union leader apprised the VC of the hardships being faced by students in the absence of food and other essential items and urged him to help them at the earliest. Consequently, the university administration on Sunday asked all such students to provide the details of their institutions and residences (hostels or lodges) to PU students’ welfare dean on mobile number 9431049264 so that necessary help may be provided to them. PU registrar Manoj Kumar Mishra said if those students want to go to their native places, they should also furnish their addresses so that necessary arrangements could be made with the help of district administration for sending them home. All the colleges and postgraduate departments of PU are closed and students residing in university hostels and lodges were directed to vacate their rooms on March 16. The wardens and superintendents of all hostels had been directed to ensure complete eviction of all the hostels. Even the district administration had asked the PU officials and lodge owners to ensure complete eviction of the residential premises following the declaration of the lockdown. But, surprisingly, several students remained stranded in hostels and lodges, defying the orders of the university and district administration, said the registrar.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/many-pu-students-stranded-in-hostels/articleshow/75111379.cms||B K Mishra
April 13, 2020||Rajkot||Now, dispense soap without hand touch||Rajkot: The Bhavnagar division of the Western Railway (WR) has made an innovative soap dispenser which the user does not have to touch. There is a paddle attached to it which can be operated with a foot. “This soap dispenser will decrease the risk of Covid-19 infection manifold, as the users will be saved from hand to hand contacts,” said a release issued by the WR. Meanwhile, the WR Bhavnagar division has successfully accomplished the work of converting 72 non-AC coaches into isolation wards. The converted coaches include 13 from Bhavnagar division, 11 from Veraval division and six from from Porbandar division, said the release. Each coach has nine cabins. Every coach is equipped with oxygen cylinder, toilet, bathroom mobile charging unit and fire extinguisher. Each coach is covered with a mosquito net.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/now-dispense-soap-without-hand-touch/articleshow/75112838.cms||---
April 13, 2020||Kolkata||Cops attacked for enforcing lockdown in Kolkata's Metiabruz||KOLKATA: Three cops and a civic volunteer were injured after being attacked by a 25-strong mob when trying to enforce lockdown in Metiabruz’s Rajabagan on Friday night. The footage of the incident revealed the four were assaulted and pelted with stones and chased by the group. A bike used by the cops was also damaged. Till Sunday afternoon, cops arrested seven persons for allegedly being involved in the incident while 14 have been detained for questioning. Sources said SI Golam Gaus Khan, assistant SI Shahidullah Safui, constable Upen Chandra Burman and civic volunteer Tankur Makhal were treated at the Garden Reach State General Hospital.Police have identified the accused as Nasir Gazi, 33, Sk Abdur Rahim, 28, Md Hashim alias Hensue, 52, Nazim Gazi, 19, Sk Adbul Jafar, 21, Sk Aktar Hossain, 36, and Sk Abdur Rehman alias Hrithik, 19. All seven are local residents. According to officers, the four from Rajabagan police were returning to the police station after completing a round of information gathering in the area around 10pm. “On Slaughter House Road, they noticed a person on a scooter near the U-block. They stopped and asked him to explain where he was going. The man, however, misbehaved with the officers and began to make some wild allegations. A crowd gathered around the group and, in some time, around 20-25 locals started pushing the cops around. They even pelted stones at the officers, forcing them to retreat,” said an officer. “Once the police station got information about the incident, a large contingent arrived at the spot and conducted multiple raids in the area to nab the accused. Seven persons were arrested. We have taken the accused into police custody to ascertain the role of a few others. The situation is peaceful at present,” said DC (Port) Syed Waquar Raza. A case has been registered under IPC sections 143, 147, 148, 149, 353, 332 and 188, and sections 3 and 5 of the PDPP Act. “The accused formed an unlawful assembly with deadly weapons, like bricks and bamboos, and used criminal force upon SI GG Khan, ASI Shahidullah Safui, constable Barman and civic volunteer Tankur Makhal to deter them from discharging their duty of patrolling for awareness about the order promulgated by the government of Bengal. The accused also assaulted them with fists and blows and also by hurling bricks, resulting in injuries to their persons. The accused also damaged a motorcycle used by Rajabagan police station,” the FIR stated. Police sources said they have increased their presence at the spot. This is the second incident of attack on cops after lockdown was implemented in city, the first being reported from Entally. “We had carried out extensive raids within hours of the incident. Anyone not following the rules and assaulting cops will be nabbed,” said an officer.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/cops-attacked-for-enforcing-lockdown/articleshow/75113067.cms||Dwaipayan Ghosh
April 13, 2020||Rajkot||Gujarat: Chotila lions reach Gir sanctuary, fight for territory feared||RAJKOT: The two lions Chotila have reached the actual abode of Asiatic lions - Gir sanctuary - after walking 140 km in seven days. Forest officials now fear that the entry of these two males could result in territorial infighting in Gir. Officials and lion experts said that the duo could also be search of a female. The lions had found a new habitat in Chobari grassland near Chotila four months ago. They were radio-collared to close to When they came here, they were sub-adults (aged between 2-3 years), but now they are adult lions. While officials refused to disclose the exact location of these big cats, they confirmed that the place where they have reached has a presence of at least 25 lions. Chief conservator of forest, Junagadh, SK Shrivastava, told TOI: “There are two possibilities now. One is that they return to Chotila with a lioness or defeat some male in the sanctuary and establish their reign. There are 25-30 lions are moving in the area who are having a dominance there.” Officials believe the possibility of them returning with the lioness looks stronger as they are well settled in the grassland which also has a good prey base. Deputy conservator of forest, Morbi, Sandeep Kumar, added, “The Junagadh-Chotila-Rajkot-Amreli is the future corridor that the lions have created. This movement also defies the belief that lions inside the protected sanctuary area are no different that those that have ventured out and comfortably living in revenue areas.” The forest department has been constantly tracking the movement of these two lions through radio caller. The lions had started from Chotila taluka from where they came to Deduki in Vinchiya taluka and from there they reached Jasdan taluka near Ambaradi. The lions thereafter moved to Babra in Amreli district and from there to Gondal via Bagasara road. The lions were spotted in Bhesan taluka of Junagadh district on Saturday and by Sunday morning they reached to the sanctuary area.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/chotila-lions-reach-gir-sanctuary-fight-for-territory-feared/articleshow/75112815.cms||Nimesh Khakhariya
April 13, 2020||Business||China’s central bank takes 1% stake in HDFC||MUMBAI: China’s central bank has acquired 1% stake in the country’s largest mortgage company HDFC, according to shareholding disclosures made by the corporation. According to BSE data, as of March 31, the People’s Bank of China (PBOC) held nearly 1.75 crore shares, currently worth nearly Rs 3,000 crore. Due to the coronavirus pandemic-led global market sell-off in 2020, HDFC’s stock price has lost 32% of its value from its January 14 high of Rs 2,500 to its Thursday’s close of Rs 1,702. The investment, although unusual, is not a sudden development. HDFC management said PBOC, which has the largest financial asset holdings among the world’s central banks, has been gradually hiking its stake. “The disclosure has been made now since the stake has hit the 1% regulatory threshold. (PBOC has) been accumulating the shares over a year and are now holding 1%” said Keki Mistry, VC & CEO, HDFC. As of March 2019, it had a 0.8% stake in India’s housing finance pioneer. According to listing rules, companies are supposed to disclose the names of only those of its shareholders who hold 1% or more in the company. While PBOC was holding shares in HDFC, its name was not disclosed because it held less than 1% stake. HDFC chairman Deepak Parekh had in a webinar organised by Entrepreneurs’ Organization on Friday highlighted how Europe was wary of China. He pointed out that European countries had already made it mandatory for government approval for all acquisitions as companies are available cheap and there is a fear that China may look to take over companies. At the same time, he told entrepreneurs to focus on capital raising and not look at the price or stake. The development comes at a time when conspiracy theories of China using the coronavirus crisis to purchase global companies cheap, has been doing the rounds on social media. The PBOC picking up a 1% stake in one of the most valuable companies has provided more grist to the rumour mills. Marketmen, however, say that PBOC is operating within all regulatory guidelines and is fully entitled to invest in any Indian company. Over 70% of HDFC’s shareholders are foreign institutional investors. Large investors include Government of Singapore which has over 3% funds managed by SBI and the Life Insurance Corporation of India. In the past, there have been investors like Standard Life and Citibank, which held large stakes in the company. However, post the global financial crisis, the company's shareholding has been extremely diverse. Despite the diverse holdings, foreign investors in 2018 managed to stall plans to reappoint Bimal Jalan and Bansi Mehta on the board by voting en masse on the recommendations of proxy advisers.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/central-bank-of-china-holds-1-in-hdfc/articleshow/75113286.cms||Partha Sinha
April 13, 2020||Madurai||He ensures canines don’t starve during lockdown||MADURAI: Even as the world sees a surge of cruelties, a 50-year-old man proves that there is still room for compassion by feeding dogs left in the lurch after the deadly Corona virus forced many into lockdown. K P Marikumar, of Mahatma Gandhi Nagar, ensures that while the homeless people are taken care of by various NGOs, his canine friends should not starve to death on the street during this difficult time. He starts his day at 5 am by preparing food and carry it to a stretch between his house and Pandikovil, an area located 9 km from his house, where a good number of dogs await him. He has been doing this for the past four years, but this time he decided to feed more number of dogs as the curfew left them hungry. He also takes care of at least 30 dogs in his house and on his office premises and has a helper from his friend who lends him a car for the job. “Rice is boiled with milk and egg to make nutritious food. Apart from food, we carry water. Many dogs first drink water before they eat food. It shows that they are deprived of water,” he said. Marikumar, who runs a coaching centre for competitive exams to benefit the underprivileged, turned dog feeder four years ago. However, his kindly act was often greeted with contempt and ridicule by residents who thought feeding dogs would only help the canine population swell. Despite the criticisms, Maikumar stood for animal welfare and spread awareness about helping the helpless. He then started taking care of abandoned dogs on his office premises. “It all started with one dog, soon many dogs came in search of shelter and I could not shun them,” he said. With food sources dwindling during lockdown, he has urged people to keep water and food or at least one stray dog. “When we step out to feed dogs, we come across many dogs that are abandoned by their callous owners. Abandoning pets at this time is the worst thing to do,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/he-ensures-canines-dont-starve-during-lockdown/articleshow/75113378.cms||---
April 13, 2020||Patna||Patna: Show-cause notices issued to 18 private schools for fee hike||PATNA: Patna divisional commissioner Sanjay Kumar Agarwal has issued show-cause notices to 18 private schools for increasing school fee by more than 7% for 2020-21 academic session. The divisional commissioner has asked other private schools not to increase the school fee by more than 7% for the new academic session and follow the other norms as per the Private Schools (Fee Regulation) Act, 2019, which was passed by the legislative assembly last year. He has also asked the private schools to upload the new school fee structure to their websites. “The show-cause notices have already been sent to three private schools located at Danapur, Jaganpura and Transport Nagar based on the complaints made by the parents. The schools have been asked to reply to the notices within a week. Action will be taken against the schools if the complaints against them are found true,” Agarwal said. He said show-cause notices would be sent to 15 more private schools in Patna and Ara for violating norms. “We will send the notices to these schools on Monday,” the divisional commissioner added. “The private schools wishing to increase the fee were asked to submit documents with appropriate reasons to the Fee Regulatory Committee six months prior to the new academic session. However, no school submitted any proposal,” he said. C B Singh, director of a private school, said they increased only the tuition fee by 7%. “The parents probably got confused by the increase in school fee. We will reply to the show-cause notice within deadline,” he added. O P Singh, vice-principal of another private school, said the school followed the procedure before increasing the school fee. “The increase in fee was done on infrastructural ground and increase in salary of teachers,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/show-cause-notices-issued-to-18-private-schools-for-fee-hike/articleshow/75111557.cms||Faryal Rumi
April 13, 2020||Business||HDFC Bank board meet may discuss CEO candidates||MUMBAI: The HDFC Bank board, in its meeting on April 18, is likely to look at candidates who could be the possible successor for MD & CEO Aditya Puri, whose term comes to an end in October 2020. The names of the candidates are, however, unlikely to be announced as these have to be first approved by the Reserve Bank of India (RBI). The internal candidates who are speculated to be the contenders are Shashidhar Jagdishan, chief finance officer, Bhavesh Zaveri, group head of operations and Kaizad Bharucha, executive director, who oversees wholesale banking. Executive search firm Egon Zehnder has provided the board recommendations on external candidates. In November 2019, HDFC Bank board had cleared Jagdishan and Bharuch as executive directors. However, earlier this month the RBI had asked the bank to wait until the appointment of a new CEO before any board appointments. Last month, the bank had informed the stock exchange that it will meet on April 18 to consider the audited financial results for 2019-20 and recommendation of dividend, if any. Sources said the board is also likely to look at the recommendations of the candidates put forward by the nomination and remuneration committee of the board. Unlike other companies that are not working because of the lockdown, banks have to continue their operations as they are classified as essential services. Addressing the media in March, Puri had said that the search committee along the line had decided to look outside also, in case, there was an exceptional candidate though there were strong internal candidates. “All that has been done, the recommendations are with the search committee and soon the appropriate person who will take the bank into the future will be announced.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/hdfc-bk-board-meet-may-discuss-ceo-candidates/articleshow/75113337.cms||Mayur Shetty
April 13, 2020||Mangaluru||Khader helps PhD scholar who returned from Italy get home||MANGALURU: Mangaluru MLA U T Khader helped a Mangalurean research scholar in virology, who had arrived in India from Italy on March 22, to reach her home in Kulai from Bengaluru, on Sunday. Khader said that Shree Madhu Bhat, a PhD student at the University of Turin in Italy, had arrived in Delhi on March 22. “After the quarantine period, she was brought to Bengaluru in a special bus arranged by the central government, two days ago. However, she had no way to reach her home in Kulai in Mangaluru. Soon after learning about the same, I brought her in my car, and she reached her home safely on Sunday,” Khader said, adding that she is the daughter of retired army officer Shivaram Bhat and Shailaja Bhat, who is a professor at Vijaya College in Mulki. “The government of India made arrangements to bring 26 people from India, including Shree Madhu, who were stranded in Italy. All of them were put under quarantine in Delhi, and later the government arranged a special bus to take all of them to their respective states. The bus travelled via Uttar Pradesh, Madhya Pradesh, Andhra Pradesh, Telangana and Tamil Nadu, and reached Bengaluru on Friday. Her parents contacted the district administration for help, to bring their daughter from Bengaluru. They later got in touch with me through a common friend. I made arrangements to bring her to Mangaluru in my personal car. I have also helped two more people—Alister from Paneer and Anina Basheer—both of whom were stranded in Bengaluru, to reach Mangaluru in my car. I dropped all of them to their homes in the early morning on Sunday,” Khader said. Did MLA violate lockdown? Though people are not allowed to cross district and state borders during the lockdown, Khader crossed two district borders, to travel in his car to Bengaluru, and then return. When asked if he had violated the lockdown, Khader said he has travelling for emergency purposes. “I was in Mangaluru when I received a message from the parents of Shree Madhu Bhat. Meanwhile, I had an interview with a private news channel in Bengaluru. Hence, I asked her to meet me in Bengaluru. MLAs have to travel during emergencies, but by taking all the necessary precautions,” Khader said. He said it was the central government which made arrangements for the people stranded in Italy, to travel in a bus from Delhi, and cross all inter-state and district borders. “The government sent them to their respective states after the completion of the quarantine period, to ensure that they reach home safely,” Khader said. On bringing two others from Bengaluru to Mangaluru, Khader said, “Humanity is more important than anything else.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mangaluru/khader-helps-phd-scholar-who-returned-from-italy-get-home/articleshow/75111201.cms||---
April 13, 2020||Hubballi||60-year-old woman first to test positive for infection in Vijayapura||VIJAYAPURA: The spread of the Covid-19 infection in North Karnataka is continuing unabated, with a 60-year-old woman testing positive for novel coronavirus in Vijayapura – the first in the district. She is the 221st individual in Karnataka to test positive. Vijayapura deputy commissioner YS Patil, who confirmed the development, said that she was a resident of Vijayapura city. “She has been quarantined at the district hospital, which is now the designated Covid-19 centre in Vijayapura. Her condition is stable now. She had been having trouble breathing, and the doctors strongly suspected that she may test positive for the corona virus. Police have already started tracing her primary and secondary contacts,” said Patil. The DC said that the authorities were looking into the woman’s recent itinerary, in addition to taking the necessary steps to cordon the area in which she was a resident. Localites falling under the jurisdiction of Gol Gumbaz police station will be sealed, with entry and exit to areas such Chaparaband Galli, Badi Kaman, Hakim Chowk being declared ‘containment zone’. A helpline has been set up for residents of localities within the containment zone. A team led by Vijayapura City Corporation commissioner Harsh Shetty has been constituted to ensure the delivery of essential commodities to the residents, in addition to keeping the entire area spic and span. Currently, the district administration is closely monitoring the condition of the health of 467 people who have arrived in Vijayapura from abroad. “As many as 258 people across the district have completed the stipulated 28-day quarantine period. We have sent 110 throat swabs for medical examination, of which we have received the results of 81, and only one of them tested positive. We are still awaiting reports of 29 more patients,” Patil added. The woman’s 69-year-old husband died in Vijayapura at the district hospital on Sunday night. He had been kept in isolation at the hospital, which is the designated Covid-19 institution in the district. The DC said that the throat swabs of the husband had already been sent for medical examination, and the results were awaited. Five more test positive in district The Karnataka health department on Sunday evening confirmed that five more residents of Vijayapura had tested positive for Covid-19 in Vijayapura district. Along with the 60-year-old woman, who was the first Vijayapura resident to be confirmed with the infection, the district tally has now risen to six. Of the five individuals who were confirmed with the infection later on Sunday, three are children, respectively aged 13, 12 and 10. The two others are a 49-year-old man and 20-year-old woman.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hubballi/60-year-old-woman-first-to-test-positive-for-infection-in-vijayapura/articleshow/75110873.cms||---
April 13, 2020||Ahmedabad||Inspector away from home for 19 days, so you can stay in yours||AHMEDABAD: Inspector R G Desai of the Kalupur police station has not gone home for the past 19 days. He has been patrolling his area day and night, spending 456 hours away from his family, to ensure that people in his area stay indoors safely with their kin. Desai’s service has motivated his team members, who press on with the brutal duty hours. Kalupur has been declared a cluster quarantine zone. So Desai spends little time at the police station — he is always seen on the roads checking vehicles and nabbing violators of lockdown norms. Desai hails from Mehsana district of North Gujarat; he has been living with his family in Gandhinagar. He and his wife Jayshree have two children: a daughter, Bhagyashree; and a son, Manthan. “I work in the cluster quarantine area of Kalupur and I don’t know whether I am infected,” Desai told TOI. “I don’t want to put my family and others in my neighbourhood at risk.” On Sunday, Desai’s daughter made a video call to him and asked him to return home. She was in tears. “I told her that duty comes first. These are not normal times,” he said. “We have to stay alert as Kalupur is a sensitive area as well and anything can happen.” Desai’s colleagues said he sleeps very little. “He is also helping a constable who has tested positive for coronavirus,” a policeman said. Desai said he has two sets of uniform at the police station. “In the morning he takes a bath at the police station, gets ready for duty, and is off on the roads to check vehicles,” said another policeman of the Kalupur police station.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/inspector-away-from-home-for-19-days-so-you-can-stay-in-yours/articleshow/75113647.cms||Sarfaraz Shaikh
April 13, 2020||Patna||Patna lockdown: Feeding the poor residing in slum areas||PATNA: The nationwide lockdown is really hard on the poor people who earned their livelihood on daily wages. In this period of crisis, a voluntary organization has been feeding the poor, especially those who live in the slums. Manthan, a voluntary organization of the Patna Jesuit Society (PJS), claims to have distributed cooked meals among nearly 5,000 people in 13 Musahar hamlets in different localities of Patna since the lockdown was imposed from March 25 to contain the Covid-19 spread. Manthan director Fr Juno Sebastian SJ said the Jesuit organization distributed khichdi, rice, dal and chokha (mashed potato) among more than 5000 people belonging to the Mahadalit community. “The volunteers served food to the marginalized people living in slum areas like Rupaspur, Khagaul, Shahpur and Naubatpur in the district,” he said. “The volunteers maintain social distancing and hygiene while serving the cooked food to needy persons,” said Fr Juno. He also thanked the Indian Railway Catering and Tourism Corporation (IRCTC) for helping the Manthan to reach out to these needy people and provide them cooked food. He said the members of Manthan also distributed ration among 300 widows, elderly and sick people in 14 villages of Danapur and Bihta blocks. Fr Juno said the Manthan team, headed by him, comprised Fr Jose Karyakat, Sr Gracy and Sr Pushpika. Fr Juno said Covid- 19 has badly affected people from all walks of life. “But the people belonging to weaker sections are worst hit from this pandemic. When we reached Murgiyachak Musahari, an old woman said she had not eaten anything for the last three days. This is a very painful situation,” he recalled. He said Manthan had been working in more than 50 Musahar villages under Danapur, Phulwarisharif and Bihta blocks of Patna district. “More than 90% of the Musahars in these villages are daily wage workers and go to nearby towns for construction works, cleaning the roads and ragpicking among other works for their livelihood,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/feeding-the-poor-residing-in-slum-areas/articleshow/75111331.cms||Faryal Rumi
April 13, 2020||Rajkot||Parents of Covid-19 girl booked for defying lockdown orders||RAJKOT: The Bhavnagar police have registered an FIR against parents of a four-year-old girl from Ghogha, who tested positive for coronavirus on Saturday, after it was revealed that they had travelled along with her to a relative's place despite the lockdown. The girl's father, resident of a cluster containment zone in Jamnakund area, gave police the slip on Friday by pretending to be a government officer, Ghogha police said. He went to their relative's house at Ghogha on a motorcycle along with his wife and their daughter. The girl is in the isolation ward at Sir T Hospital in Bhavnagar. The girl's parents and two others who came in contact with the girl were also quarantined. On Sunday, an FIR was registered against the girl's parents under IPC Sections 170 (personating a public servant), 269 (negligent act likely to spread infection of disease dangerous to life), 270 (malignant act likely to spread infection of disease dangerous to life), 188 (disobedience to order duly promulgated by public servant). The were also booked under provisions of the Epidemic Diseases Act, the police added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/parents-of-covid-19-girl-booked-for-defying-lockdown-orders/articleshow/75112864.cms||---
April 13, 2020||Varanasi||Woman jumps into Ganga with kids, 2 drown||Varanasi: Two girls were killed while their three younger siblings were feared drowned after their mother Manju (36) jumped into river Ganga with them in Bhadohi district on Sunday morning. However, Manju managed to swim to the river banks and was saved. Police had engaged divers to search the children. SP Bhadohi RB Singh said that family dispute is being suspected as reason behind the woman’s attempt to commit suicide along with her children. Further investigation is in progress, he added Police said that Manju of Jahagirabad area under Gopiganj police station area reached near river with her children —Shiv Shankar (6), Keshav (3), Aarti (11), Saraswati (7) and Mateshwari (5). She asked all of them to jump into the river with her and the children followed her instructions. Manju swimmed to the river banks and sat there. Some villagers, who reached there and sought the reason of her sitting there when she divulged that she has drowned her children. Alarmed over hearing it, locals alerted police. After reaching the spot Gopiganj police immediately engaged the local divers to search for the missing children. After exercising hard till late afternoon, the divers fished out the bodies of Aarti and Saraswati while Mateshwari, Shiv and Keshav were still missing, said SP Bhadohi. He said that as the current in water of Ganga is high due to rise in water level, divers faced problems in the search operation despite using giant nets. Initial investigation revealed that Manju had some dispute with her husband Mridul Yadav, who had left home two days ago with his friend. He returned on Sunday morning after the incident had occurred. Police suspect family dispute to be the reason behind the incident.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/varanasi/woman-jumps-into-ganga-with-kids-2-drown/articleshow/75112198.cms||---
April 13, 2020||Ahmedabad||26 ‘Sura’ jamaatis traced, 3 Covid-19 positive: Gujarat DGP Shivanand Jha||AHMEDABAD: From two villages of Bharuch district, Deval and Parkhet, 26 more ‘Sura’ jamaatis were identified and sent for medical check-up. “Out of these 26 jamaatis, 3 have turned out Covid-19 positive, said DGP Shivanand Jha. He added that they have been quarantined. Jha said the main ‘Amir’ (leader) of the ‘Sura jamaat’ has also tested positive. Jha said police have registered cases against 13 jamaatis who had gone to Bhavnagar from Bharuch before lockdown was returned to Bharuch during lockdown. “They had gone in a private vehicle. The driver of the vehicle and the 13 jamaatis have been booked under Section 188 IPC for violating lockdown norms,” he said. With Covid-19 cases on the rise, five more companies of Rapid Action Force (RAF) and one company of BSF have been allotted to the city to maintain law and order. Jha on Sunday said that two cases of ambulances carrying ordinary passengers have been registered. “One was in Rajkot and the other in Morbi,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/26-sura-jamaatis-traced-3-ve-dgp/articleshow/75112990.cms||---
April 13, 2020||Ahmedabad||Ahmedabad: Police create sanitization van for personnel on lockdown duty||AHMEDABAD: With a constable of Kalupur police station testing positive for Covid-19, the city police have come up with an innovative idea to quickly and thoroughly sanitize their personnel. Special police commissioner, crime branch, Ajay Tomar said that they have made a sanitization van in which a policeman has to sit for just half a minute and his whole body, including garments, will get sanitized. Tomar said they acted on representations from policemen and officers working in Covid-19 affected or cluster-quarantine areas to sanitize their entire bodies, uniform, shoes and belts. “They had said that if they go home without sanitization, they may take the vicious virus home and put their family in risk,” Tomar said. He added that they contacted Dr Vineet Mishra of IKDRC and with his help they prepared a mix of methyl alcohol and two binding agents.  “This mix is filled in the tank on the top of the van. A policeman just has to sit in the van for half a minute and the fumes sanitize his whole body,” Tomar said. He said two more such vans are being built. “This van will be deployed in vulnerable areas to sanitize personnel and keep them safe.” Police sources said the current sanitization van moves around in quarantined and vulnerable areas. “This will make our force and their families safe. It needed to be done as the police is fighting a big war against the virus and we need our personnel to be fit,” Tomar said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/police-create-sanitization-van-for-personnel-on-lockdown-duty/articleshow/75113645.cms||Sarfaraz Shaikh
April 13, 2020||Goa||Report to duty, or face action: Labour dept to essential staff||Margao: The commissioner of labour has asked all employees of industries which have been exempted from the lockdown and permitted to the operate by the ministry of home affairs (MHA) in order to provide essential services, to resume their duties, failing which necessary action would be taken against them. “The employees who reside in Goa and have been asked to resume their duties by the management of these exempted establishments/industries are expected to report to work. In case of failure to join, the management of the concerned factories will be at liberty to initiate necessary action against the erring employees,” a press note states. The management of such establishments/industries have been asked to abide by the safety norms related to Covid-19 as issued from time to time, such as use of sanitisers, masks and following norms of social distancing. Such establishments will be responsible for the health screening, transport arrangement (ensuring all health-related safeguards) for their employees coming to work during this period, the note adds. Pharmaceutical and food processing units, among others are considered essential services.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/report-to-duty-or-face-action-labour-dept-to-essential-staff/articleshow/75113395.cms||---
April 13, 2020||Madurai||Minister: Tamil Nadu outstanding in tackling Covid-19 crisis||The Tamil Nadu government has acted transparently and kept people prepared and aware of the Covid-19 crisis, even before the disease was reported in Tamil Nadu, said Minister for Revenue, Disaster Management and IT R B Udayakumar. He was speaking to officials of various departments including police and revenue, at a review meeting held in Madurai on Sunday. All details with regard to Covid-19 were available in the website www.stopcorona.tn.gov.in. TN was a state which had acted first to tackle the crisis, through various measures. Check posts were established in the state borders, international travellers were screened at the airports and quarantined. Till date 969 persons were found to be positive for the disease in Tamil Nadu and containment zones were identified and door-to-door checking and screening was being done by over 33,000 workers throughout the state, he said. Till Sunday, about 59 lakh people from 16.60 houses had been screened across the state.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/min-tn-outstanding-in-tackling-covid-19-crisis/articleshow/75113392.cms||---
April 13, 2020||Madurai||DYFI disinfects small Madurai roads||MADURAI: DYFI members, who are among those registered for the government’s volunteer programme to tackle the Covid-19 crisis, have started disinfecting small lanes in the city as they have hardly received any calls for assistance under the programme. DYFI district secretary T Selvaraj said that 25 of them had joined the programme, while about four of them had got calls to help with distribution of essential commodities and medicines to the needy. They found that most of them were just waiting for a call. “We are already known in many parts of the city because we have helped the people in one way or other in the past. Something that they have been asking collectively was disinfection of their streets,” he said. They pooled in money and bought five portable disinfecting machines from the agriculture college in Madurai a few days back for Rs 5,000. So far, they have disinfected streets in 15 wards of the city, including South Gate, Jaihindpuram and Aruldosspuram. The women in the unit including Manjula, Vimala, Divya, Kavitha, Yogeswari and a couple of others have been using this initiative to spread awareness on hygiene. In some places like Jaihindpura, corporation officials have come forward to give them the chemicals for the process. “We know that spraying disinfectant is not a very girl thing, but when they do it they are able to attract the attention of residents, and can spread the importance of hygiene and masks,” he said. Many men also offered to help them and do the disinfecting process regularly.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/dyfi-disinfects-small-city-roads/articleshow/75113388.cms||---
April 13, 2020||Delhi||Hydroxychloroquine not the magic drug you are waiting for?||NEW DELHI: Hydroxychloroquine (HCQ) might not be the magical drug for Covid-19 that everyone has been waiting for. A study conducted in the US showed the administration of this drug — originally used to treat malaria and autoimmune diseases such as rheumatoid arthritis and lupus — in hospitalised Covid-19 patients brought no significant benefits in reducing the mortality rate, compared to those who received only supportive treatment. Instead, the study showed that HCQ administration was associated with an increased need for escalation of respiratory support compared to supportive treatment only. The study was conducted by researchers from Sinai Grace and Henry Ford Hospital in Detroit, the largest and most populous city in the US state of Michigan. Both hospitals have been designated for Covid-19. According to researchers, they enrolled 63 Covid-19 patients for the study to assess the efficacy of HCQ. One group consisting 32 hospitalised Covid-19 patients was given HCQ — initially 400mg twice daily for one to two days and then three to four subsequent days of 200mg to 400mg once daily dose — in addition to the supportive treatment. The other group consisting for 31 patients, meanwhile, received only supportive treatment. “The HCQ group had a significantly higher respiratory support need after five days compared to the support-only group. The HCQ group also had a strong but no statistically significant trend towards worsening Neutrophil-to-Lymphocyte Ratio (NLR), which is used as a marker of systemic inflammation,” the researchers claimed in the study, which is now under review for publication by the New England Journal of Medicine — one of world’s top medical journal. “We recommend a more judicious prescription of HCQ in the setting of SARS-CoV2 (Covid-19) before a larger analysis can be completed,” the authors claimed. India is the world’s largest producer and exporter of HCQ. Recently, US President Donald Trump appealed to Prime Minister Narendra Modi to open up its exports. Trump has, in a controversial move, cleared the use of this anti-malarial drug against Covid-19. India has allowed the use of the drug as prophylactic for frontline healthcare workers, but not yet as treatment. Anthony Fauci, the doctor at the forefront of US’s response to the pandemic, stressed that the evidence for clinical efficacy of HCQ for Covid-19 treatment was ‘anecdotal’. The French agency for safety of health products has also recently stated how cases of adverse reactions had been reported in connection with medicines. Dr S K Sarin, director of ILBS, said, “The drug has known side-effects, which must be accounted to while looking at its efficacy.” AIIMS director Dr Randeep Guleria said: “Like any other drug, HCQ has side effects. It should be taken by only those it has been recommended to by ICMR because that has been decided after looking into the risk-benefit analysis.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/hcq-not-the-magic-drug-youre-waiting-for/articleshow/75113401.cms||Durgesh Nandan Jha
April 13, 2020||Mysuru||Classical music concerts go online in Mysuru||MYSURU: Mysureans have found a way to keep themselves entertained as they remain under lockdown, with a number of artistes using Facebook to live stream their performances. City-based vocalist M A Jyothi, who had five concerts lined up for Ram Navami, cancelled them due to the lockdown. She sang for a concert that was streamed live via Ganabharathi’s Facebook page. Jyothi said, “The online music concert happened after over five of my concerts, that were planned for the Ram Navami celebrations at several locations in Mysuru city, were cancelled, and I thank Ganabhrathi for organising it.” Jyothi is not the only artiste who is performing online. While the lockdown has taken a toll on all sectors, the city’s cultural life has been hit severely. So far, Ganabharathi has successfully conducted three online music programmes featuring vocalists Jyothi, Srinath and a flute performance by Chandankumar, the grandson of noted musician Pitil Chowdaiah. “As multiple music concerts planned by several organisations were cancelled due to the Covid-19 pandemic, music collective Ganabharathi decided to go online to promote solo individual live music programmes, where the artiste can perform from their residence itself,” said Ganabharathi’s secretary T S Venugopal. “The programmes are being streamed on the Ganabharathi Facebook page, twice a week, between 6pm to 7pm. All these three programmes have so far received a good response from viewers,” he added. Music patron and Ganabharathi president Dr C G Narasimhan said that the organisation will continue to promote online music programmes on it’s Facebook page, after the lockdown is lifted.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mysuru/classical-music-concerts-go-online-in-mysuru/articleshow/75111425.cms||---
April 13, 2020||Varanasi||Man ends life by consuming pesticide in Varanasi||VARANASI: A man died in Jaunpur while his minor son was referred to Varanasi in a critical condition after the duo consumed pesticides at their residence on Sunday morning. Inspector Mungra Badshahpur RB Yadav said that prolonged illness and poor financial condition was the reason behind the extreme step. The body was sent for postmortem. According to the sources, Komal Yadav (40) of Dharmapur Thakurchi village under the limits of Mungra Badshahpur police station loaded vegetables of his field in a van and sent it to market with his brother on Sunday. Then he called his son Aditya (12) and asked him to consume pesticides with him. After consuming it he fell unconsicious while Aditya called his brother Swatantra over phone and told him about the incident. Swatantra immediately arranged an ambulance and rushed the duo to the district hospital where doctors declared Komal as brought dead. In view of sharp deterioration in the health condition of Aditya doctors referred him to Varanasi. During police investigating it came to light that Komal initially used to run a tea kiosk near his village. For better earning he had gone to Mumbai a few years ago but he fell ill there and had to return. He was already upset over expenses on his treatment when his wife also died two years ago. His family told the police that he had become mentally disturbed due to his poor financial condition and ailment.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/varanasi/man-ends-life-by-consuming-pesticide/articleshow/75112264.cms||---
April 13, 2020||Ahmedabad||Rancharda boy’s case baffles health teams||Ahmedabad: A six-year-old boy from Rancharda village in Kalol taluka of Gandhinagar tested positive on Sunday. The discovery baffled the state health department as the village has not recorded any positive case before, and the child’s parents or immediate relatives have not tested positive. As the child’s father had been to Thaltej to get payment from his employer – a farmhouse owner – and a paying guest at the same residence is from Bopal, along with Gandhinagar district health department, the departments of Ahmedabad city and district have also been engaged to identify the potential source of infection. Jayanti Ravi, principal secretary (health & family welfare), said that the child was admitted to the Civil Hospital in Ahmedabad with symptoms of severe acute respiratory infection (SARI). “Contact tracing of the child is on,” she mentioned on Sunday. After the news, senior district administration including police and mamlatdar camped at the village, sealed its entry and exit points and started the intensive survey of nearby residences. Sources close to the development said that about 42 persons have been identified who might have come in contact with the child in the past few days.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/rancharda-boys-case-baffles-health-teams/articleshow/75113643.cms||---
April 13, 2020||Jaipur||Two more deaths keep health officials in a tizzy||Jaipur: The Health department officials and doctors at JK Lon Hospital in Jaipur were in a tizzy on Sunday when the Covid-19 report of a 13-year-old girl came positive a day after her death. Now, the officials have kept the father of the girl who works in Jaipur in quarantine. Since the girl is a native of Farookhabad and was initially admitted to a government hospital in Agra, the authorities in Uttar Pradesh have also been intimated. Also, a 60-year-old man who was diabetic and came to Sawai Man Singh hospital for a surgery on April 10 died after reaching home in Tonk on Saturday. He too tested positive for Covid-19 According to sources, the girl with acute abdominal pain was admitted to JK Lon Hospital on April 9. “She had developed perforation peritonitis which is actually rupturing of intestine, an effect of severe case of typhoid. We had taken her samples on April 10 and she succumbed on April 11. However, her report turned out to be Covid-19 positive on Sunday,” said Doctor Ashok Gupta, superintendent of JK Lon hospital said. Authorities were thereafter intimated to trace the father of the girl on Sunday and the man was put in isolation. “The girl’s father used to work in Jaipur, thus he was located and taken for qurantine and his samples will be taken. As the family of the girl stays at Farookhabad in Uttar Pradesh and the girl was initially admitted at government hospital in Agra, the Uttar Pradesh counterparts have been intimated about the development,” said a senior officer of the health department. Meanwhile, a 60-year-old man who died on Saturday at Tonk also turned out to be Covid-19 positive case. “He came to SMS hospital for a surgery on April 10 from where he was referred to Mahatma Gandhi hospital. He went back to Tonk and died on April 11. He tested positive,” said Rohit Kumar Singh, additional chief secretary, medical and health. “On his death, further information is being collected and a detailed investigation is being carried out. More details will emerge thereafter,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/two-more-deaths-keep-health-officials-in-a-tizzy/articleshow/75113391.cms||---
April 13, 2020||Ahmedabad||Cooperate with medical staff, police: Ahmed Patel||Gandhinagar: Rajya Sabha MP and All India Congress treasurer Ahmed Patel, in a video message, has appealed to people of Gujarat to co-operate with personnel involved with medical services and police as they have been risking their lives to control further spread of the COVID-19 pandemic. Patel said, “At this time, we all must forget our differences and come together to fight against the coronavirus outbreak. We should also help the daily wage earners who are worst hit in the crisis. We all must come forward and help them in every possible manner.” He added that many individuals and NGOs are doing excellent work. Patel said, “While the spread of the pandemic is still in control, I am hearing sad news of people dying of hunger which is very serious. I appeal to people not to misuse social media to spread hatred.” Patel also raised issue of lack of personal protection equipment (PPE) for medical, sanitation, police and other frontline workers. “I humbly request all citizens to respect the sacrifice being done by the medical staff, police, sanitation workers and co-operate with them. We all have to work as a nation to fight against the pandemic now,” Patel said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/cooperate-with-medical-staff-police-ahmed-patel/articleshow/75113003.cms||---
April 13, 2020||Madurai||Delivering medicines tough for homeopathic clinics||MADURAI: Amid the lockdown and social distancing for Covid-19, most homeopathic clinics in the city are functioning under strict precautions with most consultations being done over phone or video calls. However, doctors are finding it difficult to deliver medicine to their patients, especially those who live in far off areas or nearby districts, which was usually being done by postal and courier services. “Homeopathic care is an essential service just like allopathic care. We are also treating patients who are vulnerable and suffering from a range of diseases. We are trying our best to take all precautions but still it has been difficult for the patients,” said Dr S Sekar Pandian, who runs a clinic in K Pudur. Doctors have so far been able to handle most patients either by phone calls or video calls. However, despite the usefulness of digital consultations, some patients, particularly those who want to consult for the first time, need to make hospital visits, which has been a struggle for them. “If it is a routine patient, we can easily consult over phone because we know the history and adjust dosage or change in medicine. However, we cannot do the same for new patients. Only a physical examination can help us provide the right treatment,” said the doctor. Sanitization, practising hand washing and social distancing are in place In the clinics. “We are also trying to help provide documents or at least a message on phone to help patients from being get pulled up by police,” added Dr Sekar Pandian. The major hurdle in homeopathic care at present is providing medicines for patients. Enough medicines are available in stock both in clinics and with pharmacists. However, many patients who were getting their medicines over post and courier are unable to receive them. “With post and courier shut down, the government must bring in some measure and introduce a service to ensure medicines reach all homeopathic patients on time. This is just as much an essential service,” added a homeopathic doctor||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/delivering-meds-tough-for-homeo-clinics/articleshow/75113404.cms||Sukshma Ramakrishnan
April 13, 2020||Madurai||Virudhunagar district’s first Covid-19 patient discharged||MADURAI: A 60-year-old man, the first Covid-19 positive case in Virudhunagar district, also became the first in the district to successfully recover from the disease. He was discharged from a private hospital in Madurai on Sunday. Though the number of Covid-19 positive cases crossed the 1,000 mark in the state on Sunday, only two more cases were reported in the southern districts taking the total number of patients in the region to 239. According to sources, the 60-year-old from Rajapalayam in Virudhunagar recovered fully from Covid-19 after undergoing treatment at a private hospital in Madurai. He was discharged after he tested negative for Covid-19 twice in the last three days. Hospital staff cheered as the man left the isolation ward. At present, 21 people from Madurai and 10 from Virudhunagar districts are undergoing treatment at Government Rajaji Hospital (GRH) in Madurai. On Sunday, two cases, one from Tenkasi district and one from Dindigul district tested positive for Covid-19. The patient from Tenkasi is said to be a primary case, while the patient from Dindigul is said to be a secondary contact. In Tenkasi, the number of Covid-19 positive cases is five and the health officials and police have locked down all affected areas with barricades. On the other hand, in Dindigul, the total positive cases stood at 56, the fifth highest in the state. The district administration is trying to implement strict measures actively to restrict the movement of people to ensure no further spread of infection. Meanwhile, in Madurai, two people with suspected Covid-19 symptoms died at GRH on Sunday. The two, a man and a woman, are said to have been suffering from multiple illnesses apart from Covid-19 symptoms, sources said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/virudhunagar-districts-first-covid-19-patient-discharged/articleshow/75113400.cms||---
April 13, 2020||Hyderabad||FPS Run Out Of Rice; Card Holders Yet To Get Supply||Hyderabad: Several card holders are ruing that they have not been able to get their quota of free rice even as the Fair Price Shops (FPS) in the state have run out of stock. Civil Supplies department officials said the reason for this is that over 80% of the card holders have taken rice from 17,000 FPS in the state. They say that three lakh metric tonnes of rice have been given free of cost till date since the distribution began on April 1. However, many card holders were shocked to find out that their quota of rice was already taken by someone else. This happened because of the huge rush of card holders in the first week of distribution and the dealers were not able to enter the ration card numbers properly. It was an unintentional mistake on the part of the shop dealers, who were more focused on requesting the card holders to maintain social distance, a norm which was not being followed in the initial days of distribution. Due to a mistake in entering the last digit number of card holders, rice was given to some other card holder. Though complaints are that many card holders missed their quota of rice, officials said these could be isolated cases and that they were looking into the issue. In tune with the directions given by chief minister K Chandrasekhar Rao that the government will ensure that rice distribution continues until the last card holder gets it, a senior official said, “It’s a continuous process that the rice stocks would be supplied to every FPS as and when the stocks finish. In cities and towns, the room taken on rent by the dealers to run the FPS are small due to higher rentals and as such the storage capacity is also less due to which stocks get exhausted soon.” The official reiterated that rice would be supplied till the last ration card holder gets it.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/fps-run-out-of-rice-card-holders-yet-to-get-supply/articleshow/75113431.cms||Roushan Ali
April 13, 2020||Ahmedabad||Ahmedabad crosses 250 cases, most from clusters||AHMEDABAD: On Sunday, the city crossed 250 cases, adding 39 cases in a day. By Sunday evening, the tally was 283. The city on Sunday also recorded two deaths – of a 75-year-old man and a 60-year-old woman in LG Hospital and Civil Hospital respectively. With the new cases, the city now accounts for 55% of the total positive cases of Gujarat and 50% of total deaths. In past four days, the number of cases identified as local transmission (LT) increased exponentially, to 85% of the total cases. Jayanti Ravi, principal secretary (health & family welfare), said that the cases in Ahmedabad city were recorded from areas such as Behrampura, Ghodasar, Ranip, Maninagar, Motera, Danilimda, Naroda, Isanpur, Jamalpur, Raikhad and Odhav. “Many of these areas are identified as hotspots for Covid-19 and intensive screening has begun,” she said. A Covid-19 case heat map released by the state health department on Sunday revealed that two clusters – the Walled City area and Danilimda and periphery – accounted for 70 cases each. Another notable cluster was Navrangpura, Naranpura and Ambawadi which has recorded 14 cases so far. The cases were identified by the method of increase in RT-PCR tests by improving sample collection and door-to-door survey to identify potential positive cases. The city health officials admitted that some of the cases were found during the survey, which would not have been detected by conventional methods as those who tested positive had no apparent signs of viral infection such as cough, fever or breathing trouble. On Sunday, the new positive cases included a family of four from Naranpura and two from a family each in Maninagar and Jamalpur.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/city-crosses-250-cases-most-from-clusters/articleshow/75113648.cms||---
April 13, 2020||Nagpur||With no order from CP, cops undecided about ‘mask’ action||Nagpur: City police’s sizeable chunk of the lower rung personnel are clueless whether to take action against the violators stepping out without wearing masks. While some of the police station in-charges believe it is an offence of violating government order, the others are still waiting for the city police chief BK Upadhyay to issue a directive under his name and seal. MIDC police station in-charge Hemant Kharabe said that nine people were pulled up in his jurisdiction for not wearing masks. Senior inspector Jayesh Bhandarkar of Tehsil police station also said that three people were acted upon for not using masks. “Awareness has increased and hence people are not violating the norms of wearing masks as it was in the past,” said Bhandarkar. In the past, NMC chief Tukaram Mundhe and collector Ravindra Thakare have already issued order making the use of masks as compulsory. Even the state home minister Anil Deshmukh too had specifically said that wearing masks is compulsory in cities like Nagpur. Joint CP Ravindra Kadam said that any competent authority issuing an order becomes enforceable. “An order issued by NMC commissioner or CP Nagpur is good enough for the action to begin on the persons stepping out without wearing masks,” he said. Kadam added that the violators not wearing masks can be pulled up in similar manner as that of other lockdown offenders under the same provisions. According to a senior inspector, most of the cops feel that CP’s order would have motivated them better to go for a drive against the non-mask users. “We feel, the order of the NMC chief should be enforced by his team. If they catch anyone and hand over to us, then we may take legal action,” he said. Another senior inspector said that senior officers are stressing on creating awareness regarding wearing mask for some more time before initiating the action.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/with-no-order-from-cp-cops-undecided-about-mask-action/articleshow/75112998.cms||Soumitra Bose
April 13, 2020||Madurai||Online learning picks up among kids in Madurai||MADURAI: With all schools shut across the state, both government and private schools in the district are trying their best to keep their students engaged as many are quickly picking up holding online classes or making use of e-learning resources available. “From this week, our school started online classes for Class XII portions by using a video conference call app. We are slowly getting used to it. Though nothing can replace an actual classroom, in this situation, since we don’t want to miss out, we are trying our best to keep up,” said Anushri R, a student of a private school. Many schools, including government schools, are making use of such apps or at least WhatsApp to be in touch with students and conduct classes or activities. Even the Tamil Nadu school education department has introduced an e-learning website https://e-learn.tnschools.gov.in/. The website, accessible through both mobile phone and desktop, contains e-learning resources covering the state board syllabus for Classes I to XII. Videos in the form of animation, lectures by teachers, and even songs are available as learning and practice resources. While some schools are simply encouraging voluntary learning through e-resources, others are trying to constantly be in touch with students and engage them in learning actively. “In our school, teachers prepare a set of question papers or activities and share via WhatsApp. Students finish their work and reply to teachers just like how it is in regular classes. It is highly important to keep students engaged at this time because they could easily get distracted,” said Asokan A, correspondent of a government-aided school. Some government school teachers, however, still felt that the current environment in the state is not fit to allow children to focus on learning. “Many poor families are suffering trying to just get three meals a day let alone being able to worry about their child’s education. Children from poorer sections of the society are at an unfair disadvantage this way,” said the principal of a government higher secondary school.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/online-learning-picks-up-among-kids/articleshow/75113405.cms||Sukshma Ramakrishnan
April 13, 2020||Ahmedabad||Eight screening points formed in Ahmedabad district||AHMEDABAD: Ahmedabad rural police along with the district development officer (DDO) and district health department officers have created eight points at key locations in the district to implement lockdown and screen all persons passing from these points. Health department officials equipped with temperature guns are deployed at these locations, said officials. K T Kamariya, DSP, Sanand, told TOI that at locations such as Sanathal Crossroads, Bakrol, YMCA Club, etc., the joint teams of health officials and police will carry out checking of every passersby. “If the person doesn’t have any valid reason, he or she will be stopped, and cases will be registered,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/eight-screening-points-formed-in-abad-district/articleshow/75113650.cms||---
April 13, 2020||Goa||Third relief flight takes off for UK with 316 people||PANAJI: The third relief flight organised by the British government took off for Stansted Airport, London on Sunday at 2.15pm with 316 passengers and essential medicines for the UK’s National Health Service, officials said. The relief flight, operated by Titan Airways, is the 21st repatriation flight from Goa International Airport. Till date, 3,930 foreign nationals from 35 different countries have been repatriated home through the joint efforts of the Airports Authority of India, ministry of external affairs and the state government. “The 21st relief flight took off from Goa airport to UK with 315 adults and one infant. Special care was taken for old people and children at all times,” said Goa International Airport director Gagan Malik. “Essential cargo was also uploaded.” The officials said, several pallets of medicines, including paracetamol, that are required to treat coronavirus was loaded on the Airbus A330-243 aircraft. The medicines were exported by a Verna-based pharmaceutical company. Acting British deputy high commissioner for Western India Paul Carter and a team of officials are camping in Goa to facilitate the repatriation of British nationals. The nodal officer for foreigners Amit Satija informed the state executive committee that till April 10, 3,614 foreigners have left in 20 flights. He also said that the state has facilitated the exit of citizens of around 35 countries. Over 900 Britons have been repatriated from Goa over the last five days through three flights while over 2,000 UK residents have been flown out of the country on relief flights organised by the UK government. The passengers were asked to assemble at a common pickup point along the North and South Goa coastal belt and were then ferried to the airport in special buses.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/3rd-relief-flight-takes-off-for-uk-with-316-people/articleshow/75113416.cms||---
April 13, 2020||Varanasi||Locals praise corona warriors||Gorakhpur: The police, medical and cleaning staff, who are tirelessly working amid the coronavirus pandemic keeping the city safe, secure and clean while others stay at home, were lauded by residents of Gorakhpur and Kushinagar on Sunday. Residents of Takia Kawaldajh area in Gorakhpur welcomed the cleaning staff with a garland of currency notes. In Kushinagar’s Padrouna, people showered flowers on and clapped for them at Subhash Chowk, two days ago. Traffic police inspector in Kushinagar, Paramhans, said, “It was a fulfilling moment when residents acknowledged our efforts.”. People from Gorakhpur’s Takia Kawaldajh welcomed the cleaning staff—Ali Raza and Shabbo—with currency note garlands and showered them with praises. “Even as coronavirus cases are spiking across the world, there has not been a single positive case in Gorakhpur so far. It felt as if we were rewarded for just going about our business,” said Ali Raza. Shabbo also expressed happiness over the residents’ gesture.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/varanasi/locals-praise-corona-warriors/articleshow/75112296.cms||---
April 13, 2020||Varanasi||More than 1.61 lakh install Aarogya Setu app in dist||Varanasi: The efforts of mobilising all smartphone users to install Aarogya Setu app for effective monitoring of Covid-19 led to installation of the app by 1.61 lakh people on Saturday. The officials expect the figures to cross the mark of two lakhs in a day or two. Apart from divisional commissioner Deepak Agrawal and district magistrate Kaushal Raj Sharma, several other magistrates appealed to the people with loudspeakers in different areas of district to install this app in their smartphones. The DM said, Aarogya Setu, a mobile app developed by the ministry of electronics and IT to help citizens identify their risk of contracting the novel coronavirus, had notched up more than 1.61 lakh downloads till Saturday night. He said, available in 11 languages, the app has been designed to keep the user informed in case he has crossed paths with someone who has tested positive. He said that the number of its users is expected to cross the mark of two lakhs in the district in a day or two. The app has a tool for self-testing. The user is asked to answer a number of questions. In case some of the answers suggest Covid-19 symptoms, the information will be sent to a government server. The data will then help the government take timely steps and initiate the isolation procedure, if necessary. The app also help alert a person if someone he/she came in close proximity with unknowingly, tests positive.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/varanasi/more-than-1-61-lakh-install-aarogya-setu-app-in-dist/articleshow/75112286.cms||---
April 13, 2020||Ahmedabad||Gujarat: Rs 3,950 crore central assistance for poor||GANDHINAGAR: A sum of Rs 3,950 crore has been allocated to Gujarat under the Union government’s Pradhan Mantri Garib Kalyan package to ensure their welfare and well-being amid the global pandemic. Chief minister Vijay Rupani has also announced Mukhyamantri Garib Kalyan package worth Rs 2,259 crore. Secretary to CM, Ashwani Kumar, said, “With the help of the central and state government packages, the poor, middle-class, and all those eligible under various schemes will be able to avail assistance worth Rs 6,209 crores amidst the pandemic.’’ Beneficiaries of PM Kisan Yojana will get the first instalment of Rs 2,000 in April. As many as 47,81,426 farmers of the state will avail assistance of Rs 956.28 crore under this. Under the PDS, beneficiaries will get 5kg of additional grains per person and 1kg of additional pulses per family per month for a period of three months. Over 68 lakh card holders in Gujarat will benefit from this scheme. Ex-gratia amount of Rs 1,000 will be provided in two phases to women, girls and divyangs for three months. Women with a Jan Dhan bank account will receive Rs 500 for three months as an ex-gratia grant. Around 74 lakh women of Gujarat will receive benefits worth Rs 1,110 crore under this. Beneficiaries of Ujjwala Yojana will avail gas cylinders free of cost for the coming three months. Around 28 lakh women of Gujarat will benefit from the scheme.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/rs-3950-crore-central-assistance-for-poor/articleshow/75113015.cms||---
April 13, 2020||Allahabad||Fire dept’s high-pressure vehicles for sanitisation||Prayagraj: To fight against the spread of novel (Covid-19 and prevalent mosquito menace posing the risk of vector-borne diseases has forced the Prayagraj Municipal Corporation ( PMC) to intensify fogging drive in residential areas. The fire department has also given its three high pressure vehicles including one big ( 2500 litre capacity) and two small vehicles ( 400 litre each) to the authorities for sanitization purpose. With demand for sanitization and fogging rising in all the five zones across the city , the f PMC authorities have also deployed over 15 vehicles for the sanitization and fogging purposes. A senior PMC official claimed that requests for sanitization and fogging are flooded with the PMC authorities from all corners of the city, and in a bid to reach out to all the 80 wards of the city, the PMC authorities have taken vehicles from the fire department to cover maximum areas of the city. In view of the fluctuating temperature, which provide suitable breeding conditions to mosquitoes, the PM\C authorities have deployed six vehicles for fogging. The civic body is taking up fogging once in a day, particularly in late afternoon hours. Chief fire officer RS Mishra told TOI that three vehicles of the fire department’s were being utilised for sanitization and the high pressure vehicle was used for sanitization in hotspot area as well as around the community health centre, Kotwa, where as many as nine Covid -19 patients have been quarantined. A senior PMC official said that the fogging and sanitization work have been taken up on the priority basis by the Jal Kal department and we all five zones were being covered. He said apart from sanitization, fogging will also prevent mosquito breeding and help curb vector-borne diseases. The corporators too had demanded fogging and sanitization in their respective wards. Senior corporator Mukund Tiwari said “We have demanded fogging, sanitization and proper cleanliness drive in all the city localities at a war-footing”. We have also urged the PMC authorities to depute adequate number of workers to cover maximum parts of the city, he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/allahabad/fire-depts-high-pressure-vehicles-for-sanitisation/articleshow/75112320.cms||---
April 13, 2020||Vadodara||Four posing as scribes rob shop owner in Padra, held||Vadodara: Five men posing as a scribes robbed a provision store owner at Aanti village in Padra taluka of Vadodara on Saturday evening alleging that he had been selling cigarettes and tobacco products at a price higher than the MRP. Of the five robbers, four men were nabbed by the sarpanch and other residents of the village while they were trying to flee from the village. According to the owner of the store Shaukat Albi, the five accused Arif Malek, Hanif Malek, Asif Malek, Bashir Malek and Yasin Malek came to his shop on Saturday evening asking for a cigarette. After Albi gave a cigarette, the accused alleged that he was indulging in black marketing of tobacco products. “They identified themselves as journalists from Vadodara and said that they have been entrusted the task by the superintendent of Vadodara rural police to visit every village and check that tobacco products are not being sold during lockdown,” Albi said. The accused then took packets of paan masala, cigarettes and other products from his shop and took photos. They told Albi that they can settle the issue if he will pay them Rs 20,000. But when Albi informed them that he did not have the money, they robbed Rs 3,000 from his shop’s cash box and fled. Later, they made attempt to target another shop owner and were trying to flee from the village. However, as the sarpanch of the village and a few other residents were keeping a vigil in the village for the lockdown, the four accused were cornered at the bus-stand of the village while the fifth one managed to escape. They were later handed over to Padra police station. Cops said that all five are residents of Vasna Road in Vadodara and were identifying themselves as journalists.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/four-posing-as-scribes-rob-shop-owner-in-padra-held/articleshow/75111361.cms||---
April 13, 2020||Allahabad||Priyanka all praises for woman helping poor during lockdown||Prayagraj: Congress general secretary Priyanka Gandhi Vadra wrote to a deaf and mute woman from city and lauded her for lending a helping hand to the homeless and poor, during the lockdown announced to contain the spread of novel coronavirus (Covid-19). Naseema Begum has been distributing food packets among homeless persons in different parts of the city ever since the lockdown was enforced on March 24. On Sunday, senior Congress leaders handed over the letter to Naseema. Congress general secretary Irshad Ullah said, “Naseema Begun has been distributing food and groceries among the poor in Kydganj, Bahadurganj and adjoining areas since the past one week.” The letter reads “Bol aur sun na sakne ke bawjood apne is aapda ke waqt jis tarah se asahayon aur zarooratmando ki sewa main apne ko samarpit kiya hai, usse humein aap par naaz hai. Apne sabit kiya hai ki sharirik apangta bhi insaniyat ki sewa ki jazbe main bandha nahi daal sakti. Insaniyat ki yahi sewa sacchi deshbhakti hai. Aapke iss sewa bhav se desh ki karodo logon ko prerna milegi. Aapke sewa bhav ko salam (I am proud of you for deciding to dedicate yourself to the service of the poor and needy in such testing times, despite not being able to speak and hear. You have proved that a person’s disabilities is no bar for humanity. Service for humanity is true patriotism. Your efforts will inspire millions in the country. I salute your drive.)”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/allahabad/priyanka-all-praises-for-woman-helping-poor-during-lockdown/articleshow/75112330.cms||---
April 13, 2020||Goa||Goa: Congress slams BJP for ‘crony capitalism’||PANAJI: The state government headed by chief minister Pramod Sawant has ignored the hardships and concerns of the common man while constituting the special committee for economic revival, said Congress on Sunday. By appointing industrialists and businessmen on the committee, the BJP had once again tried to promote crony capitalism, the party said. “The names in the committee comprise industrialists, entrepreneurs and businessmen, most of whom are interested parties who will try to take maximum benefits from the revival package. The committee has no representation for small businesses like gaadas, professions like motorcycle pilots, rickshaws, poders and bakers, bars and taverns, labour unions, barbers and various others who make a living on day-to-day earnings,” said state Congress general secretary Amarnath Panjikar. He said that PM Narendra Modi has always shown interest in waving off huge loans of big industrialists but always ignores deserving farmers.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/cong-slams-bjp-for-crony-capitalism/articleshow/75113421.cms||---
April 13, 2020||Ahmedabad||Gujarat: Sewa Bank sees 3-fold rise in demand||AHMEDABAD: Shri Mahila Sarkari Sewa Bank Ltd, also known as Sewa Bank, expects its lending to rise as high as three folds once the lockdown period enforced to fight the spread of coronavirus is over. The bank sees a huge surge in demands from its members, especially the women entrepreneurs in the unorganized and informal sectors who may require loans for working capital infusion. The bank has close to five lakh members with a working capital of about Rs 500 crore and deposits to the tune of Rs 300 crore. “The women members have been able to survive the lockdown, mainly through their savings,” said Jayshree Vyas, managing director, Sewa Bank. “The fact that these women are in core sectors where demand is expected to rise immensely post lockdown, we are ready with the matched liquidity. We see loans rising two to three times,” stated Vyas. Amid a growing clamour for stricter curbs, there are reports that the lockdown period may extend beyond April 14 to April 30 to curb a rising tide of infections. In May 2019, the bank saw fresh loan applications of about Rs 20 crore to Rs 25 crore. “This May, we expect this figure to go as high as Rs 60 crore to Rs 75 crore,” averred Vyas, adding that this did not include the lending to self-help groups in rural areas. In 1974, the Self-Employed Women’s Association (Sewa) established Sewa Bank. All employees and board members of the Sewa Bank are the members of the organization, and loans are given out from the funds invested by the members. The interest rates are also decided by the members. The bank has 13 branches and its philosophy is centred around savings, entrepreneurship, and micro-finance. Presently, the women entrepreneurs are faced with the challenges of supply glitches, closure or relocation of markets and restriction in movements due to the lockdown. As a result, the Sewa Bank has also seen a dip in its lending. “While the average loan amount is about Rs 15,000-Rs 20,000, the main focus of the bank is on people’s livelihood,” said Vyas.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/sewa-bank-sees-3-fold-rise-in-demand/articleshow/75113025.cms||Maulik Pathak
April 13, 2020||Allahabad||Coronavirus in UP: EPOS sales for groceries in Kaushambi's 12 sealed villages||PRAYAGRAJ: In a first, Kaushambi would dole out wheat and rice among 3,000 beneficiaries in 12 villages — sealed after two men tested positive for Covid-19 in the district — under the supervision of kotedaars equipped with electronic point of sale (EPOS) machines. EPOS or EPoS or E-PoS is a computerised system used in shops and other retail outlets for recording sales. Not only does it facilitate online payments, but also ensures transparency in transactions. The foodgrains will be distributed under the public distribution system (PDS). Kaushambi district magistrate Manish Kumar Verma said, “After two men were tested positive for Covid-19 in Malak Pachambha block in Kaushambi, we sealed around 12 villages and entry and exit of residents has been since restricted. The administration has chalked out a plan to ensure that residents don’t run out of groceries. According to the plan, a kotedaar would be taking rice, wheat and other essential commodities to 3,000 PDS beneficiaries to their doorstep in these sealed villages. The sales would be recorded with EPOS machines.” Besides, basic education and panchayati raj departments have also launched an awareness campaign in these villages and are urging people to wash their hands with soap at regular intervals to shield themselves against novel coronavirus. Teams of government officials are also telling locals about the right way of washing hands. The administration has divided the district into 30 sectors and each sector\zonal in charge has been provided with a loud hailer to help them reach out to maximum number of people in villages. The DM said, “We have distributed over 100 loud hailers which would help officials connect with more and more people and ensure that they are following lockdown guidelines. The officials would also be dispelling several myths surrounding the pandemic.” The farmers who are allowed to for cutting of crops have been strictly asked to follow social distancing norms.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/allahabad/epos-sales-for-groceries-in-12sealed-villages/articleshow/75112325.cms||---
April 13, 2020||Allahabad||7 women, 3 others held for attack on police team||PRAYAGRAJ: Seven women and three others were arrested for allegedly attacking a police team when the personnel had gone to Bikapur village in Sarayinayat area to broker peace after a fight broke out between two rival groups over a property dispute on Saturday night. While the incident occurred on Saturday night, the arrests were made on Sunday. Inspector (Sarayinayat) SK Pandey said, “A team of three policemen posted at police response vehicle (PRV) were tipped off that women from two families were fighting over a property dispute.” They were told that the women were involved in brick battling, hence they rushed to intervene, he added. While the policemen tried to pacify the women, two of the accused — Deepak and Bhola Yadav — egged on the women, who in turn attacked the police team with bricks and stones. One of the constables, Gyan Prakash Yadav, was injured in the attack. The unruly mob allegedly held the constable and tried to strangle him. After being alerted by other villagers, forces from four police stations — Sarayinayat, Phulpur, Baharia, and Tharwai — rushed to the spot and rescued the policemen. Based on a complaint by the injured constable, a case was registered with Sarayinayat police station against 10 named and five others. The accused were identified as Shivani alias Puja Yadav, Neelam Yadav, Rinku Yadav, Sunita Yadav, Poonam Yadav, Prabhawati, Kamlesh Devi, Deepak Yadav and Sanjay Yadav .||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/allahabad/7-women-3-others-held-for-attack-on-police-team/articleshow/75112349.cms||---
April 13, 2020||Agra||AMU’s Jr docs raise Rs 1L to buy PPEs for safety||Agra: Junior doctors at the Jawaharlal Nehru Medical College and Hospital (JNMC) in Aligarh have been forced to collect donations of over Rs 1 lakh to purchase personal protective equipment (PPE) for their own safety and that of health workers dealing with Covid-19 patients as the hospital administration has failed to provide them the same. However, the AMU authorities have denied the charges of lack of protective gear saying that 80-100 PPEs are being provided every day. Spokesperson of the university Shafey Kidwai termed all the allegations as baseless. He said the PPEs are distributed to doctors and paramedical staff. Though not a single patient has been admitted at the Covid ward, administration is taking all precautionary measures. President of the Resident Doctors Association (RDA) Dr Hamza Malik told TOI that only junior residents who are working in the Covid ward are getting PPEs but paramedical staff attached with the wards are not getting it. “It is a disposable item and the administration should have stored more in stock for all frontline workers but the same has not been done,” he said. Dr Malik said they have bought 50 PPEs along with 70 sanitisers and ordered another 50 PPEs which will arrive soon. He said, “We have raised our own funds through donations for purchasing these critical protective gear.” At least eight junior residents and eight nurses are working in two shifts in the Covid-19 ward which has 150 beds, including 50 for quarantine facility. According to junior doctors, no senior consultant has visited the ward even after the intervention of vice-chancellor Tariq Mansoor. The Jawaharlal Nehru Medical College Hospital is one of the frontline medical centres for testing and treating Covid-19 patients in Uttar Pradesh. Meanwhile, AMU administration told TOI that a total of 1,659 free tests have been conducted at JNMC. Of these, 70 cases tested positive for Covid-19. However, none of the cases have been found positive out of the 123 tests conducted over the last 24 hours, said the officials. So far, 51 positive cases are from Noida, seven from Rampur, four from Hathras, two each from Mathura and Bulandshahr and one each from Muradabad, Agra and Budaun.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/agra/amus-jr-docs-raise-rs-1l-to-buy-ppes-for-safety/articleshow/75112329.cms||---
April 13, 2020||Goa||Goa: Seafood set to return as trawlers and rampons venture back into sea||PANAJI: A day after the directorate of fisheries exempted marine fishing activity from lockdown restrictions following the green signal from the Union home ministry, the fishing community of Goa has ventured back into the sea . Most boat owners have immediately resumed fishing activities, since their crew, who were at sea during the lockdown, returned by April 1 and were stationed at the jetty after anchoring their vessels, said Francis Dsouza, president of the Mandovi fisheries cooperative society. Almost 50% of the trawlers have left Malim jetty, while others could not because of lack of sufficient ice from the ice factory. This was also the case at Cutbona where trawlers were raring go but none were able to do so for want of availability of ice for the vessels. President of Cutbona Boat Owners Association, Savio D’Silva, said that as most of the ice plants were shut during the lockdown period, sufficient stock of ice wasn’t available at the plants to meet the demand that arose suddenly. D’Silva said that the situation would normalise by Monday. This has come as a welcome relief for many boat owners since they were worried about the fate of their crew, who had limited rations. “The labourers on the jetty were at risk of contracting Covid-19 since they were on land and could come in contact with others. The crew will be safer at sea and can carry out fishing activities seamlessly. Operations will start in full swing in the next two days,” said boat owner Francisco Fernandes. Besides fishing trawlers, traditional fishermen are also ready to venture into the waters. However, only some ramponkaar took to their nets on Easter Sunday, which was the first day of the lifting of the ban. “The main ramponn fishing has not started yet during the day owing to the high tide. But locals have been taking advantage of the ban and fishing on the beach, for their own consumption. ,” said Caetano Souza, a traditional fisherman from Caranzalem. The fisheries department issued a circular on Saturday asking fishing vessels and fishermen to follow 14 conditions while carrying out fishing, as well as fish sale. The fishermen are to adhere to strict guidelines maintaining social distance, wearing gloves and masks and using sanitisers.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/seafood-set-to-return-as-trawlers-and-rampons-venture-back-into-sea/articleshow/75113423.cms||---
April 13, 2020||Kochi||Food items: A problem of plenty for guest workers?||KOCHI: Despite best efforts by the local bodies and Kudumbashree, incidents of food being wasted by some of the guest workers are reported in Ernakulam. On Sunday, health officials found that food was being wasted by guest workers at a camp of 50 at Mavin Chuvadu ward of Vazhakulam panchayat in the district. The officials and panchayat members reached the camp in the morning on receiving call from workers that they did not have any food to eat. “But to our shock, we found a large quantity food being buried in the ground and dumped in a waste bin. When we enquired about it, the workers feigned ignorance. Initially, they said it was the leftover food, which was dumped in the bin. But when the building owner told us that the workers are wasting the food and burying it in the ground, we checked the backyard of the building. We don’t know why they are wasting the food after collecting it from various sources. Later, police also reached the spot and we highlighted to the workers the importance of not wasting food. We asked them to collect food only from our community kitchen and not from other places and organizations,” said Vazhakulam health officer Vipin P S. Kochi City police had come across two incidents of guest workers hoarding essential items in their kitchen. Kalamassery health standing committee chairperson Bindu Manoharan said incidents of guest workers wasting food was reported in her limit too. “Two days ago, two guest workers came and collected food from our community kitchen. When they reached outside the gate and noticed that the food packets contained meals instead of chapati, they threw them away. When they came next day, we refused to give them food. The number of people collecting food from community kitchen has come down now,” she said. People’s representatives from local bodies say steps should be taken to distribute grocery items to guest workers so that they can cook their own food. “There is no issue of dearth of food for guest workers. The issue is they get food in excess and sometimes they throw it away if they don’t like it. To avoid such incidents, we have to distribute them groceries. Many of them have started to cook instead of depending on community kitchens. As they started cooking at their rented places, workers are raising demand for kerosene to light stoves. We are arranging it,” said Maradu municipality councillor M V Ullas. Kalady police officers said they arrange rice and grocery items to guest workers living in five panchayats in their limits. “No community kitchen has been set up for guest workers here. We have arranged 40 sacks of rice for them and are supplying more in view of lockdown extension. Once we get a call from them about shortage of any item, we first check their kitchens to validate their claim before giving the item,” said an officer with Kalady police station.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/food-items-a-problem-of-plenty-for-guest-workers/articleshow/75111521.cms||T C Sreemol
April 13, 2020||Ahmedabad||Gujarat: Sewa women produce 5 lakh masks||AHMEDABAD: Self-Employed Women’s Association (Sewa) has produced and distributed as many as 5 lakh masks for use in the battle against Covid-19. The organization, with about 1.7 million women workers in about 18 states, started making masks as early as March 18, ahead of the nationwide lockdown. “Women living in the rural areas can’t afford surgical or N-95 masks. Initially, about 4-5 women learnt how to make masks at home. They made a video and circulated it among others. At the health centres, a master trainer is appointed to train others and maintain quality standards. So far, we have distributed 5 lakh masks produced by 500 women,” said Reema Nanavaty, director, Sewa. While the masks are distributed for free to the villagers, the women have also been getting bulk orders from clients. The masks have been priced at affordable rates. While the cost of double-layered masks is about Rs 7-10 per piece, the single layered ones cost anywhere between Rs 3-5 per mask. The masks undergo a rigorous quality and standardization check where the women are to upload videos of the masks to be scrutinized by a district level co-ordinator. The 500 women are in various districts across different states. “Women and their families are engaged in meaningful and productive work in making masks. Also, it can save women from from becoming targets of domestic stress during the lockdown period for she can continue to earn using her skills,” Nanavaty said. Children of the under-served communities are losing out on crucial months of schooling owing to the lockdown, and often difficult domestic situations are made worse by being forced to stay in close quarters. Also, the houses themselves are mostly small and densely populated, which adds to the stress generated by fear of coronavirus. “SEWA also realizes that this was a good opportunity to connect the children with their roots, whether in relation to traditions, festivals, recipes or even crafts. We are also focusing on nurturing a relationship between the children and nature by promoting the upkeep of a nature journal, teaching bird watching and sustainable agricultural practices,” said Nanavaty. In regions of Patan and Surendranagar, children of salt-pan workers have been asked to keep a diary highlighting the lives of their parents and themselves; from the hardships faced by them to the use of technology in their lives. Similarly, adolescent girls of Kutch and Patan are being encouraged to learn their traditional styles of embroideries which are losing favor with the younger generation, she added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/sewa-women-produce-5l-masks/articleshow/75113030.cms||Maulik Pathak
April 13, 2020||Mangaluru||Covid-19 patient discharged from hospital in DK||MANGALURU: A Covid-19 patient was discharged from a private medical college hospital in the city on Sunday. The 70-year-old woman, who was admitted on March 19 after returning from Saudi Arabia, was discharged after her throat swabs tested negative for Covid-19. She had arrived at Kozhikode in Kerala on March 9, and came to Mangaluru for treatment on March 19. She tested positive for Covid-19 on March 24, and was undergoing treatment at a private medical college hospital in the city. The patient was discharged after samples sent on April 7 and 8 tested negative. As on Sunday, seven patients infected with Covid-19 were discharged, reducing the active cases from 12 to five in Dakshina Kannada. All 28 reports received in the district on Sunday, tested negative for Covid-19. Similarly, no positive cases were reported in Udupi too.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mangaluru/covid-19-patient-discharged-from-hospital-in-dk/articleshow/75111531.cms||---
April 13, 2020||Goa||Trawlers use LEDs, busted||Vasco: During a raid conducted by the harbour police on Sunday, 10 fishing trawlers at Khariawada jetty were found with banned fishing equipment like LED lights. The team headed by Siddhant Shirodkar, inspector at the harbour police station, found LED lights, generators and other banned fishing items in 10 trawlers at the jetty. As the police do not have authority to seize trawlers, they took photographs of the evidence and alerted the fisheries department to take further action against the errant fishermen.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/trawlers-use-leds-busted/articleshow/75113425.cms||---
April 13, 2020||Kochi||District ready to face any emergency: Ernakulam district collector||KOCHI: Despite Ernakulam district is witnessing eight days on end without any Covid-19 positive cases, the authorities are continuing the vigil. According to the district administration, precautions and preparations to face any emergency are in place. Whatever be the decisions of the Union and state governments about relaxing the conditions of the lockdown, district administration has made adequate preparations. “We are ready to face any situation. We have collected all the data required for tackling the situation. We have collected details of the facilities in each and every government as well as private hospitals in the district. We have prepared plans for each stage of the disease’s progress,” district collector S Suhas said. “Under the leadership of chief minister Pinarayi Vijayan, all the officials, volunteers and other agencies in the district are working in unison. They are working silently with dedication to see that we will win the fight against Covid-19. Their efforts seem to have yielded results so far,” Suhas said. “We are comparatively in a better position now. But we shouldn’t be complacent,” he said.  The authorities are taking it as an opportunity to augment infrastructure of the government hospitals in the district. “K J Maxi, MLA, has offered Rs 1 crore for improving the facilities at taluk hospital at Karuvelippady. We have arranged CSR funds of various public sector undertakings for augmenting the facilities at Government Medical College, Ernakulam,” Suhas said. District administration is learnt to have prepared a plan for carrying out medical camps at labour camps of interstate migrants. Labour department has conducted survey of camps where guest workers are rehabilitated. “We will be conducting medical camps for guest workers,” Suhas said. Control room at civil station coordinates all the works, provides a platform for giving counselling for the needy and attends the calls of those, including guest workers and gives apt advice to them. Waste management is another area where the district administration focuses on. “We are providing all support for the corporation’s workers. They are doing a good job,” the collector said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/district-ready-to-face-any-emergency-collector/articleshow/75111554.cms||M K Sunil Kumar
April 13, 2020||Ahmedabad||Cellphone found in Sabarmati jail||Ahmedabad: On Sunday, when cops conducted a surprise check at the high-security Sabarmati jail, they found a cellphone from a convict. Shamshad Ansari had hidden the phone in his pyjama. An FIR filed with Ranip police says that a thorough investigation is needed to ascertain how the cellphone was smuggled inside the jail. The FIR says a probe is also needed to determine whether the phone was used to plot a criminal conspiracy.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/cellphone-found-in-sabarmati-jail/articleshow/75113036.cms||---
April 13, 2020||Kanpur||44 quarantined people test negative for corona||Kanpur: As many as 44 persons after being quarantined tested negative for Covid-19 and are being sent to their homes with certain directives. According to health bulletin, so far 905 suspected persons have been sent to their homes after due quarantine period as they tested negative. On the other hand, 5896 suspected cases have been quarantined and a few of them are being treated in a hospital. One person, who had either come from outside the district or from some foreign country, was quarantined by the health authorities on Sunday. The authorities have so far identified 6801 persons who came from outside the district and 1691 persons who had travelled abroad. Meanwhile, the district administration has received an advisory from the state government in which the authorities have been asked to ensure downloading of Aarogya App by every government official and employee at his/her mobile phone. District magistrate Brahmadeo Ram Tiwari said that door to door delivery of essential commodities was being done through 2521 provision stores. So far 73 voluntary organizations and government agencies had provided meals to 108810 persons, he said. The DM has again stressed on social distancing and asked the people to use masks whenever they go outside their house for receiving delivery or any other purpose. The police and district administration officials kept strict vigil in hotspot areas of the city. They did not allow anyone to come on road and also used drone and IIT glider for aerial surveillance of hotspot areas. Kanpur Municipal Corporation (KMC) sanitized several areas and lifted garbage from several places in the city. Under its telemedicine system around 43 persons sought medical advice for their ailments from doctors. Meanwhile, some more people donated money for feeding the poor and needy. Pranveer Singh, chairman, PSIT presented a cheque of Rs 20 lakh to the chief minister’s relief fund. BJP MLA Surendra Maithani washed the feet of sanitary workers at Pando Nagar and felicitated them. He said they (sanitary workers) are frontline warriors against coronavirus. The authorities have given green signal to 50 industrial units of Rania industrial estate in Kanpur Dehat to start operation. These units manufacture essential commodities such as flour, soap, pulses and oil.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kanpur/44-quarantined-people-test-negative-for-corona/articleshow/75112362.cms||---
April 13, 2020||Kanpur||40-year-old man tests positive for Covid-19 in Etawah||Kanpur: A 40-year-old man from Jaswaqntnagar area of Etawah has tested positive for the novel coronavirus on Sunday. “The sample reports of throat and nasal swab of 41 persons were sent to Saifai medical university on April 10, of which a 40-year-old man was found to be positive for Covid-19 while 40 others tested negative,” said district magistrate Etawah JB Singh. The man has been admitted to a hospital and his condition is stable, he added. A senior official told TOI that the borders of the village which comes under the Jaswantnagar tehsil of the district where the victim belongs to were sealed and any movement of residents in the one km radius was banned. He said the protocol for the Covid-19 victim was being strictly followed. Checkposts have been erected at all entry points of the village concerned and police personnel deployed there. The health department officials have been asked to examine the locals on a regular basis and send reports to the district headquarters. “The villagers have been told not to venture out from their houses. The essential commodities, including medicines, will be provided to them,” the official said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kanpur/40-year-old-man-tests-positive-for-covid-19-in-etawah/articleshow/75112374.cms||Faiz Rahman Siddiqui
April 13, 2020||Pune||Day temperature to hover around 40°C for next 5 days in Pune, forecasts IMD||PUNE: The day temperature in the city has gone up steadily in the last five days — from 35.9°C on April 8 to 39.1°C on Sunday. The India Metrological Department (IMD) has forecast the day temperature to hover around 40°C in the next five days. On Sunday, the IMD observatories in Shivajinagar and Lohegaon recorded maximum temperatures of 39.1°C and 39.3°C respectively. The same were 1.5 and 1.3 degrees above normal, respectively. Anupam Kashyapi, head of IMD’s forecast division, told TOI, “The day temperature in Pune will remain around 40°C in the next few days. Since it is mid-summer period, the mercury-level is expected to remain in the same range.” “As far as the night temperature is concerned, it will hover around 20 and 22°C in Shivajinagar and Lohegaon, respectively,” he added. On Sunday, the Shivajinagar and Lohegaon observatories recorded 22.4°C and 23.8°C, which were above normal by 2.5 and 3.8 degrees Celsius, respectively. “The rising temperatures is because of moisture-laden winds blowing over Madhya Maharashtra region from the Arabian sea. This will result in wind discontinuity causing thunder activity and light rainfall in the region. Such weather will continue on a regular interval during the next few days of the week,” Kashyapi said. On Saturday, some parts of the city and district received rainfall with thunder and lightning. The Konkan and Goa region, which has been receiving rainfall since Friday, will continue to get rainfall for the next few days. Similarly, the Marathwada and Vidarbha regions will also get rain with thundery activity for the next few days, the India Metrological Department said. In the Madhya Maharashtra region, Jalgaon and Solapur recorded 42.6°C and 40.8°C respectively. In Marathwada region, three out of five met stations recorded 40°C or above temepratures. In Vidarbha, six stations recorded above 40°C temperatures, a met official said. In Maharashtra, Akola recorded the highest day-time temperature, which was 42.8°C. Mahabaleshwar in Satara district recorded the lowest minimum temperature at 20°C.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/day-temperature-to-hover-around-40c-for-next-5-days-forecasts-imd/articleshow/75113034.cms||---
April 13, 2020||Pune||Airport in Pune gears up for flyers, operation date still not clear||PUNE: Preparations are on at the city airport to maintain social distancing with proper markings amid uncertainty over whether flight operations will resume from April 15 or not. Pune airport director Kuldeep Singh said while they were awaiting an official confirmation about the continuation of the lockdown, they were preparing for the passenger inflow. “We are drawing markings inside and outside the terminal for the passengers to stand,” he said. A source said the markings were being made at the arrival and departure sections and the security hold areas of the facility. “While the contingent of the Central Industrial Security Force at the Pune airport has been alerted, we need to ensure many other things” the source said. “At present, we don’t have any update on whether flight operations will remain suspended after April 14 or no,” another official said. Many passengers on Twitter claimed that their tickets after April 14 were being cancelled by various airlines. Replying to an email sent to the chairman of the Airports Authority of India (AAI), on whether flight operations would begin and what would be the new procedures to follow, the corporate communications department said, “Standard Operating Procedures (SOPs) on airport operations post-lockdown will be in place as per the directions of regulator. We will let you know the same soon.” Travel operators said queries were coming in but they were telling the clients to wait. “We are advising people to wait before booking their flights. If at all the government decides to extend the flight suspension, they will be in a fix as getting refunds in the present situation has become difficult,” said Nilesh Bhansali, director of Travel Agents Association of Pune.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/airport-gears-up-for-flyers-operation-date-still-not-clear/articleshow/75113044.cms||Joy Sengupta
April 13, 2020||Kanpur||Four held for molesting nurses in Chamanganj||Kanpur: Four persons were arrested for molesting health staff nurses doing corona survey in hotspot area in Chamanganj locality of the city on Saturday. According to police, the nurses were doing a survey related to coronavirus when the incident took place. Inspector Chamanganj Raj Bahadur said, as per the nurses, the molesters showed airgun to them and threatened them of dire consequences while they were trying to aware people door-to-door about the deadly pandemic in the Chamanganj area, which was declared as a hotspot. Police have arrested the four accused on the basis of the complaint filed by the nurses. “Those arrested were identified as Kaleem, Amjad Ansari, Wajih Ahmad and Salim. They have been booked under relevant sections including section 354 of IPC. Further investigations are underway in this regard,” the inspector further said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kanpur/four-held-for-molesting-nurses-in-chamanganj/articleshow/75112396.cms||---
April 13, 2020||Ahmedabad||Technical institutes discuss future plan||AHMEDABAD: While the 21-day lockdown period to fight the spread of Covid-19 may be extended beyond April 14, it is the further course of action the self-financed technical institutes are concerned about the most. Several institutes of the city held a meting and discussed the issue on Sunday. “The meeting was held to discuss about various measures that we need to take in the event of the extension of the lockdown period,” said one of the participants at the meeting. “One of the main issues discussed was about the annual examination of colleges. While many were of the view that the exams should be conducted online, some suggested that they should be based on optical mark recognition (OMR),” added the participant.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/tech-institutes-discuss-future-plan/articleshow/75113041.cms||---
April 13, 2020||Pune||Control room sees rise in calls reporting hooch sale||PUNE: Late on Saturday night, the police control room received a call from the Market Yard area complaining about some people selling hooch to local slum dwellers. A team from Market Yard police station and another from the crime branch rushed to the location. However, neither teams found anything amiss at the spot. Similarly, another caller reported a shopkeeper at Nana Peth, who had opened his store to sell cigarettes and other tobacco products to local residents late on Friday night. Police teams from crime branch and Samarth police station rushed to the spot and found the shop closed. The number of such calls has been increasing ever since the lockdown was announced. An officer at the Pune police’s control room told TOI that such calls were negligible earlier but over the last week, the number has risen to 10-30 calls per night. Additional commissioner of police (crime) Ashok Morale said, “In the last 10-12 days such calls have increased. The number of crime-related calls after very few.” Earlier, the control room would receive more calls about crime related to eve-teasing, vehicle thefts, accidents, cases house break-in, and others. “We received very few calls pertaining to activities such as illegal gambling dens, illegal hooch dens, and others,” he said. Morale said that many calls made to the control room are mischievous. “We verify all calls. Some complaints are genuine and minor amount of liquor has been seized. Similarly, in some cases the gambling den operators have scooted from the area after spotting the police parties,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/control-room-sees-rise-in-calls-reporting-hooch-sale/articleshow/75113040.cms||---
April 13, 2020||Pune||With grapes yet to be harvested, farmers could transform ripe berries into raisins||PUNE: The ICAR-National Research Centre for Grapes (NRC-Grapes) Pune, under the Indian Council of Agricultural Research, New Delhi, has advised grape farmers who were unable to harvest or sell their produce due to Covid-19 pandemic to convert ‘table grapes’ to ‘raisins’ by drying the berries on the vine. Around 90,000 acres to 1 lakh acres of area growing grapes in Maharashtra are yet to be harvested at a time when there is no manpower. This means that around 10-12 lakh metric tonnes of grapes are still on the vine, awaiting harvest, R G Somkuwar, director, NRC Grapes, Pune, told TOI on Thursday. “Grape farmers have been hit very hard in this fruit-pruning season, initially due to prolonged and continuous rain on account of back to back cyclones during October-November, 2019, and later, the turmoil caused due to Covid-19. Lack of export and no takers in the domestic market have posed a double whammy for grape growers. Majority of grapes are grown for table purposes, and now, farmers do not know what to do with the produce,” he said. Somkuwar said that raisins could be made from harvested grapes. Whether the grapes are on the vine or harvested they have to be dried to convert them into raisins. “We have been telling the farmers to convert the unused grapes into raisins. Accordingly, articles in local languages were published in newspapers and the information is being forwarded through social media. To convert grapes into raisins, farmers have to spray a chemical on the grapevine and allow the grapes to dry. The process of drying takes about 12 to 14 days. So, farmers can let the grapes on the vines to dry. Then dried grape bunches could be harvested once manpower is available. If the grapevines are left as it is without subjecting them to the drying process, grapes on the vine may begin to rot or dry,” he said. To increase sugar in grape berries for higher raisin recovery, irrigation to the vine should be either stopped or kept under control, he added. This will also help in achieving early drying of grapes on the vine. He added that grapes, after drying to about 70%, can be removed from the vine and dried under the shade. “In case it rains, efforts should be made to increase the air circulation to reduce humidity in the vineyard and moisture on the berries. Farmers must fumigate the raisin using sulphur. This will help in conversion of brown raisin to uniform yellow-coloured raisin. After the grapes are dried to 14-16% moisture content, they are cleaned, graded, packed and then stored in the packhouse/ cold storage at a temperature of 4-6°C,” said Somkuwar.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/with-grapes-yet-to-be-harvested-farmers-could-transform-ripe-berries-into-raisins/articleshow/75113049.cms||Neha Madaan
April 13, 2020||Kanpur||Medical stores to give details of paracetamol purchasers||Kanpur: Medical stores of the district have been instructed to sell paracetamol or other medicines for cough, coryza and fever and breathing problems only after registering the name, address and contact number of the purchaser. The district administration has geared up efforts to check the infection of COVID-19 in the city and screen the suspected cases at every level. As per the new measure, if anyone suffering from fever, cough or coryza purchases paracetamol tablets, the administration will commence their tracking because they could be a suspected case of coronavirus. The divisional commissioner Dr Sudhir M Bobde on Saturday directed medical stores to sell paracetamol to only customers only after jotting down the name, address and contact number of the purchaser. DMs of all six districts in the division have been instructed by the drug administration to inform all medical stores about the same. The medical stores will then provide details of the paracetamol purchaser to the district administration. The administration will track the purchasers with the help of health department. If anyone appears to be a suspected patient, they will be tested and quarantined at their home. Besides, medical stores and doctors too have to prepare a record of any patient showing covid symptoms, and provide the details to the health department . Drug inspector Sandesh Maurya informed, “Searching and tracking coronavirus suspected cases was a big challenge. But as per instructions, all medical stores have been informed and they will pass on record of such purchase to the department daily.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kanpur/medical-stores-to-give-details-of-paracetamol-purchasers/articleshow/75112415.cms||---
April 13, 2020||Agra||Cases in Agra, UP’s Covid-19 epicentre, cross the 100-mark||Agra: With 12 fresh cases of novel coronavirus surfacing in the district in a day, the tally for Agra district, which has emerged as the epicentre of Covid-19 outbreak in Uttar Pradesh, crossed the 100-mark on Sunday. With 104 cases so far, Agra has reported the highest number of cases in the state while its neighbouring districts – Firozabad (16), Mathura (4) and Hathras (4) – have also seen spurt in the number of cases. Besides the city, from where majority of the cases have been reported, the district administration is now facing a major challenge to stop the spread of the pandemic in the rural areas. Of late, Covid-19 positive cases have surfaced in Sainya, Khandoli and Fatehpur Sikri blocks of the district. A doctor at the Sainya block community health centre had tested positive recently. Out of the 104 coronavirus cases in Agra, 52 are related to people who had attended the Tablighi Jamaat event in Delhi’s Nizamuddin and their contacts. Another 11 patients have had direct overseas travel history while the remaining are all contacts of the people who tested positive earlier. Two hospitals and a clinic have emerged as major Covid-19 hotspots in the city. So far, 16 positive cases – nine of them on Sunday – related to a private hospital on National Highway 2 have surfaced. A 76-year-old admitted to the hospital had later tested positive following which the staff were screened. Another six cases, including two doctors and two paramedics, had been found at a private hospital in Namner locality. Then, another five cases, including a doctor and his compounder, had surfaced at a clinic in Ghatiya Azam Khan locality of Agra city. Meanwhile, a doctor and ward boy serving in the isolation ward of SN Medical College tested positive. Last week, a 53-year-old woman who had tested positive for Covid-19 had died at the hospital. The health department has collected samples of over 2,100 people in the district which has witnessed over one-fifth of state’s total 480 cases. Around 700 people have been shifted to institutional quarantine and 350 people to isolation ward. Another 4,306 people have been home-quarantined. Police are monitoring the lockdown through drone-mounted cameras and CCTVs connected to the Agra smart city project’s Integrated Command and Control Centre (ICCC). Chief medical officer Dr Mukesh Kumar Vats said, “All the 12 new Covid-19 patients have been shifted to an isolation facility. A team of doctors is attending to them. People are being screened in the area around their houses and the places they had visited. Their contacts are being identified. We will conduct a health checkup of all these people.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/agra/cases-in-agra-ups-covid-19-epicentre-cross-the-100-mark/articleshow/75112370.cms||---
April 13, 2020||Kanpur||Three hotspots merged into 1 in city; cops on duty not allowed to go home||Kanpur: The district administration has merged the three coronavirus hotspots of Macharia Naubasta and converted them into a single area for their administrative convenience. The three areas which were declared as Covid hotbeds in Naubasta are Khair Masjid, Naseemabad Masjid and Madrassa Hidayat-Ullah. Police had sealed all three areas by placing barriers separately. As per SSP/DIG Anant Deo, “Since the three hotspots are close to each other, it was decided to cover the gaps and and treat them as a single hotspot so that it can be supervised more efficiently.” The police covered the area up till White House Nullah on Friday and sealed the branches of State bank of India, Central bank of India, Bank of India and Axis bank. The police later took 17 students of Hidayat-Ullah Madrassa to the hospital for Covid-19 test. Besides, the medical team collected swab samples of four more persons of the area. Meanwhile, police officials rendering services amid the pandemic have not been allowed to go home due to medical reasons. “The cops who have come in contact with suspected/confirmed coronavirus patients while taking them to the hospital or performing duties in their wards at the hospital, have been identified by the administration. They will be quarantined for 14 days in the 100-bed quarantine barracks arranged at Reserved Police Lines,” said IG (Kanpur range) Mohit Agarwal. Besides, a team of around 40 doctors who attended to suspected and confirmed covid cases, have been quarantined for 14 days starting from the intervening night of Friday and Saturday. Professor R K Maurya said the quarantined doctors would follow the complete protocol and a new team of doctors replaced them from midnight.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kanpur/three-hotspots-merged-into-1-in-city-cops-on-duty-not-allowed-to-go-home/articleshow/75102458.cms||---
April 13, 2020||Kochi||Covid-19: Kerala yet to get rapid test kits from abroad||KOCHI: The state health department has come out with guidelines for rapid testing, even as they wait for the one lakh rapid test kits from China and Korea. Chief minister Pinarayi Vijayan had announced on March 28 that the state will go in for rapid testing to help gauge more quickly and effectively the extent of the virus’s spread within threatened communities. However, with no kits available in the state, the tests are yet to start. The state government that had at first placed orders with companies in China and Korea are now looking at other global manufacturers to import the kits. “We want to be prepared and ensure that we don’t lose time once the rapid test kits arrive in the state,” said principal health secretary Dr Rajan N Khobragade. There is a huge demand for rapid test kits from across the globe. Firms in India, including Rajiv Gandhi Centre for Biotechnology (RGCB) in Thiruvananthapuram, are working to develop prototypes of low-cost rapid test kits. “It is all in the experimentation phase in India and have not yet been launched commercially,” added Dr Khobragade. However, delay in starting community tests is a concern for health authorities here. “To know the actual situation of Covid-19 spread in the state, we need to immediately concentrate on identifying community transmission of the coronavirus and herd immunity in the population. There is immense pressure from every district to start rapid tests,” said Dr K P Aravindan, member of Kerala government's medical advisory panel on Covid management. “Countries that have succeeded to control infection had opted for rapid testing. If we don’t increase our testing, we may develop a false sense of security and that would prove to be detrimental,” said IMA Hospital Board of India chairman Dr Jayakrishnan A V.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/state-yet-to-get-rapid-test-kits-from-abroad/articleshow/75111568.cms||---
April 13, 2020||Thiruvananthapuram||Relief as only two test positive in Kerala on Sunday||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM/KANNUR: It was a day of relief for the state as only two positive cases were reported on Sunday while 36 people recovered and tested negative for the disease. Out of the 36 who recovered, 28 are from Kasaragod. Among them, 26 were undergoing treatment at the General Hospital, the district’s first Covid-19 hospital. They were discharged after getting medical board’s approval. District medical officer (DMO) A V Ramdas said 11 patients were discharged on Saturday. “As many as 166 people tested positive for Covid, out of which 61 have been discharged. This means a recovery rate of 37%, which is higher compared to the national recovery rate of 11.4%,” he said, adding that in the US, the recovery rate was only 5.4. The total number of cases reported in the state have increased to 375, of which, 179 have been discharged. At present, 194 people are undergoing treatment. Of the two cases reported on Sunday, one is from Kannur and the other from Pathanamthitta. Both of them are UAE returnees, one from Dubai and the other from Sharjah. “It was a day of relief and hope as 36 patients under treatment in the state have recovered from coronavirus infection,” said health minister K K Shailaja. Apart from the 28 persons from Kasaragod (including two who were undergoing treatment in Kannur), six from Malappuram, and one each from Kozhikode and Idukki were the others who tested negative for the virus. The minister said the number of people under observation in the state has further come down continuing the trend from the past few days. As many as 6,549 people who were under home quarantine were relieved of observation. Till date, 14,989 samples from people with symptoms have been sent for testing and the results of 13,802 samples have turned out to be negative. The Pathanamthitta district administration, on Sunday, released the route map of the man who tested positive for Covid-19. He had reached the state capital on March 22 in an Air India flight from Sharjah and was admitted to the hospital with symptoms on April 11. The health department has issued a revised guideline for conducting rapid antibody testing to check whether there is any community spread in the state. While people under home quarantine were the top priority for random sampling in the guideline issued earlier, the revised guideline says random sampling will be first conducted among health workers, doctors and other staff involved in Covid-19 care and prevention of the infection. One of the discharged patients from Kasaragod has been under the customs scanner for his suspected illegal activities. The man, who had arrived from Naif, Dubai, on March 11, attended several social functions before he was tested positive on March 19. Two MLAs were forced to go under quarantine after the man had interacted with them.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/thiruvananthapuram/relief-as-only-2-test-positive-on-sunday/articleshow/75111583.cms||P Sudhakaran
April 13, 2020||Kanpur||Spurious liquor claims two lives, six ill amid lockdown in Uttar Pradesh||KANPUR: Two persons including a health worker died and six others including a village head fell ill after consuming spurious liquor in Mawai Bhacchan village in Sajeti area of the district on Sunday. The state government had decided to shut liquor shops soon after the nationwide lockdown was imposed. The district administration had also sounded an alert to prevent and arrest those involved in producing spurious liquor. The deceased was identified as Anup Sachan (32), a truck driver and Ankit Sachan (32), a health worker posted at the TB clinic of a community health centre (CHC) in Amauli block of Fatehpur district. Both were residents of Mawai Bhacchan village. The village head Randheer Singh and five others—Puttan, Lal Ji Vishwakarma, Vivek, Prince and Raman—had fallen ill after consuming liquor and our undergoing treatment at Lal Lajpat Rai Hospital. Police said Anup and Ankit were declared brought dead at LLR Hospital on Sunday morning. During preliminary investigations, it came to fore that the truck driver Anup had managed to bring liquor bottles on Friday night and later distributed them among villagers including the aforementioned seven people. They all consumed the spurious liquor on the same night. On Saturday morning, they vomited and complained of nausea and uneasiness. It was in the afternoon, when their condition started deteriorating further that their family members took them to Ghatampur CHC. Doctors there, however, referred them to LLR hospital, where Anup and Ankit were declared brought dead. “Police are trying to find out the place from where Anup managed to secure spurious liquor bottles during th lockdown period,” said SSP/DIG Anant Deo said. DM Dr Brahmdeo Ram Tiwari and SSP also visited LLR Hospital and inquired about the condition of the six persons undergoing treatment. “Doctors stated conditions of all six to be stable,” added Deo. The DM, meanwhile, said, “In wake of the tragedy, I have instructed district excise department and police officials to form teams and launch a massive search operation in villages from where spurious liquor has been caught before.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kanpur/spurious-liquor-claims-two-lives-six-ill-amid-lockdown/articleshow/75112430.cms||Faiz Rahman Siddiqui
April 13, 2020||Kozhikode||Muslim institutions offer space for isolation wards||Kozhikode: Muslim organisations in the state have expressed their willingness to convert the institutions under them as quarantine centres to accommodate the Keralites who are stranded in the Gulf countries. They offered all assistance if the Malayalees who are stranded in the Gulf after the Covid 19 outbreak are brought back.IUML state president and vice-president of Samastha Kerala Jam-Iyyathul Ulema, Panakkad Syed Hyder Ali Thangal said the orphanages and other institutions will be handed over to the authorities to be used as isolation homes.Kanthapuram A P Aboobacker Musliyar, general secretary of All India Sunni Scholars Association, said institutions under his organizations including Jamia Markaz will be opened for quarantine. Kanthapuram said he has written a letter to Prime Minister and external affairs minister seeking their intervention to bring back those stranded in the Gulf, especially pregnant, aged and those who had gone on visiting visas.Markaz also gave 1,000 PPE kits for Kozhikode Medical College Kozhikode.Kerala Nadvathul Mujahideen (KNM) said that the organisation is ready to handover institutions including mosques to accommodate the Gulf Malayalees. In a statement issued here, KNM president T P Abdulla Koya Madani said many organisations have already handed over institutions to the government.Wisdom Islamic Organisation also expressed its willingness to utilise its institutions as isolation homes for Gulf Malayalees. Jamaát-e-Islami has also announced that it will open all its institutions to meet the requirements of the NRKs.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kozhikode/muslim-institutions-offer-space-for-isolation-wards/articleshow/75111588.cms||---
April 13, 2020||Kanpur||18-year-old suspect dies at LLR hosp||Kanpur: An 18-year-old youth, who was admitted to Lala Lajpat Rai hospital (LLR) as a coronavirus suspect, died late on Saturday evening. His test reports are awaited, said chief medical superintendent LLR hospital Dr RK Maurya. The youth, a resident of a village in Ghatampur, was earlier admitted at a private nursing home in Ghatampur on Friday, and was later shifted to the LLR hospital on Saturday with symptoms of breathlessness, cough and fever, Dr Maurya said. "On Saturday evening, he was kept on ventilator, but he vomited and later died," Dr Maurya said and added that though the youth was not Covid-19 positive, but his body was handed to his family members as per the protocol issued by the central government.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kanpur/18-year-old-suspect-dies-at-llr-hosp/articleshow/75112423.cms||---
April 13, 2020||Pune||Banks adopt ways to avoid direct contact||PUNE: From urging customers to use ATMs for withdrawals of up to Rs 25,000 to strictly using machines to count currency notes, banks have introduced a slew of measures to ensure the safety of their employees, who continue to work even during the lockdown as banking falls under the “essential services” category.  “We have been provided with stickers stating ‘Officials on duty’ for hassle-free travel. We have also obtained separate police passes for commuting. These passes bear our names and vehicle number, among other details. We are also able to re-fuel our vehicles at petrol pumps on producing our identity cards,” a private bank employee said. Several banks are ensuring that only 50% of their staffers work on any given day. “Besides, our security guards have been told to ensure that only five customers are allowed inside the premises at a time, that too after using sanitiser. We have installed ropes a little distance from the counters and customers cannot move beyond the rope. We are also strictly using machines to count currency notes, even if it is a small sum,” a senior employee of a public sector bank said. He said the bank had provided them with gloves, masks and hand sanitisers as a precautionary measure. “We were issued fresh identity cards stating “on-duty officers” for travel purposes. We have also been told to wash our hands every one hour,” he added. A senior official from a cooperative bank said, “First of all, the bank hours have been changed during this period. The counters are open from 9.30am to 2.30pm, after which we head back home. We have been provided with rotational shifts to ensure isolation after working a few days.” He added, “The reduction in staff has not had a major impact on work as the workload has reduced significantly. Most people have taken to online transactions. For those who still visit the bank, we are allowing only two customers inside at a time. The guard ensures that the customer uses the sanitiser before entering the premises. It is compulsory for the customers to wear a mask. We have been told to minimize cash handling and cater to very limited withdrawals.” According to the employee, children below the age of 10 years and senior citizens above 60 years of age have been restricted from entering the bank.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/banks-adopt-ways-to-avoid-direct-contact/articleshow/75113059.cms||Rujuta Parekh
April 13, 2020||Agra||Man, 22, dies in city, Covid-19 suspected||Agra: A 22-year-old man, who was under quarantine after showing symptoms of Covid-19 for the last three days, died at Agra’s SN Medical College (SNMC) on Sunday due to respiratory failure. He was tested negative for Covid-19 a few days ago, but was kept under observation at a quarantine facility in city’s Runkata area. A fresh sample of the man was collected for lab testing just hours before he died. A resident of Bodlaa area, he used to work at a shop. On April 5, he started suffering from high fever and cough, and went to a nearby drug store and took medicine. On April 10, the man reached the district hospital as he got no relief from medicine, and also started having problem in breathing. On Sunday morning, he complained of breathlessness and was shifted from the quarantine facility to the hospital, where he later died. Chief medical officer of Agra, Dr Mukesh Kumar Vats said, “The man was suspected to be suffering from novel coronavirus, and was quarantined. He was tested negative earlier, but was suffering from high fever and severe breathlessness. His condition deteriorated on Sunday morning and he was rushed to SNMC. Doctors tried, but could not save him. He died of respiratory failure.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/agra/man-22-dies-in-city-covid-19-suspected/articleshow/75112391.cms||---
April 13, 2020||Kanpur||IIT-K dir’s fake account created, case lodged||Kanpur: Cyber criminals have created a fake account on Facebook in the name of the director of IIT-Kanpur. When the director came to know about it, he lodged a formal complaint with the Kalyanpur police station following which a case was registered under the IT Act. The fake account also has an image of the institute director Prof Abhay Karandikar. The person, who had created the fake profile, used it for extorting money from close relatives of the institute’s director. It was at this point of time that Prof Karandikar came to know about it and lodged a police complaint. Inspector, Kalyanpur police station, Ajay Seth, said that an FIR under IT Act has been registered on Saturday on the complaint of IIT-K director. He said further investigation is underway.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kanpur/iit-k-dirs-fake-account-created-case-lodged/articleshow/75102464.cms||---
April 13, 2020||Pune||Class XII science textbooks blend theory with practicals||PUNE: The new textbooks for class XII will include topics like the spread of Covid-19, surrogacy and late pregnancy as subjects to encourage students to read and undertake research. Activities like browsing through information about Covid-19 with respect to structure, modes of infection, preventive measures and treatment have been included. These are among many activities or projects mentioned in the class XII Biology textbook prepared by Balbharati (Maharashtra State Bureau of Textbook Production & Curriculum Research) for state board students. The textbooks have been uploaded on the e-balbharati website. The revised textbooks have a better look and more snippets providing information about the latest scientific developments across the country. “The exercises have also adopted a Multiple Choice Question pattern keeping in mind that students may appear for entrance examinations in future,” said Rajiv Patole, special officer for science section at Balbharati. “We have introduced small snippets and asked questions to fuel curiosity in students to encourage them to go beyond textbooks to find answers. We want students to gain application-based knowledge,” said Chandrashekhar Murumkar, chairman of the committee for science textbooks. Green chemistry and nanochemistry have been introduced in the applied chemistry section of the book to help students understand the importance of sustainable development. “From a simple sunscreen that uses nanoparticles to electronics and medicinal sectors that have tremendous use of nanotechnology, students must know nanochemistry’s scope,” said Sushama Jog, convener for chemistry textbooks committee. Dilip Jog, convener of the physics textbook committee said, “We need students to understand the concepts better and develop a problem-solving capacity to face the competitive world ahead.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/class-xii-science-textbooks-blend-theory-with-practicals/articleshow/75113061.cms||Ardhra Nair
April 13, 2020||Delhi||Returning from Covid-19 duty, doc dies in hit & run||New Delhi: A doctor returning from his duty at a corona screening centre in south Delhi was killed after a car hit the bicycle he was riding on Monday evening. A senior corporation official told TOI that Dr JP Yadav was returning home from Munirka polyclinic on his son’s bicycle as he could not get his car repaired because of the ongoing lockdown. The deceased doctor’s wife is a radiologist in a private hospital and he is survived by a son and a daughter. “After increase in corona cases in the capital, the clinic has been turned into a Covid-19 screening centre. Dr Yadav was heading this centre,” said a senior doctor. “On Monday, he was returning home after distributing personal protective equipment kits at the clinic,” Dr Yadav’s colleague added. When Dr Yadav was returning home in Greater Kailash around 3 pm, a car hit him from behind near Merauli’s Aurobindo Road at PTS Chowk. “A PCR van took the doctor to Max hospital where he was declared dead,” his colleague said. A senior police officer said that it is a case of hit-and- run as of now and efforts are being made to track down the car driver.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/returning-from-covid-19-duty-doc-dies-in-hit-run/articleshow/75131203.cms||---
April 13, 2020||Kochi||25 quarantined as Palakkad man tests Covid-19 positive||PALAKKAD: The swabs and blood samples collected from a 70-year-old man from Nurani in the district, who died in a private hospital in Coimbatore on Friday, tested positive for Covid-19, sparking panic among relatives, neighbours and health department authorities as it is suspected that he had come into contact with hundreds of people. As many as 25 people, including a doctor and 19 nurses of the hospital in Coimbatore and his family members in Nurani have been sent to quarantine. His wife and son were admitted to the isolation ward of the district hospital here while other close relatives have been kept under observation. Their swab samples have been sent for testing, said district medical officer Dr K P Reetha. She said the Nurani native’s name was not included while compiling the Covid-19 tally of the state. Tamil Nadu has also not included him in its death list as he had come from Palakkad for treatment. The travel details of the man show that he was at the cash counter of his hardware shop at the main whole sale market in the city and interacted with at least 50-100 customers till March 25 on a daily basis. He used to frequent the fruits godown opposite his hardware shop as well, sources said. Lorries from north India arrive at the godown frequently at nights. On March 25, he developed abdominal pain and vomiting and was taken to Lakshmi Hospital in a car by his son. He consulted doctors at Palakkad Diabetic Centre after the symptoms persisted and was referred to a hospital in Coimbatore, where he got admitted on April 2. On April 5, he developed chest pain and was shifted to Chennai Hospital in Coimbatore and was put on ventilator. He tested positive for Covid-19 on April 8 and died on April 10. On April 11 his second swab also tested positive.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/25-quarantined-as-palakkad-man-tests-covid-19-positive/articleshow/75111622.cms||---
April 13, 2020||Thiruvananthapuram||Norka sets up helpdesk in 9 nations for trapped Malayalis||Thiruvananthapuram: Intensifying its activities to help Keralites trapped in foreign countries during Covid-19 pandemic, Norka department has set up helpdesks in nine more countries, majority in the Gulf region where there is a significant population of NRKs. Norka (Non-Resident Keralites Affairs) has already set up helpdesks in emirates in the UAE with the help of Malayali organisations, and now the service has been extended to Qatar, Oman, Saudi Arabia, Bahrain, Kuwait, UK, Indonesia, Mozambique and Bangladesh. Besides, Norka helpdesks have also been set up for Malayalis trapped in Indian states. Chief minister Pinarayi Vijayan said there is possibility of a massive influx of NRKs once the lockdown and restrictions across the borders are lifted, “which stresses the need for chalking out rehabilitation packages for the returnees by central and state governments”. “In UAE, steps have been initiated to shift Covid-19 patients to hospitals, and with the help of organizations, food is provided to all Malayalis out there who are in need,” the CM said, lauding the efforts of organizations. The quarantine facilities and arrangements to provide food have been ensured by UAE consul general in a discussion held, Vijayan said. Norka and Kerala Pravasi Welfare Board have come out with relief measures, including financial assistance, for NRKs and returnees. The welfare board will give Rs 1,000 each to its pension beneficiaries numbering around 15,000. Also, the board will give Rs 10,000 each to welfare fund members testing positive for Covid-19. Norka will provide Rs 5,000 each as immediate assistance to those NRKs with valid passport and job visa who are unable to return to their resident countries and to those whose job visa expired during the lockdown. The NRKs tested positive for Covid-19 and not covered by the welfare schemes will be provided Rs 10,000 each after bringing them under Norka’s ‘Santhwana’ scheme. Meanwhile, the CM has clarified that the government has not promised to send any medical team to the UAE in a special flight, as being reported citing a letter sent by the managing director of a Kerala-based healthcare group to Dubai Health Authority (DHA). The individual who has written the letter does not represent the state. The government does not approve such actions that are in violation of the protocol to be followed, the CM has informed DHA director general Humaid Al Qutami.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/thiruvananthapuram/norka-sets-up-helpdesk-in-9-nations-for-trapped-malayalis/articleshow/75111615.cms||---
April 13, 2020||Dehradun||Don’t leave out bylanes in sanitisation drive: Residents||DEHRADUN: Following the special sanitisation drive early this month initiated by Dehradun Municipal Corporation (DMC) covering all the 100 wards, the residents of localities like Dalanwala, Old Survey Road and Mayur Vihar have demanded sanitisation in the entire area, and not just the main roads. The residents of Dalanwala area said that several bylanes are being left out in the drive. Talking to TOI, Mahesh Bhandari, president of Doon residents welfare front and a resident of Municipal Road, said, “A lot of people take bylanes and a number of houses are situated here. Therefore, the DMC must sanitise these left-out spots as well. It will only make our neighborhood safer.” Another resident of Old Survey Road, Dr SL Gupta, who is also the president of the RWA, said, “I was relieved when I heard that DMC is now sanitising the residential areas as well. However, somehow our locality was not covered. I hope in the days to come whenever DMC launches another drive, our locality is also sanitised.” However, officials of the civic body said that right now, sanitisation drive is more relevant for areas that has Covid-19 cases or have been declared hotspots. Kailash Joshi, chief municipal health officer, said, “The sanitisation using the sodium hypochlorite solution is needed when there is a possibility of virus spread in the area. It is routinely being done in hotspots, areas with positive cases and areas under community surveillance. As and when the requirement is felt in public interest, the sanitisation drive will take place again.” Meanwhile, the families living in Astha Villa Society of Kewal Vihar on Sahastradhar Road honoured the only sanitation worker in the area with garlands made from currency notes for his dedicated services during lockdown. In addition, the residents showered flowers on him on Sunday when he came to clean the locality and collect garbage from the households. Sadhna Sharma, a resident of Ashta Villa, said, “Laxman has not taken a single day off since the lockdown and he is the only sanitation worker taking care of the entire area. It was important to boost his morale and our way of saying thanks for his services.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/dont-leave-out-bylanes-in-sanitisation-drive-residents/articleshow/75112428.cms||---
April 13, 2020||Kozhikode||Helping kids creatively tackle lockdown||Kannur: It was conceived as a creative project by the Grama Panchayat Library, Valapattanam, in the district to bring the students together and nurture their talent during the summer vacation. But before it could take off the Covid-19 threat struck, pushing everybody indoors.However, the librarian, Binoy Mathew, was not ready to give up and he rehashed the project into a virtual platform using WhatsApp, and the project, christened ‘Creative Homes-Defeat Covid’, has over 170 students as participants in seven groups, and also their mentors in each group are busy fine-tuning their skills. “We reshaped this concept using the mobile platform, to nurture the creativity and social interaction of the young students during the lockdown, at the same time making sure that the use of the cellphone is minimal,” said Mathew. As part of this, the participants are given some creative tasks, ranging from storytelling and origami to painting and craft, and even artistic creation using abandoned materials. Though it began as a small WhatsApp group, now there are seven groups comprising an average of 20-25 students each and they are given the activities in regular intervals. Though each member in the group can present his or her creation in their group, it will have a common thread. When the participants are asked to create origami, they are told to present it as a story. This way there develops a communication between the participants as well. After completion of each round, a winner group is also selected. This apart, the students also get the chance to interact with writers and other eminent personalities. A couple of days ago acclaimed children’s writer Sippy Pallipuram interacted with them. In the coming days they will be asked to document the memories of the elderly members at home and also the lifestyle changes in the lockdown period. “This is a new experience where entertainment and knowledge sharing take place simultaneously, and it has helped improve our skills and talent,” said Nida Fathima, a Class-XIII student. “The platform has evolved into a virtual exhibition ground and dozens of works are exhibited here,” said Lallu Sasidharan, a Montessori teacher and one among the mentors.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kozhikode/helping-kids-creatively-tackle-lockdown/articleshow/75111618.cms||P Sudhakaran
April 13, 2020||Hubballi||KC Circle flyover proposal may become reality soon||HUBBALLI: A long-pending demand to construct a flyover at the busy Kittur Chennamma Circle appears to be slowly turning into a reality with the Union government sanctioning Rs 300 crore for the project. Union parliamentary affairs, coal and mines minister Prahlad Joshi has said the Union ministry for road transport and highways has responded positively to the proposal. “The ministry has approved the project. And the project is at tender stage,” he said. “The elevated corridor flyover would reduce the traffic congestion in the heart of the city and Union minister Nitin Gadkari has agreed for the project,” he added. Speaking to TOI, national highways assistant executive engineer PH Mathad said: “The project was included in the annual plan of the ministry and Rs 300 crore has been kept aside for its construction.” “At Chennamma Circle, an elevated rotary junction will be constructed, one arm would be built towards railway station and the other towards Hosur Circle. Both the arms will have four lanes for the movement of the vehicles and one more arm would be built from Hosur to Mofussil depot of the NWKRTC on Gokul Road,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hubballi/kc-circle-flyover-proposal-may-become-reality-soon/articleshow/75110824.cms||Kishan Singh Bhorde
April 13, 2020||Kolkata||Varsities may push back academic sessions, exams||Kolkata: Universities across the state are staring at an uncertain future. With classes remaining suspended till June 10, all state-run universities are set to postpone their semester examinations scheduled to be held in May or June. Even the academic calendar is set to be hit with admissions to undergraduate programmes likely to be delayed. The academic session, which begins at the end of July and August, is also likely be pushed back to September this year. “We were planning to hold the semester examination in June. Now, it will be pushed back further to end-July since after reopening, we need to hold classes for at least a month before the semester exams,” said a vice-chancellor. Most of the VCs are convinced that the academic session 2020-2021 will be pushed back to September or even later. “Unless the state higher secondary council, publishes its results, universities won’t start issuing application forms till they finish their examinations. The next step is hard to predict,” said another VC. Several university authorities are looking at the University Grants Commission to issue a uniform circular addressing the issue of semester examinations. “There is provision for zero semester since the final or sixth-semester students will be massively hit due to the delay,” explained a VC.  In order to hold a semester examination without further classes, the syllabus prescribed in the choice-based credit system (CBCS), which is followed by universities across the country, will have to be curtailed. “It may so happen that while some universities may agree to reduce the syllabus in order to hold the semester exam on time and publish results, many others may not do so. In such a situation, UGC will have to publish a guideline. Otherwise, graduates from multiple universities will have different levels of knowledge. While applying to the post-graduate programmes later, equivalence is necessary,” a VC cautioned. Moreover, if students have to take the admission tests for PG courses in other universities, they may face problems pertaining to incomplete syllabus, which their home varsity may have approved in the UG course,” he added. Sources said the state higher education department is likely to issue a circular in some time with directives to the state-run universities addressing the matter.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/varsities-may-push-back-academic-sessions-exams/articleshow/75113664.cms||Somdatta Basu
April 13, 2020||Thiruvananthapuram||State hard-pressed to meet RNA extraction kit demand||Thiruvananthapuram: As the state continues to ramp up testing for the novel coronavirus, authorities are going the extra mile to ensure supply of kits for RNA extraction, which is crucial to the process. Extraction of ribonucleic acid (RNA) -- genetic material – of the virus is key to the reverse transcription polymerase chain reaction (RT-PCR) for viral diagnostic testing. RNA isolated from a patient’s sample is copied into DNA and then amplified for detection of the virus. After nasal and throat samples are collected using swabs, RNA extraction is the first step performed in the lab; and being a delicate process it is done using kits with high specifications. The department of industries & commerce, which is facilitating supply of test kits for the department of health, has already communicated the difficulty in procuring kits that are compatible with the specifications of PCR machines in the state. The state is reaching out to South Korea, Germany, Dubai and even the United States to tap the available stock of extraction kits. ICMR provided 20,000 kits. Orders have also been given out to suppliers in the country, including a company in Pune, however with cases in Maharashtra on the rise, only 10% of actual order has been made available so far. “We are contacting embassies abroad, for instance our embassy in Seoul, South Korea for test kits. PCR tests have become rampant. Although there is no confirmation we understand that most of the Chinese consignments are getting diverted to US. We have been awaiting a major consignment of 30,000-50,000 kits from Germany for two weeks. One of our suppliers in China is waiting for export clearance. A company in South Korea which supplies the agents was helpful in pushing the order. We will get the required supplies soon,’’ said K Ellangovan, principal secretary, industries & commerce department. With the Central University in Kasaragod coming online, the state now has the capacity to test 1,790 samples daily. Seven new PCR machines were procured recently while 18 PCR machines were shifted by KMSCL with the help of higher education department to 10 new labs in the state. “Orders have also been placed for 1.2 lakh dracon swabs. Nearly 2 lakh test kits are expected to be procured from South Korea. Until last week, 3,382 extraction kits were available with the health department and only 1,000 kits were expected to arrive, although orders for 2 lakh kits were placed. It has also been pointed out that the US has been purchasing kits at 3-4 times the price, resulting in their shortage,” he said. “We are now receiving supplies in small quantities and kits are being procured by road. Even if we get 100 kits, 20 of them will have to be used for standardisation procedures,” department officials said. ICMR has approved 12 labs -- 10 government labs and two private ones -- for Covid-19 diagnostic testing in the state. Testing is also set to begin at the four government medical colleges in Ernakulam, Kottayam, Manjeri and Kannur. Maharashtra and Rajasthan have been leading in terms of number of tests conducted so far in the country. With 32 labs Maharashtra tested 31,841 samples while Rajasthan tested 24,857 samples using eight labs as on Saturday. Kerala, which is third on the list, sent 14,163 samples to labs till Saturday. The state has slowly ramped up its testing process since March 18. The number of samples being sent has been consistently above 200 since the middle of March and by Saturday, 824 samples were collected and sent for testing; the highest number so far.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/thiruvananthapuram/state-hard-pressed-to-meet-rna-extraction-kit-demand/articleshow/75111629.cms||Aswin J Kumar
April 13, 2020||Jaipur||Civil defence staff rescue man who fell into well||Jaipur: While distributing ration packets, a team of civil defence personnel on Sunday rescued a 27-year-old man who fell into a dry well at Kiro ki Dhani in Jamwa Ramgarh. He was admitted to Sawai Man Singh (SMS) Hospital.“A team of eight civil defence personnel pulled Mukesh Kumar out of the 120-feet deep dry well. He was alive and rushed to SMS Hospital,” said Jagdish Prasad Rawat, deputy controller, civil defence. “According to the villagers, Kumar accidentally slipped into the well while cutting trees. The moment we got a call from the police control room in the morning, a team of civil defence personnel rushed to the spot and rescued him,” he added.He further said, “Kumar has suffered fractures in his leg and other body parts. But his condition is stable.” TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/civil-defence-staff-rescue-man-who-fell-into-well/articleshow/75113433.cms||---
April 13, 2020||Dehradun||‘No person sleeping hungry in Dehradun’||DEHRADUN: The Dehradun district administration has said that it has provided cooked meals to nearly 3.12 lakh people since the lockdown was announced, and will continue to ensure that no person is sleeping hungry in the district. Reacting to a TOI article published on April 11 in which some migrant labourers in Gabbar Singh Colony and Chetna Basti in the city had claimed that they were getting by with only 200 gms of tehri (rice cooked with vegetables) for lunch and just water for dinner, district officials denied that such a thing was possible, saying that their teams had been reaching out to all needy people during the crisis and ensuring that their food needs are well taken care of. On Sunday alone, district administration officials said, they had distributed cooked food to over 6370 people across the district with the help of social organisations. Apart from cooked meals, officials said, they have been providing over 3300 dry ration kits every day to people living in slums, senior citizens living alone and students from other districts and states stuck in Dehradun during the lockdown. The dry ration kit includes on an average 5 kilogram of flour, 3 kg rice, 1 kg pulses, 1 kg salt, 1 kg cooking oil and 1 kg sugar along with spices, they added. Talking to TOI, Dehradun district magistrate Ashish Srivastava said, “The distribution of food supplies including dry ration and cooked meals is being done with micro-planning and this model has been widely appreciated by other districts of the state as well. To ensure transparency, police personnel have been roped in for facilitating distribution of supplies in different areas. Social organisations who have helped us greatly in arranging food for a large number of people are giving away ration kits in the presence of the district administration officials and police personnel”. District officials further said that the Aadhaar data base of the beneficiaries who have received ration or cooked meals is also being maintained for follow-up exercise and refill from time to time. Meanwhile, residents of slum colonies told TOI on Sunday said that their ration needs are being taken care of. Kishan Singh, a resident of Gabbar Singh Basti, said, “We have received the ration packet which will help our family take care of our food worries for the next one week.” Another resident from the same locality, Sunita, said, "The ration packets were delivered to us today and I am happy that I would be able to feed my children for the next 7-8 days. Officials told us to call them in case of any further need". In addition to the dry ration and cooked meals,the district administration also provided around 850 litres of milk cumulatively to localities like Bhagat Singh colony, Kargi Grant and Lakhibagh. Speaking about ensuring consistent supply of essentials, the district magistrate said, “We are proceeding with a teamwork mindset in which district administration, police, social organisations and RWAs are all involved. We will continue in a similar manner in order to ensure that no needy person suffers.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/no-person-sleeping-hungry-in-doon/articleshow/75112438.cms||---
April 13, 2020||Rajkot||Gujarat man sends drone to fetch paan for his friend||RAJKOT: Desperation to satiate addictions during lockdown is igniting innovations in minds of tobacco addicts. In Morbi, two mavas (lime-laced betelnut mixed with tobacco), were delivered by a tobacco trader to his friend using the latter’s drone. They did not stop at that. The duo also made a Tiktok video of the delivery-through-air and made it viral on the social media. The mavas were delivered on the terrace of Neelkanth Society to 26-year-old Ravi Bhadania, who owns the drone. The duo's societies are just 100 metres apart. The mavas were prepared by his friend Hiren Gardharia, 29, a trader dealing in tobacco items. They were arrested for the violation of the government's ban on sale of tobacco products during the lockdown order. The drone was flown from one terrace to the other terrace of Neelkanth Society covering a distance of 100 metre. After the video went viral on Saturday late night, Morbi superintendent of police Karanraj Vaghela ordered a probe. “We found that the video was shot in Neelkanth Society. During investigation, we ascertained the involvement of Gardharia and Bhadania in the crime following which we nabbed them,” said P B Gadhvi, sub-inspector with Morbi B division police station. Watch 2 detained for delivering pan masala via drone in Gujarat's Morbi||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/driven-by-desperation-drone-delivering-mavas-in-morbi/articleshow/75113081.cms||---
April 13, 2020||Thiruvananthapuram||‘Extend lockdown till May’||Thiruvananthapuram: IMA-Kerala vice-president Dr N Sulphi said the lockdown should continue till May to check the spread of Covid-19. He was speaking at the Facebook live organized by The Times of India here. The three-day series, which was attended by experts in medical sector, concluded on Sunday. Dr Sulphi said maintaining social distancing, frequent hand washing and wearing of masks should continue for months even after the lockdown. “The medical fraternity expects that the threat of Covid-19 would continue for 2-3 years, but for the general public, it is a matter of 2-3 months. Just how we contained spread of H1N1, Covid-19 would emerge as a normal viral disease in the future. We will be able to develop an effective vaccine for it within two years,” he said. Regarding developing herd immunity, Dr Sulphi said though herd immunity is good, the state could not afford to wait till 60% of the population develops the immunity. “Countries such as Italy and the UK which waited for it had to witness a huge number of fatalities,” he said. Considering the cases of recovered persons getting infected again, Dr Sulphi said there is a possibility of a second peak. “Definitely, it is not a time to relax. However, people don’t have to be anxious about indefinite lockdown restrictions. Even the social distancing need not be practised after six months. If everything goes well, we will have a grand Onam celebration this year,” he said. The doctor said upcoming monsoon season will be a challenge as the season is more conducive for virus spread. “Now we are able to limit number of people visiting hospital, except for emergency cases. But there will be pre-monsoon rains by mid-May, which will be followed by a viral outbreak. If there is rise in such cases, hospitals and health workers will not be able to manage,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/thiruvananthapuram/extend-lockdown-till-may/articleshow/75111649.cms||---
April 13, 2020||Jaipur||Stay of migrants in shelter homes may be extended||Jaipur: The stay of migrant workers in shelter homes, which was earlier scheduled up to April 14, may get extended with the likely extension of the lockdown in the state. The district administration is awaiting revised directions from the state government in this regard, said an official.There are currently around 1,721 migrant workers housed in 21 operational shelter homes in the district. Meanwhile, 54 buildings have been identified for shelter homes in the district. However, the administration will not be using the buildings in the city area which were earlier identified for quarantine facilities.“Most of the buildings which have been identified are in the outer periphery of the city. Some buildings which were identified in the city area will not be used anymore,” said Jaipur collector Joga Ram.Political leaders of both BJP and ruling Congress party on Saturday had met Jaipur city nodal officer in-charge of preventing spread of coronavirus, Ajitabh Sharma, and Jaipur collector Joga Ram and expressed their concern over identifying quarantine centres in the city area. They had urged administration to shift quarantine facilities outside the city.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/stay-of-migrants-in-shelter-homes-may-be-extended/articleshow/75113434.cms||---
April 13, 2020||Mysuru||Good news from Mysuru: 6 pharma employees among 7 discharged||MYSURU: Mysuru heaved a sigh of relief on Sunday as seven Covid-19 patients walked out of hospital, treated for the infection successfully and discharged. Six of the patients are employees of pharmaceutical firm Jubilant Life Sciences in Nanjangud, counted among the cluster infections in the country. This the first time in Karnataka that seven people have been discharged in a single day, said authorities, coming after positive cases being reported every day and leading to sealing in Nanjangud. On Sunday, one case of Covid-19 infection was reported — also from the pharma company — taking the total number of patients so far to 48. The latest patient is a 32-year-old employee and a resident of JP Nagar in Mysuru. Minutes after his tests results were announced, authorities moved in and barricaded the area and took up disinfection and sanitation measures. In all, seven employees of pharma company in the temple town have recovered and been discharged. The first patient from the firm — P52 who tested positive on March 26 — was discharged on April 10 and has since been moved to a quarantine facility on his request to spend 14 days in isolation, away from home. He is a resident of Sardar Vallabhbhai Patel Nagar, off Outer Ring Road. “Mysuru has registered 48 cases so far. Of them, nine have been discharged after treatment. Now we have 39 under treatment,” said DHO Dr R Venkatesh. The first Mysuru patient, a 35-year-old with travel history, was also the first to be discharged, on April 7. Deputy commissioner Abhiram G Sankar thanked the hospital’s doctors, nurses and other staff and teams on the ground — including police, health personnel, local body functionaries, quarantine monitoring and surveillance teams for their support and services. “Feedback from the patients has been collected and as per some of their requests, a hot water geyser facility has been provided in the hospital,” he said. “The condition of all other Covid-19 patients in the hospital is stable and they are recovering.” With cases related to the pharma plant continuing to surface each day, district authorities are closely monitoring employees, families and contacts in home isolation. They are also regularly tracking the health details of 300-odd primary contacts of the patients. Cracking the whip against an employee who was allegedly roaming the streets, Nanjangud Rural police registered a case on charges of violating the DC’s orders on home quarantine. “The DC and health authorities have ordered home quarantine for 14 days for all 1,500 employees of the company after stamping their hands with a seal. The DC had extended the quarantine to another 14 days, but one of the employees was found violating the order. A case has been filed against him,” SP CB Rishyanth said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mysuru/good-news-from-mysuru-6-pharma-employees-among-7-discharged/articleshow/75111636.cms||HM Aravind
April 13, 2020||Dehradun||Bus union demands relief package for para-transit vehicle drivers||DEHRADUN: In a letter to CM Rawat, members of Dehradun Mahanagar City Bus Seva Mahasangh have requested for a relief package (or some monetary help) for the drivers of para-transit vehicles, including buses, tempo, taxi, e-rickshaws, and others. The letter states that 20,000 para-transit vehicle drivers have gone out of work due to the coronavirus lockdown. The letter cites the example of Delhi government which has announced Rs 5,000 compensation for para-transit vehicle drivers. Vijay Vardhan Dandriyal, president of Dehradun Mahanagar City Bus Seva Mahasangh, told TOI that the state government has announced beneficiary schemes and insurance packages for people in need and must announce some package for this section of unorganised workers as well. “There are over 20,000 e-rickshaw owners, taxi, maxi cab, and tempo drivers in Dehradun. They went jobless after the nationwide lockdown. And with the government considering to extend the lockdown, these drivers will hardly have enough money to feed themselves and their kin,” said Dandriyal. The organisation also claims that the state government is using many private vehicles in fight against coronavirus and hence, the drivers of these vehicles must be given insurance cover like other frontline workers working in times of Covid-19 outbreak. Atul Agarwal, an e-rickshaw owner from Balliwala, told TOI that he used to earn Rs 500-to-Rs 600 every day but now he is financially distressed as he hasn’t got any work for almost 23 days now. Notably, the state government has already announced a compensation of Rs 1,000 for all daily wage workers who have gone out of work due to the lockdown. Uttarakhand has around 3 lakh daily wagers registered with the government who will get the money directly in their bank accounts.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/bus-union-demands-relief-package-for-para-transit-vehicle-drivers/articleshow/75112446.cms||Ishita Mishra
April 13, 2020||Vadodara||Nagarwada shopkeeper succumbs||Vadodara: City recorded its third Covid-19 death on Sunday evening when a 27-year-old man died at GMERS Medical College and Hospital at Gotri, hours after he tested positive. Bhargav Patni, a resident of Navrang Road in Nagarwada area, died at around 7.30 pm. Sources said that he had other co-morbid conditions as he was also suffering from dengue. He is the relative of two others from the area who have tested positive. Sources said that the family runs a fair price shop in Nagarwada, which has been declared as red zone since April 5. Earlier, 52-year-old Shailen Desai of Nizampura area had died on April 2. Later, 62-year-old Rekha Sheth, a resident of Tandalja Road died on April 6. The duo was admitted at SSG Hospital and had travelled to Sri Lanka. Meanwhile, the number of positive cases in the city has crossed the 100 mark within a month. With six more testing positive in 24 hours ending Sunday evening, the tally touched 101. Like in the past, Sunday too witnessed maximum number of cases surfacing from Nagarwada-Saiyedpura area. Vadodara collector Shalini Agrawal said of the six samples that tested positive on Sunday, four were from Nagarwada-Saiyedpura, while two each were from Bahar Colony and Ajwa Road. The two cases from Bahar Colony are relatives of a 66-year-old male from the same colony who had tested positive on April 9. While one 50-year-old female is the man’s niece, another 24-year-old granddaughter tested positive. The total number of cases from Nagarwada-Saiyedpura stretch alone has touched 88. All the cases have emerged after mass sampling of residents in this area. Of the 101 cases, 92 are under treatment. By Sunday afternoon, of the 978 samples which were tested, 828 had come negative. A majority of the Covid-19 positive patients are currently under treatment at GMERS Medical College and Hospital at Gotri, while a couple of them are being treated at private multi-specialty hospitals in the city. GMERS Medical College and Hospital at Gotri has been declared as Covid-19 hospital for Central Gujarat. Meanwhile, district health officials informed that screening and home quarantine period of all the 757 passengers whose details were provided by the state government to the district administration has got over.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/nagarwada-shopkeeper-succumbs/articleshow/75111396.cms||---
April 13, 2020||Thiruvananthapuram||Family of positive persons more cautious and careful||Thiruvananthapuram: Even while dealing with instances where compromise in home quarantine led to transmission of disease to primary contacts in some imported cases, the district and health authorities in the district have also been surprised by sense of awareness and mutual care shown by patients and family members in some cases. The health authorities said that some family members who were identified as primary contacts of confirmed cases are volunteering to be housed in Covid care homes to ensure safety of other family members and even neighbours. A person who had arrived from Dubai on March 22 was under home isolation for eight days. He was tested for Covid-19 following severe cough and his samples were tested positive on April 1. He was recently discharged and he is under observation at Nedumangadu district hospital. His mother was later tested positive. According to authorities, the person had volunteered to be taken to hospital instead of his home for the mandatory days of observation even after his samples were tested negative. His family members also expressed willingness to be housed at Covid care home. Their sole concern was their pet Persian cat and how it can be fed. A section of railway employees who hailed from other districts had also opted to stay in Covid care homes in the district for the mandated quarantine period to avoid risking their family members and other local residents to any kind of infection. The district has had three cases so far in which close family members got infected from imported cases. Earlier two kids of a person from Malayinkeezhu who was under treatment for Covid-19 had also tested positive on March 31. The person arrived from Dubai and was advised to go on home quarantine. He stayed at home for five days and the authorities said that the norms were compromised which may have exposed his family members. The person who came from Britain to the city and was tested positive had compromised on home quarantine which made district collector K Gopalakrishnan to insist on the need to stick with the norms. The district and health team have been insisting on room isolation instead of home quarantine.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/thiruvananthapuram/family-of-positive-persons-more-cautious-and-careful/articleshow/75111644.cms||Aswin J Kumar
April 13, 2020||Dehradun||Kin of pregnant woman posts plea on FB, police responds||PITHORAGARH: Superintendent of Police (SP) Pithoragarh Preeti Priyadarshani extended help to a 22-year-old pregnant woman after her brother posted a letter seeking medical assistance on the Facebook page of Pithoragarh Police. The woman, Jyoti Upreti, a resident of Munsyari, has now been admitted at a hospital in Pithoragarh. Upreti was experiencing stomach ache for the past two weeks. Due to the lockdown, her family members could not take her to a hospital. Her brother then posted a plea on Facebook, saying a Munsyari doctor had suggested an ultrasound but Munsyari block didn’t have the facility to get it done. “When Kamlesh Joshi reached out to us, saying his sister needed urgent medical check-up, our surveillance team tracked down his mobile number and granted him a vehicle pass so he could travel to Pithoragarh. The woman has been admitted at a government hospital and has undergone the ultrasound she needed,” said Priyadarshani.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/kin-of-pregnant-woman-posts-plea-on-fb-police-responds/articleshow/75112456.cms||Prem Punetha
April 13, 2020||Ahmedabad||Many booked even before enforcement||AHMEDABAD: From Sunday itself police have begun booking people for flouting the mandate to wear masks that will come into force in city on Monday. On Sunday, at least half a dozen complaints were filed by city police against people for not wearing masks on road. Ahmedabad Municipal Corporation had announced on Sunday that from Monday onwards it will be compulsory for people stepping out of their homes in the city to wear masks. A city police official said that five such persons were booked by Gujarat University police. Apart from this, other complaints were filed at Gujarat University and Sola high court police stations against persons found on road without masks. An official of Gujarat university police said that persons, who were caught not wearing masks, gave different excuses ranging from migraine to skin allergy. “Whenever we catch such persons, they say they have masks but have forgotten at home or some of them begin wearing it in haste when they see any cops on road like some people used to do it with helmets,” said an official. The official added, “Most people complain they get pain in ears and temples from wearing masks. Many also complain of skin allergy. People should understand that this is for their safety only.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/many-booked-even-before-enforcement/articleshow/75113148.cms||---
April 13, 2020||Kanpur||Covid-19 suspect cases decline||Kanpur: A sharp decline in Covid-19 suspected cases was witnessed on Saturday as only four outsiders and foreign travellers have been quarantined by the health department. In another development, 32 persons who were quarantined tested negative and sent back to their homes with instructions to follow the protocol. According to health bulletin issued by the health department, as many as 19 Covid-19 suspects are being treated in a hospital. Police not only strictly maintained lockdown but paid special attention in the hotspot areas. No one was allowed to move in these areas the administration maintained door-to-door supply to the people living in the hotspot areas. Solidaridad, a Dutch firm which is working in India for the last three years in the field of cleaning Ganga on Saturday presented around 10,000 masks and 2000 bottles of sanitizer of 200 ml each to district magistrate Brahmadeo Ram Tiwari for the medical teams and frontline workers engaged in treating Covid-19 patients. The firm also presented 2000 masks and 500 bottles of sanitizer to the medical college and around 1000 masks to the press club for mediapersons. Senior advisor of the Dutch firm Kabir Hasan Zaidi to the district magistrate that that on behalf of the firm around 600 hampers of ration would be distributed among the needy persons soon. Meanwhile, at a blood donation camp organized by Pathrahi Devi Sewa Samiti at Basant Vihar in Naubasta, around 100 persons donated blood. Mayor Pramila Pandey, DM Brahmadeo Ram Tiwari and SSP/DIG Anant Deo inaugurated the blood donation camp. Secretary, Kanpur Nagar Mandi Satyapal Gangwar distributed free of cost 10 quintal oranges, 10 quintal banana and 8 quintal cucumber among the medical teams, policemen, doctors, nurses and Covid-19 suspects.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kanpur/covid-19-suspect-cases-decline/articleshow/75102486.cms||---
April 13, 2020||Rajkot||Aravalli cop donates one month salary||Palanpur: A police constable working as driver in MT Branch of Modasa police in Aravalli district has donated his one month salary to the government relief fund for fight against coronavirus.Speaking to TOI Jitendrasinh Mohabatsinh said that he heard about suffering of the poor because of the lockdown in force due to spread of the deadly virus. “Many good Samaritans have donated for the noble cause. So I too, decided to donate my salary for month of April for the month to the state relief fund. I am sure this will be used for treatment of people infected by the virus and the poor.”“Jitendrasinh has been serving as driver in MT Branch since many years. He has been wanting to donate for the helpless countrymen at time of such catastrophe,” said police sub-inspector K D Panchal of Modasa police.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/aravalli-cop-donates-one-month-salary/articleshow/75102137.cms||---
April 13, 2020||Jaipur||RAS officials help in curfew-hit areas||With 9 RAS officers (nodal officers) and 9 tehsildars appointed in all the curfew-hit police stations in Walled city area for coordination and monitoring of lockdown, the district administration is ensuring that they remain the link between residents of Ramganj and nearby areas, and police, essential services, medical and civil supplies. TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/ras-officials-help-in-curfew-hit-areas/articleshow/75113435.cms||---
April 13, 2020||Kolkata||No non-covid patient left at M R Bangur||KOLKATA: With 140-odd patients being treated by 41 doctors and an additional seven specialists from different city hospitals on special deputation, MR Bangur Hospital in Tollygunge started functioning as a full-fledged Covid-19 treatment facility from Sunday. “All of our other patients have been shifted to different hospitals and from now we shall only treat patients with novel coronavirus symptoms. Twelve doctors are on duty in shifts. A team of seven specialists from SSKM Hospital, Medical College and Hospital and Nil Ratan Sarkar Hospital has joined us to look after patients with co-morbidities,” said MR Bangur Hospital superintendent Sisir Naskar. The Bengal government on April 3 had designated MR Bangur Hospital as the city’s first Covid-19 facility after the state’s initial plan to turn Medical College and Hospital (MCH) into the same was shelved. When the announcement was made, MR Bangur Hospital had 300-odd patients in the old building and a handful of Covid-19 suspects in an isolation ward. Over the past week, around 50 patients were discharged from the old building while 250 others, including the extremely critical 32 patients in the burn ward, were shifted to SSKM and Sambhunath Pandit Hospital. On Friday evening, a sick newborn and his mother were shifted to SSKM from the Sick Neonatal Care Unit, rendering the entire hospital premises free of all general patients. “We had been disinfecting each department and block as they were vacated. After the entire building was free of patients, fumigation and disinfection was carried out. We are now ready with 1,100 beds to accommodate only Covid-19 patients,” Naskar said. “We have an adequate number of doctors at present and we are receiving all support, including doctors, paramedics, and personal protective equipments, from the state health department. We have been assured that even in the future we shall get more doctors, depending on the increase in patient count,” said a senior official of the hospital.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/no-non-covid-patient-left-at-m-r-bangur/articleshow/75113665.cms||Tamaghna Banerjee
April 13, 2020||Jaipur||Stick to lockdown or face the ‘music’: Jaipur cops||JAIPUR: Think twice before violating the coronavirus lockdown in Rajasthan’s capital — Jaipur Police will inflict ‘Masakali 2.0’ on you. Police here have warned on social media that they will confine violators to a room and then play the song, a recent remix of the original ‘Masakali’ from ‘Delhi-6’, over and over again for those found “roaming unnecessarily” during the lockdown to fight coronavirus. The remake has not gone down well with many, including A R Rahman, the composer of the original for the Abhishek Bachchan-Sonam Kapoor-starrer, a decade back. It was sung then by Mohit Chauhan. Original lyricist Prasoon Joshi has also gone on social media, making clear that he is not happy with the Masakali 2.0 music video starring Sidharth Malhotra and Tara Sutaria. Jaipur Police are not necessarily taking sides in the row over the remake. It’s just that the lyrics are apt. “Mat Udiyo, Tu Dariyo… Na Kar Manmani, Manmani… Ghar Par Hi Rahiyo, Na Kar Nadani,” the lyrics say. Don’t be stubborn, don’t be stupid, stay at home, the lines say. On Twitter, Jaipur Police warned, “If you are unnecessarily roaming outside, we will put you in a room and play Masakali 2.0 on loop.” The post also carried a cartoon making the same point. “That’s a savage. Killing lot of birds with shot. Great sense of dark humour…. Can’t stop laughing,” Vivek Shah reacted on Twitter. Shashi M Nair tweeted, “Awesome thinking. Masakali 2 music deadliest than coronavirus. It’s better to be at home rather than listening to the song.” Deputy commissioner of police Kavendra Singh Sagar, who handles social media, said they decided to use humour to get the message across to people. By Sunday afternoon, Jaipur alone had reported over 300 cases of coronavirus. Police have barricaded 262 locations in the city to prevent movement of unauthorized people. They have seized over 8,100 vehicles so far and arrested 131 people for flouting prohibitory orders. Drone cameras are in use and their live footage monitored to check if the lockdown is being followed, officials said. PTI||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/stick-to-lockdown-or-face-the-music-city-cops/articleshow/75113436.cms||---
April 13, 2020||Rajkot||Sakkarbaug Zoo gives privacy to big cats, 4 more cubs born||RAJKOT: In what comes as a straight lift from some vintage royal movies, the pride of Gir, Asiatic lion couples, too were given the rare luxury of having their own ‘ekant grih’ (read enclosure) inside the Sakkarbaug zoo. After the royal couple gave birth to four healthy cubs on Saturday, thus ended another round of successful mating experiment conducted by the Junagadh zoo authorities. Read the entire story on TOI+  What zoos are doing in times of Covid-19||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/sakkarbaug-zoo-gives-privacy-to-big-cats-4-more-cubs-born/articleshow/75113097.cms||Nimesh Khakhariya
April 13, 2020||Jaipur||Rajasthan: Fear of death over, several return home hale & hearty||JAIPUR: They were shocked, scared and apprehensive when they tested positive for Covid-19. While many were afflicted with the fear of death, others were in disbelief. However, these 121 patients, who have now tested negative for Covid-19, are relieved and happy to have recovered. Out of these, 63 persons from various parts of the state, have already reached their homes and are expressing gratitude towards the state government, especially the medical and health department. TOI on Sunday spoke to various patients who are now corona-negative and to those who have reached their homes after being discharged. The man who had returned from Oman and is allegedly responsible for spreading the infection in Ramganj locality, said he roamed around the city since he had no symptoms and that he should have avoided meeting people. “My family — my four brothers, their wives and their sons and daughters — was kept at the hospital. All of us are negative. When I came back, I never had any symptoms and was fit,” he said while talking to TOI. His reports are negative now and he is expecting to get discharged from the hospital soon. He admitted that he has made a mistake though unknowingly. “Since I had no symptoms I roamed around and met people. After being in hospital, one thing I have realized is that despite not having symptoms, I should have stayed at home. Even if I was fit, I could have spread the infection. I have come to realize this,” he said. Those who survived and got discharged from the hospitals expressed their gratitude towards the government and medical teams. “Doctors, nurses and other staff were very courteous and qualified. They took care of everything, from our dosage of medicines to our breakfast, tea, lunch and dinner,” said a 54-year-old man from Jaipur who got discharged on Sunday. “I had no symptoms like cough, cold, sneezing or fever. The moment I was told that I tested positive for Covid-19, I was shattered. I am thankful to the nurses and doctors who kept boosting my confidence and did all what was needed for me. But I have learnt my lesson that we have to avoid meeting each other socially, at least for next few months,” said a 45-year-old woman from Walled City, who was discharged from the hospital on Saturday. Since 63 out of the 121 patients have been discharged, the rest are hoping to get back to their homes soon, but are being cautious. “Even after going home, we will avoid meeting people, especially relatives,” said a 31-year-old woman from Jaipur.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/fear-of-death-over-several-return-home-hale-hearty/articleshow/75113439.cms||Ashish Mehta
April 13, 2020||Kozhikode||Well, locked down, not in spirits (or) (or)High ‘five’, a lockdown well-spent||Kannur: “All’s well that ends well,” Shaji said. In the last two weeks of the lockdown, which forced most people to stay indoors, Shaji Narikkodan and his family from Pottanpara near Pinarayi in the district were busy digging out a plan — to build a well in the compound of their house. An exercise that started as a mere activity to spend some quality time, turned out to be the most resourceful work they had ever done. With a diametre of 3.2m and depth of 12.5m, the well was dug by a family of five without spending a single penny. “When the lockdown was announced, it was a collective suggestion that we should dig a well in the compound, as we were planning for some time,” said Shaji, 45, who is an autorickshaw driver with some professional experience in digging wells as well. But there was no manpower except the family members and no one else had any idea how to dig a well. When he said this, his 39-year-old wife Beena said she was ready to take-up the challenge. Their children — daughter Binsha (20), who is a BSc final year student and son Abhijay (17), a plus one student — also came forward. Shaji’s younger brother Shaneesh, who runs a cellphone shop on Kozhikode, too joined. It was a collective work that saved almost Rs 1 lakh, considering the present market rate of digging a well. “Though we were a little skeptical in the beginning, I was amazed to see the way my sister-in-law, who has no prior experience in any kind of manual labour, assisting in the work like a veteran. Her two children too worked hard, promptly maintaining the social distancing,” he said. The work that begun on March 26 morning was almost complete by April 9. After completing a depth of 16 rings, which is over 12.45 metre, now Shaji has some laterite work left and it could be done only after the lockdown ends. Though Beena was a bit confused in the beginning, it turned out to be an interesting challenge for her. “It was a new experience. I was doing something like this for the first time and it gave me absolute satisfaction. Now, there is sufficient water in it, which is the result of our hard work,” said Beena. Our eyes were filled with tears of joy as we saw water gushing out from the sides of the well, she said adding that it was the fruit of all the sweat we had shed. The family did not face any water scarcity as they had a well in their ancestral house. But, the water-level had started receding and hence, they decided to have one of their own and now we have one, she proudly said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kozhikode/well-locked-down-not-in-spirits-or-orhigh-five-a-lockdown-well-spent/articleshow/75111674.cms||P Sudhakaran
April 13, 2020||Trichy||200kg seafood confiscated from Puthur fish market||TRICHY: Revenue department officials on Sunday seized 200 kg of seafood that was being sold illegally at the Puthur fish market. The district administration had ordered the meat and fish stalls to be shut on Sundays as a large number of people had flocked at these stalls on Sundays in the last few weeks, flouting social distancing norms. Police said that they received a tip-off from locals about clandestine sales of seafood at Puthur fish market. Though all the shops in the fish market were closed, a few traders had set up four makeshift stalls and were selling fish since the early hours of Sunday, defying the ban imposed. “Soon after we received the complaint, we went to the Puthur fish market. The traders fled the scene on seeing us, but we confiscated the seafood,” a senior official from the revenue department said. The confiscated seafood was sent to the Ariyamangalam dump yard for destroying. Trichy city police are inquiring into the incident.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/200kg-seafood-confiscated-from-puthur-fish-market/articleshow/75113437.cms||---
April 13, 2020||Dehradun||Dehradun police plans to reduce shift hours of cops during lockdown||DEHRADUN: City police are planning to rejig the duty roaster of police personnel deployed on field during the lockdown. According to the proposed system, cops, mainly stationed on police pickets, will be working on any of the four shifts— five hours, four hours, six hours, and nine hours. “Considering the rise in mercury levels, we are planning to come up with a new duty shift roster, which will come into force if the lockdown is extended. The new duty roster will be applicable for cops stationed at pickets,” said Arun Mohan Joshi, SSP/DIG, Dehradun. The official added that the first (morning) shift would be of five hours, followed by a four-hour shift during the hours when temperatures soars to the maximum, and the remaining two shifts will be of six-hour and nine-hours respectively. Notably, majority of police personnel have become overburdened since the imposition of lockdown.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/doon-police-plans-to-reduce-shift-hours-of-cops-during-lockdown/articleshow/75112479.cms||Gaurav Talwar
April 13, 2020||Trichy||Shut markets help curb Sunday crowd in Trichy||TRICHY: The district administration’s decision to close all temporary vegetable and meat markets in the city on weekends has augured well for the city police to contain public movement on roads. Except for grocery stores, milk shops and pharmacies, all private commercial establishment in the city remained closed on Sunday. Police said that the decision had a positive impact on public movement compared to previous weekends. “Closure of vegetable markets on weekends and the closure of meat stalls on Sundays have made our tasks easier. Perhaps, the district administration should consider closing vegetable markets every Saturday and Sunday,” a police officer said. Even the mobile vegetable vendors who sell vegetables at doorsteps had refrained from venturing out on Sunday. Authorities said that a section of people was visiting vegetable markets daily instead of purchasing in bulk. Arterial roads including Bharathidasan road, Bharathiyar road, Madurai road and Rockins road near Central bus stand were completely deserted even between 6am and 1am on Sunday, the permitted time for people to buy essential commodities. Police sources have suggested decreasing the working hours of vegetable markets and grocery shops to bring down public movement further. The district administration is yet to take a decision to close the temporary vegetable markets every weekend. Meanwhile, in Ariyalur district, even the grocery stores were closed on Sunday as only pharmacies were permitted to function. Ariyalur SP V R Srinivasan inspected the town using a drone camera.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/shut-markets-help-curb-sunday-crowd/articleshow/75113442.cms||Deepak Karthik
April 13, 2020||Visakhapatnam||Over two lakh volunteers brave duties without PPE||Visakhapatnam: As the number of cases rises in the state, one lakh village and ward secretaries and around 2.5 lakh village and ward volunteers working under them are living in constant fear of contracting Covid-19. Village and ward secretaries and volunteers on door-to-door assignments during the lockdown have not been provided with any personal protective equipment (PPE) or a health insurance policy by the state government. “Post-lockdown these secretaries and the volunteers working under them are doing most of the door-to-door assignments related to Covid-19 measures. But the government has not provided basic safety equipment to most of them. Nor do they have any mediclaim or health insurance,” said Samyam Hemanth Kumar, state president of the Andhra Pradesh Nirudyoga Joint Action Committee. For every 4,000 residents in the state, there is one village or ward secretary. Within city limits, each ward secretary oversees 21 volunteers. A secretary draws a salary of Rs 15,000 per month, while a volunteer receives an ad hoc payment that ranges anywhere between Rs 5,000 to Rs 8,000. Volunteers carry out door-to-door campaigns, collecting details such as number of members in a family and monthly household income which helps the government prepare a list of beneficiaries for different schemes. Volunteers also accept government taxes, prepare lists of defaulters and send them intimation notices. Soon after Covid-19 positive cases were reported in the state, the government roped in the services of volunteers to conduct a door-to-door survey covering close to 1.5 crore households. “But since lockdown our job has increased manifold. We are doing all door-to-door works related to Covid-19. We are collecting health report of families, chalking out lists of foreign returnees, pasting ‘home quarantined’ stickers and also supplying people with awareness messages and essential commodities. We are really afraid that we don’t get affected with the virus,” said a volunteer working in one of the red zones in Visakhapatnam. Out of the 676 mandals in the state, the government has identified 37 mandals as red zones, 44 as orange zones and 595 as green zone areas. “Something has to be done with immediate effect. Only around 10 days back a 23-year-old volunteer from Prakasam district died of cardiac arrest while on duty,” said Hemanth Kumar.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/visakhapatnam/over-two-lakh-volunteers-brave-duties-without-ppe/articleshow/75112502.cms||Arpit Basu
April 13, 2020||Trichy||Trichy beating lockdown blues online||TRICHY: From making crafts using resources available at home and cooking new recipes to indoor activities, social media platforms and their users are finding novel ways to keep residents and children stay engaged during lockdown. With the lockdown continuing, residents are searching for activities to keep them occupied. As people have been spending more time on social media during the lockdown, city-based Facebook pages including I Love Trichy and Trichy Food Guide are making videos and posting on their pages for residents to learn new stuff. The virtual classes include crafts making, cooking new dishes and activities within the home to keep children engaged. Through live streaming, sessions are conducted on crafts making from scraps. “To keep people engaged and spend quality time, videos on making pen stand, key chain and flower bouquet from old magazines and newspapers were shared in the virtual training,” Jayashree Suresh, a jewellery stylist from Woraiyur, said. Crafts that can be made from used products including compact discs and newspapers have evoked a great response from the netizens. Similarly, live streaming of cookery sessions to make food items that are usually available in the restaurant but can be prepared at home were shared on social media groups. “Families will be in a compulsion to prepare healthy snacks for the children at home. So we shared videos on cooking healthy food with ingredients available at home including egg, bread and vegetable,” Gayatri Karthik, a food entrepreneur from Crawford said. With summer underway, videos shared for making health drinks has earned a great response. Educationalist also do live videos on the city-based social media platforms to advise parents of school-going children to engage their kids in day-to-day activities including cooking and cleaning to overcome the boredom while staying indoors.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/beating-lockdown-blues-online/articleshow/75113444.cms||Deepak Karthik
April 13, 2020||Ahmedabad||No trading at Jetalpur APMC vegetable market for two days||AHMEDABAD: Citizens need to be prepared for a 2-day vegetable shortage as APMC traders have decided to suspend trading at the Jetalpur APMC on Sunday and Monday. The Ahmedabad Vegetable General Commission Agent Cooperative Society had on Friday announced that they will stop trading of vegetables from Sunday for a week if the administration failed to work out a solution to overcrowding. Meanwhile, APMC officials who had promised to hold talks with the traders on Saturday had assured that a meeting with higher officials will be held on Sunday. But on Sunday the traders were told that as the CM had convened an emergency meeting, the meeting will be on Monday. “Since we are also worried of our health, we have decided to call off trading at Jetalpur on Sunday and Monday. Later, once the authorities hold a meeting we will act accordingly from Tuesday. The APMC at Jetalpur is a sitting duck for Covid-19 infection as over 5,000 traders from different parts of the city and even from areas of Walled City are coming here to purchase vegetables. There is no social distancing, and almost none wearing masks,” said Bharat Khamar the president of the traders association. “We are worried, as a trader from Kalupur who came regularly to the APMC tested positive on Saturday. We are not sure how many people would have been infected by the virus he carried,” said Khamar. If retailers coming to the AMPC get infected the virus may spread fast as everyone needs to come out of their homes to interact with local vegetable vendors. The traders want that the authorities should work out a solution so that social distancing is followed. The president of the association said that the APMC in coordination with AMC should work out a method where they can supply vegetables only to local traders from one place in each zone. APMC officials were not available for comments, but the traders said that the APMC officials working out a possible alternative to save the city.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/no-trading-at-jetalpur-apmc-vegetable-market-for-two-days/articleshow/75113145.cms||---
April 13, 2020||Mysuru||Mandya allows travel to other districts with M-Pass||MANDYA: The government is increasingly leveraging technology to reduce citizens’ difficulties during the lockdown, and one such instance is the decision of the Mandya district administration to issue mobile-pass (M-Pass) to ensure that those who need to travel either within the district or outside can do so without being subjected to checks at security points. Mandya deputy commissioner Venkatesh said that M-Pass mobile app was available on Google’s playstore, and those attending to emergencies could get the app online. “People can also get E-Passes, which will enable them to travel to neighbouring districts for transporting perishable products such as vegetables and fruits or for medical emergencies,” the DC said. Mandya superintendent of police Parashuram said that applicants, once they had downloaded the app, had to disclose the reason for travel and substantiate it with necessary documents, which they were to upload. “The requests will be processed online, and the passes will be sent to the applicants’ mobile phones. They can either print the pass or show the soft copy to the security personnel at the designated checkposts,” said Parashuram, adding that only genuine applications would be entertained.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mysuru/mandya-allows-travel-to-other-districts-with-m-pass/articleshow/75111669.cms||---
April 13, 2020||Trichy||Toddy good to make disinfectant, lift ban on tapping: Tamil Nadu Toddy Movement||TRICHY: The Tamil Nadu Toddy Movement has appealed to the state government to lift the ban on toddy tapping claiming that the drink can be used for producing disinfectants using it as a basic ingredient. Citing reports from Indonesia, coordinator S Nallasamy has stated that when disinfectants are becoming necessary to combat Covid-19, he has asked Tamil Nadu government to do the needful to use toddy for useful purposes. “The entire world is under the grip of the pandemic. As there is no medicine for the infectious disease, personal hygiene and maintaining social distance is stated to be the only solution to keep the virus at bay, and it has been advocated by the health department,” he said. People alleged that disinfectants and sanitizers are fast running out of stock in medical shops. In some places, these items are being sold for a higher price than the market rate, Nallasamy said. “To overcome the situation, the government should consider lifting the ban on toddy tapping in the state. If the ban is lifted, pharmaceuticals would come forward to produce disinfectants using toddy as it is being done by the government of Indonesia,” he said. “Toddy is part of food and not liquor. We have been telling that toddy tapping and its consumption is a food-gathering right given to the people by the Constitution. This apart, the government can safeguard people from withdrawal symptoms, when we start giving them toddy”, he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/toddy-good-to-make-disinfectant-lift-ban-on-tapping-tntm/articleshow/75113443.cms||---
April 13, 2020||Trichy||Liquor worth Rs 12 lakh seized, destroyed in Pudukottai||About 10,000 liquor bottles worth Rs 12 lakh were seized by the police in Pudukottai district and destroyed in the presence of revenue officials on Sunday. The liquor bottles were seized across 38 police stations and two prohibition and enforcement wings (PEW) over the last 20 days. The hoarded liquor were meant for illegal sale during the lockdown period. Over 500 cases have been registered in connection with the seizure of liquor bottles. A pit was dug near the police stations and the liquor was drained into it in the presence of revenue officials.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/liquor-worth-rs-12l-seized-destroyed-in-pudukottai/articleshow/75113446.cms||---
April 13, 2020||Jaipur||Cluster tests based on EPI model of WHO likely in Walled City||Jaipur: Based on the Epidemic (EPI) curve strategy of the World Health Organization (WHO), the state government is planning to conduct around 10,000 random tests, mostly in the Walled City area, from Monday. The method will be based on cluster sampling which will help the government to make the correct projection of the ongoing situation in the area. So far, 350 Covid-19-positive cases have surfaced from Ramganj and nearby areas, forcing the authorities to speed up testing. The source of the spread is one person who returned from Oman in mid March. “This is likely to be the second phase of a random test. In the first phase, 3,228 tests were done, mostly in three days, with over 200 persons testing positive,” said an official. The state is looking for a bigger strategy to gather data and gauge the situation in a more scientific manner. Cluster sampling will be done in two stages. The list of all wards of the Walled City with its population has been obtained from the census department. “In the second stage, clusters will be carved out by analysing the probability of cases proportionate to the population size on the basis of positive cases from that particular area,” reads the official document. The calculations made by the officials say that in most of the areas, every fourth house will be selected for sampling. From every selected house, every fourth or fifth member will be considered for the test. The sampling is likely to be done in the coming days. Sources said that the situation of Jaipur will be gauged after the result of cluster sampling.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/cluster-tests-based-on-epi-model-of-who-likely-in-walled-city/articleshow/75113448.cms||---
April 13, 2020||Pune||Pune: Foodgrain, pulses & edible oil prices shoot through the roof||PUNE: Retail prices of most grocery items, such as pulses, foodgrain and edible oil, have gone up considerably in the city with the nationwide lockdown to curb the spread of Covid-19 entering the 19th day on Sunday. Though most residents rued the heavy price they had to pay while stocking up the week’s ration, retailers attributed the rise in the grocery items’ prices to the increase in procurement prices from the wholesale traders and also transportation cost. For instance, tur daal, which was being sold for Rs90-100 a kg last week, now costs Rs130-140 per kg. Similarly, sugar price has gone up to Rs40-45 per kg as against Rs34-36 per kg last week. Sachin Nivangune, president of the Pune district retail merchants’ association, said, “Most shopkeepers told us that they had to increase the rates because they were purchasing all items at high prices in the wholesale market. Besides, transportation charges have increased almost three times. A tempo that used to charge around Rs400 now takes around Rs1,200 for the same trip.” He added, “Many shopkeepers visited the market themselves, but didn’t get any porter. They had to upload and unload their material. Considering all these things, the prices of most grocery items have gone up.” Nivangune admitted that a section of retailers was taking advantage of the situation. “We have received complaints about some retailers selling grocery items at steep rates. We have taken action against them with the help of police. The association, which has 15,000 member retailers across the city and the district, has urged all of them through video calls and WhatsApp messages to not resort to profiteering,” he said. The residents said there was no control over prices of many essential items. “Whenever we question the retailers about the high prices, they either blame the situation at the wholesale markets or say there’s no adequate supply. Nobody has much knowledge about the market behaviour, it seems. The authorities need to take necessary steps to check the price rise,” said Seema Kale, a resident of Nana Peth. Shanivar Peth resident Sanjay Sudame said, “The prices of foodgrain and pulses have suddenly escalated. From Rs50 a kg a few days ago, wheat is now sold for Rs75-Rs80 for a kg. One has to shell out Rs60 for a kg of rice, which was sold for Rs40 a kg even a few days ago. The prices of a 15-litre can of edible oil have gone up Rs250 to Rs300.” The retailers are attributing this situation to the demand-supply mismatch and price escalation in the wholesale market. “There is no adequate supply of edible oil and grocery items in the wholesale market. Besides, we have been facing a lot of difficulties in running our shops. Maintaining logistics and supply is also a challenge. We had to move around the city only to buy a litre of fuel. The retailers cannot sell material at low cost under such circumstances,” said Prashant Mahesh Wari, a retailer from the peth area. Pune Municipal Corporation commissioner Shekhar Gaikwad told TOI that the civic administration has also received complaints about price escalation. “It is bound to happen, as we have closed the wholesale markets. Now, there’s a demand-supply mismatch. We have to find a middle path and continue the grocery market at Market Yard. If people don’t get essential commodities, it will be difficult to manage the situation,” he said. Popatlal Oswal, president of the Poona Merchants Chambers Association, said its members would not open their shops from Monday.  “We have called a meeting to discuss the issue again on Monday. The district administration and the Pune police have vowed that our employees would not face any issue. But there are issues like getting supply from neighbouring states and the safety of drivers and porters,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/foodgrain-pulses-edible-oil-prices-shoot-through-the-roof/articleshow/75113111.cms||Sandip Dighe
April 13, 2020||Trichy||With 126 Covid cases from three districts, Karur MCH gets staff reinforcement||Amid an increasing number of Covid-19 positive cases from four districts, Karur government medical college hospital has got staff reinforcements including an additional dean and 15 government doctors from neighbouring districts for effective administration. An additional deputy director of health services (DDHS) also has been appointed for Karur district. The MCH is among the 18 exclusive ‘Covid-19 hospitals’ designated across the state to treat positive cases. A total of 126 patients from Dindigul, Namakkal and from within Karur are being treated in isolation wards at the hospital. Dean of Government MCH Perambalur Dr E Theranirajan has been appointed the additional dean and Dr Rajamohan deputy director of health services, Karur district. The 15 government doctors include two from Namakkal and five each from Pudukottai and Dindigul districts. All positives cases from Dindigul, Namakkal and Pudukottai districts will be shifted to Karur for effective treatment. Speaking to TOI, Karur medical college dean Dr Rosy Vennila said they are handling a large number of Covid-19 positive cases. “Further, ours is a new medical college and we do not have additional manpower unlike old medical college hospitals which will have postgraduate students,” she said. “Appointment of an additional dean will ease my burden in the administration so that we can focus more on the critical areas,” she said. It was on April 2 that 15 patients in the isolation ward of the medical college tested positive. All of them were attendees of the Tablighi Jamaat conference in New Delhi. The numbers have been consistently going up which stands at 25 from within the district alone.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/with-126-covid-cases-from-3-districts-karur-mch-gets-staff-reinforcement/articleshow/75113451.cms||---
April 13, 2020||Ahmedabad||Cops invoking stringent Acts against those flouting rules||Ahmedabad: With about 250 cases of violation of Section 144 and lockdown norms registered in the city on Saturday, police is now invoking Epidemic Diseases Act, 1897, along with Sections 188 and 135 of IPC to make the lockdown more stringent. City police commissioner Ashish Bhatia said the Epidemic Diseases Act is being invoked to impress the seriousness of the situation in minds of people who are flouting lockdown without valid reasons and endangering the public.Police sources said the Epidemic Diseases Act was invoked in most case registered since Friday for flouting of the police commissioner’s notification and lockdown norms.The Epidemic Diseases Act was originally enacted to tackle the bubonic plague in Mumbai in British India. Police officials said that the law is meant for containment of epidemics by providing special powers to the police.A senior police official said that any person or persons disobeying any regulation or order under the act is punishable under Section 188 of IPC.DGP Shivanand Jha on Sunday told reporters that still a lot of people are seen flouting lockdown norms, including social distancing. He said these people will be dealt with strictly according to the law.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/cops-invoking-stringent-acts-against-those-flouting-rules/articleshow/75113141.cms||---
April 13, 2020||Ahmedabad||Gujarat: Three flights arranged for British nationals||AHMEDABAD: In a major relief to British nationals who are stranded in Gujarat owing to the ongoing lockdown, three flights from Ahmedabad to London have been arranged to ferry passengers. Sardar Vallabhbhai Patel International (SVPI) airport will facilitate the operation of these relief flights in B747, B777 or B787 types of aircraft. One flight each by British Airways will operate on Monday, Wednesday and Friday – with flight numbers BA9113C, BA0117C and BA9117C respectively, and each will ferry approximately 300 passengers. Two flights on Monday and Wednesday have been approved and will arrive from London at 12.45pm IST and depart for London on 3.30pm IST on the same day. The third flight on Friday will arrive from Hyderabad at 9pm and depart at 10pm on the same day. SVPI airport authorities said that special care will be taken for facilitation of the passengers and their social distancing in line with directives of government of India. “SVPI Airport is requesting all passengers to please follow instructions of the staff on duty. The airport director is in constant touch with the British High Commission to ensure that no inconvenience is caused to passengers,” said a statement issued by SVPI airport authorities.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/3-flights-arranged-for-british-nationals/articleshow/75113143.cms||---
April 13, 2020||Delhi||Delhi: More than half of Covid-19 beds in hospitals occupied||NEW DELHI: Delhi’s designated Covid-19 facilities run by both the centre and the state have a total capacity of just 2,406 beds. Only a few beds are available in the private hospitals. Meanwhile, the spurt in cases in the state over the past month has left the system overwhelmed. As per the latest report on Covid-19 hospital status, only 44% of the total number of beds in public hospitals designated for Covid-19 treatment are vacant at present. This percentage is likely to reduce further as more than 2,000 Covid-19 suspects are under quarantine in isolation facilities being run by the state. If they test positive, some of these patients may also have to be shifted to hospitals, officials said. “At present, we are in stage II of Covid-19 spread. Transmission is being noted mostly among those with travel history and who came in contact of positive cases. A few cases of local transmission has also been observed. If the disease spreads in communities, more hospital beds will be needed,” said a senior official. Delhi government had initially planned to make Lok Nayak, which has around 2,000 beds, and G B Pant, which has around 800 beds, dedicated facilities for Covid-19 treatment to augment the infrastructure. However, G B Pant Hospital had to be removed from the list keeping in view the difficulties faced by general patients who are receiving treatment at G B Pant Hospital in super specialty streams. In an order issued last week, the state government said Lok Nayak hospital will create an additional 500 beds capacity by utilising the OPD spaces and newly constructed block of Maulana Azad Institute of Dental Sciences, in lieu of beds proposed to be designated in GB Pant Hospital. On Sunday, the state issued new orders directing the authorities at Guru Nanak Eye Centre to hand over 200 beds immediately to the head of Lok Nayak hospital with the existing paraphernalia. After Maharashtra, Delhi is the second-most affected state by Covid-19 with 1,154 cases and 24 deaths. Eighty five cases and five deaths were confirmed by the state government on Sunday. Among the new cases, 34 are related to the Nizamuddin cluster, but in order to avoid profiling of positive cases, the government has put their data under a new category called ‘positive cases – under special operations’.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/more-than-half-of-covid-19-beds-in-hospitals-occupied/articleshow/75113482.cms||Durgesh Nandan Jha
April 13, 2020||Dehradun||All calls to helpline being addressed without fail: Police||DEHRADUN: Dehradun senior superintendent of police/ deputy inspector general (DIG) Arun Mohan Joshi on Sunday said that police are "going the extra mile" to support migrant workers and poor people in the city and ensuring that no one sleeps hungry. He stressed that calls made to the 24x7 helpline number are being addressed without fail, saying, “We are running a 30-line 24x7 call centre and are receiving hundreds of calls every day. Each call is documented and addressed.” According to district police, 2.3 lakh people have been served cooked food by them and over 34,000 people have been so far provided with ration during the lockdown.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/all-calls-to-helpline-being-addressed-without-fail-police/articleshow/75112511.cms||---
April 13, 2020||Visakhapatnam||Tribal workers in E Godavari stranded||Visakhapatnam: Over 100 tribal migrant labourers from north Andhra districts find themselves stranded in Alamuru mandal in East Godavari district in the midst of the lockdown. The migrant workers were employed as labour in brick kilns in the mandal. An NGO, Global Aid, came to know about the plight of the migrant workers while distributing grocery kits recently to some families in Vizianagaram. The workers belong to hilly tribal hamlets in northern Andhra and are surviving on limited rations, in need of food and medical attention by the district administration. Sai Padma, founder-president of Global Aid, said, “We came to know that they are stranded in and around brick-making units of Chopalle in Alamuru mandal near Rajahmundry, East Godavari. We run schools in remote tribal villages of Vizianagaram and while distributing food and grocery to our beneficiary students and their families, we found out many of the tribals from the region and also from Visakhapatnam Agency areas have gone to work in various brick kilns in East Godavari with contractors. While recharging a phone number of a stranded worker, we got the information about 100 plus tribal migrant workers stuck in that area.” Pragnanand Busi, founder-secretary of the organisation said, “We have sent messages to the district officials in East Godavari requesting to search for and help the migrant tribal workers, who do not know Telugu, do not have an ID card or ration card and are likely to face scarcity of food. We tried to contact some brick kiln owners too.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/visakhapatnam/tribal-workers-in-e-godavari-stranded/articleshow/75112527.cms||Sulogna Mehta
April 13, 2020||Lucknow||Viral songs, toons, poems create corona awareness||Lucknow: Superstar Amitabh Bachchan recently took to social media to recite a poem penned by him on coronavirus asking everyone to stay safe. In doing so, he inspired not only celebrities but also the common man to find creative ways to end panic and spread awareness on fighting coronavirus. From doctors and scientists to professors, everyone is ready with animations, informative videos, literary and satirical pieces to make people aware of the precautionary measures to be taken to stop the spread of Covid-19. In a satirical piece, poet and technical officer at CDRI Pankaj Prasoon has written on how poetry by famous Urdu poets like Majaz, Nida Fazli, Mirza Ghalib and others would have changed in the time of corona crisis. “I wanted people to understand that there is no need to panic. We can handle this easily, so I wrote ‘Corona pe hans bhi lijye,’” said Prasoon. He said if Majaz would write today, his famous lines ‘Is aanchal ko parcham bana leti to achchha tha’.. would have changed this way. “Tujhe aati hai khansi ye bata deti to achchha tha... mera tu isolation kara deti to achchaa tha... tere maathey pe ye aanchal bahut khoob hai lekin, isko katwa ke tu mask banwa leti to achchha tha.” He said he had written a number of such pieces that people sitting at home could enjoy and forward to spread the message to stay safe.In another unique way, doctors of KGMU have penned a melodious coronavirus awareness song, which is one of the most pleasing appeals made. Titled, ‘May I help you, Namaskar’, the song has been sung by Dr Abhinav Singh, Dr Ritu Tiwari, Dr Abhishek Shukla. The lyricist and composer of the song are Dr Abhishek Shukla and Vaneet Panday. In the almost six-minute song, which has been shot aesthetically, doctors make an appeal to the public in a musical manner saying they should not panic, stay at home, get unsocial and listen to the song , “Jan jan ki yahi pukar, na hath milana yaar, corona ka bahiskar, karna hai ye chamatkar.”Senior principal scientist at CDRI Pradeep K Srivastava has also come up with ‘Corona Scientoon’ in which through colourful cartoon characters and caricatures, he gives a message on protecting yourself from coronavirus. The scientoon depicts how seriously Mr Bacteria takes the advice of Prime Minister Narendra Modi to stay wherever you are in a humorous manner. Scientist and head of earth resources division at Remote Sensing Applications Centre UP Aniruddha Uniyal has written a poem titled ‘Human and Corona into a fight’ on staying safe. A professor from Dr APJ Abdul Kalam Technical University has also come up with videos of what should and should not be done in battling coronavirus.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/viral-songs-toons-poems-create-corona-awareness/articleshow/75113459.cms||---
April 13, 2020||Vadodara||3 +ve in Khambhat, Anand’s tally at 8||VADODARA/ ANAND: With three more testing positive, Anand district’s positive cases tally rose to eight on Sunday evening. Two family members of a 53-year-old female COVID-19 positive patient of coastal town Khambhat tested positive on Sunday. The female resident had tested positive on Saturday. On Sunday, samples of her 33-year-old son and 62-year-old husband also confirmed the virus infection. The female, a home maker, had travelled to Uttar Pradesh between January 11 and February 21. Earlier, this month she started developing symptoms like fever, cough, abdominal discomfort, dyspnoea and general weakness. While this resident of Motiwala ni khadki was already under treatment at the isolation ward of Shree Krishna Hospital, Karamsad, her son and husband who were asymptomatic also tested positive. Another 26-year-old female from Navakhal village of Anand’s Anklav taluka also tested positive on Sunday. The woman had visited Vadodara’s Nagarwada area, which has been declared as red zone since Sunday last. She was admitted at Anand’s civil hospital on Saturday after she started suffering from fever and respiratory problems. After the female tested positive, Navakhal gram panchayat area has been declared as a contaminant cluster. All those who had come in her close contact are being checked. So far, 188 samples in the district have tested negative while 879 individuals have been kept under home quarantine. Thirty-two individuals are presently kept under quarantine in government facility. Before Khambhat and Anklav, one individual from Anand town and three others from Hadgud village, neighbouring milk city, have tested positive in the district.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/3-ve-in-khambhat-anands-tally-at-8/articleshow/75111417.cms||---
April 13, 2020||Pune||Pune police start inter-district passes for emergencies||PUNE: The Pune police have started issuing passes for inter-district movement of individuals for an emergency like a death in the family, a medical urgency or any other serious issues. The police are also allowing inter-district transportation of medicines and equipment and essential commodities. Deputy commissioner of police (Crime) Bachchan Singh said the facility was opened a few days ago and people can apply for such passes. The Pune police have already issued about 3.15 lakh digital passes, except for essential commodities/ services, banks, doctors, government officers, to citizens who faced various medical or essential commodities needs, he said. The movement as per the Inspector General of Police (L&O) circular is being facilitated through punecitypolice.grievance@gmail.com; permissions being given from the DCP crime office, he said. A query can be sent to CR WhatsApp numbers 8975953100, 8975283100. Once companies in Pune city get permission to operate from the appropriate authority, or joint director industries, digital passes for employees for their movement will be made available, he added. The police will issue permission letters for the employees who stay in Pune city but companies are located in the district limits. The permission will be granted after a letter from the concerned authority and a copy of the permission to the local police, the Pimpri Chinchwad police and Pune rural police is enough. There will be no insistence on digital passes, he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/cops-start-inter-district-passes-for-emergencies/articleshow/75113116.cms||---
April 13, 2020||Dehradun||Three killed, one hurt after car falls into gorge in Pauri||DEHRADUN: Three people were killed and one other sustained injuries after the car they were travelling in fell into a 200-metre-deep gorge in Rithakhal area of Pauri district late on Saturday night. On receiving information of the accident, a joint team of State Disaster Response Force (SDRF) and local police from Satpuli reached the spot and launched rescue operation that lasted several hours before the bodies were retrieved from the gorge. According to SDRF officials, all four passengers of the car were locals and were travelling within Rithakhal when the fatal accident took place, adding that the rescue operation continued till Sunday early morning. The deceased have been identified as Manoj Kumar (40), Kailash Chandra (39), and Mela Ram (42), all residents of Pauri district. The injured person, identified as Sandeep Kumar (42), has been admitted to a hospital and is currently undergoing treatment.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/3-killed-one-hurt-after-car-falls-into-gorge-in-pauri/articleshow/75112519.cms||Gaurav Talwar
April 13, 2020||Visakhapatnam||Start-up produces and distributes cotton masks||Visakhapatnam: A city-based start-up is producing and distributing cotton masks in view of the shortage of the protective equipment. The start-up, Green Waves Environmental Solutions (GWES), is also educating people on the use and disposal of masks. Five women have been employed by the start-up to make the masks in Mindi. Over 900 masks have been made and distributed in Mindi, Sheela Nagar, Sabbavaram and Duvvada. Anil Chowdary, managing director of GWES, said, “We need to leave the surgical masks for the medical fraternity and the patients. For the others, taking proper precautions and observing social distancing is the need of the hour.” “We are also using left over pieces of cotton which are generated while making garments,” said Chowdary.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/visakhapatnam/start-up-produces-and-distributes-cotton-masks/articleshow/75112554.cms||Reshma Jain
April 13, 2020||Ahmedabad||2 forge volunteer cards; arrested||Ahmedabad: They wanted to roam around freely during the lockdown period, but did not know how to do it. Then they hit upon an idea. They forged a volunteer card of Gujarat Nagrik Sewa Samiti issued by the Ahmedabad Municipal Corporation (AMC). Both Rehmat Ansari and Mohammed Waris were arrested for the crime in Maninagar on Sunday. According to the FIR lodged by Maninagar police station officials, during patrolling at about 7.45 am, they spotted a bike coming from the direction of Swaminarayan College. “There were two persons on the bike. We stopped them and, while maintaining social distancing, questioned them as to where they were going during the lockdown period. Ansari claimed he was a volunteer of Nagrik Sewa Samiti (Covid-19) and showed us a card believed to be issued by the AMC,” said S M Patel, inspector with Maninagar police station. However, the cops found the card fishy and interrogated Ansari, who broke down and confessed that he had got his friend’s card photo copied and had pasted his photo on it. “We suspect that there may be more tricksters like them who might have forged cars and may be roaming around freely in the city during the lockdown period. We are questioning the accused duo to find out more cases of such forgery,” added Patel.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/2-forge-volunteer-cards-arrested/articleshow/75113140.cms||---
April 13, 2020||Trichy||Four in Trichy, three in Karur test positive for Covid-19||TRICHY: With seven more cases reporting in Trichy and Karur on Sunday, the total number of Covid-19 positive cases in the central region climbed to 121 from Saturday’s 114. According to the bulletin released by the ministry of health and family welfare, Trichy district registered four more positive cases including a one-year-old child. Among them two people are hailing from Trichy city and two others from Thuvarankuruchi. With this the total number of cases recorded in the district has risen to 43 from 39. This is the highest number of positive cases registered in the central districts. The new cases were from the 165 family members and relatives of 36 Delhi returnees. Since the test results of 103 of 165 people turned negative on Saturday, the district administration was waiting for the results of the remaining 59. Of them, four tested positive, while the test of 15 more turned negative on Sunday. Health officials are awaiting the results of 40 more patients. The number of people under home quarantine in the district is 3,916 and their condition is stated to be stable. Of them, 2,921 have completed the required quarantined period of 28 days, district collector S Sivarasu told reporters. In Karur district, the tally has climbed to 25 with three more new patients testing positive. All the three were women - one from Pugalur and the two from Pasupathipalayam, all relatives of those who attended the Tablighi Jamaat conference in Delhi, officials said. As per the bulletin, no case was recorded in Nagapattinam, Tiruvarur, Thanjavur, Ariyalur and Peramblaur districts on Sunday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/4-in-trichy-3-in-karur-test-positive-for-covid-19/articleshow/75113473.cms||---
April 13, 2020||Trichy||St Joseph’s College offers certificate courses in graphic design online||TRICHY: Keeping students engaged in academic activity through virtual classrooms, St Joseph’s College has been utilising the lockdown period to equip them with entrepreneurial skills. The college is offering online certificate courses on graphic designing to interested students through online demonstrative lectures. Vimal Jerald, faculty from the computer science department, said that this is a skill based academic activity in which students are exposed to technology and they can learn on their own. “This course will help them become entrepreneurs and set up their own design shops. Further, they can also become graphic designers in IT companies and even try their hand in media houses,” he said. “We have already registered about 500 students for the first batch of the five-day programme. Google virtual classrooms have been created to accommodate students where we can upload course related material apart from audio visual instructions.” Students will be given assignments on a daily basis and given certificates based on their performance. While the certificate course is offered free of cost, the college has decided to engage students from all the department with such similar certificate courses during the lockdown.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/st-josephs-college-offers-certificate-courses-in-graphic-design-online/articleshow/75113464.cms||---
April 13, 2020||Dehradun||Uttarakhand HC to start hearing of cases through video conferencing from April 15||NAINITAL: With the country facing the prospects of extension of nationwide lockdown for at least two weeks, the Uttarakhand high court (HC) has decided to start hearing urgent and important cases through video conferencing from Wednesday. The HC as well as all subordinate courts in the state have remained closed since March 24 to contain the Covid-19 outbreak. According to the notifications issued by HC, for all fresh matters with extreme urgency, a summary of the case along with an emergency application justifying the “extraordinary circumstances” should be emailed to the court. HC has said that the criteria for urgent hearing will be the same as the criteria during holidays. The Registrar (Judicial) will be the nodal officer who will then place a summary and his report to the Chief Justice. “If Hon’ble the Chief Justice orders that the matter be placed before the court, the advocate concerned shall be informed to email the petition along with the annexure/documents,” read the notification, adding that if defects are pointed in the petition, the advocate will be informed by mail. For facilitating the hearing through video conferencing, the Registrar (Computer) has been asked to establish a control room with software professionals. The court has decided that video conferencing will be held only through three designated softwares and while the advocates have been allowed to take part in the hearing from their residences or offices in formal attires, if the advocates do not have these facilities they can participate in the hearing through a service room at the HC premises. The court, however, has prohibited the recording of the hearings. The decision by the HC comes on heels of the directions issued by the Supreme Court through a suo motu writ petition earlier this month. Meanwhile, in another notification, the HC has directed all the subordinate courts in the state to start hearing important matters such as remand, bail, release of property as well as filing of chargesheets, recording of statements under section 164 of CrPC and cases for urgent relief with application justifying the extraordinary circumstances.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/ukhand-hc-to-start-hearing-of-cases-through-video-conferencing-from-april-15/articleshow/75112543.cms||Prashant Jha
April 13, 2020||Lucknow||Uttar Pradesh: MSME minister drives 500km to CM’s meeting||LUCKNOW: A sense of involvement has swept across ministerial colleagues of chief minister Yogi Adityanath as he invited them for discussing post-April 15 scenario in the state to implement prime minister Narendra Modi’s mantra of ‘jaan bhi aur jahan bhi (life as well as our world). Sidharth Nath Singh, micro, small and medium enterprises minister, was in Noida when he received the invitation. He immediately took out his car and drove over 500 km to attend the CM’s meeting in Lucknow. Before leaving his residence in Noida, the minister had directed his driver and security guards not to accompany him as he wanted to follow the social distancing norms in true letter and spirit. Just two days before the 21-day lockdown was coming to an end, the CM invited ministers to his official residence on Monday evening and asked them to draw a roadmap for partially restarting pending works in their respective departments while maintaining social distancing and following all lockdown conditions. Though the CM had interacted with the ministers last week at the cabinet meet, but it was not a face-to-face meeting. It was conducted through video-conferencing to pass an ordinance for effecting 30 per cent cut in their salaries and allowances. Now, like IAS officers, the ministers would also start functioning from their offices from April 15. Earlier, they were told by the CM to work from their official residences. The CM constituted 12 committees under chairmanship of various senior ministers and the deputy CMs after the meet. “Although no decision was taken at the meeting regarding the constitution of these committees, it was finalised by the CM later,” said a senior minister on the condition of anonymity. Among those who attended the meeting included deputy CMs Keshav Prasad Maurya and Dinesh Sharma, ministers Suresh Khanna, Surya Pratap Shahi, Swami Prasad Maurya, and Shrikant Sharma.At the meeting, the CM reiterated that the state government would implement the PM's directives on the lockdown and would enforce his ‘jaan bhi jahaan bhi’ mantra. The CM told his colleagues that they would have to explore how they would restart works in their departments without breaking the lockdown condition and following social distancing norms.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/msme-minister-drives-500km-to-cms-meeting/articleshow/75113470.cms||Subhash Mishra
April 13, 2020||Pune||Students pull pranks during online classes||PUNE: From playing Bollywood songs during an ongoing class, to creating a separate group of friends and chatting while a lecture is underway, and even removing the online teacher from the list of participants, there seem to be a number of pitfalls attached to the virtual world of education during the lockdown. School managements said that while such mischievous incidents are few, they tend to disrupt the ongoing class. The teachers have warned students against such gags to ensure smooth functioning of the class. Sunanda Lakhani, a geography teacher, shared, “We have virtual class for about 45 minutes and initially we clubbed all students of one standard together but it became chaotic. It was also difficult to keep an eye on each student. We also discovered that in one class, a few students created a parallel group and started chatting with another while the class was on. One of the students recorded the conversation and sent it to the online teacher. We took action against the entire group.” After the incident, it was decided to conduct classes in small batches. Principal of Mansukhbhai Kothari National School Varsha Kothari said that, “Students come up with innovative ways of misusing the system without the teacher’s knowledge. From having incessant background noise while class is on, to signing in with vague names and scribbling on the screen. There are plenty of such instances but teachers know how to handle them.” Schools are using platforms such as the Microsoft Teams, Zoom, Google Hangout, among others, to teach students. Last week, a high-profile school in Magarpatta started a science class for Std IX students. The science teacher from the school said, “We use Microsoft Teams and each student is given a username and password. At one of the classes, we noticed that apart from the batch of 30 students there was an additional login that had no connection with the school. Someone else had logged in and our investigation revealed that one of the students had provided the login id to the outsider.” Citing these perils of online teaching, the Victorious Kidss Educares in Kharadi has added privacy and data protection measures to the virtual class and shared them with parents and students. School president Robbin Ghosh said, “The teachers were successful in developing the online class ‘essential agreements’, a strategy used to establish control in online teaching.” The schools also keep parents in the loop by sharing the entire day’s report along with the next day’s schedule. Director of City Pride School in Nigdi Ashwini Kulkarni said, “We have instructed parents to be with the children when they are online so they too remain connected with us. We think this should be an opportunity to bring the kids and parents together. The involvement of parents has also reduced misuse of the virtual class system.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/students-pull-pranks-during-online-classes/articleshow/75113119.cms||Swati Shinde Gole
April 13, 2020||Ahmedabad||No excuses, police have details of your house, shops in locality||AHMEDABAD: Think twice before giving any excuse to cops when they catch you roaming outside your home during lockdown. Now, the police are armed with every detail of grocery and milk shops in your vicinity, and more reasons on why one should not go for the morning or the evening walk. In around four days, police have booked nearly 50 persons when they went out for morning or evening walk. Many of them cited health issues but cops are instructed by their superiors to check about the person's disease with a health officer and tell the person that he or she should do exercise at home. Cops also know that the particular flat or tenement has enough space for a person to walk or do exercises. So, if a person insists that he or she does not have space in the house, the cops tell them not to lie and remain indoors. Inspector P D Darji of Satellite police said that they continue to book around eight to 10 walkers every day who come out of their houses without any valid reason. Another police official said many people give reason that they are going to buy vegetable or milk. "In such case, we seek the person's address. We then check the nearest milk and vegetable centre and in many cases find that the person is lying as he or she just wants to venture out in the open," said a police official.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/no-excuses-police-have-details-of-your-house-shops-in-locality/articleshow/75113139.cms||---
April 13, 2020||Mangaluru||Police struggle to enforce lockdown due to excess vehicle passes||Mangaluru: The police in Dakshina Kannada are at the receiving end due to the issuing of too many vehicle passes, without any cross-checking. Police say that they cannot implement the lockdown properly, due to too many vehicle passes being issued. They say that due to this, many people are roaming around in the district, most of them without any important work. Sources from the district administration and Mangaluru City Corporation (MCC) claim that as many as 10,000 passes were issued in the city limits. In Dakshina Kannada, e-pass and other passes are issued by the district administration, Mangaluru City Corporation, Covid-19 war rooms, banks, hospitals, essential industries and others. According to police, passes have been issued to people without any cross-checking. “I was conducting checking at a gate near Panambur for about an hour, and in such a short duration, I noticed that more than 1,200 people with passes entered and exited from the city. With such leniency, it is impossible to enforce the lockdown strictly. The authorities should have been more careful while issuing passes,” criticised a senior police official. “The movement of heavy vehicles in the city and district have reduced, but vehicles can still be seen plying on the roads round the clock,” said a police official. Another police officer, who was conducting checking at the entrance of the Circuit House, alleged that they have noticed several people are misusing passes issued for emergency services. “We have learnt that a single pass is being used by multiple people. Apart from it, many have printed fake passes. Issuing so many passes is not serving the purpose of the lockdown,” Have stopped issuing passes: DC Dakshina Kannada deputy commissioner Sindhu B Rupesh said that the district administration has stopped issuing any kinds of passes, except for daily passes for medical emergencies, from Sunday. Asked whether there were complaints of misuse or fake passes, Rupesh revealed that the police have expressed they are finding it difficult to manage the movement of vehicles, due to passes being issued in large numbers. “We are temporarily suspending issuing of passes, except in cases of medical emergencies,” she said. E-passes were issued by the assistant commissioner’s office in Mangaluru and Puttur. Inter-district passes are issued by the Dakshina Kannada district police and district administration. Police intensify crackdown on vehicles violating lockdown Mangaluru: The Mangaluru city police is all set to take tough measures against those who are violating the lockdown, especially motorists who are roaming in the commissionerate jurisdiction, without a valid pass. Police intensified the checking of vehicles in the city on Saturday. Police said that they are planning to seize the vehicles of those violating the lockdown. A police officer said that all vehicles, except those engaged in essential services, will be seized, and the owner must appear before court. Earlier, vehicles that violated the lockdown and were seized, were released after the accused paid the penalty. City police commissioner P S Harsha was unavailable for comment.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mangaluru/police-struggle-to-enforce-lockdown-due-to-excess-vehicle-passes/articleshow/75110908.cms||Kevin Mendonsa
April 13, 2020||Nagpur||At 17, district records day’s highest +ves, total now 44||Nagpur: Seventeen people (all Muslims) tested positive for Covid-19 on Sunday taking the total number in the district to 44. It is the highest recorded in a day since the first case broke out on March 11. The previous highest was six on April 9.One of the 17 positive patients is from Kamptee, another a Satranjipura resident and yet another a close contact of the cap seller from Takia Deewanshah in Mominpura who tested positive on April 4. Four are Tablighi Jamaats (TJs) from Jabalpur who were camping in Mominpura and the remaining 10 are relatives of the 68-year-old man from Satranjipura who is the only coronavirus-related death registered in the district.Municipal commissioner Tukaram Mundhe told TOI that the 17 cases were detected following NMC’s containment drives and orders of home ministry to trace people with digital footprints near the Nizamuddin Markaz, which is now the epicentre of Covid-19 cases in the country. “They were either in hospital or institutional quarantine,” he said.The number of positive cases from Satranjipura increased to 18 which includes the deceased. It is the highest from a single case as of now.Four of the 17 new positive cases are from a housing society on Katol Road and Rajiv Nagar on Kamptee Road.All cases could come to fore due to containment drive launched by team led by NMC additional medical officer health Dr Praveen Gantawar and zonal medical officer Dr Minakshi Mane.Additional medical health officer Dr Praveen Gantawar told TOI that the immediate family members of the deceased “did not give correct information”. “Over 50 close contacts were identified after inquiries in the area,” he said.The NMC will notify the two houses as epicentre and a 3km radius area will be cordoned off as containment zones. Door-to-door survey to identify suspected and high-risk patients will be undertaken.On Sunday, Mundhe also expanded the containment zone in Central Nagpur. Earlier, Takia Deewanshah in Mominpura was in focus after a cap seller, whose digital footprint was found in Nizamuddin, tested positive. Now, entire Mominpura — from Motibagh railway under bridge, Pachpaoli railway over bridge, Agrasen Chowk and Poddareshwar Ram Mandir — has been notified as a containment zone.Barring emergency work, residents of this area cannot step out. The civic body will conduct door-to-door survey to identify suspected and high-risk patients.Following orders of MHA and gathering of information from other sources, the NMC had traced, examined and quarantined 281 persons including 60 TJs who are non-residents of city and camping here on a religious tour.Nagpur Markaz secretary Abdul Bari Patel said, “The 8 TJs of Jabalpur arrived here on March 17. After lockdown, they moved to Darul Salah on March 22. This is three houses away from the residence of the cap seller. Four of the eight tested positive. They were under quarantine at MLA Hostel.”NMC zonal medical officer Dr Kwaja Mainuddin informed that the son of the owner of the building in which the cap seller was a tenant tested positive today. “He is under quarantine at Lonara College,” he said.The owner, who was bedridden and admitted at Mayo Hospital, tested negative. So did the cap seller’s wife and three children.Thirty-eight people, including 8 from Kamptee who had digital footprints in Nizamuddin, were quarantined from Nagpur rural. Kamptee tehsildar Arvind Hingne said that one of them tested positive “and is under quarantine at MLA hostel”.“The 24-year-old was studying in a madrasa in Deoband in Saharanpur district (UP). He went to Nizamuddin railway station to board a train to Kamptee on March 21. His four family members were traced and are quarantined at Symbiosis University, Wathoda,” said Hingne.Similarly, a Satranjipura resident, whose digital footprint was found around the Markaz, too tested positive. He is quarantined in MLA hostel since April 4.Reports of Kamptee-based 23 TJs, who returned from Amravati and Chandrapur, and many from the list of 281 from city are awaited.With the virus spreading, Mundhe said people should take the lockdown seriously. “People should stay home and avail of all facilities at doorsteps. While stepping out for emergency work, people should wear mask and maintain social distancing,” he said.Mundhe also wanted those suffering from fever, dry cough and breathlessness to contact NMC for a check-up. “Eight positive persons recovered and have returned home,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/at-17-district-records-days-highest-ves-total-now-44/articleshow/75113130.cms||Anjaya Anparthi
April 13, 2020||Lucknow||Long locks go down as wives turn barbers||Lucknow: As the 21-day lockdown is likely to be increased by 15 more days, growing and greying tresses are adding to people’s stress levels. While men are desperately seeking their wives’ help in haircut long overdue, women are trying home-made measures to colour their greying locks as they don’t have access to beauty parlours. Not only Bollywood actress Anushka Sharma gave a hair-cut to his cricketer husband Virat Kohli, but Hazratganj resident Savnit Gurnani also groomed his husband Rahul as they continue to stay indoors. The fashion stylist posted a video on her Instagram page where she is seen trimming her husband’s beard. “Quarantine has really changed out lives. Today, I have become my husband’s master barber,” wrote Savnit. Similarly, one Priyanka Saini is looking for ways online to colour her hair as salons and parlours are closed due to the lockdown. “I tried to stay comfortable with my natural hair, but somehow it doesn’t feel good. I cannot try any product at home since shops are closed and only essentials are available. As soon as the lockdown ends, my first stop will be a hair salon,” added Saini.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/long-locks-go-down-as-wives-turn-barbers/articleshow/75113478.cms||Aditi Singh
April 13, 2020||Pune||Pune: Duo transport liquor, arrested||PUNE: The Pune rural police arrested two men at Manjari Khurd on Saturday for transporting liquor in a milk supply vehicle. The police recovered 140-litre of country-made liquor and empty cans from the vehicle. A team from the Lonikand police, which was deployed at the check point in Manjari on Saturday night, noticed a mini-truck coming towards Lonikand. “The vehicle’s windscreen mentioned ‘emergency services, milk supply’. However, we became suspicious when we tried to stop the truck, the driver accelerated and tried to mow down a police constable,” an officer from the Lonikand police said. The police team led by sub-inspector Hanmant Padalkar forced the driver to stop the vehicle. “On checking the vehicle, we found 140-litre of country-made liquor and several empty cans,” the officer said. The two arrested men are from Katraj in Pune. Prima facie probe revealed that the duo had transported the liquor in the milk-supply vehicle and sold it in and around Pune. “We have registered an FIR against the duo,” the officer said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/duo-transport-liquor-arrested/articleshow/75113122.cms||---
April 13, 2020||Trichy||Spreading smiles, awareness memes keep residents cool||Meme creators have been playing a constructive role during the lockdown by spreading awareness among the residents to stay home to avoid contracting Covid-19. Besides awareness, funny mistakes while working from home and dubious claims mocking the decline in pollution level during the lockdown are doing rounds in the social media to keep the people relaxed. "Memes we notice on Facebook brings spontaneous laughter. We share such humorous contents in WhatsApp groups having friends and family members to spread the smile," P Venkatesh, a 45-year-old resident of E Pudur added. Satirical takes mocking the difficulties in working from home are among the most received by the netizens. Apart from preventing people from panicking with funny posts, city-based Facebook pages are also promoting awareness among the residents to stay home and to stay safe. "Government and medical professionals are doing a lot to eliminate the virus. As social distancing and staying home are cited as the best preventive measures, we are encouraging people to abide by the laws," Rockfort Vicky, a meme creator from Trichy, told TOI. City-based social media pages and groups report a sharp spike in the audience sharing their posts since the last week of March. Usually, weekends bring great traffic to social media pages. However, the people behind the pages said that irrespective of weekdays and weekends, their posts relating to Covid-19 are attracting at least 4,000 views against the 2,000 views a day before the lockdown.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/spreading-smiles-awareness-memes-keep-residents-cool/articleshow/75113479.cms||Deepak Karthik
April 13, 2020||Patna||Start OPDs at Sadar, sub-divisional and private hospitals: Bihar CM Nitish Kumar||PATNA: CM Nitish Kumar on Sunday asked health department officials to resume treatment of general patients at all Sadar and subdivisional hospitals after observing necessary protection norms in the wake of Covid-19. The outpatient departments (OPDs) in these hospitals were suspended since March 25 after declaration of the nationwide lockdown by the PM. While reviewing the works of heath department through videoconferencing from his residence, the CM also asked all private hospitals across the state to resume treatment of general patients. Contacted over phone, principal secretary (health) Sanjay Kumar said most of the Sadar and subdivisional hospitals would begin emergency services and OPDs in the next two or three days. “First of all, we will resume emergency services and institutional delivery. After that, we will begin OPD in all these government hospitals,” Kumar said, adding, “Since we are not admitting Covid-19 patients at the Sadar hospitals, there is no chance of intermixing of them with the general patients.” The CM asked the principal secretary to ensure adequate supply of personal protection equipment (PPE), masks and gloves to the Sadar and subdivisional hospitals for protection of doctors and paramedical employees. He also asked the health officials to ensure availability of medicines, PPE, masks and other necessary items in sufficient quantity at all the hospitals where Covid-19 patients were being admitted and treated. Sanjay informed the CM that sufficient quantity of sanitizers were available in the state. He said besides a factory at Hajipur, sanitizer was also being manufactured at the Rajgir ordnance factory. He said all necessary protective equipment and items were being made available to the doctors, nurses and paramedical employees engaged in testing and treatment of Covid patients.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/nitish-start-opds-at-sadarsub-divisional-pvt-hosps/articleshow/75111721.cms||Madan Kumar
April 13, 2020||Dehradun||Two more Covid-19 patients recover, Uttarakhand now left with 28 active cases||DEHRADUN: Two Covid-19 positive patients admitted to Doon Hospital, a US national and a 21-year-old Dubai returnee, recovered on Sunday after their last two tests turned out to be negative. With this, the state is now left with 28 active novel coronavirus cases as no new case was reported for the fourth consecutive day on Sunday. Dr NS Khatri from Government Doon Medical College (GDMC) confirmed that the two patients admitted to Doon hospital have recovered after their swab tests reports came negative twice in the past couple of days. “While, the 21-year-old has now been asked to stay at home in isolation for the next 14 days, the US national has been shifted to the general ward of Doon hospital. Doctors will conduct the test on him once again before he gets his sanction from concerned departments to return to his country,” he said. According to the health department, no new novel coronavirus case was reported from Uttarakhand on April 12. The number of people quarantined at homes across the state touched 53,970 on Sunday while the number of people in intuitional quarantine is at 1,823. As many as 373 people are there in hospital isolation in the state. A health official said that the department is awaiting 333 reports till April 12.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/two-more-covid-19-patients-recover-ukhand-now-left-with-28-active-cases/articleshow/75112563.cms||Ishita Mishra
April 13, 2020||Trichy||Infected Nagai doctor’s patients urged to come for screening||NAGAPATTINAM: The district collector has appealed to the residents of Kadambadi in the town and those who visited a private clinic to come forward voluntarily for a screening, as a doctor who was running a clinic on the locality tested positive for Covid-19 on April 9. Meanwhile, health department officials have identified 51 people who had visited the clinic and have appealed to the general public to come forward for testing to avoid community spread, collector Pradeep P Nair told reporters on Sunday. “The government has the norm not to disclose names of the Covid-19 patients. Since, there is no option to identify those who visited his clinic, we are forced to announce the doctor’s name,” he added. The officials have also given two mobile numbers, Dr Thirumurugan: 9751425002 and Raghavan: 9500493022 to call and convey their details. A resident of Velippalayam in the town was running Malar Clinic at Azhagar West Street. Retired senior civil surgeon C Kumarappan, 67, who had been consulting patients at the clinic, tested positive for Covid-19. He had been treating his regular patients of Kadambai locality for ordinary ailments. After developing Covid-19 like symptoms during the first week of April, he approached the government hospital in Nagapattinam on April 7 and swab sample was sent to Tiruvarur Government Medical College Hospital for testing. He has quarantined himself at his home since April 7. As the result came positive, he was taken to Chennai and has been admitted to Apollo Hospitals. Meanwhile, the total number of Covid-19 positive cases remains 24 as no new cases were reported positive on Sunday in Nagapattinam district.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/infected-nagai-docs-patients-urged-to-come-for-screening/articleshow/75113476.cms||---
April 13, 2020||Aurangabad||District’s guardian minister missing during crisis: AAP||AURANGABAD: The Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) unit of Aurangabad said that the district guardian minister Subhash Desai, who is also the minister of industries, has been missing while people in the district face various issues during the pandemic and the nationwide lockdown. Complaints regarding ration availability, a dearth of PPE kits for medical staff and health machinery are increasing, but the guardian minister Subhash Desai is nowhere to be seen, AAP said. Citing the various issues in the city, Marathwada spokesperson for AAP Sugriv Munde said that the Aurangabad district needs the government’s attention in various areas during this time of crisis. “The guardian ministers of other districts are in their respective districts providing supervision and guidance in various administrative matters. However, the guardian minister of Aurangabad Subhash Desai is from Mumbai and, therefore, is stationed there. If Aurangabad’s guardian minister was a local, the district would have seen better management during the pandemic,” Munde said. Desai has not addressed a single message to the residents of Aurangabad district since the lockdown was announced. He has not made any public telephonic address. Munde said that the cases of Covid-19 in the district are rising but the health machinery is not equipped to manage them. “The doctors and nurses are demanding personal protective equipment while serving emergency and Covid-19 cases in Government Medical College and Hospital. We have found that many public distribution system (PDS) shops do not have enough ration or some of them are shut. People are confused about how to procure grocery,” Munde said. The AAP has demanded immediate attention and response from the minister and the state government towards the various pressing issues faced by the district.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/districts-guardian-minister-missing-during-crisis-aap/articleshow/75112586.cms||---
April 13, 2020||Aurangabad||Social distancing rules go for a toss as crowds throng Aamkhas Maidan||AURANGABAD: The decision of the Aurangabad Municipal Corporation to start vegetable markets in 40 different spots across nine zones has backfired with many people crowding the premises without even wearing masks or maintaining social distance. On Sunday, a heavy rush was witnessed at the Aamkhas Maidan vegetable market with most people ignoring even the basic coronavirus-related precautions. Last week, the AMC commissioner had announced that the retail purchases from the Jadhavwadi wholesale vegetable market would be stopped to prevent constant overcrowding. The AMC also listed 40 places in nine zones, where it said that the vegetable markets will be put up to spread customer footfall. Iqbal Bawani, president of Shahgunj Vyapari Sangh said that the retailers are cooperating with the administration but on the condition that social distancing is followed, people should be allowed to sell vegetables in Shahgunj. For the last three days, the Aamkhas Maidan vegetable market witnessed blatant violation of lockdown rules. The market is in close proximity to high-risk areas of Aref Colony, Jalal Colony, Ahebab Colony and Kiradpura jeopardising the Covid-19 containment efforts. People were seen rushing to the market as the prices there were considerably lower. AMC city engineer Sakharam Panzade, who is also a member of the coronavirus task force team, said the AMC has done markings for social distancing and has told the vegetable vendors to utilise the spots in each zone to sell fruits and vegetables. “It is the responsibility of the police to ensure the markings are followed and parking is done outside the ground. I have spoken to deputy commissioner of police Nikesh Khatmode and he has assured me that from Monday, the crowding will be prevented,” he said. 28,250 people screened under containment plan The AMC has sealed 11 locations in the city after confirmed Covid-19 cases emerged from the areas. According to AMC medical officer Archana Rane, 103 health teams undertook to screen of 6,223 households in which 28,250 people were screened within the sealed areas. “No persons with symptoms of Severe Acute Respiratory Infection (SARI) or Covid-19 were found,” Rane said. Three foreign nationals and 189 locals in the city with a travel history and contact history are home quarantined by the AMC. Currently, 35 people are in institutional quarantine of the civic body. On Sunday, 3,924 people entering the city via different check posts were screened by the AMC. 106 throat swabs were collected on Sunday of suspected patients reporting to district civil hospital, Government Medical College and Hospital and private hospital. No positive cases were reported on Sunday but swab reports of 81 persons are awaited from the Virus Research Diagnostic Laboratory at GMCH.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/social-distancing-rules-go-for-a-toss-as-crowds-throng-aamkhas-maidan/articleshow/75112599.cms||Arpita Sharad
April 13, 2020||Mysuru||Couple tie the knot according to Kuvempu’s ‘Mantra Mangalya’||MYSURU: The son of former advocate general and activist Ravivarma Kumar on Sunday tied the knot with the daughter of a contractor in a ceremony shorn of frills, and in keeping with the spirit of poet laureate Kuvempu’s idea of ‘Mantra Mangalya’. Simple wedding ceremonies have become the norm following the enforcement of the lockdown, and many couples have even gone to the extent of tying the knot online. On Sunday, in a similarly minimalistic ceremony, R Abhi Mandela married Navya, a wildlife activist, in a ceremony where no Sanskrit hymns were chanted nor any Vedic rituals performed. The ceremony was held at the bride’s home in Lakshmipuram, with the retired inspector-general of the Central Reserve Police Force (CRPF) K Arkesh reciting lines from the book, Mantra Mangalya, which the bride and groom repeated in an exchange of vows. There were no more than ten guests at the ceremony, among whom were former minister Geetha Mahadeva Prasad and former MLC Y Mahesh.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mysuru/couple-tie-the-knot-according-to-kuvempus-mantra-mangalya/articleshow/75111727.cms||---
April 13, 2020||Agra||Unable to get ambulance, Mainpuri woman breathes her last on handcart||Agra: A 46-year-old woman died in Mainpuri on Sunday after her family allegedly failed to get an ambulance for her on time. As the vehicle did not come for over 40 minutes, her nephew, Jitendra Rathore, rushed her to the district hospital’s emergency on a handcart, but she was declared “brought dead” there. Mainpuri district magistrate (DM) Mahendra Bahadur Singh has ordered an inquiry into the matter while the additional SP hinted the possibility of negligence by ambulance drivers and the '108' service. The woman has been identified as Guddi Devi. Her husband, Laxmi Rathore, and their son, who work as tailors in Jaipur, were on their way to Mainpuri in the evening, after learning about the tragedy. The duo had been stuck in Rajasthan since the nationwide lockdown came into effect on March 25 and were issued passes to travel to Mainpuri after Jaipur police verified the incident with their counterparts in Uttar Pradesh. According to police, the incident took place at 5:30am when Guddi Devi fainted while climbing up the stairs, after which her family frantically dialled '108' for ambulance service several times. With no help coming their way, they took her to the hospital on the cart, almost two kilometres from Katra locality, where they live. She could not survive. The Mainpuri DM told TOI that prima facie, there is a lapse on the part of '108' ambulance service, but other aspects are also being looked into. “We need to know the cause of death and CCTV footage of the district hospital will be scanned to get a clear picture of the incident," he said. “I have asked the officials to investigate whether district health officials or ambulance service were responsible,” he added, assuring that strict action will be taken by the administration. Mainpuri additional SP OP Singh said that according to family members, the victim was operated upon for abdominal tumour seven months ago. She was feeling difficulty in breathing on Sunday, and then she fainted, Singh added. He further said, in preliminary inquiry, it was revealed that her family called for ambulance service on '108' and one driver did not pick up the call while another driver told the call centre that his vehicle had a punctured tyre. A third driver, who was contacted, claimed that he was going to the spot, but never turned up, according to Singh. Officials told TOI that postmortem of the deceased will be conducted only after "her husband's approval".||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/agra/unable-to-get-ambulance-mainpuri-woman-breathes-her-last-on-handcart/articleshow/75112594.cms||Anuja Jaiswal
April 13, 2020||Pune||Pune: Katraj zoo initiates steps to avoid spread of coronavirus to wildlife||PUNE: The management of Rajiv Gandhi Zoological Park, or Katraj zoo, has started taking preventive measures to curb any possibility of the spread of coronavirus from human to animals. Use of PPE kits has been made mandatory for zoo staff. Personal hygiene norms and sanitization has been implemented strictly. The animals will have to undergo medical tests only if they are found to be symptomatic. Read the entire story on TOI+  What zoos are doing in times of Covid-19||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/katraj-zoo-initiates-steps-to-avoid-spread-of-coronavirus-to-wild-life/articleshow/75113127.cms||---
April 13, 2020||Hyderabad||Suspension of child immunisation irks parents||Hyderabad: Discontinuation of the routine immunisation programme for children, due to the Covid-19 lockdown, is turning out to be a big headache for the lakhs of parents, who are worried that if it is not administered at the right time, their kids may fall prey to other infections. The Telangana government had temporarily halted the immunisation programme for children after the nationwide lockdown was declared on March 22. The programme was shelved after the union ministry of health and family welfare issued a directive in this regard to all the states. Now, the state government’s decision to extend the lockdown till April 30 has left many parents jittery about their children’s safety.  “@KTRoffice We are residents of #Chandanagar #Hyderabad. Our 5 month old baby is pending vaccination since 30th March as the hospitals and clinics are shut down due to #COVID-19. Kindly suggest if any doorstep vaccination service is available,” tweeted Tanushree Bhattacharya. To this, the minister responded, “We are doing it. Spoke to health minister @Eatala_Rajender garu about this yesterday.” Doctors claim delay in administering these vaccines may pose a risk for infants immunity. “If rota-virus vaccine is not administered within three months of birth, it cannot be administered at a later stage,” said Altaf Naseem, pediatrician at Candy Children’s Hospital.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/suspension-of-child-immunisation-irks-parents/articleshow/75113487.cms||Preeti Biswas
April 13, 2020||Pune||Pune: Siblings make shield masks for non-medic frontline staff||PUNE: Siblings Kaushik (19) and Jahnavi Prayaga (17) have developed low-cost shield masks at home for non-medical frontline personnel, such as sanitation workers and security guards, after learning about shortage of personal protective equipment across the country. “We stayed up one night to research about the functionality and other aspects of such masks. We then devised a prototype that we experimented on our father. However, he faced difficulty while using the mask since he wears spectacles. So we re-worked the design and added padding on the forehead section of the mask,” said Kaushik, a first-year engineering student. Jahnavi said, “We used file covers, which are made of comparatively sturdy plastic, for the shield. The padding is made from rolled-up hand towels and a draw string runs through the towel roll to be used for tying. We assembled all these to make the masks. During one testing, we noticed that the shield flares towards the bottom. To avoid this, we bent the edges inward so that the mask can properly shield the face and neck.” The duo said they made 50 masks on Thursday and 50 more on Friday last week. “All frontline workers need the personal protective equipment kits in the time of Covid-19. These types of masks can be made locally and distributed among the non-medical workers. I am conducting further research into making masks for medical professionals as well. If I can get the material, I can tweak the design and make masks for the medical professionals as well,” Kaushik said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/siblings-make-shield-masks-for-non-medic-frontline-staff/articleshow/75113132.cms||Rujuta Parekh
April 13, 2020||Hubballi||Thermal scanner must at ATMs in Dharwad||DHARWAD: Deputy commissioner Deepa Cholan on Sunday directed banks in the district to compulsorily install thermal scanners at the entrance of their ATMs. An expert should be deployed at ATMs to screen customers and record their medical history. The register containing these details should be submitted to the health department on a daily basis, she said. Deepa also directed medical shops to maintain records of people purchasing paracetamol-based drugs. Pharmacists have to record the name, mobile number and address of those making over-the-counter purchase of such drugs. The details should be submitted every day to the drug controller’s office. Selling paracetamol-based drug without recording the identity of the person amounts to violation of Karnataka Epidemic Disease, Covid-19 Regulations 2020 and stern legal action will be initiated against such pharmacists, she warned. The DC said that measures to screen people and contain Covid-19 have been beefed up and banks have to cooperate with the government in this regard.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hubballi/thermal-scanner-must-at-atms-in-dharwad/articleshow/75111004.cms||---
April 13, 2020||Ahmedabad||Stones to flowers, surprise for cops in Shah-e-Alam||AHMEDABAD: The visuals of hapless cops trying to shield themselves against heavy stone pelting during the anti-CAA protests in Shah-e-Alam area in December 2019 are still fresh in public memory. However, barely four months have passed, and the scene has changed. The Sunday patrolling in Shah-e-Alam area came as a pleasant surprise for assistant police commissioner Rajpalsinh Rana who was seriously injured in the stone pelting incident. Leading the patrolling party, he now found himself being showered with flower petals by locals. Isanpur police inspector J M Solanki too was surprised by the spectacle when 40-odd cops received such a warm welcome with flowers. The residents came out in their balconies and started clapping for the cops in appreciation for their services during the lockdown. Incidentally, it was Solanki who had to place nearly 80 persons from the area behind bars for the December 2019 riots. Solanki said that the cops regularly started patrolling from Millatnagar area to Shah-e-Alam Darwaja. “Today also, about 40 police personnel led by our ACP started our routine patrolling from Millatnagar. As we came towards Shah-e-Allam, people standing in their balconies started showering flowers on us and clapped for us. It made us feel proud of our job and we all realized that people appreciate our work,” he said. ACP Rana also could not hide his feelings: “We know that some of the people living in the area are poor. After the lockdown, the police have shown willingness to help them by supplying food and medicines. We have been rewarded for our service.” ACP Rana added: “I told my policemen that the flowers were meant for them because they were the ones who had been working in the field.” Shah-e-Alam has witnessed more than 30 Covid-19 positive cases till date.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/stones-to-flowers-surprise-for-cops-in-shah-e-alam/articleshow/75113138.cms||Sarfaraz Shaikh
April 13, 2020||Patna||Urgent cases to be filed in Patna courts through emails||PATNA: The lawyers can file urgent petitions before the six sub-divisional courts in Patna district through emails from April 15 till the lockdown continues to contain Covid-19 spread. Hearing on the petitions will also be held through videoconferencing. The district and sessions judge of Patna issued an order in this regard on Saturday to avoid congregation of lawyers on court premises. Under the new arrangement, separate emails have been created for six sub-divisional courts at Sadar, Barh, Patna City, Danapur, Masaurhi and Paliganj in Patna district for lawyers to send their petitions in recommended format for urgent hearing. Public prosecutor Vijay Kumar Sinha said it is for the first time that such a method had been introduced in subordinate courts in the state. “Lawyers had been filing hard copy of the petitions before courts till now. The new system has been introduced on the Patna high court’s direction. Under the process, lawyers need not come to the court at least for filing of urgent cases,” Sinha said. The lawyers would appear for argument before judges through their cellphones, laptops or computers. Sinha said virtually no hearing is taking place in subordinate courts in Patna amid lockdown and Covid-19 threat. The petitions, which are received till 9.30am every day, would be placed before the court concerned, which would decide if the matter needed urgent hearing or not. The Patna high court had taken up urgent cases for hearing on the basis of petitions filed via email this week. On March 19, the Patna high court had become the first high court in the country to conduct hearing through videoconferencing in view of the Covid-19 threat.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/urgent-cases-to-be-filed-in-patna-courts-through-emails/articleshow/75111731.cms||Debashish Karmakar
April 13, 2020||Nagpur||Heart patient dies after pvt hosps deny entry||Nagpur: A 70-year-old heart patient died in Buldhana before he could reach the civil hospital in the town. The two private cardiac hospitals where the deceased, Mehdi Hasan Ansari, was first taken did not admit him and instead sent him to the civil hospital. Doctor at one of the private set-ups said the patient was denied admission to rule out any Covid-19 infection at the hospital. The deceased’s son, Israr Ahmed, has uploaded a video on social media describing how two private hospitals refused to treat the patient. The incident took place on April 2. Ansari complained of stomach burn and chest pain at around 2pm. “Being a heart patient and since an angiography was also planned, the family suspected that it may be a heart attack and took him to a cardiologist,” Israr told TOI. Israr has named two hospitals in the video. The first is run by Dr Deepak Laddhad and the other belongs to Dr Amol Kothalkar. Both are cardiologists. Dr Laddhad told TOI that the admission was denied because the new guidelines call for ruling out any possible Covid-19 infection first. “Any patient having slightest of symptoms of Covid-19 like fever or breathlessness has to be reported to the civil hospital,” he said. “The patient must have been denied admission because of the same reason. The hospital should not turn into a hotspot because of one infected person,” he said. Symptoms like breathlenees seen during a heart attack are also there in Covid-19 patient. The patient should have been taken to the civil hospital without wasting time,” Dr Laddhad said. Israr said his father was undergoing treatment from Dr Abhay Kothalkar, but as Dr Laddhad’s hospital was closer he was taken there first. “Dr Laddhad said that they are not allowed to take the patient in. The staff at Dr Kothalkar’s hospital too diverted us to civil hospital,” said Israr. Dr Kothalkar told TOI that he was away for lunch when the patient arrived. “As it was an emergency case, the staff asked them to go to the civil hospital,” he said. Civil surgeon Dr Premchand Pandit said there were no such guidelines to refer cases to civil hospital to rule out Covid-19 infection. “The doctor can exercise his discretion,” he said. The first Covid-19 patient of Buldhana was initially admitted to a private hospital. He was later referred to civil hospital after his condition deteriorated. He died within two hours of reaching the civil hospital. LIFE LOST 70-year-old heart patient develops chest pain on April 2, rushed to cardiologist nearby Doctor cites guidelines on preventing Covid-19 infection for denying admission Pvt hospital where patient was already undergoing treatment too refuses to admit patient No guidelines to refer patients to civil hospital to avoid infection, as per civil surgeon||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/heart-patient-dies-after-pvt-hosps-deny-entry/articleshow/75113135.cms||Shishir Arya
April 13, 2020||Dehradun||Sightings of wild animals and birds increases in Mussoorie and Dehradun||MUSSOORIE/DEHRADUN: The ongoing lockdown having confined humans in their houses, wild animals and birds are having a field day venturing into spaces near towns and cities they would never go before. This has increased sightings of wild animals and birds near human habitations in Mussoorie and Dehradun. Late evening on Saturday, a leopard was caught on CCTV camera, moving around freely on the main road near the campus of Woodstock school in Mussoorie, causing panic among residents. “An adult leopard wandered casually on the main road near the school, and was caught on CCTV camera,” said a resident of the area. The sighting of the leopard so close to a busy area caused much excitement as well as concern among residents of the area. In Hathipaon and Cloud End areas on the outskirts of Mussoorie, sightings of ghural and barking deer, and their predator, the leopard, has increased. “Since the lockdown, I have seen ghurals and barking deer several times on the Hathipaon-Cloud End road in the morning, said Birbal Singh Chauhan, a forest official who lives near Cloud End. Chauhan said he had also heard the growl of leopards in the evening, while other residents also reported leopard sightings. “The lockdown is providing an opportunity for wildlife to venture into spaces near human habitations,” Chauhan said. Sightings of rare birds has also increased. According to Abhai Mishra, an avid birdwatcher from Doon, during the past few weeks, he has sighted several birds near his house which are usually not seen near habitations. “Over the past week, from the balcony of my house, I have spotted Western crowned leaf warbler, Grey treepie, Slaty-headed parakeet and Tiger flycatcher, among other birds,” Mishra said. He explained that generally, these birds are not seen so close to human settlements, but lack of human activity and less noise may have prompted them to venture closer. “Western crowned leaf-warbler is generally seen at higher altitudes. I have never seen one near my house in Doon,” Mishra said. He added that he had earlier spotted the Tiger fly-catcher — a migratory bird from Central Asia — in bushes or trees, but now, he had spotted one sitting calmly on the road near his house. Residents of Mussoorie also reported sighting more birds near their houses. Those living in the outskirts reported sighting jungle fowl as well on the roadside.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/sightings-of-wild-animals-and-birds-increases-in-mussoorie-and-doon/articleshow/75112611.cms||Anmol Jain
April 13, 2020||Aurangabad||92 shell out Rs 500 each on Day 1 of ‘mask on’ campaign||AURANGABAD: The civic administration has started fining citizens found venturing out on the streets or public places without wearing a mask from Sunday. Many who had ignored the repeated instructions from the government authorities and the administration had to cough up a penalty for not wearing a mask. As per data issued by the Aurangabad Municipal Corporation (AMC) on Sunday evening, as many as 92 people had to shell out Rs 500 each for not wearing masks on the first day of the civic body’s ‘mask on’ campaign, taking the total fine collection to Rs 46,000. Taking cue from state home minister’s appeal to citizens in Pune, Mumbai, Nagpur and Nashik to ensure that they cover their mouth with a mask while stepping out, municipal commissioner Astik Kumar Pandey issued a directive on Saturday stating that people found on the roads or public places without overing their faces would be fined Rs 500. The move, he said, was aimed at containing the spread of coronavirus. Under the supervision of assistant commissioner Nandkishore Bhombe, nine vigilance squads or Nagrik Mitra Pathaks of the AMC comprising ex-servicemen were deployed in different zones of the city on Sunday morning to fine those found venturing out without a mask. In the official letter released on Saturday, Pandey stated that Rs 500 was to be slapped on first-time offenders. If citizens were caught violating the mandatory mask protocol for the second time, the civic administration should lodge police complaint against them. So far, 20 confirmed Covid-19 cases have been reported in the city. While one person has succumbed to the infection, one person has also recovered. The treatment of 17 positive cases is underway at the district civil hospital. One patient is undergoing treatment at a private hospital.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/92-shell-out-rs-500-each-on-day-1-of-mask-on-campaign/articleshow/75112608.cms||---
April 13, 2020||Aurangabad||Leopard injures six in Pachod village before being trapped||AURANGABAD: A leopard that had strayed into Phergaon village in Pachod in the wee hours of Sunday was caught in the afternoon by a team of forest department and police officials. However, before the big cat could be caught, it had already injured six people — a journalist, police sub-inspector, two forest department staff and two farmers. Four of the injured were released after administering first-aid while two people, including the journalist, are still undergoing treatment at a hospital. As the news about the leopard being spotted in Phergaon village spread, people from neighbouring villages also started coming in to see the animal, making it difficult for the police to handle the situation. The forest department and police were informed about the leopard at around 7.30 am. The police team, led by assistant inspector Atul Yerme, reached the village by 8.30 am, while the forest department team reached the village by 11am. Prior to the arrival of the forest department team, police had already deployed a drone camera to asses the situation and spot the animal. The delay in arrival followed by the time taken to arrange and set up the cage led to an altercation between the policemen and forest department officials. The leopard was finally caught with the help of a net at around 1.30pm. The animal was tranquillised and brought to Aurangabad where a medical check-up was carried out. Later, it was decided that the animal will be released in Gautala Autramghat sanctuary.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/leopard-injures-6-in-pachod-village-before-being-trapped/articleshow/75112625.cms||Mohammed Akhef
April 13, 2020||Visakhapatnam||VZM yet to report any Covid case, only 317 tested so far||Visakhapatnam: Only 317 Covid-19 tests have been carried out in Vizianagaram so far, of which 215 samples have tested negative and results of 102 samples are awaited, according to medical authorities of Vizianagaram district. The districts of Vizianagaram and neighbouring Srikakulam have not recorded any Covid-19 positive cases yet. These are the only districts in Andhra Pradesh where no positive cases have been recorded so far. According to officials, this is because of the manner in which the lockdown was imposed both in the district of Vizianagaram and across the border in Odisha. “The manner in which the lockdown was implemented played a crucial role in restricting the spread of the virus in the district,” said Dr SV Ramani Kumari, DMHO Vizianagaram. She added, “We have been following the guidelines to the hilt. So far, we have tested people who returned from abroad, people who have come in contact with them, those suffering from severe acute respiratory infection or influenza-like symptoms.” “There has been no deviation from norms whatsoever,” Dr Ramani Kumar maintained. The DMHO further said that there was no room for random testing. She added that all those who have been tested in the district had either come voluntarily or were identified by neighbours and relatives. Medical authorities clarified that they have been issuing public notices asking people to come forward and get tested. District collector M Hari Jawaharlal said, “Apart from volunteers and health workers conducting door-to-door survey, the third phase of which ended a few days ago, we are taking all other measures to increase the sample base.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/visakhapatnam/vzm-yet-to-report-any-covid-case-only-317-tested-so-far/articleshow/75112610.cms||Venkatesh Bayya
April 13, 2020||Lucknow||AC service, short-circuit, flat tyres: Small issues pose big challenges in Lucknow||LUCKNOW: With the day temperature hovering around 40 degrees Celsius and the lockdown likely to extend till April 30, issues considered small during normal days are set to pose a major challenge to people. From installing desert coolers and servicing of air-conditioners to maintenance of vehicles or electronic equipment all these works are not possible during the lockdown. Most of the people are not certain how they would mange these tasks in case the lockdown be extended for two more weeks. TimesViewAdministration has already allowed maintenance services in LDA approved buildings with several conditions. It can also consider permitting a small technical repair centre to operate with at least two technicians in every locality. These services can be made available on call. Service provider should adhere to all precautionary measures. People also need to be careful while using electrical and electronic appliances because allowing outsiders at this point of time is risky.Varun Burman, a resident of Rajajipuram, needs to replace stabliser of his air-conditioner which had developed snag last year. “I had planned to get it repaired this summer. But no electrician is available now. I do not know how I will manage without air-conditioner when temperature will cross 40 degrees Celsius,” he said. Expressing similar views, Rameshwar Shukla, who has to go to office daily as he is associated with essential services, said that a tyre of his two-wheeler got punctured recently. “As no repair shop is open due to the lockdown I had no option but to borrow motorcycle from my neighbour,” he added. Ajay Kumar of Nishatganj had planned to buy a new cooler this summer, but shops are closed. “No technician is available to even install an old one,” he said. Shanti Pathak, a resident of Aliganj, had to live without electricity for two days after lights of his house went off due to short circuit. However, after two days she, somehow, managed to contact an electrician and the problem was sorted out. Usually in normal days getting leakage in overhead tank corrected is not a big task. But this turned out to be a major challenge for Harjeet Singh, a resident of Rabindrapalli, who could not find a plumber for three days. The problem could be fixed when one of his friends requested a plumber to visit the house. Mohammad Furquan of Khurram Nagar, is also in a difficult situation these days. His car battery is discharged and he is not sure what to do. Srishti Tripathi of LDA colony and her family are lucky to have good neighbours. Recently her gas stove started leaking and she was left with no option but to put it off. Now, her neighbours are taking care of their daily meals and Srishti is confident of getting her stove repaired soon. Pankaj Verma of Alambagh is trying to locate a technician who can repair his television set which has developed some snag. “I have no other source of entertainment. Service centres are also closed,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/ac-service-short-circuit-flat-tyres-small-issues-pose-big-challenges/articleshow/75113491.cms||Rahul Tripathi
April 13, 2020||Dehradun||Children find innovative ways to stay busy during lockdown||MUSSOORIE: Forced to stay indoors due to the Covid-19 lockdown, children are resorting to different learning and leisure time activities to keep themselves busy. While some are trying hands at cooking, some are taking music lessons online, and so on. “I introduced my kids to online learning courses which are free. My son is learning coding and my daughters are taking singing classes and learning German language,” tells Smriti Hari, a city resident. She added that people are trying to involve their kids in constructive activities so that they learn some new skill during the lockdown. Some parents are also engaging their kids in yoga to better their mental and physical health. “I conduct yoga classes for my kids every morning and they are learning pranayama and several other asanas,” says Ashok Mahendroo, another local. He adds that yoga compensates for the lack of physical activity during the lockdown. Several children, especially girls, are taking to arts and crafts to keep themselves busy. “My daughter is recording tutorial videos in which she explains the process of making pop-up cards and candles,” tells Pallavi Gupta, a city resident. Gardening and cooking are also becoming popular among children. Meanwhile, playing online games and watching cartoons and movies are still the biggest hits among kids. “Kids have been spending two to three hours each day teaming up with their friends on various online platforms. At times, it becomes difficult to control them,” says a parent who did not wish to be named.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/children-find-innovative-ways-to-stay-busy-during-lockdown/articleshow/75112638.cms||Anmol Jain
April 13, 2020||Aurangabad||Cops feed the poor, supply essentials to needy people amid lockdown||AURANGABAD: With the lockdown in place and restrictions imposed on the movement of people, police have turned into good samaritans by arranging for food and dry ration kits for countless poor people, destitutes, stranded migrants on the highway as well as for those residing in slum pockets and remote places. Senior officials like municipal commissioner Astik Kumar Pandey and his wife Mokshada Patil, who is also the superintendent of Aurangabad rural police, have already donated a month’s salary for the needy people. Commissioner of police Chiranjeev Prasad has donated 250 dry-ration kits, each containing enough elements for a family of four to sustain for a month, from his personal savings. Under the community policing initiative of the city police, assistant inspector Ghanshyam Sonawne has already roped in a few NGOs like Payam E Insaniyat, Aurangabad First, Dhaval Kranti Foundation, Aurangabad Educational and Welfare Society, Islamic Research Centre Education and Welfare Trust, Al-Farhan Welfare society for distributing food packets, ration kits and other products related to personal hygiene among the poor people. ISKCON as well as industrialists and police officers have been going out of their way and making individual contributions. An industrial house has come forward and donated about six lakh soaps weighing 100g each for distribution among the poor people. Sonawne said that on an average, 1,200 food packets and at least 100 dry ration kits were being distributed among the poor and needy people in different parts of the city. The city as well as the rural police have kept their toll free number (100) open for receiving calls of those in need and connecting them to those who are willing to offer any help or assistance. In Aurangabad rural, each police station has identified the number of people belonging to the below poverty line (BPL) category, especially the tribals, backward communities, destitute, single women and senior citizens. Apart from making their individual contributions, local traders and NGOs have also been roped in for catering to this people. Patil said that since the imposition of the lockdown, her team had managed to help over 7,000 people with dry ration kits as well as food packets. “I find that there is no dearth of those who want to help in any way but don’t find the appropriate avenue. There are those who need help of every kind during times of distress. The ration kits usually given consists of grains but not oil, spices and salt, which is central to Indian cooking,” said Patil. “We bridge the gap between those who want to help and those who are in need. Helplines are being extensively used by people in the rural areas, especially by women and those with disabilities. Our personnel have gone out of their way to help destitute women, pregnant women, single women as well as senior citizens,” said Patil.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/cops-feed-the-poor-supply-essentials-to-needy-people-amid-lockdown/articleshow/75112646.cms||Mohammed Akhef
April 13, 2020||Vadodara||Tailor held for spreading rumours about virus medicine||VADODARA: Crime branch sleuths arrested a man on Sunday for spreading rumours about coronavirus medicine in the name of PM Narendra Modi and US president, Donald Trump. The police said that the man was circulating an audio clip that made fake claims of a medicine for coronavirus being brought to the country. The clip that has voice of some unidentified person says that PM Modi visited the US some time ago and met Trump. “Now, a medicine has been made in the US and it will be brought to India in a month and half.” The voice also suggested that who will be given the medicine will be decided later. The clip was accompanied by a photo of some cargo boxes being unloaded from a plane. The cybercrime cell received a complaint regarding this audio clip following which it conducted investigations. “We arrested 19-year-old Salman Khan, a resident of Ajwa Road. Khan is a tailor by profession. Such fake messages spread panic among people and it is a crime, especially during such crisis. We are now investigating how he got the clip,” said Jaydeepsinh Jadeja, DCP (crime).||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/tailor-held-for-spreading-rumours-about-virus-medicine/articleshow/75111448.cms||---
April 13, 2020||Visakhapatnam||Sanitisation tunnel in VZM||Visakhapatnam: The Vizianagaram district administration has set up a sanitisation tunnel at the VT Agraham Y-Junction to ensure that people entering Vizianagaram district from Visakhapatnam are sanitised before they enter. The tunnel has been made in collaboration with Aurobindo Pharma Foundation. While inaugurating the tunnel on Sunday, district SP B Rajakumari said that the tunnel would help screen and sanitise all commuters entering Vizianagaram district from Visakhapatnam. She said that all those who enter this tunnel will be thoroughly screened and quarantined if need be. The SP further said that only vehicles carrying essential commodities, goods and medical transport vehicles will be allowed to pass through. She said that there have been no positive cases in the district so far because the lockdown was implemented strictly.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/visakhapatnam/sanitisation-tunnel-in-vzm/articleshow/75112637.cms||---
April 13, 2020||Nagpur||45 labourers taken in custody||Wardha: Police rescued 45 labourers from a truck which was carrying them from Bhiwandi to Allahabad, at Khadka check post on Mumbai-Nagpur highway on Sunday evening. Cops took the labourers in custody and seized the truck. Hailing from Uttar Pradesh, the labourers were travelling from the last two days and had covered around 700km when they reached Wardha district boundary, where police stopped the truck for disinfecting.District administration had installed a checking system at 16 spots at Wardha district’s boundaries on Sunday. It is learnt that since the lockdown, the labourers’s company owner in Bhiwandi was not giving them food to eat. They decided to leave Bhiwandi and reach their home state. An offence had not been registered till the time of filing this report and investigation was underway.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/45-labourers-taken-in-custody/articleshow/75112641.cms||Balwant Dhage
April 13, 2020||Nagpur||Bar permit cancelled for violation||Yavatmal: The district collector MD Singh has ordered cancellation of bar permit of Wani-based Akshara Restaurant and Bar permanently for violating ban on liquor sale during the curfew period in view of the coronavirus outbreak. Five employees of the bar were arrested by Wani police and obtained their PCR for two days. The police have seized liquor worth Rs 4.23 lakh stocked by the bar owner Pravin Sarode late on Saturday. In yet another action, the police have seized country liquor worth Rs 2.17 lakh from M/s Sai Enterprises.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/bar-permit-cancelled-for-violation/articleshow/75113154.cms||---
April 13, 2020||Mangaluru||Coast Guard enhances surveillance along K’taka coast||MANGALURU: Indian Coast Guard district headquarters 3, Panambur, has enhanced surveillance along the coastline of Karnataka. The Coast Guard has tasked its two offshore patrol vessels (OPV) to conduct prolonged and extensive surveillance along the coastline to patrolling of the exclusive economic zone. In addition, interceptor boats (IB) and interceptor crafts (IC) are being deployed for patrolling near the coastline, up to Kasaragod in the south and off Karwar in the north. DIG S B Venkatesh, commander, Coast Guard Karnataka, said these operations are necessary for ensuring foolproof security of the uninhabited islands, as well as preventing any unwarranted landings on the shoreline, in the wake of the Covid-19 pandemic. “We are taking every measure possible out at sea, to ensure that the district administrations in Karnataka carry out their duty of keeping the pandemic under check on land,” he said. Hovercrafts have been deployed to carry out patrolling near the coast. They facilitate smooth execution of search and rescue operations, and provide security cover over land and riverine routes. The OPVs, with smaller interceptor boats and interceptor crafts, are continuously conducting seaward patrolling. The Coast Guard is also maintaining electronic surveillance through the coastal security network system. The air enclave of Coast Guard too will be deployed in case of an emergency, he said, adding the Airports Authority of India, that maintains the old airport at Bajpe, has assured assistance for such operations. The Coast Guard last few a sortie of a Dornier aircraft on March 23 from its air enclave, Venkatesh said, adding it will now have to step up its vigil at sea, given that the government has permitted fishing, by fishermen on country boats.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mangaluru/coast-guard-enhances-surveillance-along-ktaka-coast/articleshow/75110937.cms||---
April 13, 2020||Ahmedabad||Wear a mask in Ahmedabad or pay hefty fines||AHMEDABAD: Wearing a mask is now compulsory in cities in Gujarat. Ahmedabad municipal commissioner Vijay Nehra issued an order on Sunday stating that wearing a mask while stepping outside home has been made compulsory in Ahmedabad city and non-compliance will invite a fine of Rs 1,000 for first-time offenders and Rs 5,000 for subsequent instances of breaching the rule. Refusal or failure to pay the fine will attract action under IPC Section 188 and relevant sections of the Epidemic Diseases Act, 1897 with successful prosecution leading to punishment. Nehra stated that the order will come into effect from Monday morning 6am and will continue till further orders. While Surat had already made it mandatory a week ago, Ahmedabad, Rajkot and Vadodara followed suit on Sunday with the municipal corporations issuing orders.  While justifying the step taken in the interest of the public, Nehra stated that several positive cases have been detected in the city and some studies have found that wearing of facial masks substantially thwarted the spread of Covid-19. Rajkot municipal commissioner Udit Agrawal said, “People can cover their faces with ready-made or homemade masks,handkerchief or any other cloth.” In Ahmedabad, joint enforcement teams (JET) and solid waste management officials have been assigned the responsibility . Even CCTVs will be roped in every city to fine people. In the rest of the municipal corporations Ward officers have been asked to ensure strict implementation of the directive. Those found with their faces open will have to cough up Rs 1,000 as fine for the first time and then Rs 5,000. Most people in the city have already started covering their faces when venturing out. Surat Municipal Corporation (SMC) had already started penalizing people for not wearing masks in the city a week ago. Till now, over 500 people have been fined for not wearing masks in public places. Moreover, SMC is also penalizing those who don't maintain social distancing at public places.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/wear-a-mask-in-ahmedabad-or-pay-hefty-fines/articleshow/75113103.cms||---
April 13, 2020||Lucknow||Don’t violate lockdown in Ramzan: Cleric||Lucknow: With a fortnight left for the holy month of Ramzan, chairperson of Islamic Centre of India and Imam of Aishbagh Eidgah, Maulana Khalid Rasheed Farangi Mahali, has advised Muslims to observe roza and perform allied religious practices at home, in keeping with lockdown norms. The Sunni cleric, who is also a member of the All India Muslim Personal Law Board (AIMPLB), on Sunday, said the holy month is likely to begin from April 25 and the nationwide lockdown may be extended beyond April 14. “So, people are advised to observe roza (fasting) and iftar (meal to break fast) in evenings at home. There should be no congregational prayers in mosques and namaz should be offered at home. Only those who stay or are staying in mosques should pray there, but they should also adhere to social distancing norms,” the cleric said . In a 12-point advisory, the cleric exhorted people to fast and pray for the end of the covid-19 pandemic in the holy month. “And those who arrange iftar parties should instead give the money in charity. Not more than five people should be present at a time in a mosque and people should perform the ‘taraweeh’ at home,” the cleric said. Days before Shab-e-Bara’at, both Shia and Sunni clerics had appealed to Muslims to pray at home and not visit graveyards. To ensure compliance of lockdown, gates of several graveyards in the city were locked by caretakers in Lucknow. Earlier, the government made it clar that there would be no point in easing the lockdown if there was even a single case of coronavirus in the state.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/dont-violate-lockdown-in-ramzan-cleric/articleshow/75113502.cms||---
April 13, 2020||Jaipur||No universal lockdown withdrawal: Task force||Jaipur: The state government’s 13-member Covid-19 task force recommended the Centre to lift the lockdown in a phased manner across geographical areas, sectors, age-groups and other vulnerable population. The report made it clear that there “cannot be a universal lockdown withdrawal order on a pan-India basis”. The task force, headed by additional chief secretary (home), Rajeeva Swarup, submitted the report to the state government on April 10. It has already been sent to the Centre for consideration. The task force was formed to give suggestions to the government on the withdrawal of lockdown. “In the initial period, the positive cases were few and sources identifiable. However, the position changed dramatically on account of the Tablighi Jamaat incident. This has contributed to a spurt in the number of positive cases in recent times,” the report observed. It said that “the lockdown should ideally continue till a consistent decreasing trend in a defined geographic area and population is achieved”. The panel was of the view that under the current circumstances and varying geographic spread of Covid-19, decision and the modalities of withdrawing the lockdown should be entrusted to state governments. “It may not be appropriate that the conditions of the phased withdrawal are determined by the government of India for the entire country as has been done for the three-week period,” it said. The state government was of the opinion that the Centre might regulate certain issues pertaining to testing and medical treatment of Covid-19 cases, international and inter-state movement of people, supplies of medicines, medical equipment and essential items, goods and transport services, movement of migrant labourers and opening of central government offices. “The state governments may be authorized to take all further decisions in respect to the manner in which they propose to lift the restrictions in a phased manner within the boundaries of their respective states, keeping in view the hotspots and conditions prevailing in different districts,” it said. The committee recommended a phased relaxation of lockdown based on local district-level situation. Districts may be classified as high-risk, medium-risk and low-risk. “In high-risk areas, lockdown shall continue without any further relaxations and ruthless containment measures shall be undertaken in hotspot areas and areas under curfew orders,” it suggested. “In medium-risk areas, movement of private vehicles shall be allowed with restriction of one person in one vehicle and ruthless containment measures shall be undertaken only in curfew-affected areas; in low-risk areas, government offices shall resume with 50% roster-based attendance and industries shall be allowed to operate with 50% strength; and in no-case districts, government offices, industries and construction activities shall resume with 100% attendance and public transport services may resume with permission of maximum 50% passenger capacity in each vehicle,” it recommended.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/no-universal-lockdown-withdrawal-task-force/articleshow/75113511.cms||Sidhartha Dutta
April 13, 2020||Nagpur||Dragon Palace to donate 1L re-usable cloth masks||Nagpur: At a time when the country is going all out to tackle coronavirus, women in Kamptee town, some 25km from Nagpur city, are doing their bit by stitching re-usable cloth masks. “Under the patronage of Dragon Palace Temple, a Buddhist shrine in Kamptee, around 500 women are stitching one lakh cloth masks which will be donated to the needy,” said temple founder and ex-MLA Sulekha Kumbhare. Kumbhare, who is supporting TOI’s #MASKINDIA campaign, said that Dragon Palace Temple and Ogawa Society are sponsoring the fabric and other material required for making the masks. Around 800 women associated with the Dadasaheb Kumbhare Multipurpose Training Institute and familiar with tailoring were tasked with producing the masks in view of the growing demand. Kumbhare, who is the founder of the training institute, was seen monitoring the mask stitching work. “Dragon Palace is doing its bit in the fight against Covid-19 by stitching masks. The first lot of 10,000 masks will be donated on April 14, the birth anniversary of Dr Babasaheb Ambedkar,” she said. The government has made it mandatory for citizens to wear masks before venturing out of their homes. “People were seen making a beeline for masks while many are still wearing handkerchiefs. I have also seen poor people going out without masks,” said Kumbhare.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/dragon-palace-to-donate-1l-re-usable-cloth-masks/articleshow/75113155.cms||Proshun Chakraborty
April 13, 2020||Lucknow||Team Yogi On Mission Corona Combat||With 459 cases till April 11, the state with the largest population has done reasonably well to check the spread of Covid-19. Amid speculations of lockdown extension, TOI gives a lowdown on Team Yogi that is on the forefront of this unprecedented battle... Lucknow: Novel coronavirus undoubtedly is one of the biggest challenges the mankind has ever faced. It warranted an unprecedented response, especially in Uttar Pradesh, the state with the largest population and not so good public health system. The state, under CM Yogi Adityanath, responded with the urgency the situation demanded. One and half months after the first case appeared in the state, UP's response to the crisis had earned accolades from the Centre. First, bare facts: On March 1, when the disease knocked at UP's doors, there was no lab specialised in Covid testing and all samples would be sent to NIV Pune. It has now 14 labs with capacity of 2000 tests per day. When it all started, the dedicated medical facility to tackle the disease was almost nil. Now, the state has 78 dedicated hospitals, over 9500 isolation beds and over 12000 quarantine beds. As on April 11, UP had 459 cases, much below less populated states, but it is ready for a bigger challenge. Another challenge was to ensure the livelihood of a vast population which depends on daily wages. The government has already transferred Rs 1,000 to over 35 lakh daily-wagers and labourers through direct benefit transfer. Besides, over 12 crore people—almost 50% of UP population—has received foodgrain through the PDS. Almost 35% of them have got it for free. If these feats look like some sort of miracle, one must look at the planning that has gone into this. And how Yogi, who has this image of being a lone ranger, has emerged as a perfect team leader. After March 15, just when the crisis was about to take a giant proportion, he formed 11 committees with specific tasks. He selected 11 officers to lead each of them. Although there were voices of resentment on total absence of ministers in these panels, but he remained unfazed. As these 11 teams were cracking, Additional chief secretary, home, Awanish Awasthi became his go-to man for anything related to the crisis—be it transfer of money to labourers or fire-fighting in the wake of a rumour about sealing of 15 districts. Similarly, principal secretaries of health and medical education departments, Amit Mohan Prasad and Rajneesh Dubey, were given the charge of waging the battle on the medical front. Similarly, Sanjeev Mittal, in the helm of revenue department, was given the task of ensuring a relentless flow of cash to sustain this battle. Unlike his other counterparts who are running their offices through video-conferencing and Skype, Yogi, himself, is always in action, traversing the length and breadth of the state to tackle one crisis after the other. When Noida was emerging as an epicentre of the disease, he rushed to the NCR and gave marching order to the GB Nagar DM, when he found him unequal to the challenge. The CMO was the next. Noida, thereafter, has presented a much better picture. When he was still in the NCR, the migrant crisis hit the state. It was an unforeseen challenge. After initial chaos caused by lakhs of migrants thronging the Delhi border and walking all over the state to reach home, Yogi took the command in his hand. He dashed back to Lucknow and held a meeting late in the night to resolve the crisis. He wrote to 20 chief ministers, requesting them to take care of UP labourers and arranged over 3000 buses to take them back. Over 3.5 lakh of them brought back and first kept at quarantined centres set up all over the state. Yogi himself rushed to highway and met abandoned labourers and ordered that 24-hour kitchen should be set up for them in all districts and made DMs accountable for them. Now, his day starts with a series of meetings on the crisis and ends with planning for the next day. Union home minister Amit Shah had remarked during investment summit in Lucknow in 2018 that when Yogi was selected as the UP CM, there were obvious questions about his lack of administrative exposure. “Yogiji is compensates for this through his work ethics,” Shah had remarked. While facing the biggest challenge of his three-year tenure as the CM, Yogi has proved him right. Awanish Awasthi | Additional chief secretary (ACS), home & information Most trusted lieutenant of the CM ever since he took charge in March 2017, he is now the de facto commander-in-chief in the war against Covid-19. He is eyes and ears of the CM and executes his vision afer taking inputs from key departments. He holds forth before media to inform them about each and every move of the government to contain the crisis Sanjeev Mittal | ACS, finance & finance commissioner Holding a crucial position, this officer with a quiet demeanour ensures that there is no hinderance to the free flow of funds to tackle this unprecedented crisis. From raising funds to fortifying health infrastructure to ensuring a record direct benefit transfer to labourers, workers and displaced poor, Mittal has proved his prowess Amit Mohan Prasad | principal secy, medical & health department In the key position of the head of health department, Prasad is responsible not only for keeping a close watch on the virus spread, but also for ensuring optimum utilisation of resources, and adding facilities in the shortest possible time. He is a key member of the team that daily meets the CM and draws strategy for combating the disease Manoj K Singh | principal secy, rural development & panchayat If UP govt managed to deliver foodgrain to over 12 crore people in a few days and the payment to MNREGA workers with a click of mouse in view of the statewide lockdown, the credit should go to this low-profile bureaucrat, who is rarely seen in public. As the head of rural development department, he also monitors round-the-clock community kitchens for over 3 lakh migrant workers Rajneesh Dubey | Principal secy, medical education Heading the team which is working tirelessly to raise medical infrastructure at govt medical colleges and universities, Dubey is credited with setting up 11 Covid hospitals, including one in SGPGI, and meeting the 11,000-bed challenge for quarantine and isolation in less than a week’s time. An MBBS, he is personally monitoring the procurement of PPEs, masks and other essentials for coronavirus warriors Navneet Sehgal | Principal secy, MSME & exports Known as a ‘high-impact’ officer, he has opened his MSME sector for ensuring adequate availability of PPEs and N95 masks. He has also ensured that units producing pharmaceuticals and other medical equipment remain functional with proper social distancing in the lockdown period. Besides, flour and bread factories have also been facilitated to provide essentials to the people Bhuwanesh Kumar | Principal secy, dairy and animal husbandry He is facing the challenge of not only supplying milk to 23 crore people, but also feeding 5 lakh cows in government-run cow sheds, 2 lakh stray dogs and over 1 lakh monkeys in temples in the state. He has saved over 10 crore people, incluing 3 crore milk producers, from ruins by ensuring that dairies remain functional during the lockdown Alok Sinha | Agriculture Production Commissioner Another low-profile officer, he has opened a command and control centre and is supervising agriculture and dairy operations which are key to provide essential goods Devesh Chaturvedi | principal secy, agriculture He has prevented an agrarian crisis by seeking a quick approval from the Centre to allow farm operations during the lockdown so that the rabi crops could be harvested. The movement of farm machines and farm workers has been allowed without any restrictions and agri operations are going on in the state in full swing. His fast move saved over 2.5 crore farmers from ruins Sanjay Bhoosreddy | principal secy, sugar & excise Sanitizers from liquor factories was an out-of-the-box idea which Bhoosreddy, as the head of excise department, implemented in no time. Today, distilleries all over the country are emulating his idea and bottling sanitizer to fulfil the demand. UP’s own prouction has hit 60,000 litres per day HC Awasthy | Director General of Police While UP Police has been in news for encounter killings and iron-hand approach, under Awasthy, it has shown its soft side with aplomb. Enforcing curfew-like lockdown in such a big state was not an easy job. But UP Police has risen to the task with a people-friendly approach, often seeing feeding stranded migrants and delivering medicines at doorstep||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/team-yogi-on-mission-corona-combat/articleshow/75108867.cms||Subhash Mishra
April 13, 2020||Nagpur||Asha worker on Covid-19 survey abused, heckled||Nagpur: A woman Asha worker on door-to-door Covid-19 survey for Nagpur Municipal Corporation (NMC) was allegedly heckled and abused on Sunday in Kamgar Nagar area.Shalu (name changed) was tasked with the survey in Kamgar Nagar area along with her team when the incident happened. She has given a written report about the incident at Kapil Nagar police station, however, cops have not registered any case in the matter yet.“The woman was doing the survey and asking questions when she went to this man’s house. The man started asking her why she was asking him questions, over which the incident happened. No offence can be registered in the matter, so we have taken the note of the incident. We have also directed Asha workers to inform us while going to survey in some specific areas. From now on we will send a policeman with them so no such incident will occur again,” said senior PI of Kapil Nagar police station Prabhakar Matte.“We will also send police vehicles with the Asha workers so that they will feel safe. The workers ask regular questions like the people in the house and about their health,” added Matte.Speaking to TOI, Shalu claimed that she was doing the survey in a lane in Kamgar Nagar while her other colleagues were in other lanes. “I went to a house and was asking the regular questions to a woman. She gave me all the information, but when I asked her mobile contact number, suddenly her husband came out and started yelling at her for sharing the contact number,” Shalu said.Shalu told the man that she was doing a survey, following which the man started abusing her. “The man was hurling abuses so I got scared and tried to contact my other colleagues who were nearby. He also kept asking me about my identity card, even after I showed it, he kept touching it. He also snatched my survey forms and threw it on the ground. I was crying when my colleagues came and I told them about the incident,” she added.The incident has raised fears among Asha workers who are doing the door-to-door survey.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/asha-worker-on-covid-19-survey-abused-heckled/articleshow/75112653.cms||Viraj Deshpande
April 13, 2020||Aurangabad||Bamu students demand waiver of examination fees||AURANGABAD: Amid the deepening socio-economic crisis due to the outbreak of Covid-19, students of Dr Babasaheb Ambedkar Marathwada University (Bamu), especially those from rural areas, have demanded waiver of the examination fees. The Students Federation of India (SFI) has submitted a memorandum to Bamu seeking a waiver of examination fees for students pursuing higher education at university departments and affiliated colleges. SFI activist Bhagwan Shrawane on Sunday said that some of the students have already paid their fees, while others are in the process of completing the necessary formality. “The university administration must declare waiver in examination fees. Those who have paid the fees must get the refund and remaining must be exempted from paying the same. While such waiver was announced in the past due to drought, the present situation is worse,” he said. Bamu and other state universities postponed examinations for undergraduate and postgraduate courses due to Covid-19.  “Several students pursuing higher education in Marathwada hail from rural areas and some of them do not have much financial support. A helping hand in the form of a fee-waiver will be a great gesture of the social commitment,” SFI leaders said. When contacted, a senior Bamu official requesting anonymity said, “The fee-waiver during the time of drought was announced by the government and the decision was implemented by the university as per the guidelines framed. As the current lockdown has been extended till the end of April, we have sufficient time to take stock of the situation,” he said Maharashtra Governor Bhagat Singh Koshyari and higher education minister Uday Samant recently held a review meeting with the heads of the state universities amid the outbreak of the pandemic. “Different academic and administrative issues were discussed during the meetings. However, the demand for fee-waiver is new and did not find any discussion,” authorities from the higher education department said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/bamu-students-demand-waiver-of-examination-fees/articleshow/75112662.cms||---
April 13, 2020||Lucknow||Uttar Pradesh government identifies 59 hotspots in 25 districts for Round 2||LUCKNOW: Days after sealing 133 coronavirus hotspots in 15 districts, the state government on Sunday said the second phase of the drive is underway which will cover another 59 hotspots in 25 districts. Additional chief secretary, home, Awanish Awasthi said at least 1.4 lakh houses, covering a population of around 9 lakh people, would be covered in the second phase. “The second phase is being conducted by district magistrates at their local level. The model envisages identification of Covid-19 positive patients, providing medical aid and sanitising the area,” he said, adding that the hotspot model of UP government was being appreciated across the country. “Nearly 80% of cases are being reported from hotspots alone. The government has decided to impose more stringent measures in 133 coronavirus hotspots identified in 15 districts which cover more than 1.57 lakh houses with a population of over 10 lakh,” Awasthi said. “Till date, 342 Covid-19 positive cases and nearly 3,000 potential cases have been reported from hotspots. People who attended Tablighi Jamaat event in Delhi and found infected with coronavirus are being followed up more strictly and quarantined,” he added. Awasthi said the government was also ensuring social distancing by providing ration through doorstep delivery to over 80% ration card holders. “This is apart from the distribution of over 7 lakh food packets by nearly 2,000 religious organisations and more than 4 lakh food packets by district authorities,” he added. “The government has also ensured distribution of wages amounting to over Rs 406 crore in over 30,000 industrial units in last few days. This is perhaps the biggest exercise undertaken by the government,” he said. The home department has lodged more than 15,300 FIRs and arrested at least 48,500 people for violating lockdown. They were later released on personal bonds. More than 2,100 vehicles were seized and over Rs 6 crore recovered as summon charge from them. “Action is being taken against hoarding and black marketing. At least 385 FIRs have been lodged against 484 people. Instances of fake news have also come to our notice and cyber cells are carrying out investigations. In last 14 hours, the government has come across 44 reports fake news,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/govt-identifies-59-hotspots-in-25-dists-for-round-2/articleshow/75113506.cms||---
April 13, 2020||Meerut||Help pours in for 300 labourers from Jharkhand left without food in Meerut||MEERUT: Two days after TOI reported about 300 labourers from Jharkhand facing starvation-like situation in Islamabad colony, a minority-populated area in Meerut, district administration and some politicians have started taking note of their suffering. And help is coming their way now. These labourers were facing severe food shortages with their ration stock running out and no money left. They were dependent on the food being provided by the district administration – which, too, used to come only once a day, with the ongoing 21-day nationwide lockdown. But now, they will receive two meals per day. Some politicians have pitched in with ration as well. On Sunday, Abul Hasan, a 45-year-old labourer staying here, said, “The administration has increased the frequency of meals from one to two, and many people have come forward to help us. A politician also came with enough ration for the next few days, and we received calls from locals to pitch in. However, since we have enough ration now, we have told others that we will contact them whenever we are short of food again.” TOI had earlier reported how the needy were shunned by the local police and asked to return home because of the lockdown when they tried to go to the nearest community kitchen. Meerut district magistrate Anil Dhingra said, “Once we came to know of the difficulties faced by locals, the area's magistrate increased the frequency of meals from one to two. This will help them during the lockdown.” Badar Mahmood, a Delhi-based lawyer and national legal convenor of Yuva Rashtriya Lok Dal, said, “I got 50 kg of rice, 50 kg flour and 10 litres of oil for the people here. I will also deliver 50 kg of potatoes. I have asked all the financially well-off people in the area to support the cause.” Another local, Ashish Chaudhary, who tried to assist the labourers, said, “The people there said that they have enough ration for now and if required I have asked them to contact me immediately.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/meerut/help-pours-in-for-300-labourers-fromjharkhand-left-without-food-in-meerut/articleshow/75113156.cms||Ishita Bhatia
April 13, 2020||Nagpur||Let us go home calls grow louder at quarantine centres||Nagpur: International flyers, Delhi returnees and local suspects put up at different quarantine centres were in a state of panic on Sunday morning after news broke about four persons at MLA Hostel and two at Lonara college testing positive.While those quarantined at MLA Hostel, Ravi Bhavan and Vanamati reiterated their demand of being allowed to go for home isolation at some centres, situation remained under control at Lonara as public health officials didn’t disclose the reason for taking away two persons in the afternoon to others.Dr Danish Iqbal, incharge from Public health department at Lonara college, said people were told that a retest was being done for the two. “It took a while for people to realize the two had tested positive through news coming on social media. But it didn’t create panic,” he said. Dr Iqbal said 114 samples were collected two days ago. “From these, the two tested positive,” he said.At MLA Hostel, the close contacts of Khamla positive patients created ruckus after the officials released those from Jaripatka containment zone.“Around 20 of us were released on Sunday. Some more from Jaripatka are there. Both groups from Jaripatka and Khamla have completed 14 days but only those testing negative are being released. People from Khamla were annoyed as their report didn’t come. Without a negative report, no one is allowed to go,” said one of the persons who came out. Cops deployed at the MLA Hostel took control of the situation and convinced people to go back inside.The Delhi returnees and Tablighi Jamaat members are quarantined in Wing II of MLA Hostel. The local close contacts are in Wing III.TOI has been reporting about the apprehensions of people who had returned to Nagpur over a month ago yet quarantined because of Delhi travel history. International flyers too were worried about their health when officials started putting up two persons in one room.At Vanamati, though all 81 samples came negative, people are worried since a cap seller having travelled to Delhi last month had tested positive. One of the two from Lonara who tested positive on Sunday is the cap seller’s close contact from Takia.At Ravi Bhavan, an elderly man and a cop were allegedly involved in a verbal duel after the former's son came to meet him. Some were also not allowed to return their used clothes and take fresh ones. They have also not been informed about their test results since April 2.“Suddenly, the rules have changed. Relatives were not allowed to give clothes or eatables. We are here since April 2. Each day there is a new rule. The health officials have stopped talking to us. It appears a big fraud is being played on us,” said a public sector official. Another person said, “We have decide to pack our bags and vacate the premises on April 15 when we complete 14 days.”Meanwhile, the canteen operator at Ravi Bhavan and MLA Hostel announced an insurance cover of Rs5 lakh for each of his workers engaged in house keeping and catering services. However, they too are scared as they are working without PPE kits.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/let-us-go-home-calls-grow-louder-at-quarantine-centres/articleshow/75112666.cms||Sarfaraz Ahmed
April 13, 2020||Aurangabad||Railways helpline responds to over 2 lakh calls||AURANGABAD: The helpline facilities set up by Indian Railways have responded to around 2,05,000 queries in the first two weeks of lockdown, as per an official release. “In order to assist railway passengers and resolve issues in freight operations, Indian Railways has increased the helpline facilities after the declaration of the lockdown. Since its inception, the helpline facilities have become a huge management success. Indian Railways personnel handled over 90% of the two lakh queries received through interaction over the phone,” chief public relations officer of South Central Railway, Ch Rakesh said. He said the National Rail Madad Helpline 139 continues to deliver and the Geo-Fenced Distributed Helpline 138 reaches out to the public in local languages. “Rail Madad Helpline 139 answered over 1,40,000 queries on a one-on-one basis, in addition to these queries answered by its interactive voice response system (IVRS) facility. The queries are mostly for the commencement of train services and the relaxed refund rules,” Rakesh said. He added, “The calls received on helpline 138 are geo-fenced, which means the calls are received by the nearest Railway Divisional Control Office manned 24X7 by railway personnel who are well-versed in local language and familiar with local issues.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/railways-helpline-responds-to-over-2l-calls/articleshow/75112681.cms||---
April 13, 2020||Nagpur||Admin makes J’khand body’s 1st b’day memorable at Teosa||Amravati: Stuck hundreds of kilometres away from home in Teosa due to lockdown and nationwide curfew following outbreak of novel coronavirus pandemic, a Jharkhand-based family was pleasantly surprised on Sunday when the administration arranged things to make the first birthday of their son, Saurav, memorable.Karan Yadav and his family could not return home following the lockdown. Stuck up at Teosa, the administration put them up at a shelter home after examining their health at rural hospital. During their stay there, the family became familiar with the staff working at the shelter home. It was through one such affectionate dialogue with the members of the family that municipal council CEO Pallavi Sote came to know that the first birthday of the couple’s son falls on April 12.She decided to celebrate Saurav’s birthday at the shelter home itself.As all sweetmarts in the town were shut, tehsildar Vaibhav Fartode roped in a confectioner and got a cake prepared for the birthday boy at home. A birthday candle came from another home.With all preparations in place, the cake was cut in the presence of shelter home staff, parents of the kid and a few residents, not forgetting to maintain social distance.“We very much wanted to celebrate the first birthday of Saurabh in a big way. The administration took the initiative, arranged all things for us and made the birthday memorable,” said Karan.Sote, Fartode and others were witness to the event bringing smiles to all amid the gloom because of the Covid-19 outbreak.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/admin-makes-jkhand-bodys-1st-bday-memorable-at-teosa/articleshow/75112685.cms||---
April 13, 2020||Nagpur||With corona cases rising, citizens support lockdown extension||Nagpur: Despite the difficulties, most citizens welcome the extension of lockdown upto April 30 announced by Maharashtra government. The extension was announced by chief minister Uddhav Thackeray on Saturday. TOI spoke to a cross section of citizens to find out their response. Writer Waqil Nazeeb believes the spread of coronavirus is increasing in the city rapidly, hence lockdown is the best solution, “The issue is getting serious and lockdown will make sure remain strictly grounded inside their homes and are safeguarded from the threat of the virus,” he said. Mobile repair shops, electronics shops, and other small services should be kept open for at least four hours and people must follow social-distancing while visiting these places, as these shop owners and labourers have no source of income and the situation is grim for them, Nazeeb said. Citizens said extending the lockdown was the need of the hour. They also said spreading of hate messages, forwards etc was against the seriousness of the situation and diverting many people’s mind towards communal hatred. “In this time of crisis, humanity has become one. The virus does not discriminate while infecting the person. If government wants to take stricter measures, we will stand with them. We have an opportunity to go out and buy grocery and essential commodities. So we should not violate the rules,” said Aashish Maske, construction consultant. Komal Gorle Kashikar, a doctor, stands with the lockdown and urges people not to go out if they want to remain healthy and happy. “I surely wanted the lockdown extended, it was necessary. I think people must act smartly about stocking groceries and essential stuff. Keeping children and others engaged in creative activities is always good. It’s all about living,” she said. Shubhangi Bhadbhade, a writer, said, “Lockdown will assure people do not go out and are safe from any contamination. It is very sad that a lot of major events and occasions are getting cancelled because of this, but nothing is more important than life. Hence we all must stand with the decision of the PM and support the decision cautiously,’’ she said. Akshata Nakshine, a law student, said it was an alarming situation for the country. It was time for all to stand together and follow the lockdown. Government was doing enough to supply essential goods, food and safety. “We must stay inside for those doctors and welfare of everyone,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/with-corona-cases-rising-citizens-support-lockdown-extension/articleshow/75113158.cms||Shreya Tinkhede
April 13, 2020||Business||Liquor bodies to govt: States should permit home delivery||Bengaluru: The states should allow home delivery of alcohol at a time when liquor shops and production facilities are shut, causing huge loss in excise revenue, the Confederation of Indian Alcoholic Beverage Companies (CIABC) said in a letter to commerce minister Piyush Goyal, health minister Harsh Vardhan and chief ministers of all states. CIABC and ISWAI (International Spirits and Wines Association of India) have also asked the government to allow opening of retail shops outside the identified Covid-19 hotspots in a phased manner for a longer time to help spread out the rush of customers. The CIABC is the apex body of the Indian alcobev makers and the ISWAI consists of foreign players such as Diageo, Pernod Ricard and Beam Suntory. The CIABC suggested that shops should be asked to enroll for home delivery through online applications and government may charge a fee in an addition to license. “Assuming that social distancing will be new normal going forward, government may consider institutionalising home delivery as a separate channel administered online. It is our view that the government may consider setting up its own portal for facilitating home deliveries and/or permit food delivery aggregators to do so,” Vinod Giri, director general of CIABC, wrote in the letter. Besides this, the liquor body also suggests that each shop should be given 3-4 passes for home delivery personnel and government may limit the amount delivered or frequency. Customers can place an order online or over phone along with proof of identity for age verification. “Employment has to come back at a certain stage as the livelihood of people is at stake,” Shobhan Roy, director general of All India Brewers Association (AIBA) told TOI. He added that the industry contributes close to $20 billion in excise revenue and has close to a million workers.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/liquor-bodies-to-govt-states-should-permit-home-delivery/articleshow/75113166.cms||---
April 13, 2020||Aurangabad||In Latur, those taking photos during charity to face action||AURANGABAD: The Latur district administration on Sunday issued an order against taking photographs while doing charity work during the lockdown. Stating that clicking photos during charity work and circulating them through social media humiliate needy and poor people, Latur collector G Shrikant said such acts also jeopardise the social distancing norms put in place to control the pandemic. “Several people have come forward to extend a helping hand to the poor and needy people during the lockdown. However, some of those engaged in charity are taking photographs and videos while distributing grain, food, clothes and other essentials and posting them on social media. The beneficiaries could get offended or hurt due to such unwanted publicity. Moreover, we have found that social distancing norms often go for a toss during clicking photos and videos,” he said. Those found violating this order will face action under section 188 (disobedience to order duly promulgated by public servant) of the Indian Penal Code among other legal provisions. Social activist Vishnu Dhobale lauded the initiatives. “The district administration has been very thoughtful. Some people tend to gain publicity or political mileage while posing as donors during the time of crisis. But they hurt the poor and needy beneficiaries by revealing their photos,” he said. Earlier, in another key initiative, the Latur district administration had asked children in every home to act as ‘Anti-Corna Police’ (ACP). “The police are doing their best to keep people confined to their homes. The goal can be further achieved if children are involved. The kids must appeal to the elders not to step out of the house unless it is essential till the lockdown is over,” the district administration had said. Latur collector had requested for photos and videos of children posing as ‘ACPs’ at their homes on social media with the hashtag ‘AntiCoronaPolice. As per official data, Latur district has reported only positive patients of Covid-19 who were travelling to their home in South India. All of them are currently receiving medical aid at state-run health facilities. Three of these patients tested negative during treatment.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/in-latur-those-taking-photos-during-charity-to-face-action/articleshow/75112692.cms||---
April 13, 2020||Meerut||Man dies at Hapur government hospital due to suspected Covid-19, sample sent for test||MEERUT: A 55-year-old man, quarantined at a government hospital in UP’s Hapur along with his wife and two daughters, died on Sunday, with doctors saying that he was suffering from respiratory ailment. No test was conducted on the quarantined family to know if they were carrying the Covid-19 infection. It was only after the death of the man that the hospital authorities took the samples and sent it for testing. “We have sent his sample to Meerut lab to confirm whether he was Covid-19 positive or not. He was suffering from respiratory issues,” said Aditi Singh, Hapur’s district magistrate (DM). “Autopsy will be performed if his report is negative. His wife and two daughters are also kept in quarantine facility at same medical college,” DM Singh added. The patient was a resident of Hapur’s Dholana village which has been branded as one of the hotspots for novel coronavirus infection. The disease spread there from a man who returned after attending Tablighi Jamaat at Delhi’s Nizamuddin. Hapur has reported 41 novel coronavirus positive cases so far. More than 8,000 people are under quarantine while 576 are under isolation.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/meerut/man-dies-at-hapur-govt-hospital-due-to-suspected-covid-19-sample-sent-for-test/articleshow/75113157.cms||Piyush Rai
April 13, 2020||Nagpur||Testing times for 2 minor granddaughters of deceased||Nagpur: Samples of a sixth-month-old girl and her six-year-old cousin, both granddaughters of city’s first Covid-19 victim, were collected again on Sunday for a retest though they had tested negative the first time. Both are currently with their parents who have tested positive and are in isolation ward of Government Medical College and Hospital (GMCH).On April 12, TOI reported about the six-year-old who is the child of the victim’s daughter. On Sunday, the plight of sixth-month-old also came to fore. The infant is daughter of the 68-year-old deceased’s son. Her father and mother tested positive last week along with four others among the close contacts of the Satranjipura-based victim.The six-year-old’s mother and two siblings had tested positive and shifted to another ward with her uncle and aunt last week itself. The girl was with her father Shahid Khan (name changed) while seven other relatives too were awaiting results at the GMCH isolation ward.On Sunday, Khan’s worst nightmare came true when he tested positive. He was among the first lot of high risk suspects to be isolated at GMCH last Monday. While results of others came soon, Khan’s test result remained pending for unexplained reasons.Khan’s throat swab samples were sent to Mayo hospital lab along with others, as per doctors. Mayo deputy superintendent Sagar Pande had told TOI that as per his records the suspect's sample marked no. 25 were at GMCH on April 7. On Saturday, GMCH declared 31 samples negative and one inconclusive.Khan's sample was collected by Mayo Hospital on April 6, as per GMCH officials.GMCH doctors said the six-year-old would be handed over to a social worker. They refused to comment on the fate of her six-month-old cousin.A similar complex situation had risen in Akola last Thursday. A three-and-half-month old boy tested positive along with his grandmother, father and 5-year-old elder brother. The infant’s mother is negative. The Akola GMCH, having limited space, has not exactly separated the infant and his mother as of now. The suspects and positive patients there have been separated by a partition, as per officials. “The mother only feeds and then returns to the other side of the isolation ward to limit her contact. Rest of the time the infant is with the grandmother and father,” officials said.But, Khan and his brother-in-law are worried what would happen to the two minors of their family. Most of the immediate family members have already tested positive while others are quarantined and yet to be tested. These minors too have to be placed under quarantine for 14 days.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/testing-times-for-2-minor-granddaughters-of-deceased/articleshow/75112699.cms||Sarfaraz Ahmed
April 13, 2020||Nashik||Farmers form group for safe delivery of vegetables||NASHIK: Farmers have come to form a group called Baliraja till Grahakraja to ensure the safe delivery of vegetables to Nashik city. The farmers have the support of non-governmental organisations (NGOs), including the and Draksha Vidnyan Mandal, to come up with a plan to procure and distribute vegetables to people who are locked up in their homes in containment areas and even in other parts of the city. Orders can be sent to the group on 8275545499. “The aim is to bring the farmers and the consumers together and ensure the vegetables are priced rationally. There is no profiteering in the system,” Vishal Bankar, one of the key persons in the group, said. Grape producers have tied up with an NGO to take the permissions from the Nashik Municipal Corporation, agriculture department and the city police to get a system in place for a safe and contactless transportation process. “As far as containment areas are concerned, we get the orders from the chairman of the society on the social media group which has police and NMC personnel as members as well. We pack things, sanitise the vehicle and goods, and ensure our delivery persons – also equipped with protection gear – deliver the goods. The chairman then distributes the same to the members while we get the payment online,” Bankar added. The prices of the vegetables ordered vary from day to day, the farmers said adding that the same would be told clearly at the time of placing order. The delivery plan is simple. When the order comes from bulk customers in containment areas, they are delivered in standard combo packs ensuring they can help a family of four for four days. “When the calls come from other areas, we ask the chairman of the society to ensure the people are standing in a queue following proper social distancing rules. They can buy assorted vegetables, but we insist online payment,” Bankar added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/farmers-form-group-for-safe-delivery-of-vegetables/articleshow/75113686.cms||Abhilash Botekar
April 13, 2020||Bareilly||All 51 Covid-19 suspects in Kheri, including patient who died during treatment, test negative||Bareilly: The Kheri administration took a collective sigh of relief after results of all 51 Covid-19 suspects in the district, including the man who died during treatment at the isolation ward of district hospital, who were tested on Sunday, returned negative. Four people had earlier tested positive in the district, forcing the administration to seal off Dhaurahra town to contain the spread of the infection. On Saturday, family members of a Sikh farmer had refused to accept his body after the farmer died in the Covid-19 isolation ward of district hospital. Health department had sent his sample for Covid-19 tests along with that of his wife, who was regularly in touch with him. On Sunday, district administration informed his family that he had tested negative for Covid-19, so they could take the body without fear once autopsy was conducted. They were yet to arrive to accept the body at the time of this report going to press. Health department was eagerly awaiting the results of samples of 20 people from Dhaurahra, who had come in contact with three Tablighi Jamaat members who had tested positive earlier. Fortunately, all of them were found negative. The entire Dhaurahra town is currently sealed by district administration, and screening of nearly 20,000 residents is being done by health teams. CMO Dr Manoj Agarwal said, “Both the patient who died in the isolation ward on Saturday and his wife have tested negative. His family is expected to accept the body today after autopsy. All 51 other suspects have also tested negative.” SDM Sunandu Sudhakaran told TOI, “We have kept 20 people who had come in contact with Jamaat attendees at quarantine centres. All have tested negative. Also, nearly 2,300 migrant labourers, who were kept on quarantine in shelter homes, have been given certificates after medical examination and sent to their villages. They have been advised to remain in quarantine for another 14 days inside their houses.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/all-51-covid-19-suspects-in-kheri-including-patient-who-died-during-treatment-test-negative/articleshow/75112712.cms||Kanwardeep Singh
April 13, 2020||Nagpur||Akola SP’s abusive conversation goes viral||Nagpur: A day after a Covid-19 positive patient committed suicide at GMCH Akola, another controversy was triggered after three alleged audio clips of Akola SP Amogh Gaonkar went viral, where he can be heard repeatedly abusing senior police inspector of City Kotwali police station. It’s learnt police inspector Suresh Naiknaware of City Kotwali police station was transferred to Buldhana on request after he had written a letter to the IG on Saturday regarding alleged mental harassment by Gaonkar. The letter of the Senior PI written to the IG, along with his transfer order, has also gone viral on social media. The incident has led to fresh round of embarrassment for Akola police after suicide of a Covid-19 positive patient. Controversy is nothing new for Gaonkar. Home minister Anil Deshmukh had also announced the transfer of Gaonkar after a missing persons complaint had reached the high court due to apathy of policemen earlier this year. The latest controversy kicked off after PI Naiknaware was pulled up by Gaonkar over the manner of disposal of a dead body in the mortuary. Naiknaware’s letter, a copy of which is in possession of TOI, mentioned the abusive language in which Gaonkar had berated him. Along with the letter, Naiknaware had also sent three audio clips to IG Amravati range, requesting for a transfer as Gaonkar’s harassment was aggravating his ailments and also driving him to commit suicide. TOI’s repeated attempts to contact Gaonkar via calls and messages did not elicit any response.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/akola-sps-abusive-conversation-goes-viral/articleshow/75113162.cms||Viraj Deshpande
April 13, 2020||Coimbatore||With 22 new cases, tally touches 119 in Coimbatore||COIMBATORE: With 22 new cases on Sunday, the district became the first in the Western region to cross 100 positive cases for Covid-19. The total count for city on Sunday was 119 cases. In neighbouring Tirupur, 35 people tested positive, taking the total count to 60. Officials said most of the new cases, which include seven children, are contacts of the Tablighi Jamaat delegation. Among the new cases in Coimbatore are family members of Tablighi Jamaat attendees who tested positive a fortnight ago, and four people who doctors suspect got infected by a man linked to the delegation. While 17 people are from the Coimbatore corporation limits, four are from Pollachi and one is from Kavundampalayam. The list of positive patients also includes a two-year-old girl from Syrian Church Road and a four-year-old girl from Ukkadam. The new cases within city limits are spread across R S Puram, Ukkadam and Kuniyamuthur. “None of the 22 cases are symptomatic, but are being isolated because they have tested positive,” said Dr G Ramesh Kumar, deputy director of public health. While some have been moved to PSG Hospital as per their preference, the rest have been admitted at the ESI hospital, he said. The health department said most among the 22 patients were from the same containment zones as the earlier cases. “So new containment measures will not be needed for them. However, we are interacting with the new patients just to cross check if they have met anyone after March 24,” said a health department official. In Tirupur, officials used contact-tracing of its earlier 25 cases to good effect and managed to find 35 new cases on Sunday. Among the 35 new cases in the district are seven children, including a one-year-old boy, two three-year-old girls and a five-year-old girl. “Thirty-four of the 35 people who tested positive were family members of the earlier cases... all of them have been shifted to ESI Hospital for isolation. None of the 35 new cases have shown symptoms so far,” said Tirupur collector, K Vijaykarthikeyan.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/with-22-new-cases-tally-touches-119/articleshow/75113167.cms||---
April 13, 2020||Bareilly||Amaria tehsil is Pilibhit’s first corona hot spot||Pilibhit: Nineteen days after a mother-son duo tested positive for Covid-19, Amaria tehsil headquarters was declared as Pilibhit’s first hot spot. It was sealed on Saturday to curb novel coronavirus from spreading. The step was taken after the duo tested negative recently. The two positive cases were detected in Amaria on March 22. Of the two, the 73-year-old woman eventually tested negative twice and was discharged from hospital. Her 33-year-old son also tested negative on April 9 after a 19-day stay in an isolation ward at the district hospital. The district administration has now constituted a three- member team to monitor and enforce strict adherence to lockdown norms. Officials have been deployed to monitor compliance with lockdown orders 24x7 in three eight- hour shifts. All shops, including those selling fruits, vegetables and groceries, are to remain closed. Even PDS shops have been told to close down. The officials said supply of all essential items will be delivered at the doorstep. However, medical shops have been exempted from the closure. “The Bareilly-Hardwar national highway 74 that passes through Amaria has also been sealed but sugarcane-laden vehicles will be allowed to move towards respective sugar mills,” said Saurabh Dube, SDM of Amaria circle. However, Dube was not sure whether farmers will be allowed to go out to harvest their wheat crop. Meanwhile, additional chief medical officer, Dr CM Chaturvedi, said the health department had so far collected samples of 65 suspected patients of which 12 reports were awaited from Lucknow. The remaining 53 were found to be negative. This included the mother-son duo reports.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/amaria-tehsil-is-pilibhits-first-corona-hot-spot/articleshow/75112715.cms||---
April 13, 2020||Nagpur||Surge in samples delayed results; testing to be faster now||Nagpur: People, especially those in quarantine facilities, are eager to know results of Covid-19 tests. Nagpur now has three laboratories to test samples. Still, some results are coming after several days. Authorities explained this was because priority is given to samples of high risk contacts and close contacts of positive patients and deceased. “Samples of suspect cases already in institutional quarantine can wait as they cannot spread the virus out in community,” said an official from one of the labs in city. Moreover, some samples test inconclusive or are not collected properly. They need to be re-tested. All these technical issues can delay the results.Nagpur now has four labs that carry out Covid-19 tests and three of them functioning at their full capacity. “A standard kit that we get can conduct 50 tests. One sample has to be tested on eight controls (parameters). For this, every sample needs to undergo two tests. If tested positive or inconclusive, we have to conduct another confirmatory test,” said Dr Apurva Pavde, dean of GMCH Akola. This way, one sample needs two to four tests. It means if a laboratory is capable of conducting 200 tests, it can test 80 to 100 samples in one batch.Divisional commissioner Sanjeev Kumar had also told TOI earlier that asymptomatic suspects in institutional quarantine can be tested later, after fifth day of their admission as per the guidelines. However, after taking samples, the results are expected to come within 12 hours. “This will happen now as Nagpur has more labs. Results will come on day-to-day basis from now onwards,” said an official from GMCH.Also, a high number of samples reached city labs from all parts of Vidarbha in the last two weeks, especially after district collectors were asked to trace the individuals having Delhi travel history. This was the same period when containment drives also began in almost all districts in Vidarbha. In addition to it, the only big testing facility in Mayo Hospital (IGGMCH) developed a snag and samples had to be shifted to AIIMS lab and some to National Institute of Virology (NIV) Pune. All this delayed samples in the last two weeks. Lab data IGGMCH lab | Started on March 4: tested 1254 samples in 40 daysAIIMS Lab | Started on April 3: tested 580 samples in eight days GMCH Lab | Started on April 9: Tested 180 samples in 4 daysGMCH Akola lab | Started on April 12: tested 25 samples on Day 1||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/surge-in-samples-delayed-results-testing-to-be-faster-now/articleshow/75112721.cms||Chaitanya Deshpande
April 13, 2020||Delhi||Delhi: Sealed areas marked red and orange, mass sanitisation drive starts today||NEW DELHI: Delhi government has decided to launch a massive sanitisation drive from Monday to disinfect the containment zones and their surrounding areas. Chief minister Arvind Kejriwal in a digital press conference on Sunday said that the containment areas have been categorised as red and orange (high-risk). The total number of containment zones touched 43 on Sunday with Kejriwal stating that their numbers could rise in the next couple of days. Kejriwal said he was concerned about the increasing number of novel coronavirus cases and assured that steps were being taken to contain its spread. “We have declared Covid-19 containment zones as red and orange (high-risk). We have identified more such zones. Areas where more positive cases are found will be declared as containment zones,” he added. The CM said that Delhi government’s Operation Shield — sealing, home quarantine, isolation and tracking, essential supply, local sanitisation and door-to-door checking — had proved successful in Dilshad Garden, which was a hotspot area until now. “No new case has been reported in Dilshad Garden in the last 10 days due to Operation Shield. It will be implemented in all areas that have been declared containment zones. I know people will face difficulties, but it is necessary to save their lives,” Kejriwal said. To sanitise the areas, about 60 vehicles will be pressed into service from Monday. Apart from 50 small machines owned by Delhi Jal Board, 10 technologically-advanced Japanese machines, which had been donated, will be used for the purpose. On the recent announcement of giving Rs 5,000 to every autorickshaw, gramin sewa and taxi driver in the wake of the lockdown, the CM said that registration would begin from Monday. Such drivers can submit their bank account details on the transport department’s website. “An applicant who has a valid driving licence and public service vehicle badge will be able to avail the benefit under the scheme,” Kejriwal said. He added that the government was giving free ration to 72 lakh public distribution system beneficiaries and around 23 lakh people who don’t have ration cards.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/sealed-areas-marked-red-orange-mass-sanitisation-drive-starts-today/articleshow/75113515.cms||---
April 13, 2020||Dehradun||Child rights body to slap notices to schools that aren’t conducting online classes||DEHRADUN: The State Commission for Protection of Child Rights (SCPCR) has decided to serve notice to the education department and all those schools which aren’t yet providing its students with the facility of online classes or e-learning. The move comes after parents of some school students approached the commission stating that a gap in school learning due to the lockdown may lead to poor academic performance. Several people have also been complaining that despite most of the schools launching online classes, some are yet to follow suit. A complaint has also been lodged with the SCPCR by a city resident in this regard. The complaint (a copy of which is with TOI) reads, “If schools can press children to make fee payment digitally, then they should also ensure teaching students digitally. It is the moral duty of school authorities.” “Many parents are complaining to us that some schools haven’t yet streamlined the facility of online education and consequently, their kids are missing on studies. A Dehradun-based couple has registered a complaint with us against a private school. We are also concerned about the children whose guardians are not educated enough to report their concerns to us,” said Usha Negi, chairperson of Uttarakhand SCPCR. Lack of infrastructure for digital education in schools, especially those in remote areas of the state, has also become a cause of worry for the panel. “After the complaint, the panel has decided to serve notice to all such schools which haven’t yet launched online classes. We will also urge the education department to ensure facilities for digital education across all schools — both government and private,” added Negi. TOI has learnt that the complaint of the couple was also sent to the district education officer of Dehradun and some action has been taken by the authorities of the concerned private school. “We got to know that the particular school has sent text messages to the guardians of its students stating that they will be launching online classes and e-learning facility soon,” added Negi.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/child-rights-body-to-slap-notices-to-schools-that-arent-conducting-online-classes/articleshow/75112713.cms||Shivani Azad
April 13, 2020||Nashik||18 fresh cases in Malegaon||NASHIK: As many as 18 people have tested positive for Covid-19 in Malegaon, taking the total number of active cases in the textile town to 27. As on April 10, the number of Covid-19 cases in Malegaon was 10 including one death. With the sudden surge in the number of active cases, the Nashik district administration has started pulling the health staff deployed in the rural areas and sending them to Malegaon. The health staff will be assisting in the process of screening and testing the close contacts of the new positive patients. District collector Suraj Mandhare said, “The throat swab sample reports of the 18 new patients confirmed that they have contracted the infection. All the 18 patients were among the close relatives of the people who had already tested positive. All of them have been admitted in the isolation ward of the sub-district hospital in Malegaon.” Mandhare said that the contact tracing of all the new positive patients was already underway. 400 health workers have already been pressed into service. A requisition has been placed for 200 additional staff. Talking about the number of doctors needed, Mandhare said that the services of the private doctors were being requisitioned from Monday. The orders to the effect would be issued on Monday. Local officials pointed out that there has been a shortage of personal protective equipment (PPE), N-95 masks and triple layer masks required for treating positive patients. The district collector said that they have sufficient stocks for now and that the stocks would be replenished from Nashik city as and when required. Assistant collector Pankaj Ashia has now been appointed as the incident commander exclusively at Malegaon. “The sub-divisional officer of Kalwan, an IAS officer of the rank of chief executive officer, has now been made the incident commander under the disaster management plan,”said Mandhare. The total number of active cases in Nashik district has now jumped to 32. It may also be noted that Dhule district registered two deaths, one of who was from Malegaon.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/18-fresh-cases-in-malegaon/articleshow/75113688.cms||Abhilash Botekar
April 13, 2020||Meerut||Five test positive in Meerut, seven in Saharanpur||MEERUT: At least 12 patients tested positive for novel coronavirus at the microbiology laboratory in LLRM Medical College on Sunday. Out of the total 12 cases, five tested positive in Meerut and seven in Saharanpur. The fresh cases took the district tally for Meerut to 56 and Saharanpur to 27. “Out of the five cases in Meerut, three are from sector 13, Shastri Nagar and one each from Kharkhauda and Rohta. While two of them are contacts of Jamaatis, three others are contacts of the Bulandshahr man, who was the first patient in the district and had travelled from Amravati to Meerut,” said Meerut chief medical officer Raj Kumar. The 50-year-old had travelled from Amravati to Meerut in two trains, stayed in three Meerut localities, attended a wedding and even offered prayers at two city mosques before testing positive. With three of his contacts now testing positive, the total number of people infected by him has gone to 21. The man who had no foreign tarvel history had stayed in three Meerut localties -- Shastrinagar, Humayun Nagar and Sohrab Gate area -- for two days each. Three kilometre radius of these areas have been sealed and were disinfected. As many as 382 teams reached a population of 2,65,189, tested hundreds of people and put thousands under home quarantine to break the chain of contacts. Meanwhile, Saharanpur CMO Dr BS Sodhi said, “Seven new cases surfaced in Saharanpur on Saturday night. The reports were given on Sunday. They belong to Maharashtra, West Bengal and Assam. They are Jamaatis and were traced to Deoband, Gangoh and Saharanpur city.” With this, the total tally of Saharanpur reached 27 on Sunday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/meerut/five-test-positive-in-meerut-seven-in-saharanpur/articleshow/75113165.cms||Ishita Bhatia
April 13, 2020||Lucknow||Uttar Pradesh: Pay tributes to Ambedkar at home, says BSP chief Mayawati||LUCKNOW: BSP chief Mayawati on Sunday exhorted her followers to celebrate the birth anniversary of Dalit icon Babasaheb Bhimrao Ambedkar, due on April 14, in their homes in the wake of novel coronavirus (Covid-19) pandemic. Every year, a large number of BSP supporters turn up at the Ambedkar memorials here and in Noida to pay tributes to the Dalit icon. However, this year Mayawati has urged her followers to show restraint and take precautionary measures to check spread of novel coronavirus infection. Mayawati’s statement comes a day after she supported Centre’s possible move to extend the lockdown by two weeks. Mayawati said that father of Indian Constitution has been the key driving force for hundreds and thousands of his followers. She said that even in the current crisis times atrocities are being committed on Ambedkar’s followers. The party would take steps to address their problems, the BSP chief added. Meanwhile, additional chief secretary, home, Awanish Awasthi said that people need to follow restrictions while celebrating Ambedkar Jayanti. UP BJP chief Swtantra Dev Singh too asked the party functionaries to celebrate Ambedkar Jayanti while staying back at home. He said that the party workers may opt to reach out to at least two Dalit dominated villages and provide food and face mask on the occasion.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/maya-pay-tributes-to-ambedkar-at-home/articleshow/75113512.cms||---
April 13, 2020||Mysuru||Door-to-door survey to detect influenza like illness in Mysuru||MYSURU: The rising number of Covid-19 cases across Mysuru has compelled the district health department to undertake an onerous exercise: A house-to-house survey of all households in Mysuru to check if any of the residents are suffering from influenza like illness (ILI). The survey kicked off a few days in the containment and buffer zones in Mysuru, with the health department personnel inquiring residents about the condition of their health. The health department personnel are documenting the name, age and address of those complaining of breathing troubles. While the containment area is circumscribed to within a three-kilometre radius of the residence of the infected patient, the buffer zone encompasses an area that is within a five-kilometre radius of the epicentre. Mysuru district health education officer (DHEO) Prakash said told TOI that each team comprised two or three personnel, who visited homes and inquired if residents were displaying symptoms of Covid-19. “The survey is currently being conducted in areas where positive cases have been reported. The staff conducting the survey on the ground will submit all the data, which will be compiled, and based on the information, we will decide on the course of action to be taken as far as offering treatment to those having ILI is concerned,” he added. The district health department is setting up Fever Treatment Depots at primary health centres where those being deployed on survey are being trained by experts. “As of now, we are setting up around 10 depots. The staff will collect the history of the patient who visits the depot and collect their swab samples in case they display any symptoms of Covid-19,” Prakash said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mysuru/door-to-door-survey-to-detect-influenza-like-illness/articleshow/75111778.cms||Lakshmikantha BK
April 13, 2020||Business||Flipkart, Tata join hands to deliver items||Bengaluru: Flipkart and Tata Consumer Products (TCPL) have tied up to provide access to essential food and beverage products to consumers. TCPL’s distributors will list as marketplace sellers on the Flipkart platform and customers can buy different combo packs of essential items. Flipkart’s marketplace supply chain will fulfill the orders by picking up these essentials from TCPL distributors and deliver them to customers using its extensive network of delivery executives. The partnership is already operational in Bengaluru, and the firms plan to expand it in Mumbai and Delhi in the coming week and tier-2 towns in future.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/flipkart-tata-join-hands-to-deliver-items/articleshow/75113174.cms||---
April 13, 2020||Coimbatore||Coimbatore: Cops to get tough with motorists||COIMBATORE: Police have tightened vehicle checks at 33 points in the city to curb movement of people during the lockdown. The government’s instruction to tighten vehicle checks comes after the city recorded the second highest number of Covid-19 cases in the state, after Chennai. On Sunday, in many places across the city, motorists had to wait for more than 30 minutes at check points in Nanjundapuram road, Sundarapuram, Gandhi Park, Ukkadam, Gandhipuram and a few other areas and were asked to explain the reason for being out. There is, however, no bar on the movement of doctors, ambulances, patients and mediapersons. “We repeatedly told people who are deliberately coming out during the lockdown that they should buy essential commodities atleast for three to four days. But many people did not bother about prohibitory orders. So are booking cases against people who are loitering and are seizing their vehicles too,” said Sumit Sharan, police commissioner of Police, Coimbatore city. Police have been instructed to allow people to come out only for genuine reasons. The district administration also had a word of advice for several NGOs and voluntary organisations who have been distributing food to sanitation workers, homeless people and guest workers across the city. Officials said NGOs or social activists should not distribute food by themselves to control the spread of Covid-19. “They can provide relief materials to the concerned tahsildars. Coimbatore district has a lot of positive cases of Covid-19, and the district administration has decided that supply of food to guest workers and others should be done by our official teams only. Police would stop unwanted movement of public from Monday morning,” said district collector K Rajamani.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/cops-to-get-tough-with-motorists/articleshow/75113171.cms||---
April 13, 2020||Nagpur||Covid-19 lab starts at Akola GMCH, no positive cases on opening day||Nagpur: The much awaited Covid-19 sample testing facility began at the Government Medical College and Hospital (GMCH) Akola on Sunday. Total 25 samples were tested on the first day and all of them were negative. “This lab will now test all samples coming from Akola, Washim and Buldhana districts. We are working round the clock and conduct tests in three batches a day. We can test 42 samples per batch,” said Dr Apurva Pavde, dean of GMCH Akola. The new lab facility will reduce load on AIIMS lab at Nagpur. Now, AIIMS will deal with samples coming from Amravati and Yavatmal only. On Sunday, Nagpur recorded 17 confirmed positive cases of Covid-19, which is a record for any city in Vidarbha. The region had recorded 22 new cases on March 9, which is still a record. Total Covid-19 cases in Vidarbha are now 92, including three deaths. Total 11 patients out of these 92 have recovered and discharged. Four others will be discharged over the next week. An 80-year-old man, a patient of cough and breathing trouble from Yavatmal, died in the ICU of local GMCH on Sunday. Even if he was not a suspect of Covid-19, district administration decided to test his swab for tests. The samples will be tested in Nagpur on Monday. As Yavatmal is under the grip of Covid-19 with eight confirmed positive cases, the containment drive is under way in full swing here. Isolation wards in Yavatmal GMCH have 182 cases as on Sunday. Forty of them have tested negative. There are 91 persons in home quarantine and 93 in institutional quarantine at Yavatmal. Some 33,000 residents in sealed areas of Jafar Nagar, Memon Society and Indira Nagar are also restricted in their home quarantine. On Monday, 45 samples from Amravati, seven from Chandrapur, and more than 80 samples from Yavatmal will be tested at Nagpur.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/covid-19-lab-starts-at-akola-gmch-no-positive-cases-on-opening-day/articleshow/75113169.cms||Chaitanya Deshpande
April 13, 2020||Coimbatore||Disinfectant tunnels closed in Tirupur and Coimbatore||COIMBATORE: In the wake of health experts raising concerns about the efficacy of disinfectant tunnels, all such structures across Tirupur and Coimbatore have been closed. Tirupur, where the first disinfectant tunnel came up in the state, shut its facility on Saturday, while a few more tunnels in Coimbatore were closed on Sunday. Health officials said they have told people visiting markets to wash their hands, wear masks and maintain physical distance. Last week, health experts expressed concern about the efficacy and safety aspects of the disinfectant tunnels during a meeting with chief minister Edappadi K Palaniswami. They pointed out that chemicals like sodium hypochlorite used in these tunnels have no effect on the coronavirus if used in low quantity, and are harmful if used in higher portions. Given the low quantity of chemicals used in these tunnels, they have no anti-viral effect and give a false sense of safety to the public, health experts had warned.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/disinfectant-tunnels-closed/articleshow/75113173.cms||---
April 13, 2020||Vijayawada||Andhra Pradesh: With gambling dens closed, addicts turn to online rummy||VIJAYAWADA: With clubs, guest houses and other popular hangout places shut down temporarily in the wake of Covid-19 outbreak, a majority of the gamblers have gone online to gamble. Rummy, a card game, has emerged as the favourite. Following the lockdown, a few online rummy platforms have witnessed an increase in registration. They are also giving discounts on their welcome offers to attract more registrations. “I used to play cards with my friends and colleagues in the evening before the lockdown. Due to the prevailing coronavirus situation, staying indoors leaves me with plenty of idle time. Hence, I have no other option except indulge in online gaming,” said T Anil Kumar (name changed) to TOI. In cities such as Visakhapatnam, Vijayawada, Tirupati and Kurnool, illegal gambling dens have been shut down. The lockdown has also hit the revenue source of organisers of the illegal gambling dens, said a senior police officer. The addicts, who earlier thronged the gambling dens, are playing rummy online for cash rewards. “In online rummy, we have many options and we can play for small (Rs 5) and large stakes (Rs 10,000) for each game. While Covid-19 has hit many industries, it has benefitted the online gaming industry, which has seen a massive surge in the number of players from cities like Visakhapatnam and Vijayawada,” said K Prabhakar, who spends at least three hours a day playing rummy online. A senior police officer told TOI that as rummy does not fall under the Andhra Pradesh of Gaming Act, 1974, police cannot take action.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/with-gambling-dens-closed-addicts-turn-to-online-rummy/articleshow/75111793.cms||Nalla.Babu
April 13, 2020||Nashik||MLA stresses for lymphocyte testing||NASHIK: Nashik Central MLA Devayani Pharande has written to Prime Minister Narendra Modi requesting him to conduct tests of lymphocytes for early detection of Covid 19. Reffering to the research papers that she has attached to the letter sent to the prime minister, the MLA said, “Besides the regular testing the testing of lymphocytes may also be done for earlier diagnosis as in initial stage of onset of Covid-19, lymphocytes are seen to have reduced resulting in lymphocytopenia.” The MLA, an expert microbiology, claimed that the step would help in early diagnosis of the indications of Covid 19 patients and help in early intervention in the treatment. The MLA also has proposed testing of one person per family in the affected cities, towns and villages on priority basis. “Microbiology postgraduate students may be utilized for the project,” the MLA said referring to the letter by Microbiologists Society, India, where they have said they were willing to join the task. Similarly, BJP corporator from Nashik Varsha Bhalerao, who is also the member of standing committee Nashik Municipal Corporation and Tree Conservation Committee, has also written to Modi drawing his attention of utilising the unused ventilators personally owned by people.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/mla-stresses-for-lymphocyte-testing/articleshow/75113690.cms||Abhilash Botekar
April 13, 2020||Meerut||UP woman tweets to PM about crammed quarantine facility, admin swings into action||MEERUT: A woman took to Twitter to narrate “pathetic” condition of a quarantine facility in UP’s Khurja town where she claimed that 20 Covid-19 suspects were crammed into a room along with her husband and two minor daughters. The woman, who is now at her parents’ home in Greater Noida, claimed in a series of tweets that her husband and two children were also not getting proper food at the shelter home in Bulandshahr’s Khurja town. “The condition of this quarantine centre is very pathetic. It has 20 suspects crammed in a single small room, and chances are very high that the disease will spread among them if anyone is infected. Garbage is also strewn all over,” she said while tagging the PMO and the UP chief minister. Her husband was put under quarantine after he drove a doctor from Shikarpur to Bulandshahr. The doctor died at Delhi’s Safdarjung hospital on Friday due to novel coronavirus infection. “The doctor was the friend of my neighbour. He had fainted and required immediate medical attention. That is why I drove him in my car to Bulandshahr. After that we were brought to this Khurja shelter home,” the husband told TOI over phone. A day after the tweets, which were later deleted, the administration swung into action. “Help has come to us. Health department has sent people to clean and sanitise the room. This is all we wanted and there is no other complaint that we have to make,” he said, adding, “As of now, there are 13 people in the hall.” When contacted, Dr KN Tiwari, Bulandshahr’s chief medical officer (CMO), said, “We saw the complaint and a team for sanitisation of the shelter home was sent. All the beds inside the shelter home, which is a huge hall, are kept at a distance of two metre. So there is no risk of spreading of infection among the suspects.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/meerut/up-woman-tweets-to-pm-about-crammed-quarantine-facility-admin-swings-into-action/articleshow/75113172.cms||Ishita Bhatia
April 13, 2020||Jodhpur||Rajasthan crosses 800 mark as Jaipur reports 40 new cases||JAIPUR: The state reported 104 new Covid-19 positive cases on Sunday, which took the total number of coronavirus infections to 804. Out of the fresh cases, 40 are from Jaipur, 15 from Banswara, 12 from Tonk, eight each from Jodhpur and Bikaner, seven from Kota, five from Nagaur, three from Churu, two from Hanumangarh, two from evacuees from Iran, and one each from Jaisalmer and Sikar. A 13-year-old girl, who had come from Agra to JK Lon Hospital and was undergoing treatment for septicemia and other abdominal ailments after she developed severe typhoid, tested positive a day after her death. Also, a 60-year-old man, who was first admitted to SMS Hospital for a surgery and referred to Mahatma Gandhi Hospital, tested positive a day after his death in Tonk. With the two deaths, the toll reached 11 in the state. Health department has initiated a probe into the death of Tonk man to find out under what circumstances he was discharged. Hanumangarh, which reported two cases on Sunday, became the 25th district in the state battling Covid-19. Jaipur now has the highest number of Covid-19 cases in the state with 341 till Sunday. “This is a result of massive testing done across Jaipur. Only after identifying Covid-19 cases can we think of containment,” said Rohit Kumar Singh, additional chief secretary, health.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jodhpur/raj-crosses-800-mark-as-city-reports-40-new-cases/articleshow/75121028.cms||Ashish Mehta
April 13, 2020||Jaipur||Rajasthan crosses 800 mark as Jaipur reports 40 new cases||JAIPUR: The state reported 104 new Covid-19 positive cases on Sunday, which took the total number of coronavirus infections to 804. Out of the fresh cases, 40 are from Jaipur, 15 from Banswara, 12 from Tonk, eight each from Jodhpur and Bikaner, seven from Kota, five from Nagaur, three from Churu, two from Hanumangarh, two from evacuees from Iran, and one each from Jaisalmer and Sikar. A 13-year-old girl, who had come from Agra to JK Lon Hospital and was undergoing treatment for septicemia and other abdominal ailments after she developed severe typhoid, tested positive a day after her death. Also, a 60-year-old man, who was first admitted to SMS Hospital for a surgery and referred to Mahatma Gandhi Hospital, tested positive a day after his death in Tonk. With the two deaths, the toll reached 11 in the state. Health department has initiated a probe into the death of Tonk man to find out under what circumstances he was discharged. Hanumangarh, which reported two cases on Sunday, became the 25th district in the state battling Covid-19. Jaipur now has the highest number of Covid-19 cases in the state with 341 till Sunday. “This is a result of massive testing done across Jaipur. Only after identifying Covid-19 cases can we think of containment,” said Rohit Kumar Singh, additional chief secretary, health.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/raj-crosses-800-mark-as-city-reports-40-new-cases/articleshow/75113514.cms||Ashish Mehta
April 13, 2020||Lucknow||Uttar Pradesh hammers out 3-phase plan for economic revival||LUCKNOW: The state government is hammering out a blueprint for a three-phased revival of the economy once lockdown ends, in keeping with PM Modi’s stress on injecting an economic booster dose while battling covid-19. Top sources in the government said, finance, agriculture and industry departments are working overtime to draw out a robust revival plan that could potentially pull back UP’s pandemic-hit economy. A senior official in know of the strategy said, the revival plan will incorporate recommendations of the committee headed by finance minister Suresh Khanna, which was first formed on CM Yogi Adityanath’s directive when coronavirus was yet to assume pandemic proportions. Confirming the move, cabinet minister and state government spokesperson Siddharth Nath Singh told TOI the economic revival strategy needs to be looked afresh with a new perspective and stronger outlook. “Be it agriculture, industry or the service sector, we need to go back to the basics. UP may also need a financial push from the Centre to make a headstart. Already West Bengal chief minister Mamata Banerjee has sought a Rs 25,000cr special package from the Centre to help the state cope with funds crunch,” he said. A proposal, which is under consideration of CM Yogi – TOI has a copy – spells out economic revival in three phases, beginning with rejuvenation of forward and backward linkages chains that blocked the production value chain. “The need of the hour is to kickstart associated units of industries, which are already functioning,” the draft proposal states. The focus in the first phase is to revive traditional units, which anchor the rural economy. “Since the size of ancilliary units is small, the social distancing norm can be applied smoothly,” it says. The second phase lends thrust to export-oriented units to defuse the problem of inventory pile-up and disbursement of stocks lying in harbours and docks. This would lessen the economic burden looming over the country’s most populous state, the proposal says. The third and final phase talks about a roadmap for revival of heavy industry and service sector, which was hit by the lockdown. The proposal said, since these units are labour intensive, the norm of maintaining social distance would be a bigger challenge. “Therefore units of this kind may be taken up at the last stage when the pandemic is waning,” the proposal states.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/up-hammers-out-3-phase-plan-for-economic-revival/articleshow/75113519.cms||Pankaj Shah
April 13, 2020||Delhi||Epicentre Delhi: When a mild quake followed fake 'Nasa' alert||NEW DELHI: Strong tremors felt across Delhi and the national capital region (NCR) prompted thousands of people to rush out of their houses on Sunday evening. The 3.5-magnitude earthquake was a rare event for the region as its epicentre lay within the capital, at Sonia Vihar in northeast Delhi, at a depth of 8km below the surface, IMD officials said. No injuries or damage to property was reported, the Delhi Disaster Management Authority (DDMA) said. The National Centre for Seismology said the quake occurred at 5.45pm. In a remarkable coincidence, a fake message saying that US space agency Nasa had predicted a strong earthquake in Delhi-NCR between April 7 and 15 had recently become so viral that the fact-checking arm of the government had to intervene to deny it. “It’s rare for an earthquake to have its epicentre in Delhi. We are yet to check what fault line this was in, but the intensity was fairly low,” said an IMD official. Delhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal also tweeted soon after the tremors were felt, praying for the safety of every individual. “Tremors felt in Delhi. Hope everyone is safe. I pray for the safety of each one of you,” he said. The Bureau of Indian Standards has classified the entire country into four seismic groups – ranging from zone II (low intensity) to zone V (very severe). Delhi falls in zone IV (severe), with three fault lines running through it — the Sohna, Mathura and Delhi-Moradabad fault lines. Gurgaon is at a higher risk with seven fault lines running across it. In the aftermath of the 2001 Gujarat quake, Delhi’s seismic classification was revised from zone III to zone IV. An older Union ministry of earth sciences study had put locations on the Yamuna floodplain at the highest risk in the event of an earthquake, including the highly populated residential colonies of east Delhi, including the epicentre of Sunday’s earthquake, Sonia Vihar. Other high-risk places, according to the study, are Lutyens’ Delhi, Sarita Vihar, Paschim Vihar, Wazirabad, Karol Bagh and Janakpuri. In terms of relatively safe areas, locations such as JNU, AIIMS, Chhatarpur, Naraina and Vasant Kunj might be able to withstand a mighty quake, the study had said. The fake viral message had warned people of an earthquake of 9.1 magnitude. “According to Nasa’s assessment, a strong earthquake is going to happen in Delhi. #PIBFactCheck: The video being viral is a reality analysis done by a news channel in 2018, according to which it is a #FakeNews. No such prediction has been made by Nasa,” a PIB fact-check team had tweeted late on Saturday. The exact time, place and magnitude of earthquakes cannot be predicted. “Neither the USGS nor any other scientists have ever predicted a major earthquake,” the United States Geological Survey, an agency of the US government, says on its website. "We do not know how, and we do not expect to know how any time in the foreseeable future. USGS scientists can only calculate the probability that a significant earthquake will occur in a specific area within a certain number of years,” USGS said. (With inputs from agencies) Watch Earthquake tremors felt in Delhi-NCR||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/quake-centred-in-delhi-sparks-panic/articleshow/75113530.cms||---
April 13, 2020||Nashik||Jalgaon banana farmers face unprecedented financial crisis||NASHIK: The novel coronavirus pandemic has inflicted a heavy blow to banana growers in Jalgaon, forcing them to sell their fruit to merchants for as little as Rs 4-6 a dozen. At present, bananas cost at least Rs 40 a dozen at various retail markets in the country. Jalgaon district in North Maharashtra is a hub of banana production. It accounts for over 50% of the state’s 90,000 hectares under banana plantation. Over 75 tons of of the fruit are produced per hectare here. Sources at the state agriculture department told TOI that the farmers are facing an unprecedented financial crisis and could have losses of around Rs six lakh a hectare. “The banana farmers of Jalgaon have never received such low prices for their produce. Many merchants are offering prices which are less than the production cost. Since bananas are a perishable item, farmers cannot hold back the produce,” they said. The peak banana harvesting season in Jalgaon started at the end of March and will continue till August. About 10,000 tons of bananas are harvested daily during this period. “At present the production is abundant. We have no option but to agree to the prices offered by traders as there are plenty of others who will agree to the price,” said banana farmer Vishal Agarwal, who sold his stock at Rs 4 a dozen. He said that the farmers want the government to have a minimum support price (MSP) for bananas like there is for other agricultural produce. Farmers sell raw bananas to the local traders in Jalgaon, who despatch the consignments to their counterparts in different parts of the country. The bananas are then ripened scientifically in ripening air-conditioned chambers before they are sent to the retail markets. Jalgaon guardian minister Gulabrao Patil admitted that the banana farmers of the district are in a financial crisis. “The consumption of bananas has gone down due to the lockdown in different parts of the country. This has hit both farmers and traders. Moreover, traders face problems transporting the fruit in some states due to stringent measures being taken by local administrations. Chief minister Uddhav Thackeray has asked the CMs of Punjab, MP and UP to ensure unhindered movement of banana-laden trucks from Jalgaon to their states,” said Patil. Banana growers worry that some traders are making huge profits by paying farmers a low price on the pretext that demand is low and that road transportation has become costlier because of the lockdown. “Traders are not even ready to pay the production cost, which is between Rs 12 and Rs 14 a dozen. We have never sold bananas at such a low cost,” said Prashant Mahajan, another farmer. Some at the agriculture department are of the view that successive governments in the state have not paid much attention to improve things in this sector, although it contributes significantly in the state’s GDP. “There is a need to have cold chains in Jalgaon where farmers can keep their produce till they get proper prices. Nothing has been done to ensure value addition of the produce in Jalgaon, which will ensure farmers get a better price,” sources said. Exports affected too The export of bananas has also been hit due to unavailability of manpower. Farmers involved in export said that because of the lockdown the skilled labourers have returned to their homes in West Bengal. This has affected the packaging of the fruit for export. The fruit has to be properly packaged so that there are no marks on the skin. Jalgaon bananas are mainly exported to Gulf countries.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/jalgaon-banana-farmers-face-unprecedented-financial-crisis/articleshow/75113693.cms||---
April 13, 2020||Vadodara||Battle against Covid is a family matter for cops||Vadodara: The battle against coronavirus has become a family matter for the police in Vadodara. While the men are on the field risking lives to protect others from spread of the virus, their wives and sisters are saving lives, their own way. These women from families of cops posted in the city have come together to make face masks at the city police headquarters in Pratapnagar. Saroj Kumari, DCP (crime) told TOI: “The women gather in the afternoon for a few hours and stitch masks from cotton cloth. These masks are then distributed to the policemen or common citizens. Our entire police force is out on the roads, manning the roads and keeping citizens indoors during the lockdown. Their dedication inspired the family members to contribute in the battle against coronavirus.” About 15 such women make about 500 masks daily and hand these over to the police department. “I see my husband giving his best in the battle against the virus daily. Therefore, I too decided to contribute in my own way. The masks we make save lives of both the cops as well as the needy people. This is our way of giving it back to the society. We will bring in more women in the coming days,” said Jyoti Patel, wife of police constable, Nilesh Patel, posted in the city police station. The women spend nearly five hours everyday making the masks. They take all precautions including using sanitizers, gloves and maintaining social distance. “We need masks in large numbers and hence these women will continue making face masks in the coming days,” the DCP added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/battle-against-covid-is-a-family-matter-for-cops/articleshow/75111375.cms||Tushar Tere
April 13, 2020||Dehradun||Residents of a sealed locality come out on streets in Haldwani||NAINITAL: Hundreds of residents of Banbhoolpura locality in Haldwani erupted in protest after a fake news started doing the rounds on social media that a local religious leader has been taken to a quarantine facility away from the area. The situation returned to normalcy after police intervened. Nainital SSP Sunil Kumar Meena said, “We talked to the people and assured them that no such incident has taken place. The crowd soon dispersed and returned to their homes.” Meanwhile, the administration said that 10 teams from the health department went to the area on Sunday and screened over 2,200 people from 413 households.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/residents-of-a-sealed-locality-come-out-on-streets/articleshow/75112730.cms||Prashant Jha
April 13, 2020||Dehradun||Salesman at petrol pump robbed of Rs 50,000 in Roorkee||ROORKEE: Three unidentified bike-borne miscreants robbed Rs 50,000 (approximately) from a gasoline salesman at a petrol pump in Jhabreda area on Sunday. They robbed the man at gun-point and fled the spot. Police have said that several teams have been formed to nab the accused trio. Haridwar SSP Senthil Avoodai Krishna Raj S, who rushed to the spot upon getting information of the crime, told TOI that the three bike-borne masked men came to Vikrant Petrol Station on Jabreda-Iqbalpur road and robbed around Rs 50,000 from the salesman at gun point. "Though all link routes of the area are being patrolled by the police, it looks like the miscreants took one of the remote routes to reach the petrol pump. We are trying to gather every possible clue to ascertain their identity," he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/salesman-at-petrol-pump-robbed-of-rs-50k/articleshow/75112726.cms||Tapan Susheel
April 13, 2020||Mysuru||Non-availability of mutton dampens Easter cheer in Mysuru||Mysuru: Mutton was hard to find in Mysuru city on Sunday, much to the disappointment of those who had been looking forward to enjoying a sumptuous meal to celebrate Easter. The absence of mutton at the butcher’s resulted in the price of chicken spiralling up to Rs 200 per kg. Meat traders said that selling mutton at Rs 500 per kg – the price fixed by the Mysuru City Corporation (MCC) - was not feasible for them economically. A Christopher said that they prepared both mutton and chicken dishes at home every Sunday, and it being Easter, the occasion called for a special meal. “I wanted to buy an extra helping of mutton since it was Easter but unfortunately, I could not find any although I asked around in quite a few stalls. It was distressing to see chicken being sold for Rs 200 per kg, while I had paid just Rs 150 last week. The non-availability of mutton is really unfortunate,” Christopher told TOI. MCC commissioner Gurudutta Hegde said that the price of mutton had been fixed in accordance with directives from the government. “However, considering the sharp spike that this has triggered in the price of chicken, I will speak to the authorities concerned, and see what can be done,” said Hegde. Sale of meat back in Kodagu Residents of the hilly district of Kodagu woke up on Sunday to the delicious news of the availability of meat at their markets. The sale of meat had been restricted following the announcement of the lockdown in Kodagu, and despite a decision taken at a meeting chaired by district in-charge minister V Somanna relaxing rules allowing the sale of meat 10 days ago, it was not implemented following opposition by local MLAs. Although the ban has been lifted, the sale of meat will be allowed only three days a week. Mutton and fish can be sold on Monday, Wednesday and Friday between 6am and 12pm, and at prices stipulated by the district administration. Authorities have asked all traders to ensure hygienic conditions at their respective stores. The price of mutton has been capped at Rs 600 per kg, while that of chicken at Rs 180 per kg. Meanwhile, one kg of pork has been priced at Rs 220 per kg, while the price of freshwater fish (katla) has been capped at Rs 200 per kg. The district administration has also relaxed norms to allow bakeries and condiment stores to function, as long as they employ a minimal workforce and enforce social distancing.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mysuru/non-availability-of-mutton-dampens-easter-cheer-in-mysuru/articleshow/75111329.cms||---
April 13, 2020||Vijayawada||Gamblers choose cards over virus||Vijayawada: In the past one week, Visakhapatnam Task Force police nabbed over 40 persons for playing cards and gambling in open places such as mango orchards, playgrounds and beaches. They also seized over Rs 1 lakh in cash from the gamblers. “Despite repeated instructions and appeals from the police, a few people have been defying the lockdown and gambling. We have been coming across groups of six to ten people playing cards in the ope, said ACP (Task Force), Visakhapatnam, A Trinad Rao. But busting of gambling activities and arresting the gamblers are not easy, police sources said. Earlier, gamblers used to often change their places to evade police raids. “We are dependent on informants to get concrete information to conduct raids. Often we receive information from a gambler who felt he was cheated. But the general public who do not like the gambling activities also used to inform us,” police said. TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/gamblers-choose-cards-over-virus/articleshow/75111800.cms||---
April 13, 2020||Hubballi||Shortage at KIMS, officials take away equipment from KU lab||DHARWAD: After the Karnataka Institute of Medical Sciences (KIMS) in Hubballi sought equipment from other institutions to test suspect Covid-19 cases, the district administration rushed to Karnatak University on Sunday and took possession of laminar airflow cabinet. Directed by the deputy commissioner, a team of officials led by assistant commissioner Mohemmed Zuber went to the KU microbiology department laboratory housed in the geology department building and took away the cabinet. Zuber said the administration approached the KU authorities in the morning after the request for instrument came from KIMS doctors but the varsity authorities concerned were not cooperative. “Hence, we were directed to come to the department and secure the equipment,” he said. However, KU acting vice-chancellor T M Bhaskar denied the charges of non-cooperation. He said the university has since March 10 given KIMS six equipment for its various laboratories. “The doctors had told us that there was no need for any more equipment and since today was a Sunday, the lab at microbiology department was locked. When the officials called us we informed them about what the doctors had said earlier. Still, the officials broke open the lab. The equipment sought by them are fixed to a wall and we are breaking the wall and giving them the required equipment,” Bhaskar said. Shortage of kitsIn the district, the ICMR has given approval to KIMS and Dharwad Institute of Mental Health and Neurosciences for testing of swab and blood samples of suspected Covid-19 cases. However, the testing is hit due to lack of adequate kits. Meanwhile, the Karnatak Institute of DNA Research (Kidnar) has offered conduct virology tests but has sought the government’s help in adding some facilities. “This will help testing the samples of people from 13 districts of north Karnataka fast,” said Kidnar director Pramod Gai. He said the upgrade will cost Rs 50-60 lakh and Kidnar can start testing within a week.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hubballi/shortage-at-kims-officials-take-away-equipment-from-ku-lab/articleshow/75110811.cms||GURURAJ JAMKHANDI
April 13, 2020||Ajmer||Hair gone: In Ajmer village,these youths take a ‘bald’ step||AJMER: Frustrated with the lockdown and closure of services such as hair salons, youths of Mayapur village, near Ajmer city, shaved their heads to keep their hair style worries away. Since all have gone bald, they don't need to worry about being teased. After the lockdown on March 21, hair salons in Ajmer city had shut shop and all had to stay indoors. “We generally went to Ajmer for a haircut as we are not keen on our local barber,” said Monty Rawat, a youth from Mayapur village. As worry over their unruly hair styles grew over the last last 20 days, the youths decided to take things into their own hands. To solve the problem, they decided to shave their heads. At first, two youths shaved each other's head. This soon became over a dozen youths as friends helped each other to go bald. “This caught on and has become the common hair style of the village. Now, no one has to worry about next two months,” said a local youth. Villagers said that all were very cautious in their locality and from March 20, no one from the village had ventured out nor a single person from outside entered the village. “We do not want any infection in our village and, therefore, we made a team and secured the gates of the village day and night,” said a local resident. Mayapur is a village near Ajmer city with a population of about 6,000 people. Most of them are agricultural or dairy farmers and depend on Ajmer city for every service.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ajmer/hair-gone-in-ajmer-villagethese-youths-take-a-bald-step/articleshow/75113528.cms||---
April 13, 2020||Coimbatore||SDPI cadres booked for distributing pamphlets||COIMBATORE: Three members of the Popular Front of India (PFI) and one person belonging to Social Democratic Party of India (SDPI) were booked on Sunday for distributing pamphlets allegedly containing inflammatory messages against Hindu organizations. M Y Abbas, president of SDPI, Ukkadam area, and PFI members Ibrahim alias Belt Ibrahim, Hakkim and C P Ibrahim were distributing pamphlets near a mosque on Vincent Road on March 20, inviting people to attend the Tablighi Jamaat congregation in New Delhi. The pamphlets allegedly contained inflammatory messages against Hindu organisations, police claimed. Ukkadam police came to know about the ‘inflammatory’ pamphlets on Saturday and registered a case against the four people. They were booked under sections 153 (A) (1) (a) (promoting enmity between different groups and 505 (2) (public mischief) of the IPC. Further investigations are on.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/sdpi-cadres-booked-for-distributing-pamphlets/articleshow/75113179.cms||---
April 13, 2020||Visakhapatnam||33 Andhra Pradesh students to reach home today, month since leaving Italy||HYDERABAD: Almost a month after flying out of Covid-19-ravaged Italy, 33 Telugu students will be reaching their respective homes in Andhra Pradesh by Monday evening. The group, which includes five girl students, arrived from Italy on March 15 in Delhi. They were immediately quarantined for 14 days at Indo-Tibetan Border Police (ITBP) camp at Chhawla. Then, they spent another 12 days there. The students, who started from Delhi on April 10 night for their homes, faced roadblocks. The bus they were travelling in was stopped in Chhattisgarh for alleged lockdown violations. They were taken to a government school and held there for a day. With the intervention of AP government and the Union home ministry, the bus was released on Sunday evening. S Yugandhar Babu, a management student from Milan (Italy) and native of Nellore, spoke to TOI over phone from Chhattisgarh. “Around 7.00pm, we started from Chhattisgarh. I hope we will reach home by (Monday) evening. We have taken this route instead of the Nagpur one as some students hail from north districts like Visakhapatnam and Vizianagaram,” he said. Explaining their 27-day ordeal, Yugandhar Babu said, “We came from Covid-19 affected areas of Milan and northern regions of Italy by an Air India special flight. We landed on March 15 and we were not allowed even into the terminal building. Our immigration was cleared on the runway itself. Then, we were taken to ITBP camp at Chhawla and quarantined for 14 days.” “Some of us didn’t eat properly in the last three weeks. One of the girls is just surviving on biscuits and water. We were tested daily. Our temperature and blood pressure readings were taken and stamped. On March 15 and March 29, all of us tested negative for Covid-19 and accordingly certified. ITBP brass has been asking us to leave the camp as they were expecting returnees from Afghanistan. We did not have money to individually hire taxis, which would cost around Rs 30,000 each. So, we took help of some friends, pooled money and then hired a bus,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/visakhapatnam/33-ap-students-to-reach-home-today-mnth-since-leaving-italy/articleshow/75114023.cms||U Sudhakar Reddy
April 13, 2020||Hyderabad||33 Andhra Pradesh students to reach home today, month since leaving Italy||HYDERABAD: Almost a month after flying out of Covid-19-ravaged Italy, 33 Telugu students will be reaching their respective homes in Andhra Pradesh by Monday evening. The group, which includes five girl students, arrived from Italy on March 15 in Delhi. They were immediately quarantined for 14 days at Indo-Tibetan Border Police (ITBP) camp at Chhawla. Then, they spent another 12 days there. The students, who started from Delhi on April 10 night for their homes, faced roadblocks. The bus they were travelling in was stopped in Chhattisgarh for alleged lockdown violations. They were taken to a government school and held there for a day. With the intervention of AP government and the Union home ministry, the bus was released on Sunday evening. S Yugandhar Babu, a management student from Milan (Italy) and native of Nellore, spoke to TOI over phone from Chhattisgarh. “Around 7.00pm, we started from Chhattisgarh. I hope we will reach home by (Monday) evening. We have taken this route instead of the Nagpur one as some students hail from north districts like Visakhapatnam and Vizianagaram,” he said. Explaining their 27-day ordeal, Yugandhar Babu said, “We came from Covid-19 affected areas of Milan and northern regions of Italy by an Air India special flight. We landed on March 15 and we were not allowed even into the terminal building. Our immigration was cleared on the runway itself. Then, we were taken to ITBP camp at Chhawla and quarantined for 14 days.” “Some of us didn’t eat properly in the last three weeks. One of the girls is just surviving on biscuits and water. We were tested daily. Our temperature and blood pressure readings were taken and stamped. On March 15 and March 29, all of us tested negative for Covid-19 and accordingly certified. ITBP brass has been asking us to leave the camp as they were expecting returnees from Afghanistan. We did not have money to individually hire taxis, which would cost around Rs 30,000 each. So, we took help of some friends, pooled money and then hired a bus,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/33-ap-students-to-reach-home-today-mnth-since-leaving-italy/articleshow/75113494.cms||U Sudhakar Reddy
April 13, 2020||Hubballi||Two-year-old boy among three fresh cases reported in Kalaburagi||Kalaburagi/ Belagavi: Among the three Covid-19 cases reported in Kalaburagi district on Sunday, one was a two-year-old boy, who was already receiving treatment at a hospital for severe acute respiratory illness. Kalaburagi district administration, however, has not been able to find how the child came to be infected. The infected child’s family, natives of Madhya Pradesh, was residing in Wadi in Kalaburagi, and the district administration has launched an operation to trace their primary contacts. Kalaburagi deputy commissioner Sharath B told TOI, “The father of the child is self-employed, and owns a bookstore at Wadi Railway Station. We are currently working on locating the source of the child’s infection.” A 38-year-old woman, a Group D worker at a private hospital who was working in a ward where a Covid-19 patient was treated illegally, has tested positive for novel coronavirus. The 65-year-old patient who was treated at the private hospital subsequently passed away, while his 24-year-old daughter-in-law has been confirmed with the infection. The private institution, Bahamani Hospital had housed the 65-year-old patient from April 4 through 6, before he was shifted to the state-run ESI Hospital. He was the second fatality to Covid-19 in the district. Meanwhile, the district administration has sealed Bahamani Hospital, and cases have been booked against the management. Sharath said that all the three patients are being treated at ESI Hospital. Asymptomatic transmission of the novel coronavirus in Kalaburagi has raised the hackles of the district administration. The kin of two residents, who had returned from New Delhi, tested positive for the infection recently, prompting the authorities to step up screening, and 20,168 households were inspected subsequently. On the other hand, two infected patients have recovered from the infection while more than 1,500 are being kept under observation. Cases rise in Belagavi, district jumps to 3rd spot Belagavi registered four fresh cases of Covid-19 on Sunday, pushing the district’s tally to 14. This means that Belagavi now has the third spot in the district-wise rankings in Karnataka, pipping Kalaburagi, while trailing Bengaluru and Mysuru, which respectively hold the first and second spots. Incidentally, all the four people who were confirmed infected on Sunday had come in direct contact with those who had previously tested positive. All the four individuals who have tested positive are men, respectively aged 19, 38, 55 and 25.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hubballi/two-year-old-boy-among-three-fresh-cases-reported-in-kalaburagi/articleshow/75111086.cms||Shreyas HS
April 13, 2020||Hyderabad||Online curiosity over coronavirus ebbs||HYDERABAD: Interest over coronavirus over the pandemic has been decreasing since April 1, a study of search trends on Google reveals. People from Telangana and Andhra Pradesh were seen to be searching less frequently as compared to March 28 when searches pertaining to the pandemic had reached its peak. However, searches on anti-malarial drug Hydroxychloroquine (HCQ) have increased. While ‘sex’ still remains the most-searched term compared to searches on ‘Corona’ or ‘Coronavirus’, search requests have come in from places such as Kurmaguda and Bongloor. Searches from Hyderabad pertain to situation updates on countries such as Italy and United States apart from other virus updates and lockdown situation in the city. In Andhra Pradesh, places like Madanapalle and Chittoor have recorded higher search rates than Vijayawada. People were seen searching for updates on the situation in Mindspace and GSM in the first few days of March. Interestingly, search interest lasted from February 29 to March 30. Meanwhile, searches on coronavirus have seen a dip in the past 12 days. Regarding the anti-malarial drug, Hydroxychloroquine, searches from Telangana peaked on March 24, April 7 and April 9. Queries pertained to topics such as dosage, tablet usage and brand name. In Telangana, most searches came from Hyderabad while Visakhapatnam recorded the most searches on the anti-malarial drug in Andhra Pradesh. While searches on terms such as ‘Corona’ and ‘Coronavirus’ have decreased, searches on the term ‘COVID19’ has seen an increase but not a significant one. Most searches on coronavirus came from Secunderabad, Nizamabad, Sangareddy, Hanamkonda and Hyderabad in Telangana. In AP, most searches came from Chittoor, Adoni, Tirupati, Madanapalle and Guntakal. On the day when Telangana chief minister K Chandrasekhar Rao held a press conference, searches for him on Google had shown a significant increase.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/online-curiosity-over-coronavirus-ebbs/articleshow/75113505.cms||U Sudhakar Reddy
April 13, 2020||Lucknow||Disinfection cabins set up in 27 prisons||Lucknow: In a first, Uttar Pradesh prisons department h as installed ‘disinfection cabins’ in 27 jails. The cabin, equipped with sanitiser and soap dispenser, is for use by one person at a time. So far, the disinfection cabins have been installed in Hardoi, Agra, Ghaziabad, Gautam Budh Nagar, Meerut, Unnao, Kaushambi, Kheri, Ayodhya, Fatehgarh, Pilibhit, Rae Bareli, Balrampur, Aligarh, Lucknow, Sultanpur, Sonbhadra, Mirzapur, Moradabad, Maharajganj, Rampur, Kasganj, Jhansi, Azamgarh, Shahjahanpur, Siddharthnagar, and Chitrakoot and would come up in remaining 44 jails also, said prison officials. Talking to TOI, director-general, prisons and reform, Anand Kumar said a ‘disinfection cabin’ costs around Rs 5,000. “The cabin is made of transparent fibre of 12-15 feet and resembles a PCO booth. Upon entering the cabin, an electrically operated pump creates a disinfectant mist of hypo sodium chloride for disinfecting the user. The mist spray is calibrated for a 45-second operation and stops automatically, indicating completion of the process. It can disinfect as many as 80 persons in an hour,” said Kumar. As per procedure, one needs to close eyes while going into the cabin. Approximately, a refill is required after disinfecting 500 personnel, the DG said. Lights are installed in it for use at night. “We will continue this even after the lockdown as it will offer us a germ-free sanitized environment,” the DG added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/disinfection-cabins-set-up-in-27-prisons/articleshow/75113529.cms||---
April 13, 2020||Hyderabad||ISB conducts e-graduation||Hyderabad: It’s not just classes, even convocations are going digital in the times of coronavirus. City-based premier business school, Indian School of Business (ISB), on Sunday said it has conducted the online annual graduation ceremony for the PGP (Post Graduate Programme) class of 2020 and plans to have a full-fledged physical graduation ceremony at both its campuses in Hyderabad and Mohali in the near-term, where students will formally receive their certificates and awards. In its first ever e-graduation ceremony held on April 11, over 880 PGP students from Hyderabad and Mohali campus participated through webinar, that was attended by select board members, faculty and staff, ISB said. Addressing students during the e-convocation, ISB dean Professor Rajendra Srivastava said that in days to come, realignments and re-configurations of business priorities will soon become a reality and one should be well equipped to take forward this imperative. “We should now look beyond economics and focus on designing new paradigms and growth trajectories,” he said. Addressing students over webinar from Singapore, Harish Manwani, chairman, ISB Executive Board, urged students to think out-of-the box and develop new business models which are in sync with the current realities. Professor Ramabhadran S Thirumalai, senior associate dean, academic programmes, said, “Despite these difficult times, over 96% of students have accepted job offers. We welcome you all to this e-graduation and congratulate you on joining the close to 12,000-strong ISB alumni.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/isb-conducts-e-graduation/articleshow/75113504.cms||---
April 13, 2020||Coimbatore||Coimbatore: New infection cluster emerges, two apartment dwellers test positive||COIMBATORE: With four people from an apartment at R S Puram testing positive for the novel coronavirus, a new Covid-19 cluster emerged in the city on Sunday. While three belong to the same family, the fourth person is a close friend of the family. Two of the four people who tested positive flew into the city from New Delhi on March 24. A few Tablighi Jamaat delegates also travelled in the flight, according to the public health department. However, one of their family members, who did not fly with them, died recently of cardiac arrest after showing typical Covid-19 symptoms including cough, fever and diaorrhea. However, he did not go to hospital for treatment and was thus not tested, officials from the health department said. Health department officials say that two of the people who tested positive include a 25-year-old girl and her 56-year-old mother. They travelled in the Indigo flight from New Delhi to Coimbatore on March 24. The girl’s uncle also tested positive. However, they had no symptoms. “However, it was the girl's father, a 52-year-old man who developed a mild cough on April 5, which became a fever and diaorrhea over the next two days. Though GKNM advised him to go to ESI Hospital on April 7, he didn’t because he was too weak and died in the house on April 8. Thus, he was not tested," said deputy director of public health, Dr G Ramesh Kumar. After the man's death, his family contacted the Covid-19 helpline on April 9 and got tested on April 10. The results of their test came on Saturday. “Our health department team is moving them to PSG hospitals, because it is their preference,” he said. “We are also enquiring if the deceased had any other comorbid conditions like diabetes and hypertension,” he added. The health department is working on tracing all the contacts of the deceased and contacts the four positive members since March 24. All the residents in the apartment building and people who attended the funeral on April 8 are also being tested. A couple of families who attended the funeral and met the positive patients have already voluntarily contacted the health department and offered to get tested. Residents of the street say the apartment building is five-storeyed with 30 to 32 apartments. Even assuming each apartment has an average of four people, the health department has to test around 120 people plus security and maids. “Additionally, we are tracing everyone who attended the deceased’s funeral at Isha crematorium. While family said only 12 to 14 people attended, a few neighbours say 30 people attended the funeral,” said Dr Ramesh Kumar. “We are investigating that and will start containment measures around that area once the state government clears it,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/new-infection-cluster-emerges-2-apartment-dwellers-test-ve/articleshow/75113175.cms||Pratiksha Ramkumar
April 13, 2020||Amaravati||33 Andhra Pradesh students to reach home today, month since leaving Italy||HYDERABAD: Almost a month after flying out of Covid-19-ravaged Italy, 33 Telugu students will be reaching their respective homes in Andhra Pradesh by Monday evening. The group, which includes five girl students, arrived from Italy on March 15 in Delhi. They were immediately quarantined for 14 days at Indo-Tibetan Border Police (ITBP) camp at Chhawla. Then, they spent another 12 days there. The students, who started from Delhi on April 10 night for their homes, faced roadblocks. The bus they were travelling in was stopped in Chhattisgarh for alleged lockdown violations. They were taken to a government school and held there for a day. With the intervention of AP government and the Union home ministry, the bus was released on Sunday evening. S Yugandhar Babu, a management student from Milan (Italy) and native of Nellore, spoke to TOI over phone from Chhattisgarh. “Around 7.00pm, we started from Chhattisgarh. I hope we will reach home by (Monday) evening. We have taken this route instead of the Nagpur one as some students hail from north districts like Visakhapatnam and Vizianagaram,” he said. Explaining their 27-day ordeal, Yugandhar Babu said, “We came from Covid-19 affected areas of Milan and northern regions of Italy by an Air India special flight. We landed on March 15 and we were not allowed even into the terminal building. Our immigration was cleared on the runway itself. Then, we were taken to ITBP camp at Chhawla and quarantined for 14 days.” “Some of us didn’t eat properly in the last three weeks. One of the girls is just surviving on biscuits and water. We were tested daily. Our temperature and blood pressure readings were taken and stamped. On March 15 and March 29, all of us tested negative for Covid-19 and accordingly certified. ITBP brass has been asking us to leave the camp as they were expecting returnees from Afghanistan. We did not have money to individually hire taxis, which would cost around Rs 30,000 each. So, we took help of some friends, pooled money and then hired a bus,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/amaravati/33-ap-students-to-reach-home-today-mnth-since-leaving-italy/articleshow/75114024.cms||U Sudhakar Reddy
April 13, 2020||Meerut||16 Covid-19 suspects booked for fleeing quarantine facility||MEERUT: In a rather shocking incident, 16 people with Covid-19-like symptoms, who were put under a 14-day quarantine at Janta Inter College in Bulandshahr since Saturday, had broke open a window grill and escaped on Sunday. A police team soon launched an extensive search and arrested 14 of them until Sunday night. Sanjay Kumar Singh, sub-divisional magistrate, Dibai, said, “As many as 16 suspected cases who came from Ghaziabad-Noida area and other adjoining districts to Bulandshahr were kept at a quarantine facility of Janta Inter College, Dibai. They broke open the centre's window grill and fled. Police launched a search operation and traced them.” Notably, the facility in question was made for those who were suspected Covid-19 cases after returning from other districts. Bulandshahr SSP Santosh Kumar Singh said, “As many as 103 people were quarantined at Janta Inter College on Saturday after being suspected of infection. They had returned from other districts. An FIR has been filed against all the 16. Till now, 14 have been traced.” The FIR was registered at Dibai police station under IPC sections 269 (negligent act likely to spread infection of disease dangerous to life), 270 (malignant act likely to spread infection of disease dangerous to life), 271 (disobedience to quarantine rule) and relevant sections of the Epidemic Diseases Act, according to Akhilesh Kumar, station house officer, Dibai.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/meerut/16-covid-19-suspects-bookedfor-fleeing-quarantine-facility/articleshow/75113177.cms||Ishita Bhatia
April 13, 2020||Lucknow||Agra coronavirus cases cross 100, push Uttar Pradesh tally to 491||LUCKNOW: Agra continued to report high number of cases -- 12 on Sunday -- as UP’s tally weent up by 32 to reach 491. Eight of Agra cases were linked to a single source — a private hospital whose owner and son had tested positive earlier.  They were also responsible for six cases in Firozabad. The total number of cases linked to Tablighi Jamaat congregation now stand at 283, including 11 found on Sunday. Twelve cases of Agra took its overall tally to 104, including 52 Jamat attendees. According to CMO Agra, Mukesh Vats, “two out of the 12 new corona positive cases reported were contacts of people who had attended the Nizamuddin Jamaat while nine infected people were family members of a staffer of a private hospital who tested positive on April 9. The 12 the patient is a relative of the 76-year-old woman who died of coronavirus on Wednesday last.” Eight patients from Saharanpur tested positive at LLRM Medical college, Meerut. All are linked to Nizamuddin’s Jamaat. CMO BS Bodh said: “District authorities informed us that four of these patients are residents of Maharashtra, one each from Indonesia and West Bengal and two are from Assam. They were traced from Deoband, Gangoh and Saharanpur city.” With this, the district tally reached 28. Five patients were reported in Meerut. CMO Raj Kumar said that three of these patients were relatives of Amrawati businessman while two were contacts of Tablighi Jamaat attendees. “The new cases took district total to 56.” Firozabad reported six cases, all linked to an Agra hospital. CMO Dr SK Dixit said, “The main patient is a lab assistant who worked in Agra’s private hospital whose owner and his son tested positive to covid last week. All patients were screened at PGI Saifai. The man passed on the infection to his wife and four of his friends. We traced listed 38 other contacts. The entire village is being sealed for sanitisation.” In Mathura, a 14-year old boy tested positive for Covid-19 on Sunday, taking the district tally to four. Mathura CMO Sher Singh said: “The boy had returned after attending a religious programme in Bharatpur district of Rajasthan.” Meanwhile, in a shocking incident, a suspected cororna patient lodged in the quarantine centre set up at Galgotia College reportedly committed suicide. According to officials at Knowledge Park police station of Greater Noida, “the deceased was a resident of slum area in sector-8. He was depressed and wanted to go to his home.” The person was declared ‘brought dead’ by doctors at Regional PG Institute Noida.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/agra-corona-cases-cross-100-push-up-tally-to-491/articleshow/75113532.cms||Shailvee Sharda
April 13, 2020||Vijayawada||Growing +ve cases in Guntur district worries administration||Guntur: A complete shutdown was observed in Guntur district on Sunday as part of the stringent measures initiated by the district administration to contain the spread of Covid-19. Keeping in view of the rising numbers of people testing positive for Covid-19, district collector I Samuel Anand Kumar had ordered the closure of all shops, including vegetable markets and grocery shops on Sunday. The daily relaxation time of three hours—from 6am to 9am—for the purchase of groceries and vegetables was also suspended to keep all the citizens indoors. All the streets wore a deserted look. The police had set up barricades at all vantage points even in the remote colonies and prevented people from moving around. Even milk booths were closed following the district collector’s instructions. Except medical shops and hospitals, no commercial activity was allowed. The city’s police administration also closed down the flyovers near the jute mill (Pattabhipuram) and Sankar Vilas centre, which connect the Two Town area with One Town to restrict public movement from Monday. Interestingly, the district collector had also directed that all the meat and chicken stalls be closed down until further instructions. After getting reports that people are overcrowding near the chicken and meat stalls—particularly on Sundays—the district collector decided not to allow the shops to reopen till further review. The district administration is also worried about the increasing number of people testing positive for coronavirus in the district, with 80 cases reported till Sunday. Special officer for Covid-19 operations and principal secretary of higher education Dr Rajasekhar is closely reviewing the measures initiated along with the senior officials and has put the field teams on high alert. Rajasekhar and district collector Samuel Anand Kumar visited NRI hospital, the district’s Covid-19 hospital and inspected arrangements.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/growing-ve-cases-in-guntur-district-worries-administration/articleshow/75111815.cms||---
April 13, 2020||Coimbatore||District administration to rope in more SHGs to produce masks||COIMBATORE: The district administration is in the process of identifying 25 more self-help groups (SHGs) to produce reusable cloth masks. At present, 25 SHGs are making the masks in the district, an official with the Tamil Nadu Corporation for Development of Women said. “They have produced 2.5 lakh masks till date. While most of them are producing reusable cotton masks, only three groups are making non-woven masks. Depending on the variety and quality of the masks, one is sold for Rs 10 to Rs 15,” he said. More than half of the masks are sold to government departments including cooperative stores, Tamil Nadu Civil Supplies Corporation and local bodies, the official said. “We have also been receiving bulk orders from companies and volunteers who want to distribute masks to the public.” Pointing out that they have been working on to increase the number of SHGs involved in producing masks, the official said that their target is to meet the local demand, which is on the rise. “At present, the SHGs are not scattered evenly across the district. While some blocks have two to three groups, others don’t have any. As a result, residents are forced to buy the masks from other places. We want to ensure that each block has at least one SHG to meet the local demand. We will help them to purchase raw materials and to market the product.” Acknowledging the rising demand for face masks, Beulah Helen Rani of Illanthalir Women’s group in Pilichi said the SHG was producing 1,000 masks a day. “On some days, our members can produce 5,000 masks. We have been receiving orders from hospitals, panchayat offices and shops,” she said. The demand for raw materials has also increased due to the lockdown, Rani said. “We were forced to reduce the output due to the lack of sufficient raw materials and transportation issues.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/dist-admin-to-rope-in-more-shgs-to-produce-masks/articleshow/75113189.cms||Nivedha Selvam
April 13, 2020||Coimbatore||CPI (ML) cadres stage protest in RS Puram||COIMBATORE: Members of Communist Party of India (Marxist–Leninist) on Sunday stood in front of their houses at Kumarasamy Colony in RS Puram carrying empty plates to register their protest against the government for allegedly not planning the lockdown properly. Similar protests were conducted at several parts of the district, CPI(ML) state committee member M S Velmurugan said. “How can low-income families have healthy food while there is lack of employment opportunities and support from the government? We have bought our share of essential commodities from ration shops. But for how long we can eat just rice? We also need grocery items and vegetables. Following the lockdown, vegetable price has increased several folds. Some of us are suffering without money even to buy medicines. Isn’t it the responsibility of the government to assist us financially to manage our daily expenses?” The government should provide essential commodities to even those who do not have ration cards, the party leader said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/cpi-ml-cadres-stage-protest/articleshow/75113182.cms||---
April 13, 2020||Dehradun||One dead, two critical, as jeep hits scooter in Mussoorie||MUSSOORIE: One person died while two women were seriously injured as the scooter they were on was hit by a jeep on Mussoorie-Kempty road. The injured persons were on their way to Kempty village from Mussoorie on a scooter, when it was hit by a jeep. Kempty station officer Kavita Rani told TOI, “Jabar Singh (45), who was riding the two-wheeler, suffered serious injuries, as did his wife Paro Devi (42) and daughter Kajal (16). All three were rushed to Civil Hospital, Mussoorie. Singh was declared dead by doctors, while Paro and Kajal were referred to a higher centre in Dehradun.” “We are investigating the cause of the accident,” Kavita said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/one-dead-two-critical-as-jeep-hits-scooter/articleshow/75112736.cms||---
April 13, 2020||Business||PE & VC deal-making set for further dip in June quarter||BENGALURU: Private equity (PE) and venture capital (VC) investments, which were already down 20-40% during the March quarter, are expected to come to a grinding halt in the June quarter as many investors put deals on hold as they see the impact of Covid-19 on the economy, stock markets and specific sectors as well. Several deals are also on hold because of logistical issues, like getting tax certificates or travel for due diligence, while in few extreme cases investors are also pulling out of deals. Over 78% of investors think it is a bad time for deals across early stage and growth capital, according to a survey of 100 PE and VC firms conducted by Indian Venture Capital Association (IVCA) and Praxis. Investors expect a significant pause in deal making in the June quarter, even as they wait and watch how sharp fall in economic growth impacts business outlook and the slide in stock markets translates into sobering valuations. “Some companies will get impaired but there will be others who remain as investable, if not more, because valuation expectations will be more reasonable. What will be tougher to figure the capex cycle because there will be a setback, as companies won’t be confident to invest additional capital till they are confident about existing capacity utilisation,” said Padmanabh Sinha, former chairman of industry body Indian Venture Capital Association (IVCA). Besides slowdown in new investments, 45% of investors also think that growth for existing portfolio companies for the next two years will remain lower as compared to FY20, while another 89% think the plans for an IPO or exit will have to be delayed, according to the IVCA survey. For investors like US buyout major KKR, the priority is to close the existing transactions already in final stages, besides helping portfolio companies make sure their employees are safe and they have enough liquidity to go through the next three-to-six months of uncertain period. “There will also be a structural, longer-term change in consumer behaviour because of this crisis so we will have to help portfolio companies adapt to the new reality. We are looking for new opportunities thoughtfully, especially companies which need short and long-term capital solutions, which can be taken forward once the crisis blows over,” said KKR India CEO Sanjay Nayar, who added that the government has an opportunity to unveil big reforms for manufacturing and financial services sector. Investors are also advising their portfolio companies that raising money over the next quarter will be difficult, and terms of a transaction may not be favourable. Financing deals led by existing investors to help companies tide over the crisis are expected to increase in the coming months, as will cost cuts including layoffs as business drops. “It’s more important to optimise for company runway (time before companies run out of cash) than valuation at this point. A “flat round” that extends your runway to at least 12 months is a good outcome in these times,” advised top VC firms like Sequoia Capital India, Accel India, SAIF Partners, Lightspeed Venture Partners, Matrix India, and others to startups through their collective effort Action Covid Team (ACT). Several top VCs and entrepreneurs have also written to the government for a relief package for the startup sector, including bankrolling part of employee salaries besides rent and tax relief. Some founders are already facing a tough time raising money. A Gurugram-based founder told TOI that two angel investors who were participating in funding for the startup have pulled out of the deal. “Another investor is making up for the amount they were investing, but one cannot assume a transaction is closed till the money is in the bank in this climate,” said the founder, who requested anonymity.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/pe-vc-deal-making-set-for-further-dip-in-june-qtr/articleshow/75113199.cms||---
April 13, 2020||Coimbatore||Construction workers in Coimbatore left in lurch||COIMBATORE: Construction workers in the district registered with the labour welfare department have said that they have not received the special assistance of 1,000 promised by the state government to help them during the lockdown. Workers still waiting for the dole include both whose bank accounts are already with the board and those who had given their bank details after the announcement, said union representatives. N Selvaraj, general secretary of Tamil Nadu AITUC Construction Workers’ Union, said the money transfer system of the labour welfare department was ineffective and was the main reason for the delay. A total of around 96,000 construction workers in the district are registered with the workers’ union, Selvaraj said. “Of these, officials say around 56,000 have not renewed their details with the labour department. Of the remaining 40,000, the department has bank details of only 12,000 workers,” he said. Names of workers dropped from the labour department list because of non-renewal does not follow established norms, he said. “Before names are dropped, workers have to be given a showcause notice and a 60-day time period,” Selvaraj said. “The department says it will give assistance only to those workers who have a standing registration in the board. At a time of a huge crisis like this, it is not fair. Almost 85% of the total construction workers here depend on daily wages for sustenance. Due to the lockdown, all labourers are affected. All should be given the assistance,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/construction-workers-left-in-lurch/articleshow/75113203.cms||---
April 13, 2020||Vijayawada||Guntur yet to identify Covid source||Guntur: The Guntur district administration has intensified its efforts to find out how three people were infected with Covid-19. Two of these people have died. Neither the two victims nor the positive patient were in the list of people who had come into contact with other Covid-19 carriers. Identifying the source of the infection is important to contain the virus spread. The cable television network technician in Narasaraopet who died due to Covid-19 had no apparent links with any of the Delhi returnees or foreign returnees. With a suspicion that he might have contracted it from one of the cable network customers, officials shifted many of the residents close to his house to quarantine homes and had sent samples for test. The victim was a TB patient for long and his samples for Covid-19 returned positive. The results, however, came after his death and made tracking of his contacts difficult. A 55-year old patient of Narayanapuram in Dachepalle town of Gurazala constituency died of Covid-19 on Saturday. His samples returned positive after his death. Police, revenue and health wing officials have launched search in every possible contact of the victim to track down the source of the virus. “Unless we know how he contracted the virus, the chances are more for the spread of the virus,” said a senior official. The victim had no travel history not had he met any of the Delhi returnees.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/guntur-yet-to-identify-covid-source/articleshow/75111826.cms||Samdani MN
April 13, 2020||Nashik||Over 1,300 vehicles seized for lockdown violation||NASHIK: Over 1,300 vehicles have been seized by city police from March 19 to April 9 for those flouting lockdown imposed to curb the spread of Covid-19. A senior police officer said all the motorists have been booked under section 188 of the Indian Penal Code (disobedience to order duly promulgated by a public servant). "Their vehicles were taken to the respective police stations and will be returned after the lockdown is lifted," he said. Police have issued clear instructions that use of personal vehicles is not allowed without any valid reason (like medical emergency), and only vehicles associated with the essential services can ply on the road. Still, a large number of people continue to neglect the instructions. Among all the police stations, Nashik Road tops the chart by seizing 162 vehicles followed by Satpur (153), Bhadrakali (141) Mumbai Naka(132), Gangapur (125), Mhasrool(124), Sarkarwada (108), Indiranagar (103) Panchavati (101), Ambad (59), Upnagar (58), Deolali Camp (53) and Adgaon (46). A senior police officer said the aim of seizing the vehicles was to ensure that people start realising that their vehicles would be seized if they venture out without any valid reason during the lockdown. "A total of 2,497 people have been booked under section 188 of the IPC from March 22 to April 11," he said, "Around 3,000 police personnel are working in shifts to ensure the lockdown is a success. The decision has been taken in the interest of everyone, but some people do not understand the importance of it. If people continue to neglect the lockdown, the situation would become worse," he added. Meanwhile, commissioner of police Vishwas Nangare Patil on Sunday issued new orders about the timing of essential services in the city. According to the new orders starting from Sunday to April 14, all establishments of essential services, excluding medical services and other essential services, would be allowed to operate only between 10 am to 4 pm.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/over-1300-vehicles-seized-for-lockdown-violation/articleshow/75113696.cms||Santosh Sonawane
April 13, 2020||Coimbatore||Easter service moves online||COIMBATORE: Following a successful livestreaming of Good Friday service, churches in the city conducted Easter service through Facebook live on Sunday. Timothy Ravinder, bishop of Coimbatore CSI Diocese, delivered the service through livestreaming from CSI Cornerstone church in Race Course on Sunday. “It was one of the biggest challenges to conduct the non-gathered worship and that’s when technology came handy. Initially, it was very difficult and challenging to preach the empty hall in front of a camera because this is the first time we are conducting services through livestreaming. Now, we are getting used to it,” he said, pointing out that thousands of people from eight district participated in the service virtually. TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/easter-service-moves-online/articleshow/75113194.cms||---
April 13, 2020||Dehradun||Uttarakhand: Lockdown hurting small, medium business owners most||DEHRADUN: With high speculations over the extension of the lock down, the small and medium scale business owners in the state claimed that the pressure of clearing dues related to salaries of employees, payment of taxes and fees have turned into long-term losses. Talking to TOI, Pawan Sharma, president of the collective body of ready-made garments shop owners of Ghat Road said, “Every shopkeeper here has at least 6 to 8 workers and paying their salaries has become a liability. We have not earned a single penny since the lockdown was announced and now how are we supposed to pay them? In addition to this we all have loans to pay back with GST deadlines and audit fees to be cleared. In case the lockdown gets extended, we will not be able to sustain, unless the government exempts us from paying our EMI and interest along with some relaxation from taxes for a while. The lockdown will also hamper the cash flow in the market that will make the daily transaction difficult”. According to the state government records, over 1.25 lakh industry owners are registered and over 40,000 firms come under the small and medium sized category in state. Explaining how high rents and other expenditure are making it difficult to work, Jaideep Aggarwal, a mobile application developer, said, “I have to pay Rs 35,000 rent, plus salary of 10 people and repayment of Rs 15 lakh loan.” He added that it would be impossible to get business in next three months. “If I default in paying EMI, the bank will make a negative and my financial rating would devastate the business profile of my firm,” he said. The central government must, ensure that any payment default during the lockdown must not be made on the basis of negative financial rating of firm. Sanjay Chamoli, a transport firm owner, said, “After three months of relaxation time, I will be paying EMI and the additional interest on the principal amount so in a nutshell will end up paying more.” The lockdown has also affected the bookings made for Char Dham Yatra which have been cancelled. Abhishek Sharma, president of Ashram Dharamshala Prabandhan Samiti said “Our economy is based mainly on the income we generate during the Yatra. Since maximum bookings have been cancelled, there is no way out for revival of business unless the government makes substantial relaxation from taxes and other bills for a period of one year.” Pankaj Mason, president of Doon Valley Mahanagar Vyapar Mandal, said, “There are clear signs of the lockdown being extended. The business has been affected badly, and we expect worse if the government doesn’t come up with plans to ease the business class. In the times when we have been forced to stop all business operations paying the bills, taxes, salaries will become a challenge”. Meanwhile, industry insiders feel that it would take at least three more months to get back to normal. “But how a mid- sized firm owner is going to pay workforce, rents and other operational cost is a bigger question. The NPA due to medium and small sized factories will go up in next six months,” said Arun Saraswat, a manufacture unit owner in Haridwar. However, there are others like BPO owner Ritesh Arora, who said that everyone has to evolve to remain in business during such tough times. “I have offered work from home to all my staff, similarly others too will have to think out-of-the-box to remain in business.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/lockdown-hurting-small-medium-biz-owners-most/articleshow/75112749.cms||Yogesh Kumar
April 13, 2020||Mysuru||Mysuru: College principal loses Rs 4 lakh in OTP fraud||MYSURU: In an OTP fraud, a pre-university college principal lost Rs 4 lakh after falling prey to the trick of linking Aadhaar number to his bank account. Cybercrime, economic offenses, and narcotics (CEN) police, who launched an investigation, said the victim has an account in a nationalised bank which was recently merged with another nationalised bank. “Recently, he received a call from an unknown number. The caller claimed to be the bank’s branch manager. He informed the principal that his bank account is not linked to Aadhaar number and a One Time Password (OTP) will be sent to his registered mobile number for Aadhaar seeding. The principal shared the OTP he received on his mobile number. The scamsters then withdrew money 18 times from his bank account totalling Rs 4 lakh,” police said. An FIR was registered under various sections of the IPC and Information Technology Act, 2008. Meanwhile, police have requested bank customers not to share OTP with anyone under any circumstances. “Scamsters pose as bank officials and seek OTP in the guise of Aadhaar seeding, providing money under various schemes, postponement of loan instalment, etc. But the public should not share the OTP,” they said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mysuru/college-principal-loses-rs-4-lakh-in-otp-fraud/articleshow/75111811.cms||---
April 13, 2020||Nashik||Runaway man stuck during lockdown returns home||NASHIK: A 26-year-old Dhule man who had left his home in a fit of rage and got stranded in Jain Bhavan in Nashik Road during lockdown finally returned home with the help of his parents on Sunday. Suraj Bijali, senior PI of Nashik Road police station said, “Girish Kunwar was among the people who got stranded in the Nashik Road area after the lockdown was announced on March 24. We had picked up approximately 70 people from the Nashik Road and Upnagar areas and had arranged for their lodging and boarding facility at the Jain Bhavan in Nashik Road.” Subsequently, Kunwar got in touch with his parents. After getting the necessary police permission, his parents travelled to Nashik Road and took him home. In a video released by the police, Kunwar spoke about how he left his house and came to Nashik Road. He also narrated how he lingered on the streets for two days before he was spotted by the police and taken to Jain Bhavan. Suraj Bijali said that there were many people who were left on the streets after the lockdown was announced. There were no buses and autorickshaws. “We came across 70 people who were stranded on the streets of Nashik Road,” Bijali said. “They were taken to the Jain Bhavan in Nashik Road. About 60 people are still in the facility. Kunwar, who was kept in the facility, contacted his parents and informed them about his whereabouts. His parents meanwhile had registered a missing complaint with the Dhule police,” he said. Meanwhile Kunwar’s mother Chhaya could not hold back her tears while thanking the police for taking care of her son at a time when the entire country was in lockdown. Senior police officials of the Nashik Road police station said that many people were left stranded during the lockdown. Police said that they also picked up beggars and kept them at a different facility in the city where they were provided with food, new clothes and health check-ups from time to time. Sham Gohad, co-ordinator of Nashik Road Suraksha Group formed on backdrop of Covid-19 lockdown said, Kunwar had forgotten his cellphone at his residence. Thus, there was no chance that his parents could contact him. After we came to know about his case, we counselled him after which he contacted his parents on Saturday. His parents, who are both teachers, dashed to Nashik Road and took Kunwar home.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/runaway-man-stuck-during-lockdown-returns-home/articleshow/75113704.cms||Santosh Sonawane
April 13, 2020||Coimbatore||Textile exporters stare at losses||COIMBATORE: Export of cotton yarn and fabrics has come down due to the Covid-19 pandemic and the subsequent lockdown, say representatives of a textile export association. Overseas buyers have cancelled 30% of the orders due to the uncertainty unleashed by the pandemic, chairman of the Cotton Textiles Export Promotion Council (TEXPROCIL) K V Srinivasan said. “Manufacturing units and textile retails in the countries that buy cotton yarn and fabrics from India are closed. So, they are cancelling the already placed orders,” he said. “Not only cotton yarn, orders for cotton fabrics and home textiles such as bedsheets and pillow cases have been cancelled.” Exporters are facing problems as buyers are delaying payments against export bills for the shipments already made, Srinivasan said. “Exporters who have entered into forward contracts with banks are now unable to surrender the committed amounts on foreign exchange due to delay in receiving the payments. As a result, they face huge losses as they are forced to either cancel or roll over the forward contracts, which involves penalty and other charges,” he said. Srinivasan said to help the sector tide over the crisis, the Centre should include cotton yarn in the merchandise exports from India scheme (MEIS) and rebate of state and central taxes and levies (RoSCTL) scheme. “Fabrics should be included in the RoSCTL scheme. Cotton yarn currently has no such benefits. Also, to address the issue of liquidity faced by the exporters, all pending claims under the technology upgradation fund (TUF) scheme and the erstwhile rebate of state Levies (ROSL) should be released for made-ups and garments.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/textile-exporters-stare-at-losses/articleshow/75113209.cms||---
April 13, 2020||Vijayawada||New Covid testing lab launched in Kurnool||Tirupati: A Covid-19 testing laboratory was launched on Sunday at the Government General Hospital (GGH) in Kurnool. District collector G Veerapandian inspected the facility at the molecular biology lab at GGH. A trial run of the equipment was carried out in the presence of doctors and paramedic staff suring the inspection. Speaking to reporters, the collector said, “In view of the spike in novel coronavirus cases in the district, we sent proposals to the state government to establish a Covid-19 testing lab at Kurnool GGH, and the state government readily approved the proposals. We procured new Covid-19 testing equipment from Chennai which has the capacity to process 100 samples and produce final test results within one hour. Everyday we can process nearly 1,300 samples to speed up screening in the district.” “Because of the high number of positive cases reported in Kurnool district, all people in containment and high risk zones should voluntarily come forward to get themselves tested. with any symptoms of cold, cough, fever, should not hesitate to get themselves tested,” the collector appealed. Later, the collector inspected lockdown enforcement measures at various places, including Raj Vihar, new and old bus stand areas, Bellary Junction and other places in the city.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/new-covid-testing-lab-launched-in-kurnool/articleshow/75111831.cms||Sandeep Raghavan
April 13, 2020||Lucknow||Wheat procurement to revving up rural economy in Uttar Pradesh||LUCKNOW: UP government on Sunday looked set to lend a thrust to rural economy amid ongoing lockdown period by announcing initiation of wheat procurement within the minimum support price (MSP) from April 15. The decision was taken at a high-level meeting presided over by chief minister Yogi Adityanath at his official residence. Additional chief secretary Awanish Awasthi said, “The chief minister has directed that Mandi system should be further strengthened and social distancing be maintained during wheat procurement.” “We have been informed that 30-40% wheat crop has been harvested and is ready to be sold in the market,” Awasthi said, adding that the government intends to encourage procurement of wheat from farmers’ field itself. “For this, the rules of Mandi and agriculture department may be amended as and when required. Instructions have been issued to district authorities to help farmers in selling their crop to food procurement agencies and Mandi,” he added. Awasthi said flour mills would also be able to directly procure wheat from farmers' fields itself for which necessary changes in rules would be made. The announcement came close on the heels of the agriculture department issuing an order that food production organisations and companies (FPOs and FPCs), with farmer as members, be allowed to sell their produce directly to consumers.The order issued by principal secretary (agriculture), Devesh Chaturvedi said FPOs and FPCs be granted permission to market their produce through doorstep delivery or mobile phone mechanism. “This will allow farmers to market their produce from their fields and the consumers will also get farm produce at a fair price. This will also help in reducing crowd at Mandis allowing better enforcement of lockdown,”Chaturvedi said. In another important decision, the state government decided to encourage online learning process for basic, secondary, vocational and medical education. “The step intends to ensure that education is not hampered due to lockdown. For instance, the CSJM University in Kanpur has put up online content of 225 courses and over 4,000 students have been provided online study material,” he said. Awasthi said it was for the first time that an e-timetable was created for students. “Online education is being started by all universities in the state. Higher education department has been asked to initiate online counselling of students as well,” he added. He said the home department had acted sternly against shopkeepers engaged in black marketing and hoarding in rural areas. “The CM has instructed that alternate arrangement for sale of food material be made in those areas where action has been taken against hoarders so that people do not face problem of food supply,” he said. Awasthi also announced the government’s decision to launch a three-day campaign against illicit liquor. The decision comes a day after a joint enforcement team of excise and police officials seized 160 litres of illicit liquor and registered a case against eight people in Unnao. “The government has received complaints about illicit liquor trade which needs to be curtailed,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/wheat-procurement-to-rev-up-rural-economy-in-state/articleshow/75113537.cms||Pankaj Shah
April 13, 2020||Nashik||Two arrested for stealing alcohol worth Rs 3.26 lakh||NASHIK: Two people were arrested on Saturday by Panchavati police for stealing alcohol worth Rs 3.26 lakh from an exercise department godown. On Sunday, the suspect duo was produced before the city court that remanded them into three-day police custody. The suspects — Mangal Mistry Shinde (19) and Ramdas Bansilal Padekar — were stealing the alcohol from the godown of the state excise department that is near the hostel for tribal students in Panchavati. Police sub-inspector SC Kasarle, investigating officer of the case, said the duo stole the alcohol between April 6 and April 11. “The duo had stolen alcohol worth Rs 3,26 lakh over five days. On Saturday, the watchman noticed some movement inside the godown at around 1.30am following which he informed police. Soon after getting the call, a patrolling team that was near the spot rushed to godown. The duo tried to flee, but they were chased down and nabbed,” Kasarle said. “We are checking if the duo has any other case registered against them or are they involved in any theft or house break-in that took place in the city. They have been arrested under sections 454 (lurking house-trespass or house-breaking), 457 (lurking house-trespass or house breaking by night to commit offence) and 380 (theft in a dwelling house) of the Indian Penal Code,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/2-arrested-for-stealing-alcohol-worth-rs-3-26-lakh/articleshow/75113702.cms||---
April 13, 2020||Nashik||Rural police want mobile toilets in Malegaon to contain movement of people||NASHIK: With the number of Covid-19 patients and those showing symptoms of the respiratory disease increasing every day in Malegaon, the Nashik rural police is having a tough time in keep people restricted to their homes. Police have also realised that majority of the people use public toilets and they have no choice but to step out of their homes to answer nature’s call. Thus, the rural police have brought this issue to the notice of the district administration and sought remedial measures. Superintendent of police (rural police) Arti Singh, recently met with the corporators of the areas concerned where the issue of public toilets was discussed. Strict security arrangements are in place across Malegaon to stop people from venturing out of their homes during the lockdown. Doorstep delivery of groceries and vegetable has also been started to achieve this goal. However, in the absence of toilets in their homes, people are forced to step out for using the public toilets. Taking note of the same, the rural police have brought the issue to the notice of the district administration so that arrangements for mobile toilets can be made in the areas concerned that will eventually help police in restricting the movement of people. "Malegaon has a population of around 9 lakh and nearly 70% percent of the people living here are below poverty line, which well defines the situation of this town and the amenities. Though we try to keep people indoors, people have to come out to use public toilets. On this backdrop, the issue has been brought to the notice of the district administration for necessary remedial measures," Singh said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/rural-police-want-mobile-toilets-in-malegaon-to-contain-movement-of-people/articleshow/75113699.cms||Santosh Sonawane
April 13, 2020||Business||Railways to find ways to deal with advance booking of tickets post April 14||NEW DELHI: Indian Railways is likely to address the issue of tickets booked by passengers post April 14 (Tuesday) in anticipation of resumption of services on priority. Sources said it may suspend booking tickets till there is no clarity from government on resuming of passenger trains. The issue of advance booking reportedly came up at a high level review meeting on transport and supply chain related issues on Sunday. “The decision about extending lockdown and what all services will be allowed and in what scale will be announced soon. But there is hardly any indication of all passenger trains operating for which people have already booked tickets. The railways will have to deal with this,” said a source. Railways continuing advance booking of tickets after April 14 has surprised many considering that another government-owned transport entity, Air India, has suspended booking of tickets till April 30. On Sunday, a media report highlighting how railways’ subsidiary, IRCTC, never returns the convenience charges even in case trains are cancelled kicked off a debate. In a clarification, the railway PSU said it gives the facility of booking e-ticket for train Journeys and one can book these from home, office or even on the go using mobile phone round the clock. “For this facility, IRCTC charges nominal convenience fee which is Rs 15 per ticket for booking non-AC classes and Rs 30 per ticket for AC and first class tickets. A ticket may have a maximum of six passengers and charges are levied just per ticket and not per passenger,” the clarification said. It said for providing this facility, IRCTC has to incur operating expenses maintenance of servers, improvements in customer convenience and user experience such as facility of chatbot, artificial intelligence-based PNR confirmation predictor and capacity enhancement. “There is a fixed expenditure entailed on running these facilities even without booking any ticket. Per day maintenance cost of the ticketing operation is Rs 32 lakh. Annual expenditure on this account is Rs 125 crore,” the statement said. It added when a train is cancelled, the passenger gets full refund of the fare. Convenience fee is not refunded which is nominal and is used for day to day maintenance and upgradation of the ticketing facility.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/railways-to-find-ways-to-deal-with-advance-booking-of-tickets-post-april-14/articleshow/75113825.cms||Dipak K Dash
April 13, 2020||Vijayawada||Don’t relax lockdown, says Kanna||Guntur: BJP state president Kanna Lakshminarayana has urged chief minister YS Jaganmohan Reddy to continue the lockdown in the state without making changes to the existing rules. He said relaxation on the pretext of green zones would make it difficult to contain the spread of the disease. Lakshminarayana, in a letter to the chief minister on Sunday, said that it was foolishness to think about reviving the economic activity at this juncture. “It is unfortunate that chief minister Jagan is thinking about relaxing the lockdown by categorising the state into red-zone, orange zone and green zone even as the number of positive cases are going up. Any decision to relax the lockdown will make the entire state vulnerable,” said Lakshminarayana. He said even the World Health Organisation has praised the decision of Centre to impose country-wide lockdown to tackle the pandemic. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/dont-relax-lockdown-says-kanna/articleshow/75111850.cms||---
April 13, 2020||Bareilly||Carcass of a leopard fished out from river in Moradabad, 6th death in 6 months||Bareilly: Carcass of a one-year-old leopard with its limbs tied up was fished out on Saturday from Kaukhal river that flows through Thakurdwara area of Moradabad district This is the sixth case of a leopard being found dead under unnatural circumstances in the area in the last six months. Till date, no one has been arrested. A panel of experts conducted the autopsy in Moradabad. The big cat's carcass had several injury marks. A bullet was also retrieved from the carcass. Those who conducted the autopsy followed new safety guidelines issued by the forest department by donning protective gear, gloves and face masks due to the coronavirus outbreak. The leopard's carvass was spotted floating in the river by villagers of Madhupuri. They informed police and the forest department. Divisional forest officer Kanhaiya Kumar reached the spot along with his team and fished out the leopard carcass from Kaukhal river “The animal's limbs were tied with a rope and it was apparently beaten to death before being dumped into the river. We have sent the carcass for an autopsy,” the DFO said. Forest officer Kunwar Pal Singh lodged an FIR against unidentified people for killing the animal. Last month, a leopard's carcass was found from Surjannagar area under Madhupuri village. Over the past six months, carcasses of leopards have been found near Munimpur, near Fika river in Surjannagar, Sherpur Bahlin and Lalpur Pipalsana village. All the areas come under Thakurdwara police station||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/carcass-of-a-leopard-fished-out-from-river-in-moradabad-6th-death-in-6-months/articleshow/75112756.cms||Pankul Sharma
April 13, 2020||Vijayawada||Four new nCoV cases in Rayalaseema dists||Tirupati: Four fresh cases of Covid-19 were reported in the Rayalaseema districts of Kurnool, Kadapa and Chittoor on Sunday. According to the official health bulletin, released by the respective district administrations, two new positive cases were reported in Kurnool district, taking the overall number to 84. Kurnool SP Kaginelli Fakeerappa, who inspected the red zones at Bethamcherla and Banaganapalli on Sunday, appealed to the people to cooperate with the district administration and the police department to effectively contain the outbreak. Meanwhile, one new positive case was reported in Kadapa district on Sunday. With this, the total number of Covid-19 patients in chief minister YS Jaganmohan Reddy’s home district went up to 31 on Sunday. Kadapa district administration officials said there were 274 people in isolation at the common and transit quarantines. Meanwhile, a 27-year-old software engineer working at the national capital of New Delhi, who travelled to Tirupati via Chennai on March 24, has tested positive for the coronavirus in Chittoor district on Sunday, taking up the tally to 21. The 27-year-old, who is from Vadamalapeta near Tirupati, has been in home quarantine since March 25. On April 9, after he displayed Covid-19 symptoms, he was shifted along with his grandmother to the government quarantine facility at Tiruchanoor. On Sunday, he tested positive for the virus.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/four-new-ncov-cases-in-rayalaseema-dists/articleshow/75111839.cms||Sandeep Raghavan
April 13, 2020||Mysuru||Six booked for flouting lockdown in Kodagu||MADIKERI: As many as six youngsters found roaming in a jeep in Somwarpet taluk on Sunday afternoon with no reason to be outside their homes were booked by Kodagu police. Residents spotted the six youngsters who were found loitering on the roads, and subsequently asked them what they were doing. They found that they were accompanied by two employees from a private resort in Somwarpet. Suspecting that the youngsters were tourists residing at a private resort, the residents intimated Suntikoppa panchayat development officer Ramesh, who subsequently informed the cops. Ramesh said that the youngsters, all of whom were members of one family, had arrived in Kodagu prior to the lockdown being enforced. The jeep they were travelling in was being driven by Kempayya, an employee at a local private resort. Police have taken all the six youngsters and Kempayya into custody, and have seized the jeep. Cops are probing where the youngsters were staying in Kodagu.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mysuru/six-booked-for-flouting-lockdown-in-kodagu/articleshow/75111487.cms||---
April 13, 2020||Kolkata||Lockdown impact on your Poila Baishakh platter||Kolkata: With lockdown extending beyond Poila Baishakh on April 14, the first day of Bengali calendar year is going to be a low-key affair. The markets, which are running on basic essential supply, may force many to compromise on their culinary delight. Mutton, for instance, is unlikely to evoke gastronomical delight on Bengali platter, not because of soaring price, but because of its supply issue. “The goat supply has suffered a big jolt with hardly any truck coming from Bihar and Uttar Pradesh. Only a few mutton shops could open on Sunday. With depleting stock, we don’t think that we can supply mutton on Monday or Tuesday,” said Abdur Rehman, secretary of Bengal Meat Shop Owners Association. Chicken is the only possible substitute. Price of chicken, which was selling at 130-150/kg, soared to Rs 180-200/kg on Sunday. It is likely to spike a bit with demand steadily soaring on Monday and Tuesday. However, there will be another round of compromise, if one wants to have fine biryani. “With focus being on the supply of basic rice varieties, no one is stocking premium quality Dehradun rice. I couldn’t even book it online,” said Argha Ganguly, a sound engineer from New Alipore. The supply of fish is steady but limited. The supply of some varieties of fish is fluctuating because of transport issues, said S A Maqsood, secretary Howrah Fish Merchants’ Association. So ‘topse fry’, ‘beckti paturi’ might be tall demand for Poila Baishakh platter. “But ‘rohu’ and ‘katla’are in abundance so are some desi varieties. Moreover, prawn is available in good quantity and at good price with big restaurants downing their shutters,” said Amiya Patra of Lake Market. Supply of vegetables has surpassed demand. Most of the vegetables are selling at price quite unthinkable during such time. Most of the vegetables are selling at sub-30 category.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/lockdown-impact-on-your-poila-baishakh-platter/articleshow/75113218.cms||Krishnendu Bandyopadhyay
April 13, 2020||Lucknow||‘People with respiratory problems need to wear mask at home’||Q: What precautions people with respiratory diseases should take while using masks? | Arnav Malhotra A: Any patient who has respiratory problems or diseases should not come in contact with any other person and continuously wear a mask even while at home. If you are living in a hotspot area or visiting a doctor then you need to use N95 mask, for at least 8 hours preferably, and do not touch the top layer of the mask. If not N95, then using surgical mask or cloth one will also do. Make 2-3 folds of a surgical mask and wear it. Also, keep washing or sanitizing your hands | Dr D Himanshu, medicine department and in-charge of infectious diseases unit, KGMU Q: My father is in police. Does he need to wear mask at home as well to protect family members because he interacts with lot of people daily while on and fears that he, although has no sign of any sickness, might be a silent carrier of virus? | Alka Singh A: If he is maintaining social distancing while at work then he doesn’t need to wear a mask regularly at home. He needs to maintain his hygiene. And if he feels like he is going through cough or cold, then he needs to do social distancing at home as well and wear a mask while interacting with family members | Dr D Himanshu, KGMU Q: I read in newspapers that urgent tooth surgeries are being performed only at KGMU and RMLIMS. Is it true and what precautions I need to take if they agree and call me for a surgery? | Shubham Dwivedi A: Yes. Regular tooth surgeries are being done and helpline numbers according to different areas have been issued for patients for consultation by the Indian Dental Association as well. If you are coming in for the surgery then make sure you are wearing proper mask and have a hand sanitizer with you. Carry your medical prescription and any identity proof so that police don’t stop you from visiting the hospital | AP Tikku, head of dental sciences, KGMU||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/people-with-respiratory-problems-need-to-wear-mask-at-home/articleshow/75113553.cms||---
April 13, 2020||Nashik||CBD turns water tanker into disinfectant sprayer||NASHIK: The Cantonment Board Deolali (CBD) has modified one of its water tankers into a jet-based disinfectant sprayer machine which was made operational from Sunday. The CBD has taken this step to spray the disinfectant on all its roads and colonies to combat the spread of Covid-19 in the area. Ajay Kumar, chief executive officer (CEO) said “This is one of the measures we could take to immediately. We had two water tankers out of whiny one we have modified to use it as a disinfectant sprayer. We have added jet sprayers in it which will spray in all the areas of the Cantonment Board.” The board has said that it will spray the disinfectant from its newly modified machine across Deolali in all its eight wards with population of over 50,000 residents. “This machine can spray the medicine in one kilometre in nearly 20 minutes. We began using it today in our market area and Vijay Nagar,” he added. The tanker has the capacity of 9,000 litres which is able to spray continuously for 4.5 hours. The board intends to send the tanker in all areas within its reach. Earlier, the board had started sending a small vehicle in all residential societies and main roads but since it was a small tanker with very less capacity, the board decided to use a bigger vehicle. “We will prefer sending the big vehicle wherever it can go to. In the small areas inside villages and colonies where the tanker cannot reach, we will continue sending small vehicle,” the CEO said. The tanker will spray the disnfectant from 8 am to 6 pm, he added. The total cost involved in the conversion of the water tanker into a disinfectant sprayer was less than Rs 1.5 lakhs, added Kumar.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/cbd-turns-water-tanker-into-disinfectant-sprayer/articleshow/75113705.cms||pragya jain
April 13, 2020||Mangaluru||Waste generation down by 30% but collection from homes suffers||MANGALURU: The Covid-19 lockdown has resulted in reduced garbage generation in Mangaluru, but door-to-door collection of waste has suffered, especially in the interior parts of the city. Residents in many areas complain that the vehicles collecting garbage come once in two or three days, making it difficult for them to keep wet waste at homes. The Mangaluru City Corporation (MCC) seems to be helpless as the workers engaged in waste collection are not able to report on duty due to the lockdown. “Many of our workers have gone on leave and left for their native places. They are not able to return due to the lack of public transport. Meanwhile, we have been striving to continue garbage collection with limited resources,” said MCC environment engineer Madhu Manohar. He said the civic body is unable to complete garbage collection by 10.30am as directed by the government. The shortage of workers at the dumping yard in Pachanady has affected segregation and other work. “Only those workers, who reside in the nearby places, have been reporting regularly. They have been managing the process efficiently,” he said. Manohar said there has been 30% reduction in garbage generation after the lockdown. “We were collecting and transporting an average of 330-350 tonnes of waste from the city per day. Yesterday, the waste collection was 100 tonnes lesser than the average,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mangaluru/waste-generation-down-by-30-but-collection-from-homes-suffers/articleshow/75111027.cms||---
April 13, 2020||Nashik||Nashik: Amid lockdown some schools start admitting students online||NASHIK: The extension of lockdown from April 14 to April 30 has affected the admission process of different English-medium schools across the city. While some schools have decided to wait until the lockdown is lifted to complete the admissions for the upcoming academic year, some have taken the entire process online. “We start admitting students from Std I. Since the parents are unable to visit the school due to the lockdown, we have started accepting the applications online. The parents just need to log on to our website or doing our social media platforms to get the admission details. We are also confirming admissions to students after all the necessary documents and information are place,” principal of a private English-medium school said, adding that in this way they will be able to begin the academic session on time. Before admitting theirs wards to any school the parents also like to visit the school and check the infrastructure. This is also one of the reasons why many schools are waiting for the district administration to lift the lockdown. “Our management is brainstorming about how to go about the admissions this year. We had completed the admission of 25 students in one division before the lockdown was imposed. Admission for the second division is still pending,” an official of a private school said. “Admissions are a tedious process as many English-medium schools not only interview the children, but also their parents. Hence, we will have to wait” he added. Some English-medium schools had registered themselves under the Right to Education Act (RTE) which has also deferred the process of verification of documents till the lockdown is lifted. “We need to wait for the 25% students who will be admitted under the RTE Act before finalising our admission process. For the rest of the students, our online link is open where the parents can register themselves. We will communicate with them once the school reopens,” principal of another English-medium school said. The joint secretary of one of the city-based schools said, “We admit 150 students every year in the entry level grads in the three centres of our school. Normally, the process is complete by May 15.” The admission process begins as early as December and most of the schools freeze the process by March and April. Now, owing to the lockdown due to the Covid-19, parents are also worried about the admission of their wards and are calling the schools to check about the seats available and other formalities. “We have started noting down the contact details of the parents and the details of their children. We are also assuring them that once the lockdown is lifted, we will start contacting them on our own,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/amid-lockdown-some-schools-start-admitting-students-online/articleshow/75113709.cms||pragya jain
April 13, 2020||Nashik||Feed poor and stand by them, says bishop||NASHIK: Lourdes Daniel, the bishop at St Anne’s Cathedral, Jail Road, has asked all priests and nuns to lend a helping hand to the needy and poor who come to the churches seeking for help. The bishop, who is the head of the five districts in North Maharashtra including Nashik, Dhule, Jalgaon, Ahmednagar and Nandurbar, has given the message on the occasion of Easter Sunday. “People who are suffering due to the world wide crisis caused by the outbreak of Covid-19 should be helped. Jesus loves all and there no one should be left in lurch. I appeal everyone to feed the poor and stand by them for it is the due of mankind,” said the bishop. The Christian community celebrated Easter on Sunday without organising any feast in the church but by staying indoors and praying. The parishioners attended online masses conducted by the bishop via online channels and social media. Father Peter D’Souza, priest at St Anne’s Cathedral, said “There are total 34 churches in the five districts under the diocese of the bishop. He sent a message to all of them saying that everyone should celebrate the day of the feast on Easter by taking a pledge to help others out.” St Anne’s Cathedral, where the bishop resides, has been feeding poor by giving them groceries. “People those who require groceries keep coming to our church. We have served hundreds of people since the day of lockdown. We give them rice, oil, pulses and other necessary items,” Father D’Souza told TOI.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/feed-poor-and-stand-by-them-says-bishop/articleshow/75113707.cms||pragya jain
April 13, 2020||Pune||Three more with severe comorbidity succumb to Covid-19||Pune: Three persons, including a Pimpri Chinchwad resident, succumbed to complications associated with novel coronavirus (Covid-19) on Sunday, health officials confirmed. The two others were residents of Somwar Peth and Tadiwala road in Pune. The officials said all the three persons had other underlying medical conditions, such as hypertension, diabetes and obesity. The three deaths have pushed the Covid-19 death toll in the Pune Metropolitan Region to 30 so far. Besides, 21 fresh cases of the infection were recorded in the region on Sunday. With this, the total number of positive cases has gone up to 284. Barring two positive cases registered in Pimpri Chinchwad, the remaining 19 were recorded within the limits of the Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC). Officials said most of them were close contacts of the persons who had earlier tested positive for Covid-19. Most of them are residents of Guruwar Peth, Bhavani Peth, Somwar Peth, Tadiwala road and Kondhwa. “The three patients succumbing to Covid-19-associated complications had various comorbidity. None of them had any history of recent foreign travel or proximity to known infected persons or their close contacts,” district health officer Bhagwan Pawar said. A 58-year-old woman, from Lumbininagar on Tadiwala Road was admitted to the civic-body run Naidu hospital with breathlessness on April 9. As she required tertiary care treatment, she was referred to the Sassoon General Hospital the same day. Her condition kept on worsening, as she had developed acute respiratory distress syndrome (ARDS). She succumbed to the associated complication on Sunday. “She was morbidly obese and had been suffering from sleep apnea. She was also a known patient of diabetes and hypertension,” said a doctor from the hospital. Another victim, a 56-year-old woman from Somwar Peth, was admitted to Sassoon hospital on April 5 after she started experiencing difficulty in breathing. Despite being put on aggressive treatment, her respiratory distress kept on worsening. She succumbed to multi-organ dysfunctions on Sunday. “She was also a known patient of hypertension and diabetes,” the doctor said. A 42-year-old security guard, who lived in Pimpri Chinchwad, fell victim to the Covid-19 associated complications at YCM hospital in Pimpri on Sunday. This was the first Covid-19 casualty recorded in Pimpri Chinchwad. “He was admitted to YCM hospital on April 9. He also had underlying medical conditions,” said Santosh Patil, additional commissioner, Pimpri Chinchwad Municipal Corporation (PCMC). Pimpri Chinchwad municipal commissioner Shravan Hardikar said, “The man had convulsions following which he was admitted to YCM hospital. He was also a patient of liver cirrhosis. He was on ventilator support for three days.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/three-more-with-severe-comorbidity-succumb-to-covid-19/articleshow/75113712.cms||Siddharth Gaikwad
April 13, 2020||Vijayawada||Residents celebrate Easter at home this year||Vijayawada: Easter was celebrated with fervour across the city. With a lockdown in force, the Christian community was confined to their homes to offer special prayers and celebrate. Easter is celebrated on the Sunday following Good Friday, marking the crucifixion of Jesus Christ. “Our sacred writings say that Jesus rose from the dead on the third day after his death on the cross. Marking his sacrifice to mankind, we celebrate Easter with joy. His resurrection is a great message. We should learn to face problems and follow the path shown by Jesus,” said M Krupa Rao a resident of the city. Priests performed special prayers at Gunadala Matha Shrine, St. Peter’s Church in One Town and at St. Paul’s Cathedral on Nirmala Convent Road. A few churches in the city live-streamed the holy services on social media. Bishop Telagathoti Joseph Raja Rao, in his message, asked believers to pray for the cure of people affected by Covid-19. “May uncertainty across the globe due to the coronavirus pandemic come to an end soon. Let us all pray to heal the world,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/residents-celebrate-easter-at-home-this-year/articleshow/75111884.cms||Venu Lanka
April 13, 2020||Vadodara||Vadodara: 11 go for haircut, land in police station with barber||VADODARA: They went out for their routine Sunday morning haircut, but ended up sitting on hot police station benches within minutes of their ‘disobedience’. Panigate police arrested 11 men apart from a barber for flouting police notification and lockdown rules on Sunday. The incident occurred when a police patrolling team was passing from Gajrawadi area and cops suddenly spotted a few locals gathering at the Shalimar Hair Art salon. They immediately stopped the vehicle and entered the salon. Upon questioning the owner who was giving a haircut to his customer, cops understood that the barber was doing a professional service during lockdown. All the 12 persons were immediately arrested for their defiance and were later released on bail. In Rajkot, however, the Durga Shakti team of women police helped the senior citizens in getting their hair and nails trimmed. The team of 15 women cops visited four old-age homes in the city along with professional barbers and helped nearly 70 men and women there. Sejal Patel, police inspector of Mahila police station said, “We helped these senior citizens in hair cut, nail cut, massage, oiling their hair and other things.” All barber shops across Gujarat are shut due to the lockdown.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/cops-snip-at-barber-customers-for-defying-lockdown/articleshow/75111468.cms||---
April 13, 2020||Bareilly||Cop gives lift to Covid ve+ boy, quarantined with 15 colleagues||Bareilly: A cop deployed at police response vehicle (PRV), along with his 15 colleagues, has been quarantined after it came to light that the person he had helped reach home by giving a lift in his four-wheeler later tested positive for Covid-19. The policeman is a driver of the PRV deployed in Bilari area of Moradabad. The emergency '112' vehicle has also been quarantined for the next five days and will be sanitised. Additional superintendent of police (traffic) in Moradabad, Satish Chandra, said, "The cop is a native of Joya in neighbouring Amroha district. He is a PVR driver. On March 21, when he was on way to home in his private car, he found his neighbour’s child heading towards home on foot." Upon seeing the boy, he offered him a lift in his car. Later the boy went to Varanasi, where he was found infected with Covid-19 by the health department on April 8. On Sunday, the policeman came to know about the development. The health department has been informing those who had come in contact with the corona positive boy. The news was enough to put the police department in shock as the driver has come in close contact at least with 15 other policemen over the past 22 days. The health department in Moradabad carried out thermal screening of all 16 policemen and shifted them to a quarantine centre set up in Midtown Club. Besides, their samples have been sent to lab for testing.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/cop-gives-lift-to-covid-ve-boy-quarantined-with-15-colleagues/articleshow/75112762.cms||Pankul Sharma
April 13, 2020||Delhi||Drones to keep a close watch on wholesale markets in Delhi||NEW DELHI: Social distancing is going to be strictly enforced by police in wholesale markets across the city as they have become centre points of crowding. Drones will be used to monitor the movement of buyers and vehicles in the markets. Recently, the Mehrauli Mandi was shifted to the bus depot nearby to create more space for social distancing. On Sunday, entry to the Keshopur and Ghazipur wholesale markets was controlled by cops to prevent retail buyers from crowding the area. Delhi Police spokesperson Mandeep Singh Randhawa said that similar steps would be taken at the Okhla, Sabzi Mandi and Azadpur wholesale markets. “We have laid down a set of guidelines for the wholesalers. The area SHOs have been asked to discuss the guidelines with the local market committees and enforce them,” he added. The monitoring drones will be fitted with a public address system through which police will alert violators. Cases will be registered against those found violating the warnings repeatedly. The sellers have been instructed to keep a distance of about a metre between themselves and mark waiting points for buyers. There will be a fixed number of people allowed in the markets at a point of time. Others will have to wait outside until the first set of people leave. The market associations have to ensure social distancing. The directives were issued after consulting Delhi government. As a safety measure, two inspector-rank officers with a team of local cops and one company of paramilitary forces will be deployed there daily. The authorities have been asked to remove stray animals from the market. It has also been decided to close the markets for at least a day for sanitisation.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/drones-to-keep-a-close-watch-on-wholesale-mkts/articleshow/75113227.cms||---
April 13, 2020||Bhopal||Madhya Pradesh: Identify, isolate, test and treat to fight coronavirus, says CM Shivraj Singh Chouhan||BHOPAL: Chief minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan has instructed the officers to effectively implement the IITT (Identification, Isolation, Testing and Treatment) strategy to fight Corona virus in the state. He said that entry and exit from the infected areas should to be strictly prohibited to check spread of the viral disease. The chief minister while reviewing the situation and arrangements for prevention and treatment of Corona along with senior officials in Mantralaya on Sunday said tt should be ensured that every infected patient is cured. During the review, it was informed that a total of 8,250 people have been tested in the state so far, out of which 6,867 have been reported negative, 564 have reported positive and the reports of 2,931 are pending. Out of 1,158 tests in the state, on April 12, 1,067 reports are negative and 32 have been reported positive while reports of 59 are awaited. The chief minister informed that 564 infected areas of 22 infected districts have been completely sealed. Therefore, it should be ensured that public movement is restricted in these areas. Drones must be used to monitor these areas and FIRs should be registered against those violating the orders. He directed that there should be no shortage of essential commodities in any area and the supply chain should not be broken anywhere. Special care of hotspots should be taken, so that all the necessary items reach there. Principal secretary urban administration department Sanjay Dubey informed that essential goods are being supplied through 400 vehicles in Bhopal. Supply of essential goods through 1,000 loader vehicles has also been started in Indore. The Sanchi parlours are open and hand carts are also being used to supply ration to people. Chief secretary Iqbal Singh Bains informed that the Corona sample collection is continuously increasing. Today the pending samples have been sent by air to Delhi Lab for examination. Also, arrangements are also being made to send sample for test to Kota in Rajasthan. During the review, it was informed that 55 Corona infected patients have been discharged after full recovery. In Indore alone, 7 people were discharged on Sunday. On this, the Chouhan said that such people, who are returning home after beating Corona and recovering, are not less than warriors. My best wishes to all of them. It was informed in the meeting that 7 labs are presently working for Corona virus testing and 14 more will be operational soon. Efforts are on to set up 20 more diagnostic labs. Thus, there will be a total of 34 Corona testing labs in the state. Additional chef secretary Manoj Shrivastava informed that health tests of total of 4.68 lakh labourers have been conducted in rural areas of the state so far. These include labourers from outside the state. As many as 18,174 labourers of various states are residing in the state. Foodgrain and food have been arranged for all these labourers. In addition, ayurvedic, homeopathic and unani medicines are also being distributed to them. Chief minister informed that limited economic activities will be started after April 14 as per the guidelines of the Government of India. MNREGA works will also be started in districts where there are no reports of Corona infection. Apart from this, the work of tendu patta collection, mahua and other forest produce will be undertaken through Forest Produce Committees. Activities like making masks will be undertaken by women.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/identify-isolate-test-and-treat-to-fight-corona-says-chouhan/articleshow/75113555.cms||---
April 13, 2020||Bareilly||Despite doorstep service of daily items, people continue to wander on streets||Bareilly: Despite the district administration and civic authorities taking up adequate measures for the convenience of local residents in the city by providing doorstep delivery of grocery and other household products, local residents in Bareilly were spotted violating Covid-19 lockdown norms by venturing on to the streets and loitering near vegetable markets. On Sunday, a number of such people were spotted at prime locations such as Shyamganj and Delapir. Most of the people gathered outside grocery stores or spotted purchasing fruits, vegetables at prominent vegetable markets in the two areas. Shyamganj vegetable marketplace saw a large number of people since the morning hours. Besides, people were also seen defying social-distancing norms by forming queues outside shops while purchasing essential items. Police personnel deputed in the areas said that people coming out on streets are being intercepted by cops and only those having genuine reason are being allowed while others are given warnings. The situation is particularly troublesome in areas where vegetable markets are located. According to Bareilly police, on Sunday, as many as 16 people were booked under section 188 (disobedience to order duly promulgated by public servant) of IPC, while 49 were arrested for violating lockdown guidelines. Speaking to TOI, senior superintendent of police (SSP) Bareilly, Sahilesh Pandey said, “Police personnel have been deputed across the city to keep a vigil on unnecessary movement. We have also started monitoring the enforcement of lockdown through drones now. We will keep checking even the bylanes and arterial roads or wherever people are assembling. This system enables us to effectively monitor up to seven km distance from our position. Moreover, legal action is being initiated against the violators.” So far, 1,394 people have been arrested by Bareilly police and FIR has been registered against 322 for lockdown violation. As many as 13,905 challans have been issued while a sum of Rs 20.24 lakh has been recovered in fine. Notably, six positive cases of Covid-19 have been reported from the city's Subhash Nagar locality.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/despite-doorstep-service-of-daily-items-people-continue-to-wander-on-streets/articleshow/75112772.cms||Maria Khan
April 13, 2020||Hyderabad||Getting key medicines a challenge for transplant patients||HYDERABAD: Patients who have undergone organ transplants are finding it difficult to obtain immunosuppressants. Missing the dose for even one day can have very severe implications. Medical stores and transplant surgeons have been flooded with calls from patients who are unable to get supply, especially from the districts. Under this condition, many have requested for issuing immunosuppressive medicines in advance at district headquarters. “I have been trying through all known dealers to get these drugs but I am still waiting for a yes. Even surgeons in Hyderabad are trying to work out how to send the medicines but they said that it might take some time,” said Waseem Md, a patient from Karimnagar. “Unlike others, we cannot come outside easily. Due to low immunity levels, we are more susceptible to the virus. In view of the lockdown extension, we request that medicines be issued at least three months in advance and made available in every district headquarters, at Aarogyasri centres or DMHO office so that many of us can take medicine without having to travel much,” said kidney recipient and founder-president of Cheyutha Foundation for Organ Transplants, Bhagavan Reddy. The organisation has over 400 kidney transplant patients in its network. “While these medicines are available with selected distributors in the city, many from districts are unable to come to the city and buy them given the current lockdown. These medicines are usually sent to patients in remote areas by arrangement with dealers who come to purchase medicines from bigger cities. Under the current situation the network is not operating,” explained Dr Sachin Daga, liver transplant surgeon, Maxcure hospitals. Immunosuppressants like Tacrolimus and MMF are commonly used for all transplant patients. “Since these are not normal medications, there are chances of leading to death even if these are not taken for a day. The body tends to reject the transplanted organ and hence it is necessary to take these medicines every single day,” said Dr A Nagesh, heart transplant surgeon, Care Hospitals.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/getting-key-meds-a-challenge-for-transplant-patients/articleshow/75113573.cms||Amrita Didyala
April 13, 2020||Goa||Mass graves, scattered bones, Goa’s traumatic memories of the 1918 Spanish flu||Goa had seven positive Covid-19 cases, now reduced to one, and appears to be better placed statistically than neighbouring states. But this was not the story just over a century ago, in 1918, when the Spanish flu pandemic swept through the land. At the time, many of the state’s villages were severely affected, and as oral history indicates, people dropped dead like flies. It is estimated that between 50 to 100 million died globally in that pandemic. Credible evidence about the devastating impact of the Spanish flu is found in oral traditions that mention dumping of scores of victims’ bodies atop the hill near ‘Bombaikarancho Khuris’ (cross built by Mumbai Goans) at Salvador do Mundo. Then, about two decades ago, a mass grave was discovered at the Batim cemetery, which further buttressed local lore. Salvador do Mundo, a scenic village on the south-eastern rim of the vast Socorro plateau, was one of the many areas where the flu or ‘grippe’, as it was locally called, raged. “There was no place in the cemetery to bury the dead and they were just dumped on the hill nearby and at the spot near ‘Bomoikarancho Khuris’,” says 88-year-old Anna Regina Fernandes, who now resides at Malar in Divar. Her grandmother, Ana Joaquina Rodrigues often recounted the harrowing days of the plague to Fernandes. She also remembers being told that Caridade, her uncle, was thrashed by her granny for volunteering to pull some dead bodies to the hillside. After Regina’s marriage, the desolate site became an unforgettable parcel of her memories, as she was destined to routinely climb the hill to collect cashew fruits. “Our family had bid at the auction and obtained usufructuary rights for three years,” she says. The pile of bones and skeletons on the hill after the plague remained a distressing sight for some time. When Saloikars residing in the metropolis visited their village during summer — a tradition for ‘Bomoikars’ in the past — they would be left deeply shaken by the scattered remains of victims. After returning to their ‘kudd’ (residential club) in Mumbai, they quickly gathered funds to build a cross at the site. “A plaque on it credits the memorial cross to residents of the Saloi club in Mumbai,” a villager said. The skeletal remains were also placed in the well near the chapel, opposite the cross. With time, memories and trauma associated with the pandemic faded. In 2011, Marius Fernandes, a local, and some of his friends, decided to unveil a few things to the younger generation. “We held a prayer service and a brief cultural programme (at ‘Bomoikarancho Khuris’) to create awareness about the victims,” says then parish priest of nearby Pomburpa church, Fr Santan Carvalho. In Batim, workers digging near the church cemetery in December 2001 hit upon a mass grave reviving memories of the pandemic and villagers’ sufferings. The bones were scattered all over, even up to at a depth of 1.2m. A few villagers still recall what their elders’ told them. “My father (Miguel) would narrate to me how his grandfather Joao Caitano described what happened. The village was badly affected and people died like flies,” says Agnelo Correia, a progressive farmer living in the neighbourhood of the cemetery. At the time, a local newspaper had reported the finding. “My brother died, many died, only a few, including myself were saved,” an elderly villager Bosco Braganza was quoted in the report. Braganza was barely one when he was afflicted by the flu. The remains were later given a quiet burial, but the memories will not fade any time soon.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/mass-graves-scattered-bones-goas-traumatic-memories-of-the-1918-spanish-flu/articleshow/75113572.cms||Paul Fernandes
April 13, 2020||Kolhapur||One booked for abusing governor health official||KOLHAPUR: The Shahapur police on Sunday booked a man for allegedly abusing an on-duty health official while screening the locals at Tardal village. According to the complainant, he called his female colleague asking her the reason for not attending the duty. Following which her son approached the complainant and abused him stating that he should not call his mother for screening as his family is afraid of coronavirus spread. Police have booked the man under several sections of IPC including section 353 (Assault or criminal force to deter public servant from discharge of his duty), 323 (Punishment for voluntarily causing hurt), 504 (Intentional insult with intent to provoke breach of the peace), 506 (Punishment for criminal intimidation), 188 (Disobedience to order duly promulgated by public servant) and section 269 (Negligent act likely to spread infection of disease dangerous to life) of IPC.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolhapur/one-booked-for-abusing-guv-health-official/articleshow/75112763.cms||---
April 13, 2020||Goa||Goa: Door-to-door 3-day survey begins today||PANAJI: The state government will begin its three-day, door-to-door community survey for identifying persons with Covid-19 symptoms from Monday. “The survey is being carried out in the interest of the people. At present, we have only seven positive cases of which five have recovered. But we want to ensure that no person with the symptoms is at home and not taking things seriously,” a senior officer said. While announcing the survey nearly a week ago, chief minister Pramod Sawant had said that based on it the government would “be able to declare Goa as a safe zone vis-à-vis Covid-19”. “If we find any person suspected to be infected with coronavirus, we will conduct a test,” senior officer said. Around 700 trained government employees, teachers of government and government-aided schools, booth-level officers and ANM staff will go house-to-house asking six questions prepared by the health department, the officer told TOI. Besides details like name of the head of the family, address and contact numbers, the survey will also seek to known if any family member is suffering from flu-like symptoms or has a travel history since February 15, the officer said. Questions have to be answered in the yes or no format. Sawant appealed to the people to cooperate with the survey team and requested them to provide all details without hiding anything, including of people living in rented accommodation. The surveyors will be provided with face masks and sanitisers and have been told to maintain safe distance and not enter houses. The government plans on completing the survey within three days, but has kept one extra day in case of any problem that may be encountered during its completion. The report will be compiled on Thursday or Friday. The state government held two rounds of training for master trainers and others to brief them on how the survey is to be conducted. The survey will be conducted under the North and South Goa collectors with 17 incident commanders, one for each taluka and five others for the bigger municipal areas of Panaji, Mapusa, Margao, Vasco and Ponda. Three teams will be constituted at the booth-level officer level consisting of two persons, the officer said There are 1,560 polling booths in the state, and this survey, which is along the lines of the one carried out in Rajasthan’s Bhilwara district, will be conducted booth-wise.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/door-to-door-3-day-survey-begins-today/articleshow/75113574.cms||---
April 13, 2020||Vijayawada||Is demarcating red zones enough?||Guntur: Sixty-seven-year old Amanullah (name changed) is a muezzin at a mosque in old Guntur. He started working as a mosque caretaker two years ago after he developed heart complication and was unable to keep his job at Autonagar. He earns Rs 3,000 from the mosque committee. He lives with his three sons and their children in a small house, which accommodates nearly 15 people. Life is full of joy for the poor family of Amanulla despite their low incomes. They never yearned for more comforts or thought of moving out of their congested house as their economies did not allow them. The entire family comprising four men, four women and seven children depend on two washrooms. But life changed when Amanullah was shifted to the hospital and tested positive for Covid-19 last week. Shockingly, 13 of his 15-member family tested positive in next few days. Amunullah was one of the primary contacts of a person who attended the gathering at Nizamuddin Markaz. With his age and co-morbidities, Amanulla had become an easy prey to the virus. At least three of the positive patients were children aged between 8 and 12 years-old. They are all getting treated at Covid-19 designated hospital near China Kakani. Similar is the story of a Delhi returnee who lived with nearly 10 of his family members in a small four-room house in one-town area. Six of the family tested positive for Covid-19 and reports of the others were awaited. Nearly 50 positive cases for covid-19 were from one-town area of Guntur city. A majority of them are mechanics and daily wage workers in Autonagar. High density of population has become bane for many people who have contracted Covid-19. Families with nearly 10-15 members living in a common space due to economic reasons is a common feature in one town area. Experts feel that district administration should explore alternatives to contain the spread of the disease instead of following the fixed red-zone formula in such areas. “This is high time for the administration to think of other options in one-town area. People are already living in small spaces here and confining them to houses might boomerang,” said noted pulmonologist Dr Singaraju Saikrishna.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/is-demarcating-red-zones-enough/articleshow/75111896.cms||Samdani MN
April 13, 2020||Pune||30 nurses quarantined after in-charge tests positive||Pune: Thirty nurses working with a private hospital in Pune were quarantined after the incharge-nurse tested positive for the Covid-19 on Saturday night. The nurse had returned to work two days ago after a week's casual leave. She is a resident of Kasarwadi. Her family members and other close contacts are also being traced and quarantined.This is the second case in Pune wherein a health worker was found infected with the contagion. A junior doctor at private hospital in Rasta Peth had also tested positive for Covid-19 a week ago. Both had no history of recent foreign travel or any proximity to known infected persons or their close contacts."Our in-charge nurse had a mild cold and cough, hence we tested her as a precautionary measure. Her throat swab tested positive for Covid-19. We have put 30 nurses, who she had come in contact with, under observation at our nursing hostel," the hospital's medical director said. Her work profile is more of administrative work. She is not involved in patient-care. Her main job is to oversee work of other nurses. She ensures duties,leaves and shifts of other nurses working under her. Again, she is with general ward of the hospital and not involved in the isolation ward where we treat Covid-19 positive patients, he added.The hospital authorities also tested six other patients she had briefly come in contact with. "All tested negative . We will also test our quarantined nurses," he said.The nurse is currently being treated at the hospital's isolation ward. "She only had mild symptoms. She is on full diet and recovering," he said.The medical director said they we keeping an eye on every staff who has flu-like symptoms.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/30-nurses-quarantined-after-in-charge-tests-positive/articleshow/75113716.cms||Umesh Isalkar
April 13, 2020||Bareilly||Kheri DM issues final warning for Jamaat attendees||Bareilly: Lakhimpur Kheri DM Shailendra Singh has issued a final warning to members of Tablighi Jamaat who might be hidden in the district, and to residents who might be sheltering them, asking them to contact the district administration on their own within 24 hours, threatening to slap NSA against them otherwise. As per intelligence reports based on mobile surveillance of suspects, nearly two dozen Tablighi Jamaat members who had attended the Delhi event are hiding in the district. Three attendees of the Delhi congregation tested positive for Covid-19 on April 6. They were among 12 attendees who were located in a mosque in Dhaurahra town. After the discovery, district administration sealed the town forcing nearly 20,000 residents to stay at home and depend on home delivery to avail their daily needs, like milk, vegetables etc. TJ attendees were also tracked down to Palia and other areas of the district. Police, with the support of intelligence agencies, is rigorously searching mosques and localities of the minority community. Hotels and guest houses have been thoroughly checked on numerous occasions to ensure no one is hiding there. “At a video conference, all SDMs were given clear instruction by the district magistrate that if TJ attendees don’t come forward on their own, strict action like slapping of NSA should be initiated against them, as well as people who give them shelter. We have made announcements and are also sharing this information via social media, speaking to religious leaders and trying to convince the masses that locating the Covid suspects is extremely important for the safety of every resident of the district,” said Dhaurahra SDM Sunandu Sudhakaran. He further said, “We have ensured proper treatment for all patients at the medical facilities. By coming forward, they will help themselves while we ensure their proper treatment and security at our Covid-19 centres.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/kheri-dm-issues-final-warning-for-jamaat-attendees/articleshow/75112776.cms||Kanwardeep Singh
April 13, 2020||Kolhapur||Admin arranges for doorstep delivery of essentials for sr citizens, PWDs||KOLHAPUR: The nationwide lockdown introduced to contain the spread of coronavirus has made things difficult for senior citizens and people with disabilities (PWDs). Besides the fact that they cannot go out to buy essentials, the lockdown has compounded their woes as no person is coming forward to help them. At such a crucial time, the district administration has stepped in to help the senior citizens and PWDs by activating six helpline numbers where in the people concerned can call and place their list of essentials, food and medicines. The PWDs and the senior citizens are being made aware of the helplines either on social media or through public announcements. The helpline numbers are the office or the contact numbers of the officials monitoring the system. Everyday, the district administration is receiving around 300 calls from PWDs and senior citizens. Dipak Ghate, the nodal officer said, “We have appointed teachers who work in schools exclusively for the PWDs to supply the essentials to those who cannot move out, particularly the senior citizens and those who have disabilities.We have also got the local volunteer groups onboard and provided them with food free of cost for distribution among those who cannot afford to pay. A similar system is in place in other part of the district.” “In some cases, we are also getting calls from those who have arrived from other cities and put in home-quarantine. We provide them the ration at their doorstep. Our counsellors are also attending to many PWDs and senior citizens,” said Ghate. Shekhar Jadhav, a resident of Shaniwar Peth who is completely blind, had dialed up the helpline number on Sunday morning for food and some medicines. When the teachers reached out to him to deliver the essentials, they found that Shekhar was not in a position to pay the money. They provided him the ration supplies, a food packet and the medicines he had ordered for free of cost. Moreover, the teachers reached out to the local volunteers and requested them to provide him food regularly, to which the volunteers readily agreed. NGO Feeding India has joined hands with the district team. The organisation arranges for the food and ration supplies need by the PWDs, senior citizens and poor people. Ghate said that aim was not to let any person in a disadvantaged position to go hungry because of the lockdown. The local associations of the PWDs too have been taken onboard to reach out to all the people with disabilities in the district. There are more than 30,000 PWDs in the district.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolhapur/admin-arranges-for-doorstep-delivery-of-essentials-for-sr-citizens-pwds/articleshow/75112777.cms||---
April 13, 2020||Goa||With ‘bare minimum staff’, Goa govt offices to open on Wednesday||PANAJI: State government offices, which are set to open on Wednesday, will function with bare minimum staff, and heads of departments (HoDs) have been empowered to decide who is to be called in to work. “We will open offices on Monday so that cleaning and sanitation are taken up,” said chief minister Pramod Sawant, adding that 50% of state government staff are already working on the field, and do not need to go to office. The ones who are already working are engaged in various Covid-19-related duties such as monitoring camps and persons who have been quarantined, ensuring supplies of essentials, etc. Late on Sunday, the state government issued a circular stating that all HoDs must ensure employees are called to office on alternate basis in such a way that not more than 50% of the total staff strength shall be at office at any given time — the rest will work from home. It also said that those who work from home must be available on telephone and electronic modes of communication at all times. “They should attend office if called for and if any exigency of work demands,” it says. Sawant said that staffers of departments that need to be functional — and not all government staff — will be asked to join duty. Departments that “need to be functional” include those like civil supplies and health, Sawant said. “Staff of departments such as art and culture and others that don’t have work to be executed won’t be called in.” Sawant said that social distancing will strictly be maintained in government offices, and on April 15, proper guidelines in this regard will be issued. Later, the government circular said that all departments must ensure hand sanitisers, handwash, basins and running water supply, and encouraged employees to use masks. The CM, when asked about public transport for government employees to go to work, said, “Buses will ply during office hours in the morning and evening”. While government offices will open, departments have been requested to instruct staff to remain home if they have cough, cold, fever, or shortness of breath, and to take appropriate medical care through government doctors. The late-night circular is also applicable to offices engaged in essential and emergency services, and shall remain in force till April 30.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/with-bare-minimum-staff-govt-offices-to-open-on-wed/articleshow/75113578.cms||Murari Shetye
April 13, 2020||Pune||Lonely senior citizens struggle to beat lockdown blues||Pune: The lockdown to fight Covid-19 has come up as a major worry for Suhas Bhome, a senior citizen living a lonely life in Kothrud. At the age of 70, Bhome needs to run from pillar to post for finding cooked food. No children, non-availability of domestic helps, closed eateries and lack of resources are making it difficult for him to manage the daily meals. Bhome is one among many such senior citizens facing the same problem during the lockdown period in a city that has over the years earned the sobriquet of pensioners’ paradise. Social organisations and local groups are the lone lifeline for the likes of Bhome. “Since going out should be avoided in these days, one has to make sure that enough material is stored in the house. But storage of food is a big problem for me due to the lack of equipment like a refrigerator. Being a senior citizen, I have very limited options of eating outside. So I need to go out for getting vegetables and other stuff, which have be used that day itself,” said Bhome. Bhome, who suffered an injury to his right hand, said he has no option to somehow manage the things during the lockdown. He said asking relatives or other well-wishers to come everyday for solving the issue was also not possible due to limitations of travels. Medha Kulkarni, a former BJP MLA from the Kothrud area, said they have formed a federation of senior citizens’ clubs. Members of these clubs are in touch with each other to resolve the issues of these senior citizens. “The arrangement of food and other basic needs is being done. It has been made on the demand and supply basis. We get the details about the requirements and food is arranged,” she said. According to the senior citizens’ federation, the two major concerns are food and medicines. “Our volunteers, in association with some youngsters, are reaching out to these people for all help, including food and medicines. Those who are living alone in their homes need special attention. We have started a tiffin service. Nearly 7,000 tiffins have been made available,” said Shriram Bedkihal, a member of the federation for the senior citizens clubs. As per the federation, the city has around 200 such clubs with each having a membership of 300-500 people. The P\population of senior citizens in the city, including those who are not members any club, is around 3 lakh. “The senior citizens have restrictions on venturing out in these days and it is the need of the hour. The young people are helping us out them during such tough times. But in some situations, we need go out. This should be allowed. At the same time, the authorities should entertain the real emergencies,” said Alaknanda Bhanu of the Erandwana Senior citizens club.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/lonely-senior-citizens-struggle-to-beat-lockdown-blues/articleshow/75113719.cms||Shyam Sonar
April 13, 2020||Bhopal||Tipplers fall for home delivery of booze, conned||Bhopal: Ever since the lockdown was enforced and wine shops ordered closed along with other shops, tipplers in the city are struggling to arrange for their daily booze quota. Amid this, bootleggers are having a free run and selling the prized tipsy drink for double and triple the MRP. Business of illegal liquor sale has flourished and city police have registered around 80 cases against bootleggers at various police stations since March 22, the day the lockdown order was enforced. The online fraudsters are also not behind to exploit the opportunity. In a new trend of online fraud, a message showing a list of liquor brands with their rate for home delivery is being widely circulated on social media platforms. When people call on the number the conmen ask them to deposit money through Google Pay and other online payment wallets with a promise that the order would be booked delivery would be made at their doorstep within half an hour. Many tipplers were conned by the fraudsters. When the message came to the knowledge of excise department, they have filed a complaint with cybercrime branch recently. Cybercrime branch issued an advisory in this regard on Sunday cautioning people not to fall in the trap of online liquor delivery messages. Police have appealed people not to share or forward such messages. ASP (cybercrime) Sandesh Jain said the assistant district excise officer Om Prakash Jamod in his complaint said some conmen are circulating the message in the city by the name of ‘Discovery Wines’ and others offering home delivery of liquor bottles booked online. The message contains list of liquor brands with their respective rates. When a person contacts on the phone numbers mentioned in the message he is asked to deposit the amount in their account through Google Pay and other online payment wallets and is assured of delivery of liquor bottle at their doorstep. Jain said that Jamod in his complaint stated that online sale of liquor is a criminal offence under the MP Excise Act and asked police to take necessary action in the matter. Jain said when police verified the numbers mentioned in the message they were found to be of Uttarakhand and Jharkhand. He said that these messages are being circulated by online fraudsters to exploit people. Police have issued advisory in this regards cautioning people not to fall for such messages.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/tipplers-fall-for-home-delivery-of-booze-conned/articleshow/75113576.cms||Sudeept Mishra
April 13, 2020||Pune||Six teams in Pune to handle cremation of Covid -19 patients||PUNE: The Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) has set up special teams to cremate the bodies of deceased Covid-19 patients. Six teams, which will have vans, dedicated staff for cremation and PPE kits will be assigned to taking the bodies from the hospitals to crematoriums. They will also take the responsibility of sanitation and disinfection of the cremation facilities. Civic officials said the decision was taken after the cremation of two bodies was delayed due to non- availability of PPE kits for the civic staff at the cremation ground. The relatives had to wait for four hours for the last rites. “Ward officials were expected to coordinate with the teams,provide manpower and the vehicle for transportation of the body. But a miscommunication between the officials at these decentralised offices and hospitals led to the delay,” a senior civic official said. Senior officials had to intervene to make sure that the kits reach the ambulance. “The new system introduced by the PMC will make sure that the cremation takes place without hassles. The members will know the standard operating procedure for the cremation,” Shrinivas Kandul, head of PMC's electrical department, said. The civic administration has decided to reserve the crematoriums for such cases. These teams will make sure that the dead bodies are taken to the nearest facility. Gas crematoriums are to be used. The guidelines from the Union and state government for cremating the bodies will be followed. Those handling such cases must have minimum contact with the body. The team members must have fully covered protective body gear, face mask, hand gloves, shoes and sanitisers.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/6-teams-to-handle-cremation-of-covid-19-patients/articleshow/75113720.cms||---
April 13, 2020||Bareilly||Youth shoots father dead over property||Bareilly: A 24-year-old youth allegedly shot dead his father while he was sleeping on Sunday morning. Thereafter, he fled. Police said a property dispute is said to be the reason for the murder. The murder took place in Chandausi in Sambhal district. The deceased's elder son registered an FIR against his younger sibling. Dharmpal Singh,SHO of Chandausi police station, said they came to know that there was a property dispute between 24-year-old Sher Singh and his father, Durjan Singh, which resulted in the murder. “We learnt that the accused did not have a cordial relationship with his father ever since Sher Singh's wife had complained against her father-in-law, alleging that he had molested her. We are investigating all the angles in the case and conducting raids to nab the accused who is absconding," he said. The SHO said they had registered an FIR against the accused under IPC section 302 (murder).||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/youth-shoots-father-died-over-property/articleshow/75112782.cms||Pankul Sharma
April 13, 2020||Kolhapur||Provide facilities for setting up Covid centres: District collector||KOLHAPUR: District collector Daulat Desai on Thursday asked officials concerned from all talukas to search for one or two big hospitals where Covid-19 centre can be set up. The officials were also asked to provide all the necessary facilities for setting up these centres. During the meeting on Sunday, Desai spoke to chief officers of municipal councils, block development officers, tehsildars and regional officers. Kolhapur zilla parishad’s CEO Aman Mittal, resident deputy collector Bhau Galande, district disaster management cell’s coordinator Sanjay Shinde, district civil surgeon BC Kempi Patil, district health fficer Yogesh Sale, deputy collector Shravan Kshirsagar also attended the meeting. The officials were also asked by Desai to confirm the number of Tablighi cases and complete their health check-up. "Those who came in closed contact with them should also be checked," Desai said. He added, "The administration is still getting complaints that people from other cities are coming back to their native places. Such individuals should be strictly put under institutional quarantine. All the quarantine facilities and shelter homes should have ask the facilities provided by the state government." The officials were also asked to monitor the facilities provided by the sugar mills to their workers and file a report on the same. According to Desai, the village committees that are yet to submit the data of the individuals having travel history should submit the same at the earliest. "We should carefully monitor the tracing history of the positive patients so that all the possible infected cases could be traced at the earliest. You should also search for places where additional institutional quarantine facility can be set up," Desai said. Desai has also asked the officials to ensure that all agriculture-related work is being carried out smoothly.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolhapur/provide-facilities-for-setting-up-covid-centres-dist-collector/articleshow/75112783.cms||---
April 13, 2020||Goa||Goa plans walk-in kiosks to widen testing: Vishwajit Rane||PANAJI: The state is taking the fight against Covid-19 a notch higher by introducing widespread testing in its bid to be free of the virus. Health minister Vishwajit Rane said the state is set to introduce sample collection kiosks or walk-in kiosks at different locations to increase scope of testing samples. “As the number of Covid-19 cases in the state has dropped from seven to two, our aim is to make Goa free of Covid-19. (For this) a robust detection method, which is in sync with the vision of our Prime Minister Narendra Modiji, will be followed,” Rane told TOI on Sunday. Goa has done well in its fight against Covid-19 vis-à-vis other states, but its scope of testing samples has been low. As of Sunday, the total number of samples tested stood at 398. The health minister, however, added that the new concept would be adopted only after discussing it with the Centre and that kiosks would be set up in accordance with guidelines issued by the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR). The aim is to reach out to and test more citizens and this will be achieved by placing sample collection centres at different locations, Rane said. “People will be encouraged to come out and give their samples. It could be factory workers, labourers or people who may have entered the state,” Rane said, while claiming that Goa’s testing kiosks were a new concept. Only suspects and immediate and high-risks contacts of Covid-19 persons have been tested so far. A health official said they have been testing samples in line with the protocol issued by the Union ministry of health and family welfare. With the virology laboratory set up at GMC, the state is expected to test more samples. A few days ago, a private laboratory, SRL Diagnostic in Porvorim, was certified as a collection centre enabling public to get tests done privately. Meanwhile, four suspects were admitted to the in isolation ward at Goa Medical College (GMC) on Sunday while 27 test reports came negative, the health bulletin released by the Directorate of Health Service (DHS) stated. Of the seven positive cases detected in Goa, five — four on Saturday — have been declared cured by the DHS. All five are being monitored at the 14-day quarantine. Twenty-five samples have been sent for testing and as many as 63 persons have been placed under home quarantine besides four being kept in facility quarantine. Rural sub-health centres to start soon Health minister Vishwajit Rane said that within the next 72 hours six rural medical dispensaries and sub-health centres will be made functional with standard operating procedures (SOP) in view of the Covid-19 threat. “This has been done as most people living in far flung areas have difficulties in visiting health centres due to the lock down,” Rane said. Rural dispensaries of Quepem, Netravali in Sanguem, Agonda in Sattari, Pali in Sankhali and Keri in Sattari will become operational. Also, immunisation session for children and ante-natal clinics will start from Monday. “The SOPs will be put in place for functioning of these services with strict protocol in place,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/state-plans-walk-in-kiosks-to-widen-testing-vishwajit/articleshow/75113585.cms||Bindiya Chari
April 13, 2020||Pune||Cops form 44 special teams so that Baramati residents remain indoors||PIMPRI CHINCHWAD: The Baramati police has set up a service to ensure home delivery of essential goods so that people do not venture out of their homes during the lockdown. The town has seen a rise in the number of patients testing positive for Covid-19 recently. Audambar Patil, senior inspector of the Baramati city police station, said, “The district collector inaugurated the service called Baramati 44 yesterday. The entire town has been divided into 44 sectors. Each sector has a team including a police officer, the local corporator, civic employees and 10 volunteers.” Each sector is expected to cover 350 houses, with one volunteer covering 35 houses. The volunteers will collect a list of requirements from every home. The list will be conveyed to the control room after which the goods will be delivered by volunteers, explained Patil. “We are providing a fruit and vegetable kit for Rs200, which can last a family for a week. Residents can order grocery items, LPG gas cylinders, milk and other goods too. These will be home delivered so they do not have to venture out of their homes except for emergencies”, said Patil. Five police officers have been appointed to monitor the teams. A special team has been created to help the volunteers in case they face any trouble. All police staff has been provided orange identity cards and are called ‘Corona Warriors’. Corporators, civic employees and volunteers have been provided pink identity cards and are called ‘Corona Soldiers’. Nurses and other hospital staff have been provided white id cards and are called ‘Corona Fighters’. “Only Corona warriors, soldiers and fighters are allowed to venture out. If anyone else is found on the roads then strict action will be taken against them. We will also deploy drones to keep a watch on roads to prevent overcrowding,” said Patil.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/cops-form-44-special-teams-so-that-baramati-residents-remain-indoors/articleshow/75113723.cms||Siddharth Gaikwad
April 13, 2020||Nashik||NMC to conduct health survey using weblink||NASHIK: The Nashik Municipal Corporation (NMC) has decided to conduct health survey of the citizens through weblink (covid19.nmc.gov.in) and also introduced a mobile helpline number for those who need information and guidance regarding coronavirus. Health officials and doctors from the civic body will answer all the queries received through the helpline number: 9821188189. The fresh initiatives have been taken by the civic administration to curb the spread of Covid-19. "We will send a web link through bulk messages to the city residents for conducting the health survey. The residents will have to click on the link given in the message and fill the information related to their health," a civic official said. "This will help us in reaching out to maximum number of people in a short time and will get all necessary information about Covid-19. It is daunting to reach out to all the citizens physically. Hence, this survey through a mobile link will help the civic health department in gathering all the necessary information regarding the citizens’ health," he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/nmc-to-conduct-health-survey-using-weblink/articleshow/75113231.cms||Tushar Pawar
April 13, 2020||Bhopal||Frustrated farmers uproot vegetable plants||Bhopal: Unable to get proper price for their produce, farmers in Sehore district have started uprooting the tomato and brinjal crops to prepare their farms for the next sowing season. Vegetable farmers have been adversely hit by the lockdown. Bhopal serves as the largest market for the farmers of neighbouring Sehore. “Vegetable prices are rising, but there is no shortage ... Large quantities of vegetables are rotting in farms, simply because the supply chain was broken due to the lockdown,” said Mohammad Idris, a wholesaler at Bhopal Mandi, adding that Sehore farmers have not been able to bring their produce to Bhopal mandi. Raj Patidar, a farmer said, “The scene at present is uncertain. We do not know how long this lockdown will have to continue. The government authorities have also not helped in supplying the produce to the market. So, I have decided to throw the ready crops.” A vendor selling tomatoes on a handcart said, “I leave early in the morning to to reach the small farms on the outskirts of the city and buy these tomatoes ... I return by 7am, before cops go on a strict vigil.” With the temperatures rising, seasonal vegetables will less shelf life like tomatoes, brinjals, bottle guard, coriander and fruits like water melon and musk melon have started rotting in the fields.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/frustrated-farmers-uproot-vegetable-plants/articleshow/75113584.cms||---
April 13, 2020||Hyderabad||Telangana: Govt uses mapping tech to operate mobile rythu bazars||HYDERABAD: Department of Agricultural Marketing, in collaboration with National Remote Sensing Centre (NRSC) are tracking mobile Rythu Bazars to cater maximum number of locations during lockdown. Only after mapping, the government will send the vehicles based on the requirement of people and reach most of the locations in the city compared to earlier, when vehicles were not tracked. “The idea is to restrict the number of people coming out. After seeing the crowd at vegetable markets and Rythu Bazars, the mobile Rythu Bazars were pressed into service and the vehicles are now being tracked,” said B Janardhan Reddy, secretary (agriculture). The government has reached out to drivers, whose vehicles can be tracked after they enter their details. There are 225 vehicles, which cater 500 locations. Out of the total vehicles, 95 vehicle drivers have registered and can be tracked. “More number of drivers are coming forward with every passing day to join the ingenious solution. The ingenious soultion to deliver vegetables was possible with the help of NRSC,” said Major Shiva Kiran who is part of the project. The vehicle tracking platform solution is based on Bhuvan online mapping portal. With the help of trackers, the government has the record of locations visited, distance travelled, number of stops and the residential localities covered by mobile Rythu Bazars. “With a daily data base. we can ensure all the places are covered and there is no scarcity of vegetables,” said an official from Department of Agricultural Marketing.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/govt-uses-mapping-tech-to-operate-mobile-rythu-bazars/articleshow/75113630.cms||Nabinder Bommala
April 13, 2020||Pune||Pimpri Chinchwad beer shop owner, staffer held||PUNE: The Pimpri Chinchwad police on Saturday arrested a beer shop owner and his employee for operating during the lockdown. The police have recovered about 480 beer bottles worth Rs40,000 from the shop. Superintendent of police (Pune Rural) Sandip Patil suspended a constable for his involvement in the illegal activity. “We raided the shop and found the owner and his employee inside,” the officer said. Constable in net with 2 gutka suppliers The Nayarangaon police on Sunday arrested a Shirur police constable for helping two men illegally supplying gutka and seized the banned substance, totally worth Rs30,000, from them. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/pimpri-beer-shop-owner-staffer-held/articleshow/75113724.cms||---
April 13, 2020||Bhopal||Rabi procurement from Apr 15, states asked to give relief in Mandi Tax: Tomar||Bhopal: Union minister for agriculture and farm welfare Narendra Singh Tomar said that procurement of Rabi crops will begin in all states from April 15 as harvesting in 80% area is complete. The Union government has asked states to provide relief to farmers from mandi tax, he said. "Procurement of crops will begin from April 15 and we have asked the state governments to purchase farm produce within 90 days. We have also asked the state governments to provide relief to the farmers in mandi tax so that produce in the warehouse could be sold directly to the buyers," said Tomar. The Union minister said that Food Corporation of India and NAFED have been asked to procure the farm produce by maintaining social distancing. The government will also provide relief to the farmers associated with horticulture who are facing crop loss due to lockdown. "Our priority is to save life first. But, we are also trying to purchase every grain from the farmers and providing relief to the farmers associated with horticulture. We have asked the state government to provide relief to the farmers on falling prices of perishable crops during lockdown and take advantage of market intervention scheme to help the farmers," said Tomar. The state governments had also expressed concern over the low prices of horticulture crops in their states. Following this, the central government ensured remuneration prices for the soon-to-be-harvested agricultural and horticultural crops. Under the Market Intervention Scheme (MIS), perishable agricultural and horticultural items can be procured by the state governments, which are spoiled quickly. The states are to procure at a fixed market intervention price for a certain period or until prices stabilize above market price, which will be compensated by the government to the extent of 50% of the losses by the states to fruit and vegetables farmers, he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/rabi-procurement-from-apr-15-states-asked-to-give-relief-in-mandi-tax-tomar/articleshow/75113590.cms||---
April 13, 2020||Nashik||Positive patients to be separated in three categories depending on seriousness||NASHIK: The district administration and the Nashik and Malegaon municipal corporations have identified 49 different facilities where 4,059 Covid-19 positive patients can be treated depending on the seriousness of symptoms. “As per the sta e government’s guidelines, Covid-19 patients will be categorised as mild, moderate or severe and shall be treated in separate facilities to ensure judicious use of resources and manpower,” resident deputy collector Bhagwat Doifode said. Accordingly, the three different agencies – the Nashik Municipal Corporation (NMC), the Malegaon Municipal Corporation (MMC) and the rural health department – have segregated their treatment facilities in a manner that patients are given optimal treatment. The facilities have been classified as Covid Care Centres, Dedicated Covid Health Centres and Dedicated Covid Hospitals. Positive Covid-19 patients with mild symptoms, including fever, upper respiratory tract illness and influenza-like illness, will be treated at Covid Care Centres. There are, currently, 3,033 beds available at these facilities across the district. The NMC has 76 beds, the MMC has 15 and the rural areas have 2,942 beds. In rural areas, the facilities are located at all of the 15 taluka headquarters besides five facilities in Nashik taluka. Covid-19 patients showing symptoms of pneumonia with no signs of severe respiratory problems will be admitted to the Dedicated Covid Health Centres. In rural areas, there are 12 such facilities with 288 beds. They are located at all rural hospitals, sub-district hospitals, women’s hospital in Malegaon, three trauma care centres each at Wani, Satana and Igatpuri, the urban primary health centre in Gangapur, NDMVP College and Sahyadri Hospital. Finally, the more serious patients showing symptoms of severe pneumonia will be admitted to the Dedicated Covid Hospitals. In the rural areas, 220 beds are made available at the civil hospital, Zakir Hussain Hospital, general hospital Malegaon and sub-district Hospital, Kalwan. Similarly, the NMC has earmarked 170 beds in two facilities and MMC has earmarked 60 beds in one facility. However, more beds for each category will be created as and when required, the officials added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/positive-patients-to-be-separated-in-3-categories-depending-on-seriousness/articleshow/75113242.cms||Abhilash Botekar
April 13, 2020||Bhopal||Lift lockdown in gauged mode: CII tells govt||Indore: Confederation of Indian Industry (CII) has recommended state government to lift the lockdown in a calibrated manner allowing business to open partly in pockets not affected much by Covid-19 following all safety norms. The industry body has also suggested to run a ‘messaging’ campaign to make people understand preparedness of government and industry for resuming operations after the lockdown. CII Madhya Pradesh state council former chairman Praveen Agarwal said, “Government needs to look economic health of the state as well. We propose that businesses in districts with negligible or very low cases of Covid-19 should be allowed to open up partly maintaining proper safety measures. In Madhya Pradesh, which is an agriculture dominant state, agriculture sector followed by allied activities should be opened up in phases starting April15.” CII suggested facilitation of business back on track with the help of e-passes and by arranging special transport. To ease movement of workforce to factories, the industry body recommended that special transport could be arranged from clusters from where large number of workers come following all safety protocols in place. There were incidences of trucks stranded on highways for days and poor availability of drivers. Looking into such cases, CII has suggested to allow dhabas on highways to open so that truck drivers en route get basic amenities. CII suggested all facilities re-opening should ensure social distancing, screening, sanitisation, etc. The fulfilment of norms should be on a self-certification basis with penalties for violating units. The industry body has also urged waivers and exemptions to aid industries. Agrawal said, “Government should also look into needs of the industry on priority like waiving of minimum charges on electricity bills, deferment of electricity and all government payments for 3 months, etc as per the detailed submissions by CII and also similar measures taken by other state governments.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/lift-lockdown-in-gauged-mode-cii-tells-govt/articleshow/75113591.cms||---
April 13, 2020||Pune||38 booked for going out sans masks in Pimpri Chinchwad||PUNE: The Pimpri Chinchwad police have booked 38 people since Friday for venturing out of their houses without covering their faces with masks. The people have been booked for disobedience under section 188 of the Indian Penal Code. The Shirgaon police on Saturday booked 12 persons for not wearing masks. “Most of them had come out of their houses just to have joy rides from neighbouring villages,” Ramchandra Jagdale, investigating officer from the Shirgaon police, told TOI. An officer from the Pimpri Chinchwad police said that all the police stations have been asked to take action against such violators. “Whoever is out of their houses for buying buying essentials should wear the masks,” assistant commissioner of police (Pimpri Chinchwad) RR Patil said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/38-booked-for-going-out-sans-masks/articleshow/75113726.cms||---
April 13, 2020||Kolhapur||Two-year tests negative in first test, second result awaited||KOLHAPUR: The two-year-old toddler has cleared his first negative test after completing his 14-day isolation period. His second test result is expected to arrive by Sunday late night, said Sangli health department officials. Officially, 22 out of 25 family members have been discharged. “The toddler’s mother and father are in the isolation ward and even though they have cleared their post-isolation tests, we are currently not considering them as negative. They too are being tested simultaneously with the toddler to check if the swab result comes negative,” Sangli district collector Abhijeet Chaudhary told TOI. He added that if the parents and toddler clear their tests, they will be discharged and kept under institutional quarantine facility. Chaudhary said they are discussing the possibility of early discharge from the institutional quarantine for the family members with the medical fraternities. “As of now the toddler, his parents, and only one close associate with the family are now admitted to the Miraj Medical College and Hospital,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolhapur/two-year-tests-negative-in-first-test-second-result-awaited/articleshow/75112796.cms||---
April 13, 2020||Mysuru||Pharma students to be promoted to next year/sem without exams: PCI||Shrinivasa.M@timesgroup.com Mysuru: In a big relief to lakhs of students studying various pharma courses approved by the Pharmacy Council of India (PCI), the council on Saturday decided to promote the students to their next academic year/semester without the final examination. According to an advisory issued by the PCI, the promoted students may be asked to appear for this year/semester exams along with the final examination of next year/semester later or for special exams as planned by the examining authority. While the colleges will remain shut in the wake of extended lockdown, M Pharma Part II students can submit their thesis online. According to the PCI advisory, the institutions have also been advised to conduct internal assessments for various courses including D Pharm, B Pharm, M Pharm, Pharm D, B Pharm (Practice) programme using online assessment mode (MCQ/Open Book/assignments/problem based assessment etc) so that the students are able to complete a part of their academic requirement to be eligible for admission to the respective examinations. According to the PCI, M Pharm part II students will be allowed to present their thesis online. “The viva-voce examination will be taken by two examiners through a closed online exam (video conferencing) where the institution, the candidate, his supervisor and others who may be specified by the examining authority and /or the institution may be permitted. The examiners may then suitably certify the student having successfully completed the examinations or otherwise,” it stated. According to the PCI advisory, the pharma college faculty who are engaging students through online classes will be given due credit by the PCI and invite them to serve on the various academic committees of the PCI to share their expertise and knowledge. “Such initiatives should be beyond the needs of the host institutions and curriculum driven,” added PCI authorities.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mysuru/pharma-students-to-be-promoted-to-next-year/sem-without-exams-pci/articleshow/75111134.cms||---
April 13, 2020||Delhi||Delhi: Stopped for not wearing a mask, Uruguay woman threatens cops||NEW DELHI: On the 18th day of the nationwide lockdown, a Uruguayan woman working at the embassy allegedly told police that she had no communication about any such measure from her office. Valentina Obispo, the head of administration, made the claim when police officers, including SHO Vasant Vihar Ravi Shankar, stopped her at Paschimi Marg on Saturday evening for cycling without wearing any mask. The residents welfare association (RWA) of Vasant Vihar has been complaining to police that diplomats and other foreigners residing in the area are stepping out for jogging and cycling without masks. As a step to check the spread of novel coronavirus, Delhi government has made it compulsory for people to wear masks while stepping out. Police said they were informed about some foreigners standing outside the building of the United Nations High Commissioner for Refugees in Vasant Vihar. A senior officer said around five foreigners were asked to leave the place and a little later, the police personnel patrolling Paschimi Marg found the Uruguayan woman cycling without a mask and gloves. When SHO Shankar asked her to stay indoors, the woman allegedly threatened him saying “I will see you”. In a video of the incident shot by Parul Gaur, joint secretary of the Vasant Vihar RWA, the SHO could be heard telling the woman, “Our Prime Minister had announced it and (it) has been implemented all across the country”. But the woman claimed she had no communication from her embassy and kept arguing. She eventually left the spot. The police have written to the Uruguayan embassy requesting it to brief the staff about the lockdown and the related rules. “Many diplomats and foreigners staying in the area either step out to jog or cycle and don’t follow social distancing. If you try to explain it to them, they talk back rudely,” Gaur told TOI. “We have been getting several complaints from residents and many are demanding they should also be allowed to do the same,” she added. Watch Covid-19: Uruguayan national without masks misbehaves with Delhi cops||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/stopped-for-not-wearing-a-mask-uruguay-woman-threatens-cops/articleshow/75113248.cms||---
April 13, 2020||Nagpur||‘A healthy attitude will decide your healthitude’||After being home quarantined, many are confused about what to eat and what to avoid. On how to cope with the situation, clinical dietician and diabetes educator, Malvika Fulwani, spoke to TOI about remedies like immunity boosting food and supplements that can make one energetic, happy and also help to deal with anxiety and stress better. Excerpts... A lazy routine during quarantine is encouraging bad sleeping habits. How important is it to start the day with breakfast? Breakfast is very important because it helps you boost your metabolism and helps keep your blood sugar levels stable. Studies have clearly shown that our glucose tolerance declines as the day goes by. Is Vitamin C-enriched food really good or is it just a myth? Vitamin C is the best option to protect the immune system. It reduces the severity of allergic reactions and helps to fight off infections. If one consumes vitamin C-enriched food, you won’t get Covid-19 is a myth. Oranges, lime, lemons, kiwis etc are some of the sources that one must have daily to improve the infection-fighting capacity of the body. Amla is a great source of Vitamin C. Eat it raw or make a paste or add it to smoothies. It is super delicious and nutritious. How can one follow healthy eating habits by avoiding stocking the pantry with processed and junk food? When it comes to diet, balance is the key. If you eat lots of fresh vegetables and fruits in all your meals, at least half a plate, then packaged and processed foods will naturally take a back seat. When you go grocery shopping, first go to the fresh produce section and load your baskets with lots of veggies, fruits, grains and legumes. Your body will thank you for that. How good or effective is ‘kada’? Kada is one of the oldest and trusted cures in our country since ages. The combination made from various spices like clove, cardamom, turmeric and tulsi leaves will help to boost your immunity. It can even cure mild cough and cold. It gives a boost to the immunity level. Turmeric contains curcumin, a compound that has antiseptic, antioxidant and anti-inflammatory properties. One can have ‘haldi-milk’ or add a pinch of it in their green tea. What kind of changes would you suggest to improve immunity? Amid this pandemic, I would suggest a balanced diet consisting of grains, pulses, millets, green and leafy vegetables, fruits, nuts and seeds and water of course. One must avoid sugar, refined flour and packaged foods as much as possible. What kind of snacks can substitute chips, oily and sugary food? Homemade khakras, ragda chaat, roasted nuts, moong bhel etc are extremely easy to make and absolutely delicious too. One can also make fudgy chocolate bars with dry fruits or laddoos and store them in the fridge for at least a month. How can one make the most of quarantine time to stay healthy? Engage yourself in light physical activity instead of going to the kitchen every 10 minutes. Exercise to burn calories so that you feel hungry before your next meal. I have also realized that family meals help a lot in enjoying the food and green vegetables which can be cooked innovatively to make them tasty and interesting. Any suggestions for stress-busting food? Firstly, avoid watching news about corona and lockdown while having food. Secondly, indulge in light physical activity and thirdly, lemon tea with a pinch of turmeric and half a spoon of honey and a small piece of dark chocolate will surely help. Some of your favourite food too takes the stress away and builds happy hormones. What kind of food items must be included in the diet for children? Again, a balanced diet is the key. Sprouts and vegetables are very important for children to boost their immunity. Avoid junk food. A creative breakfast can ensure that their day starts on a healthy and happy note. What food would you suggest for women with period cramps? Dark chocolate is no doubt the best. Apart from that, ginger tea, kiwi, banana and green leafy vegetables will certainly help to reduce cramps. Any food items that one must eat at least once a week for better gut health? Include curd everyday, either in the form of buttermilk, raita, smoothie etc. Other foods for better gut health are almonds, ginger, garlic and veggies like broccoli, cabbage etc. Your food will decide whether you will be ill or you will be healthy and fit. BOOSTERS * Include Vitamin C-enriched food * Have a balanced diet * Lentils, pulses, seeds are a must * Do not skip breakfast * Consume liquids in the form of smoothies, tea, juices, water etc * Don’t watch TV/news while have food * Dark chocolate is your best friend to boost your mood * Incorporate curd in your diet for better gut health * Enjoy meals with family||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/a-healthy-attitude-will-decide-your-healthitude/articleshow/75111169.cms||Shreya Tinkhede
April 13, 2020||Vijayawada||NCC cadets join Covid-19 fight||Vijayawada: Volunteers of NCC have been pressed into service to help manage the Covid-19 situation in Andhra Pradesh as part of the ‘Exercise NCC Yogdaan’. The cadets will help officials manage traffic, supply chain, packaging of food, distribution, queue management, social distancing, man control centres and CCTV control rooms. TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/ncc-cadets-join-covid-19-fight/articleshow/75111946.cms||---
April 13, 2020||Mysuru||Pickle production grounds to a halt in Malnad||Mysuru: Pickle is a nigh inseparable part of an Indian meal. In South India, curd rice is seldom hand without a pickle, and few dishes spice up a bland fare than a spicy pickle. However, like all other sectors, big and small, the food industry too is feeling the impact of the lockdown enforced in the country to prevent the spread of Covid-19 infection. Pickle factories in the state are concentrated in Shivamogga, Kodagu and Chikkamagalur districts constituting the Malnad belt. Pickles made in cottage industries in these districts, particularly those prepared with mangoes, are very popular across the country. However, those running these factories have been hit with a double whammy: Firstly, they are unable to get their hands on mangoes to make the pickles with, and secondly, with most of the units being shut following government orders, the delay in opening them will render preparation of the pickles an unviable exercise. Deepak Bhat, a partner in Srinivasa Rural Industries in Balehonnur, Chikkamagaluru, said that the future looked grim for the pickle industry. “We have not received the usual stock of tender mangoes needed to make pickles this year. Our factory is shut for now. The practice is to store the mangoes in salt and keep them ready for pickling through the year. But it is becoming very hard to get mangoes. If the situation eases, we may get some mangoes for our pickles,” Bhat said. He pointed out that, in addition to the pickles, production of many horticultural substances had ground to a halt. “For us, the months between January and May are crucial since this is the time when many ritual events such as weddings, house-warming ceremonies, but none of these events is happening now. We think that we will struggle to get raw materials for the next one year,” Bhat added. Ganesh, owner of a pickle company in Soraba in Shivamogga, said that the yield of mango crop had fallen drastically. “Lockdown has only added to our woes. We also have no labourers to work in our factories. Farmers are unable to supply either tender or matured mangoes. As a result, we are unable to supply pickles, while production has come to a halt,” Ganesh said. The consumers are understandably a disappointed lot. “Tender mango pickles are mouthwatering, and preparing them is an art. That we will not be able to buy them because of the circumstances is a sad scenario,” said Shyamala GS, a Mysuru resident.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mysuru/pickle-production-grounds-to-a-halt-in-malnad/articleshow/75111166.cms||---
April 13, 2020||Hyderabad||Mental health experts expect surge in stress cases||HYDERABAD: Lockdown is not only increasing severe stress among the working folk but also intensifying the stress related issues, opine city-based psychologists and psychiatrists. Though many are seeking help online or through phone, experts believe that post lockdown more people would need assistance to tackle these stress related symptoms. Dr K Srinivas, a senior consultant psychiatrist at a city hospital, said that lockdown is affecting the children as well. “Parents are not in a position to help the kids bust stress as many of them are working from home, “ Srinivas said. “This is happening specially among children aged between 8 and 12 years. We advised the parents to divert the attention of the children” he added. Psychiatrist Dr Jyothy said that though extension of lockdown may be the most accurate medical solution it may now lead to more stress and panic related cases. “From the complaints we received on our helpline we realised that people are worried a lot about the medical issues. For even small things like a sneeze or a cough, they are petrified,” he said. Psychologist C Veerendar said that stress is a cause of concern among Telugu NRI community. “Usually, we don’t get calls from NRIs but now during the Covid-19 crisis many are frequently contacting us,” he said. “They are concerned about the post lock down situation and how long this uncertainty will continue in US and India. Some are worried about their jobs and they want to return home. Some fear that they will not be able to meet their families anytime soon,” Veerendar said. He even observed that the citizens are suffering from emotional exhaustion. “People are not able to deal with the prevailing situation. They are unable to cope up with working from home. I expect a number of new cases in the forthcoming days,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/mental-health-experts-expect-surge-in-stress-cases/articleshow/75113593.cms||Sribala Vadlapatla
April 13, 2020||Kolhapur||33 samples test negative, 22 more admitted in isolation||KOLHAPUR: As many as 33 swab samples from Karad’s Krishna hospital and Satara’s District hospital was tested negative on Sunday, said a press release by the Satara health department. According to the release, 22 new suspects have been admitted in the isolation wards of the Karad and Satara hospital. The results of these swab samples are expected soon. Meanwhile, district collector Shekhar Singh said the corona care centers have been set up across 11 different places across the Satara district. These centers will treat the suspected patients, as the screening of people across all villages in Satara is underway. These centers will collect the swab samples of the suspects and will send it to the laboratory for testing. District health officer Aniruddha Athalye said that all the medical institutions across the district have been provided with face shields, personal protective equipment, N-95 masks, triple-layer masks, and sanitizers. There will not be any kind of depletion of these necessary requirements in the district, he said. The district collector and Satara zilla parishad chief executive officer Sanjay Bhagwat are guiding the health officials accordingly. He appealed the citizens to remain under home quarantine considering the current situation of the district and contact the health department if they see any Covid-19 symptoms in them.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolhapur/33-samples-test-ve-22-more-admitted-in-isolation/articleshow/75112817.cms||---
April 13, 2020||Kolhapur||Citizens toss distancing norms to buy veggies||KOLHAPUR: Without giving any heed to the social distancing norms necessitated by the government as well as the civic administration, a large number of citizens queued up before the vegetable vendors in the mandis on Sunday fearing that the markets will operate only for a short period of time. Farmers from the nearby villages arrive in the mandis every Sunday to sell their produce. Due to lack of space in the regular markets, spaces have been earmarked at regular intervals along roadsides to facilitate farmers to sell their produce. Markings have been chalked out to ensure citizens maintain the requisite minimum distance from each other. However, the social distancing norms went for a toss on Sunday as many citizens feared that the farmers would not be allowed to sit for long. Municipal commisioner Mallinath Kalshetti said, “I received complaints from some mandis that social distance was not being observed. The locals have decided not to allow the mandis to operate for a long time. We have issued no such time limit. Rather, we have maintained that the vegetable markets and the ration shops should function normally during the operational hours to avoid the rush of people.” “The state government has clear directions to allow the shops and markets to remain open for as long as possible. I will speak to the locals and the police and make sure such time limit is not imposed on the vendors or the shop owners,” said Kalshetti. Ward committees have been formed to facilitate doorstep delivery of essentials so that citizens don’t step out of their homes. The mobile number of local shops and vendors have been provided so that the citizens can order for the essentials with ease. Even the restaurants and eateries have been allowed to deliver food at home. “We have also launched a mobile application to facilitate doorstep delivery of essentials. Moreover, some malls have started taking online orders for the essentials required by the citizens and delivering them at their doorstep,” said the civic chief. Kalshetti has already warned to take strict action against those found roaming in the streets without any purpose. All the gas agencies have giving cylinders over the counter and delivering them at people’s doorstep.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolhapur/citizens-toss-distancing-norms-to-buy-veggies/articleshow/75112823.cms||---
April 13, 2020||Bhopal||48 hrs on, 4 still missing in dyke collapse||Bhopal: Even after 48 hours, only two bodies have been recovered, including that of an eight-year-old child, and four persons are still missing after the fly-ash dyke of Sasan Ultra Mega Power Plant (UMPP) in Singrauli collapsed on Friday evening. Singrauli district collector K V S Chowdhary while on one hand constituted a magisterial probe into the incident; he also issued a showcause notice to the power plant, as cracks in other ash dykes of Sasan were also reported by local residents on Sunday. A reply has been sought within three days. Meanwhile, teams of Madhya Pradesh Pollution Control Board have also started an assessment of the environmental damage caused by the incident. Chowdhary said, “MP Pollution Control Board is collecting samples from the spot and assessing the environmental damages”. Sasan UMPP of Reliance Power will be liable for doing the restoration work and pay for the damages caused, said sources. A flood of ash slurry swept through Harhawa region, taking people by surprise. A statement issued by collector Chowdhary said rescuers are looking for the missing villagers — Ankit Kumar, (3), Seema Kumari, (9), Chunkumari, (27) and Rajjad Ali, (28). Rajjad is a resident of UP's Sonbhadra district but was here for some time. The bodies of Dinesh Kumar, (35), and Abhishek Kumar Shah, (8), years were recovered on Saturday. Reliance power management has given in writing to the district administration that a compensation of Rs10 lakh would be provided to the kin of deceased adults and in case of death of a minor. The official statement issued by the power plant has no mention of the deaths. It says, “We are deeply anguished by the incident involving the break in the ash dump yard wall at our Sasan power plant. The break in ash dump yard wall pushed the water leading to break in the boundary wall affecting some thatched houses. We are investigating the incident. Power plant operations are continuing since the relief and restoration work are not affected by the same. We are closely working with local residents and the district administration in our ongoing relief and restoration work”. The 3960MW plant is one of the largest integrated power projects in the world. In August last year, people had a narrow escape when a mud-wall of the fly-ash dyke of Essar Energy’s Mahan-I thermal power plant collapsed due to heavy rains in Singrauli district. Five children were trapped, but were later rescued and over 500 farmers reportedly suffered crop loss.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/48-hrs-on-4-still-missing-in-dyke-collapse/articleshow/75113594.cms||---
April 13, 2020||Mangaluru||Annual religious rituals cancelled at Sri Kshetra Dharmasthala||MANGALURU: Sri Kshetra Dharmasthala has cancelled a host of religious rituals that are usually held annually during the Vishu month, over the next five days, due to the lockdown. These include the Sri Dharma devathe, Sri Annappa swami nema and kola, rathotsava of Sri Manjunatha Swamy, the presiding deity of Sri Kshetra and ‘vihara’ of the deity to various ‘katte’ as well as ‘avabratha vihara’ to the Nethravathi River. Devotees are now not able to visit the kshetra due to the lockdown. D Veerendra Heggade, dharmadhikari of the kshetra, said entering the temple and getting darshan is cancelled until further orders. Since all these rituals have been cancelled, based on the indication given by Annappa Swami in ‘devaprashne’ posed to the Demigod, devotees need not have any reservations on cancellation of the rituals, and he urged them to follow the directives given by the government.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mangaluru/annual-religious-rituals-cancelled-at-sri-kshetra-dharmasthala/articleshow/75111188.cms||---
April 13, 2020||Delhi||Mercury likely to hit 40°C by Wednesday in Delhi||NEW DELHI: Forty degrees high are here again as clear skies are pushing the mercury to rise sharply over the last few days. On Saturday, Delhi’s maximum temperature touched 36.9 degrees Celsius, rising to 37.2 degrees on Sunday. IMD forecasts the mercury to rise even further over the next 48 hours, touching 39 degrees Celsius by Tuesday and 40 degrees C by Wednesday. In comparison, the ‘normal’ temperature for this time of the season is 36.1 degrees Celsius. There is a belief that the higher temperatures could provide some relief against the novel coronavirus. Kuldeep Srivastava, scientist at IMD, said ideal conditions, which include low wind speed and clear skies were helping raise the temperature at such a pace, with the trend expected to continue until Thursday. “From Friday onwards, we may see a rise in wind speed to the range of 30-40 km/hr and some thundery development. There are also chances of light shower on Saturday that can then bring back mercury to around 35 degrees Celsius by the weekend. Right now, we have dry air coming towards Delhi and the westerly component is also strong, leading to a spike in temperatures,” Srivastava added. Srivastava said the maximum temperature generally breaches the 40-degree mark in the city by the third week of April. While Safdarjung station recorded a high of 37.2 degrees Celsius on Sunday, Palam was the hottest location in the capital with a high of 38.2 degrees Celsius. The minimum temperature, meanwhile, was recorded at 20.3 degrees Celsius. According to Met officials, thundery development may occur in some parts of NCR on Monday with the high touching 38 degrees Celsius. The minimum is also expected to rise to around 22 degrees Celsius by April 17. Watch Delhi: Mercury likely to touch 40°C by Wednesday||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/clear-skies-push-temps-higher-brace-for-40c/articleshow/75113269.cms||---
April 13, 2020||Hyderabad||Hyderabad: Alone & hungry, migrants face a tough time||HYDERABAD: Migrant workers and daily wage labourers, staying at under construction buildings in Chandanagar, have been left to fend for themselves. The volunteers, who provided succour so far, were told to stop all food distribution activities as this area was declared as a containment zone. Thousands of workers being fed by the volunteers since March 23, are clueless on how they would survive till the lockdown is lifted on April 30. Further, the migrants do not get ration from the state government and were dependant on the volunteers.“My wife, nine-year-old son, and myself received food packets until April 10. Now we are not getting any food and there is hardly any ration left at home,” said Surender Padhi, a migrant worker from Odisha. Padhi, a plumber, said that the colony association is trying to help people like him by providing ration, but added that there are far too many people. “About 80 people were given some ration by volunteers in the colony on Saturday. However, I did not get any as there are thousands like me who are looking for help,” said Padhi and added that it would be difficult for him and his family to survive in these trying times. Majority of the workers staying in Chandanagar are from Uttar Pradesh, Bihar, Odisha, Rajasthan, AP and other states. They are either staying in makeshift houses or one-room rented accommodation. They said that they lost all hopes of surviving in the city and want to return to their native places. “Our owner initially took care of us but now we are not getting any help. Colony people provided us with some ration but I don’t know for how long we could survive here,” said Shanker Lal Patil, a construction worker from Jodhpur, who is staying with his wife and an eight-month-old daughter. Patil’s wife Ramani said that they are still waiting for the state to provide them with ration and Rs 500. “We did not get anything from the state,” she said, adding that she wants to go back to her village. Meanwhile, after TOI alerted, GHMC officials started distributing ration to migrant workers and daily wage labourers late in the night on Sunday. Shaik Salman, a constable guarding the colony, said that as per the orders from officials, volunteers should not be allowed to provide cooked food as such incidents are leading to gathering of a number of people. “Instead, we are encouraging them to provide ration,” he added. N Ravi Kumar, GHMC zonal commissioner, Serilingampally, said he will ensure ration is provided to the workers soon. He added that they will look into the feasibility of providing cooked food through Annapurna canteens.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/alone-hungry-migrants-face-a-tough-time/articleshow/75113268.cms||Nirupa Vatyam
April 13, 2020||Kolhapur||Solapur records first Covid-19 death||KOLHAPUR: Solapur district on Saturday reported its first death related to Covid-19. Solapur district collector Milind Shambharkar on Sunday said that the man was a resident of Pacha Peth area of the city. He was admitted to the Chhatrapati Shivaji Maharaj Sarvopchar Rugnalaya (civil hospital) on Friday after he had reported difficulty in breathing. "We have cordoned off the area and have identified 52 close contacts of the deceased. They all have been admitted to the civil hospital and their throat swab samples have been collected for testing," Shambharkar said. He added that the area where the deceased used to live has been declared containment zone and all the movement has been restricted for the citizens. "We have started a disinfection drive in the area. The one-km area is sealed and further guidelines for the residents will be announced soon," he said. According to Shambharkar, the administration is taking care of everything and there is no need to panic. "A team of policemen and civic officials has been appointed in the said area and all necessary containment zone precautions are being taken," he said. Earlier, the Solapur district administration had sounded an alert last week, when the first case of a Covid-19 was traced in the South Solapur taluka. The male patient was working as worker in a village and had gone to Gwalior after the outbreak of Covid-19. Shambarkar said, "The worker tested positive in Gwalior and the administration there alerted us."||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolhapur/solapur-records-first-covid-19-death/articleshow/75112835.cms||Piyush Bhusari
April 13, 2020||Vadodara||Samples from Tandalja, Mughalwada test negative||VADODARA: While the number of Covid-19 cases in the city may be spiralling at an alarming rate, the geographical spread of the virus has so far been limited to two localities. Positive cases due to local transmission since last week are from these two pockets only. Officials of Vadodara Municipal Corporation (VMC) said results of samples so far from Tandalja and Mughalwada have turned out to be negative. VMC has been sending samples to SSG Hospital as well as a private laboratory in Ahmedabad for testing. On Friday, results of all the 30 samples from Tandalja were found negative for Covid-19. Fifteen samples from Mughalwada were also found to be negative. VMC has started sampling in Tandalja and Mughalwada after it came to light that a homeopath from Nagarwada who had tested positive for Covid-19 used to work at a hospital in Tandalja. Similarly, a doctor who had examined a Covid-19 patient was a resident of Mughalwada. Tandalja has been declared a red zone while Mughalwada an orange zone by VMC.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/samples-from-tandalja-mughalwada-test-negative/articleshow/75112305.cms||---
April 13, 2020||Hyderabad||Lockdown heroes: For K Samantha, service knows no bounds||HYDERABAD: At first, it sounds like an impossible mission. But riding back and forth in her auto rickshaw across the twin cities, almost covering 1,500 kilometres in a week’s time, did not deter K Samantha, a transgender person, from reaching out to those who are in dire need of help and support after the lockdown came into force. With the collective effort of Women and Transgender Joint Action Committee that came forward to support the transgender community to get donations and groceries and police, who gave Samantha a pass to move from one place to another, the 35-year-old was able to provide succour to over 300 trans persons, who are at the risk of poverty and ill health in these times of crisis. Speaking to TOI, Samantha said, “The transgender community is one of the worst affected with livelihood and mobility entirely stopped since lockdown. With the help of some activists, our friends from the community have pitched in to collect donations and groceries for the needy trans people. I have decided to help them distribute the essentials by transporting them in my auto from one place to another.” With limited access to government welfare schemes, the transgender community is buying and distributing essentials from donations collected from online fund-raising campaigns that came to their aid during the lockdown period. Rachana Mudraboyina, a founding member of Telangana Hijra Intersex Transgender Samiti and founder of Transvision, tells TOI, “Samantha has to cross check posts of two districts and enter the city every day to distribute these essentials. Before she starts distributing essentials in the twin cities, she wakes up at 6am, gets grass to feed her cow in the village, cooks for her single mother and then comes here to help us distribute the groceries.” Now, Samantha has been selected by the Telangana government as one of the health workers, who would be working to ensure various health services, including distribution of antiretroviral therapy (ART) drugs that help treatment of HIV, reach people during the lockdown period. “We would like to thank the government and civil society networks for this opportunity to prove that transgender persons have equal rights in society and are capable of any volunteer work in times of crisis,” Rachana added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/for-samantha-service-knows-no-bounds/articleshow/75113601.cms||Moulika.KV
April 13, 2020||Business||Allow 16 manufacturing sectors to resume ops, industry dept tells MHA||BENGALURU: The department of promotion of industry and internal trade (DPIIT) has sought opening up 16 manufacturing segments - from food and beverages to auto, steel and cement to plastics, paints and exports - where production has halted due to the lockdown, while suggesting a protocol that industries could follow once factories are back in operation. Government sources, however, cautioned that DPIIT had merely made a suggestion and there was no decision to end the lockdown. "The proposal is based on the feedback that has been gathered from the industry as part of consultation and it will be wrong to see it as either a decision or directive," a senior source said. On April 9, TOI had reported that commerce and industry minister Piyush Goyal had pitched for resumption of manufacturing activity in a limited manner. On Sunday, the newspaper reported that the government was looking to restart economic activity in a graded manner. If the strong disclaimer by government sources tied in with the strong likelihood of the "stay-at-home" directive being extended till April 30, the DPIIT letter reflected the government's anxiety to chart a path out of the lockdown in a calibrated way. In a communication to the home ministry over the weekend, the department proposed an SoP following consultations that Goyal had with industry and argued that it was essential to move beyond essential supplies to improve "the economic activity and provide liquidity" to people. DPIIT proposed that factories that open should allow a single-entry point for workers, use separate transport or make accommodation arrangements for workers, while seeking free movement of vehicles and manpower. It also said large industries such as textiles and automobiles, which follow proper sanitation and distancing norms, could operate shifts at 20-25% capacity initially. The department also said that small companies and exporters should be allowed to operate with minimal manpower and necessary movement of material.  Government officials said that it is crucial to restart production as supplies are now running low, including essential items needed for treatment of Covid-19 patients. Industry is eagerly waiting for cues from the government to restart factories and is willing to follow the prescribed procedure.  In fact, as reported by TOI on Saturday, industry is ready to operate plants with fewer shifts and only in the “green zones”, where no coronavirus cases have been detected.  “Shifts may be so operated that it does not lead to crowding during beginning/ end of a shift,” DPPIT said, while recommending that district authorities should be tasked with ensuring compliance. It also said industries operating or about to resume operations may be allowed to ask labourers to report to duty.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/allow-16-manufacturing-sectors-to-resume-ops-industry-dept-tells-mha/articleshow/75113836.cms||Avik Das
April 13, 2020||Ludhiana||Drug supply cut, addicts want to wean away||Ludhiana: Twenty-seven-year-old businessman from Civil Lines has been hooked to heroin for many years now. He has been consuming moderate quantities of the drug. But the lockdown has made it difficult for him to continue with the addiction. His family, comprising wife and parents, now hopes that he will give up addiction. He too wants to get rid of it and has sought counselling from an expert.Psychiatrists and de-addiction experts in the district are getting many cases wherein addicts, especially those with mild and moderate addiction problem, are coming forward to give up addiction due to the lockdown. “Normally, we would get two to three such cases daily, but these days 15 to 20 persons from across the district seek telephonic consultation. The main reason is that the supply of drugs has been cut due to the curfew and then they cannot go out to meet peer groups and their suppliers. This has motivated the addicts to quit,” said Dr Anshu Gupta, a city-based psychiatrist and de-addiction expert. “Once they decide, we motivate them to give up drugs and their families also support them by spending a lot of time with them. Many addicts are quitting drugs due to the continued curfew and doses of some who were already getting treatment have been reduced as they spend most of their time with their families. Most of the addicts coming forward to give up addiction are between 25 and 35 years old,” the doctor added. Experts said it has become easy to manage the severe drug cases, too, in the curfew. “There has been an impact on those with mild and moderate addiction problem. Even as there are withdrawal complications, the motivation is higher. Lack of drug availability and peer group contact are main reasons helping them,” said Dr Ranjive Mahajan, head of the department of psychiatry, DMCH. The government hospitals where de-addiction centres are being run also confirmed that there was an increase in number of addicts coming forward to quit the habit.Dr Rajinder Gulati, senior medical officer at Khanna civil hospital, said, “After curfew was implemented, there has been a manifold increase in addicts coming for help. Multiple factors are responsible for the trend, but lack of source of drug is the major one.” Doctors’ adviceDon’t consider it to be a stress issue. It is an opportunityDo meditation and yogaBe physically activity. Keep yourself busy. Make a daily routine and stick to itFamilies should support addicts. Addiction is a disease and not a habit. On the wagonAs the liquor supply has been cut, alcoholics are also facing the same situation. Specialists said families of many alcoholics were motivating them to quit drinking and were also seeking their help.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/drug-supply-cut-addicts-want-to-wean-away/articleshow/75111994.cms||Shariq Majeed
April 13, 2020||Mumbai||Mumbai: Lone elders bear brunt of lockdown||MUMBAI: A 74-year-old diabetic patient and his wife, who live alone in a western suburb, had to stop their regular walks recently after their housing society imposed restrictions. "While our neighbours are helping us out with the essentials, we are unable to go for our regular walks. I am diabetic and have been asked to walk every day for half an hour at least. But this lockdown is making it difficult for us to venture out,” he said. At the other end, a senior citizen who lives by himself in a residential complex in Mulund is dependent on two meals from the local MP’s network. “After out tiffin service was discontinued, the local MP stepped in to offer help. I am not on any major medication, but there is absolutely no help around for daily chores,” he said. Senior citizens who live alone are among those hardest hit by the lockdown, both physically and emotionally. With no access to parks and gardens for socializing, restrictions on movement, no domestic help, they are battling anxiety issues. Many also are facing difficulties in purchasing essential supplies and medicines. The number of distress calls from senior citizens that psychiatrists receive has increased in the past one week. And when the city’s police commissioner took to Twitter to interact with citizens, some of the elderly living alone complained about not being able to get essentials. Psychiatrists recommend that housing society members, neighbours to step in and help them with daily necessities. Psychiatrist Dr Avinash D’Souza, who practises in Santacruz, said, “They are reading and hearing about he higher mortality rate among senior citizens. A lot of them are facing what we call death anxiety. Many of them have called and asked me if this is how their life might end,” he said. “Most live alone and their children are either abroad or in other cities. These senior citizens are finding it difficult to step out for daily essentials. They have never seen empty roads, some even say they fear walking out alone. ‘What if no one notices me, if I fall somewhere?’ These are some of the concerns they call me for,” added D’Souza, who assures them the phase is temporary and can be best dealt with by staying at home. He recommends they talk to people on the phone. Dr S R Kumawat, former director of health services, who currently practises in Thane, said elderly citizens are unable to socialisz with their regular groups. "Many of them used to meet in the mornings or evenings to chat and socialize, now that is curtailed. Many are not even internet savvy to talk do video calls, so they are feeling emotionally suffocated. My advice to them is to take a solitary walk on the building’s terrace, if possible. A few of them should take the initiative in staying connected with one another through phone calls. Positive exchanges will help them in periods like these. They need emotional venting out,” said Kumawat. The World Health Organisation suggests people with pre-existing mental health conditions to continue with their treatment and be aware of new or worsening symptoms.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/lone-elders-bear-brunt-of-lockdown/articleshow/75113602.cms||Yogita Rao
April 13, 2020||Hyderabad||GHMC tells 10 Covid-19 suspects to isolate selves||HYDERABAD: The Greater Hyderabad Municipal Corporation’s (GHMC) received calls from 68 people from across the city on lockdown and coronavirus-related queries on their helpline number on Sunday. Of the 68 people, 10 persons who complained of having symptoms of coronavirus were counselled and tested for coronavirus and were told to self-isolate till the results are out. The GHMC officials asked the 10 suspects about their travel history and whom they came in contact with. “We are following the guidelines while dealing with people. We are waiting for the test results,” said a GHMC official, adding that the 10 coronavirus suspects have been asked to quarantine themselves at home till the test results are out,” said a GHMC official. The officials also carried out a door-to-door survey to check for symptoms of coronavirus among residents living in the same localities where the 10 persons live. Officials also distributed pamphlets with guidelines to be followed by people in home quarantine and sprayed disinfectants around the houses of the 10 coronavirus suspects on Sunday. Water tankers that entered these localities were also sanitised. Further, of the 10 persons who called the control room, two persons sought an ambulance. The remaining calls the GHMC received were related to delivery of essentials. “The Covid-19 control room set up at GHMC head office is also attending to phone calls from foreign returnees and tracking twitter posts in order to contain the spread of coronavirus,” said a GHMC official. As per GHMC records, 1,298 persons are under home quarantine in the city.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/ghmc-tells-10-covid-19-suspects-to-isolate-selves/articleshow/75113279.cms||Nabinder Bommala
April 13, 2020||Ludhiana||Battling disease, they rue ill-treatment now||Ludhiana: The six patients and those under observation at isolation wards of the civil hospital Covid-19 wing are neither being given special and balanced diet nor adequate amount of water. They said there was only one water bottle (2 litre) per ward and the food was not being given at fixed hours. A 26-year-old Covid-19 patient, a resident of Payal block, said, “We are not being provided any special diet. Even as an NGO gives food for the patients, it is served to us very late. And at times, it does not reach us. I have raised the issue with the officials concerned many a time, but to no avail. I have now asked my family to send my meals.” An 18-year-old of Amarpura who had tested positive recently said, “Patients get just two pieces of bread and a cup of tea in breakfast. We get lunch around 3pm and dinner around 11pm when we should be sleeping. We are neither provided any fruits nor a special diet in between. The authorities should ensure we get proper diets so that we recovery from the disease quickly.” Another patient, 24, from Ganesh Nagar said, “Security officials are always strict with us. At times they do not even allow us to use washrooms. A few days ago when I asked for water, I saw a staffer refilling our bottle from washroom taps. There is one water bottle of 2 litres for the whole ward, which has five positive patients.” NGO Anjal Sewa Trust has been serving food to the civil hospital patients from the past 11 years. “Till now, we have never sought any monetary assistance from the district administration, but now we need its help to streamline our efforts,” said an NGO member. Another member of the NGO said, “If our help is not reaching the patients, then it is ending up with security officials or the civil hospital staff. Earlier, we would send pranthas (Indian bread), but we discontinued serving them as security officials and the hospital staff would have them.” A volunteer said, “The staff and Class IV employees deployed at isolation wards of flu corner often roam around in the hospital in PPE kits, posing a threat of infection to other workers and visitors.” NGO Shiv Ram Saroay president said, “Our volunteers drop food at blue zone of Covid-19 wing, where suspected patients are admitted. Without PPE kits, they cannot go to patients in red zone. We seek transparency on whether our food is reaching the patients. Besides, the Covid-19 wing staff should be instructed not to roam around in the hospital. There is a WhatsApp group, where the staff can post their demands for tea and coffee that our volunteers will deliver them.” Senior medical officer Dr Ravi Dutt said, “We have taken note of meals served by NGOs getting delayed at times. The staff nurses have been asked to click pictures of patients with the food and send those to us. Now, there will be a check. We will seek report on a daily basis.” Meal chart DMCH hospital’s chief dietician Dr Ritu Sudhakar said, “A weekly menu is recommended for patients. It should be as per the recommendations for people prone to the virus as well as for the ones who are already infected with it. It should be a high protein balanced diet with some cost-effective immunity boosting dietary ingredients added to it. Doctors, nurses and staff on duty at the isolation ward should also take care of the patients.”  COVID-19 facilities nodal officer Sanyam Aggarwal said, “A special diet plan has been drawn up in consultation with health experts. It will be implemented immediately. Food is served in eco-friendly and disposable plates and cups.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/battling-disease-they-rue-ill-treatment-now/articleshow/75111998.cms||Mehak Jain
April 13, 2020||Kolhapur||'Dealing with Covid-19 was easier than dealing with misinformation, social stigma'||KOLHAPUR: A member of the Islampur family — recounting his experience in the isolation ward of the civil hospital in Miraj where he along with his 24 other family members were admitted — shared how misinformation was spread on the social media, blaming them for the spread of Covid-19. Six of the family members have recovered and discharged after testing negative for coronavirus. Talking to TOI, one of the recovered members said, "We have been living in Islampur for generations. The town is like one small community and supports each other through good and bad times. However, after we tested positive for Covid-19, the attitude of the entire town changed towards us. The social media was flooded with hatred without knowing about truth.” He added, “When I revealed the names of people I came in close contact with, allegations were raised that I am taking their names only to settle old scores. It was not like that we created this virus and brought it deliberately to the town.” The man, who was tested positive for Covid-19 on March 25, said misinformation like hosting of event and feast by our family was also rife on social media. “The fact is some of the elderly members, who had returned from Saudi Arabia, were unwell and we had consulted with out family doctor. We willingly went to the Miraj civil hospital and complied with all the instructions. This took many days, but no one knows about it. Even those who came in close contact with us had to deal with taunts,” he said. “When we were admitted to the isolation ward, we were hopeful that none of us would die from this virus. But more than the disease, it was the spell of misinformation and rumours that was difficult to deal with. We did not know how will we face our friends and relatives after being discharged,” he added. Stressing on the need for people to be compassionate during such times, he said, “I salute and admire the work put in by our medical team. They always encouraged us and gave their best.” He added, “I would urge people to take care of themselves. Stay indoors and stay safe. If we can overcome this, anybody can. Our medical staff and administration is there for us."--||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolhapur/dealing-with-covid-19-was-easier-than-dealing-with-misinformation-social-stigma/articleshow/75112845.cms||Piyush Bhusari
April 13, 2020||Nagpur||Lockdown sees steep reduction in city’s garbage generation||Nagpur: The quantum of garbage collected in the city has reduced by 126.51 tonnes or 10.87% per day in March compared with average of January and February apparently due to the ongoing lockdown. If compared with average of 1,255 tonnes per day (TPD) collected last year, the reduction is 218.5 TPD or 17.41%. The state government had imposed lockdown in four cities of the state including Nagpur from March 21. Then, Prime Minister Narendra Modi announced a complete national lockdown from March 25. NMC deputy commissioner (sanitation) Dr Pradeep Dasarwar told TOI, “There is huge difference on the roads as far as garbage is concerned since the lockdown started. People are not coming out on the roads so garbage has reduced. Excluding vegetable waste, not much garbage is coming from market areas as most shops are also closed. NMC has continued door-to-door collection of garbage and sweeping of roads on regular basis,” he said. The civic body’s two garbage operators — AG Enviro and BVG India — collected 32,131.75 tonnes in 31 days in March for a daily average of 1,036.50 TPD. Average collection was 1,255 TPD last year. NMC collected 1,180.52 TPD in January and 1,145.50 TPD in February or an average of 1,163.01 TPD. Garbage collection was 21,651.8 tonnes or 1,082.59 TPD between March 1 and 20. In the lockdown period which is from March 21 to 31, the garbage collection was 10,479.95 tonnes or 952.72 TPD. The difference is 302.28 TPD or 24.09% if quantum of 10-day lockdown period is compared with average of last year. Dr Dasarwar added, “NMC also began cleaning rivers and nullahs across the city. The garbage and silt being removed from rivers and nullahs are transported by NMC’s own vehicles and not through garbage operators. NMC is not allowing two garbage operators to transport demolition and construction materials too. The entire solid waste being collected and transported by two garbage operators is coming from roads and households only,” he said. IAN Lockdown means less waste Last year: 1,255 Jan 2020: 1,180.52 Feb 2020: 1,145.50 Average of two months: 1,163.01 March 2020: 1,036.50 Lockdown in city from March 21 March 1 to 20: 1,082.59 March 21 to 31: 952.72 (Figures in tonnes per day)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/lockdown-sees-steep-reduction-in-citys-garbage-generation/articleshow/75113290.cms||Anjaya Anparthi
April 13, 2020||Hyderabad||Online courses see 3X surge in demand amid lockdown||Hyderabad: Education technology (EdTech) firms have seen a surge in enquires about online courses from professionals and corporates since the lockdown, to curb the spread of Covid-19, was announced on March 24 . The firms claim courses such as business analytics, data science, deep learning, machine learning, blockchain for senior manager, transformational leadership, HR management, digital marketing among others are gaining significant traction. “Within just three weeks, our platform has seen a 45% surge in the interest level of professionals in upskilling themselves,” Aditya Malik, CEO of TalentEdge, said. He said that considering the current economic conditions, the EdTech firms are expecting the trend to continue as more employees are looking to re-skill/upskill themselves in anticipation of difficult times ahead. “Apart from individuals reaching out on the platform, there is also an increase in corporates looking for relevant courses for their employees,” he added. The firms added that 70% of learners opting for these courses are working professionals, mostly employed in the IT/ITeS sector. “We have witnessed an increased interest from professionals who want to use their time to learn and upskill. This trend is also evident across all of our learning offerings, including the free as well as paid courses. We’ve seen a 3x (three-fold) increase in content consumption across the platform,” said Hari Krishnan Nair, co-founder of Great Learning. He added that Hyderabad ranks among the top four cities witnessing the highest demands for these courses. Coursera, an American online learning platform, said comparing the past 30 days (as of April 6) with the same period a year ago, new registration grew 505%. Raghav Gupta, managing director, India and Asia-Pacific, Coursera, said “Since the outbreak of Covid-19, we have seen change across several key Coursera metrics. Along with the number of learners turning to Coursera, content consumption has also broadened. Overall enrolments YoY increased 432%,” he added. Gupta said Coursera has over 50 enterprise customers, including Mindtree, Tata Communications, Axis Bank, Infosys, Airtel, Manipal Group, among others. Working professionals say that the last few weeks have given them time to explore various courses.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/online-courses-see-3x-surge-in-demand-amid-lockdown/articleshow/75113282.cms||Nirupa Vatyam
April 13, 2020||Ludhiana||Residents find allowing food delivery unpalatable decision||Ludhiana: On one hand, curfew is in place and on the other, several fast food outlets and restaurants have been granted permission to start food delivery between 7.30pm and 10pm. A famous ice-cream parlour too has been granted permission. However, the administration’s decision has not gone down well with the residents. Congress leaders are also opposing it. Residents have taken to social media to vent out their anger and asked how the administration would ensure medical checkup and hygiene of the staff, and conduct daily inspections. A video by Parvinder Lapran, Congress councillor from ward 48, has gone viral on social media in which he has opened a front against the administration. Lapran has been lauded by the residents for taking a stand despite being part of the ruling government. Many restaurant owners too are supporting Lapran’s views. Speaking to the TOI, Lapran said, “This decision seems to have been taken by the administration without thinking about its consequences. At a time when serious thought is being given to stop even free distribution of cooked food by NGOs, as recently a case came to the fore in Punjab in which those distributing food were found to be Covid-19 positive, the DC has allowed a select restaurants and food outlets to operate. Even if it’s home delivery, who will ensure if hygiene norms are being followed.” Lapran added, “Ever since the decision was taken, a flood of advertisements has swept social media. Restaurant owners are sending promotional messages. Soon we will even see people going to these restaurants to pick up food. An ice-cream parlour on Malhar Road too has been allowed to operate. This outlet has been issued a curfew pass for providing essential commodities. It is shocking and laughable that ice cream is an essential commodity. The administration should cancel these permissions. It is my request to the restaurant and food outlet owners to exercise patience for the next few days and comply with the curfew.” The administration, through Twitter handle of the district public relations officer, informed about the decision on Sunday. It received many replies, rejecting the move. Vishal Luthra tweeted, “My suggestion is not to start this because we do not know how much hygienic they are.” Karan Kochar tweeted, “Sir please answer my question, does ice cream parlour come under essential commodity?” Some residents posted their comments on Facebook. Munish Dua said, “What about the authority given to restaurants for food delivery, it’s wrong decision and many more people will get infected through this act.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/residents-find-allowing-food-delivery-unpalatable-decision/articleshow/75112020.cms||Mohit Behl
April 13, 2020||Ludhiana||69-yr-old Covid-19 suspect woman dies||Ludhiana: A suspected Covid-19 patient died at civil hospital on Sunday, while the number of positive cases in the district went up to 12. On Sunday morning, 69-year-old woman from Pahwa, Sahnewal, was admitted to the civil hospital with Covid-19-like symptoms. She was sent to respiratory emergency with dyspnea. She had a history of diabetes mellitus, claimed the doctor on duty. He said, “Her saturation of oxygen was low and she was immediately given inhalation, medications and antibiotics. Her condition improved initially and she was put on oxygen therapy. She came here around 2.30am on Sunday and had the infection proponent. She was given high quality CPR, but could not be revived and was declared dead within half-an-hour.” Senior medical officer Dr Ravi Dutt said, “Her throat swab has been sent for Covid-19 test to Rajindra Hospital, Patiala. The report is awaited.” Meanwhile, the report of a 59-year-old man, whose sample was taken on March 9, came negative on Sunday. While 48 suspected patients are already admitted to civil hospital isolation ward, 12 more came in on Sunday. Two of them were referred to ESIC Hospital, while 20 throat swabs were taken and sent to Rajindra Hospital.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/69-yr-old-covid-19-suspect-woman-dies/articleshow/75112031.cms||Mehak Jain
April 13, 2020||Hyderabad||Uber offers Rs 25 crore grants to driver partners||HYDERABAD: Cab aggregator Uber on Sunday said its driver partners have started receiving grants from the pool of Rs 25 crore deposited by Uber into the Uber Care Driver Fund, created in partnership with social enterprises Give India and Samhita. The UCDF is transferring small grants into the accounts of driver partners every day to help them meet their immediate needs, Uber said. Uber said it aims to raise an additional Rs 25 crore through contributions from its employees, riders, CSR funds and citizens through a partnership with Milaap, a leading crowdfunding organization, to look after the welfare and wellbeing of driver partners on its platform. Uber employees have already contributed Rs 17 lakh to the fund. UberMedic, UberEssential and Uber’s delivery service driver partners are also eligible for grants under this initiative, it said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/uber-offers-rs-25cr-grants-to-driver-partners/articleshow/75113291.cms||---
April 13, 2020||Mumbai||2/3rds of Maharashtra patients have no symptom||MUMBAI: Around 65-70% of the nearly 1,600 Covid-19 patients currently undergoing treatment in the state are said to be asymptomatic —not exhibiting any symptoms. The remaining have mild to moderate symptoms, while less than 20% are in critical care, said a state official. WHO says there is no evidence yet to show that an asymptomatic person can spread the infection, report Sumitra Deb Roy & Malathy Iyer. However, it doesn't exclude the possibility that it may occur. Evidence shows that primary transmission happens from symptomatic people through respiratory droplets, among others. ‘In 80% of cases in Mumbai, no major symptom seen’Gujarat recently became one of the first states in the country to decide that those above 85 years of age, who are positive but are asymptomatic, will be allowed to stay at home. The option would be extended only if the family gave an undertaking that they would adhere to protocols. However, Maharashtra government doesn’t seem to be thinking on these lines yet.  Dr Anup Kumar Yadav, commissioner, National Health Mission said that most patients in hospitals now don't have major symptoms. “However, we can’t allow them to stay at home. We have seen that the quarantine measures are not followed appropriately,” he said. The protocols could be revaluated in case there was a big surge in cases. “If there is a big rise, we will definitely prioritise the symptomatic cases. But as of now, everyone will be treated in hospitals and discharged only they have tested negative in two consecutive tests,” he added. The union health ministry on Sunday said that though the number of Covid-19 cases has increased from 979 on March 29 to 8,356 in India, the number of patients requiring oxygen support or critical care is around 1671 or 20%. On March 29, the number of patients in need of critical care across India was 196. The ministry reiterated that at this stage there were enough beds to tackle critical cases. In Mumbai too, the clinical manifestations in patients have been similar to the rest of the state and the country. Dr Daksha Shah said that up to 80% positive in the city don't have major symptoms. However, additional municipal commissioner S Kakani said that Mumbai's social demographics is such that one cannot keep suspected patients at their homes, which may be too small to maintain the norms of social distancing. “Hence, we prefer to keep people in quarantine facilities that have 1- or 2-metre distance between two beds,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/2/3rds-of-state-patients-have-no-symptom/articleshow/75113603.cms||Malathy Iyer
April 13, 2020||Delhi||Colour splash: Artists ideate on masks||NEW DELHI: Forget the baby blue that the surgeons favour or the bland grey and white that industrial workers like. Keeping the rampaging novel coronavirus from entering your mouth or nostril could do with a more colourful effort. And so it is that artists associated with Delhi Street Art, an initiative promoting art in public spaces, are now extending their creativity to mask making. In keeping with safety norms, there is no gathering of the artists to work on the masks. Each individual project takes place at homes. “We hold virtual meetings to discuss things and share ideas 3-4 times a week,” explained DSA chief Yogesh Saini. The face coverings are being repurposed from old leftover cloths and scraps and discarded T-shirts, curtains, kurtis, etc. The end products, therefore, add a cheer to the depressive situation with turquoise and gold motifs against an appealing fuchsia ground, busy tribal lines in white against black and happy paisleys in attractive contrasts. The masks are functionally sound and sanitised before use. “They are all handmade,” asserted an artist. “We have set a target for making 75 of these for the first immediate lot.” The masks are meant to be given to cancer patients and their caregivers, and will be distributed through cancer support organisations that count as members some of Delhi Street Art’s members.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/colour-splash-artists-ideate-on-masks/articleshow/75131579.cms||---
April 13, 2020||Hubballi||KU goes online to complete syllabus but rural students left in the lurch||DHARWAD: The undergraduate and postgraduate students of Karnatak University and its affiliated colleges are in a fix as their syllabus has not been completed due to the lockdown. The suspension of classes in the first week of March had disrupted academic activities. The 2019-2020 academic year was scheduled to close on April 10. The semester examinations were slated in May followed by evaluation of answer scripts and announcement of results in May-June. The higher education task force suggested online classes and Karnatak University issued a circular to constituent colleges and postgraduate departments to inform within four days the portion of syllabus which remains uncovered and the measures they propose to complete it. The circular suggested the use of online tools like Zoom, WhatApp, YouTube and email to complete the syllabus. Meanwhile, before receiving suggestions, Karnatak University directed colleges and PG departments to hold classes online. The departments of political science and economics have already commenced classes online. Other departments have been asked to start on Monday. The university has decided to use Zoom app wherein over 100 students can take part in interactive session at a time. A professor said the faculty have already updated all the digital platforms through which online classes can be held. Through this mode, audio-visual and audio lessons can also be recorded and heard several times. However, the decision to conduct the classes online will not benefit students from the rural areas who do not have the required facility. Only government college students have been provided with laptops and others do not have any such facility, said a principal. He said it will be difficult to effectively teach students from rural areas, particularly in subjects like science, maths and English. “In our college where nearly 90% of the students come from rural areas, many do not have smartphones to access WhatsApp, YouTube or Zoom app. We don’t know how to go about it,” said Mohan Siddhanti, principal, KE Board’s First Grade College, Dharwad.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hubballi/ku-goes-online-to-complete-syllabus-but-rural-students-left-in-the-lurch/articleshow/75111261.cms||GURURAJ JAMKHANDI
April 13, 2020||Hyderabad||Telangana: Four booked for spitting on road||HYDERABAD: Rachakonda police booked four persons for spitting on roads in the last two days. Two residents of Malkapuram village, Choutuppal were caught spitting on the road in Abdullapurmet. They were riding towards Kothaguda from Malkapuram of Choutuppal and when they reached Kothaguda check post, the duo negligently spat on the road on JSunday. Similar cases were reported at Champapet checkpost on Saturday, while a resident of Old Santoshnagar Colony was booked for spitting at P&T Colony, Saroornagar on Sunday. All the four were booked under IPC sections 188 (disobedience to order duly promulgated by a public servant) and 269 (negligent act likely to spread infection of disease dangerous to life).||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/four-booked-for-spitting-on-road/articleshow/75113608.cms||---
April 13, 2020||Kolhapur||Man pretending to be a government employee arrested||KOLHAPUR: Gokul Shirgaon police have arrested a 33-year-old man for impersonating as a clerk working in the district collectorate and roaming in an SUV with national emblem and board of Government of Maharashtra on the vehicle. The arrested suspect has been identified as Gajanan Ravindra Patil, a resident of Kaneri, taluka Karveer. “Our police team on duty obstructed the SUV at Kaneriwadi village and when we questioned the driver, he said that he was working in district collectorate as clerk and was on special duty. When we enquired with the officials of district collectorate, they said that no person with such name and identity is an employee of government. We immediately took action and arrested him,” said a police officer attached with Gokul Shirgaon police station. He is booked under section 171 (Wearing grab or carrying token used by public servant with fraudulent intent), 188 (Disobedience to order duly promulgated by public servant) and 269 (Negligent act likely to spread infection of disease dangerous to life) of IPC and section 51 of National Disaster Management Act, 2005, section 11 of Maharashtra Covid-19 Act, 2020 and several sections of Prevention of Epidemic Act, 1897. Continuing their action against those involved in circulating messages on social media platforms, Kolhapur police registered one more case on Sunday against one person for allegedly spreading such messages. So far, police have taken action against 628 people that were found roaming on road without any valid reason and have seized their motorcycles. Police have also recovered fine worth Rs 1.15 lakh from them.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolhapur/man-pretending-to-be-a-government-employee-arrested/articleshow/75112867.cms||---
April 13, 2020||Hyderabad||Two special flights evacuate 165 US nationals, screened for symptoms||HYDERABAD: Two special passenger charter flights evacuated 165 US nationals from the city on Sunday. The first flight of Air India — AI 1615 (arrivals) /AI 1616 (departures), an Airbus A320 aircraft — landed at the Rajiv Gandhi International Airport, Shamshabad, at 2.13pm from Mumbai and departed with 82 US-bound passengers (81 adults and an infant) at 3.15pm to Mumbai. The second special flight of Air India — AI 1617 (arrivals) /AI 1618 (departures), also an Airbus A 320 aircraft — landed 2.54pm from Mumbai and departed with 83 US-bound passengers (82 adults and an infant) at 3.51pm to Mumbai. The passengers were to be further connected with Delta Airlines from Mumbai to their final destination in the US. In coordination with the US Consulate and the Telangana government, the US-bound passengers started to reach the Shamshabad airport between 12noon and 2pm from various parts of the city. All these passengers were serviced through the fully-sanitized main passenger terminal building, which has been kept ready for evacuation operations. Passengers were screened for any Covid-19-like symptoms and subjected to thermal screening. Meanwhile, passengers continued to complain about poor treatment at the Mumbai airport, where they said staff had been rude and basic necessities were not provided.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/two-special-flights-evacuate-165-us-nationals-screened-for-symptoms/articleshow/75113292.cms||---
April 13, 2020||Hyderabad||Telangana: Liquor worth Rs 1.4 lakh seized from car in Bolarum, three booked||HYDERABAD: Bolarum police apprehended three persons, including a local TV channel stringer, for transporting 32 bottles of whiskey worth Rs 1.4 lakh on Saturday. The stringer, B Venugopal Reddy, with his uncle Ranga Reddy and a friend Sunil, were intercepted when they were travelling in a Hyundai Verna car, that did not have a front registration plate. The police stopped the vehicle at the Bolarum Checkpost at around 12 noon and found 32 bottles of different brands of whiskey from the vehicle’s dickey. “We have registered a case against the trio under Sections 188, 269, 270 of the IPC, section 51 of Disaster Management Act and section 34-a of the Excise Act. During questioning, the accused said that Ranga Reddy purchased the liquor on March 1 for a family function which was scheduled for March 2. However, due to death in the family, the event got cancelled. On Saturday, they were transporting the liquor bottles to the house of a relative in Ghatkesar for a soon to be organised function,” Bolarum inspector P Ramesh Reddy said. The accused were issued a notice under section 41 of CrPC asking them to appear for questioning. Trimulgherry Traffic police registered a separate case against Venugopal Reddy. It was found that 10 traffic challans are pending against the accused. “The accused said that they were not indulging in illegal sale of liquor. But the vehicle came to the notice as it was frequently passing through the check points. We have to verify further,” said a North Zone police official. In another incident, Ramagundam police arrested a bootlegger and seized 1,890 bottles of liquor hidden in a rice mill. The police conducted a surprise check at a rice mill owned by G Santosh at Boipallay in Tandur mandal of Mancherial district on Saturday night and seized 180 bottles of beer and whiskey. Police arrested Santosh and he confessed to have procured the liquor from associates of local liquor stores to sell them during lockdown. Police also arrested B Sagar for operating a medical store illegally at Mancherial Bus stand complex and selling sleeping pills to addicts without a prescription to make some quick money.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/liquor-worth-rs-1-4l-seized-from-car-in-bolarum-three-booked/articleshow/75113296.cms||---
April 13, 2020||Bhopal||Shivraj favours extension of curbs||Bhopal: In a video conferencing of CMs with PM Narendra Modi, Madhya Pradesh chief minister, Shivraj Singh Chouhan on Saturday recommended extension of the lockdown in the country. The 21-day lockdown announced by Modi will end on April 14. Modi interacted with CMs from various states of the country through video conferencing to elicit their views on the current status of Coronavirus menace in their respective state and whether the lockdown period should be extended further. Chouhan told the PM that he was not in favour of lifting the lockdown in the country at this stage. He also briefed the PM on steps being taken in MP to contain the menace and factors which contributed to spurt in the number of COVID-19 patients. Chouhan said that there was a spurt in the number of persons with Coronavirus infection in MP following the return of infected persons from Markaz at Delhi. But migrant workers, who returned to MP following the lockdown, were generally free from Coronavirus infection, he said. The chief minister said that testing capacity in MP was being enhanced, PPE kits and N-95 masks were being distributed among the vulnerable sections and 23 hospitals have been identified for treatment of Coronavirus infection. He said his government has formulated a four-layered plan to contain the spread of the virus. Indore and Bhopal, the two worst-affected districts have been divided into zones to restrict the movement of people. Steps have been taken to ensure functioning of the drug industry. Farmers have been allowed use of harvester while Rabi procurement would begin soon. The number of procurement centres are being increased to make sure there is no rush at one place. The state government also had a meeting with bankers in which they were requested to disburse money to people at the panchayat level. The amount of stipend and money against the mid-day meal scheme of students has been deposited in the bank account of their parents while the amount of social pension scheme has also been transferred in the account of beneficiaries. LPG cylinders and money in Jan Dhan accounts have also started coming. The chief minister praised the “Arogya Setu” mobile app and said people are getting acquainted with it and it is helping in tracking the Coronavirus patients. Available data is also helping to trace the hot spots. Praising the Prime Minister for his “exemplary leadership” during these trying times, he said his leadership is being praised the world over for effective control over the spread of Coronavirus and expressed the confidence that India under his leadership would successfully overcome the Coronavirus threat.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/shivraj-favours-extension-of-curbs/articleshow/75113606.cms||---
April 13, 2020||Hyderabad||Ensure every meal is well-cooked and nutritious, says clinical dietician||Hyderabad: Every meal must be cooked well and consumed hot, said reputed nutritionist and clinical dietician (Sunshine Hospitals), Dr Radha Reddy Chada, while allaying the fears of people about consuming non-vegetarian food or ordering a home delivery. “It is for the convenience of some people that this service (of ordering food) has been made available to us. But, instead of ordering junk food, we should ensure that we get food that meets the essential nutritional needs. It should be freshly cooked and preferably consumed immediately. This is true for non-veg food as well,” Dr Chada said, during a Facebook Live with TOI on food and fitness in times of Covid-19, on Sunday. While clarifying that there isn’t any specific diet charted for patients who test positive for Covid-19 (those on oral diets), she said that they are advised to eat healthy food with a generous dose of fresh fruits, vegetables and proteins. “In fact, each of us must consume good amount of fruits and vegetables — can have up to five servings a day of 100 grams each. Also, Vitamin C — lime juice or oranges — are advisable,” the dietician said. Stressing the need for physical activity, while under lockdown, Dr Chada said that was important to do some form of muscle-building exercises — either skipping, yoga or a run on the treadmill every day. “Depending on the level of exertion that your body can handle — given your age, health conditions etc — you can spend anywhere between 30 minutes to one hour in physical activity. Doing household work is also another way of being active,” she said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/ensure-every-meal-is-well-cooked-and-nutritious-says-clinical-dietician/articleshow/75113299.cms||---
April 13, 2020||Kolhapur||Milk tanker driver booked for carrying passengers||KOLHAPUR: City police have caught a driver of a milk tanker, belonging to Kolhapur District Cooperative Milk Association (Gokul), for carrying passengers in the vehicle from Navi Mumbai to Kolhapur. The driver and one of the passengers have been admitted to the Chhatrapati Pramila Raje (CPR) civil hospital. A case against the duo has been registered at Gokul Shirgaon police station under various sections of the IPC and Epidemic Diseases Act. According to police, the driver transports milk from Gokul to its subsidiary in Navi Mumbai’s Vashi. On Saturday, the driver carried around three to four passengers with him in the vehicle. One of the passengers was dropped near Kaneri phata in Kagal. “We got information from our sources about this and immediately searched for the driver and the passengers. We have managed to catch the driver and one of the passengers, and they have been admitted to the CPR hospital. They will be tested for Cvid-19 and remain under observation for 14 days,” an officer attached with Gokul Shirgaon police station. “The initial investigation suggests that the driver had charged Rs 7,000 from each passenger. We have also got information that he was carrying around 3 to 4 more passengers from Vashi and they were dropped at various spots on the Pune-Bangalore National Highway. We are searching for them and will soon catch them,” he added. An official from Gokul said, “The driver works with us and transports milk from Kolhapur to our plant at Vashi. However, we are not aware if he was involved in carrying passengers. As per our policy, the drivers are not allowed to carry passengers in the tankers. Such acts will not be tolerated.” Superintendent of police Abhinav Deshmukh has already issued instructions to all the police stations in the district to register cases against drivers of vehicles who are found involved in illegal transport of passengers during the lockdown.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolhapur/milk-tanker-driver-booked-for-carrying-passengers/articleshow/75112873.cms||---
April 13, 2020||Kolhapur||Door-to-door survey helps KMC check virus spread||KOLHAPUR: The door-to-door survey initiated to find the people infected with coronavirus or atleast those showing symptoms associated with the infection even before the lockdwon came into effect has helped the civic administration to keep a check on the spread of the virus. The door-to-door survey crossed the half-way mark on Sunday as 77,000 of the 1,40,000 families in the city have been surveyed so far. Through the survey, the Kolhapur Municipal Corporation (KMC) has identified 230 people who were required to be put in institutional quarantine. Over 300 people have been strictly advised home-quarantine. Authorities in the civic administration said that the door-to-door survey was initiated much before the first confirmed Covid-19 case— that of a person who travelled from Pune—was reported. Currently, the survey is being conducted in the slums where people are less organised and chances of community transmission—the third stage of coronavirus considered to be uncontrollable—are higher. Municipal commissioner Mallinath Kalshetti said, “We have adopted an integrated approach to tackle the virus spread. The first round of disinfecting the public places is complete. The survey helped us identify the suspects. It also helped us isolate the people who travelled from the high-risk countries or cities. The early start gave us an edge to curb the spread of the infection. After the quarantine period ends, we check the health status of the suspects and then let them go home.” Kalshetti has been visiting the slum areas and speaking to the locals there. Many of the people residing in the slums are from outside the state. Kalshetti requested them to follow lockdown and social distancing rules. As of now, three people from the city have tested positive for the contagion.While two people have a travel history, the third patient is a local who got infected from the first confirmed case. The immediate steps to seal the localities and the door-to-door survey has helped curb the transmission. A team of doctors and nursing staff from each of the 11 urban health centres visit the residences in their jurisdiction. The teams seek details of the people who have had a travel history or those who are showing symptoms associated with the infection. A doctor from one of the 11 teams said, “People tend to hide details of their travel history. We seek information from the locals. Many do not want to be in institutional quarantine, which has to be compulsorily observed for 14 days. We assure that they will not face any inconvenience. We have asked all the people with travel history to get admitted in institutional quarantine.” Officials said that nowadays, people were more vigilant and immediately reported about any person having a travel history. They force such people to get screened and get the home-quarantine mark stamped on their hands.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolhapur/door-to-door-survey-helps-kmc-check-virus-spread/articleshow/75112884.cms||---
April 13, 2020||Bhopal||Supply of food and essentials fail people under lockdown||Bhopal: Distribution and supply on essential items and food have totally failed in the state capital putting the population under lockdown to greater hardships. Helpline nos. publicised for people to access in case of need for ration or food are not being responsive.It’s not that the phones are not picked or complaint is not registered. If caller in lucky the phone is answered but nothing happens after that, complain people from slum areas and social workers, who have pitched in help to such needy.“Every time you make a demand or lodge a complaint about ration, vegetables, medicines or anything, the most common helpline no. given to you is 181, the CM Helpline no., which is now dedicated to redressing complaints relating to COVID-19 or allied subjects. They do register the complaint, but go no further. Earlier, they used to give complaint no. so that you could pursue the matter and see what action has been taken on your complaint but now, they don’t give complaint no. either”, said a government servant on the condition of anonymity.He had made a call for food to people living on the footpath at Banskhedi. “I had gone to distribute food packets for them myself, but they fell short as several people converged at the spot. I made a call then, but they said that only ration can be provided to people (five kg of wheat flour). I said at least provide them that but a week later, they have not received anything.Shezadi, a resident of Blue Moon Colony in Old Bhopal, said “There are several families in my colony, who have nothing to eat. I had also made a call on 181 six days ago. I requested to send some ration for those families. They said only five kg atta (wheat flour) could be provided, but five days on, we are still waiting for them to come”. Shezadi said that she had called up a Bhopal Municipal Corporation (BMC) official, who said “Keep your ration card and Samagra ID ready. We shall give the needy families five kg of wheat flour but he, too, didn’t turn up.Louise, who is working to provide food to residents of Gas Widows’ Colony in Karond, said that once he called up 181 at 8.30 pm to request for food to an elderly widow but they said that they don’t give food after 8.00 pm.He said that there were several people working to provide food to the residents of the colony, many of whom are elderly and alone, but after the complete lockdown and subsequent police action, they are not coming either.District administration spokesperson, Arun Kumar Rathore, when told that helpline no. given by the district administration to request for food or ration were not being responsive, said “There is a BMC official, who is the nodal officer for food. If someone doesn’t get food from anywhere, he should be contacted.” BMC administration said the nodal officer is Vinod Kumar Shukla and his no. is 9424499775.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/supply-of-food-and-essentials-fail-people-under-lockdown/articleshow/75113627.cms||---
April 13, 2020||Hyderabad||Telangana postpones all entrance tests||HYDERABAD: In view of the lockdown being extended till April 30, the Telangana government has postponed all the common entrance tests (CET) including Eamcet, ICET, Lawcet among others. Eamcet, was set to be held between May 2 and May 11. Similarly, physical education CET was scheduled on May 13, followed by integrated CET for admissions into management courses on May 20, education CET on May 23, law CET and post-graduate (PG) law CET on May 27 and PG engineering CET on May 28 and May 31. “The last date for payment of fee without late fee for all TSCETs-2020 is extended up to May 5 and all CETs exams are postponedThe new dates of CETS-2020 exams will be announced after consultation with the government,” says a press release issued by Telangana State Council of Higher Education. TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/state-postpones-all-entrance-tests/articleshow/75113301.cms||---
April 13, 2020||Hyderabad||IIIT-H dishing out nutritious meals||Hyderabad: The community kitchen at International Institute of Information Technology, Hyderabad (IIIT-H) has been dishing out nutritious and wholesome packed meals to about 300 people daily. The institute, in association with Telangana Social Impact Group (T-SIG) and the state government, managed to cook and pack 2,561 meal boxes in the last eight days. These meal boxes were distributed to migrant workers, daily wage earners, homeless, volunteers, and police personnel. “The focus is on one-pot meals like khichdi, rajma-chawal, chole-chawal, dalia upma, jeera rice-aloo baingan, and others. Basically, we try to see that it can be cooked in one big degchi,” said Aniket Alam, a professor at IIIT-H. He said the menu is well thought of, with emphasis on nutrition and wholesomeness. “Each meal finds a different menu item and even the humble khichdi has different variants,” he said and added that each day, approximately 150-160 meal boxes are prepared and dispatched at 12 pm and 5.30 pm. Raj Janagam, who coordinates on behalf of T-SIG, said, “In terms of variety and taste, IIIT-H’s packed meals have received very good feedback. Most other organizations serve either only khichdi or sambar rice.” Kitchen staff along with the volunteers comprising the faculty, staff, students, and their families are part of the initiative.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/iiit-h-dishing-out-nutritious-meals/articleshow/75113314.cms||---
April 13, 2020||Nagpur||Mercury rising: Lockdown casualty is the humble cooler||Nagpur: The ongoing lockdown is a reason that in many Nagpur homes, an annual ‘cool’ visitor has still not arrived. Usually by first week of April, majority of homes install desert coolers to beat rising temperatures, but the lockdown means that a cool relief is still elusive. With electrical shops closed and movement of electricians also restricted, old cooler panels continue to gather dust while new ones still remain locked in the showrooms. Rakesh Awachat, director of Ram Coolers, said, “Almost 85% of cooler sales happen between mid-March to May. Dealers have already stocked inventory in March, but due to lockdown no sales are happening. If we open in May, sales season may be salvaged else inventory will spill over to next year.” This way, manufacturers will take a hit in 2021 as well. Demand for coolers is high as ever with calls coming from customers, who are panicking due the extended lockdown and rising temperatures. Even a manufacturer like Awachat is receiving calls directly from desperate customers. “A lady called saying she is pregnant and urgently needs a cooler to be installed, but I am helpless,” said Awachat. An electrician who specializes in cooler installations told TOI that select customers are being serviced discreetly. “We usually go early in the morning and only to individual homes, not apartments. But on Saturday, a few electricians were rounded up at Sadar police station for going to install coolers, and that message spread fast in our circle due to which no one is taking the risk,” he said. Cost of ‘wood wool’, the cheap and popular replacement for khus that was used in panels, has also risen. The electrician said, “It’s selling for Rs100 per kg near Teka Naka (Kamptee Road), up from last year’s Rs60 a kg, at certain shops which still operate somehow.” Nitesh Agrawal, an AC dealer, said, “Many customers are awaiting repairs. On an average, we get five calls daily asking for repairman to be sent for servicing. We know they are in trouble, but there is nothing which can be done.” Some netizens have appealed to the police for opening up cooler and electrical shops so that they can prepare for the summer ahead. Awachat said, “This problem can be solved if we are given permission to take orders online, over the phone, and directly ship the cooler to customer’s home.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/mercury-rising-lockdown-casualty-is-the-humble-cooler/articleshow/75112889.cms||Abhishek Choudhari
April 13, 2020||Mysuru||Leopard on prowl caged||Mysuru: A 4-year-old leopard on the prowl in HD Kote taluk was trapped in a cage placed by the forest department. Residents of Alanahalli village found the leopard trapped on Sunday and informed the forest department. After medical check-up, the leopard was released into DB Kuppe forest range under Nagarahole Tiger Reserve. The department had placed the cage with a bait in the village after the residents there said they have spotted a prowling leopard in the region.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mysuru/leopard-on-prowl-caged/articleshow/75110593.cms||---
April 13, 2020||Goa||After protest, TTAG gets member on economy panel||PANAJI: The state government on Saturday constituted a 16-member committee to study the impact of the Covid-19 pandemic on various industries, but the tourism sector, despite being among the worst hit, found no representation on the panel. It was only after the trade body Travel and Tourism Association of Goa (TTAG) registered its protest that late on Saturday evening, that the government agreed to make a concession by including TTAG past president Francisco de Braganca. The order was awaited. TTAG managing committee had suggested that Braganca be nominated to represent the trade body on the Covid-19 economic assessment committee. Outgoing president Savio Messias confirmed that Braganca’s name had been forwarded to the government. As per TTAG’s early estimates, Goa’s tourism sector may lose 60,000-70,000 jobs spread over the next few months due to the pandemic. A tourism stakeholder said the non-inclusion of TTAG on the original committee came as a huge disappointment. “Tourism is a major sector that provides employment and is also a major source of revenue to the state,” he said. Hotelier Ralf de Souza said it is a good thing that the government formed a committee and the trade body can present its studied proposal to the committee. “It must be understood that unlike other industries — which will be able to resume their operations immediately once lockdown is lifted — the tourism sector will not ,” de Souza said. “Any epidemic is a time when people choose to stay at home in a familiar environment, rather than travel. In such a scenario, the hospitality industry is badly hit ,” he said. Even months after the lockdown is lifted, many will not even able to break even, he said. “I do not see the hospitality industry returning to normalcy before October 2021,” de Souza said.  “Other important segments of the tourism industry such taxi operators and shacks should also be counted, while assessing the impact of the pandemic,” a trade member said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/after-protest-ttag-gets-member-on-econ-panel/articleshow/75113321.cms||Bindiya Chari
April 13, 2020||Kolhapur||KMC starts taking measures to prevent floods this monsoon||KOLHAPUR: Besides disinfecting the areas from where confirmed Covid-19 cases are being reported and conducting door-to-door survey, the civic administration has now taken on another task. It is clearing the obstructions in the drainage system to reduce the chances of flooding in the city during monsoon. Last year, heavy rainfall led the water levels in the Panchaganga river to rise much above the danger-mark, paralysing city life for almost a month. Over 10,000 people living in the low-lying areas had to be evacuated. Since the Kolhapur Municipal Corporation (KMC) had taken efforts well in advance before the monsoon, the number of people who had to be evacuated was much less than for some towns located along the riverbank. Hence, this year too, the civic administration has started taking preparations anticipating the floods during monsoon. Municipal commissioner Mallinath Kalshetti said, “We have chalked out a plan to reduce the chances of flooding. The first and foremost thing that we have to do is get the drains and nullahs cleaned, remove the silt, widen the nullah stretches and remove other obstructions.” “Most of our staff is currently engaged with the disinfection drives, door-to-door survey and other measures to curb the spread of coronavirus. However, we have spared some staff and machinery to begin the first among the several tasks that we have to take to avert floods,” said Kalshetti. Experts have advised the civic body to get all the major nullahs cleaned. The choked nullahs put pressure on the backwaters of the river, thereby flooding many parts of the city especially the western flanked areas. Last year, the major nullahs were cleared and made free of obstructions ahead of the monsoon, which prevented inundation of many localities along the river stretch. This year, the civic body is focussing on cleaning the minor streams and making them free flowing, besides clearing the major nullahs. The KMC has hired heavy machinery to remove the silt. Experts have advised that since the lockdown is in place, the sewage generation is much less and there is ample scope to widen the nullahs. Obstructions like construction debris and plant growth leads to overflowing of the nullahs. The filthy waste water enters the residential societies, thereby causing health problems. The waste water from households fails to get drained if the nullahs remain choked. “All the underground drains will be made free of obstructions in the next two months. We don’t know how much it will pour this monsoon. What we know is that we can avert a flood-like situations if we remain prepared well in advance,” said Kalshetti.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolhapur/kmc-starts-taking-measures-to-prevent-floods-this-monsoon/articleshow/75112894.cms||---
April 13, 2020||Hyderabad||Cyberabad police conduct blood donation drive, urge citizens to help||HYDERABAD: A blood donation drive was conducted by the Cyberabad police and Society for Cyberabad Security Council (SCSC) on Sunday to help the 1,723 Thalassemia patients in state. The drive was held at the Indian Red Cross Society in Vidyanagar. The reserves in blood banks in the city are at an all-time low, owing to Covid-19 lockdown. This is a cause of concern for Thalassemia patients who require blood transfusions twice a month. Apart from police staff and volunteers, VC Sajjanar, the Cyberabad commissioner of police, Krishna Yedula, SCSC general secretary, and CTC Dr Sukumar also donated blood. Cyberabad AR Staff and SCSC volunteers donated 117 units of blood. Each person donated 300 ml of blood, the police said. “If one person steps up to donate blood, they are helping three people live. There is a wrong notion that poeple wil become weak by donating blood. This is a myth,” said Sajjanar. Sajjanar requested citizens who intend to donate blood, to contact Cyberabad Covid-19 Control Room numbers 9490617440 or 9490617431 and register their name. A police vehicle will be arranged, if needed, to transport the donor from their residence to the Indian Red Cross society and back.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/cyberabad-police-conduct-blood-donation-drive-urge-citizens-to-help/articleshow/75113323.cms||---
April 13, 2020||Hyderabad||CII Telangana moots Covid-19 innovation pool||Hyderabad: Urging innovators to use IPR judiciously in the time of Covid-19 crisis, apex trade and industry body Confederation of Indian Industry (CII) on Sunday proposed setting up of ‘COVID Innovation and IP Pool’ to accelerate the pace of innovation as well its adoption. As per CII, there has been a surge in the number of applicants filing trademarks for ‘Coronavirus’ and ‘COVID’ related marks and many firms might be unaware of the fact that they may end up stepping into other’s IP and brands which may result in legal battle with brand owners later. “For universities it is time to file IPs on Covid-19 related research and get their due recognition as after the crisis there might be instances of multiple innovators claiming rights on the same innovation,” CII said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/cii-telangana-moots-covid-19-innovation-pool/articleshow/75113322.cms||---
April 13, 2020||Hyderabad||Telangana: KTR a tweet away for citizens in times of Covid-19||HYDERABAD: Telangana information technology minister K Taraka Rama Rao has emerged as a one point contact for dozens of distressed people across the state, who have lost their loved ones. From someone living in a remote part of Telangana with emergency healthcare requirement to those wanting to rush back to their native places in neighbouring states to attend funerals of their loved ones, KTR has been a saving grace. Dear sir,my father in law expired today morning at vemulavada and am struck in Hyderabad Pragathi Nagar we requeste… https://t.co/jkqBPk8HEn— Arun Rao (@raju296) 1586671700000. “Dear sir, my father-in-law expired today morning at Vemulavada and am struck in Hyderabad Pragathi Nagar. We requested you please help us to get to Vemulavada to attend the funeral rites @KTRTRS @KTRoffice,” tweeted Arun Rao. He is also responding to many requests from abroad.“Kiran, I am very sorry for your loss. I am told that international travel restrictions will continue till the end of the month. Not sure what we can do at this point other than to pray for more strength to you and your family,” the minister tweeted. Responding to many such SOS tweets, KTR instructed his office personnel to assist people immediately. Though he holds several key portfolios such as industry and commerce, information technology ans MA&UD apart from being the working president of Telangana Rashtra Samithi (TRS), KTR is known to resolve issues on social media with over 2.1 million followers.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/ktr-a-tweet-away-for-citizens-in-times-of-covid-19/articleshow/75113346.cms||---
April 13, 2020||Mangaluru||Govt college in Mangaluru goes online to keep students on the learning curve||MANGALURU: Giving the lie to the commonly held misconception about government educational institutions not being tech savvy, University College, Mangaluru is utilising technology to the optimal extent to ensure that syllabus is completed on time. On the one hand, students and teachers are using WhatsApp to share notes, while lecturers are using Zoom to take lessons and ensure continuity. In fact, it has not all been unidirectional, with the varsity management alone trying to keep the students engaged. In many cases, the students have themselves reached out to teachers, asking them to take online classes. College principal Uday Kumar MA hearkened to the age-old maxim of necessity driving innovations and said that the online classes had helped boost confidence among both teachers and students. “Students and teachers are coordinating among themselves and WhatsApp groups are being formed for specific subjects. Teachers are exploring new methods such as circulating notes on WhatsApp, etc.,” said Uday Kumar. Mangalore University had initially scheduled examinations for undergraduate courses from April 24, but the spread of the virus and the ensuing lockdown has deferred the examination indefinitely. Associate professor in the department of mathematics at the college Subrahmanya Bhat said, “We have launched online classes as a pilot project, and a group of around 30 students are part of the online class. We have about 10% of this year’s syllabus to complete.” Bhat, a Puttur resident, has been taking classes for final year undergraduate students on Zoom. “I am hoping to reach out to first- and second-year students as well. Once teachers and students get used to it, the atmosphere is very like a real classroom,” he said. The head of the department of mathematics Chethana and Shobhitha are the other teachers who are taking online classes, each of which last 40 minutes. Nagarathna N Rao, an associate professor in the Hindi department, has been holding classes for final-year postgraduate students. She holds these classes every day, scheduled according to the convenience of most students. “It is really heartening to see the interest among the students to attend these online classes. Both the varsity and the University Grants Commission have issued circulars asking colleges to conduct online classes,” she said. Preparing students for Covid-19 Nagarathna KA, a lecturer in the zoology department at the college and Mangalore University’s NSS coordinator, is holding online classes to ensure that all programme officers and NSS volunteers of all the varsity’s affiliate colleges are acquainted with the medical aspects of the Covid-19 infection with the help of experts. She is reaching out to one college every day as part of her initiative.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mangaluru/govt-college-in-mangaluru-goes-online-to-keep-students-on-the-learning-curve/articleshow/75111328.cms||Deepthi Sanjiv
April 13, 2020||Hyderabad||Popularising hand wash and the Hungarian hand behind it||HYDERABAD: In these times of coronavirus, washing your hands seems like the most obvious thing to do. But this was not always the case. And if Ignaz Semmelweis, a 19th century Hungarian doctor, was alive today, he would most likely be surprised that billions were hearing his pleas to fight the pandemic. Semmelweis discovered how handwashing can stop the spread of infection in 1847 in Vienna, Austria. He could drastically bring down the death rate among new mothers at the Vienna General Hospital, through his discovery that doctors working at mortuaries were bringing in cadaver particles and infections through their hands into the maternity wards. Stressing the importance of the doctor’s message today, Raja Vinjamuri, a Telugu NRI settled in Bridgeport in US is now spreading awareness on handwashing by uploading videos on Youtube. Vinjamuri has been making videos of exclusive stories from Semmelweis’ life by gathering information from Wikipedia and other sources. “I feel his life would inspire many people and they will realise the importance of clean hands as the first line of our defence,” Raja, a business development executive at Infosys, told TOI. Raja said, “It became difficult for Semmelweis to prove the existence of germs and viruses to the physicians in those days who were not ready to believe his theory. He was forcibly sent into a mental asylum, beaten and confined to a dark cell. His injuries turned infectious and killed him in August 1865 two weeks after he was confined there.” In 1865, he ironically died from the same infection he fought against his entire life.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/popularising-hand-wash-and-the-hungarian-hand-behind-it/articleshow/75113332.cms||---
April 13, 2020||Ludhiana||Who will ensure delivery boys, vendors are disease free?||Ludhiana: With the district under lockdown, hundreds of delivery boys, vegetable and milk vendors are ensuring door-to-door supply of essentials. But here is a point to ponder: the administration has not conducted their medical check-up to find out if they have Covid-19-like symptoms. The district administration has allowed 85 vegetable vendors, 1,237 grocers, 586 chemists and 183 milk vendors to work amid curfew. Most of these sellers have employees who deliver essential goods at doorsteps. Commissioner of police Rakesh Agarwal said, “They have not been medically examined, though it is an important aspect. We will, therefore, ask all those who have employed these delivery persons to get them medically examined and ensure they are not suffering from cough or fever. We will also arrange for them disposable kits that can easily test coronavirus.” Besides, there are some NGOs helping the needy whose members are giving safety measures a miss. They neither wear masks and gloves nor ensure social distancing. They too have not been examined medically. Agarwal said, “The administration too is concerned about those volunteers who are not following social distancing and hygiene while cooking and distributing food. The administration will soon streamline the process of food and ration distribution. We plan to distribute only dry ration, which is hassle free and hygienic too. A mobile application for this purpose is also being developed.” The district has about 650 delivery boys employed by different firms.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/who-will-ensure-delivery-boys-vendors-are-disease-free/articleshow/75112143.cms||Payal Dhawan
April 13, 2020||Nagpur||Summer is here, city records 41.1 degrees Celsius||Nagpur: The mercury levels at many places in Vidarbha have finally crossed the 40 degree Celsius mark, indicating the onset of harsh summers. The countrywide weather bulletin of the meteorology department said heatwave conditions are likely to develop over northwest Vidarbha on April 14 and 15. On Sunday, Nagpur recorded the highest temperature of this year till now at 41.1 degree Celsius. This was 0.6 degrees above the normal mercury levels. The maximum temperature had crossed the 40-degree mark a day earlier in the city, when it had recorded 40.3 degree Celsius. Apart from Nagpur, other parts of the region too are witnessing a spike in maximum temperatures. Akola, which surpassed 40-degrees a week back, was hottest in the region on Saturday with maximum temperature of 42 degree Celsius. It continued to be the hottest on Sunday too with the maximum temperature rising to 42.8 degree Celsius. Next in line were Amravati and Wardha, both of which had maximum temperature of 41.6 degree Celsius on Sunday. They too had touched 40 degrees a day before. Apart from these, Chandrapur, Bramhapuri and Gadchiroli recorded maximum temperatures of 40.5, 40.2 and 40 degree Celsius respectively on Sunday. Gondia and Washim are yet to touch the 40-degree mark and remained at 39.8 and 39.6 degree Celsius. However, citizens might get some respite from the increasing heat. According to the Regional Meteorological Centre (RMC), Nagpur, some parts of the region are expected to receive light to moderate rainfall along with thunderstorms due to wind discontinuity. As per the forecast, Nagpur is likely to receive a few spells of thundershowers on April 12, 14, 15 and 16. In the coming week, the maximum temperature in the city is expected to witness a rise and go up to 42-43 degree Celsius. Last month too, the city saw rainfall amid rising temperatures. As reported by TOI, Nagpur recorded the highest rainfall for the month of March in last five years. As per met officials, the ‘summer rains’ have been ‘light to moderate’ and could be because of climate variability or climate change.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/summer-is-here-city-records-41-1-degrees-celsius/articleshow/75112920.cms||Manka Behl
April 13, 2020||Jaipur||Rajasthan: Supply reduced despite rise in milk demand||JAIPUR: As many private owners have shut down the milk booths in the state capital, Jaipur dairy is struggling to deliver milk and other products even as the demand has increased manifold. In the absence of distribution channels, the supply of milk in Jaipur has been reduced from 8.25 lakh litres to 7 lakh litres per day. An official said, “After witnessing reduction in milk collection during the lockdown, the problem of distribution arose. Before the lockdown, the Rajasthan Cooperative Dairy Federation’s (RCDF) collection was 30 lakh litres per day. In the fourth week of March, it dipped to 15 lakh litres per day. As the distribution channels have been disrupted, the collection has been decreased deliberately”. At present, the demand for buttermilk, curd, shrikhand, paneer and butter is increasing continuously due to the rise in temperature. As per the records, the dairy is supplying 80,000 litres of buttermilk, 2 tons of cheese, 7 tons of ghee, 35,000 cups of curd and 8,000 packets of salted buttermilk and lassi. “The demand has increased by 20-30% in the last ten days. We are expecting it would increase further, however, we are unable to provide adequate supply,” an official said. The collection of milk has also reduced as the residents were fearing milk packets could cause infection. However, after the doubts were cleared the demand increased. “The dairy administration is fully alert regarding the prevention of coronavirus infection. In our manufacturing plant, the gates, carts and dairy campuses are being sanitised several times in a day with thermal guns. A hands-free sanitiser machine has also been installed for the employees. Along with the dairy plant, milk distillery centres are also following social distancing. Four personnel have been made nodal officers to ensure smooth supply,” added the official. The milk supply by private dairies in the state has also decreased after transportation of milk to the neighbouring districts stopped. Moreover, the demand has also dropped owing to temporary closure of the hotel industry.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/supply-reduced-despite-rise-in-milk-demand/articleshow/75113340.cms||---
April 13, 2020||Goa||Goa: From handmade masks to hot meals for needy, youth take charge||PANAJI: From meeting the shortfall of masks for frontline workers to identifying migrants in distress – youth-driven initiatives across the state are helping citizens overcome difficulties arising out of the lockdown. A second year student of DMC College and Research Centre, Saish Naik, was first informed by his NSS teacher incharge Jayesh Mayekar about the need to make citizens aware about using face covers. While most students made homemade masks and distributed them in their neighbourhoods, Saish, a Camurlim-resident, did not stop at that. Together with his 70-year-old grandmother Vedhika Naik Gaonkar, he manages to stitch 20 to 22 masks each day. “My grandmother is a tailor and had lot of waste cloth lying around. The pharmacist in our neighbourhood told me about the shortage of masks and we decided to continue stitching the masks to meet the pharmacy’s requirement,” said Saish. In Saligao, 35-year-old fashion designer Ninoshka Alvares Delaney decided to heed the PM’s call and continue paying salaries to the tailors in her workshop. It is through her maid that she and her computer consultant husband Ashley Delaney heard about a large group of migrants left stranded due to the lockdown. “Initially, we provided the migrants groceries. Then we decided to stitch masks for them as the tailor was here at our workshop, with no work. Till date, we have distributed 450 masks. We have added another tailor to scale up the production to around 40 masks a day,” Ashley said. “Now, the Red Cross has reached out to us to help meet their requirement of 3,000 masks for frontline workers. Ninoshka has consulted doctors for the specifications of the mask contour and the three layers it requires. ,” said Ashley. Another group of youth in Saligao carried out a full-fledged survey to identify the migrants in need. Donations are being raised to keep the provisions going for hundreds of stranded workers . “We are providing a week’s worth of provisions to each family. Daily wage labourers are the backbone of our economy. From baking bread, selling fish, cleaning our roads and serving tourists, they do all the essential jobs and deserve our support in times of crisis,” said volunteer Sharada Kerkar.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/from-handmade-masks-to-hot-meals-for-needy-youth-take-charge/articleshow/75113350.cms||Gauree Malkarnekar
April 13, 2020||Hyderabad||Ensure every meal is well cooked: Dr Radha Reddy Chada||HYDERABAD: Every meal must be cooked well and consumed hot, said Dr Radha Reddy Chada, a reputed nutritionist and clinical dietician (Sunshine Hospitals). She also allayed fears about consuming non-vegetarian food or ordering food online. “It is for the convenience of some people that this service (of ordering food) has been made available to us. But, instead of ordering junk food, we should ensure that we get food that meets the essential nutritional requirements. It should be freshly cooked and preferably consumed immediately. This is true for non-veg food as well,” Dr Chada said, during a Facebook Live with TOI on food and fitness in times of Covid-19, on Sunday. While stating that there isn't any specific diet chart for patients who test positive for Covid-19 (those on oral diets), she said that they are advised to eat healthy food with a generous dose of fresh fruits, vegetables and proteins. “In fact, each of us must consume good amount of fruits and vegetables - can have up to five servings a day of 100 grams each. Also, Vitamin C rich fruits- lime juice or oranges - are advisable," the dietician said. Stressing the need for physical activity, while under lockdown, Dr Chada said that it was important to do some form of muscle-building exercises - either skipping, yoga or running on the treadmill every day. “Depending on the level of exertion that your body can handle - given your age, health conditions etc - you can spend anywhere between 30 minutes to one hour on physical activity. Doing household chores is also another way of being active,” she said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/ensure-every-meal-is-well-cooked-dr-radha-reddy-chada/articleshow/75113341.cms||---
April 13, 2020||Jaipur||PPKs distributed among cops working at Ajmer hosp||Ajmer: District police on Sunday distributed Personal Protection Kits (PPKs) among the police and home guard personnels working at JLN Hospital, which has been made coronavirus treatment centre in the city. SP Kunwar Rashtradeep had sought 15 PPKs from the army along with medicines for the staff at JLN Hospital. JLN Hospital has been made a centre for coronavirus patients from Ajmer, Tonk and Nagaur. Police and home guards are deputed here from the main gate to the isolation rooms, who are working round the clock. Deputy SP Priyanka Raghuvanshi said that looking to their safety, SP Rashtradeep asked the Indian army cantonment to provide them the PPKs. The cantonment provided 15 PPKs free of cost to city police which were distributed among the police and home guard personnels. She said that police have also asked the hospital management to provide precaution medicines to them.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/ppks-distributed-among-cops-working-at-ajmer-hosp/articleshow/75113345.cms||---
April 13, 2020||Ludhiana||Unruly patients to be housed in separate quarantine wards||Ludhiana: Two days after a 22-year-old quarantined man spat all over the civil hospital male isolation ward and misbehaved with the staff, the authorities have decided to admit such patients to Level-I isolation wards and take legal action against them. A Level-I isolation ward houses those with mild symptoms. They will be given almost the same facilities as in civil hospital. Level-I isolation wards are set up in government buildings, like Meritorious School in Tagore Naga, near Hero Heart DMCH with 800 beds; PAU hostels 1, 2 and 4 with 600 beds; PAU hostel 11 with 500 beds; and Kular College of Nursing, Kishangarh, Khanna, with 500 beds. The health department will begin with Meritorious School. On April 10, the 22-year-old patient spat all around the nursing station, on tiles of male isolation ward, floor, handles and even taps of washrooms. He also rolled himself on all the beds of the ward. Civil hospital medical officer (physiatrist) Dr Vivek Goyal, said, “The patient was examined that day. He was delirious and advised routine investigation and medication. He is a suspected Covid-19 patient. His condition is improving.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/unruly-patients-to-be-housed-in-separate-quarantine-wards/articleshow/75112149.cms||Mehak Jain
April 13, 2020||Mysuru||Online courses have problems of their own, say parents||Mysuru: Not only has the lockdown forced schools to shut down, but it has also prohibited the holding of summer camps during the holidays, thereby leaving parents with the onerous responsibility of keeping their children engaged during this hiatus. Online courses have most certainly helped in ensuring that children are not glued to television screens or playing video games, with programmes that teach kids craft to specifically tailored courses to help train them for competitive examinations, parents and their wards alike are spoilt for choice. But, many parents point out that there is a flipside to this solution as well. Kusuma Varnekar, a Mysuru resident and mother of a nine-year-old boy, said that she, and most parents like her, were too apprehensive about sending their children to neighbours’ homes lest he or she contract Covid-19. “. They can neither visit their friends nor can they go to our native places. Keeping our children engaged all day is not easy,” said Kusuma. Another Mysuru resident Sushanth Rao, a software engineer, said that involving children in regular domestic activities in the house helped keep them engaged. “Both my wife and I are working from home, and when one of us is busy, the other one takes care of our child. We keep our kid engaged in activities such as gardening, drawing and even playing some old traditional games,” said Rao. Senior principal of Kautilya Vidyalaya in Mysuru L Savitha said that this period afforded parents a chance to initiate their children to hobbies that would keep them engaged into their adulthood. “Schools can also pitch in by planning worksheets for students. This is a good time to cultivate new skills among the children, and parents must think about the lockdown from this perspective,” said Savitha. Former vice-chancellor of Bangalore University MS Thimmappa said that, although online courses were not advisable for children, circumstances were such that parents were compelled to turn to new ways to engage their kids. “There is a need to counsel parents on child-rearing. There are no alternatives to learning in a classroom. It is always advisable to keep children engaged in activities and exercises that keep them away from electronic gadgets,” Thimappa said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mysuru/online-courses-have-problems-of-their-own-say-parents/articleshow/75111366.cms||---
April 13, 2020||Madurai||Tamil Nadu: 82,000 cracker industry workers to get Rs 1,000 dole||MADURAI: The monetary assistance of Rs 1,000 announced by the state government is to be distributed to nearly 82,000 employees dependent on the fireworks industry in Virudhunagar district. As Virudhunagar district is a major hub for the fireworks manufacturing industry in the country, lakhs of employees are directly and indirectly dependent on the cracker industry for their livelihood. Following the announcement of nationwide lockdown for the containment of Covid-19 spread, all the cracker units in the district were closed due to which, the livelihood of the employees was affected. Recently the state government announced that monetary assistance of Rs 1,000 would be distributed to the employees, who are dependent on the fireworks industry in the state. Following this announcement, the district administration officials have been carrying out the works of readying the list of beneficiaries. Speaking to TOI, the Virudhunagar district collector R Kannan said that there are 935 cracker units functioning in the district and nearly 82,000 employees are working in these units. He said that following the announcement, the officials from the labour department and revenue department started out the enumeration process by collecting the details of employees. Once the enumeration work is completed, Rs 1,000 would be credited in their bank accounts of the employees.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/82k-cracker-industry-workers-to-get-rs-1k-dole/articleshow/75113358.cms||Kaushik Kannan
April 13, 2020||Hyderabad||Pics of RSS men on NH spark row||Hyderabad: Photographs of lathi-wielding men of Rashtriya Swayamsevak Sangh (RSS) standing at a highway near Alair and checking the identity of commuters have gone viral on social media, sparking a row. Following the incident, Alair inspector was transferred to Rachakonda police headquarters on Sunday. Rachakonda police said that the incident took place four days ago, when some students joined the cops to volunteer. “On the first two days of the service, they came in plain clothes but on the third day they came in RSS uniform holding lathis,”police said. Police said that the students came in the uniform for photographs, however, within an hour they were sent back. Meanwhile, RSS in a press statement said that RSS swayamsevaks do not interfere in the work of the administration and perform activities only after getting proper and full approval from the local administration. “The current lockdown has created an unexpected requirement from various quarters in society,” it said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/pics-of-rss-men-on-nh-spark-row/articleshow/75113351.cms||---
April 13, 2020||Hyderabad||Cherlapally prison inmates pull double shifts to produce sanitisers||HYDERABAD: While the medical staff at government hospitals in the state are spearheading the fight against the Covid-19 pandemic, the inmates of Telangana Cherlapally Central Jail are also stepping up to do their bit. Sanitisers, masks, bleaching powder and other sanitary products are being manufactured by inmates at Cherlapally. Presently, prisoners are manufacturing close to 1,00 litres of handwash, 3,000 litres of sanitisers and 3,500 masks per day. Sources said that the inmates are working overtime at the industrial units inside the jail to meet the growing demands for sanitary products to aid health staff across government hospitals working in the Covid wards. Even prior to the coronavirus outbreak, inmates were involved with manufacturing sanitary products for a time period of six hours everyday. But now, inmates are pulling 12-hour shifts to meet the pressing requirements. By pulling double shifts, inmates have been able to produce approximately 80% more products that they do otherwise. It is only after the outbreak of coronavirus that inmates have also begun to tailor masks. As the tailoring unit had not previously dabbled in stitching masks, trainers were brought in to guide them. In order to cater to the growing sanitary kit requirements of the health care staff across the state, citizens, NGOs as well as private organisations have been chipping in. “All government organisations are purchasing sanitary items from prison. The demand is so high that at times the waiting period to deliver the products can stretch up to five to seven days,’’ officials in prisons department said. Officials said that with a few distillery companies also manufacturing sanitizers during the lockdown, the pressure on the inmates at Cherlapally has reduced considerably.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/cherlapally-prison-inmates-pull-double-shifts-to-produce-sanitisers/articleshow/75113360.cms||Srinath Vudali
April 13, 2020||Goa||Covid survey akin to cohort study: IMA||PANAJI: Indian Medical Association (IMA) – Goa, has extended full support to the government’s initiative to conduct the house to house survey in a bid to detect the community spread of Covid-19, scheduled to begin Monday. “We are committed to fighting the Covid-19 menace as a strong, united force. We support chief minister Pramod Sawant’s endeavour in this “fight to win” against Covid 19,” said IMA-Goa president Dr S Samuel Arawattigi, in a statement. Apart from detecting flu symptoms, the survey will help make available data on the prevalence of diabetes, hypertension, kidney disease and respiratory diseases, which will be like a cohort study of the entire population, the statement said. The data will be a great asset to the health department for future reference. It will also be useful to frame policies to control non-communicable diseases in the state, the association said.  IMA -Goa said the government should ensure that proper protective gear like masks and gloves are provided to all the field staff involved in the door-to-door survey. “We hope staff will take care and follow social distancing norms while conducting the survey,” it said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/covid-survey-akin-to-cohort-study-ima/articleshow/75113370.cms||---
April 13, 2020||Jaipur||Raj planning to have ‘modified’ lockdown extension||Jaipur: Chief minister Ashok Gehlot on Sunday said Rajasthan would wait for the Prime Minister to make an announcement on extending the lockdown, but the state is exploring to have a ‘modified lockdown’ based on the Centre’s response. Gehlot said the state had already set up two committees, including one on preparing a draft plan to revive economic activities, to suggest ways on how to withdraw the lockdown. Talking to reporters through a video conference here, the chief minister said, “If the lockdown is extended, will it be possible for the state to go for a local version that could be known as ‘modified lockdown’? This would depend on the Centre’s response.” Gehlot added, “Suppose the industries require interstate transport (to resume economic activities), but this won’t be possible without the Centre’s nod. So, what are the internal resources available, like labourers, that can be utilised by the state and adopt a modified lockdown.” The CM said bringing the economy back on track would be difficult and small industries would face more problems. “We suggested to the PM in video conference (on Saturday) that migrant labourers in camps be allowed to go to their native places. We are now exploring how these labourers can be utilised. Implementing the lockdown was easy, but opening it has become a challenge. The state’s revenue generation has dropped to less than 15% of what it used to be,” Gehlot said. The CM said Rajasthan has been tackling the spread of coronavirus effectively, but Jaipur has become a challenge for the state government. Gehlot said the city’s Ramganj area has high population density so the Bhilwara model was being modified according to the local needs. “The state would go for maximum testing as people even without symptoms are testing positive. Ten lakh testing kits have been ordered and SMS hospital’s testing facilities have been increased from 200 to 500,” he said. The CM, however, denied that the disease has reached the ‘community spreading’ stage. The health department is focusing on developing more quarantine facilities in the city. Gehlot said 20,000 PPE kits have been acquired, while order has been placed for another 1.5 lakh of these, for the covid-19 teams. He claimed that one lakh food packets were being distributed to the poor in Jaipur alone.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/raj-planning-to-have-modified-lockdown-extension/articleshow/75113362.cms||---
April 13, 2020||Madurai||E-ticket agents in Tamil Nadu urge airlines to refund airfare||MADURAI: The members of the Tamil Nadu e-ticket Agents Welfare Association have urge the airline service providers to refund the money paid for booking tickets since all the flight services were cancelled following the lockdown. In a statement, joint secretary of the association A Zahir Hussain said that usually when a flight service is cancelled by the airline service provider, the amount would be refunded back to the agents. He said that if the ticket is cancelled by the agents themselves, the airline service providers would not refund nearly 50 to 80% of the amount depending on the time of cancellation. He said that several people have booked their flight tickets through e-ticket agents and following the government announcement of the nation-wide lockdown, all the flight services were cancelled in the country. He explained that instead of refunding the money back, the airline service providers are following a credit shell option to re-schedule the travel of the persons who have booked the tickets. He noted that most of the people who have booked tickets through the agents are not frequent travelers and hence they would not require re-scheduling their travel. He said that the agents who have booked flight tickets are facing hardships as the customers who have booked their tickets have started to demand their money back. TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/refund-airfare-e-ticket-agents/articleshow/75113364.cms||---
April 13, 2020||Hyderabad||Chief whip unveils CD of song on Covid-19||Warangal: Government chief whip and Warangal (West) MLA Dasyam Vinay Bhaskar unveiled an audio/video CD of a song in Telugu on the importance of maintaining cleanliness and preventive measures to check the spread of Covid-19 at his camp office at Balasamudram here on Sunday. The song’s lyrics were penned and sung by a music teacher, Vaddiraju Niveditha. The song was recorded by Konda Sarangapani at Amma Studio and edited by P Sridatta. Music has been composed by TV Hemanth Kumar. Bhaskar lauded Niveditha for the lyrics and said that the lyrics would be propagated through his campaign vehicle. Niveditha has won several awards at state and national level. —Shiva Kumar Pinna||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/chief-whip-unveils-cd-of-song-on-covid-19/articleshow/75113355.cms||---
April 13, 2020||Jaipur||Rajasthan: One tests Covid-19 positive in Pokhran, 44 held for illegal travel||JAISALMER: A person was found Covid-19 positive in Pokhran on Sunday. Samples were collected from ward number 7 and many colonies in Jaisalmer city. Besides, 44 people were caught for illegal travel in Barmer on Sunday. The police caught two vehicles in which 37 people were going from Jaisalmer while seven people were coming from Gujarat. A case has been lodged against both the truck drivers. SP Anand Sharma said that they found 37 people illegally leaving Jaisalmer. The administration and medical team were informed. After screening, they were sent back to their village and instructed to remain in home quarantine. In another incident, a truck from Gujarat was caught which was bringing seven passengers from Surat to Barmer. The medical team screened the people and kept them in isolation. Additionally, director, education department, Bikaner, has suspended two principals and a chief block education officer with immediate effect for flouting lockdown protocol. Principal Matadeen Meena of Government Senior Secondary School Ram Mandir in panchayat samiti Dhanau, principal Abdul Rahman of Senior Secondary School Kitnoriya and chief block education officer Gangaram have been suspended for travelling during the lockdown and not informing the authorities. During the period of suspension, their headquarters will be District Education Office, Barmer.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/one-tests-positive-in-pokhran-44-held-for-illegal-travel/articleshow/75113373.cms||---
April 13, 2020||Madurai||Artists make their paintings talk on Covid-19 awareness||MADURAI: While Madurai Corporation is taking several steps to create awareness about Covid-19, the artists in Madurai are also using their drawings and paintings that depict Coronavirus to attract the attention of the people, create awareness on the dangers of the virus and the importance of social distancing and personal protection. S Pandian, secretary of the Madurai painters association and his friends were found depicting the Coronavirus in a painting on the roads in Sellur on Sunday. “People never fail to stop and pay attention to a drawing, so we thought that we could do our part in the Covid-19 crisis and create awareness through our drawings,” he said. Armed with their brushes, the painters took to the streets on Sunday. They have also sought permission from the Madurai district collector, Dr T G Vinay, to draw in important parts of the city like Goripalayam, Tamukkam and Periyar bus stand. Each drawing would be about 20 feet x 20 feet in size and when the writings are included, it could be extended up to 30 feet. “We have about 500 members and all of us are ready to work for the cause, without taking any money, till we have the emulsion paint for our drawings,” he said. Among those who appreciated their efforts, was the local inspector Kottaisamy, who came forward to sponsor a meal for the men, who were drawing on the Sellur roads. Gurusamy of Bose Street said that they had asked for a drawing to be done in their street and it was done. Meanwhile, a woman in Athikulam, a member G Pothilakshmi, who is an expert in drawing kolams, is writing messages on her doorstep instead of kolams. “I start with a mask and my message is usually about immunity boosters, which we find in our kitchen, like dry ginger, pepper and thippili and how to consume it,” she said. Now, people from various parts of Athikulam have started crossing her house to read her messages. “It is, however, sad to see many people not wearing masks. I insist that they wear a protective covering before reading the message,” she said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/artists-make-their-paintings-talk-on-covid-19-awareness/articleshow/75113374.cms||---
April 13, 2020||Madurai||Severe curbs force residents in containment zone to protest||MADURAI: More than 100 residents from the containment area in Anna Nagar gathered in large numbers defying the curfew to stage a protest near Yagappa Nagar on Sunday morning. MGR, Vaigai and Pasumpon streets were cordoned off as it came under one km radius containment area where four members of a same family in Nellai Street were tested positive for Covid-19 recently. While one person has died, others are under treatment. People from the containment area are not allowed to leave the area nor outsiders allowed to enter. Essentials like vegetables are taken there for sales with the help of Madurai corporation At least 100 residents from these streets gathered at MGR Street junction to air their agitation which lasted for an hour. The protesters dispersed after Anna Nagar police inspector Suresh mediated with the residents and assured to take up the issue with the district administration. Residents, who are mostly construction labourers and washermen, said that they are finding it difficult to run their family since their movement is restricted and do not have enough money to make ends meet. They could not even get loans from people outside, they said. They also find it difficult to get vegetables of their choice and are forced to buy only assorted vegetable bags sold at Rs 100 each. M S Bala, a mason from MGR Street, said “There is no money left for us to properly feed my family of four. It requires at least Rs 300 a day. While relief materials are being distributed to underprivileged people, we have not got anything. If things continue like this, survival will be difficult for us.” Residents also urged for medical check-up for every family in the containment areas and carry out intensive disinfection activities.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/severe-curbs-force-residents-in-containment-zone-to-protest/articleshow/75113372.cms||---
April 13, 2020||Ranchi||Ramgarh dist admin begins door-to-door survey to identify coronavirus patients||Ramgarh: The district administration on Sunday began a door-to-door survey throughout Ramgarh to find out any if there are suspected cases of coronavirus. The survey will also identify those households whose family members are stranded in other states owing to the ongoing lockdown, in order to bring them back once the travel restrictions are lifted. Ramgarh deputy commissioner Sandeep Singh said the administration has set up 1,200 teams, with two persons in each team, which will visit every household with a dual purpose — identification of those with symptoms of Covid-19 symptoms and gathering information about the stranded family members. He added, “Para teachers, health sahiyas, jal sahiyas and panchayat ward members, etc., have been roped in for the survey who will visit every household on a daily basis to collect information. They will inform the medical teams if they find any person with symptoms of the virus.” So far, there hasn’t been any positive case of Covid-19 in the district but the deputy commissioner said the latest move is part of its precautionary measures to keep the virus at bay. Meanwhile, the Patratu Block Development Officer (BDO) on Sunday issued a letter to its 42 panchayat heads to gather information about people of their respective areas stranded outside Jharkhand in the ongoing lockdown. All the panchayat heads have been asked to the submit details within two days. Patratu BDO Shilwant Kumar Bhatt said, “We have been asked by the Ramgarh district administration to collect details. Hence, we have asked all the panchayat heads to submit the required details latest by Tuesday.” Recently chief minister Hemant Soren spoke to his counterparts in other states about people from Jharkhand stranded in their states and said the CMs have assured him of total support. However, officials at Ramgarh district administration indicated that after preparation of the database, they will be coordinating with other state’s district administration to ensure food and ration to the stranded people. Sub-Divisional Officer of Ramgarh, Anant Kumar said, “As for now, our role is to collect details to prepare a database about people stranded in other states.” On being asked about the future plans, Kumar said, “It will be easier for us to send the people in quarantine if necessary. This database will also help us coordinate with other states to ensure availability of food and ration for the stranded.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/ramgarh-dist-admin-begins-door-to-door-survey-to-identify-coronavirus-patients/articleshow/75112719.cms||---
April 13, 2020||Ranchi||24 released from Bhewara quarantine centre in Hazaribag||Hazaribag: The district administration released 24 persons after they completed the 14-day quarantine at a centre in Bhewara on Sunday Hazaribag DC B P Singh said, “We have released the first batch of people from the quarantine centre at Bhelwara after they completed the procedure successfully. All have been tested for Covid-19 before their release. They were lodged at the centre since March 28.” Singh said a total of 143 centres are set up in the district to quarantine 2,800 people who returned to the district for the mandatory 14 days. So far, Hazaribag district has two Covid-19 cases. The first was a 52-year-old construction company worker who returned from West Bengal and tested positive on April 2. He hailed from Kargallo village in Bishnugarh block and is being treated at Hazaribag Medical College and Hospital. His condition is stable. The other was a 35-year-old man from Kharki village of the same block who returned from Mumbai last month. Singh said 11 family members Kharki village man have been put in isolation and the village had been sealed for contact tracing and sanitization. He said, “We have divided Kharki village into two zones and imposed a curfew to enforce the lockdown. We are keeping strict vigil over the situation.” He also informed that the district administration has banned use of tobacco and cigarettes to prevent instances of spitting. “Whoever is found violating the spitting norms will be put in jail for six months or have to pay a fine of Rs 200 or both,” Singh added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/24-released-from-bhewara-quarantine-centre-in-hazaribag/articleshow/75112656.cms||---
April 13, 2020||Jamshedpur||Jharkhand may extend lockdown till April 30, cabinet to decide today||RANCHI: The Jharkhand government may resolve to extend the lockdown in the state during Monday’s cabinet meeting as the number of positive Covid-19 cases have begun to rise. Since March 31, a total of 17 confirmed cases have surfaced from Ranchi, Bokaro, Hazaribag and Koderma. The state has also recorded two deaths due to the virus, the latest being on Sunday from Ranchi’s Hindpiri area. Congress, a key alliance partner in the Hemant Soren-led alliance government, on Sunday said that they are in favour of an extension of the lockdown, but with certain relaxations in rural areas. In Monday’s cabinet meeting, ministers from Congress is expected to support the extension proposal, said party office bearers. Talking to TOI, Congress’s senior leader and spokesperson Alok Dubey said, “The party is in favour of an extension with certain relaxations in rural areas and for farmers. We shall submit a proposal to the government in this regard tomorrow (Monday) so that cabinet can take it up. We shall also demand a parole for former Bihar CM Lalu Prasad.” Congress has four ministers in the 11-member cabinet. State Congress president Rameshwar Oraon, who is also the state finance and food and public distribution minister, had earlier aired his support for the extension of the lockdown. He had said, “It must be increased in places, mostly in the urban pockets, to contain the spread of the disease. In rural areas, the lockdown needs to be relaxed so that farmers can begin harvesting rabi crops, sell foodgrains and other produces to initiate economic activities.” Senior JMM leader and state transport minister Champai Soren also spoke in favour of an extension. “The cabinet will finally take a call on Monday, but I think that we should continue with it for at least two more weeks to be able to stabilise the situation. Also, at the same time, the government is concerned about lakhs of people who are stranded outside the state on how to smoothly facilitate their return after being effectively screened. A slight negligence to allow reverse exodus may put us in an uncontrollable situation.” Bleeding severe losses amid the uncertainty, Jharkhand Small Industries Association (JSIA), an umbrella outfit for medium, small and micro enterprises on Sunday appealed the Union and state governments for a lighter lockdown to enable industries to resume work in the interest of economic activities. JSIA secretary Anjay Pancheriwala said, “We have appealed for industries to be allowed to function in the non-hotspot regions with a host of regulations in place. We are ready to follow all safeguards. The entire MSE sector here is virtually bleeding for life vis-à-vis high recurring expenses and zero income. While the governments have appealed not to slash wages of employees, but where will industries bring the money from when there is no business activity?” However, opposition BJP has appealed the government to extend the lockdown till April 30 with extra caution. BJP’s leader of legislative party and Dhanwar MLA Babulal Marandi said, “Lockdown extension has become imperative for Jharkhand’s in light of the increasing number of cases. Giving any kind of relaxation would mean compromising with safety precautions.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jamshedpur/jharkhand-may-extend-lockdown-till-april-30-cabinet-to-decide-today/articleshow/75120659.cms||ASRP Mukesh
April 13, 2020||Ranchi||Prices of fish, chicken soar||Ranchi: Heavy rush was witnessed at shops selling fish and mutton here on Sunday, after the district administration permitted them to operate amid the lockdown. However, due to limited supply and increased demand, rates surged by more than 30%. Prakash Nisad, a fish wholesaler at Tharpakhna, said, “We opened our shop after about two weeks. The demand has increased by more than 25%, but the supply from other states has declined by over 30%. Because of this situation, prices have surged.” Some also blamed lockdown restrictions for the demand-supply gap. Rashid Muhammad, the owner of a shop selling chicken at Ashoknagar, said, “Supply is not regular, hence prices have surged. Before lockdown, we were selling chicken at Rs 50-60 per kg, but the same is being sold at Rs 110 now.” Shopkeepers rued that the rush of customers often also resulted in the violation of social distancing norms. Sushil Kumar, one of the shopkeepers at Lalpur, said, “The demand is high and we are unable to fulfil it. Because of this, customers sometimes gather in large numbers ignoring social distancing rules.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/prices-of-fish-chicken-soar/articleshow/75113086.cms||---
April 13, 2020||Ranchi||Jharkhand may extend lockdown till April 30, cabinet to decide today||RANCHI: The Jharkhand government may resolve to extend the lockdown in the state during Monday’s cabinet meeting as the number of positive Covid-19 cases have begun to rise. Since March 31, a total of 17 confirmed cases have surfaced from Ranchi, Bokaro, Hazaribag and Koderma. The state has also recorded two deaths due to the virus, the latest being on Sunday from Ranchi’s Hindpiri area. Congress, a key alliance partner in the Hemant Soren-led alliance government, on Sunday said that they are in favour of an extension of the lockdown, but with certain relaxations in rural areas. In Monday’s cabinet meeting, ministers from Congress is expected to support the extension proposal, said party office bearers. Talking to TOI, Congress’s senior leader and spokesperson Alok Dubey said, “The party is in favour of an extension with certain relaxations in rural areas and for farmers. We shall submit a proposal to the government in this regard tomorrow (Monday) so that cabinet can take it up. We shall also demand a parole for former Bihar CM Lalu Prasad.” Congress has four ministers in the 11-member cabinet. State Congress president Rameshwar Oraon, who is also the state finance and food and public distribution minister, had earlier aired his support for the extension of the lockdown. He had said, “It must be increased in places, mostly in the urban pockets, to contain the spread of the disease. In rural areas, the lockdown needs to be relaxed so that farmers can begin harvesting rabi crops, sell foodgrains and other produces to initiate economic activities.” Senior JMM leader and state transport minister Champai Soren also spoke in favour of an extension. “The cabinet will finally take a call on Monday, but I think that we should continue with it for at least two more weeks to be able to stabilise the situation. Also, at the same time, the government is concerned about lakhs of people who are stranded outside the state on how to smoothly facilitate their return after being effectively screened. A slight negligence to allow reverse exodus may put us in an uncontrollable situation.” Bleeding severe losses amid the uncertainty, Jharkhand Small Industries Association (JSIA), an umbrella outfit for medium, small and micro enterprises on Sunday appealed the Union and state governments for a lighter lockdown to enable industries to resume work in the interest of economic activities. JSIA secretary Anjay Pancheriwala said, “We have appealed for industries to be allowed to function in the non-hotspot regions with a host of regulations in place. We are ready to follow all safeguards. The entire MSE sector here is virtually bleeding for life vis-à-vis high recurring expenses and zero income. While the governments have appealed not to slash wages of employees, but where will industries bring the money from when there is no business activity?” However, opposition BJP has appealed the government to extend the lockdown till April 30 with extra caution. BJP’s leader of legislative party and Dhanwar MLA Babulal Marandi said, “Lockdown extension has become imperative for Jharkhand’s in light of the increasing number of cases. Giving any kind of relaxation would mean compromising with safety precautions.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/jharkhand-may-extend-lockdown-till-april-30-cabinet-to-decide-today/articleshow/75112734.cms||ASRP Mukesh
April 13, 2020||Surat||Majura Gate group’s hot mint tea is an elixir for many||Surat: With their cuppa of hot flavoured tea, this group of youngsters from Kailash Nagar area has made its way into the hearts of the government employees who have been working in that area tirelessly to contain spread of coronavirus and ensure total lockdown. The youngsters from Surat Shaher Sai Yuvak Mandal Trust supplies over 1,000 cups of tea every single day to the policemen, employees of Surat Municipal Corporation and district collector’s office. They also provide packets of sev-mamra to those who are working on the road. They provide the cleaning workers with bottled water as they constantly move from one location to another with limited resources.This group has served people with their social service in times of crisis in the past as well. During the lockdown, the group began supplying food to the needy people, but gradually discontinued as food is now being arranged by the government agencies and NGOs. “We were among the first to give food to the needy but we are now focusing on serving tea as many people would want to sip a good cup of tea during the long hours of duty, but cannot find one. We have hired a tea-maker who worked for one of the most popular tea shops in Majuragate area," said Darshan Sorathiya, a volunteer in the group.There are many groups that provide tea to the government employees at different spots, but around Athwalines area this group receives the first call if their volunteer fails to reach on time. “I have to reach the collector’s office before 3pm since many wait for our tea eagerly. We try to serve them hot tea exactly at the afternoon tea time,” said a volunteer. The reason behind their popularity is not far to seek: They make strong mint-flavoured tea, which is not so commonly available at the present times.“Tea with mint flavour is our specialty and people refuse to drink any other tea,” said Amul Mehta, a volunteer, adding that mint leaves are available, but arranging puffed rice and sev is proving to be tad difficult as the markets are closed. “We have to keep searching for the suppliers as packed sev and mamra is very useful for those on duty as they can store it for a few days and use it between meals,” said Sorathiya.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/majura-gate-groups-hot-mint-tea-is-an-elixir-for-many/articleshow/75112355.cms||Yagnesh Bharat Mehta
April 13, 2020||Ranchi||Marandi demands MDM allowance for kids on holidays too||Daltonganj: Dhanwar MLA and the leader of BJP’s legislative party, Babulal Marandi, on Sunday asked the state government to provide midday meal allowances to schoolchildren for Sundays and other holidays, too, during the lockdown period. Criticising the state government for not doing so, he told TOI, “Prime Minister Narendra Modi declared coronavirus as a national disaster and the state government, too, invoked the State Epidemic Diseases Act, 2008. Therefore, MDM allowance should be given to kids even during the holidays to help them beat hunger.” Educational establishments are shut since March 18 in the state and there is a likelihood that lockdown would be extended by another couple of weeks. Nearly 30 lakh students are enrolled in government primary and middle schools in the state. Marandi, a former chief minister, said, “The government should consider my suggestion. It is illogical and inhumane to not compensate poor kids of primary and middle schools. Hunger doesn’t know Sunday or holiday.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/marandi-demands-mdm-allowance-for-kids-on-holidays-too/articleshow/75113058.cms||---
April 13, 2020||Ranchi||BGH doc suggests shuttlecock cases in place of stethoscopes||Bokaro: Apprehending that stethoscopes can be carriers of novel coronavirus, doctors at the Covid-19 ward of Bokaro General Hospital (BGH) started using hollow badminton shuttlecock cases and are disposing them after a single use. Presently, BGH, owned by the Steel Authority of India Limited, is treating the district’s lone Covid-19 patient at a designated ward. Along with shuttlecock cases, the ward has also kept in place PPEs and N95 masks for doctors and other frontline health workers who are treating patients. Talking about his idea, Dr Satish Kumar, noted cardiologist and joint director of BGH, said, “I was exploring an alternative to stethoscopes when I came across a fact that 200 years ago, French physician Rene Laennec had used a wooden tube for hearing the sounds from lungs which was later on developed into the modern day stethoscope that we now use.” He added, “Using stethoscopes in the wake of Covid-19 had become quite a hazard as it is recognised as one of the worst fomites (non-living carriers of virus). Hence, after consulting all doctors, who responded positively to its utility, I proposed the use of shuttlecock cases.” Meanwhile, doctors at BGH said safety of health workers is of utmost importance. Speaking on condition of anonymity, a doctor at BGH said, “The increasing number of morbidity and mortality of doctors involved in Covid-19 patient care globally warrants for more stringent precautionary measures. Chest Auscultation of infected patients poses an enormous challenge before doctors, as far as their safety is concerned.” Kumar added, “Shuttlecock cases are safer as they are used only once and is about 13 inches long, keeping a patient at an adequate distance.” Sergey Barsamyan, cardiology registrar at Oxford University Hospital in UK praised Kumar’s efforts after he sent his article related to Laennec’s stethoscope for publication in the journal of Association of Physicians of India (JAPI). Kumar was praised by his peers both in India and abroad. However, doctors wearing PPEs have a practical problem in using both stethoscopes and the shuttlecock cases as their ears are covered. In such a case, alternative equipment, such as tubeless electronic stethoscopes that use bluetooth and handheld portable ultrasound machines for assessment of lung conditions are scarce, said doctors at the hospital.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/bgh-doc-suggests-shuttlecock-cases-in-place-of-stethoscopes/articleshow/75113066.cms||Divy Khare
April 13, 2020||Ranchi||Postal department restarts operations amid lockdown||Ranchi: Government-run India Post, which had witness an almost 90% slump in business after private courier services gradually took over, has begun its operations in the ongoing lockdown. As most private courier services have shut their operations amid the Covid-19 threat, India Post has jumped into delivery service business and deployed its staff, but not without taking measures to ensure their safety. From ensuring timely delivery of official mails to making medical consignments reach their destinations across the state, the postal employees are now working with more vigour, though the service is still less in demand. Talking to TOI, senior post master of Ranchi GPO, Sanjay Kumar Gupta, said, “I have a total strength of 42 postmen who look after the delivery of mails in our delivery zone. But due to the slump in demand for our services, we have divided them into three batches — two of 14 postmen each and one comprising 13 postmen — on an alternate basis. I have directed the postmen to deliver mails and packages in areas which do not come under their zones, too, if the particular postman of that area is not on duty.” The postal department is also using its vehicles to transport consignments received from Railway Mail Services (RMS) and air cargo to distribute them across the state. Gupta said, “A Lalpur resident inquired about her package last week and said she wasn’t able to come and pick it up. Our postman from that area was on leave, but we immediately assigned the task to another postman on duty as there were medicines in the package. Apart from medicines, we are delivering letters and mails from banks and other government departments which are functional. These items are delivered on a priority basis.” Senior officials at the postal department confirmed that the postal services are working day and night to deliver essential commodities as well as important mails across the state. “Our vehicles collect mails and packages from RMS centres on a daily basis and apart from that, whenever air cargo is brought to Ranchi airport, we arrange for their immediate distribution to their respective destinations across the state,” Gupta added. Currently, Air India is operating flights for ferrying only emergency items related to the fight for Covid-19 to Ranchi airport.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/postal-department-restarts-operations-amid-lockdown/articleshow/75113029.cms||Gaurav Pandey
April 13, 2020||Ranchi||Cops step up vigil in Steel City colonies||Jamshedpur: With reports of lockdown violations coming in from colony areas, police on Sunday increased vigil in residential areas apart from the arterial roads of the Steel City. To ensure compliance, more PCR vans and ‘tiger’ mobiles were pressed into service. From March 24, when the lockdown was implemented, to April 12, nearly 500 cases related to the violation of Section 144 CrPC have been lodged in Jamshedpur. DC Ravi Shankar Shukla and SSP Anoop Birthare asked police and magistrates to strictly enforce the lockdown. They also asked police to make sure that baring those who have a genuine reason to be out on the streets, nobody is seen on the streets. Deputy SP, Composite Control Room (CCR), Arvind Kumar said, “We received reports that elderly persons are coming out for morning walks and youths are strolling on the streets in the evening while bikers are using the peripheral roads and dishonouring the lockdown.” Lockdown violations have been reported from colonies that are situated in the suburban areas under Pursudih, Birsanagar, Baridih and Jaduguda police station areas and residential colonies in the urban areas of Kadma, Golmuri, Mango, Azadnagar and others. A TOI team visited Marine Drive on Sunday and saw slum dwellers living close to the Kharkhai and Domuhani rivers flocking to the place in groups, disobeying even social distancing norms. “Children sometimes go out by informing us that they will stay close to the house, particularly in the evenings, but wander off to places,” conceded a 57-year-old father, an entrepreneur and a resident of Mango, requesting anonymity. The DC also asked Tata Steel to join hands with the district administration agencies for door-to-door visits for awareness on Covid-19 among the people and asked everyone venturing out of the house to compulsorily wear face masks.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/cops-step-up-vigil-in-steel-city-colonies/articleshow/75112696.cms||---
April 13, 2020||Ranchi||Hindpiri man is Ranchi’s first and Jharkhand’s second Covid-19 casualty||RANCHI: A 60-year-old man from Hindpiri locality, the epicentre of Covid-19 in the city, died of the virus on Sunday around 9am at the trauma centre of Rajendra Institute of Medical Sciences (Rims) here. The deceased was the husband of the 54-year-old woman, who tested positive for Covid-19 earlier on April 6.  Six of her family members, including her husband, tested positive on the same day and were kept at the Covid-19 isolation ward of Rims. This is the second Covid-19 casualty in the state and first for the city. The first casualty in the state was a 72-year-old man in Bokaro district who died on April 8. After the Hindpiri man’s death, there are seven active cases, in the city and all are have direct or indirect links with the Tablighi Jamaat group. An official communiqué from Rims said, “A 60-year-old male from Hindpiri area was admitted at the Covid-19 centre after he tested positive for the virus on April 6. He was put on ventilator since April 9 as he had developed acute respiratory distress syndrome (ARDS). He was also suffering from type II diabetes mellitus and cardiomyopathy. He died during treatment on Sunday morning.” Confirming the death, Rims director Dr D K Singh told TOI, “The patient was diabetic and had developed ARDS during treatment. As he had cardiomyopathy, his heart muscles were also not functioning up to the mark. He was put on ventilator because of breathlessness, but died on Sunday morning.” Health department sources said the 54-year-old woman was probably infected by her family members who might have come in close contact with the 22-year-old Malaysian woman, the state’s first Covid-19 case detected on March 31. The Malaysian woman with Tablighi Jamaat connection had stayed in the neighbourhood for four days. The other active case is a 62-year-old cleric from the same locality who also had interacted with the Tablighi Jamaat members. He had tested positive on Saturday. Six of his family members are also in isolation at Rims and his contact-tracing is on. Based on the statements of the cleric about his movements, the officials are expecting a surge in the number of infected persons in the area. Ranchi SDM Lokesh Mishra said the number of Covid-19 cases might increase after completion of the contact-tracing exercise. “We have appealed to the people, who have come in contact with the cleric, to come forward and get themselves tested,” he said. “The primary contacts, six family members of the cleric who had direct contact with the visiting Jamaat members, were shifted to isolation on Saturday. We are now tracing the secondary contacts and are trying to trace people who have had come in direct or indirect contact with him based on his movements. Till now, 20 people have been identified and their samples have been sent for testing,” Mishra added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/hindpiri-man-is-ranchis-first-and-states-second-covid-19-casualty/articleshow/75113037.cms||Gaurav Pandey
April 13, 2020||India||Govt earmarks 1 lakh hospital beds for Covid patients||NEW DELHI: The health ministry said it has earmarked over one lakh beds in 601 hospitals across the country even as estimates show only 1,671 beds are required in tertiary care, underlining what it said was the government's preparedness to combat Covid-19.  While positive cases have increased from 917 on March 29 to 8,346 on Sunday, only 20% of these cases would need ICU support and critical care. However, the government is looking to be be over-prepared, health ministry joint secretary Lav Agarwal said on Sunday. The number of hospitals and beds needed for Covid-19 patients is going up every week with the lockdown providing time to ramp up capabilities for any big increase in patients in the coming months. It's time to mask up and stay safe: Join TOI's #MaskIndia campaignAgarwal said a resurgence of cases in South Korea, China and Japan was cause of concern and, therefore, it was important to continue containment measures and social distancing. "The government is planning things well and is over-prepared. With the rise in cases of coronavirus, we are increasing the number of dedicated Covid-19 hospitals and number of isolation centres," he said.  He said medical staff had been given proper training on ventilator management and how to manage biological waste, biomedical waste, cleanliness and preventing infection spread. The government has sought to improve availability of beds and medical attention in smaller centres and towns. More on Covid-19Coronavirus pandemic: Complete Coverage21-day lockdown: What will stay open and what won'tHow to quarantine yourself at homeTrust the newspaper for your daily verified news||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/govt-earmarks-1-lakh-hospital-beds-for-covid-patients/articleshow/75113852.cms||---
April 13, 2020||Surat||SVNIT faculty makes 3D printed face shield||Surat: A faculty member of Sardar Vallabhbhai National Institute of Technology (SVNIT) along with his students has developed a face shield frame with the aid of 3D printing for protection of staff and students from any infection. The 3D printed frame has been developed in-house with a biocompatible material. The team used polylactic acid to make the frame and improvised the design to allow a plastic sheet with holes to be fixed manually. If a user so wants, he/she can replace the transparent plastic sheet after some time. Harshit Dave, associate professor, mechanical department, developed the 3D printed mask frame and then started using it with a transparent plastic sheet. "Various designs of face shield are available online. We just improvised a design a little bit for local use. Our priority was to keep our staff members and students safe during the fight against coronavirus," said Dave. The face shield weighs less than 20 grams which is just about the weight of frame of a spectacle. "Due to less weight, the mask can be easily used for long time. Products available in market start hurting after an hour of use due to their weight," Dave added. "500 face shields have been developed with locally available material to help our staff fight against coronavirus. We developed the face shield in-house because of its shortage," SVNIT director S R Gandhi said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/svnit-faculty-makes-3d-printed-face-shield/articleshow/75112418.cms||---
April 13, 2020||Surat||13 held for rioting over veggie prices in Surat||SURAT: Pandesara police arrested 13 persons on Sunday for rioting and allegedly attacking two vegetable vendors in the area. The accused residents of Ganesh Nagar alleged that the hawkers were charging exorbitant prices for the vegetables and therefore attacked them. They have been booked for rioting, unlawful assembly, violation of prohibitory order issued under public notification and negligent act that can spread infection of disease among other charges. A complaint in this regard was lodged by Samim Shaikh, a resident of Pandesara. Shaikh and another vegetable hawker Kari, alias Raj Kumar Bhandari, were standing with their carts in Ganesh Nagar on Sunday morning. A man came to purchase tomatoes from Shaikh’s cart and purchased one kilo. He paid Rs 20 against the price of Rs 30 per kilo. When Shaikh asked for Rs 10 more, the accused refused to pay and threatened to overturn the cart. The accused later called up his friends from nearby locality and they all attacked Shaikh alleging that he is selling vegetable at higher prices.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/13-held-for-rioting-over-veggie-prices/articleshow/75112449.cms||---
April 13, 2020||Surat||SMIMER gets ICMR nod for Covid testing, to test 800 a day||Surat: SMIMER hospital run by the Surat Municipal Corporation (SMC) got the nod from Indian Council of Medical Research’s (ICMR) to test Covid-19 samples. Municipal commissioner Banchhanidhi Pani said this will further enhance city’s testing capacity. “The infrastructure for testing capacity is being set up and training of medical staff is under way. We have started mass testing in the city and we plan to increase our testing numbers. We have collected 1,428 samples from mass sampling, of which six people have tested positive. We want to increase our testing capacity to 800 per day in the coming days,” Pani said. He said that 17 fever clinics (mobile vans) are on the field in different parts of the city to check people’s health. “We are following up cases of acute respiratory infections (ARI) and influenza-like illness so that they do not get infected with Covid-19,” he said. “We have barricaded 172 societies or labour colonies in different parts of the city,” the municipal commissioner added. Meanwhile, three persons including a domestic help residing at the EWS housing colony at Panas in Vesu tested positive on Sunday. The domestic help identified as Lata Javre, 45, tested positive after her sample was taken at the Panas health centre during ARI surveillance. The tracing of her contacts revealed that she was working as a domestic help in a house in Vesu where the employer had returned from Italy on February 22. However, the employer had earlier tested negative. The other two positive cases are Shahrukh Pathan, 24, a resident of Azad Chowk in Limbayat and Vipul Mavani, 34, a resident of Vallabhnagar in Varachha. Deputy municipal commissioner (health and hospital), Dr Ashish Naik said, “It is surprising that all the three patients who tested positive were detected during the ARI surveillance.” Meanwhile, six people suffering from suspected symptoms of the deadly virus were admitted in the New Civil Hospital’s isolation ward on Sunday. The samples of all the patients have been sent for laboratory testing.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/smimer-gets-icmr-nod-for-covid-testing-to-test-800-a-day/articleshow/75112474.cms||---
April 13, 2020||Nagpur||Power demand, pollution show steep decline||Nagpur: Thanks to corona lockdown that brought most economic activities to a grinding halt, power consumption in the country has fallen by 18.72% (as on April 4). The emissions of particulate matter during this period have seen a nearly 7% decline. This was revealed in the data tracker developed by the Energy Policy Institute at the University of Chicago (EPIC). The tracker shows the impact of Covid-19 on electricity consumption and particulate pollution in countries like India, China, and the United States. The researchers compared the decline with the average gross electricity consumption in the country in 2018-19 which was 1181 kilowatt hour (kwh) per capita. The particulate emissions were compared to the levels of December 2019. The tracker shows that on the first day of the lockdown (March 25), electricity consumption in the country saw a decline of nearly 21%. It further fell nearly 24% the next day and 25% on the third day. Till April 6, the fall kept on swaying between 18-22%. “Historically, electricity consumption has proven to be a reliable, early indicator of broader economic trends. With the restrictions, roads and airports are nearly empty, shops and restaurants closed, and industrial activities are largely at a halt leading to reduction in usage of power,” stated a press release by EPIC. A comparison of the data for India with other countries like USA shows the fall in the county has been sharper, indicating the lockdown here was much stricter and better implemented compared to other nations. To assess the fall in urban particulate matter, EPIC researchers assembled daily PM 2.5 data from OpenAQ, a website which aggregates particulate matter readings from monitoring stations around the world. On the first day of the lockdown, the PM levels dropped 27.3%. With a significant drop in vehicular movement and shutdown of some industries, the levels saw a further fall of 32 – 35% in the coming week. Highlighting the importance of the tracker, EPIC stated: “The COVID-19 pandemic has forced governments around the world to impose tough restrictions on daily life to prevent the spread of the virus. In this environment, real-time information about economic activity is at a premium, but often hard to acquire. This dynamic tracker provides insights into the severity of the economic downturn and the timing of recoveries.” Infographics: - EPIC develops a tracker to show impact of lockdown on power consumption and particulate pollution - In India, energy consumption and pollution both saw significant falls - Power consumption in India falls by 18.72% - Restrictions on commercial activities, vehicular movements etc reason behind the decline - The two present real-time information about economic downturn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/power-demand-pollution-show-steep-decline/articleshow/75139226.cms||Manka Behl
April 13, 2020||Surat||Wear masks in public or shell out Rs 5,000 as penalty||RAJKOT/VADODARA/SURAT: The four major cities of Gujarat have made wearing masks in public places compulsory in view of the increasing number of coronavirus cases in the state. While Surat had already made it mandatory a week ago, Ahmedabad, Rajkot and Vadodara followed suit on Sunday with the municipal corporations issuing orders under the Epidemic Diseases Act. Beginning Monday, those caught moving around without masks in public places in these three cities will be fined Rs 5,000. If they fail to deposit the fine, the offenders will be booked under IPC sections. Rajkot municipal commissioner Udit Agrawal said, “People can cover their face with readymade or home-made masks,handkerchief or any other cloth. The first time offender will be fined Rs 1,000 and thereafter Rs 5,000. If anybody refuses to pay the fine, strict action under IPC sections will be initiated." In Vadodara too, the notification issued by municipal commissioner on Sunday states that citizens will have to cover their faces with a mask, handkerchief or a cloth when venturing into public places from 6am on Monday. Ward officers have been asked to ensure strict implementation of the directive. Those found with their faces open will have to cough up Rs 1,000 as fine for the first time and then Rs 5,000. Most people in the city have already started covering their faces when venturing out. Ahmedabad municipal commissioner Vijay Nehra said, “From 6am on Monday, everybody in Ahmedabad city municipal limits will have to wear mask mandatorily when going out in public places. Those found without masks will be fined Rs 5,000. Those who fail to deposit the fine will be jailed for three years.” The Surat Municipal Corporation (SMC) had already started penalizing people for not wearing masks in the city a week ago. Till now, over 500 people have been fined for not wearing masks in public places. Moreover, SMC is also penalizing those who don't maintain social distancing at public places. "We made masks and maintaining social distancing at public places mandatory under the Epidemic Disease Act-1897. Both are important to stall the spread of Covid-19,'' said Banchhanidhi Pani, Municipal Commissioner, Surat.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/wear-masks-in-public-or-shell-out-rs-5000-as-penalty/articleshow/75112538.cms||---
April 13, 2020||World||Trump thinks this drug is a game-changer. Is he right?||US president Donald Trump thinks it is the wonder cure for Covid-19. And India has plenty of it: hydroxychloroquine, a drug used to treat malaria. Trump even threatened India with retaliatory action if Delhi didn’t ship hydroxychloroquine to the US. India has agreed. But will this drug humble the novel coronavirus rampaging across the world? Kenneth Mohanty sifts through the evidence There’s little unanimity on hydroxychloroquineTrump’s own health officials have said there is little data to support the widespread use of hydroxychloroquine (HCQ) for Covid-19 cases. The US Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) makes it clear that “there are no drugs or other therapeutics approved by (US authorities) to prevent or treat Covid-19” So, doctors now can only treat the symptoms of the disease. But multiple trials are on globally to gauge how effective HCQ really is against Sars-CoV-2, the novel coronavirus that causes Covid-19 There could be risks of reckless useHCQ can have side-effects and reports suggest it is not safe for people with medical conditions. A government advisory on HCQ use in India said the drug can only be given on the prescription of a registered medical practitioner. ICMR said it would not recommend HCQ for children below 15 years and those aged above 60 years as it affects the kidney and heart So, where does India come in?70% of HCQ ’s . It is also in production the drug’s largest exporter. Developed countries mostly don’t make this drug because they don’t commonly deal with malaria has a monthly capacity of producing an 200 million HCQ tablets while it around 24 million tablets (200 mg ) annually for three main treatments — , lupus, and rheumatoid arthritis Industry officials say each Covid-19 patient needs a 14-tablet course and the Centre has reportedly placed an order for around 100 million HCQ tablets with top Indian manufacturers — enough pills to treat over 71 lakh people Indian pharma says there is enough stock of HCQ and they are ready to ramp up capacity. The country has received orders from more than 30 countries, including the US, for HCQ Can HCQ prevent Covid-19?There is no evidence that HCQ can prevent infection but researchers at a US university are testing it on people who live with coronavirus patients to see if it acts like a prophylactic. ICMR, too, has recommended HCQ as a preventive medication for health workers Meant for malaria, so why the hype now?HCQ was approved decades ago and has been used to reduce fever and inflammation in malaria patients. A study found it could block coronavirus from invading cells and replicating inside the human body. NYT says doctors in China and France have found that HCQ combined with the antibiotic azithromycin can be effective HCQ’s efficacy against an overactive immune system is why it’s used to treat autoimmune conditions like lupus and rheumatoid arthritis. Severe cases of Covid-19 may see their immune systems trigger an inflammation Meanwhile, docs are trying out multiple treatmentsRemdesivir, a drug made by a US firm and first developed to fight Ebola, has received clearance for use in specific cases for critically ill patients. Remdesivir isn’t targeted to kill SARS-CoV-2 but aims to destroy the mechanism viruses use to replicate The Japanese influenza drug Favipiravir reportedly appeared to shorten the course of the disease. But the company that makes the drug has refused to comment on these claims Also, an HIV medicine, Kaletra, has been used in China to treat Covid-19 although previous tests have shown it to be ineffective Doctors have also used plasma treatment for Sars, Mers and H1N1 influenza. This involves taking antibodies in the plasma of people who have recovered from Covid-19 and transferring that into seriously ill patients. The idea is that the antibodies will stimulate the critically ill patient’s own immune system to fight the virus. Source: Agencies, BBC, NYT, cnet.com||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//world/rest-of-world/trump-thinks-this-drug-is-a-game-changer-is-he-right/articleshow/75113898.cms||---
April 13, 2020||Ludhiana||11 Nihangs arrested for attacking cops in Patiala||PATIALA/CHANDIGARH: Eleven Nihangs were arrested on Sunday for murderous assault on a Punjab Police team, in which 50-year-old assistant sub-inspector Harjit Singh's hand was chopped off after an altercation at a vegetable market in Patiala's Sanaur early in the morning. The accused, including a woman, were arrested after the police stormed the dera complex at Balbera, which also includes Khichri Sahib Gurdwara, when a long standoff failed. The accused were arrested with a huge cache of weapons, drugs and cash. A group of five Nihangs, including Baba Balwinder Singh, the head of the dera, attacked police personnel after they crashed through a series of barricades riding on a pickup truck. The cops had inquired about their curfew passes, DGP Dinkar Gupta said. Balwinder Singh was the main perpetrator of the attack at the Patiala subzi mandi, he added. ASI’s hand reattached after 8-hour surgeryASI Harjit Singh was rushed to PGIMER in Chandigarh immediately and his severed hand was re-implanted successfully after a seven-and-a-halfhour-long surgery. He is recovering well but will be under observation for another 48 hours. Three other police personnel — inspector Bikkar Singh, SHO Sadar Patiala; ASI Raj Singh and ASI Raghbir Singh — were injured in the sabzi mandi attack. The SHO was injured with a sharp weapon on his left arm, leg and back, ASI Raj Singh had a injury caused by a sharp weapon on his left leg, and his fellow ASI suffered blunt injuries. A Mandi Board official, A R Yadwinder Singh, was also injured in the attack. The Nihangs escaped from the spot immediately and took refuge in their dera. Patiala Police team, led by IG Patiala Range Jatinder Aulakh and Patiala SSP Mandeep Sidhu were fired at from inside the complex during the operation. The dera head, Balwinder Singh and his followers refused to surrender with their weapons despite protracted negotiations and appeals. The group set up morchas inside the complex, placed LPG cylinders along the dera perimeter and threatened to set off explosions to injure the police team, DGP Gupta said. The cops then asked the sarpanch and some villagers to go in and persuade the Nihangs but they failed. Immediately, loud shouts and noises were heard from inside the complex, suggesting that some innocents within might have got caught in the standoff, the DGP added. The Patiala police team along with Special Operations Group (SOG) then stormed the premises to flush out the Nihangs. On of the Nihangs was injured and rushed to hospital immediately. The DGP said the entire operation was handled delicately so that the ‘maryada’ and sanctum sanctorum of the Gurdwara Sahib were not disturbed in any manner. Hand-held weapons, such as barchhe (lances) and kirpans, used cartridges, two petrol bombs, LPG cylinders and bottles of yet-to-be-identified chemicals were recovered. Five bags of poppy husk mixed with sulpha, other drugs in commercial quantity and Rs 39 lakhs were seized too. Two separate cases have been registered against the accused — five have been booked for the sabzi mandi attack and 11 persons, including the woman, for the attack on police during the standoff. Another case under NDPS Act was registered for recovery of 5-6 bags of poppy husk and other drugs. The Nihang dera’s property will also be attached on account of the recovery of commercial quantity of drugs.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/11-nihangs-arrested-for-attacking-cops-in-patiala/articleshow/75113904.cms||Manish Sirhindi
April 13, 2020||Chandigarh||11 Nihangs arrested for attacking cops in Patiala||PATIALA/CHANDIGARH: Eleven Nihangs were arrested on Sunday for murderous assault on a Punjab Police team, in which 50-year-old assistant sub-inspector Harjit Singh's hand was chopped off after an altercation at a vegetable market in Patiala's Sanaur early in the morning. The accused, including a woman, were arrested after the police stormed the dera complex at Balbera, which also includes Khichri Sahib Gurdwara, when a long standoff failed. The accused were arrested with a huge cache of weapons, drugs and cash. A group of five Nihangs, including Baba Balwinder Singh, the head of the dera, attacked police personnel after they crashed through a series of barricades riding on a pickup truck. The cops had inquired about their curfew passes, DGP Dinkar Gupta said. Balwinder Singh was the main perpetrator of the attack at the Patiala subzi mandi, he added. ASI’s hand reattached after 8-hour surgeryASI Harjit Singh was rushed to PGIMER in Chandigarh immediately and his severed hand was re-implanted successfully after a seven-and-a-halfhour-long surgery. He is recovering well but will be under observation for another 48 hours. Three other police personnel — inspector Bikkar Singh, SHO Sadar Patiala; ASI Raj Singh and ASI Raghbir Singh — were injured in the sabzi mandi attack. The SHO was injured with a sharp weapon on his left arm, leg and back, ASI Raj Singh had a injury caused by a sharp weapon on his left leg, and his fellow ASI suffered blunt injuries. A Mandi Board official, A R Yadwinder Singh, was also injured in the attack. The Nihangs escaped from the spot immediately and took refuge in their dera. Patiala Police team, led by IG Patiala Range Jatinder Aulakh and Patiala SSP Mandeep Sidhu were fired at from inside the complex during the operation. The dera head, Balwinder Singh and his followers refused to surrender with their weapons despite protracted negotiations and appeals. The group set up morchas inside the complex, placed LPG cylinders along the dera perimeter and threatened to set off explosions to injure the police team, DGP Gupta said. The cops then asked the sarpanch and some villagers to go in and persuade the Nihangs but they failed. Immediately, loud shouts and noises were heard from inside the complex, suggesting that some innocents within might have got caught in the standoff, the DGP added. The Patiala police team along with Special Operations Group (SOG) then stormed the premises to flush out the Nihangs. On of the Nihangs was injured and rushed to hospital immediately. The DGP said the entire operation was handled delicately so that the ‘maryada’ and sanctum sanctorum of the Gurdwara Sahib were not disturbed in any manner. Hand-held weapons, such as barchhe (lances) and kirpans, used cartridges, two petrol bombs, LPG cylinders and bottles of yet-to-be-identified chemicals were recovered. Five bags of poppy husk mixed with sulpha, other drugs in commercial quantity and Rs 39 lakhs were seized too. Two separate cases have been registered against the accused — five have been booked for the sabzi mandi attack and 11 persons, including the woman, for the attack on police during the standoff. Another case under NDPS Act was registered for recovery of 5-6 bags of poppy husk and other drugs. The Nihang dera’s property will also be attached on account of the recovery of commercial quantity of drugs.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/11-nihangs-arrested-for-attacking-cops-in-patiala/articleshow/75113929.cms||Manish Sirhindi
April 13, 2020||Vijayawada||Docs, nurses under pressure to move out of rented houses||Vijayawada: The fears of Covid-19 virus and social stigma attached to it makes life tough for the frontline warriors like doctors, para medical and sanitation workers especially for those who are living in rented houses. Reports of four doctors contracting the virus in Anantapur, a doctor at Narsipatnam openly criticising for not providing safety equipment and Nagari municipal commissioner’s video about lack of facilities have increased the fears of house owners who rented their properties to doctors and other para medical workers. With the house owners taking a cautious view and asking them to vacate the houses, the frontline workers are struggling to convince them. As the number of positive cases are on steady increase across the state and the doctors who are treating the patients turning victims of the virus there is a sense of fear among many people especially in the neighbours, said a woman nurse working in Vijayawada government hospital who does not want to be named. “We are living in strange situation that everyone is praising us for the work we are doing in the fight against the Covid-19 virus but no one wants to come near us with the fear of contracting the virus. Many of my colleagues living in rented houses, especially in group houses, are facing the same situation and some of the owners are asking us to vacate the house,” she said. The issue was even brought to the notice of the high court which recently passed an order directing the police to book cases against those house owners who were putting pressure on the doctors and other para medical staff to vacate the houses. The high court also directed the state government to comply with the orders passed earlier to ensure that the doctors and other medical staff treating Covid-19 positive patients should be provided with necessary protection equipment. The high court said that the political leaders should not be allowed to hold meetings or congregations and book cases against them if anyone organised such meetings.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/docs-nurses-under-pressure-to-move-out-of-rented-houses/articleshow/75111776.cms||---
April 13, 2020||Vijayawada||Andhra Pradesh govt imposes ban on spitting in public places||VIJAYAWADA: The state government prohibited consuming smokeless/chewable tobacco or non-tobacco products and spitting in public places with immediate effect. An order with regard to it was released on Sunday by invoking the provisions under the Epidemic Diseases Act and the Disaster Management Act, 2005. The order, which was released under the name of special chief secretary, medical, health and family welfare, KS Jawahar Reddy, stated that the Covid-19 Pandemic has brought to the fore the importance of hygiene and cleanliness in both personal as well as public sphere. “It is of utmost need to impose restrictions on unhealthy practices that may potentially lead to spread of such viruses and other infections. The habit of public spitting poses a serious threat to the spread of such infections,” read the order. Violators will be punished under the provisions of Indian Penal Code -1860 and Code of Criminal Procedure (CrPc). The government also ordered the public to refrain from consuming the smokeless/chewable tobacco or non-tobacco product. The Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) recently issued an appeal to the general public to not consume and spit smokeless tobacco in public. As per the appeal, chewing these products increases the production of ‘saliva’, followed by a strong urge to spit. Spitting in the public places will potentially enhance the spread of the Covid-19 virus.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/state-govt-imposes-ban-on-spitting-in-public-places/articleshow/75111796.cms||---
April 13, 2020||Visakhapatnam||Exempt from lockdown curbs, fishermen breathe sigh of relief||Visakhapatnam: Fishermen in Andhra Pradesh breathed a sigh of relief after the Union government issued a notification exempting all fishing activities from the lockdown. Fishermen in the state will now be able to venture into the sea and sell their catch till April 14 before the fishing ban begins on April 15. Arjili Dasu, a fisherman and activist said, “There has hardly been any fishing activity in the state since the lockdown was imposed. The state government had issued a ban on fishing and the fisheries department had imposed a ban on auctions. Now, the fishermen will be able to earn at least for a few days.” The department of home affairs, in its April 10 order, stated that fishing operations (marine) or aquaculture industry including fishing, maintenance, harvesting, processing, packaging, cold chain, sale and marketing would be exempt from lockdown restrictions. However, the order mentioned that social distancing and hygiene practices must be ensured during business. On March 31, TOI reported that if fishing were to remain stalled for over 80 days, there would be a severe scarcity of fish from the end of April and the situation would improve only after the fishing ban was lifted on June 14. The Union government has asked the state ministry of fisheries to provide details of fishermen, fish workers and vendors affected by the lockdown. There are around 1 lakh 10 thousand registered fishermen in the state.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/visakhapatnam/exempt-from-lockdown-curbs-fishermen-breathe-sigh-of-relief/articleshow/75111804.cms||Arpit Basu
April 13, 2020||Surat||Dawoodi Bohras serve poor, needy||SURAT: Members of Dawoodi Bohra community have stepped up relief efforts to help thousands of people rendered jobless after lockdown was announced by the government to contain the spread of Covid-19 in the country. His Holiness Dr Syedna Mufaddal Saifuddin, leader of the community, in a message has asked Bohra organizations to extend whatever help they can to those in need. Hatim Fakhar, a member of the community from Surat, said, “This is time that calls for people around the world to come together to support the less fortunate. Every meal and every helping hand goes a long way and today we have come together to do our part for those who might be hungry or unable to help themselves.” “In Gujarat, over 50,000 cooked meals along with distribution of dry ration and groceries to over 42,000 beneficiaries have been carried out so far. Additionally, our community members have extended support to frontline service providers by offering them medical services and supplies,” Hatim added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/dawoodi-bohras-serve-poor-needy/articleshow/75112583.cms||---
April 13, 2020||Visakhapatnam||Hungry squirrels, in search of food, cause power outages||Visakhapatnam: On April 9, there was a sudden interruption in electricity supply at Jagannadhapuram in Dondaparthy between 06:45pm and 06:55pm. When the APEPDCL (Andhra Pradesh Power Distribution Company Limited) team rushed to the spot, they found a squirrel lying dead in the electricity lines of a transformer. The team resolved the problem in a few hours. L Mahendranath, executive engineer (zone 1) said, “On April 9, we found squirrels were responsible for six out of 21 electricity interruptions.” He said that squirrels and lizards cause interruptions in electricity supply by falling on live wires or transformers. According to APEPDCL records, nearly 15-20% of all electricity interruptions in a year are caused by squirrels, lizards or birds. According to Mahendranath, the lockdown may have rendered the animals and birds more active as food has become difficult to come by. “Everything is locked down now. These animals are unable to find food. Thus, they are trying to reach waste bins. As a result, they accidentally fall on transformers while searching for food in waste bins which are often placed near transformers,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/visakhapatnam/hungry-squirrels-in-search-of-food-cause-power-outages/articleshow/75111812.cms||V Kamalakara Rao
April 13, 2020||Vijayawada||A third of nCov patients are in their 30s||Vijayawada: Two out of four corona positive cases in Andhra Pradesh belong to the age group of 21-40, as per data provided by the state government for the first 250 Covid-19 patients. This coincides with the national trend, which shows a near 40% incidence of the disease in the 21-40 age group. Meanwhile, the 31-40 age group alone accounts for about one-third of the cases in AP, representing the most-affected age bracket. The next most-hit group is 41-50 years with 20% cases. Nearly 8% cases belong to the 0-20 age group with many children aged between 10 and 15 contracting the disease. Even though it is believed that the elderly are more susceptible to it, only about 9% patients were above 60 years. The oldest among all is an 80-year-old patient. When it comes to sex, men make up nearly 85% of the cases. But all is not bleak as a majority of the 11 covid patients, who recovered and were discharged, too, belong to the 21-30 age group. Moreover, the recovery of a 65-year-old male from Visakhapatnam, even after having several comorbidities, comes as a ray of hope. His wife, who contracted the disease from her husband, also recently tested negative and was sent home. On the other hand, all the seven Covid-related fatalities were in patients aged 45 years or above. A majority of these deaths occurred in patients with pre-existing health conditions such as diabetes, hypertension and cardiac issues. These comorbidities might have made them susceptible to Covid-related complications. The average age of the six casualties is above 50 years. The officials are yet to establish the origin of the disease in several cases. Special chief secretary, medical, health and family welfare, KS Jawahar Reddy, in an order, asked the officials to not hand over the body of suspected Covid patients to family members till the test results are known.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/a-third-of-ncov-patients-are-in-their-30s/articleshow/75111828.cms||Umamaheswara Rao
April 13, 2020||Vijayawada||As power prices fall, Transco looks to save||VIJAYAWADA: Though the sharp fall in demand for power has resulted in a fall in revenue for Andhra Pradesh power utilities, it also comes as a blessing in disguise as they might be able to save about Rs 56 crore by purchasing power from exchanges. The spot prices of power have hit a low with a fall in demand and APTransco has purchased power at this low cost by putting high cost conventional power generation stations on reserve shut down. The energy department said in a statement on Sunday that the Transco had taken a strategic decision to shift to the option of buying power in the spot market where the prices are hovering around Rs 2 per kWhr rather than from the power plants to reduce the financial burden when the economy is slim in the country and state. According to officials, on an average 14 MU to 20 MUs per day was purchased from the power exchanges in March which accounted for a total of 357.22MUs. Energy secretary Nagulapalli Srikant said that they are closely monitoring the prices on power exchanges on daily basis so as to utilise the opportunity of buying low cost power.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/as-power-prices-fall-transco-looks-to-save/articleshow/75111836.cms||---
April 13, 2020||Vijayawada||10-year-old crushed to death by tractor||Tirupati: A 10-year-old boy was crushed to death by a tractor at Chinthaparthivaripalli in Chittoor district on Sunday. The deceased has been identified as Asif, son of Sabson and Arshia who are residents of Kalluru in Sadum mandal. According to reports, the accident took place when the boy along with his parents was travelling in a two-wheeler and the two-wheeler hit the tractor. All three fell down and the 10-year-old came under the wheels of the tractor. The boy suffered a major injury to his head and died on the spot. The accident took place at around 5am. The family had set out from to travel to Modikurthi village. They boy’s parents suffered minor injuries. The police have registered a case and a manhunt has been launched to find the driver of the tractor who fled the spot after the accident.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/10-year-old-crushed-to-death-by-tractor/articleshow/75111844.cms||---
April 13, 2020||Surat||Doctor arrested for spreading rumour in Bardoli town||SURAT: A doctor was arrested for forwarding a fake message about a positive patient in the NRI town Bardoli on Friday. The accused told police that he had received the message from a doctor in Surat city and that he shared it among members of a WhatsApp group in Bardoli. Police arrested Dhaval Chauhan, 30, a resident of Janta Nagar in Bardoli. He was later released on bail. The accused runs his clinic in the same area. He was booked under IT Act for spreading rumour. Police received information that some person has shared information in a WhatsApp group that one person has been found Covid-19 positive in Bardoli. Police traced the message to Chauhan. "The doctor shared the message without checking about its veracity and created panic through social media. He claims he just forwarded the wrong message that he received," said a police officer in Bardoli police station.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/doctor-arrested-for-spreading-rumour-in-bardoli-town/articleshow/75112596.cms||---
April 13, 2020||Vijayawada||Former SEC moves HC over removal||Vijayawada: Former state election commissioner Nimmagadda Ramesh Kumar has moved the Andhra Pradesh high court challenging the ordinance and the government decision to remove him by reducing the tenure of the SEC. In his petition, Kumar said the ordinance was unconstitutional under Article 213 as it violated the very purpose of the provision to promulgate an ordinance in emergent circumstances and there was no such situation in the state to promulgate an ordinance in the absence of the legislature. In his petition, Ramesh Kumar argued that the decision to postpone the local body elections was the reason behind the ordinance. He justified the decision to postpone the elections as the present situation vindicates that it would have been a catastrophe had the elections were not postponed. However, the ruling dispensation attributed ulterior motives to him and attacked him for his decision for postponing the elections, he said. The statements given by chief minister and his cabinet colleagues were in public domain. He said the circumstances clearly established that the power to promulgate ordinances was used to sub serve political ends. He argued that the promulgation of ordinance was a fraud on the constitutional scheme which seeks to undo constitutionally protected conditions of service under Article 243K by means of a legislation that even legislature is not empowered to do. Ramesh Kumar pointed out the manner in which the ordinance was promulgated and the subsequent GOs issued. He said the GOs were kept as confidential till late on Friday. Interestingly, the GOs notifying the ordinance and that of removing him as SEC came prior to the ordinance which in normal course have to come after the ordinance. Ramesh Kumar appealed to the high court to set aside the ordinance as the assent of the governor was not immune to judicial review when such ordinance violates the Constitution. He also relied upon earlier Supreme Court judgments to his justify his arguments. On the other hand, the sources in the government said that nowhere in either Article 243K of the Constitution nor in section 200 of the AP Panchayat Raj Act, 1994 mentioned that the tenure of the SEC should not be altered and the protection is confined to the service conditions. The contention of removal of the SEC would not arise as he was not removed but ceased to hold the office by virtue of the change in the Act. The state government also relied up on the judgment given by the Allahabad high court in a similar matter in 2007 where the tenure of the SEC was reduced by the government and the court has upheld the same. The high court is likely to take up the petition for hearing on Monday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/former-sec-moves-hc-over-removal/articleshow/75111874.cms||---
April 13, 2020||Chandigarh||Panjab University professor's 8-year-old daughter, mother-in-law test positive||CHANDIGARH: The 55-year-old mother-in-law and eight-year-old daughter of a Panjab University (PU) professor tested positive for novel coronavirus on Sunday, taking the total number of case to 21 in the city. The 20-day-old baby of the man, who was detected having the virus on April 10, tested negative for Covid-19. The samples of his 32-year-old wife were sent again - as they were insufficient - for testing. The 40-year-old professor had no travel or contact history. His 114 primary and secondary contacts have been traced. Out of these, four are family members and 110 community contacts, out of which three primary contacts have tested negative, while reports of two is awaited. The rest of the 105 are not showing any symptoms but have been quarantined, like the rest. The other contacts who have been sampled include four health workers from two private hospitals in Chandigarh and Mohali, a milkman and a grocery worker. "The mother-in-law and the daughter have been shifted to PGI's Covid-19 hospital after they were tested positive. The report of the professor's wife is awaited," said an official in the health department. The professor had been in two sectors in the city to buy medicines and vegetables. Prior to visiting Government Multi-specialty Hospital, Sector 16, he had been to a private hospital in Mohali, where his chest X-Ray and CT scan revealed coronavirus-like symptoms. He was asked to visit the Sector 16 hospital.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/panjab-university-professors-8-year-old-daughter-mother-in-law-test-positive/articleshow/75113934.cms||Shimona Kanwar
April 13, 2020||Mumbai||Bandra locals oppose corona victims’ burial||MUMBAI: The BMC’s decision to use the Bandra kabaristan to bury the bodies of Covid-19 victims has triggered protests among local residents as the burial ground shares a wall with the residential area of the Lane Varde Marg off Turner Road, close to G7 Multiplex. “There’s a high chance that the family members of a Covid-19 victim are infected too. If they come to our populated residential area for burial, it could prove dangerous for us. At least 65-70% of the residents are senior citizens, a high-risk group,” said Zameer Palamkote , joint chairman of the Area Local Management (ALM), which comprises 35-40 buildings. The kabaristan is located 50m away from the residential area. GROUND REALITYShelar, corporator oppose BMC moveThere are a few families living inside the kabaristan too. “On Sunday, a few civic workers started digging in the kabaristan. They left only after those living on the burial ground called the police,” Sanjay Naik, who lives right next to the kabaristan, told TOI. “We are opposed to the BMC’s decision as it could be a health hazard for us residents. The coronavirus infection stays in the body for a long time, so, ideally, one shouldn’t bury the deceased. If they want to bury bodies, they should do it in an isolated area,” added Naik, who is also Mumbai Cricket Association secretary. Bandra (west) MLA Ashish Shelar and local corporator Swapna Mhatre too are opposed to the civic body’s controversial move. They plan to go to the BMC headquarters on Monday to represent this issue. “We will represent people’s opposition to the BMC circular to the municipal corporation and the state government,” Shelar told TOI. Mhatre added: “It is important that those’ve died due to this infection be buried properly, but… doesn’t mean you put the others at risk.” TOI’s efforts to contact BMC chief Praveen Pardeshi for comment were futile. BMC must put its notification of health hazzards if any to the people living in close proximity of the place where… https://t.co/hJ3WVlNbRR— Akram اکرم अकरम (@akramzkhan) 1586697009000Bandra residents also took to Twitter to make their protestes heard. “BMC must put its notification of health hazards, if any, to the people living in close proximity of the place where Covid19 deceased are going to be buried. People are panicking in Bandra west.@mybmc @mybmc-WardHW @AUThackeray @CPMumbaiPolice @MumbaiPolice,” tweeted Akram Z Khan, who lives adjacent to the kabaristan. Fifty of his family members live inside the kabaristan, he told TOI.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/bandra-locals-oppose-corona-victims-burial/articleshow/75113924.cms||Gaurav Gupta
April 13, 2020||Surat||Valsad hospital trains docs, nurses to fight Covid outbreak||SURAT: True to its mission of service to humanity, Shrimad Rajchandra Hospital (SRH) at Dharampur town in Valsad district is at the forefront of the fight against Covid-19 pandemic. Not only its doctors are training frontline staff of government hospitals in combating Covid-19, the trust associated with the hospital is donating medical equipment too. Shrimad Rajchandra Love and Care (SRLC,) an initiative of Shrimad Rajchandra Mission, Dharampur, which runs the multispeciality hospital, has been inspired by the teachings of Shrimad Rajchandra, the spiritual guru of Mahatma Gandhi. SRLC has so far donated masks (1,5000), biosuits (500), sanitizer (400 litres) and beds (100) to government hospitals in Gujarat and other parts of the country. SRH doctors have trained approximately 66 government doctors and over 50 nurses too. "We have taken steps to equip, train and protect healthcare professionals and paramedical staff of hospitals that are battling the virus. In association with Government of Gujarat, we are distributing personal protective equipment (PPE) and helping institutions to build medical infrastructure for treatment of patients,” Dr. Bijal Mehta, a member of one of the trusts associated with the hospital, told TOI. "It is crucial to boost manpower and equip doctors with the knowledge of using these amenities correctly for treatment of Covid-19 patients. Owing to their expertise, SRH doctors are not only training other doctors to treat early symptom patients, but also providing advanced incubation and ventilation training to government doctors for treating critical Covid-19 patients. They have also been training doctors and paramedical staff to monitor ventilators correctly and different techniques of incubation. Our expert doctors have trained 66 government doctors and over 50 nurses so far. Government of Gujarat has designated SRH as a first referral unit (FRU) in Valsad district,'' Dr Mehta, an ophthalmologist, said. In order to help poor people from nearby tribal areas, SRH, which was set up in April 2003, continues to accept emergency cases and those of deliveries.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/valsad-hospital-trains-docs-nurses-to-fight-covid-outbreak/articleshow/75112619.cms||Vijaysinh Parmar
April 13, 2020||Chandigarh||Summer break may be from April 15-May 15 in Chandigarh schools||CHANDIGARH: After Punjab, the Chandigarh administration has now decided to declare early summer vacations in government schools from next week, said a senior official of the education department on Sunday. The decision on the dates will be taken in a meeting expected to be held on Monday and not be binding on private schools. Sources said the tentative dates are from April 15-May 15. Rubinderjit Singh Brar, school education director, said the department would announce advancing the summer vacations for government and government-aided schools, and private schools "may or may not follow" it. In the wake of Covid-19 outbreak, the Punjab government on Friday announced summer vacations in the state. Education minister Vijay Inder Singla had tweeted, "Keeping in view the Covid-19 situation, the government has decided to prepone summer vacations of schools, which shall extend from April 11-May 10. The students of Punjab State Education Board classes V and VIII shall be promoted based on exams and assignments given before the lockdown." Last week, Independent Schools Association formed by private schools of Chandigarh had written to the education department, requesting advancing the vacations, but the department had left it to them to take a call. After the letter, many schools preponed the vacations, including AKSIPS schools and Vivek High School, while many others were forming a plan.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/summer-break-may-be-from-april-15-may-15-in-chandigarh-schools/articleshow/75113953.cms||Kamini Mehta
April 13, 2020||Navi-mumbai||Navi Mumbai: APMC grains and spices market shut from today||NAVI MUMBAI: Following the complete shutdown of vegetables and fruits market yards at Vashi APMC since Saturday due to corona scare, remaining two wholesale markets for grains and spices too will be shut from Monday as traders, transporters and mathadi workers decided to discontinue operations due to the rising number of cases. The Panvel APMC has been closed from Friday midnight since social distancing was not maintained in the market yard. According to traders, over 300 truckloads of grains and spices are piled up inside and outside the market yards due to shortage of manpower to unload and load as many stopped coming to the market for fear of contracting the infection. Anil Chavan, APMC administrator and secretary, said, “We have learnt that traders, transporters and workers decided to stop business from Monday. We can’t force these stakeholders to continue work. But we have sanitised and disinfected all five markets over the weekend.” The decision to stop work was taken after an APMC trader tested positive on Wednesday. Kirti Rana, head of Navi Mumbai Merchant Chamber, said, “There’s no scarcity of essentials. Retails shops at APMC will be open but workers and transporters are unlikely to attend. We expect workers to be back from April 15 if they are given transport.” Mathadi leader Narendra Patil said, “We have demanded crowd management, a cap on number of vehicles and passes for workers and employees of traders and limited visitors.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/navi-mumbai/apmc-grains-and-spices-market-shut-from-today/articleshow/75113956.cms||B B Nayak
April 13, 2020||India||Asked to stick to curbs, Nihangs cut off ASI’s arm||PATIALA/CHANDIGARH: A Nihang dera head and 10 of his followers were arrested on Sunday for chopping off a Punjab Police ASI's hand in a brutal assault on a patrol team that had asked them to show their curfew passes while visiting a wholesale vegetable market in Patiala’s Sanaur in the morning. As 50-year-old ASI Harjit Singh underwent a seven-and-a-half-hour-long surgery at PGIMER Chandigarh to reattach his severed left hand, a joint team of Patiala police and the special operations group was engaged in a tense stand-off with the Nihangs at their dera in Balbera, around 25km from Patiala. The 11 accused, including a woman, were arrested after the joint team of police and the special operations group braved gunshots fired from inside the complex to enter the dera, which includes the Khichri Sahib Gurdwara. A large cache of weapons and an unspecified quantity of drugs were seized from the complex. DGP Dinkar Gupta said dera head Baba Balwinder Singh, the main accused, and his followers had refused to surrender despite repeated appeals from the police team, led by IG (Patiala range) Jatinder Aulakh and Patiala SSP Mandeep Sidhu. "The Nihangs had set up barricades inside the complex and placed LPG cylinders along the dera perimeter, threatening to set off explosions if the police team advanced," he said. The police got the sarpanch of Balbera and some other villagers to go in and persuade the Nihangs to surrender, but they wouldn't relent. They moved in after hearing shouts from inside the complex, raising suspicion that some people might be trapped inside, the DGP said. In the morning, a pickup truck carrying Baba Balwinder Singh and his followers had allegedly crashed through a series of barricades before attacking the police personnel who had enquired whether they were carrying curfew passes to step out during the lockdown. The dera head and four of his followers attacked the cops with their swords, one of which sliced through ASI Harjit's left hand, a police official said. Three other cops – inspector Bikkar Singh and ASIs Raj Singh and Raghbir Singh – were injured in the assault. A Mandi Board official, AR Yadwinder Singh, suffered minor injuries. The Nihangs sped away in the pickup truck after the attack and remained holed up in their dera till the police entered the complex several hours later. The DGP said the entire operation was handled "delicately" to ensure that the sanctity of the Gurdwara Sahib inside the dera complex wasn't harmed. The weapons and other items seized from the dera include barchhes (spears), kirpans (swords), used cartridges, two petrol bombs and bottles containing chemicals. Five bags of poppy husk mixed with sulpha, some other drugs and Rs 39 lakh in cash were confiscated, too. Two cases have been registered against the accused — against five of them for the attack in the morning and the entire group for firing at the police from their dera. Doctors at PGIMER said ASI Harjit's prognosis was good and that he would remain under observation for another 48 hours. "The severed hand was brought in a good condition. After fixing the bones and restoring some veins and arteries for circulation, we repaired the tendons and nerves. The remaining corresponding arteries and veins were then connected. As the hand was warm, we managed to restore blood circulation," said Dr Ramesh Sharma, head of plastic surgery at the hospital.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/asked-to-stick-to-curbs-nihangs-cut-off-asis-arm/articleshow/75113965.cms||Manish Sirhindi
April 13, 2020||Chandigarh||Chandigarh: Cat-and-mouse chase continues, 12,000 violators detained in 21 days||CHANDIGARH: As many as 12,262 people have been detained for violating the curfew norms from March 23 to April 12 from different parts of the city. The police have also registered 241 FIRs and arrested 295 people under relevant sections of the Indian Peal Code. The cops keep the detainees for 6 to 8 hours at the Cricket Stadium in Sector 16 and the sports complex of Manimajra. They are released after submitting an undertaking. The police also note down their contact details before letting them free. The UT police also registered four separate FIRs and booked two persons for sharing and posting videos against a community on social media. Even after 21 days of the lockdown, the police are still arresting hundreds of violators every day. The police have also impounded 3,608 vehicles from violators from March 23 till April 12. 7,276 people were detained by six police stations, including sectors19 and 26, Manimajra, Mauli Jagran, IT Park and Industrial Area Phase I of east division. Cops from police stations of sectors 31, 34, 36, 39, 49, and Maloya nabbed 2,700 violators till April 12. The police teams from sectors 3, 17, and 11 and Sarangpur apprehended 2,286 people in the past 21 days.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/chandigarh-cat-and-mouse-chase-continues-12000-violators-detained-in-21-days/articleshow/75113979.cms||Pawan Tiwari
April 13, 2020||Thane||Thane (E) to be cut off to keep it coronavirus-free||THANE: Kopri will be cut off from the rest of Thane to prevent the entry of suspected/infected coronavirus cases into the area, Thane municipal commissioner Vijay Singhal announced on Sunday. The decision was taken following a ward-wise analysis of positive cases by Singhal, who directed that wards in Thane be classified into red, orange and green zones, depending on the number of infected people reported here. Kopri, which has no Covid-19 cases so far, was the only area marked as green zone. Mumbra and Kalwa, which were tagged red zones, will also be cordoned off to prevent any infected person from moving out and spreading contamination. Only police, civic staffers associated with essential services, and milk and grocery delivery will be allowed in the ward, said Sandeep Malvi, deputy municipal commissioner. A final report of the ward classification will be ready by Monday morning, he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/thane/thane-e-to-be-cut-off-to-keep-it-coronavirus-free/articleshow/75113984.cms||Manoj Badgeri
April 13, 2020||Kolkata||2 ordnance factories get nod to test PPE material||Kolkata: A major hurdle in the production of coveralls has been cleared, with the National Accreditation Bo-ard for Testing and Calibration Laboratories (NABL) authorising two ordnance factories to carry out ‘blood penetration resistance’ tests on material used for this vital piece of clothing that is part of Personal Protection Equipment. Till now, only the South India Textile Research Association in Coimbatore was authorised to carry out such tests. PPE is mandatory for doctors and medical staff as well as others handling possible Covid-19 patients. Poor quality material used to make coveralls would not only put such frontline workers but also others who come in contact with them at risk. Recently, the Ordnance Clothing Factory at Shahjahanpur produced material for coveralls. However, every batch needs to be tested and certified before use. “On Saturday, Small Arms Factory (SAF), Kanpur and Heavy Vehicles Factory (HVF), Avadi, were granted accreditation to conduct the ‘test for blood penetration resistance’ after the equipment manufactured by them met required standards. The basic principle of the test is to expose the fabric to synthetic blood at different pressure levels for specified periods of time. Such trials are extremely crucial to prevent the spread of Covid-19,” a ministry of defence spokesperson said. According to him, the facilities at SAF and HVF will not only be open for material manufactured at ordnance factories but also other units across the country. Material produced at Shahjahanpur will also not be confined to military hospitals but be distributed as per demand and production capacity. Several ordnance factories had vied to manufacture equipment required for such tests and at least two of them came up with designs in less than a fortnight. “With facilities for such tests only being available at SITRA till now, there was a major crisis, particularly during the lockdown when movement is a problem. Now, we have an additional facility in south India and one in north India. This will ease the process. There is no use manufacturing coveralls with material that has not been tested. The Ordnance Factory Board can now ramp up production of coveralls in its clothing factories, four of which are in UP and one in TN,” the MoD official added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/2-ordnance-factories-get-nod-to-test-ppe-material/articleshow/75113592.cms||Jayanta Gupta
April 13, 2020||Kolkata||West Bengal government makes masks mandatory in public places||KOLKATA: Covering your mouth and nose is now mandatory in Bengal in case you step out of your home, but you are free to use ‘any piece of cloth’ as protection. In an order issued by chief secretary Rajiva Sinha on Sunday, the state government said it is critical to adopt “all possible measures for saving people from exposure to coronavirus” and added that it “shall be mandatory to use this cover always, especially in public places”. Any violation is likely to attract a penalty. According to a senior official, any government order is legally enforcible under section 188 of IPC, which gives police the power to arrest and prosecute those who violate it. The offence is bailable and carries a maximum penalty of six months’ imprisonment. Several other states including Maharastra, Delhi, Odisha, UP, Madhya Pradesh and Telangana have issued similar orders to contain the spread of coronavirus. The Bengal government’s order is flexible on the kind of material to be used to cover the face. It says the “mouth and nose should be covered by facial masks or any other available piece of cloth which may even include a properly folded or rolled dupatta, gamcha, handkerchief or any such material that acts as a protective cover”. This is in keeping with TOI’s #MaskIndia initiative that urges people to cover up to beat back the virus and encourages the use of home-made masks. Any piece of cloth better than not using a cover at all’A mask or any other piece of cloth covering the mouth and nose is essential to prevent transmission of Covid-19, said RN Tagore International Institute of Cardiac Sciences (RTIICS) consultant Arindam Biswas. “In case you are suffering from a cold, a mask is a must even in home quarantine. The rest should also be using an N95 mask if they are part of a gathering or travelling in public transport. In case one can’t get hold of it, any piece of cloth is better than not using a cover at all,” said Biswas. A mask serves two purposes: it protects you from infection and protects those around you from a viral attack, said pulmonologist Raja Dhar. “If you are healthy, then a mask should be used when you are travelling in public transport or visiting a place where a fairly large number of people are likely to gather. This mask could be made of anything, even a paper mask which covers your mouth and nose adequately,” said Dhar. “But in case you get closer than six feet to a Covid-19 patient or one with symptoms, an N95 mask or a surgical mask is safer,” he added. “So, other than doctors, hospital staff or family members of the infected, the rest can use any mask,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/bengal-govt-makes-masks-mandatory-in-public-places/articleshow/75113655.cms||---
April 13, 2020||Kolkata||Stricter vigil over 27 KMC wards||KOLKATA: The Kolkata Municipal Corporation has identified 27 civic (KMC) wards — where Covid-19 cases have been reported — for stricter vigil. This plan is a part of the state government’s long-term micro-cluster confinement strategy to contain, test and treat people in these zones. Mayor Firhad Hakim on Saturday held a meeting with city police commissioner Anuj Sharma to discuss the modalities of taking — and enforcing — special measures, which requires people to stay at home, without the scope of venturing out unless there is an emergency. Hakim also held marathon meetings with the civic brass, including the municipal commissioner and senior officials of all essential services departments. As part of a strategy, access to markets will be regulated in the specified 27 wards to prevent crowding. According to a senior officer at Lalbazar, cops will also persuade people to attend the fever clinics set up by KMC. Special KMC teams will then conduct a door-to-door survey, checking on the health of all people in these clusters. According to KMC sources, the civic body’s social sector department will need to distribute essentials — such as rice, wheat and pulses — among people under the poverty line. The social sector department may take help of civic volunteers to send such staples at their doorsteps. The corporation’s solid waste management department has been asked to conduct regular sanitization drives at the specified zones, as earmarked in the Covid-19 map prepared by the state government, in consultation with public health experts. Officials of the market department have been asked to ensure that traders in all KMC markets keep their stalls rotationally closed to avoid crowding. At Lalbazar, commissioner Sharma held several meetings with senior police officers to formulate a standard operating procedure for Covid-19-sensitive areas. “The first step is to help KMC health department officers identify patients and take them to hospital. The police will tackle all law-and-order issues. We will also help the KMC and the state administration to trace all those who need to be quarantined. For this purpose, an IPS officer will act as the nodal officer,” said a senior officer. KMC councillors in the sensitive areas have been requested to conduct a special awareness drive, asking people to stay at home. The councillors have also been urged to take care of migrant labourers who are stuck in their respective wards because of the lockdown. Clarifying that the state was not in favour of sealing any part of Kolkata, a senior Nabanna official said they were keeping track of areas with a concentration of Covid-19-positive cases. The official added that the police had been asked to restrict movement in those areas. A plan was also being worked out to supply food at doorsteps. “In case of an acute medicine crisis, police will procure them,” said a state government official. A Trinamool councillor from Picnic Garden on Sunday said over 15,000 food packets were being readied to be distributed among migrant labourers and the impoverished in areas such as Tiljala, Topsia, Park Circus and Picnic Garden, among others.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/stricter-vigil-over-27-kmc-wards/articleshow/75113656.cms||Saikat Ray
April 13, 2020||Kolkata||TMC reaches out to people with food and supplies||Kolkata: From helplines and community kitchens to doorstep delivery of essentials, Trinamool Congress has rolled out a state-wide outreach to people struggling to cope with the coronavirus pandemic crisis. Party MP Abhishek Banerjee has already started an ambitious initiative, Kalpataru, which on Sunday reached out to nearly 60,000 people. Bengal ministers Chandrima Bhattacharya and Rajiv Banerjee, among others, have also rolled out doorstep delivery of essentials while urging people to stay indoors. Abhishek’s Kalpataru initiative will be an attempt to reach out to all those in need in his Diamond Harbour constituency over the next 12 days. People were asked to register via a helpline number (033-40876262) from Friday. Abhishek has urged people “who have no means of or access to obtaining food” to register for help. Party workers have started running 21 community kitchens across seven assembly constituencies, which have nearly 1.8 million people. A senior Trinamool functionary said: “Though we decided to cater to 40,000 initially, the registration has exceeded (that number), and on the very first day, more than 60,000 people have been supplied with rice and egg curry.” Bhattacharya, the minister of state for health, is starting a similar initiative in New Barrackpore area from April 15. “It is a collaborative effort between New Barrackpore Municipality and police. The 20 wards have been divided into five zones. A person needs to make a call to the helpline number and place his/her requirement. Police or municipal staff will deliver the goods, like daily ration and medicines, on the doorstep,” she said. “People will have to call for lunch before 10am and for dinner before 6pm. Packed food will be supplied against a minimum charge,” Bhattacharya added. Forest minister Rajiv Banerjee, who has kicked off a similar exercise, said: “We are supplying packed meals to more than 400 people every day. Both morning and evening, we pack the cooked food and stop at certain points and deliver it to people who cannot arrange daily meals,” he said. “Most people are getting their ration. So we decided to give cooked food only to those who don’t have access to the ration system,” Banerjee added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/tmc-reaches-out-to-people-with-food-and-supplies/articleshow/75113597.cms||---
April 13, 2020||Kolkata||Door-to-door check in Tehatta after 5 test +ve||Tehatta: In a first, the Nadia administration is conducting a door-to-door health check in a Tehatta village, where five members of a family tested Covid-19 positive on March 28. The five, residents of Delhi and Uttarakhand, had come to their relative’s home for a family event. They have been released from hospital and are staying here now. Deputy CMOH II (Nadia) Asit Kumar Dewan said: “A 36-member health department team, including some medical officers, is moving door to door at Barnia gram panchayat’s Srikrishnapur village since Saturday. Adequate measures will be taken if anyone is detected with fever-like symptoms. Four persons were found with mild fever and we will collect their swabs.” Of the 2,250-odd villagers here, 700 underwent a check-up on Saturday and the rest on Sunday, Dewan added. “We enforced strict lockdown measures in the village on Saturday. It will continue for an indefinite period,” Nadia DM Vibhu Goyel said on Sunday. Panchayat member Sudhir Roy said: “An announcement was made at Srikrishnapur village last night telling the villagers to stay at home.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/door-to-door-check-in-tehatta-after-5-test-ve/articleshow/75113598.cms||Ashis Poddar
April 13, 2020||Kolkata||Two dead after drinking medical shop ‘liquor’ in West Bengal||CONTAI (EAST MIDNAPORE): Two persons, including a teenager, died after reportedly consuming alcohol purchased from a homoeopathy medicine shop in East Midnapore on Saturday. Two more are admitted at the Contai Sub Division Hospital in a serious condition. Normally, homoeopathy medicine contains ethanol, which is not poisonous. While the postmortem reports are awaited, the police have started a probe and traced the shop at Marishda Market. According to the cops, the four youths from Sillabari village under Marishda PS went to the shop at the local market on Friday and purchased the liquid. After consuming it, all four fell asleep and only woke up late on Saturday. Two of them were feeling unwell and when relatives asked what they had, they refused to answer. Finally, they complained of severe stomach cramps and irritation. They also refused to eat. On the way to hospital, the four admitted that they had “medicine” from the shop at Marishda. Soon after the four were wheeled into the hospital, Bharat Das (18) and Pankaj Das (33), died. Angshu Das and Gautam Das are still unconscious. “The four used to drink occasionally. Somebody told them that alcohol purchased from a homoeopathy medicine shop would give them the same kick. We can’t say for sure what they actually had,” said Pratima Das, a relative. “We have started an investigation and are trying to find out whether others are involved,” said Indira Mukhopadhyay, SP, East Midnapore.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/2-dead-after-drinking-medical-shop-liquor/articleshow/75113663.cms||Suman Mondal
April 13, 2020||Ranchi||Ranchi residents prevent burial of Covid-19 casualty||Ranchi: Residents of two localities in the city on Sunday prevented the district administration from disposing the body of the deceased Covid-19 patient at their burial grounds. Till the time of going to the press, the body was still kept at the morgue of Rajendra Institute of Medical Sciences (Rims), where the patient died during treatment in the morning. Initially, Ranchi Municipal Corporation (RMC) authorities tried to bury the body at the Joda Talaab burial ground in Bariatu here. As soon as the authorities deployed an earthmover to disposed of the body at a location further away from the normal burial areas, residents turned out in large numbers, violating the lockdown, and prevented the burial, claiming that chances of infecting them are high as the ground is close to the densely populated area. Similar protests by over 200 residents were witnessed at the burial ground near Ratu road when the authorities went to dispose the body there after their initial bid failed. The protesters refused even after Ranchi SDM Lokesh Mishra and sadar DSP Deepk Pandey intervened. Later, SP (traffic) Ajit Peter Dungdung managed to defuse the tension and sent the protesters home after he assured them that the body will not buried at the ground. Mishra said, “We have cancelled our plans of burying the body within the city limits and we are looking for an appropriate place outside city for the purpose.” Health secretary Nitin Madan Kulkarni said he had already directed all 24 district administration and civic body officials to make necessary arrangements for disposing bodies of Covid-19 patients in accordance with the guidelines issued by Union ministry of health and family welfare. “We have communicated to all DCs in advance about the guidelines and they have to make necessary arrangements accordingly,” Kulkarni said. He further said, “We have enough leak-proof plastic bags to transport bodies of Covid-19 patients and there are specific guidelines on cremation as well as burial which are being followed at all Covid-19 centres in state.” RMC municipal commissioner Manoj Kumar said, “We are strictly following all guidelines which include sanitization of the burial pit before and after burying the body. The workers involved have been provided with protective gear, including PPE kits and hand sanitizers. So, we are not facing any issue to get the bodies disposed.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/ranchi-residents-prevent-burial-of-covid-19-casualty/articleshow/75112991.cms||Gaurav Pandey
April 13, 2020||Ranchi||Rich people make beelines to daal bhaat centres in Ramgarh||Ramgarh: It is not just the poor, but also people from rich, well-to-do families are queuing up before Mukhyamantri Daal Bhaat Kendras for free meals in Ramgarh. Given the large number of people availing the free meals, the district administration on Saturday said it is finding it hard to keep these centres operational due to resource and financial crunch. Assistant district supply officer Raj Shekhar said, “There are 28 dal bhaat centres, including five in police stations, to provide food to the poor twice daily. However, in remote villages, we are seeing that a lot of rich people, who have palatial homes and tractors are also availing free meals and triggering problems for us to manage the kitchens. As per rules, we cannot deny food to anyone coming here.” Officials in the district supply department said if the trend continues, then these centres, meant to distribute free meals to migrant and daily wage labourers during the lockdown period, may cease to function because of resource crunch. Shekhar added, “In some places, our officials have humbly requested the rich people to not come to these centres, but to no avail.” An official on the condition of anonymity said, “The centres in Gola and Mandu blocks have a capacity to feed 200 persons daily, but their capcity has almost doubled in the recent times and it is difficult to make allotment of for food. The situation is such that in many villages, the entire population is coming for free food at these centres to avoid hassles of cooking at their homes and save their ration.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/rich-people-make-beelines-to-daal-bhaat-centres-in-ramgarh/articleshow/75113006.cms||N K Agarwal
April 13, 2020||India||#MaskIndia: Masks must in Gujarat, Haryana, Bengal||CHANDIGARH/AHMEDABAD: Haryana, Gujarat and Bengal on Sunday made wearing of masks mandatory for everyone stepping out. Several districts in Haryana, including Gurgaon and Faridabad, have already made masks mandatory for everyone in public. Haryana made the announcement just days after Chandigarh and Punjab took the same step.  The Haryana home department said in its order that non-compliance would attract punishment and authorised cops to challan offenders. "The order on masks doesn't mean people have to buy masks from markets. They can even use a piece of cloth as well," said home minister Anil Vij. It's time to mask up and stay safe: Join TOI's #MaskIndia campaignWearing of masks in public was also made mandatory in major cities of Gujarat including Ahmedabad, Surat, Rajkot and Vadodara. More on Covid-19Coronavirus pandemic: Complete Coverage21-day lockdown: What will stay open and what won'tHow to quarantine yourself at homeTrust the newspaper for your daily verified news||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/corona-masks-must-in-guj-haryana-bengal/articleshow/75114008.cms||---
April 13, 2020||Chandigarh||Mist fans sanitise shoppers in Panchkula||PANCHKULA: The administration and markets in various sectors have come up with a new idea of sanitising people. They have decided to install mist fans filled with a solution of hydrogen peroxide and silver disinfectant outside their shops to sanitise customers. According to shopkeepers, people who are not following precautions are being sanitised with this new way of spraying a mist of anti-virus solution. While providing details, shopkeepers said instead of giving sanitisers to each and every person coming to their shops, they have come up with this unique idea. "We are using solution of hydrogen peroxide and silver disinfectant to fill the tank of the fan. The tank runs for several hours without refilling it," said shopkeepers. A chemist in Sector 6 came up with this idea and now a lot of shopkeepers are adopting the same outside their shops to make the environment safe for their employees as well as customers. Besides this, they are also focusing on social distancing and using gloves, masks and sanitisers while working. One of the shopkeepers said, "Our motive is to provide sanitised area for people. Residents feel safe and they are also aware of the consequences." Apart from this, a team of the fire department has been given the charge to find public places where people visit to buy essentials so that the market areas are sanitised. Rajbir Singh, fire station officer and sanitising officer of Panchkula, said, "We are regularly conducting sanitiser spray in all the sectors. Spray solution remains effective for two days and doesn't allow any virus or bacteria. My team is working day and night to make it successful."||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/mist-fans-sanitise-shoppers-in-panchkula/articleshow/75114013.cms||Arvind Bishnoi
April 13, 2020||India||India's corona count tops 9,000; deaths surge past 300||NEW DELHI: India’s count of coronavirus cases crossed 9,000 on Sunday while the death toll went past 300 on a day when 763 fresh cases and as many as 39 deaths were reported from states. Maharashtra contributed heavily to both figures even as five people succumbed to the disease in Delhi. Maharashtra reported 221 fresh cases and 22 deaths, both second-highest single-day figures for the state (or any other state in India). The state has so far recorded 1982 Covid-19 cases and 149 deaths. Mumbai alone accounted for 16 deaths, its highest toll in a day, and 152 new cases. The total number of coronavirus cases in the country stood at 9,188 late on Sunday night with 763 fresh cases, while the death toll was 329. It's time to mask up and stay safe: Join TOI's #MaskIndia campaignThe Covid-19 outbreak has now spread to more than 350 districts, covering almost 50% of the country, sources said. Cases in the country have double in the past six days since around 4,700 were reported on April 6. This could indicate a slight slowing of the doubling rate, from 4.2 days reported a few days ago. On Sunday, Delhi confirmed 85 new cases, taking its tally of cases to 1,154 – the second highest in the country after Maharashtra. The five deaths reported in the capital took the total toll to 24. Nearly 64% of the total cases in Delhi were linked to the Nizamuddin cluster. Another hotspot in the state is a cancer hospital in east Delhi — Delhi State Cancer Institute — where 26 persons including doctors, nurses and some patients have been found positive for the novel coronavirus. One cancer patient, who was shifted to a private hospital last week, was confirmed positive for Covid-19 on Sunday. His attendant has also tested positive for the disease, sources said. The Covid-19 outlook remained grim in Tamil Nadu and Rajasthan, which recorded 106 and 104 new cases, taking their total tally to 1,075 and 804, respectively. Both states also recorded fresh death, one in Tamil Nadu and two in Rajasthan. Meanwhile, Agra has emerged as another hotspot for the virus in Uttar Pradesh. Of the 491 cases recorded in the state, Agra district now accounts for 104 cases. Gujarat recorded 48 new cases, taking the state’s tally to 516. Of the fresh positives, 39 were recorded from Ahmedabad alone, taking the city’s tally to 282. Vadodara on Sunday became the second Gujarat city to cross the three-figure mark, with its tally climbing to 101. Till the time of the official briefing by the state health department, the death toll in Gujarat was 24 – with two more deaths recorded from Ahmedabad on Sunday. However, one more death was also recorded from Vadodara later in the evening, taking the tally to 25. The three COVID-19 victims included a 75-year-old man from Ghodasar area in Ahmedabad who also had hypertension, a 60-year-old woman from Ahmedabad who had lung disease and a resident of Nagarwada in Vadodara who already had dengue, officials said. Karnataka reported 17 new Covid-19 cases — its biggest single-day jump yet — taking the total count of the infected to 232. One more person died due to Covid-19 in Andhra Pradesh taking the state’s death toll to two. A total of 420 people have been confirmed positive for Covid-19 in the state. In Telangana, two more people died from Covid-19 on Sunday taking its death toll to 16. Telangana CM K Chandrasekhar Rao said, “It is clear the coronavirus is not stopping and it's spreading. There is an increase in positive cases all over the country and the death toll has also increased.” Telangana's overall coronavirus tally rose to 531 on Sunday. There was some cheer from Kerala, which recorded only two positive cases on Sunday while 36 people were declared recovered and had tested negative for the disease. In Jammu and Kashmir, 21 new coronavirus cases were reported, taking the total tally to 245. Two more positive cases of Covid-19 were detected in Jharkhand taking the total number of positive cases in state to 19 of which 17 are active and two have died. In Chhattisgarh’s biggest Covid-19 spike, 13 people tested positive on Sunday in Katghora town – which was sealed three days ago after eight persons got infected due to contact with a group of Jamaatis isolated in a mosque. This small town now accounts for 22 of Chhattisgarh’s 30 cases, the majority of which can apparently be traced back to a 16-year-old boy from Nagpur, whose own source of infection is yet unknown. The teenager — patient zero of Katghora — was discharged from AIIMS-Raipur on Sunday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/indias-corona-count-tops-9000-16-deaths-in-mumbai/articleshow/75113679.cms||Durgesh Nandan Jha
April 13, 2020||Bengaluru||17 cases in Karnataka in biggest daily jump||BENGALURU/VIJAYAPURA: Karnataka on Sunday reported 17 Covid-19 cases - its biggest single-day jump yet - taking the total count of the infected to 232.  A 68-year-old Vijayapura resident, whose 60-year-old wife had tested positive earlier in the morning, breathed his last in the night. He had been hospitalised earlier for various ailments and his Covid-19 test results are awaited, Viijayapura officials said.  Six cases are from Vijayapura, making it the 19th district to report a Covid-19 infection. Of the remaining cases, four were from Belagavi, three each from Kalaburagi and Bengaluru Urban limits and one from Mysuru. Four cases are contacts of Tablighi Jamaat members, who had tested positive. Fifteen patients were declared cured and discharged in the past 24 hours, taking the total number of cured patients to 54. 2-year-old Kalaburagi boy tests positiveSix p atients have died of the infection in the state. The Vijayapura woman and a two-year-old boy from Kalaburagi - both have severe acute respiratory infection (SARI) - were among the new patients. The other patients are boys aged 10 and 13, a 12-year-old girl, a 20-year-old woman and a 49-year-old man. Contact tracing has been initiated in all the cases, officials said. Reports from Vijayapura said the SARI woman had recently travelled to Maharashtra. In Mysuru, a 32-year-old man linked to a Nanjangud pharma company cluster tested positive. In Bengaluru, a 58-year-old man who returnedfrom Indonesia on March 21, a 75-year-old woman and a 76-year-old man tested positive. Two Kalaburagi women, aged 38 and 24, tested positive, taking the total number to eight. They were contacts of a 65-year-old man, the fifth fatality of Covid-19. In Raibagh, Belagavi, three contacts of a 41-year-old woman were among the patients. The men are aged 19, 55 and 25. In Hirebagewadi in Belagavi, a 38-year-old man, a contact of a Tabligh event attendee, has tested positive.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/17-cases-in-karnataka-in-biggest-daily-jump/articleshow/75114019.cms||---
April 13, 2020||India||Covid-19: Maharashtra may hand out anti-malaria drug as preventive med||MUMBAI: Worried that Covid-19 cases may rise exponentially in the city's densely populated slums, the Maharashtra government is considering giving hydroxychloroquine sulphate (HCQS) tablets as a "preventive medicine" to slum residents at highest risk of the infection. Read our coronavirus live blog for all the latest news and updatesA high-ranking state government official said suspected patients kept in quarantine centres in Dharavi were likely to be the first to receive HCQS-an antimalarial drug that US president Donald Trump wanted India to supply to the US as it could be a "game-changer" in the fight against Covid-19. "In places like Dharavi, the plan is more a socio-demographic compulsion," the state government official said. It's time to mask up and stay safe: Join TOI's #MaskIndia campaignIf the state plans go through, it could be the first time that HCQS is used as a Covid-19 prophylaxis at the community level. Confirming the move, Maharashtra health minister Rajesh Tope said, "HCQS is used to treat malaria and there have been instances of it being used in the US as a preventive medicine against Covid-19. We plan to use it in areas like Dharavi where the risk of infection is high." Details such as the number of people, dosage and duration of treatment are being worked out. More on Covid-19Coronavirus pandemic: Complete Coverage21-day lockdown: What will stay open and what won'tHow to quarantine yourself at homeTrust the newspaper for your daily verified newsAt present, the Indian Council for Medical Research (ICMR) approves HCQS as a preventive medicine for healthcare workers only. Dr Subhash Salunkhe, technical advisor to the state on pandemic control, said, “There is adequate medical literature to show that HCQS use will have definite advantages at this stage." He added the HCQS plan will have stringent exclusion criteria as it is known to affect heart and retina. Tope also said that there is no problem with HCQS supply in the state. “Of course, the whole of Dharavi will not be given the drug. We cannot waste resources like that," he said. People will categorised into groups: those in high risk, those in government quarantine, and those in contact with positive patients. HCQS is not only used to treat malaria, but is routinely prescribed to patients with diabetes, rheumatoid arthritis and lupus. Infectious diseases specialist Dr Om Srivastava said, “HCQS has a role as a preventive medication in Covid as it is can modulate the immune system." Dr Shashank Joshi, dean of Indian College of Physicians, said, “There have been no clinical trial to prove HCQS works, but it could prevent a cytokine storm in mild to moderate cases." TOI has learnt that the state will send a formal proposal to the Centre and ICMR within a day or two. “Once the paperwork is in place, we will distribute tablets among people in quarantine centres in Dharavi," said an official. Health officials are worried cases could spread rapidly in densely-populated areas. Another officer said that if the drug works well in Dharavi, “we may consider using it in other pockets as well". Both Tope and Dr Salunkhe refused to give details such as how many people would be provided the drug and when will the treatment will start. But sources said that the HCQS plan has already been discussed with the national Covid task force team. ``In India, HCQS is being suggested as a preventive medicine or for those with mild symptoms. In the US, they want to use it for seriously ill patients but there is little evidence to suggest that it works in such cases,’’ said a public hospital doctor.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/maharashtra-may-hand-out-anti-malaria-drug-as-preventive-med/articleshow/75113510.cms||Bhavika Jain
April 13, 2020||Lucknow||Uttar Pradesh: CM forms panels to revive economy after lockdown||LUCKNOW: In a bid to revive the state economy hit by the lockdown, chief minister Yogi Adityanath on Sunday announced setting up of committees for various sectors, including education, construction and health. The committees will start working from April 15, a day after the 21-day lockdown ends. While Yogi did not spell out any plan of extending the lockdown, he announced that the committees would start the normal functioning of various sectors. While deputy chief minister Keshav Maurya will head a committee to oversee construction work including expediting the work on various expressways, the committee headed by deputy chief minister Dinesh Sharma will look into the aspect of making educational curriculum online. Likewise, the committee headed by finance minister Suresh Khanna woul look into revenue and revival of MSME and industrial sectors. The panel headed by agriculture minister Surya Pratap Shahi will address the problems faced by farmers. "This is a season of agriculture and requires urgent attention, especially on the harvesting front," Yogi said. He said the committee will also explore the possibility of combining agricultural activities with MNREGS, as also taking forward the mechanism of procurement of foodgrain with a guarantee to ensure minimum support price to farmers. Govt puts focus on key sectorsThe committee headed by health minister Jai Pratap Singh will protect the medical personnel by providing them Personal Protective Equipment, besides training them to fight the Covid-19 pandemic.The committee headed by Jal Shakti minister Mahendra Singh will monitor drinking water supply. “As the temperature rise there would water crisis, especially in regions like Bundelkhand. That needs to be resolved,” the CM said. “PM Modi has emphasised on ‘Jaan bhi, jahaan bhi’. We not only need to stop the spread of coronavirus but also revive the normal activities as well.UP government would follow the guidelines of the Centre which is important for benefit of 23 crore people of the state,” Yogi concluded.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/uttar-pradesh-cm-forms-panels-to-revive-economy-after-lockdown/articleshow/75114034.cms||Pankaj Shah
April 13, 2020||Chennai||Coronavirus positive cases cross 1,000; Tamil Nadu to test all with flu-like symptom||CHENNAI: As Tamil Nadu's Covid-19 positive count crossed 1,000 on Sunday, the government decided to test anyone showing flu-like symptoms for the virus. If state laboratories are overloaded, samples will be sent to private labs to reduce turnaround time and the government would foot the bill, said health secretary Beela Rajesh. The toll in the state rose to 11 with a 45-year-old woman dying of the viral infection in Chennai, while 106 more people tested positive, taking the total to 1,075. The revised protocol will allow testing not just for those with contract/travel history, but for anyone with cough, fever or breathlessness. The state will also continue to screen patients admitted to hospitals with severe acute respiratory illness. The state now draws at least 2,000 samples every day for testing. It has so far tested 10,655 samples in 14 labs in government sector and nine in private sector, the health secretary said. "We have about 24,000 RNA-based PCR testing kits in stock and we will soon be getting 90,000 more kits. We are using them to do all the testing without waiting for the rapid testing kits to arrive," Beela Rajesh said. Among those who tested positive on Sunday, 16 had travel history and 90 had contact history, she said, without elaborating on the number of people from the Tablighi Jamaat cluster. Two patients were among the 49 people admitted to various hospitals with severe acute respiratory illness. Both had contact history, she said. The 45-year-old woman who died in Chennai was undergoing treatment at Omandurar Multispeciality Hospital in Chennai since April 5, three days after her 53-year-old husband, a participant of the three-day. Deceased 45-yr-old woman had severe chest congestionTablighi Jamaat conference in Delhi, tested positive. Their 21-year-old daughter, who tested negative, has been asked to stay in home quarantine. Doctors said the 45-year-old, who had no comorbidities, developed severe chest congestion and was put on ventilator at 6.30pm on Saturday. She died at 7.30pm. Six people have been discharged taking the total number of people discharged so far to 50, the health secretary said. The state has launched IVRS facility to help patients identify their risk. People can dial 949-991-2345 to find out if they are low or high risk.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/virus-positive-cases-cross-1000-tamil-nadu-to-test-all-with-flu-like-symptom/articleshow/75114045.cms||---
April 13, 2020||Mangaluru||Mangaluru teen smuggles friend home in suitcase||MANGALURU: With Covid-19 lockdown in force and his apartment complex banning the entry of outsiders, a 17-year-old boy smuggled a male friend of his allegedly in a large suitcase in the early hours of Sunday in Mangaluru. According to police, the PU student wanted to catch up with his classmate, and his repeated appeals for allowing his friend into the building were turned down by the apartment association. However, representatives of the association denied receiving a request from the boy. Sources told TOI the boy stepped out of the apartment on a scooter with a huge suitcase around 2am, Sunday. He picked up his friend, who lives in a neighbouring locality, and brought him to the apartment complex. He parked the scooter outside the building and got his friend to sit inside the suitcase and dragged it into the complex. Guards noticed something was fishyPolice said security guards noticed something unusual - a boy lugging a suitcase in the dead of the night minutes after going out on a scooter - and alerted the apartment association after daybreak. Around 8.30am, the boy and his friend stepped out for a stroll. After spotting the duo in the common area, the guards informed the association president. The boy reportedly admitted to smuggling in the boy between 2am and 3am. This was corroborated by CCTV footage that was examined later in the day. The building owners' association approached the police with a complaint. The parents of the boys, who were called to the police station, were shocked to learn about the incident. City police commissioner PS Harsha said a case has been registered at Mangaluru East police station and both the boys will be produced before the Juvenile Justice Board. Sources said the boy was alone in the house on Saturday night.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mangaluru/mangaluru-teen-smuggles-friend-home-in-suitcase/articleshow/75114016.cms||---
April 13, 2020||Bengaluru||Mangaluru teen smuggles friend home in suitcase||MANGALURU: With Covid-19 lockdown in force and his apartment complex banning the entry of outsiders, a 17-year-old boy smuggled a male friend of his allegedly in a large suitcase in the early hours of Sunday in Mangaluru. According to police, the PU student wanted to catch up with his classmate, and his repeated appeals for allowing his friend into the building were turned down by the apartment association. However, representatives of the association denied receiving a request from the boy. Sources told TOI the boy stepped out of the apartment on a scooter with a huge suitcase around 2am, Sunday. He picked up his friend, who lives in a neighbouring locality, and brought him to the apartment complex. He parked the scooter outside the building and got his friend to sit inside the suitcase and dragged it into the complex. Guards noticed something was fishyPolice said security guards noticed something unusual - a boy lugging a suitcase in the dead of the night minutes after going out on a scooter - and alerted the apartment association after daybreak. Around 8.30am, the boy and his friend stepped out for a stroll. After spotting the duo in the common area, the guards informed the association president. The boy reportedly admitted to smuggling in the boy between 2am and 3am. This was corroborated by CCTV footage that was examined later in the day. The building owners' association approached the police with a complaint. The parents of the boys, who were called to the police station, were shocked to learn about the incident. City police commissioner PS Harsha said a case has been registered at Mangaluru East police station and both the boys will be produced before the Juvenile Justice Board. Sources said the boy was alone in the house on Saturday night.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/mangaluru-teen-smuggles-friend-home-in-suitcase/articleshow/75115830.cms||---
April 13, 2020||Chennai||Workers go hungry as Tamil Nadu government's wage order remains dead letter||CHENNAI: It has been three weeks since the lockdown kicked in, but 45-year-old Saravanan of Sivakasi is yet to get his wages for the period though the government has urged all industries to pay wages to their employees for the lockdown period. Not just Saravanan, thousands of workers in the unorganised sector face an uncertain future as any extension of lockdown would mean losing wages and their already precarious livelihood. Saravanan and his wife Vasugi, who work at a firecracker unit in Sivakasi, together earn 3,500 per week. It covers their basic expenses for the week. The unprecedented lockdown, however, has brought this routine to a standstill. "We are fighting to stave off starvation with ration rice. It is of poor quality; we have no choice," said Saravanan of Viswanathapuram, father of two children, aged 16 and 13. Saravanan, however, reckons there are other villagers who are even more worse-off. Nearly 93% of TN workforce, mostly contract labourers, face a similar plight, say trade unions. Govt dole of ₹1,000 and groceries not sufficient to sustain lockdownSiva, a mason, of Vellore district’s Sumaithangi village echoed a similar plight. For daily wage workers like him, the lockdown was an unexpected blow as it deprived him and his family of ₹500 that they earned in a day. “It is like being caught in a quicksand. We don’t know when we will sink and we are scared of the spiralling cost of essential commodities,” he said. The lockdown might be a measure to prevent and control Covid-19. But in the process, many like Saravanan and Siva, dependent on daily or weekly wages – have not only lost their livelihood but are also struggling to make ends meet. While the government announced a dole of ₹1,000 and a hamper of 15kg of rice, 1kg dal and1kg oil, the ground reality is grim. The state has not taken efforts to ensure the employer pay wages for their workforce for the lockdown period. Chairman of CREDAI’s Tamil Nadu unit S Sridharan said they have been providing food, accommodation and medical care to workers. The contractors, he said, should take care of the workers’ wages during the lockdown. Nearly 93% of the workforce in the state is made up of contract labourers, mostly guest workers. Though the lockdown entered the third week, authorities have not taken firm measures to help them get a decent amount of money to lead a dignified life during the lockdown period, said trade union members. “The government’s aid of ₹1,000 is not sufficient. It should be enhanced to ₹5,000 for all registered and unregistered members of the welfare boards,” said CITU’s state acting general secretary S Kannan. The principal employers in the Tirupur textile cluster, Asia’s biggest textile hub Coimbatore and neighbouring Erode district have not paid their contractor workers. They are asking the government to pay through ESI and PF money. “The employers have categorically told district collector that they will not pay up. If the government plays a waiting game, it will only harm the daily wage workers,” said Tirupur CITU general secretary G Sampath.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/workers-go-hungry-as-tamil-nadu-governments-wage-order-remains-dead-letter/articleshow/75114057.cms||Shanmughasundaram J
April 13, 2020||Bengaluru||Bengaluru: Man sells liquor through Instagram, held||BENGALURU: Excise officials masquerading as tipplers on Saturday nabbed a man who allegedly sold alcohol via Instagram and other social media platforms. He collected thrice the MRP through digital payments and delivered the contraband clandestinely to customers. Kiran, 28, from Vijayanagar, allegedly left behind liquor for his customers at desolate spots and sent locations on Google Maps to inform them where to collect the same from. He was picked up when he was delivering liquor to a team led by excise deputy commissioner (west zone) BR Hiremath and inspector Vanajakshi, which had placed orders with him. According to sources, Kiran obtained liquor from the defence canteen with help from a retired employee and exploited the situation created by the lockdown to sell expensive liquor at higher rates. He would advertise on Instagram and mention his contact number for those keen on making a purchase.  Kiran would neith er deliver the liquor directly to the customer nor receive money from them in person. When potential customers approached him, he would ask them to make online payment through PhonePe or Google Pay. Once the payment was made, he would ask the customer to come to a place to pick up the liquor. He would watch the customer arriving at the designated spot from a distance and after confirming that there was no trap being laid, he would provide the location of the place where the liquor was hidden. He would hang around and confirm the bottle was picked up by the right person. Kiran's suspicious movement on a scooter in and around Vijayanagar drew the attention of excise and police officials. Excise officials tailed him for many days and finally in the guise of north Indian customers desperate to buy liquor placed the order and made digital payment for the same. Kiran was picked up by plainclothesmen when he came to the spot to deliver alcohol.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/bengaluru-man-sells-liquor-through-instagram-held/articleshow/75114060.cms||---
April 13, 2020||World||UAE to take action against nations refusing repatriation of migrant workers: Report||RIYADH/DUBAI: The UAE plans to impose "strict restrictions" on countries reluctant to take back their nationals working in the Gulf country in the wake of the coronavirus outbreak and restructure its cooperation and labour relations with them, a state-run media report said on Sunday. Indian expatriate community of nearly 33 lakh is the largest ethnic community in UAE constituting roughly about 30% of the country's population. Among the Indian states, Kerala is the most represented followed by Tamil Nadu and Andhra Pradesh. The options being considered by the ministry of human resources and emiratisation include "imposing strict future restrictions on the recruitment" of workers from these countries and activating the "quota" system in recruitment operations, state-run WAM news agency reported, citing an official. It said the options also include suspending memoranda of understanding signed between the ministry and concerned authorities in these countries. Citing the unidentified official, it said these options are being considered after many countries did not respond to requests by their nationals to return home following the outbreak. The official said all countries of for eign workers in the UAE should be responsible for their nationals wishing to return to their countries as part of an initiative launched recently by the ministry. Earlier this month, the ministry launched an initiative to enable residents who work n the UAE and wish to return to their countries to do so during the period of precautionary measures undertaken to contain the spread of the virus. More on Covid-19Coronavirus pandemic: Complete Coverage21-day lockdown: What will stay open and what won'tHow to quarantine yourself at homeTrust the newspaper for your daily verified news||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//world/middle-east/uae-to-take-action-against-nations-refusing-repatriation-of-migrant-workers-report/articleshow/75114063.cms||---
April 13, 2020||Kolkata||10 blocks in Salt Lake, New Town mkts under spl watch||Kolkata: With two wards — 32 and 41 — in Salt Lake under Bidhannagar Municipal Corporation area identified by the state government as Covid-19 sensitive areas, the civic authorities and Bidhannagar police have intensified the lockdown measures with special focus on these zones.Though no specific area has been identified as Covid-19 sensitive in the neighbouring New Town, the New Town Kolkata Development Authority (NKDA) has also decided to intensify sanitization drive and make sure lockdown is strictly followed, particularly in the market areas.In the two Salt Lake wards, which consists of ED, EE, DL, AA, AB, AC, AD, BB, BC and BD blocks, the civic body and police have strictly started enforcing lockdown by monitoring the market places. Mass sanitization drives inside the blocks and miking on the road urging people to stay indoors are also being taken up. In New Town, NKDA is planning to have more intensive sanitization in all the blocks and apartment complexes. The authorities are also concentrating on the markets with special focus on controlled entry, handwashing and maintaining social distancing. “While there has been no change in the general lockdown procedure, we have intensified police patrolling in some pockets of Salt Lake. We are keeping a close watch on people’s movement on road with the help of drones and patrol teams. Wherever a congregation of people is spotted without any real emergency, we are taking necessary actions,” said a senior officer of Bidhannagar Commissionerate.“Our officials have been posted in the market areas and we are trying to keep the market functional only for three to four hours in the morning. We have done adequate miking in the area since Saturday evening and from Monday, our officials will be posted at the market gates to ensure they open and close within the stipulated timeframe,” said the official.He, however, clarified that though some places had been cordoned off with guardrails on Saturday evening, most of them were removed by Sunday. But, adequate policemen have been posted on the road to ensure the lockdown protocol is strictly adhered to.Bidhannagar mayor Krishna Chakraborty said sanitization drive was being increased in the areas from where Covid-19 cases have been reported.“We are tensed as our block has been identified as a sensitive area,” said Kawshik Dutta, a resident of BD Block who lives with his elderly mother.“The police had started putting up guardrails in our locality from Saturday but they were later removed. I personally feel this could have been useful. We are tensed over the overall situation and the lockdown rules must be followed,” said Sandip Sarkar, a resident of AD Block.Ward 32 councillor Sudhir Saha and councillor of Ward 41 Anindya Chatterjee said sanitization had been intensified in all block localities.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/10-blocks-in-salt-lake-new-town-mkts-under-spl-watch/articleshow/75113163.cms||Suman Chakraborti
April 13, 2020||Kolkata||Liquor may cost more as West Bengal government plans additional tax||KOLKATA: It’s going to be a mixed bag for tipplers. The state liquor wholesale arm Bevco has already commenced operation last week but tipplers may have to pay a higher price for their favourite booze when off-shops open its door to customers. The state government is imposing an additional tax on liquor, both on IMFL and beer. It has been learnt that the additional revenue mopped up through this will be used to battle Covid-19. “No central fund is coming. GST return has been deferred and there is no income from stamp duty as it is closed. Petroleum, another major source of state revenue, is at an all-time low because there’s hardly any demand for that. There is hardly any other option. Tipplers for now will share some of the state burden,” sources in the government said. According to sources, there will be pasting of stickers on all the stocks in Bevco and the stocks in the warehouses of manufacturers with new MRP. “The process will start soon. It (stickers) is now being printed in a public sector printing company. We will buy stickers from government for the stocks in our warehouses. Bevco will do the same for the stocks in its warehouses,” added a source in a liquor company. It has been learnt that remaining stocks with retailers may not be part of the new tax structure. However, retailers are not too happy about the development. But, some of them admitted that there’s hardly any other option. A leading retailer said, “We can understand the compulsion but it will further put pressure on our thin margin. We hardly have 5%-6% margin in liquor. As per the new tax structure, we have to invest more for a case of IMFL and beer. With the increase in investment more money will be blocked, so our effective return will go down. If it continues for long then a lot of retailers will face severe difficulties. The price increase will also impact demand,” he pointed out. However, an Excise official argued that liquor is being sold even at 100% premium in black market for last two weeks, so considering the situation, a 20%-30% hike may not be a big deal. “This money can bring cheers to many who are not even getting two meals now,” a state government official added. It may be recalled that Bevco workers are already engaged in offloading trucks queued in different warehouses. Bevco has 22 warehouses in the state in different locations. According to Excise officials, following the lockdown from March 23 afternoon, trucks of manufacturers got stuck in warehouses. It was learnt that Bevco warehouses have stocks for 6-7 days, taken together IMFL and beer. “There is no problem of stocks in warehouses now,” added a source. Incidentally, Bengal is a market of 14.1 million (1.4 crore) cases of hard IMFL per year that includes whiskey, ram, vodka etc and 8 million (80 lakh cases) of beer per year.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/liquor-may-cost-more-as-govt-plans-addl-tax/articleshow/75113183.cms||Udit Prasanna Mukherji
April 13, 2020||Chennai||Why Tamil Nadu has to do more with less||With extension of the lockdown imminent, the state health authorities are drawing up plans to make best use of the time. “We know cases may go up after the lockdown is lifted, but the focus now is to ensure we reduce the peak. We also need to prepare ourselves and the state,” said health secretary Beela Rajesh. One of the first drawbacks for the state is the lack of rapid testing kits. But state health department on Sunday announced that it has decided to use the existing PCR kits for aggressive screening. “The results may be delayed. Instead of getting it in half an hour, it may take half a day,” said director of public health Dr K Kolandaswamy. “It is admittedly one of our biggest weakness, but we decided there is no point in waiting for the kits. We have to use every minute in this period resourcefully. We will use PCR kits for mass screening until rapid kits arrive,” he said. The Chinese exporter, meanwhile, has told the state health officials that the kits will arrive on Tuesday. The biggest challenge for public health officials is to ensure the contacts of 1,075 people who tested positive so far aren’t infected. “In the last few days, the number of contacts turning positive is higher than primary contacts. This shows we have to do early testing, isolation and make home quarantine more stringent. We have to ensure safety of vulnerable population inside their homes too,” he said. A team of officials from his department has also been working on a series of rules that have to be followed by education institutions, corporates, factories and entertainment zones so they can be ready for the exit after 15 days. For instance, once the lockdown period is over, corporates and factories must have washbasins at the entrance with enough soap and running water. They should install facilities to check body temperatures and staff who have flu-like symptoms must not be allowed on campus, he said. “Social distancing, wearing masks, ensuring hand hygiene and protecting the vulnerable will be things we may have to follow long after the lockdown,” he said. Simultaneously, the state has initiated epidemiological, clinical, pharmacological and lab-based research on Covid-19. While the National Institute of Epidemiology is tracking the clusters to find how the disease spreads, group of virologists are working on studying the viral strain and its virulence. “We are collaborating with the IIT-M, TN Dr MGR Medical University and Anna University for various research. Besides giving us clues on how to handle the pandemic, they will also give us exit strategies,” she said. For instance, the department of community medicine wanted to do sero-prevalence testing to see if the infection has spread into the community. The aim of the research is to give the government evidence-based research for exit strategy at the end of April. Other research papers include the impact of comorbidities, impact of the disease on heart and renal function, and drug therapy.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/why-tamil-nadu-has-to-do-more-with-less/articleshow/75114082.cms||---
April 13, 2020||Chennai||Tamil Nadu hopes extended lockdown will have some relaxations||With several states preferring an extension, the country-wide lockdown is likely to be extended up to April 30. But Tamil Nadu is hoping that the extension will come with relaxations, with permission for certain industrial segments to resume operations under strict norms. "The task force and other teams came up with suggestions. These included permitting certain industrial segments, especially manufacturing, to resume operations. The suggestions are under consideration of the state," a source told TOI. "We are waiting for the Centre's directive. It is expected to come Monday or Tuesday. Our expectations are that the lockdown will be extended, but with some relaxations to permit resumption of operations in certain categories of industries," an official said. "Whatever decisions Centre takes, physical distancing and wearing masks are going to be the new norm worldwide for at least the next six months," the official said. According to sources, suggestions have been put forth to the government by both construction companies as well as some manufacturing units, which not only house their guest workers, but also provide them with food. "They can be permitted to work in our sites, especially since they already placed under a certain kind of quarantine regime and will be transported in company vehicles," a source said. Accommodating the large number of guest workers is creating fissures among local populace in certain places, including Chennai. “There was even a suggestion from the task force to seek relaxations for two days and request the Centre for special trains to permit those guest workers, keen to return to their home state, to travel. But implementing such a suggestion not only comes with a set of problems and the Centre may not approve it,” a source said. “Genuinely a humanitarian problem is there. Also, the government is aware of the issues. This is a public health issue. There is a medical committee, there is WHO and Government of India’s public health guidelines. We cannot independently implement any idea of our own,” said a senior official. Tamil Nadu is also gearing up to classify various districts into red, yellow and green categories, based on which relaxations, if part of Centre’s directive, can be implemented. About 17 districts including Chennai and Coimbatore are to be categorized red zones, with another 17 to be classified as orange and yellow and the rest as green. Official sources, however, did not confirm such categorization of districts.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/tamil-nadu-hopes-extended-lockdown-will-have-some-relaxations/articleshow/75114088.cms||D Govardan
April 13, 2020||Kolkata||Kolkata: Easter prayer focuses on deliverance from coronavirus||KOLKATA: Deliverance from evil, oppression, illness, hopelessness and even death has always been the focus of the Resurrection of Jesus on Easter. But this year, it has become even more relevant because of the pandemic. This was the theme of Easter Sunday’s message from both Bishop Paritosh Canning (head of the CNI church) and Archbishop Thomas D Souza (Roman Catholic Church). Both the masses were conducted online since churches are closed. Christians belonging to parishes under the diocese and archdiocese watched the masses live on YouTube and prayed along fervently, receiving the spiritual communion, the holiest part of the Easter prayer. This year also saw archbishop D Souza leading his parishioners once more for a noon prayer, specially called by Cardinal Oswald Gracias, who heads the country’s Catholic Christians, to pray unitedly for deliverance against Covid-19. With the story of Resurrection on his lips, Bishop Canning read the sermon in both English and Bengali and explained why there was nothing to fear, since the Lord had risen from his tomb and the best was about to happen. “God is never in his slumber. He is watching over our trouble and suffering and will do the needful in time,” Bishop Canning advised with conviction. At his trilingual service, Archbishop D Souza said the lockdown has now been extended till April 30 and we will now be required to stay indoors longer. “We are gradually getting used to this... we humans have this quality of adaptability. I advise all to stay indoors and utilize the time to welcome Jesus and take a journey within to cleanse ourselves,” he said. Online masses will continue from Archbishop House on Sundays. Since early morning, Christians were seen exchanging good wishes through e-cards on the social media. They spoke of hope and the awakening of new life as is the Easter custom. The community missed Easter feasts, get-together and buying of goodies like Easter buns, cakes and eggs.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/easter-prayer-focuses-on-deliverance-from-corona/articleshow/75113212.cms||Jhimli Mukherjee Pandey
April 13, 2020||Chennai||Three core Chennai zones hot spots for symptoms||Three zones in the heart of Chennai have reported 48% of the city’s cases with Covid-19-like symptoms, the door-todoor screening by Greater Chennai Corporation (GCC) has revealed. These are Anna Nagar (zone 8), Teynampet (zone 9) and Kodambakkam (zone 10). Data shows that Anna Nagar has registered 547 cases, Teynampet 493 cases, and Kodambakkam 405 cases. GCC doctors have cured 459, 375 and 274 cases by following up, the data shows. The three zones also have 31% of all Covid-19 positive cases in the city. Royapuram (zone 5) in North Chennai continues to top the city’s charts as far as positive cases are concerned. The number of fever and other symptom cases in the zone was 328 as of Saturday. Senior GCC officials said 100 cases of fever coming up while surveying one lakh households was quite normal. “If there is anything amiss, we shall alert our medical team immediately and take action,” an official said. As on Saturday, GCC has cumulatively verified 1.05 crore households in the city. “We have achieved 93% penetration in the city now,” GCC commissioner G Prakash said. As many as 3,036 people with all types of symptoms have been picked up and will be under the radar while 2,261 have been ruled out and 775 are under follow up, he said. Meanwhile, collecting samples of people in containment zones began in Teynampet zone on Sunday. The city has 23 walk-in Thiruvottiyur sample ki- 04 osks (Wisk) Tondiarpet and people 17 who may have been Royapuram in contact 63 with Cov- Teynampet id-19 posi- 14 tive patients or stay near- Adyar by will be 06 called for giving samples. On Sunday, Ra- Shollinganallur jendra Kumar IAS, 02 who is part of the zonal special task team for Chennai, conducted a meeting at Ripon Buildings with Prakash and other officials. Abash Kumar IPS is also part of the zonal special task team. The officials later inaugurated disinfectant spray vehicles, worth 35 lakh, donated by Renault Nissan as part of its CSR activity. Prakash in the evening reiterated the government’s order banning distribution of cooked food, dry ration or other relief material by any political party, NGO or associations in the civic body’s limits. The material should be directly handed over to the zonal officers in bulk and distribution would be done by GCC machinery in a safe manner, he said. Flying squads have been instructed to ensure this is followed strictly.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/three-core-chennai-zones-hot-spots-for-symptoms/articleshow/75114099.cms||---
April 13, 2020||Kolkata||West Bengal lockdown: Sweet sellers stare at 95% loss||KOLKATA: Poila Baishakh is one of the brightest spots in a mishti-seller’s calendar, but this year the festival is set to leave a bitter aftertaste. With business establishments and residents deciding to cancel their Poila Baishakh celebrations, mishti-sellers and ancillary industries like milk, chhana and kheer are staring at a loss of over “95%” during the festival next week. The run up to the festival is one of the busiest periods. The production teams work round the clock to meet the demand but this year, the sweet-shop owners have not even procured the ingredients. “We are not anticipating any major sales as big business houses have cancelled their Poila Baishakh celebrations. Jewellers, those in paper and garments business and other commercial establishments, place orders worth crores every Poila Baisakh but this year none of them have even enquired. There will hardly be a sale worth 5%,” said Jagannath Ghosh, secretary of the Paschimbanga Mistanna Byabasayee Samity. There are close to 7,000 sweet shops in the city and its vicinity. Most sweetmeat shops, however, remained shut since the lockdown on March 22. Later, chief minister Mamata Banerjee allowed some to operate from noon to 4pm despite the lockdown. Sweetshop owners, however, said they be allowed to operate from 8am to 12pm. “Due to the lockdown and the heat, very few people have been stepping out in the afternoon to buy sweets,” said Ghosh. The sweetshop owners do not intend to apply for review of timings on Poila Baishakh.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/sweet-sellers-stare-at-95-loss/articleshow/75113226.cms||Zeeshan Javed
April 13, 2020||Chennai||Adyar Cancer Institute sees surge in patients in need of care, seeks funds||CHENNAI: After several private cancer care centres across Tamil Nadu closed due to the Covid-19 lockdown, a number of patients have turned to the Cancer Institute, Adyar, over the past week. The ace institute is having a tough time keeping up with the demand and has sought help from the public to meet the cost of purchasing anti-cancer drugs, paying around 1,000 employees and maintenance work. Chairman of the 66-year-old institute, V Shantha said, "The pandemic is taken care of by the government as it should be. With the government also facing similar problems, only the public has to help us since we, as a charitable institution, do a lot of free treatment". Drugs alone would cost up to 2 crore every month. The institute usually receives 40- 50 lakh as donations every quarter but that might go down as the public may now choose to contribute to the Prime Minister or the chief minister's relief funds. While most hospitals have delayed cancer treatment and have asked patients to return after April, the Cancer Institute has seen an increase in outstation patients seeking chemotherapy as the treatment was unavailable closer to their homes. "We are treating our patients with great difficulty. We are not overloaded but we have to spend from our pockets if patients increase by the month-end," Dr Shantha said. At present, around 25% beds are occupied and chemotherapy is done if there is undue morbidity and patients are sick. The institute is also facing two other challenges. First, transportation of staff and patients in the absence of public transport. So food and accommodation are provided to a section of staff to ensure that patients are taken care of. The other issue is the fear of infection among medical staff. "Since families of some employees are not allowing them to commute, routine operations are affected in most hospitals. So doctors are postponing surgeries and managing with chemos," said oncologist Dr S G Balamurugan, state secretary of Association of Surgeons of India.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/adyar-cancer-institute-sees-surge-in-patients-in-need-of-care-seeks-funds/articleshow/75114103.cms||Ram Sundaram
April 13, 2020||Gurgaon||They didn’t join the exodus. But the workers who stayed are struggling||Gurgaon: When fellow workers started leaving the city they earned their livelihoods in to make it home — toppling barricades, crossing sealed border, hanging onto buses so full they could tip over — they watched in anxiety. As migrant workers, they had the same concerns but staying put seemed like the safer choice. But now, with expenses piling up and money drying up, they are not so sure. “It seemed easier. The government said we should not move and risk spreading the infection. It also promised we would keep getting our salaries,” said a 30-year-old worker at a manufacturing unit in Sector 7, IMT Manesar. It didn’t quite turn out that way. “I have to pay Rs 1,500 as rent and another Rs 1,500 for dry ration I bought on credit when the lockdown began. But the company is not paying me anything.” The worker from Uttar Pradesh is among 50 others at the manufacturing unit — all migrants from other states — who, he said, have not been paid since the lockdown began. “I called up the manager. He asked for my bank information so he can send Rs 2,000-2,500 for me to meet my expenses. For now, that helps.” It was a kind gesture but not a solution. As migrant workers, they have no families to fall back on. It is their families, far away, who depend on them. “My wife calls every day with one question — if I can send home some money for our daughter. What am I supposed to do?” It’s not much better for those being paid. “On paper, we are being paid. But what they have actually done is deduct our salaries for all the days the company was shut because of the lockdown and only paid the overtime,” said a 33-year-old from Bihar working at a unit that manufactures plastic parts for a car company. At a garment export house in Gurgaon, a contractual worker said, all payments were on an hourly basis. “So tweaking that is easy. We are paid very little anyway — small amounts here and there — but are not being given even that now,” he added. But he still has bills to pay. He just does’t know how he’ll do that. “They are being harassed and not being paid, despite government claims. It has to step in,” said Anil Pawal, senior deputy secretary of the Haryana unit of All India Trade Union Congress. The Gurgaon unit of the labour body wrote to the deputy commissioner on Sunday, seeking an intervention. For now, labour unions suggested, a volunteer group can be formed that work together with the district administration to address these gaps. “Now we wait for what they have to say.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/gurgaon/they-didnt-join-the-exodus-but-the-workers-who-stayed-are-struggling/articleshow/75113241.cms||Shubhra Pant
April 13, 2020||Bengaluru||At 2.6%, Karnataka’s Covid-19 fatality rate lower than national average||BENGALURU: Of the 232 Covid-19 patients reported in Karnataka so far, six have died, translating into a case fatality rate (CFR) of 2.6%, against the national figure of 3.5%. While any death is one casualty too much, the figure has come as a relief given the virulence of the disease in states like Maharashtra, where the CFR is 7.1%. CFR is the percentage of deaths among patients who have tested positive. Alongside CFR, the state’s CGR (compound growth rate) of coronavirus infections is also much less than the national figure — 6.05% against 12.9% in India — indicating the spread is relatively manageable so far. Karnataka had reported India’s first Covid-19 fatality, with the death of a 76-yearold man from Kalaburagi on March 10, sending alarm bells ringing, but the trajectory has changed since. Three of the six patients who died in Karnataka were suffering from Severe Acute Respiratory Illness (SARI) — increasingly emerging as a high-risk group — and two were late referrals. One of the victims — a 75-year-old man from Bagalkot — was a SARI patient who was not detected by the alternative therapist he first went to. A 57-year-old man from Kalaburagi died after a delayed referral from a private hospital. The youngest Covid-19 patient to die in the state is the 57-year-old while the oldest is an 80-year-old woman from Gadag. A senior doctor in Bengaluru said the state has managed so far to protect elderly patients, who are particularly vulnerable, with efficient clinical management on a case-by-case basis. “In fact, we have had success stories among senior citizens. A 67-year-old woman with chronic kidney disorder is recovering well and getting discharged. Another 62-yearold woman who was on ventilaor for more than a week has stabilised and been shifted to the ward. A 78-year-old man who has returned from abroad is being treated in a private hospital and is doing well. The stage at which the case is diagnosed, the underlying health condition of the patient and clinical management of the case each play a vital role in curbing mortality rate,” the doctor said. “Early admission of the cases and preparedness in management of critical cases is the way to curb deaths,” said Dr Giridhar Babu, professor and head of lifecourse epidemiology in Public Health Foundation of India, Bengaluru. “For which, testing more cases among the contacts of the positive patients, testing all SARI cases and all cases of influenza-like illnesses across the state is necessary.” The Covid-19 death audit committee is, in fact, getting into the details of each of the deaths to understand the underlying factors. “We call each of these deaths a Covid-19 fatality as the patient was found to be infected with the virus at the time of death. But the viral infection need not necessarily have been the cause of death. We need to look into the comorbidities (concurrent health conditions) that may have triggered the virus infection,” said Dr Prakash Kumar, joint director of communicable diseases in the health and family welfare department. By protocol, deaths due to communicable diseases are closely investigated. For instance, Prakash said, the first death occurred on the Karnataka-Telangana border when the Kalaburagi man was being brought back home from a Hyderabad hosptial. “However, we have not got his medical records and details of what led to his mortality as the death occurred outside Karnataka and he was last treated at a Hyderabad hospital,” he said. “All the deaths have to be investigated further.” No postmortem was done in any of the cases and the final rites were conducted as per WHO guidelines.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/at-2-6-karnatakas-covid-19-fatality-rate-lower-than-national-average/articleshow/75114100.cms||Sunitha Rao R
April 13, 2020||Gurgaon||Haryana to start random tests to check for community transmission||Gurgaon: The Haryana government will soon start random tests as part of a survey to figure out if there is any case of community transmission in the state. The move comes a day after chief minister Manohar Lal Khattar unveiled a graded plan to emerge out of the lockdown. According to the plan, officials of PGIMS, Rohtak, will collect samples from those who have been showing flu-like symptoms but do not have any recent history of foreign travel. The survey will be conducted in districts where hotspots have been identified. The authorities, however, are waiting for rapid kits to arrive for starting the survey. A similar approach to conduct random tests has been adopted in the NCR cities of Noida and Ghaziabad. The administrations there have increased the number of samples they are collecting every day. In Haryana, the four districts where the survey will be conducted are Gurgaon, Faridabad, Palwal and Nuh. “We will collect samples in areas that have been identified as containment zones. For now, we will start with Gurgaon, Faridabad, Palwal, and Nuh,” said Dhruv Chaudhary, the nodal officer for Covid-19 response in Haryana and head of the department of pulmonary and critical care at PGIMS, Rohtak. The novel coronavirus is usually transmitted through four main stages. Stage 1 includes people who have travelled abroad and picked up the infection from a foreign country. Stage 2 covers those who have tested positive after coming in contact with a person with travel history. Stage 3 is when people test positive without having any travel history or coming in contact with travellers or infected patients. This stage is known as community transmission and cases under this category are expected to multiply. India has repeatedly denied it has entered stage 3. Stage 4 is that of local epidemic, where several clusters of the affected population are found with no known source. “We do not want to miss out on any case that can lead to an epidemic. We will collect random samples of people with acute respiratory illness and from places where positive cases have been reported. We will focus on people suffering from breathlessness and have been admitted to hospitals with unknown infection,” said Chaudhary. Starting the survey, however, seems easier said than done. Officials at the Rohtak hospital said they were waiting for rapid diagnostic kits to arrive. These kits can help produce the test results in 6 hours, against the 48 hours that are required now by hospitals with the current equipment. Rajeev Arora, additional chief secretary of the health department, said they had already placed orders for 1 lakh such kits. “We are conducting a door-to-door survey at present and our focus in on Gurgaon, Faridabad, Palwal and Nuh. Haryana has a total of 239 containment zones, where we have been conducting surveys even in the absence of rapid test kits. We have already placed orders for these kits and they will definitely speed up the testing process,” he added. According to Arora, members of the Indian Council of Medical Research will help PGIMS officials in collecting the random samples.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/gurgaon/haryana-to-start-random-tests-to-check-for-community-transmission/articleshow/75113252.cms||Ipsita Pati
April 13, 2020||Gurgaon||Haryana: Nuh villages find essential supplies out of their reach||GURUGRAM: Even though the district administration in Nuh (Mewat) closed all grocery shops after a spike in the number of Covid-19 cases and promised uninterrupted home delivery of essentials, villagers in Mewat, Firozepur-Jhirka, Pingaon, Taudu and Punhana have complained that the service is erratic and has caused panic. On Friday, the district administration announced that barring 45 designated shops that have been empanelled to deliver essential items to the homes of the residents, all grocery shops will remain closed to discourage mass gathering and restrict mobility in the area. The numbers of these service providers were made public via local newspapers and radio channels. But many residents, who are running out of groceries, have said that for the past two days, designated shopkeepers are not taking phone calls or citing lack of supplies, making access to essential items difficult, especially in the hinterlands. “In Nagina block, several people called the numbers that were provided by the administration. Most of the numbers were either switched off or not functional. The access to ration and daily needs has been severely affected. Villages in deep rural pockets are most affected,” argued Sabir Qasim Ahmed, a resident of Punhana. “Even if a shopkeeper picks up a phone, they refuse to deliver the ration. Some say the order value is too low for them to travel that far or that they are short on supplies. Overall, it is clear that there was no proper planning done before taking such abrupt decisions,” said Ahmed. In towns, while there are sporadic supplies of rations, availability of vegetables has become a problem. “In villages, people are close to farm lands and so, vegetable supply is good and few also have stocks of basics like wheat. But they are struggling with access to pulses and vegetable oils. While in towns, supply of ration is sporadic and access to vegetable is becoming more and more difficult,” noted Farhan, a resident of Ghasera village. Moreover, the prices of items have gone higher despite the administration releasing a list of fixed prices for items. For instance, a kilo of sugar is being sold at Rs 15 more than the usual price. Administration, on its part, claims it is regularly keeping tabs on essential requirements and that the supply chain remains fluid. “We also have a control room where people can complain if they are facing any problem is accessing groceries and essentials. A list of designated service providers has been made public and they are continuing with the services. If there’s an issue residents are advised to alert the officials and quick action will be taken. We are committed to ensure that the containment plan doesn’t impact access to essentials,” said a senior government official.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/gurgaon/nuh-villages-find-essential-supplies-out-of-their-reach/articleshow/75113272.cms||Siddharth Tiwari
April 13, 2020||Pune||Three more persons with severe comorbidity succumb to coronavirus, toll touches 30||PUNE: Three persons, including a Pimpri Chinchwad resident, succumbed to complications associated with novel coronavirus (Covid-19) on Sunday, health officials confirmed. The two others were residents of Somwar Peth and Tadiwala road in Pune. The officials said all the three persons had other underlying medical conditions, such as hypertension, diabetes and obesity. The three deaths have pushed the Covid-19 death toll in the Pune Metropolitan Region to 30 so far. Besides, 21 fresh cases of the infection were recorded in the region on Sunday. With this, the total number of positive cases has gone up to 284. Barring two positive cases registered in Pimpri Chinchwad, the remaining 19 were recorded within the limits of the Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC). Officials said most of them were close contacts of the persons who had earlier tested positive for Covid-19. Most of them are residents of Guruwar Peth, Bhavani Peth, Somwar Peth, Tadiwala Road and Kondhwa. “The three patients succumbing to Covid-19-associated complications had various comorbidity. None of them had any history of recent foreign travel or proximity to known infected persons or their close contacts,” district health officer Bhagwan Pawar said. A 58-year-old woman, from Lumbininagar on Tadiwala Road was admitted to the civic-body run Naidu hospital with breathlessness on April 9. As she required tertiary care treatment, she was referred to the Sassoon General Hospital the same day. Her condition kept on worsening, as she had developed acute respiratory distress syndrome (ARDS). She succumbed to the associated complication on Sunday. “She was morbidly obese and had been suffering from sleep apnea. She was also a known patient of diabetes and hypertension,” said a doctor from the hospital. Another victim, a 56-yearold woman from Somwar Peth, was admitted to Sassoon hospital on April 5 after she started experiencing difficulty in breathing. Despite being put on aggressive treatment, her respiratory distress kept on worsening. She succumbed to multi-organ dysfunctions on Sunday. “She was also a known patient of hypertension and diabetes,” the doctor said. A 42-year-old security guard, who lived in Pimpri Chinchwad, fell victim to the Covid-19 associated complications at YCM hospital in Pimpri on Sunday. This was the first Covid-19 casualty recorded in Pimpri Chinchwad. “He was admitted to YCM hospital on April 9. He also had underlying medical conditions,” said Santosh Patil, additional commissioner, Pimpri Chinchwad Municipal Corporation (PCMC). Pimpri Chinchwad municipal commissioner Shravan Hardikar said, “The man had convulsions following which he was admitted to YCM hospital. He was also a patient of liver cirrhosis. He was on ventilator support for three days.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/three-more-persons-with-severe-comorbidity-succumb-to-coronavirus-toll-touches-30/articleshow/75114121.cms||Siddharth Gaikwad
April 13, 2020||Pune||In-charge tests positive, 30 nurses of private hospital placed in quarantine||PUNE: Thirty nurses working with a private hospital in Pune were quarantined after the incharge-nurse tested positive for the Covid-19 on Saturday night. The nurse had returned to work two days ago after a week's casual leave. She is a resident of Kasarwadi. Her family members and other close contacts are also being traced and quarantined. This is the second case in Pune wherein a health worker was found infected with the contagion. A junior doctor at private hospital in Rasta Peth had also tested positive for Covid-19 a week ago. Both had no history of recent foreign travel or any proximity to known infected persons or their close contacts. "Our in-charge nurse had a mild cold and cough, hence we tested her as a precautionary measure. Her throat swab tested positive for Covid-19. We have put 30 nurses, who she had come in contact with, under observation at our nursing hostel," the hospital's medical director said. Her work profile is more of administrative work. She is not involved in patient-care. Her main job is to oversee work of other nurses. She ensures duties,leaves and shifts of other nurses working under her. Again, she is with general ward of the hospital and not involved in the isolation ward where we treat Covid-19 positive patients, he added. The hospital authorities also tested six other patients she had briefly come in contact with. "All tested negative . We will also test our quarantined nurses," he said. The nurse is currently being treated at the hospital's isolation ward. "She only had mild symptoms. She is on full diet and recovering," he said. The medical director said they we keeping an eye on every staff who has flu-like symptoms.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/in-charge-tests-positive-30-nurses-of-private-hospital-placed-in-quarantine/articleshow/75114128.cms||Umesh Isalkar
April 13, 2020||Pune||Locked in, lonely senior citizens in Kothrud struggle for daily food & medicines||PUNE: The lockdown to fight Covid-19 has come up as a major worry for Suhas Bhome, a senior citizen living a lonely life in Kothrud. At 70, Bhome has to run from pillar to post for finding cooked food. No children, non-availability of domestic helps, closed eateries and lack of resources are making it difficult for him to manage the meals. Bhome is one among many such senior citizens facing the same problem during the lockdown period in a city that has over the years earned the sobriquet of pensioners' paradise. Social organisations and local groups are the lone lifeline for the likes of Bhome. "Since going out should be avoided in these days, one has to make sure that enough material is stored in the house. But storage of food is a problem for me due to the lack of equipment like a refrigerator. Being a senior citizen, I have limited options of eating outside. I need to go outto buy vegetables and other stuff, which have be used that day itself," said Bhome. Bhome, who suffered an injury to his right hand, said he has no option to somehow manage the things during the lockdown. He said asking relatives or other well-wishers to come everyday for solving the issue was also not possible due to limitations of travels. Medha Kulkarni, a former BJP MLA from the Kothrud area, said they have formed a federation of senior citizens' clubs. Members of these clubs are in touch with each other to resolve the issues of these senior citizens. "The arrangement of food and other basic needs is being done. It has been made on the demand and supply basis. We get the details about the requirements and food is arranged," she said. According to the senior citizens' federation, the two major concerns are food and medicines. "Our volunteers, in association with some youngsters, are reaching out to these people for all help. Those who are living alone in their homes need special attention. Nearly 7,000 tiffins have been made available," said Shriram Bedkihal, a member of the federation for the senior citizens clubs. As per the federation, the city has around 200 such clubs with each having a membership of 300-500 people. The population of senior citizens in the city, including those who are not members any club, is around 3 lakh. "The senior citizens have restrictions on venturing out during the lockdown. The young people are helping us out them during such tough times. But in some situations, we need go out. This should be allowed. At the same time, the authorities should entertain the real emergencies," said Alaknanda Bhanu of the Erandwana Senior citizens club.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/locked-in-lonely-senior-citizens-in-kothrud-struggle-for-daily-food-medicines/articleshow/75114132.cms||Shyam Sonar
April 13, 2020||Lucknow||Cops arrest 9 bootleggers, seize 90 litre of illegal liquor in Lucknow||LUCKNOW: As two people died and six fell ill after consuming spurious liquor in Kanpur, Lucknow police on Sunday arrested nine men in six separate raids and seized 90 litre of illegal liquor. There is a ban on sale of liquor during lockdown, but 60 litre was confiscated in just two raids in Mohanlalganj. Acting on a tip-off, police conducted a raid on the banks of River Sai in Mohanlalganj and arrested three men Ram Baksh, Prakash and Chhotu and seized 50 litre from them. The accused confessed that they used to sell liquor to villagers and daily wagers after sunset, said SHO Mohanlalganj G D Shukla. In another instance, Mohanlalganj police caught a man, identified as Bablu, smuggling 10 litre of country-made liquor. Meanwhile, police caught a man in Naka police station area in the city and seized liquor bottles from his car besides cash. The accused Ashish Khurana, a resident of Naka, was caught selling liquor in Moti Nagar area following a tip-off. Police arrested Khurana and recovered 17 bottles of Indian Made Foreign Liquor and Rs 10,500 from his car. "He confessed that he did not have any license to sell liquor. He further revealed that he got bottles from another man and was selling them at high price to make profits," said Sujeet Dubey, SHO Naka. Police conducted similar raids in Chowk, Sarojini Nagar and Banthara and seized 22 litre of country-made liquor.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/cops-arrest-9-bootleggers-seize-90-litre-of-illegal-liquor-in-lucknow/articleshow/75114133.cms||---
April 13, 2020||Business||Banks stock up on cash to keep ATMs full||MUMBAI/NEW DELHI: Banks are keeping two-and-half to three times more cash across their network to ensure that there is no dearth of currency at branches or ATMs at a time when there is considerable nervousness due to the coronavirus pandemic. The country’s second largest public sector lender Punjab National Bank for instance has three times more cash. Similarly, HDFC Bank, the largest private lender, is keeping around 50% more cash in its ATMs. SBI executives also said they had stocked up the system with more cash but did not disclose details. Another top private player said it is now maintaining cash of two-and-half to three days instead of one to one-and-half days earlier. Move necessitated by Jan Dhan cash doles too“At the system level, the amount in ATMs is more than twice what you usually get. No ATM is running dry for want of cash,” said a banker. More currency with banks is part of a strategy worked out by the finance ministry and RBI when the lockdown began almost three weeks ago and was meant to avoid any panic in the system as ATMs running out of cash post-demonetisation in 2016 was fresh in the minds of people. As a result, RBI has given more cash to banks, while the finance ministry did a bank-wise calculation and the home ministry chipped in to ensure that there was no problem in cash delivery. “We have received tremendous support from the government, which has helped us make more trips and ensure that ATMs don’t run dry,” said Rituraj Sinha, managing director of SIS. What has also necessitated this is the large amount of cash being released in the system via doles for women Jan Dhan account holders as well as farmers, seniors, widows and the handicapped. As a result of this, during the first 10 days of April, cash withdrawals are estimated at around 1.5 times the average. But the lockdown has changed the way ATMs are filled. For instance, there is more demand in residential areas than the usual hotspots — business districts, airports and railway stations. A large amount of cash is being pumped into rural areas as part of Garib Kalyan Yojana. “Currency in circulation will go up as printing has to increase as velocity of cash in currency form is the highest,” said Mani Mamallan, founderdirector of Electronic Payment and Services-which provides ATM management services.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/banks-keeping-3-times-more-cash-in-network/articleshow/75114162.cms||Sidhartha
April 13, 2020||Gurgaon||Another case in Nuh, 18 who didn’t share TJ info booked||Gurgaon: One more person tested positive in Nuh on Sunday, taking the total number of Covid-19 patients in the district to 45, the highest in Haryana. The new patient is related to the truck driver from Khanpur Ghati who tested positive last week. Five more members from the family had tested positive on Saturday. The district administration and the health department has placed 44 relatives of the same family under isolation. “We have collected samples of all 44 and sent them for testing. In order to ensure that no positive case remains undetected, we have started testing aggressively,” said Nuh chief medical officer Virender Singh said. He added that they have also started taking samples of the family members of other patients. Struggling with a lack of manpower, health officials and National Health Mission workers collected around 200 samples, working till almost 4am on Sunday. Meanwhile, 18 people were booked late on Friday night for withholding information from the police and the administration that they had attended the Tablighi Jamaat congregation in Delhi last month. Two separate FIRs have been registered at Pinagwa and Nagina police stations under sections 307 (attempt to murder), 188 (disobedience to order), 269 (negligent act likely to spread infection), 270 (malignant act likely to spread infection) and 120B (criminal conspiracy). Their samples have been collected and sent for testing to PGI Rohtak. In Pinagwa, nine people were booked. Farukhdin, Ramjan, Basheer, Andul, Mohammad, Jharira and Rujdar had come to Nuh on March 28 after attending the congregation. Along with them, the sarpanch and the numberdar of Dungheja have also been booked. In Nagina, Mohammad, Mutkim, Shaqir, Rashid, Taarif, Yunus, Aalam, Sehbaz and Taalim were booked after they failed to inform authorities that they had returned from the Jamaat on March 17. “They did not inform the government authorities despite knowing the circumstance,” a police officer said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/gurgaon/another-case-in-nuh-18-who-didnt-share-tj-info-booked/articleshow/75113297.cms||Shubhra Pant
April 13, 2020||Gurgaon||Doctor & her trust take food, soap to the needy||Gurgaon: Shibal Bhartiya was born with the gene of altruism, and no act of generosity is ever too much for her. Which is why she thought to name her trust, Vision Unlimited. An eye surgeon at Fortis, Shibal seeks to reach out, as much as she possibly can, to the most vulnerable amongst us. And her enthusiasm, empathy and volunteerism draws others into her orbit. The coronavirus pandemic and subsequent nationwide lockdown has only given Shibal’s endeavours an added urgency. “I have more than I need, and there are people who don’t,” she shared. “I took an oath to help those in pain, but the oath did not specify that I do so only as a doctor.” Having faced her own struggles, Shibal understands what it’s like to not have enough. No child, she stressed, should ever go to sleep hungry, and no neighbour should go to bed on an empty stomach. “I could never un-see the pain,” she confesses. To the migrants making their long, weary way home, Shibal and her fellow good Samaritans were on hand on the highway, making available bottles of water and dry rations. And since the lockdown has been in force, they have given approximately 2,000 packets of biscuits, 4,600kg of dal-chawal (uncooked), 2,000 soap cakes and 500kg detergent, to the many hundreds facing hardship. No place is too far to answer an appeal for aid. “Whenever we get a call, we go – we’re now going everywhere, even as far as up to Sector 93,” she reveals. And, after a group of sanitation workers was given meal packets, each was handed a bar of soap, Shibal realising the importance of ensuring their hygiene. “They handle our trashwhich we do not segregate. From homes under quarantine, and those not. From homes of carriers, those asymptomatic and those with symptoms of Covid-19. They are the weakest link; if they aren’t safe, none of us are,” she explained. Having her back is son Aradhya (who turns 14 on Saturday), trust partner Grashmi Jivani, and, from afar (Singapore) but very much present in spirit, Avani Bhanchawat, who she refers to as their “sensible person-in-chief”. Inspired by Shibal’s work, Gurugrammers have contributed money, time and effort to the cause, opening their hearts and their kitchens to support the less privileged as they, just like the rest of us, look to endure these uncertain times with dignity.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/gurgaon/doctor-her-trust-take-food-soap-to-the-needy/articleshow/75113307.cms||Sharad Kohli
April 13, 2020||Ahmedabad||Sexual distancing: Big cats in Gujarat zoo barred from mating||AHMEDABAD: While workers across the world have been excused from meetings because of Covid, the jungle royalty at the Ahmedabad zoo has been exempted from the mating duties. "We are a zoo with breeding facilities and controlled mating is permitted at the Kamla Nehru Zoological Garden," in-charge zoo superintendent Bharatsinh Vivol said. "But due to the coronavirus concerns, we have completely stopped the mating programme and we ensure that two animals are not housed in one cage." The facility has the only nocturnal zoo in the state. The zoo has taken a series of precautions to ensure that Covid does not affect its animals. Read the entire story on TOI+  What zoos are doing in times of Covid-19||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/ahmedabad-zoo-implements-life-saving-measures/articleshow/75114266.cms||Himanshu Kaushik
April 13, 2020||Gurgaon||2 more test positive in Faridabad, both are from Tablighi chain||Gurgaon: Two more people tested positive for Covid-19 in Faridabad on Sunday, taking the district’s total number of cases to 31. Both the patients are from the Tablighi Jamaat chain, the health department said. According to Dr Ram Bhagat, deputy civil surgeon, Faridabad, “One of the patients is a 22-year-old man whose father had attended the Tablighi Jamaat gathering in Delhi and had tested positive earlier. The second patient is a 34-year-old man who was a TJ attendee.” The health department sent 56 samples for testing on Saturday, out of which 53 came out negative. The result of one is awaited. Dr Bhagat said both the patients are residents of Badhkal area of Faridabad, which is currently one of the containment zones. “We observed that many people who had attended the Jamaat are residents of Badhkal. So we are getting most of our cases from that area. Our teams are now sanitising the place,” he added.  The health department said as a large number of people who came in contact with the Covid-19 patients were unaware, the situation had become tricky. Meanwhile, a 54-year-old woman and her son were discharged from hospital on Sunday after full recovery. The health department said Faridabad will have a new testing facility at the Translational Health Science and Technology Institute.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/gurgaon/2-more-test-positive-in-faridabad-both-are-from-tablighi-chain/articleshow/75113327.cms||Ipsita Pati
April 13, 2020||Chennai||Runners pace themselves for some lockdown workout||CHENNAI: In February, when Pan Shancu, a therapist at Hangzhou in China, ran 50km inside his apartment following a coronavirus-triggered lockdown, little did he know he was setting a trend. Weeks later, posts of a couple completing a full marathon (42.2 km) on their 20-metre-long Dubai balcony went viral. In India, since the 21-day lockdown began on March 24 and many began to work from home, the running community came up with ways to keep running. Chennai resident Dr Anand is using his terrace and even living room for his daily runs. “I am usually up by 4am and run 5km to 10km. On weekends, the distances tend to get longer. But now, my terrace and living rooms are the only places where I can run,” says the 52-year-old dermatologist, who is part of the Dream Runners. All members of the community stay in touch with each other and motivate others over WhatsApp groups, sharing their daily running details. “For many runners, the distances they clock have understandably become lesser due to space constraints. But the runners do know it is important to continue with the routine to stay fit,” says Anand. For Logidhas Rajasekaran, running in a confined space has its challenges. “When you run on a road or at the beach, you have the luxury of varying your speeds. But that’s not the case at the moment as you have to run slow and steady. Also, when you run inside the house, the amount of oxygen is lesser compared to what you get outside,” says the 46-year-old businessman. He has already completed a few half-marathons (21.1km) in his living room. “With nothing to do the whole day, running keeps me physically active and seeing many of my running partners follow their routines brings an air of positivity.” Anand feels it takes great character and willpower to be running in such a crisis. “If you can sustain your routines in such a testing time, then you can conquer any distance.” For many like master athlete and yoga instructor Sundarambal, the lockdown has meant that the distances she clocked in a week have come down. “I run about 3 times a week and do yoga daily in order to remain fit,” says the Canara Bank employee. Bengaluru-based fitness coach Ranjini Gupta believes runners can use the current period to get their basics right. “I feel running in space constraints can put a lot of stress on your body and can lead to injuries. It is the correct time for runners to make sure they work on their mobility and build strength as they are the basics for any sport.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/runners-pace-themselves-for-some-lockdown-workout/articleshow/75114309.cms||Prasad RS
April 13, 2020||Noida||GDA’s highrises to house health staff from Delhi||Ghaziabad: The health department has taken over a Ghaziabad Development Authority (GDA) high-rise apartment to accommodate medical personnel who are coming from adjoining districts like Hapur, Bulandshahr and Delhi among others. According to the officials, the need to provide accommodation arose after the medical staff complained of facing inconvenience while commuting to Ghaziabad from other districts. On Friday, a 38-year-old health worker posted at the MMG district hospital and involved in carrying out a door-to-door survey to identify Covid-19 patients was allegedly thrashed by a police team outside his home in Hapur’s Pilkhuwa while he was on his way to the office. On the same day, Hapur district magistrate Aditi Singh in an official order had objected to the inter-district movement of medical staff. “Despite the lockdown, six persons who had come from abroad or other states have tested positive in the district. It has also come to the notice that several people from the district who are associated with essential services are going to Gautam Budh Nagar, Meerut and Ghaziabad among others, even as several hotspots (places where positive cases have been found) have been declared and sealed. Such inter-district movement will have an unfavourable effect on the steps being taken to control the global pandemic,” the order stated. The Hapur DM had banned all such movement and cancelled passes issued for the movement. She had also urged the administration of other districts to make arrangements for their stay. Chief medical officer Dr NK Gupta told TOI that around 30 medical staff come to Ghaziabad from other districts and now arrangements for their stay have been made at Chandrashila Apartment located near Sihani Gate police station. “As many as 28 flats have been acquired for this purpose and around 80 people can be accommodated here. GDA will make arrangements for their stay as well as food supplies. Health workers are at high risk and staying away from the family is the right thing to do in order to avoid the spread of the virus,” Gupta added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/noida/gdas-highrises-to-house-health-staff-from-delhi/articleshow/75113247.cms||Aditya Dev
