April 14, 2020||Bengaluru||LifeInTheLockdown: Your thirst for alcohol can land you in trouble||When the nationwide lockdown was announced, one of the worries that those with a thirst for a daily tipple had was about how they were going to get their hands on some brew. While those with well-stocked bars began to ration, others looked for means to procure more – by hook or by crook. With the lockdown now extended and no solid information on whether there will be relaxations for the sale of liquor, it is no wonder that Bengaluru has been reporting increased instances of illegal bootlegging and, in extreme cases, theft of alcohol bottles only. And if you too have been following messages from trusted sources on social media about ‘scoring’ a bottle or two, rest assured, you could get into trouble with cops who have picked up vigil on these illegal activities. Here’s a lowdown of what has been happening in namma city… The alcoholic burglarBengaluru has seen some unusual break-ins over the past three weeks, what with these new-age burglars showing no interest in any valuables other than alcohol! "Burglaries are being reported, wherein the aggrieved parties have only stated alcohol as missing from their premises," says Sandeep Patil, joint commissioner of police (crime). The 'insider' buyersAccess to a bootlegger selling alcohol is easier said than done. You not only need to have some solid connections, who can get your message to one, but you should also be able to cough up quite a sum, as bottles are being sold for twice or thrice their MRP, if not more. And if that isn’t troublesome enough, getting the bottle is an operation that looks straight out of a thriller movie, involving a ransom drop off. "Bootleggers do not entertain requests from anyone other than a trusted source. Once the order is taken, a typically isolated location is picked, the bottle hidden well concealed, with some identification mark next to it for you to find it," says a source, on condition of anonymity, adding that only online payments are accepted. The more your order, the lesser the asking priceA marketing professional, on condition of anonymity, reveals, "Once we realised that multiple people from the same locality or apartment complex were coordinating with a bootlegger, we decided to work out a deal. Instead of individual orders, we’s ask him for multiple bottles at a time and ask him to knock off a sizeable chunk from his profit margin.” The highest bidder may just be a copOn Sunday, a resident of Vijayanagar was caught red-handed by excise department officials when he was waiting for a customer. The man had posted a picture of a bottle on Instagram, quoted a price and then opened it up for bidding, assuring interested parties that the highest bidder could pick up the bottle from a designated drop location Tough luck for him, though. Friends rely on barters and delivery appsIf it is not the neighbourhood ex-military uncle with his army quota, it is friends with well-stocked bars who are most in demand now. "I don’t enjoy whiskey, but have a few bottles that I picked up along the way. My friends, who have run out of booze, asked me to send a few across through a delivery service," says a software professional, on condition of anonymity, who only took the MRP in exchange. But even this is illegal, say cops. Meanwhile, 600 bottles seized in BengaluruOver the past three weeks, five individuals selling alcohol in black were arrested in the city and 600 bottles were seized. No word on pleas to open liquor storesMany states, including Karnataka, have had discussions on whether to open liquor stores for a small window daily. These have been shot down. In Kerala, there was buzz surrounding the idea of allowing those with a doctor's prescription to buy alcohol. But that didn’t take off either. ‘Any sale of alcohol by someone without a license is illegal’Sandeep Patil states, "Right now, liquor stores and bars are shut. Any individual selling alcohol will be booked under the Excise Act, as no one is legally allowed to sell alcohol."||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/lifeinthelockdown-your-thirst-for-alcohol-can-land-you-in-trouble/articleshow/75126712.cms||Sunayana Suresh
April 14, 2020||India||How Kerala managed to flatten the Covid graph||Kerala has been reporting fresh cases of the novel coronavirus in single digits for the past few days, a flattening of a deadly curve by measures that included early detection, aggressive testing and contact tracing, and a 28-day quarantine period — double that prescribed by the WHO. And underlying it all and making it possible was a robust public health system. From one infection on January 30 to 378 on April 13 and two deaths so far, the state has seen 198 people recover. It recorded its highest cases in a day (39) on March 27, and the lowest on March 19 (1). On April 12, it was just two cases. It realised early on the potential lethality of a curve arcing sharply upward. Read AlsoCoronavirus in Kerala: No fresh cases reported on TuesdayChief minister Pinarayi Vijayan has cautioned against even the slightest of lapse in taking the precautions against the spreading of coronavirus in the state.As early as January 18, the state health department issued a Covid-19 alert and began to screen passengers arriving from abroad, initially from the cradle of the virulent spread: China. International arrivals were given a health card in which they had to list their travel details and health condition. It's time to mask up and stay safe: Join TOI's #MaskIndia campaignAll the state’s five airports were linked to ambulances and emergency response in district hospitals. Any passenger with a fever, cough or sore throat was immediately shifted to a linked hospital and from there a message passed on to the district medical office. Follow TOI's live blog for latest updates on CoronavirusOver the next week, it set up district control rooms, started procuring masks, gloves, other personal protection equipment (PPE) and medicines. It ordered district hospitals to designate isolation wards. Within weeks, on February 4, it declared the Covid-19 threat a state disaster. Contact tracing was meticulous. Manual surveillance, from January 30 to March 8, began with interviewing individual patients and working backwards to people with whom they had been in touch. From March 9, it introduced spatio temporal mapping after a family of three came didn’t report their travel to Italy. This involved a detailed flowchart that depicted the date, time and movement of each affected person, based on call details and CCTV footage. Home quarantine was strict — 12,470 were in home quarantine on March 16; this rose to 1,22,676 people on April 11. Each person in home quarantine, for 28 days instead of the recommended 14, received an average of 2 to 3 calls daily from authorities. About 16,000 teams ensured those in home quarantine stayed home. By April 12, 14,989 samples had been sent for testing, of which 13,802 came out negative. From April 1 to 13, the state conducted 227 tests per million people for its population of 3.4 crore. On March 28, CM Pinarayi Vijayan announced the state would conduct rapid testing, involving blood samples, not swabs, and results within 45 minutes to 2 hours. These tests can be repeated on a patient in quarantine and can reveal the extent of recovery. More on Covid-19Coronavirus pandemic: Complete Coverage21-day lockdown: What will stay open and what won'tHow to quarantine yourself at homeTrust the newspaper for your daily verified newsKerala also kept its doctors safe. A three-tier system was implemented at all government medical college hospitals. Doctors were split into three teams. The first worked on Covid-19 cases and in isolation wards. The second attended outpatient cases and the emergency department. The third stayed home on leave, prepared to deploy if the need arose. The lockdown showed results in Kerala. The state had reported 109 cases on March 24, a day before the lockdown, and was at that point the worst-hit. But, as the lockdown wore on, it almost flattened the curve, bringing the increase in cases per day down to just about 10% by the end of the first week. Since April 3, it’s been between 3% and 4%.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/how-kerala-managed-to-flatten-the-covid-graph/articleshow/75131011.cms||---
April 14, 2020||Gurgaon||Your thirst for booze may get you swindled in lockdown||Many people have received text messages from service providers, claiming to deliver alcohol to homes during the lockdown. They offer delivery of the choicest imported liquor brands upon a nominal delivery fee, and claim to have ‘reasonable’ prices. With the liquor shops closed due to the lockdown, this seems alluring for those thirsty for some booze. However, as many locked down tipplers are discovering, quite a lot of such messages are part of a scheme to swindle people. Upon contacting them, the 'service providers' respond with a brochure of brands available to choose from, along with a rate card. Once you transfer a certain advance – ranging from Rs 500 to Rs 2000 depending upon the order – they block the customer and vanish. A resident of Gurgaon Sector 53, who did not wish to be named, says, "I saw a message being forwarded on a WhatsApp group I am a part of that claimed to deliver premium scotch brands home for a Rs 200 delivery fee. I contacted them and the prices were the same as the market rate, so I transferred Rs 1000 via UPI. But after that, neither did I get the delivery, nor any acknowledgement of payment." Many such con artists are emboldened by the fact that people are hesitant in reporting such cases to the police. Some even fear that the police may take them to task for procuring alcohol while the shops are closed. "I did not report it because I wasn't sure of the legality of it all. Also, the amount I lost was Rs 500. It was more embarrassing than anything else," says one victim from Delhi. The Cyber Crime Cell of Gurugram Police has received a couple of complaints . "We have registered complaints and are investigating," a spokesperson for Gurugram Police tells us. However, even as the police say they are on the case, those in the know say that in the current situation, such cases may fall low in police's list of priorities.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/gurgaon/your-thirst-for-booze-may-get-you-swindled-in-lockdown/articleshow/75130093.cms||Abhimanyu Mathur
April 14, 2020||Goa||The break allows us extra time to improve: Dennerby||The India under-17 women’s team was shaping up well for the Fifa World Cup under head coach Thomas Dennerby before the Covid-19 pandemic put the brakes. The Swedish coach, who has since returned home on a special flight, spoke on the postponement of the World Cup, how the break might affect the players and other aspects. Excerpts:Are you glad you could be with your family in these difficult times?Human psyche will point out that everyone wants to be home with their loved ones during any time of crisis. I’m happy to be at home in Sweden with my family. It’s important to be closer to your family during difficult times. The situation in Sweden is pretty normal, that is if at all you can speak about normalcy during these times. I’m in my country-house with my wife, and we are almost alone in this area. I’m fine, we all are feeling fine. Please convey my message to the people of India to stay safe. The Fifa Under-17 Women’s World Cup has been postponed...Under current circumstances, for me it was pretty natural that Fifa U-17 Women’s World Cup was going to be postponed. We’ll wait for the new dates. I know the AIFF is working in close association with Fifa to choose a new and earliest possible timeline to host the event, keeping health and safety a priority. When you talk about a football tournament and compare it parallel to loss of human lives and current global situation, it’s understandable that it had to get postponed. Do you feel this break in training will affect preparations?I don’t see the break affecting our preparations. The girls were doing well and the team was overall developing in a lot of areas. It was a very satisfying progress from a coach’s point of view. We have provided the girls an intensive training programme which they are following. They are also updating me and my staff on a regular basis. It has allowed us to gauge where they stand. We would have been ready by November in any case. But with the meet postponed, it allows us some extra time to improve. Will there be fitness issues after the team reassembles?The fitness levels won’t be any worry at all. As I mentioned, all the girls have been provided individual training and workout programmes. Don’t miss the word ‘individual’ as the programmes are tailor-made. Of course, it’s tough for them to work with the ball as they would be staying indoors. But that doesn’t stop them from working on other aspects, and basic techniques. I can assure you that when we reassemble in the camp, physically the girls will be the same as they were when they had gone back. How would you define the progress the team has made so far?The girls have displayed a brilliant attitude. They are adept at learning and picking up the finer aspects quickly. They have adapted to the way we wanted them to work, and have played in the manner we wanted them to. The progress has been good so far, I am happy. But it’s not the end of the road. We need to sustain it, and improve further.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/the-break-allows-us-extra-time-to-improve-dennerby/articleshow/75130808.cms||Marcus Mergulhao
April 14, 2020||Delhi||Your thirst for booze may get you swindled in lockdown||Many people have received text messages from service providers, claiming to deliver alcohol to homes during the lockdown. They offer delivery of the choicest imported liquor brands upon a nominal delivery fee, and claim to have ‘reasonable’ prices. With the liquor shops closed due to the lockdown, this seems alluring for those thirsty for some booze. However, as many locked down tipplers are discovering, quite a lot of such messages are part of a scheme to swindle people. Upon contacting them, the 'service providers' respond with a brochure of brands available to choose from, along with a rate card. Once you transfer a certain advance – ranging from Rs 500 to Rs 2000 depending upon the order – they block the customer and vanish. A resident of Gurgaon Sector 53, who did not wish to be named, says, "I saw a message being forwarded on a WhatsApp group I am a part of that claimed to deliver premium scotch brands home for a Rs 200 delivery fee. I contacted them and the prices were the same as the market rate, so I transferred Rs 1000 via UPI. But after that, neither did I get the delivery, nor any acknowledgement of payment." Many such con artists are emboldened by the fact that people are hesitant in reporting such cases to the police. Some even fear that the police may take them to task for procuring alcohol while the shops are closed. "I did not report it because I wasn't sure of the legality of it all. Also, the amount I lost was Rs 500. It was more embarrassing than anything else," says one victim from Delhi. The Cyber Crime Cell of Gurugram Police has received a couple of complaints . "We have registered complaints and are investigating," a spokesperson for Gurugram Police tells us. However, even as the police say they are on the case, those in the know say that in the current situation, such cases may fall low in police's list of priorities.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/your-thirst-for-booze-may-get-you-swindled-in-lockdown/articleshow/75130012.cms||Abhimanyu Mathur
April 14, 2020||Goa||AIFF may be left with no choice but cancel all leagues||PANAJI: The All India Football Federation (AIFF) said it’s increasingly difficult for football to be played again this season with cancellations of all leagues likely later this week. Like everything else, football activities have come to a standstill in India for almost a month now. With Prime Minister Narendra Modi expected to announce on Tuesday that the 21-day national lockdown will be extended for two more weeks, faint hopes of football making a return this season are all but over. “It looks very difficult (for football) but let’s wait for the Prime Minister’s announcement and then the I-League committee can take a call,” AIFF general secretary Kushal Das told TOI on Monday. Last week, Das, along with top officials of 13 other national sports federations, had a conference call with sports secretary Radhey Shyam Julaniya where it was made clear that not even camps can be staged until June-July. The camps would normally have about 30-35 participants, so the message for football was loud and clear. Any competitive football match, even if played behind closed doors – like the Indian Super League (ISL) final – would need a minimum of 70-odd people, something unlikely to be allowed before May 31 when the season ends. “We were told these are tough times. Even if the restrictions are removed post April 30, there is no guarantee that sports activities would be allowed,” said Das. The AIFF wont blink an eye before cancelling the I-League. There are a minimum of four rounds to be played, but with Mohun Bagan already crowned champions and no continental spot on offer for the runnersup, there is little at stake. If the league is cancelled, the prize money would be split among the second and third placed teams, and the next three. No team would be relegated to the second division. Still at the group stage, the second division I-League is a little bit complicated. According to sources, the AIFF is expected to offer a solution of playing a qualifying tournament before next season’s I-League with teams who could have qualified for the final phase this season. Mohammedan Sporting, Garhwal FC, ARA FC and Bengaluru United could be handed the chance of playing the qualifiers somewhere in August with the top-placed team playing the I-League two months later. “At this stage, we cannot declare the second division as null and void. Teams have invested heavily and for them, the only reward is promotion to the I-League. We hope the clubs will come to an agreement,” said another AIFF official. This season has a record number of 17 teams participating in the second division, but nine of those are reserve teams of ISL and I-League, who cannot mov to a different tier. “Second division teams who will play the (I-League) ‘qualifiers’ will be allowed to register new players, just like what happens in the AFC Cup. The players could be different after completing the formalities (during the transfer window from June to August) but the participating teams remain the same,” said the official. The youth leagues – sub junior (under-13), junior (under-15) and elite (under-18) – are also incomplete. The playoffs and final round is yet to be played. Those leagues could be least of AIFF’s worries. In fact, with so much fear over the coronavirus pandemic, parents are unlikely to allow their children to travel and play. The I-League committee will meet later this week to take a final decision.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/aiff-may-be-left-with-no-choice-but-cancel-all-leagues/articleshow/75130845.cms||Marcus Mergulhao
April 14, 2020||Goa||From moving furniture to solving badminton quizzes, Goan players have lots to do||Panaji:Badminton players in Goa have kept themselves busy. Some are working out on a regular basis, others are studying, while the rest are breaking their heads over quizzes and puzzles. Goa’s Anjana Kumari, currently ranked 239 in the BWF women’s singles category, hasn’t wasted any time during the lockdown at home as she aims to break into the top 100 by the end of the season. “It’s a challenge for us to stay fit even during this period as we cannot be at our sports arenas for routine training. Therefore, like every sportsperson, l am trying to stay as fit as possible physically and mentally, even in this crisis with the help of my coach, physio and dietitian,” said Anjana. Anjana’s immediate focus could well be winning medals for the state during the 36th National Games on home soil later this year. If all goes to plan, she can dream bigger. “My next focus will be to play Olympic qualifiers as the Games have been postponed for another year. l will try my best to improve ranking,” said the state number one. The Goa Badminton Association (GBA) is doing its part in keeping the players motivated. They have engaged a coach, former international Rutuparna Kulkarni and certified fitness trainer Mohit Deshpande, for training shuttlers for the National Games. The duo visited Goa a month prior to the lockdown and are now guiding coaches, players through online workouts and training sessions. It is certainly benefiting many, including Anura Prabhu Desai, who cannot wait to get back on the international circuit. Ranked 101 in the World in women’s singles, Anura has set her eyes on breaking into the top 50 and also steal the limelight at the National Games. “I am doing some limited wall practice at home. I am also trying to stay fit by following a training schedule by consulting my trainers. I want to remain mentally strong during this lockdown, so that I can get back to my regular training routine,” said Anura. International Tanisha Crasto, who is the current junior national mixed doubles champion and girls doubles runnerup, is facing a different challenge with limited space in her house. Moving furniture is part of the routine. “Keeping myself fit is the top priority. I am having a balanced diet to maintain body stability. I’ve got an opportunity where I can spend a lot of time with my family and also get a lot of time to interact with my classmates for my studies,” said Tanisha. Men’s top singles player Aashrun Gautam is equally dedicated and has not skipped a day without training. “I’ve been privileged enough to be helped by my coaches with workouts even during the quarantine period. My only objective is to get better every day by displaying some intense workouts for myself,” said Aashrun. The GBA has also kept its players busy with other activities besides badminton like quizzes, puzzles and other games. The off-court battles are now challenging.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/from-moving-furniture-to-solving-badminton-quizzes-goan-players-have-lots-to-do/articleshow/75131124.cms||FLAVIO LOPES
April 14, 2020||Mumbai||Plasma transfusions to begin in Mumbai today, on lines of Kerala trial||MUMBAI: Taking a leaf out of the book of Kerala, which has begun a trial to explore convalescent plasma therapy for treatment of Covid-19 patients, Mumbai on Tuesday will take its first step towards starting a similar study. The BYL Nair Hospital at Mumbai Central is all set to collect blood from patients who have recovered from the novel coronavirus and have developed antibodies. Convalescent plasma therapy includes giving patients blood plasma from those who have developed antibodies to Covid-19 through transfusions. On Monday, the state government also formed a special task force of senior specialist doctors and designated six ‘Covid 19 Critical Care Hospitals’ in Mumbai to curb the number of deaths in the city. Mumbai, where the death toll has reached 101, accounts for 28% of the deaths across India (358 till Monday night). Nair hospital dean Dr Ramesh Bharmal said the first patient from whom blood would be drawn was likely to come on Tuesday. Special task force of doctors set up to curb deaths in MaharashtraWe first have to create a bank of plasma so that we have enough for Covid-19 patients. We have got all the preliminary ethical permissions to conduct the study. We will draw blood from recovered patients and separate the plasma,” Dr Bharmal said, adding that a few patients who were discharged a few weeks ago have been enrolled for the study. Kerala became the first state in India to start the experimental therapy when, on April 8, the Indian Council for Medical Research (ICMR) approved a protocol for ‘convalescent plasma therapy’ submitted by its Covid-19 task force. “As convalescent plasma is still an experimental therapy, it can only be undertaken as a research project. We plan to give it to serious patients initially,” Bharmal said. Physician Dr Gautam Bhansali said the US and several European countries have tried it as well. The US Food and Drug Administration has approved use of such therapy in clinical trials and for critical patients. In China, therapeutic products derived from convalescent plasma were administered to patients. There is no antiviral or vaccine available for Covid-19, hence doctors across the world are checking if convalescent plasma transfusion can help the most severely affected patients. A study from Wuhan published in March shows 10 adults who were severely ill with Covid-19 tolerated the transfusion well and started developing antibodies that helped reduce the viral load within seven days. The task force of senior specialised doctors was set up on Monday. “The death rate in positive patients in Mumbai and Mumbai Metropolitan Region is higher than the state and national average. The task force of specialist doctors will suggest measures to minimize the death rate and to clinically manage critical patients,” said a notification issued by chief secretary Ajoy Mehta. Also, six Covid-19 Critical Care Hospitals have been designated, which include Nanavati, St George, Saifee, Wockhardt, Balasaheb Thackeray Hospital in Jogeshwari and SevenHills Hospital.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/plasma-transfusions-to-begin-in-city-today-on-lines-of-kerala-trial/articleshow/75131346.cms||Sumitra Debroy
April 14, 2020||India||Why WHO tag of community spread doesn’t mean much||Believe it or not, countries like Italy and Spain with more than 1.5 lakh Covid-19 cases and thousands of deaths each are not classified as being in the community transmission stage in the WHO’s daily situation reports. And yet, Syria with just 25 cases and two deaths is in this stage. How is this possible? Starting Apr 9, the WHO reports what countries themselves define as their stage of transmission. Even Italy, Spain, France and the UK are not among the 22 countries in the “community transmission” category. All of them, and most European countries, are listed as pending classification. Prior to that date, the transmission classification was based on WHO’s analysis of official data on cases and deaths reported by countries. The daily situation report puts out a list of countries with data on the total number of confirmed cases, new cases, total deaths and new deaths and the country’s transmission classification. Countries send detailed data on cases and deaths in a standard format to the WHO daily. It's time to mask up and stay safe: Join TOI's #MaskIndia campaignThe transmission scenarios too were changed from Apr 9. These changes were based on updated guidance to member states on implementation of global surveillance for Covid-19 issued on March 20. Before Apr 9, the transmission scenarios were 1) under investigation, 2) imported cases only, 3) local transmission 4) community transmission and 5) interrupted transmission, though the details of how interruption of transmission would have been demonstrated had not been worked out. Follow TOI's live blog for latest updates on CoronavirusThe new transmission scenarios are 1) no cases 2) sporadic cases 3) clusters of cases and 4) community transmission. Sporadic cases seems to combine the two earlier classifications of imported cases and local transmission as it has been defined as countries or areas with “with one or more cases, imported or locally detected”. However, clusters of cases, defined as countries “experiencing cases, clustered in time, geographic location and/or by common exposures” is an additional scenario that has been introduced. The definition of community transmission has remained more or less the same. In the new self-reporting format, as on April 12, a majority of the 215 countries or territories reporting data to WHO, 81 classified their transmission scenario as “clusters of cases”. These included China with over 83,000 cases and over 3,300 deaths as well as India with over 8,000 cases and 273 deaths and even Maldives and Grenada with 19 and 14 cases respectively and zero deaths. A majority of the 22 countries in the “community transmission” scenario are in the Americas, including the US, Canada, Brazil and Mexico. But it also includes South Africa with 2,028 cases and 25 deaths and Syria with just two deaths. More on Covid-19Coronavirus pandemic: Complete Coverage21-day lockdown: What will stay open and what won'tHow to quarantine yourself at homeTrust the newspaper for your daily verified newsAlmost all 60 countries classified as having “sporadic cases” have few or no deaths and hardly any has reported any new deaths. New Zealand has the highest number of cases in this group, 1,079 cases, with 1 new case and a total of four deaths. Most of Africa falls in this category. As many as 49 countries, most in Europe, are listed as “pending” along with UAE and Qatar, two hotspots for infection among the Gulf countries. In response to TOI’s queries regarding the changes, a WHO spokesperson explained: “As per WHO definition, community transmission occurs when countries experience a large number of cases not linkable to transmission chains with multiple clusters in different areas and face challenges with tracking all chains of spread. Although many countries are facing this situation now, every country deals with a unique epidemiology and context, with patterns that may differ across areas in the same country. For this reason, WHO believes that countries should ultimately decide on their own transmission classification and we continue to support all countries with their self-reporting process.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/why-who-tag-of-community-spread-doesnt-mean-much/articleshow/75131612.cms||Rema Nagarajan
April 14, 2020||India||Corona: As India hits 10,000-case mark, there are some bright spots too||When India went into lockdown on the midnight of March 23, the number of coronavirus cases in the country stood at less than 500 — 498 to be precise. Over the next 20 days, cases have risen more than 20-fold to hit 10,000 late on Monday. This rise during a period of unprecedented social distancing in the country may appear alarming, there’s also some good news hidden in the statistics. India is the 22nd country to register 10,000 Covid-19 cases. Our total cases per million people remain among the lowest in the world at around seven, even though India’s record of testing is poor (137/million people). For perspective, the US has nearly 1,700 cases per million and Spain more than 3,500. A ramped up testing regime in India may possibly raise the number of cases. But since the cases per million are so low, even a significant rise will not radically change the overall scenario. It's time to mask up and stay safe: Join TOI's #MaskIndia campaignThe other cause for cheer, albeit slight, is the doubling rate of cases — that is, the time taken for cases to double, a widely used statistical tool to gauge the spread of any infection. Even as the spike caused by infections linked to the Tablighi Jamaat congregations in Delhi’s Nizamuddin last month continues, there has been a marginal slowing of the doubling rate. The current rate of doubling is a little over six days — the country hit 5,000 cases on April 7 — up from close to 4 in the first week of this month. But the threats too are clear. However the sharp rise in new cases on Monday, when over 1,200 were reported, could be pointing to a new phase of the coronavirus outbreak. More on Covid-19Coronavirus pandemic: Complete Coverage21-day lockdown: What will stay open and what won'tHow to quarantine yourself at homeTrust the newspaper for your daily verified newsIn the past few days, the Covid crisis has deepened in several states of India. In Maharashtra, the number of cases has doubled in less than five days (since April 8). The state’s death toll has risen by 122% in these five days, increasing alarmingly from 72 to 160. Within the state, cases and death toll in Mumbai remain disproportionately high. Delhi too saw an explosion of new cases on Monday, mostly linked to the Jamaat gatherings, while Tamil Nadu continues to register high numbers. Rajasthan, Gujarat, Madhya Pradesh and Uttar Pradesh too have seen a surge in cases in recent days. The challenge in phase II of India’s lockdown exercise will clearly come from these states even as the danger of fresh clusters in other parts of the country remains.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/corona-as-india-hits-10000-case-mark-there-are-some-bright-spots-too/articleshow/75131686.cms||Amit Bhattacharya
April 14, 2020||India||Corona: Elderly at risk, govt lists dos & don’ts for states||NEW DELHI: Listing a series of do’s and dont’s, the central government and the geriatrics department of AIIMS have sent out an advisory to all states for protection of senior citizens against Covid-19. The advisory is meant for those of 60 years and above, who are mobile and who are dependent on caregivers. There is a separate section dedicated to the do's and don'ts to ensure mental well being of the elderly. It is explained that people above 60 years face an increased risk, hence the need to take precautions. It says the elderly with medical conditions like chronic respiratory disease such as asthma, chronic obstructive pulmonary disease, chronic heart, liver or kidney disease, diabetes and hypertension need to be extra cautious about taking precautions. For elderly who are mobile it is recommended to stay at home all the time. If living alone they may consider depending on healthy neighbours for acquiring essential items for home. It is encouraged to talk to family members staying away and to relatives and friends. It is emphasised that the elderly should refrain from inviting anyone over and hugging and shaking hands to prevent infection. Due to summer it is recommended that the senior citizens consume adequate water to prevent dehydration. More on Covid-19Coronavirus pandemic: Complete Coverage21-day lockdown: What will stay open and what won'tHow to quarantine yourself at homeTrust the newspaper for your daily verified newsFor mental well being elderly are advised to engage in activities and revive old hobbies within the home and not to take any intoxicants to avoid loneliness or boredom. In case of elderly with existing mental health concerns, they have been asked to reach out to helpline number 08046110007. It is also advised that any sign of change in mental health status like excessive drowsiness during the day, speaking incoherently or onset of inability to recognise relatives must be addressed by reaching for help on the helpline. The adivsory calls upon caregivers tending to dependent elderly to frequently clean surfaces like walking cane, walker, wheel-chair, bedpan etc. It is advised not to touch the elderly without washing hands. Sharing the advisory, Union social justice secretary R Subrahmanyam has written to all chief secretaries of states asking them to publicise it widely in all districts, institutions working for senior citizens and through NGOs working for the elderly. Based on Census 2011 age - cohort data, it is projected that there would be approximately 16 crore citizens above 60 years in the country. The age wise break-up puts the number of senior citizens between 60-69 at 8.8 crore followed by 6.4 crore who are between 70-79 years old. There are 2.8 crore elderly in the assisted elders category who are either above 80 years of age or require medical assistance. There are around 18 lakh indigent elders (destitute who are homeless or deserted by the families).||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/elderly-at-risk-govt-lists-dos-donts-for-states/articleshow/75131713.cms||---
April 14, 2020||India||SC: Free tests at private labs only for poor||NEW DELHI: In a clarification that is expected to boost testing for Covid-19 by private labs, the Supreme Court on Monday said its direction to provide free testing by non-government facilities will be applicable to economically weaker sections of society and people who can afford to do so will have to pay the cost of Rs 4,500 as fixed by the Centre. Testing in government hospitals is already free for all. The altered order is expected to increase testing by 67 private labs with more than 15,000 collection centres. The order making tests in private labs free had seen the number of samples tested plateauing though not declining. The government welcomed the order, with officials saying the capacity of private labs will be more effectively utilised. It's time to mask up and stay safe: Join TOI's #MaskIndia campaignA bench of Justices Ashok Bhushan and S Ravindra Bhat agreed with the submission of the Centre that the government should not be burdened to reimburse the testing charges for all as it has already decided that the financially weaker sections covered under Ayushman Bharat Yojana would be getting free testing in private labs and hospitals under the scheme. The Centre also informed the apex court that number of testing could be increased from 15,000 per day to one lakh. Solicitor General Tushar Mehta told the bench that about 10.7 crore poor and vulnerable families or approximately 50 crore beneficiaries are covered under the scheme and they can avail the benefit of free of cost for Covid-19 test even in private labs, if needed. He contended there is no need for making tests free for people who can afford it. He said 87% testing is done by 157 government labs that are free for everyone and only 67 private labs are allowed to do testing. Private hospitals also told the court that it will not be possible to provide free testing as kits are imported from other countries involving substantial expenses. The court, thereafter, clarified its directions passed on April 8 and said the private Labs can continue to charge the for testing of Covid-19 from persons who are able to make payment. More on Covid-19Coronavirus pandemic: Complete Coverage21-day lockdown: What will stay open and what won'tHow to quarantine yourself at homeTrust the newspaper for your daily verified news"'The order intended to make testing in private Labs of Covid-19 free for economically weaker sections of the society who were unable to afford the payment of testing fee as fixed by ICMR. We further clarify that the order never intended to make testing free for those who can afford the payment of testing fee," it said. "We make it clear that the benefit of free testing by a person can be availed only when he or she is covered under any scheme like Ayushman Bharat Pradhan Mantri Jan Aarogya Yojana. We are also of the view that looking to the plight of persons belonging to economically weaker sections of the society, the government may consider as to whether any other categories of persons belonging to economically weaker sections of the society can be extended benefit of free testing for Covid-19," it said. Watch COVID-19: ICMR moves Supreme Court against 'free coronavirus test' order||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/sc-free-tests-at-private-labs-only-for-poor/articleshow/75131747.cms||Amit Anand Choudhary
April 14, 2020||India||Coronavirus: ‘Encouraging’ results for drug, India joins trials||NEW DELHI: India is part of the WHO ‘solidarity trials’ for the drug Remdesivir, which has shown encouraging results in serious Covid-19 patients needing enhanced oxygen and ventilator support, and will be able to access any benefits that accrue from the anti-viral medication once it is established for clinical use. Tests were carried out with Remdesivir, developed for use against Ebola. The tests showed significant benefits for two-thirds patients with severe symptoms during use on a set of patients in the US, Canada, Europe and Japan, said Dr Raman Gangakhedkar of Indian Council of Medical Research at the health ministry briefing on Monday. The tests, he clarified, were not clinical trials. The drug was able to help about two-thirds of the patients to get off oxygen and ventilator support, he said. It's time to mask up and stay safe: Join TOI's #MaskIndia campaignAccording to a report published in the New England Journal of Medicine (NEJM), 53 people in the US (22), Europe or Canada (22) and Japan (9), who were on respiratory support received Remdesivir for up to 10 days on a compassionate use basis. These patients were administered 200 mg of Remdesivir intravenously on day one, followed by 100 mg daily for the remaining nine days of treatment. The NEJM report said that at baseline, before administration of drug, 30 patients (57%) were receiving mechanical ventilation and 4 (8%) were receiving extracorporeal membrane oxygenation — a life support system used when lungs cannot provide enough to the body even when given extra oxygen. Eighteen days later, 36 patients (68%) had an improvement in oxygen-support class, including 17 of 30 patients (57%) receiving mechanical ventilation who were able to get off the breathing device. A total of 25 patients (47%) were discharged, and seven patients (13%) died, according to the NEJM article published on April 10. More on Covid-19Coronavirus pandemic: Complete Coverage21-day lockdown: What will stay open and what won'tHow to quarantine yourself at homeTrust the newspaper for your daily verified newsDr Gangakhedkar, who heads the division of epidemiology and communicable diseases at ICMR, said India was part of the ‘solidarity trial’ being led by the WHO which is analysing the efficacy of Remdesivir and other drugs for Covid-19 management. “Remdesivir was being used in the Ebola outbreak. The drug acts on the mutation of the Covid-19 virus, which is why researchers believe that it could work," he said. The chief epidemiologist of ICMR, however, clarified that the article published in NEJM involved an observational trial and not a clinic study. According to a draft report of WHO’s R&D Blueprint, which was released last month, Remdesivir is the ‘most promising candidate’ among the different therapeutic options for treating persons affected by Covid-19. This is because in-vitro (tests performed in test tube) and in-vivo (tests performed in living organism) data for the drug is available for coronaviruses. “Further, studies in mice using Remdesivir showed superior efficacy over the drugs Kaletra+IFNbeta,” the draft report said. Remdesivir slows the infection of healthy cells by blocking viral replication. WHO experts also reviewed drugs used in HIV treatment — lopinavir and ritonavir — either alone or in combination with IFNbeta. It said among the repurposed drugs under consideration, this would be the suitable second option for rapid implementation in clinical trials.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/corona-encouraging-results-for-drug-india-joins-trials/articleshow/75131755.cms||Durgesh Nandan Jha
April 14, 2020||Patna||1/4th of Bihar Covid-19 patients returned from Middle-East||PATNA: Migrants working in the Middle-East are being blamed for the Covid-19 outbreak in Bihar as 15 of the 65 positive cases in the state had travel history from Bahrain, Dubai, Abu Dhabi, Oman, Qatar and Sharjah. And, two of them infected 35 others after reaching Bihar. Moreover, Siwan and Gopalganj accounted for almost 50% of the positive cases reported in the state. While Siwan has emerged as the Covid hotspot with the maximum 29 cases, its neighbouring Gopalganj district reported three positive cases. The two districts have the history of sending more than one lakh migrant workers to the Middle-East in search of jobs. In 2018, a total of 47,773 people from Siwan had applied for passports, followed by 38,182 in Gopalganj. “On an average, 3,000 passport applications from Siwan reach the regional passport office in Patna every month,” said a source in the Siwan district administration. As per rough estimates, around 60,000 people from Siwan and over 50,000 from Gopalganj district worked abroad. Barharia, Hasanpura, Hussainganj and Mairwa blocks in Siwan district have the highest number of migrants in the Gulf countries. Similarly, a major chunk of migrant workers were from villages under Bhore, Majhi and Uchkagaon blocks in Gopalganj district. They are mainly engaged in jobs of carpenter, tailor, mason, driver and electrician. Officials posted at the Gopalganj district control room revealed that 3,180 people returned to the district from abroad between January 1 and March 30. Out of them, 709 returned between March 18 and March 23. Authoritative sources said swab of 607 returnees were collected and sent to Patna for Covid test. The remaining 102 were still ‘missing’. The travel history showed that they had returned from Dubai, Oman, Bahrain and Malaysia. Siwan medical officer Rizwan Ahmad said 988 people returned to Siwan from the Gult countries. The swab samples of majority of them were sent to Patna for mandatory test and the reports have confirmed them negative. Six people — two from Barharia and one each from Hasanpura, Darauli, Raghunathpur and Nautan blocks — have travel history. “Though 29 cases have been reported from the district, only six of them have travel history. The remaining contracted the deadly virus from those people,” he added. Former director of AN Sinha Institute, Dr D M Diwakar, said the people emigrating from Siwan and Gopalganj were semi-skilled and unskilled labourers. “The figures of passport applications from the two neighbouring districts reflect ‘jobless growth’ in Bihar,” he said. (With inputs from Sheezan Nezami)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/1/4th-of-state-covid-patients-returned-from-middle-east/articleshow/75128853.cms||Ramashankar
April 14, 2020||Patna||Bihar lockdown: Ban on all private vehicles without passes||PATNA: State transport department on Monday banned the movement of private vehicles plying without a pass issued by the administration. This will include ban on use of private vehicles for buying vegetables and groceries. Passes will be issued to private vehicles for commuting to offices, bank, hospital and other urgent work and a log will be maintained about their movement. Not more than two persons, apart from the driver, will be allowed in a car with pass. Besides, everyone will be required to mandatorily wear masks. Instructions have been issued to pump owners not to give fuel to any vehicle driver, who is not wearing a mask. These decisions were taken at a meeting of the crisis management group chaired by chief secretary Deepak Kumar on Monday. A copy of the instructions were issued to district magistrates and senior police officials of all 38 districts. Transport secretary Sanjay Kumar Agarwal said the decisions were taken to ensure effective implementation of the lockdown and social distancing to fight the Covid-19 pandemic. “It was observed that though movement of public transport vehicles has stopped but people are at times seen moving around on their private vehicles without any emergency purpose. Accordingly, it has now been decided that there will be complete ban on movement of private vehicles, except those issued passes by district administration,” Agarwal told TOI. On using vehicles for buying vegetables, milk or groceries, Agarwal said: “It was seen that people used to go to distant markets as well for choice purchasing. However, we must understand that we are facing a pandemic and should curtail our movement as much as possible. Accordingly, there will be complete ban on movement of private vehicles for buying vegetable, milk or groceries, so that people buy such essential items from their nearest markets.” Sources in the transport department claimed that passes for emergency movement of vehicles are being issued by a cell in administration in every district and people can also apply for the same through e-mail. Meanwhile, altogether 15,818 vehicles have been seized or FIRs have been lodged against their owners across the state to date for violating the lockdown norms and around Rs3.5crores have been collected as penalty.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/ban-on-all-private-vehicles-without-passes/articleshow/75128865.cms||Piyush Tripathi
April 14, 2020||Varanasi||Migrant workers of other east UP districts to return today||VARANASI: In a major relief to the migrant labourers from Delhi and NCR, their 14-day quarantine period will end on Tuesday and they they will be sent to their homes in other districts of east UP region. However, people dwelling in four hotspot areas of the district will have to wait for the arrival of report of all the samples collected from there to find out whether they will be given any relaxation or not. After 126 migrant labourers of villages and different areas of Varanasi were sent to their places on Sunday, the district administration received a government order on Monday for sending the migrants belonging to other districts also. District magistrate Kauushal Raj Sharma said, “A GO for sending migrant labourers to their homes in other districts of east UP region was received late in afternoon. After sending 126 migrant labourers to their homes in Varanasi, 511 were left in shelter homes of Rajatalab and Pindra areas. They had atrrived here between March 28 and 31. Of these150 are from different districts of east UP region. Buses will be arranged to ferry them to their places on Tuesday after providing them ration kits.” He made it clear that no order for migrant people belonging to other states, had been received so far. Regarding possibility of relaxations in hotspots of the district, the DM said that as per the orders of the state government, all restrictions will remain in place in these areas till April 15. Besides, laboratory test reports of 129 samples is awaited, he said mentioning that a large number of samples are from the hotspot areas. About 13,100 people dwelling in the hotspot areas of Madanpura, Bajardiha, Lohta and Gangapur town had been screened and over 100 samples of symptomatic and other people suffering from various ailments had been collected and sent for laboratory test between April 5 and 12. Screening of people in all wards and villages is being done by 45 ward flu clinics and 32 teams in eight blocks with an accelerated pace. Over 10,000 people are being examined by these teams per day, said Sharma adding that the total number of people screened so far in the district has gone above 1.25 lakhs so far.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/varanasi/migrant-workers-of-other-east-up-dists-to-return-today/articleshow/75128918.cms||---
April 14, 2020||Kolkata||Other communities opt for muted start to year, choose to hold pujas at home||KOLKATA: The familiar scene of people carrying small idols of Lakshmi or Ganesh, a new account book, a metre of red cloth, some flowers and sweets will be missing this year, and temples, like Kalighat, Dakshineshwar or the Southern Avenue Kali Temple, will not see long queues. The first day of the new year will be missing the usual fervour. And it won’t just be the Bengalis. It was and will be a muted affair for Punjabis, Odiyas, Assamese, Tamilians and Malayalis in the city, who either celebrated new year on Monday or will do so on Tuesday. On Monday, the city Punjabis celebrated Baisakhi while the Odiyas celebrated Pana Sankranti. The celebrations are associated with a good harvest and hence offerings of fruits and vegetables form the basis of the celebrations, apart from getting together with family and friends for feats. But the beat of drums and Bhangra moves were missing from Punjabi homes. For the Sikhs, Baisakhi is also the commemoration of the formation of the Khalsa Panth and is celebrated as the Sajana Diwas. “We cannot visit the gurdwaras this time, so we are praying at home. We are preparing some of our traditional favourites, like halwa, kheer, Maa ki Sukhi Dal, pindi chana, etc. and eating at home. A large number of us are also collecting dry rations and donating these among the poor,” said Satnam Ahluwalia, a businessman who is part of charitable associations in the city. Most Odiyas also kept it simple because the elaborate pujas that they offer at the city’s Jagannath or Vishnu temples are out of question now. They also enjoy the mandatory wood apple sherbet or pana on this day, but this year the community found it difficult to buy these fruits. The city’s Assamese community will miss visiting their literary club at Assam Bhawan this time for their Rongali Bihu celebration. “Every year, the Bihu flag is hoisted and young women of the community, dressed in mekhela chador, perform the traditional dance. It is like an annual homecoming. We will miss it this year,” said Deben Dewan, a member of the community. Most social clubs of people from Kerala have decided not to observe their new year, Vishu, even at home. “At least 50 members of the community have died abroad in the pandemic and we are devastated. So we will spend the new year in mourning,” said T Gopalan, spokesperson of the Kairali Samajam. The city Tamilians will observe Puthandu at home. “We will not be able to visit Guruvayur Temple, so we will offer fruits and vegetables and a small mirror to an image of Krishna, as is customarily done at home,” said Rajesh Balasubramaniam, a member of the community.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/other-communities-opt-for-muted-start-to-year-choose-to-hold-pujas-at-home/articleshow/75130984.cms||Jhimli Mukherjee Pandey
April 14, 2020||Patna||Bihar: 12,000 to be quarantined for 2 more weeks in Gaya||GAYA: Gaya district administration has extended the quarantine period of people susceptible to Covid-19 by another two weeks. The earlier quarantine order was issued for two weeks. Of the total quarantined people, 11,250 are under home quarantine and 1,328 others are lodged in government-run quarantine centres in 24 blocks of the district. Home- quarantined people are completely forbidden from stepping out of their homes. Altogether five Covid-19 positive cases have so far been recorded in the district. Of them, three have recovered. Gaya DM Abhishek Singh said those quarantined either have international or domestic travel history. “It is mandatory for people with international travel history to undergo Covid-19 test. Those who have come from other parts of the country are asked to remain at home and approach the civil surgeon in case of any Covid symptom,” the DM said. Earlier, the district administration had relocated the vegetable market of the town to Gandhi Maidan and Azad Park to avoid gatherings. “In the absence of a master plan, the town has witnessed congestion in select localities,” Congress functionary Vijay Kumar Mithu said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/12000-to-be-quarantined-for-2-more-weeks/articleshow/75128966.cms||---
April 14, 2020||Nagpur||Don’t target women, warns home min||Nagpur: State home minister Anil Deshmukh has warned those who might target women taking advantage of police being busy during ongoing lockdown. In a video message, the minister said, “If any miscreant tries to molest or target women in any way, we will take strict action against them.” During the lockdown, though overall crime in city has decreased, some stray incidents of crime against women have been reported. Women who step out for any work might give miscreants opportunity to target them even though the police are patrolling the city 24x7. DCP (crime) Gajanan Rajmane claimed there was no need for women to fear but they must follow lockdown rules and should not get out without proper reason. “Police presence on roads is across the city so there no need for women to be afraid. If any miscreant misbehaves with women we will take stringent action against them. Even though the police are busy enforcing the lockdown, we will not spare anyone who commits any crime,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/dont-target-women-warns-home-min/articleshow/75131076.cms||---
April 14, 2020||Patna||East Champaran fast emerging as new AES hotspot in state||PATNA: East Champaran district is fast emerging as new hotspot of the acute encephalitis syndrome (AES), which had claimed lives of more than 150 children in the state last year. At least 12 AES cases have been reported from East Champaran district alone in the last couple of weeks. The cases were mainly reported from Hardiddhi, Chhauradano, Chiraiya, Chakia, Mehsi and Saguali blocks of the district. Earlier, Muzafarpur was the worst-affected district in the state as far as AES is concerned. Recently, a three-and-a-half-year-old boy had died at the Sri Krishna Medical College and Hospital, Muzaffarpur, due to AES. He was a resident of Muzaffarpur district. Two others were discharged from the hospital after their condition improved. East Champaran civil surgeon Dr Rizwan Ahmad said altogether seven patients were undergoing treatment in the paediatric intensive care unit (PICU) of the Sadar hospital. Hospital manager Vijay Chandra Jha said till Sunday, 12 patients with AES symptoms were admitted to the hospital. However, two of them were discharged after their condition improved. “The PICU is operational round the clock. Doctors and paramedical staff have been deployed there to take care of the AES patients,” Jha said. The civil surgeon said intensive awareness campaign had been launched in the areas vulnerable to the disease. “We have launched door-to-door campaign in remote areas. Primary health centres have also been equipped to deal with the cases,” he added. In neighbouring Muzaffarpur, DM Chandra Shekhar Singh reviewed the arrangement at block level. He also reviewed preparations in the villages adopted by the officials concerned. The DM directed the officials concerned to visit the tolas (hamlets) and villages they have adopted at least once a week. According to the resolutions adopted at the review meeting, list of the physically weak children has to be prepared, especially in the villages and hamlets inhabited by people belonging to Mahadalit community. The families of the listed children will be provided nutritious food accordingly. In addition, handbills will be prepared and distributed among the people in the earmarked villages. “The civil surgeon has been asked to ensure that paramedical staff posted at all the PHCs are imparted training. Asha workers and Anganwadi sevikas have been asked to ensure that ORS solutions are distributed among the people,” a health department official posted in the district said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/east-champaran-fast-emerging-as-new-aes-hotspot-in-state/articleshow/75129101.cms||Ramashankar
April 14, 2020||Patna||Profs, former IIT-Patna students develop face shields||PATNA: Indian Institute of Technology-Patna (IIT-P) and a private firm incubated at the incubation centre (IC) of the institute have developed face shields for use by healthcare workers in their fight against Covid-19 pandemic. Mechanical engineering department and the IC teachers of IIT-P are working closely with the incubation firm of former students of the institute to provide material and manufacturing support. The face shields will be part of the personal protection equipment (PPE) kit used by the healthcare workers while treating Covid-19 suspects and positive patients. Joseph Paul Arackalan, manager of IC at IIT-P, said the idea was conceptualised by Sybylline Robotics, a company run by former students of the institute and young entrepreneurs Pankaj Kumar, Amit Kumar and Ritesh Kumar. “The company has delivered first lot of 25 face shields to Ruban Hospital, Patna for testing. The feedback so far from the doctors is positive. At least 75 more face shields, which will be provided to Nalanda Medical College and Hospital, are being manufactured,” Arackalan added. The company aims to provide 200 units to various government hospitals free of cost to support the healthcare workers in fight against Covid-19. The face shield is made of frame, shield, elastic strap and foam for proper fitting and comfort. It is being developed under the supervision of Atul Thakur and Rishi Raj, both associate professors in mechanical department and Pramod Kumar Tiwari, professor-in-charge of IC. The shields are made using 3D printing and laser cutting technology available at IIT-P. “We want to make more face shields. However, non-availability of materials due to lockdown has made the task difficult for us,” Arackalan said. The company is also working on a medicine delivery robot, which the hospitals can use in isolation wards where the Covid-19 positive patients are treated. It is also working on developing drones for sanitisation purpose.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/profs-former-iit-patna-students-develop-face-shields/articleshow/75128982.cms||---
April 14, 2020||Business||Sensex drops over lockdown extension||Mumbai: The extension of the lockdown, along with grim economic forecasts for the global economy due to Covid-19, weighed on market sentiment on Monday with the sensex closing 470 points lower at 30,690. Ahead of the PM’s Tuesday morning address, a comment by leading global strategist Chris Wood, suggesting the sensex could re-test the lows seen on March 23 if the lockdown is extended, also made investors jittery, brokers and dealers said. On the NSE, Nifty lost 118 points to close below the psychologically important 9k mark, at 8,994 points. The day’s slide was led by banking & financial stocks with HDFC Bank, HDFC, ICICI Bank and Bajaj Finance, along with energy-to-telecom major RIL among top drags on the index. Of the 30 index stocks, only seven closed with gains. The day’s selling, which came on the back of a Rs 1,244-crore net outflow by foreign funds, also left investors poorer by about Rs 1 lakh crore with the BSE’s market capitalisation now at Rs 119.2 lakh crore. According to Siddhartha Khemka, head - retail research, Motilal Oswal Financial Services, on Monday, the markets plunged tracking weak global markets, rising Covid-19 cases in India and the fears of lockdown getting extended in the country till the end of the month. “As global coronavirus cases exceed 1.8 million, the World Bank has warned that South Asia is on course for its worst economic performance in 40 years. Risk aversion has returned globally as US continued to report most number of active cases and deaths while Europe is seeing slower addition to cases and deaths,” Khemka said. “In India, the total cases have surpassed the 9k mark while the death is more than 300. Market participants are awaiting the outcome of the PM’s address on Tuesday.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/sensex-drops-over-lockdown-extension/articleshow/75130321.cms||---
April 14, 2020||Ahmedabad||Collectorate begins check-ups at old age homes||Ahmedabad: The collectorate has launched a special drive to conduct health check-ups of all residents of old age homes of the district.Teams of the district administration have begun visiting each of the 20-odd old age homes — run by the government and private bodies. All 700-plus residents of these homes will be examined.Over the past two days alone, medical teams of the district administration have conducted check-ups of close to 150 persons at Shantidham Jaintirth Ashram, Manilal Gandhi Vridhashram, Aashiyana Charitable Trust, Krishadham and Suvarna Sandhya.“It is a good move by the district administration. The doctors were quick to understand our problems,” said 76-year-old Kiranbhai Desai. “The experience was very nice. The doctors were considerate and kind,” said 80-year-old Shobha Dasgupta.Yogeerajsinh Gohil, the additional deputy resident collector, said: “Our aim is to make senior citizens in old age homes feel safe and assured.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/collectorate-begins-check-ups-at-old-age-homes/articleshow/75130783.cms||---
April 14, 2020||Ahmedabad||Parents seek waiver of Q1 fees, govt says no||Ahmedabad: Parents’ groups have praised the state government’s decision to reject fee hike proposals of private schools. The parents demanded on Monday that fees for the first quarter be completely waived.The government said that fees for the first quarter may be paid till August. Parents can also pay fees in monthly instalments because of the prevailing conditions.The president of a parents’ association, Naresh Shah, said: “We demanded total fee waiver for the first quarter because there is little chance of any school functioning in the near future.”Rejecting the proposal of the parents’ association, education minister Bhupendrasinh Chudasama said, “The demand for complete fee waiver is not practical because private schools have to sustain 2.5 lakh teachers and non-teaching staff. They will be paying salaries.”The Ahmedabad Progressive School Management Association welcomed the government’s rejection of the fee waiver demand. Its president, Archit Bhatt, said: “We are with the parents in these trying times. We do not want to burden anybody with our demands.” Bhatt went on to say: “But we have requested the government to consider a relaxation in power tariff and taxation this year because there will not be any change in fee structures.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/parents-seek-waiver-of-q1-fees-govt-says-no/articleshow/75130714.cms||---
April 14, 2020||Patna||Govt flayed for ‘isolating’ Punjab harvester drivers||PATNA: Opposition leaders Tejashwi Prasad Yadav (RJD) and Upendra Kushwaha (RLSP) slammed the Nitish Kumar government for delaying harvesting of wheat crops in some districts of Patna and Gaya divisions by not taking any concrete decision on utilization of around 640 skilled drivers of combined harvesters and their attendants invited from Punjab. These drivers and attendants were brought from Punjab on special passes issued by the respective district administrations for expediting wheat crops harvesting by using combined harvesters. But they were quarantined at different places for 14 days because they entered Bihar from outside and might be coronavirus suspects. “Respectable @NitishKumar Ji, there is unique contradiction within the state government. Around 690 drivers of combined harvesters were brought from Punjab through permits during the corona lockdown. After bringing them into Bihar, they have been quarantined for 14 days. After that, they will be sent back (to Punjab). By that time, farmers and crops — both would have been ruined,” Tejashwi tweeted on Monday while tagging Nitish. Hours after Tejashwi’s tweet, Kushwaha also criticised the government on the issue. “The drivers and attendants were earlier invited by the farmers on permits issued by the respective district administration. But now they are not being allowed to harvest crops. Is is an injustice with the farmers,” Kushwaha told TOI. Contacted over phone, agriculture minister Prem Kumar said around 640 harvester drivers and their attendants have been quarantined as per a decision taken by the crisis management group (CMG) headed by state chief secretary Deepak Kumar in the wake of Covid-19. “Though their quarantine has caused a very little impact as the harvesting of Rabi crops in majority of the 38 districts is going on in full swing, through traditional method. Many districts in north Bihar has reported more than 70% harvesting of Rabi crops,” Prem said. Regarding Punjab drivers, Prem said the CM has directed all district magistrates to review situation in their areas and ensure that farmers and farm labourers do not face any difficulties in harvesting of Rabi crops. “We will soon take an appropriate decision on harvester drivers,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/govt-flayed-for-isolating-punjab-harvester-drivers/articleshow/75128898.cms||Madan Kumar
April 14, 2020||Patna||ECR starts making PPE kits for doctors||PATNA: The East Central Railway (ECR) has started manufacturing personal protective equipment (PPE) kits at the Danapur railway workshop to cater to the needs of doctors, nurses and paramedical staff, who are treating Covid-19 patients in different hospitals. ECR’s chief public relations officer (CPRO) Rajesh Kumar told this newspaper on Monday that two sets of PPE kits had been manufactured at the Danapur railway workshop and sent to the Defence Research and Development Organization (DRDO) in New Delhi for its final approval. “The ECR has five divisional railway hospitals in Danapur, Mughalsarai, Dhanbad, Sonepur and Samastipur and one superspecialty hospital at Karbigahiya in Patna. We have, therefore, procured all the necessary materials required for manufacturing PPE kits from the Northern Railway,” the CPRO said. 269 coaches turned into isolation units: The ECR has reportedly converted altogether 269 coaches into isolation units to quarantine Covid-19 suspects. “These coaches have as many as 4,304 beds to provide primary treatment to Covid-19 suspects,” CPRO Rajesh Kumar said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/ecr-starts-making-ppe-kits-for-doctors/articleshow/75128922.cms||---
April 14, 2020||Ludhiana||Punjab Police official tests positive||Ludhiana: A 52-year-old Punjab Police official has tested positive for novel coronavirus. The cop, who resides in government accommodation near Sardar Police Station, had visited the outpatient department of Satguru Partap Singh (SPS) Hospital at 2pm on April 7 with complaints of fever from the past one week and breathlessness from the past three days. He was admitted to its Covid-19 ICU on the same day.Dr Gautam Aggarwal, senior consultant in medicine at SPS Hospital, said, “His X-ray taken on April 7 showed worsening of lungs. In the evening, we performed his CT scan that revealed viral pneumonia. His throat swab was sent to Rajindra Hospital, Patiala. The next day, we received his report that stated he had tested negative. On April 10, his sample was again taken and sent to Rajindra Hospital. The report, which came on April 12 night, stated he was Covid-19 positive.”About his condition, Dr Aggarwal said, “He is in a critical condition. The treatment will take time to show results. His health deteriorated over the past three days. He was put on ventilator on April 11.”ICU head Dr Gurpreet Singh said the cop’s condition was slightly better than what it was two days ago. SPS Hospital medical superintendent Dr Rajeev Kundra said, “The doctors who diagnosed him at OPD took all the precautions. A doctor interacted with him for a minute and the cop was immediately shifted to Covid-19 wing. Even as his report was not received, he was a Covid-19 suspected case.”Deputy commissioner Pradeep Agrawal said, “The cop has no travel history.” He lives with his wife and a son, who have been home quarantined. At SPS Hospital, another patient was admitted to Covid-19 ICU on Sunday. His report is awaited.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/punjab-police-official-tests-positive/articleshow/75129679.cms||---
April 14, 2020||Hubballi||Four new covid patients in Hubballi||Hubballi: The total number of Covid-19 patients in the district has jumped to six with four more persons being confirmed of the virus infection on Monday. According to sources, all the four fresh cases are the primary contacts of P-194, who tested positive for the novel infection on April 9. The four cases include three children—P 233, a five-year-old boy; P 234, a 3.6-year-old boy; P 236, a seven-year-old girl—who are nephews and niece of P-194, and a 37-year-old male, who is the brother of the patient. This is the first time that the city witnessed four positive cases in a day. All the infected are residents of Mulla Oni in Hubballi and the entire locality and its three-kilometre radius has been announced as a containment zone with vehicle movements being restricted. P-194 had visited Delhi and Agra on March 17 and 18. He was kept in isolation in a hotel on April 6 and he tested positive for the infection on April 9. The doctors have sent the swabs of his primary contacts of which four turned positive, said officials. All the infected are being treated at the isolation ward of Covid-19 hospital located on the premises of Karnataka Institute of Medical Sciences (KIMS). The residents of the containment area have been asked to remain indoors and essential services are being provided at the doorsteps. The district administration has taken up sanitisation work and is keeping a strict vigil on the movement of people. Police are also not allowing the public to come out of their houses. The containment area and a three-kilometre radius with Mulla Oni as the epicentre comprises seven zones and 35 wards with a population of more than 5.7 lakh. In the past four days, almost everyone in this restricted area has stayed indoors. The district administration is ensuring that all essential commodities are being delivered at the residents’ doorsteps. A survey in the containment area is nearing completion, said officials. In the containment area, the health department staff have been deputed along with police who have established checkpoints. At all the checkpoints, the health staff are screening road users using infrared thermometer.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hubballi/four-new-covid-patients-in-hubballi/articleshow/75130268.cms||---
April 14, 2020||Mysuru||Harsh Gupta to be Covid special officer in Mysuru||Mysuru: The state government has appointed 1997-batch IAS officer Harsh Gupta as special officer to oversee Covid-related cases in Mysuru, which has recorded the highest number of positive case after Bengaluru. Harsh Gupta, who is secretary to government, on Monday held a meeting with district authorities at the DC’s office to take stock of the situation in Mysuru. His appointment would help government to effectively devise strategies to tackle the virus in coordination with deputy commissioner Abhiram G Sankar. Harsh Gupta was formerly deputy commissioner of Mysuru and his appointment as special officer indicates that chief minister BS Yediyurappa doesn’t want to take chances with regard to tackling the Covid virus in Mysuru which has reported 48 positive cases. Currently, 38 covid cases are active while ten have been cured of illness and were discharged from hospital. For the last three-and-a- half weeks, DC Abhiram G Sankar has effectively handled the situation in the district, be it of Nanjangud’s pharmaceutical firm-related cases or of Tablighi Jamaat delegates, both of whom have contributed to the rise in the number of covid positive cases in Mysuru.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mysuru/harsh-gupta-to-be-covid-special-officer-in-mysuru/articleshow/75130173.cms||---
April 14, 2020||Ahmedabad||APMC roadmap by Tuesday to ease overcrowding at Jetalpur||Ahmedabad: The Ahmedabad Agricultural Produce Market (APMC) in a meeting with commission agents have decided to begin trading of vegetables from Jetalpur from April 15. However, the wholesale market at Jetalpur will be divided to prevent crowding.APMC secretary Deepak Patel said that a meeting was held with the commission agents association and it was decided the government will come up with an alternative in consultation with the Ahmedabad Municipal Corporation. “A detailed roadmap for easing of overcrowding will be made and declared on Tuesday.”Bharat Khamar, the president of the Ahmedabad Vegetable General Commission Agent Cooperative Society said that the meeting was fruitful, and the officials have agreed to ease overcrowding. The APMC in consultation with AMC is likely to come up with different zonea for retail traders of that area.The president of the association said that the association showed videos of the market and informed the government officials that the APMC was a sitting duck for infection as over 6,000 traders from across the city and even from Walled City were coming to purchase vegetables there. There is no social distancing, nor are people wearing masks.Only farmers’ commission agents are likely to be allowed at Jetalpur, he said. Khamar said that during the meeting they raised concerns and about the Kalupur trader who was a regular visitor at Jetalpur and was tested positive. The government has agreed to carry out testing of each worker and of the traders.Officials at the APMC said that stropping the trading for nearly four days has given them time to disinfect the area and also break the chain if there was any. An official said that the new rules will not be easy and there will be many restrictions including banning the entry of three-wheelers at Jetalpur. Also traders will be asked to divert the farmers to seven different markets that would be set up. These markets are likely to be started on Ring Road so that nearby areas could be served.BOPAL MARKETMeanwhile in Bopal, which recorded its first case on Monday, the authorities are likely to impose restrictions on the vegetable market in the area. The old market has been closed but there is a new one which has come up near the old government water tank. Officials said that from Tuesday they will ensure that the vegetable traders are made to stand places in groups of three or four so that the buyers are also scattered across different spots.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/apmc-roadmap-by-tuesday-to-ease-overcrowding-at-jetalpur/articleshow/75130805.cms||---
April 14, 2020||Kolkata||In times of social distancing, Bengalis go virtual to celebrate Poila Baishakh||Several residents of New Town will go online at 7.30pm on Poila Baishakh to meet and greet each other and hold a quiz on Bengali heritage. Families in a Tollygunge residential complex will have recitals and adda with the help of an app on Tuesday evening. TimesViewThis Poila Baishakh is going to be a very different affair. The important thing is to maintain whatever safe practices we have been following for the past few days. Even a momentary indiscretion by a few can put the entire community at risk.A residents’ forum in New Town has requested selfies from residents in their festive attires for a contest on social media platforms. Lockdown restrictions may have led to cancellation of full-fledged Poila Baishakh celebrations, but it has definitely not marred the spirit. Citizens have come up with novel ways to soak in the Poila Baisakh fervour and “meet up” with friends and family virtually. “Novel coronavirus and the lockdown has changed the way we live and celebrate. We had to break tradition and cancel all celebrations. But since we can’t visit family and friends, we decided to hold a virtual adda with neighbours and have some cultural programme,” said Shilpa Das, a resident of Swastik Residency in Tollygunge’s Karunamoyee. She stressed it was important because the anxiety due to the lockdown was taking a toll on individuals and an adda was a good way to mingle with others and understand that no one is alone. The residents of Shukhobrishti in New Town have requested parents to record recitals by their children and upload on an app used by the residents of the complex and in New Town’s AB Block, residents plan to log on to a video-sharing platform at 7.30pm on Tuesday for a quiz on Bengali heritage. “Some of the young volunteers in our block have been teaching the senior citizens how to go online so they can participate in the quiz and other programmes. Even though we could not go shopping and will have to forego the delicacies since eateries are shut, we can always socialize on virtual platforms. It will help rejuvenate everybody,” said Somali Chakraborty, a resident. Many women in the New Town complex were busy on Monday evening, deciding what to wear on Poila Baisakh. They won’t be able to step out due to lockdown restrictions, but the preparations were for a selfie contest arranged by New Town Residents’ Welfare Forum. “We need these small activities to look forward to. It is important that all of us stay inside and co-operate with the authorities to fight coronavirus”, said Promita Roy, a New Town resident.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/in-times-of-social-distancing-bengalis-go-virtual-to-celebrate-poila-baishakh/articleshow/75130978.cms||Zeeshan Javed
April 14, 2020||Kolkata||Kolkata: Potato, fish rates go through roof, mutton stays off shelves||KOLKATA: The price of potato escalated sharply on the eve of Poila Baishakh, burning holes in the pockets of shoppers already struggling with higher spending on essentials and uncertainty clouding the future. The jump, traders said, was due to the non-availability of the crop from Punjab and Uttar Pradesh in Kolkata markets that usually acts as a stabilizing factor around this time every year. The retail potato price that was Rs 19-Rs 20/kg till Saturday jumped to Rs 25-Rs 30 on Monday. Traders said the price may rise further in the coming days unless trucks from UP and Punjab roll in. Ironically, price of onion, which had gone through the roof earlier in the year to breach the Rs 150/kg mark, is now lower than the tuber at Rs 20/kg. Bengal is second largest potato producer in the country and prices usually remain stable unless there is a poor crop. This year, the farmers have had a bumper harvest that should have meant low prices. But this is the time when much of the local produce goes into cold storage for sale later in the year and fresh crop arrives from UP and Punjab. “With no stock arriving in Kolkata from other states, a shortage was felt and wholesale price of potato rose from Rs 700 per 50kg bag to Rs 900 on Monday,” said Swapan Samanta, president, West Bengal Potato Traders’ Association. In markets like Behala, Kasba, Jaan Bazar and Bhowanipore, retailers purchased the 50kg sacks at Rs 1,020. “The retailers purchased potato for a little above Rs 20/kg and sold them at Rs 25-Rs 30 a kg. This is unfair pricing. The margin of gain by retailers should not be more than Rs 1 per kg, taking into account transportation cost and local market entry tax,” said market sources. On the eve of Poila Baishakh, fish price also soared, while mutton remained unavailable. Rohu and katla retailed at Rs 380 and Rs 450 per kg respectively. The tastier varieties were costlier. Aar was Rs 700 a kg, parshe sold for Rs 600, bekti was Rs 600 and tiger prawns were priced at Rs 900 a kg. Police on Monday continued to alert shoppers about social distancing at markets. “If people don’t maintain queues and continue to stand in close proximity, we may have to take harsh steps,” said an officer at a municipal market. In some markets, vendors have started maintaining the slots drawn by police to follow social distancing protocol.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/potato-fish-rates-go-through-roof-mutton-stays-off-shelves/articleshow/75130971.cms||Krishnendu Bandyopadhyay
April 14, 2020||Mangaluru||One more patient discharged; no new cases in Dakshina Kannada, Udupi||MANGALURU: One more Covid-19 patient was discharged from Wenlock Hospital on Monday, after his throat swab tested negative. The 34-year-old man had a travel history of visiting Dubai. He had arrived at the Mangaluru International Airport on March 18 and proceeded to his village in Sullia taluk. He was admitted to Wenlock Hospital with symptoms on March 28 and he tested positive for Covid19 on March 31. The patient was discharged after samples sent on April 11 and 12 tested negative. So far, eight patients infected with coronavirus have been discharged, reducing the active cases from 12 to four in Dakshina Kannada district. Meanwhile, all 26 reports received in the district on Monday were negative for Covid19. Similarly, no positive cases were reported in Udupi too. In Dakshina Kannada, no positive cases were reported in the past nine days. Door to door surveyDeputy commissioner Sindhu B Rupesh said Asha workers and multi-purpose workers (MPWs) have commenced door-to-door survey as part of coronavirus control programme. They will collect data including the name of the head of the family, address and contact numbers. Further, they will collect information related to the health of all family members to check for influenza like illness (ILI), throat infection, asthma, blood pressure, blood sugar, renal disease and cancer. They will also collect details of elderly members in the family (above 60 years). Such information is being collected for the welfare of every family and the same will not be disclosed, the DC said, and added that no documents will be sought from families during the survey. The DC held a meeting of officials and directed that all measures should be taken to prevent the possible spread of vector-borne diseases like malaria and dengue. Officials of the MCC have been directed to take initiatives to destroy mosquito breeding places and create awareness among people.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mangaluru/one-more-patient-discharged-no-new-cases-in-dk-udupi/articleshow/75130048.cms||---
April 14, 2020||Business||Concessional rates can be taken for TDS against salary||MUMBAI: The Central Board of Direct Taxes (CBDT) has clarified in a notification issued on Monday that employers can rely on a declaration from employees and deduct tax at source (TDS) against salary income based on the concessional tax rates. It may be recalled that the Finance Act, 2020 had given an option to individuals to opt for concessional tax rates on taxable income of up to Rs 15 lakh. However, for this, the taxpayer had to forgo a host of exemptions and deductions — such as house rent allowance, leave travel allowance, standard deduction, deductions for various investments, medical insurance premium, etc. Payroll accountants and tax professionals have welcomed this timely notification, as April is the first month in which the new provisions come into effect. TDS would soon be required to be deducted against the April payouts. A challenge was foreseen by employers owing to the wordings of the section 2(9) of the Finance Act. A literal interpretation meant that employers would have to deduct tax at source under section 192 by applying the normal rates and not the concessional tax rates. TOI had pointed out this challenge. This would have resulted in disproportionate TDS and the employee would have had to claim a refund after filing his tax returns. CBDT goes on to clarify that if the intimation is not received from the employee of having opted for the new personal tax regime, then the employer shall deduct tax at source, without considering the provisions of Section 115BAC (concessional rates) of the Income Tax (I-T) Act. Once the intimation has been made by the employee for a particular financial year for the purpose of TDS, it cannot be modified. However, at the time of filing the I-T return, the employee can choose to change his option.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/concessional-rates-can-be-taken-for-tds-against-salary/articleshow/75130314.cms||---
April 14, 2020||Patna||Bihar: Education minister urges teachers to call off strike||PATNA: Education minister Krishna Nandan Prasad Verma on Monday made a fresh appeal to striking contractual teachers of government schools to call off their indefinite strike and return to work by intimating the officials concerned through WhatsApp or e-mail. The minister said the state government is ready to hold talks with the teachers’ associations after the lockdown gets over. “We want to talk to the teachers regarding their demands after the lockdown ends. It is a critical situation and the teachers should think of their families,” the minister told this newspaper. Verma said teachers facing suspension, FIR and dismissal can also resume their duty. “However, they will be paid salaries only after the department revokes the suspension and dismissal while reviewing the nature of their case,” he said. Two regular teachers of government schools were also dismissed for boycotting work. Around 4 lakh teachers of primary and secondary schools are on strike. R K Mahajan, additional chief secretary of education department, said the department has released salaries of teachers till January. “Now, we are in the process of disbursing salary for the month of February. The department had already told the protesting teachers that there would be no pay for no work,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/education-minister-urges-teachers-to-call-off-strike/articleshow/75129011.cms||Faryal Rumi
April 14, 2020||Patna||Would-be mothers bear brunt of coronavirus lockdown in Patna||PATNA: The lockdown to contain the spread of coronavirus in the state is taking a toll on pregnant women, many of whom are being forced to skip their routine check-ups and some are not even able to get the regular antenatal tests done on time to detect problems with the growth of the foetus. Several pregnant women TOI spoke to were further stressed that they can’t go to their parents’ home for their child’s delivery nor can they call in their mothers or relatives to help them during and after child birth. Patna City resident Asha Devi recalled the mental trauma she went through during her second delivery during the lockdown. The 29-year-old gave birth to a baby girl on April 11. She had to change her gynaecologist at the last moment as the one she used to consult had her clinic at Rajendra Nagar, which was far from her home. “Because of the lockdown, my doctor was monitoring my situation over video calls. My due date was on May 1. But I developed severe cold and my doctor prescribed me medicines over phone. On April 11 my condition deteriorated and my husband brought me to a private hospital in my neighbourhood and I had to undergo a caesarean section delivery,” Asha recounted, adding, it was difficult for her to travel to her doctor during the lockdown period due to lack of transportation. Sabzibagh resident Shama Parween face a similar situation. She, too, had to change her gynaecologist at the last moment. “When I called the doctor, she explained her problem and advised me to go to another place as her nursing staff were not able to come. I then went to a missionary hospital and gave birth to a baby boy,” said Shama. It’s a custom for most families that women return to their parents’ home for child birth. But several such women got stuck due to the lockdown and could not reach their parents’ place. One such case is that of 27-year-old Karishma Tripathi, who is in Bengaluru with her husband and her due date is May 18. “My parents were supposed to come here on April 10. But due to the lockdown, they could not come,” Karishma told TOI over phone. She added, “This is my first pregnancy and I am nervous. I talk to my mother over phone and ask her what pain really means. Even in slight pain I get nervous. My baby is under weight and I am not able to get many things, which my mother is advising to eat at this time.” Patna-based consultant obstetrician-gynaecologist Dr Usha Didwania said her patients, who are close to their full terms, are highly tensed due to the lockdown. Though she is talking to them over phone and seeing their reports on Whatsapp, many are not satisfied with this process. “In 36th week of pregnancy, antenatal tests are done at least seven to eight times. In seventh month of pregnancy, it is done after 15 days and in the last month it is done after one week. But in this situation, we are advising minimum three antenatal check-up,” Dr Didwania said, She has strictly advised patients coming for delivery not to come with more than one attendant. “It is not safe for anyone to move around in this situation amid this pandemic,” said Dr Didwania, adding, “There used to be 20 to 22 deliveries at her hospital and since lock down there has been three only three.” Pregnant woman and their family members are also apprehensive about using hospital beds and other equipment during delivery fearing that the new-born may catch the virus at the hospital. “Though the hospital staff were ensuring social distancing and cleanliness, I myself cleaned the room in which the baby and my daughter were brought after delivery. We had in fact bought a big sanitizer bottle and wiped the bed and crib. No one knows who had used the room and bed before. My son helped in cleaning the floor,” said 59 -year-old Sheela Sinha, whose daughter Richa Kumari gave birth to baby boy at a private hospital on Monday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/would-be-mothers-bear-brunt-of-corona-lockdown/articleshow/75128938.cms||Sheezan Nezami
April 14, 2020||Patna||Wheat harvesting gathers momentum in Bihar||PATNA: With the westerly winds blowing, wheat harvesting done mechanically or manually in the northern and southern districts of the state has gathered momentum and should be over in the next 10 days, according to the estimates of the agriculture department and the farmers engaged in harvesting activities. The farmers are also hopeful of harvesting Rabi crops in the last week of this month. Maize has emerged as the major cash crop in the state, even as the lockdown and likely adverse impact on maize export might affect its prices and cause monetary losses to the farmers, it is feared. The state had produced 64.66 lakh tonnes of wheat, 31.94 lakh tonnes of Rabi maize and 3.95 lakh tonnes of Rabi pulses during 2018-19. Agriculture department sources said wheat output this year could fall as the southern Bihar districts went for late sowing of wheat due to floods, hailstorm and unseasonal rain. Sudhanshu Kumar, a farmer from Nayanagar village under Hassanpur block in Samastipur district, said he has finished harvesting his wheat crop. “I am now ready to rent out my combined harvester to other willing farmers,” he said. The machine chops dry wheat plants and also separates grain from chaff in 20 minutes in one bigha of land if the westerly wind is blowing and in 40 minutes if there is easterly wind. Agriculture specialist in the state agriculture department Anil Kumar Jha said combined harvesters were mostly in use in 14 south Bihar districts. The major wheat producing districts are Patna, Nalanda, Bhojpur, Buxar, Rohtas, Muzaffarpur and Sitamarhi.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/wheat-harvesting-gathers-momentum-in-bihar/articleshow/75128878.cms||Abhay Singh
April 14, 2020||Patna||Amid deferred weddings, lockdown drives business of matrimony sites||PATNA: Even as weddings planned for this month in the state are being postponed due to the lockdown, matrimonial sites are doing brisk business, drawing large number of visitors. While Sumit Kumar, a 28-year-old resident of Gopalganj, is disappointed that the nationwide lockdown has forced him to postpone his wedding, there are others who are spending their time cooped up at home browsing profiles of prospective partners. “My wedding was scheduled for May 1, but it has now been postponed owing to the lockdown. It may now happen in December or maybe next year,” said Sumit, adding, no preparations could be made due to the lockdown. However, for eligible bachelors like Anuj Bhardwaj (31), who works in an IT firm in Bengaluru, the lockdown period has been a godsend allowing him to spend time on the matrimonial sites. “Now that I’m staying with my parents, so I created an account on matrimonial site. I have shortlisted some profiles based on my preference and similarities,” said Anuj, a resident of Rajendra Path in the city. Like Anuj, Priyam (24) and Vinita Prakash (26) are also spending time on matrimonial websites. “Since my parents are asking me to find a soulmate, I thought why not try matrimony sites,” said Vinita, a resident of Jagganpura. Confined to their homes and spending a lot of time on computer or mobile phones due to the lockdown, youngsters are spending more and more time on dating apps and matrimonial sites. Matrimonial sites are claiming that lockdown has increased the number of visitors and members are increasing as well as time spent on the site has surged. These sites are handing out discounts for paid memberships and even arranging online ‘Milan Samaroh’ between the families of the prospective partners through video-chats. Akansha Singh, an executive of an online matrimony site, said on an average, 15 to 18 new profiles are registering as members. “Now paying only basic Rs 836, members can attend the get together ceremony that we are organising three times a week. For the online video chat between groom and bride family members, we are not charging any additional fees,” she told this newspaper. Besides leading matrimonial sites, some local marriage bureaus are also taking the help of technology. Jyoti Priya, executive of Shubh Labh Marriage at Boring road said, “Amid the lockdown, our bureau has fixed around 22 marriages while 106 profiles have been sent to the members as per their requirement.” Akash Saini, executive of another marriage bureau near Patna Market said, “Once, the members are satisfied with the bio-data and pictures, we send the contact numbers to initiate talk between the bride and groom’s families.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/amid-deferred-weddings-lockdown-drives-business-of-matrimony-sites/articleshow/75128963.cms||Faryal Rumi
April 14, 2020||Patna||DMCH gets notices for ‘sluggish’ testing||DARBHANGA: The state health department has issued show-cause notices to Darbhanga Medical College and Hospital (DMCH) for slow pace of Covid-19 testing. The testing for Covid-19 had started at DMCH on April 2. The first show-cause notice was issued to the head of hospital’s microbiology department Dr Ramashanka Prasad on April 8 and the second to principal Dr H N Jha on Sunday. The two show-cause notices were served by the undersecretary of the state health department Vivekanand Thakur. The show-cause notice served on DMCH principal Dr Jha reads, “The directive for sending test report through specified e-mail is not being followed properly, making it difficult for the department to prepare the integrated report on the pandemic.” DMCH sources said after the health department’s tough stand, the number of tests at the hospital increased from 4 on first day and 24 on second day to 72 on Sunday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/dmch-gets-notices-for-sluggish-testing/articleshow/75128986.cms||Binay Kumar Jha
April 14, 2020||Ludhiana||DMCH gets approval to conduct Covid-19 tests||Ludhiana: The Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) has given a green signal to the department of microbiology of Dayanand Medical College and Hospital, Tagore Nagar, Civil Lines, to conduct Covid-19 tests. It is the first private laboratory in the state to get ICMR’s nod. At present, the state has three government laboratories reporting to ICMR: Government Medical College, Amritsar; Government Medical College, Patiala; and Guru Gobind Singh Medical University, Faridkot.The ICMR had invited applications from private medical colleges for establishing a Covid-19 testing facility. DMCH had applied for it the previous week. For private medical colleges, it is essential to submit a copy of the National Accreditation Board for Testing and Calibration (NABL) certificate.DMCH secretary Prem Gupta said, “With this, we will be able to test samples of suspected Covid-19 cases. We have written to the health department to provide us kits, so that we can start testing within a day.” DMCH has a BSL-2 level laboratory, including a molecular biology setup for virological diagnosis.“We have sufficient staff, including a medical microbiologist with work experience in molecular virology and four to six technicians who have relevant work experience in molecular virology. The staff has a good understanding of laboratory biosafety and biosecurity. They are trained in handling respiratory samples for viral diagnosis, RNA extraction and real-time PCR. They also have experience of work in virology and handling clinical specimens, especially respiratory samples,” Gupta added.DMCH has an institutional policy on biomedical waste management and arrangements for its segregation and disposal, he said. Deputy commissioner Pradeep Agrawal said, “Soon, testing kits will be provided to the hospital. The price will be as per the Supreme Court orders and the government guidelines. All the samples will be routed through civil surgeon’s office.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/dmch-gets-approval-to-conduct-covid-19-tests/articleshow/75129672.cms||Mehak Jain
April 14, 2020||Business||RBI goes all out in MPC meet to tackle crisis||Mumbai: RBI governor Shaktikanta Das had called for “all out” efforts to protect the domestic economy from the adverse impact of the Covid-19 pandemic. The members of the monetary policy committee (MPC), in their meeting which concluded on March 27, said that the impact of the crisis would be determined by the intensity, spread and duration of the outbreak. The MPC meeting, which was advanced by a week from its scheduled date, focused on the importance of containing the impact of the crisis. Members described the crisis as “unprecedented” and called for “unconventional” measures. In the meeting, four of the members voted for a 75-basis-point (100bps = 1 percentage point) cut, while two external members — Chetan Ghate and Pami Dua — voted for a 50bps cut. In the minutes of the meeting, Dua said that more measures will be needed once the lockdown is lifted. “The Covid-19 pandemic is an invisible assassin, which needs to be contained quickly before it spreads and wreaks havoc on valuable human lives and the macroeconomy. In this scenario, it is important to ensure that finance, which is the lifeline of the economy, keeps flowing seamlessly to various sectors of the economy,” said Das. RBI deputy governor Michael Patra said that the coronavirus’s “danse macabre” is taking a catastrophic toll on human lives. “In these challenging circumstances, monetary policy has to assume an ‘avant garde’ role. Even as it fights the corrosive impact of Covid-19 on macroeconomic and financial conditions, monetary policy has to provide confidence and assuage fear,” said Patra. Ghate, who in the previous policy meeting had indicated that there was no room for more rate cuts, voted for a half a percentage point reduction given the acute downside risks. He also pointed out that there was slack in government spending as every Rs 100 spent by the government does not translate into Rs 100 addition to the gross domestic product (GDP). On the other hand, tax breaks had a much bigger impact, he said.Another member, Ravindra Dholakia, said that in addition to the rate cut there was a need to “freeze the clock” to prevent recognition of defaults and downgrades. Das pointed out that the current situation was extraordinary and unprecedented. “It, therefore, becomes imperative to make all-out efforts to protect the domestic economy from the adverse impact of the pandemic,” he said. At the same time he pointed out that the macroeconomic fundamentals of the Indian economy continue to be sound, especially in comparison with the conditions that prevailed in the aftermath of the global financial crisis.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/rbi-goes-all-out-in-mpc-meet-to-tackle-crisis/articleshow/75130351.cms||---
April 14, 2020||Business||Many large cos will honour hiring pledge||Shilpa Phadnis, Avik Das & Namrata Singh | TNN Bengaluru/Mumbai: It’s not all gloom and doom. In these unprecedented times, a number of companies are keeping their promise to honour offers made to campus hires. Among these are technology and IT firms including Google, Cisco, Capgemini, TCS, Accenture, Wipro and Cognizant. And others such as Hindustan Unilever (HUL), Godrej, PepsiCo, Biocon, consultancy firms Boston Consulting Group (BCG), McKinsey, and Bain & Company, and banking biggies Kotak Mahindra, ICICI Bank, Citi and Axis Bank. Megha Chawla, partner at Bain & Company, said she expects a solid bounce back once the lockdowns are lifted and hence she doesn’t see any change to the company’s campus hiring. “It’s very much per plan and aggressive, keeping an optimistic mid-term perspective,” she said. Google, which usually hires 60-70 from campuses every year, is on track to onboard all new recruits. TCS and Wipro are hiring 30,000 and 12,000 respectively this financial year. Cognizant is keeping its word on onboarding 20,000 freshers this fiscal, but it said the onboarding dates will depend on various factors, including the actual completion of the academic programme and the business impact of the ongoing lockdown. Capgemini India CEO Ashwin Yardi said the firm hired more than 6,000 in the quarter ended March, including 2,000 freshers and 4,000 laterals. He said there is no deferment in the joining dates. For the second quarter, it has rolled out offers to more than 4,000 lateral hires and will onboard all of them. Cisco has onboarded over 100 candidates virtually since March 15. Anupam Trehan, director, people and communities, Cisco India & Saarc, said, “During these unprecedented times, it is key for organisations to operate from a ‘people first’ stance.” HUL onboarded 101 interns — from the top 15 business schools, including the IIMs, Narsee Monjee Institute of Management, and Jamnalal Bajaj Institute of Management Studies — in the first week of April. Anuradha Razdan, executive director (HR), HUL, said the company pivoted the whole plan and proactively reached out to the institutes, who were also in a state of uncertainty because a number of recruiters had gone back on their programmes. “We said we will go ahead and deliver a 100% signature HUL experience virtually. Projects which required extensive fieldwork were tweaked slightly,” she said. Godrej has hired 64 summer interns from 13 institutions, including Delhi School of Economics, IIM-Ahmedabad and IIM-Calcutta. Sumit Mitra, head - group HR in Godrej Industries and associate companies, said the internship will run online, with students working from home, in order to ensure safety. Mitra said this may not give students the full experience, so the company may look at offering an additional shorter on-ground immersion later in the year once it’s safer to do so. Biocon CMD Kiran Mazumdar-Shaw said the company would honour all the 250 job offers made. “We have onboarded 90 people virtually and they will physically join us once the lockdown is lifted. We have not pushed back joining dates for any,” she said. PepsiCo has honoured all offers towards new hires, and is currently virtually onboarding the 11 summer interns it had made commitments to. Rahul Guha, MD and head of recruiting at the Boston Consulting Group (BCG) India, said they are honouring the 150-200 campus offers made. ICICI Bank will honour all the offers made, as also on-board summer interns from B-schools on April 6 through a virtual induction programme. Sukhjit Pasricha, president & group CHRO in Kotak Mahindra Bank, said they will honour all campus offers, but there could be a slight delay on account of the lockdown. Rajkamal Vempati, EVP & HR head in Axis Bank, said the bank has this year hired over 1,000 management graduates, CAs, engineers and graduates in new-age skills like data sciences, risk management, design thinking and information security. Shweta Mehrotra, CHRO in Citi South Asia, said the bank is committed to providing roles to 400 full-time analysts from engineering schools and 54 analysts from the country’s top business schools between June and August this year. This number, she said, is similar to its previous years’ campus hiring and there is no change to this plan. (With inputs from Mayur Shetty)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/many-large-cos-will-honour-hiring-pledge/articleshow/75130399.cms||Shilpa Phadnis
April 14, 2020||Business||Korean companies keen to move out of China to India||Chennai: Rising trade war between US & China has pushed South Korean companies to consider moving some of their factories from China to India.The Korean consulate in Chennai has been working with a number of requests, some in preliminary stages, while others advanced stages. “We have requests from two iron and steel companies, some startups and one from the hospitality sector which wants to come to India from China,” said Yup Lee, the deputy consul general for the Consulate General of The Republic of Korea. He said that the Indian government was keen to see Posco and Hyundai Steel, set up their factories in Andhra Pradesh. “They are looking for 5,000 acres of land and port connectivity,” said sources. “The two companies agreed they would go to AP if they decide to invest,” Lee said. The decision to invest in new factories in India will be driven by an early return of growth in a Post-Covid world. “So far no actions from the two companies. Mainly because of low demand”.Besides, these two giants, a number of small tech companies are also keen to invest in India. “There are a number of companies which want to come to India. But with Covid, there might be some delays,” he added.Only couple of days back Deepak Parekh, chairman of mortgage lender HDFC had said that Indian government must open up and receive Japanese companies which are keen to move out of China as part of de-risking strategy. The Japanese government is learnt to have spent nearly $2 billion to relocate companies out of China. “We should make it easy for the Japanese to come to India rather than them going to Malaysia, Vietnam or Thailand. States have to take the initiative and offer them 2,000 to 5,000 acres in some special zone where they do not have to look for land or building approvals,” said Parekh.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/korean-companies-keen-to-move-out-of-china-to-india/articleshow/75130387.cms||Rajesh Chandramouli
April 14, 2020||Ahmedabad||Grace period given to renew food business licences||Ahmedabad: In a major relief to food business operators, the Food Safety and Standards Authority of India (FSSAI) has provided a grace period till June 30 to renew licences and registrations. This means that food businesses whose licences are due for renewal from March 22 to May 31, will have till June 30 for renewals.The decision was taken in the wake of restrictions on movement due to the 21-day lockdown. No late fee will be levied on applications made during this period, confirmed a notification issued by FSSAI on Monday. The decision came as a great relief to hotels and restaurants industry. “Currently, the restriction in movement and a near shutdown of the hotel business has already left the industry grappling with losses,” said Narendra Somani, president, Hotels and Restaurants’ Association (HRA), Gujarat. “The licences of most food business establishments expire around the end of the financial year and they need to be renewed. The decision by the FSSAI came at an appropriate time.” Somani also confirmed that a similar decision has been taken for permit liquor stores at various hotels. They have been given a grace period for renewal of their licences.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/grace-period-given-to-renew-food-business-licences/articleshow/75130739.cms||---
April 14, 2020||Ahmedabad||Guj roads safer in lockdown, saw avg 4,760 less accidents!||Ahmedabad: Covid-19 has claimed 26 lives so far and has over 500 infected cases as on Monday evening in Gujarat. But amid the coronage, you might want to see a silver lining — EMRI 108 data shows that there has been reduction of an average of 238 cases of road traffic accidents (RTA) daily. This averages to reduction in number of vehicular accidents by 4,760 in past 20 days of lockdown, said EMRI officials. Experts say rough calculations indicate that this might have saved some 1,900 lives. According to National Crime Records Bureau (NCRB) figures, Gujarat has recorded RTA mortality ranging from 38.5% to 46% in past five years, said Amit Khatri, a city-based road safety expert. In the past five years, average 21,900 road accidents were recorded annually in which 9,100 people were killed. “Going by the figure, even if we take 40% as probable mortality percentage, some 1,900 lives might have got saved. Of course, this is mere hypothesis but gives an idea of the number of accidents on state roads and lives lost on regular days,” said Khatri, adding that Gujaratis should now be more careful even after the lockdown is lifted. Jashvant Prajapati, COO of EMRI Gujarat, said that vehicular trauma cases have got reduced by 57% during the lockdown. “We record about 417 such cases daily from Gujarat which got reduced to 179. On daily basis, the vehicular trauma cases have dropped from 350 in March end to 120,” he said. “However, this figure too is still high considering the restriction on movement of vehicles.” Prajapati said that except vehicular trauma case, all other categories of medical emergencies have reported a rise. “Calls related to high fever have gone up by 167% whereas calls for breathing problem increased by 51%. For other categories, one of the factors could be closure of nearby clinics and lack of access,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/guj-roads-safer-in-lockdown-saw-avg-4760-less-accidents/articleshow/75130763.cms||Parth Shastri
April 14, 2020||Pune||Mercury nears fiery forties, nights turn warm & humid||Pune: Any day now, the city’s day temperature could touch 40ºC. Meanwhile, the night temperature has soared to the season’s highest accompanied with high humidity. The minimum temperature on Monday touched 22.3ºC, making the preceding night rather uncomfortable for most citizens. Shivajinagar’s minimum temperature on Monday was 2.4 degree above the normal while Lohegaon’s minimum temperature rose to 24.3ºC, which was 4.3º above the normal The day temperature almost touched 40ºC in both locations on Monday when the two areas recorded 39.7ºC as their maximum temperatures. Anupam Kashyapi, head of weather, IMD Pune told TOI that it is mid-summer now and night temperatures are supposed to be high. “Moreover, partly cloudy skies are being witnessed in the night which prevent the escape of longwave radiation from the earth’s surface into the atmosphere. In the night, when the presence of clouds in the sky prevents the escape of this radiation into the atmosphere, night or minimum temperatures generally tend to get warmer. On the contrary, cloudy skies during the daytime prevent solar radiation from reaching the earth’s surface causing day temperatures to fall,” he said. The night temperatures in Pune on Monday were a stark contrast to what was being witnessed a few days ago when the minimum temperature in Shivajinagar fell to 15 to 16ºC. On Monday, minimum temperatures were above the normal in almost all locations in Madhya Maharashtra and Konkan, with Lohegaon witnessing the highest positive departure in night temperature in the state.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/mercury-nears-fiery-forties-nights-turn-warm-humid/articleshow/75131072.cms||Neha Madaan
April 14, 2020||Ahmedabad||8 quarantined docs asked to rejoin duty||Ahmedabad: Eight doctors working with the Rashtriya Bal Swasthya Karyakram (RBSK) in Kheda district are in a quandary. They were placed in home quarantine by the Ahmedabad Municipal Corporation (AMC) after they were exposed to a colleague detected with Covid-19. But their administration has ordered them to report for duty soon by terming their quarantine as self-imposed.As many 180 doctors, pharmacists, and health workers attended a three-hour programme at Arogya Bhavan at Geeta Mandir on April 7. They are posted in nearby districts and deputed to AMC areas. One of the doctors, who was deputed to Danilimda, later tested positive for coronavirus. The rest got instructions to get home quarantined. Among them are eight doctors who are on RBSK contract in Kheda district.These eight doctors received instructions from the Kheda district administration as well as the AMC to remain in quarantine at their homes for 14 days. Red stickers were pasted outside their residences on Saturday announcing that a person has been quarantined.However, on Sunday, the quarantined doctors received a notice from the Kheda’s chief district health officer (CDHO) taking exception to them opting for “self quarantine”. CDHO D C Jagani said that after their deputation ended with the AMC, the medical staff should have straightaway reported to their workplaces in Kheda. It is contended that those living in Ahmedabad city chose to go into “self-quarantine” without seeking any guidance or permission of their respective taluka health officers (THO).The notice further asked the seven RBSK teams from Kheda to contact their respective THOs and follow their instructions. Their failure to do so could invite departmental action, the notice read.On the condition of anonymity, one of the doctors told TOI, “The authorities think that we do not want to work, but this is not the case. The doctors too are very much afraid.” The doctor went on to say: “But we have a dilemma whether to breach the quarantine and invite an FIR or not to report for duty and invite departmental action. If I go out now, I will be putting others’ lives at risk because I may be a possible carrier. They have not conducted tests on me yet.”When contacted, Jagani said, “After their deputation with the AMC, they simply disappeared. They should have informed the administration whether they are injured or ill.” Jagani went on to say: “They should send official documents. How can I presume that they are asked to stay quarantined?”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/8-quarantined-docs-asked-to-rejoin-duty/articleshow/75130648.cms||---
April 14, 2020||Ahmedabad||Govt directs schools not to hike fees||Gandhinagar: In a decision that will bring relief to parents of schoolchildren, the government on Monday directed schools across the state not to raise fees for the forthcoming academic year. Even as the state is battling against the Covid-19 outbreak, a hike in school fees would have been a cause of worry for parents.Ashwani Kumar, secretary to the chief minister, said, “Considering the impact of the lockdown, CM Vijay Rupani, after receiving a recommendation from the education minister, has decided not to allow any kind of fee hike in schools. Education minister Bhupendrasinh Chudasama held a meeting with school associations and sought their suggestions on the decision.”Kumar further said that schools will also not be allowed to force parents to pay fees immediately after the lockdown period ends, and in case the parents’ economic conditions is weak, they ought to be given six month’s time to pay fees. “Schools found violating these directions will face strict government action,” he said.In another decision, the government said that the Class X and XII Gujarat board exam papers will be evaluated from April 16, so that results can be announced in time. Security and social distancing norms will be followed in the checking process.COLLEGES AND UNIVERSITIES WILL HAVE VACATION UP TO MAY 16Kumar said the state government has decided to have the vacation in colleges and universities between April 15 and May 16. A decision on examinations in colleges and universities will be taken after consultation with the UGC. A formal announcement in this regard will be made in the next few days, he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/govt-directs-schools-not-to-hike-fees/articleshow/75130685.cms||---
April 14, 2020||Ahmedabad||27 caught for not wearing masks in Ahmedabad||AHMEDABAD: Ninety-six teams of the Ahmedabad Municipal Corporation caught 27 people for not wearing masks and collected fines totalling Rs 27,000. Most of these were caught in the walled city area, where cluster quarantine has been imposed after several Covid-19 cases were reported. Ahmedabad Municipal Commissioner Vijay Nehra had on Sunday issued a notification making the wearing of masks compulsory. Nehra said those who fail to wear masks will be fined for Rs 1,000 for the first offence and Rs 5,000 for subsequent offences. AMC officials said while most government officials and police personnel were wearing proper purpose-made masks, most members of the general public were wearing handkerchiefs. An officer said that in many cases the handkerchief was only tied around the neck and on seeing the Joint Enforcement Team rickshaws or the police, they would pull the handkerchief up to avoid paying the fine. The officer said N95 or surgical masks are rare. Most people said that handkerchiefs can be washed but surgical masks, which cost between Rs 30 and Rs 100 have to be thrown away. The official said, “The fear of the coronoavirus has made 90% of people wear masks on the road and while the fear of the fine was one aspect, most people were more concerned about the virus.” Nehra tweeted: “Very encouraging reports coming from the field. Almost Universal Voluntary Compliance of the order wearing masks compulsory. Maru Ahmdavad is coming together to fight corona virus.” The officer said that most teams, especially those in the New West Zone, could not catch a single person without a mask.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/27-caught-for-not-wearing-masks/articleshow/75130612.cms||---
April 14, 2020||Patna||This 32-year-old engineer stands tall against odds||PATNA: Even though lockdown to prevent spread of Covid-19 has brought life to a grinding halt, there are some who perform their duties standing tall against all odds. Meet Pushkar Kumar, an electrical engineer, and his team members who do not hesitate even for a second while performing their duties even though their workplace has become riskier. An executing engineer with South Bihar Power Distribution Company Limited, Kumar looks after the power supply at Nalanda Medical College and Hospital (NMCH), a dedicated hospital for Covid-19 patients. “I enter the hospital campus after taking all precautionary measures. Even though my team members and I don’t come in direct contact with the doctors and patients at the hospital, we try to follow all necessary guidelines issued by the health department. The virus is so contagious that it can infect anybody anywhere,” he said. The 32-year-old, who lives at the officers’ flat in Karbigahiya locality, said, “Even though my work is not like doctors and health workers, who come in direct contact with positive patients, I sanitise myself outside my house and take a shower after entering the house. I also drink warm water in order to stay safe,” he said. Kumar, who supervises a team of electricians, said the power supply station receives more than 60-70 calls from residents on a daily basis. “Electrical repair service is one of the essential services, especially during the lockdown period when everybody is at home. My team members and I visit at least 65 houses on a daily basis for maintenance related work. Keeping in mind the rise in mercury, we are trying our best to ensure uninterrupted power supply,” he said. Kumar believes that if he stops working, people will face problems. “At this point of time, when every individual is affected, I feel privileged to contribute my part for the welfare of the citizens,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/this-32-year-old-engineer-stands-tall-against-odds/articleshow/75128896.cms||Archi Rani
April 14, 2020||Business||Drug, med device mfg cos operate at 50% capacity||Rupali.Mukherjee@timesgroup.com Mumbai: Prospects of a steady supply of medicines and devices are yet to improve. Drug manufacturing plants and medical device units continue to face disruptions on account of an interrupted supply chain of key raw materials and packaging, as well as employee commuting problems due to the national lockdown. Average capacity utilisation is at a low 40-50%. With units still limping back to normalcy across the country and inventory levels running low, there could be shortages ahead of certain essential medicines and devices, companies say. A GSK executive told TOI, though certain bottlenecks have eased, issues remain with regard to suppliers and contract manufacturing units, which continue to face employee movement-related challenges in Daman. The executive added truckers’ movement through inter-state borders remains problematic but the Nashik-based plant does not have any worker issues as they are based locally. “The plant is currently operating at full capacity. However, there are challenges with the supply chain and particularly ensuring material flows into the factory uninterrupted. Some part of our production might get hampered as suppliers are not providing packaging,” he said. Medical device companies, which import key components or need to transport them across India, are still facing delays with shipments (air and sea cargo), and with local couriers and transporters. “Companies are limping back to a limited capacity in some areas, with 30-40% of pre-lockdown production levels and 20-30% for dispatch levels. Units at containment and sealed areas are effectively shut as movement of workers and vehicles has stopped. Logistics is improving slowly,” said Rajiv Nath, forum coordinator of AiMeD, an industry association of domestic medical devices companies. Chennai-based Trivitron Healthcare and others have flagged issues related to movement of key components, transportation of finished goods, and delays in import shipments of Covid-testing kits. Units that manufacture key raw materials and packaging material are still facing a lockdown. Hence their supplies are affected. “We are managing with inventory, which will last for a couple of weeks only,” a Mumbai-based drug company said. To make matters worse, prices of active pharmaceutical ingredients (APIs) have increased with delays in imports, though shipments from certain areas in China have resumed. “Production levels vary and, except for a few plants where attendance was low due to restrictions on inter-state people movement, our operations have not been majorly impacted. We are grateful to the government authorities for their continued support to the pharmaceuticals industry. Things are getting better and we hope to get more support from transport providers and the pharmaceutical ancillary units. The health and safety of employees remain our top priority,” a spokesperson from Mumbai-based Sun Pharma, which has plants at over 20 different locations, said. However, according to data from pharma research firm Aiocd-Awacs, there is adequate stock at distributor level across therapies, with the least in anti-diabetics (four weeks) and highest in dermatology (eight weeks). Overall, there’s an inventory of 52 days for anti-malarials like hydroxychloroquine (HCQ), despite the spurt in sales. As production and transport ramps up, stock levels are expected to go up and stabilise, preventing any shortages of essential medicines. Overall, there are stocks of almost three months.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/drug-med-device-mfg-cos-operate-at-50-capacity/articleshow/75130373.cms||Rupali Mukherjee
April 14, 2020||Business||Mauritius FPIs can avail indirect transfer benefits||Mumbai: The finance ministry on Monday allowed foreign portfolio investors (FPIs) registered in Mauritius to be categorised in the top bracket of overseas funds, called category-1 investors. The decision was taken by the department of economic affairs (DEA) after Mauritius announced its adherence to the Financial Action Task Force (FATF) guidelines. In effect, this decision will allow Mauritius-based FPIs to avail benefits of indirect transfers. FATF guidelines are a globally accepted protocol to curb money laundering. In the Budget this year, the government had allowed only category-1 FPIs, registered in countries that follow FATF guidelines, to avail benefits of indirect transfer of shares like transfer of funds’ units between investors of the same fund. The Budget proposals had left out, among others, countries like Mauritius and Cayman Island, which did not adhere to FATF guidelines. “Due to the recent Budget announcement, the exemption from indirect transfers was provided to category-1 FPIs. Mauritius not being a FATF member country, was not eligible to come under FPI category-1 list. Through this government order, funds from Mauritius have been allowed to be registered as category-1 FPIs and hence would get the benefit from indirect transfer provisions under the tax rules,” said Amit Maheshwari, partner, AKM Global.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/mauritius-fpis-can-avail-indirect-transfer-benefits/articleshow/75130309.cms||---
April 14, 2020||Business||Many large companies will honour hiring pledge||BENGALURU/MUMBAI: It’s not all gloom and doom. In these unprecedented times, a number of companies are keeping their promise to honour offers made to campus hires. Among these are technology and IT firms including Google, Cisco, Capgemini, TCS, Accenture, Wipro and Cognizant. And others such as Hindustan Unilever (HUL), Godrej, PepsiCo, Biocon, consultancy firms Boston Consulting Group (BCG), McKinsey, and Bain & Company, and banking biggies Kotak Mahindra, ICICI Bank, Citi and Axis Bank. Megha Chawla, partner at Bain & Company, said she expects a solid bounce back once the lockdowns are lifted and hence she doesn’t see any change to the company’s campus hiring. “It’s very much per plan and aggressive, keeping an optimistic mid-term perspective,” she said. Google, which usually hires 60-70 from campuses every year, is on track to onboard all new recruits. TCS and Wipro are hiring 30,000 and 12,000 respectively this financial year. Cognizant is keeping its word on onboarding 20,000 freshers this fiscal, but it said the onboarding dates will depend on various factors, including the actual completion of the academic programme and the business impact of the ongoing lockdown. (Representative image)Capgemini India CEO Ashwin Yardi said the firm hired more than 6,000 in the quarter ended March, including 2,000 freshers and 4,000 laterals. He said there is no deferment in the joining dates. For the second quarter, it has rolled out offers to more than 4,000 lateral hires and will onboard all of them. Cisco has onboarded over 100 candidates virtually since March 15. Anupam Trehan, director, people and communities, Cisco India & Saarc, said, “During these unprecedented times, it is key for organisations to operate from a ‘people first’ stance.” HUL onboarded 101 interns — from the top 15 business schools, including the IIMs, Narsee Monjee Institute of Management, and Jamnalal Bajaj Institute of Management Studies — in the first week of April. Anuradha Razdan, executive director (HR), HUL, said the company pivoted the whole plan and proactively reached out to the institutes, who were also in a state of uncertainty because a number of recruiters had gone back on their programmes. “We said we will go ahead and deliver a 100% signature HUL experience virtually. Projects which required extensive fieldwork were tweaked slightly,” she said. Godrej has hired 64 summer interns from 13 institutions, including Delhi School of Economics, IIM-Ahmedabad and IIM-Calcutta. Sumit Mitra, head - group HR in Godrej Industries and associate companies, said the internship will run online, with students working from home, in order to ensure safety. Mitra said this may not give students the full experience, so the company may look at offering an additional shorter on-ground immersion later in the year once it’s safer to do so. Biocon CMD Kiran Mazumdar-Shaw said the company would honour all the 250 job offers made. “We have onboarded 90 people virtually and they will physically join us once the lockdown is lifted. We have not pushed back joining dates for any,” she said. PepsiCo has honoured all offers towards new hires, and is currently virtually onboarding the 11 summer interns it had made commitments to. Rahul Guha, MD and head of recruiting at the Boston Consulting Group (BCG) India, said they are honouring the 150-200 campus offers made. ICICI Bank will honour all the offers made, as also on-board summer interns from B-schools on April 6 through a virtual induction programme. Sukhjit Pasricha, president & group CHRO in Kotak Mahindra Bank, said they will honour all campus offers, but there could be a slight delay on account of the lockdown. Rajkamal Vempati, EVP & HR head in Axis Bank, said the bank has this year hired over 1,000 management graduates, CAs, engineers and graduates in new-age skills like data sciences, risk management, design thinking and information security. Shweta Mehrotra, CHRO in Citi South Asia, said the bank is committed to providing roles to 400 full-time analysts from engineering schools and 54 analysts from the country’s top business schools between June and August this year. This number, she said, is similar to its previous years’ campus hiring and there is no change to this plan. (With inputs from Mayur Shetty)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/many-large-cos-will-honour-hiring-pledge/articleshow/75130365.cms||Shilpa Phadnis
April 14, 2020||Trichy||Women SHGs step in to meet rising demand of PPE kits for health workers||TRICHY: Three women self-help groups (SHGs) have tried their hands at making personal protective equipment (PPEs) kits for health workers, including doctors involved in treating Covid-19 patients and have so far made 2,000 kits. Ever since the outbreak of Covid-19 across the world, the demand for PPE kits for doctors, nurses and other health workers who come in close proximity to the positive patients, has been on the rise. However, with only a limited number of manufacturers, the women SHGs from Trichy have confidently taken up the task and made their product available in government hospitals. The SHGs - Desiya Paravai, Lemon and Orange under Magalir Thittam, Trichy have come together to manufacture the kits from non-woven fabrics at Poomalai shopping complex at Bharathidasan Salai. The kits come in two models - suit and gown. The suit model comprises a cap, one pair of shoe cover and one face shield while the gown model has a cap, a face shield, a gown and a pair of legging. Hand gloves will not be part of the kit as the manufacturer has asked the hospital to arrange for the gloves on their own. The raw materials are supplied from Coimbatore and Chennai. Launching their production on March 28, out of 2,000 PPE kits they had made so far, 950 have been supplied to the Mahatma Gandhi memorial government hospital (MGMGH) in Trichy and 750 to the Magalir Thittam in Perambalur. S Thilagavathy of Desiya Paravai SHG said that her SHG had a decade of experience in making delivery mat, caesarean mat, doctor’s coat and napkins when asked if the women were trained to make PPE kits, specifically designed to protect health workers. “The experience in the field helped our members easily to pick up the idea and make the PPE kits. Initially, our people struggled to make 30 to 40 kits every day. Now, we are knocking out 350 to 400 kits a day,” Thilagavathy told TOI and thanked Trichy collector S Sivarasu for getting them orders from MGMGH. The group is functioning with two male cutting masters and eight women tailors. Thilagavathy also said that they have accepted some suggestions from the doctors to customise the suits according to their convenience.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/women-shgs-step-in-to-meet-rising-demand-of-ppe-kits-for-health-workers/articleshow/75131079.cms||---
April 14, 2020||Trichy||Trichy police help alcoholics sober up||TRICHY: At a time when the closure of Tasmac shops has pushed several alcoholics to the edge, the district police have come forward to help habitual drinkers overcome their temptation to drink and return to normal life. A de-addiction awareness programme organized by the district police, following incidences of tipplers consuming chemical products like hand sanitisers to get a high, has brought about a positive change in the life of such people. R Baburaj, 48, from Lalgudi area, used to consume two 180ml liquor bottles a day without which he could not control his trembling hands. His life changed in a fortnight and now he has earned the respect from his entire family. “Being a parotta master in an eatery in Lalgudi, I would spend around Rs 500 towards liquor. After the lockdown, I had the cravings for two days after which I slowly came out of the temptation. Now, I realize the value of my life and family. Even if liquor is available after lockdown, I will not touch it,” Baburaj told TOI. A Muruganandham, 27, a construction contractor from Lalgudi, also heaved a sigh of relief as the unavailability of liquor has changed his life entirely. “I was already under treatment in a de-addiction centre but I still had the cravings. I struggled to keep myself under control for 10 days after the wine shops were closed. It is clear now. I am praying to the government not to open the liquor shops any more,” said Muruganandham. P Ramanan, 27, a post-graduate, diverted his attention towards physical workout to get rid of his cravings. The three were among around 100 alcoholics from Samayapuram, Kollidam and Lalgudi identified by the Trichy rural police. Psychologist S Muthukumaran of Sunrise De-addiction Centre advised them to drink more water to keep their body hydrated and eat vegetables and fruits to help them overcome the urge to drink. To get rid of the psychological dependence, Muthukumar suggested them to understand the gravity of the issue. “They should be aware that alcohol addiction is not a habit but a disease. The present situation is called conditional stopping as they are forced to stop drinking due to unavailability. The addiction also can be cured through treatment,” said Muthukumar, expressing his willingness to provide free counselling to the affected people. Inspector R Madan of Samayapuram police said they listed out alcohol dependants and habitual drinkers in their area soon after bitter incidences of suicides of such people in several places in the state. “Unable to control their temptation to consume alcohol, some people even drank illicit liquor or some chemical solution laced with soft drinks and risk their lives. As instructed by our higher officials, we have arranged for counselling on a war-footing. The attendees of the meeting have been almost addicted to liquor,” said inspector Madan who identified nearly 50 people in Samayapuram and Kollidam. District anti-human trafficking unit inspector P Azeem who was also part of the programme said it was an eye-opener to the participants. “Almost all the participants have shared their experience with the psychologist and got their doubts on de-addiction clarified.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/trichy-police-help-alcoholics-sober-up/articleshow/75131080.cms||---
April 14, 2020||Trichy||SR extends special parcel train service||TRICHY: Southern Railway has extended its special parcel service till April 25 as the Union government is all set to extend the curfew further. Utilising the service, Trichy railway division has transported nine quintals of medicines to various part of the state during the lockdown. The Chennai Egmore – Nagercoil daily parcel cargo express special train will leave Chennai Egmore at 5am and stop at Villuppuram, Vridhachalam, Ariyalur, Trichy, Dindigul, Madurai, Virudhunagar, Tirunelveli and reach Nagercoil at 7pm the same day. In the return direction, the train will leave Nagercoil at 8am and make the same stops. The train will have a high capacity parcel van and a luggage cum brake van. According to officials, boxes containing medicines were moved from Trichy junction to various destinations within the state on the parcel train from April 9 to 11. The medicines had been transported from Trichy, Villupuram and Ariyalur to Chennai, Nagercoil, Thirunelveli, Madurai and Dindigul. Out of nine quintals, four quintals was moved only from Trichy junction, officials said. This apart, 21 quintals of medicines was brought to Trichy from Chennai on the parcel train.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/sr-extends-special-parcel-train-service/articleshow/75131077.cms||---
April 14, 2020||Varanasi||Varanasi flat owner accommodates Chinese woman tourist, booked||VARANASI: Police lodged a case against flat owner Sambhav Chaturvedi of Saket Nagar under Sarai Act and the Foreigners Act for accommodating a Chinese woman tourist in his flat without informing the foreigner record registration office (FRRO) of police. According to said SP (City) Dinesh Kumar Singh, the flat owner had quarantined Chinese woman Pochnzhou Juhua in his flat and misled his neighbours saying that the Chinese tourist was a native of Manipur. The stay of a Chinese national in a private accommodation came to light when some residents of Saket Nagar alerted the Lanka police on Monday morning. Inspector Lanka Bharat Bhushan said, “After taking note of the complaint of the locals, police raided the flat and checked the documents of the Chinese woman when it came to light that she had arrived India on January 29 and initially stayed at a guest house in Dashaswamedh area”. When the Janata-curfew was announced, the guest house manager asked her to vacate the room, the inspector said. On March 21, Sambhav Chaturvedi accommodated the Chinese tourist in his flat without reporting the matter to FRRO. When Chaturvedi’s neighbours tried to know about his tenant, he told them that she belonged to Manipur, the inspector added. The SP (City) said after registering this case, the Lanka police have also been directed to investigate the past records of Chaturvedi as during initial investigation revealed that he had accommodated foreigners in his flat in past .||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/varanasi/city-flat-owner-accommodates-chinese-woman-tourist-booked/articleshow/75128946.cms||---
April 14, 2020||Delhi||Delhi: Patient positive, RML Hospital staff in isolation||NEW DELHI: Several doctors and nurses working in the gynaecology unit of Ram Manohar Lohia (RML) Hospital were advised self-quarantine on Monday after a woman who delivered a baby at the hospital last week tested positive for Covid-19. A source said the woman, in her late 30s, was referred from the Lok Nayak hospital, which has been turned into a Covid-19 facility. “When the woman came here, she didn’t have any symptom of Covid-19. So we conducted the delivery. But she developed high fever later and her swab sample was sent for testing,” said a senior RML doctor. “The results arrived today and it confirmed our worst fears,” he added. Across Delhi, more than 300 healthcare workers, mostly nurses and doctors, are under self-quarantine after coming in contact with infected individuals and at least 40 of them have tested positive till date. On Monday, the authorities at Max Hospital, Saket confirmed that three of their staff — a doctor, nurse and a non-medical staffer — had tested positive. All of them are recovering, they said. Recently over 115 healthcare workers at Sir Ganga Ram Hospital (SGRH) were sent into home isolation after two asymptomatic patients later tested positive for the novel coronavirus infection. Only three of the staff members have tested positive and the rest negative, a spokesperson said on Monday. Meanwhile, in view of the increasing number of Covid-19 cases in Delhi, postgraduate students of Maulana Azad Medical College (MAMC) have been asked to report to local district authorities to supplement the existing manpower on the ground. This is being done to ensure aggressive screening of people residing in the containment zones for Covid-19 symptoms, said a source. However, many resident doctors claimed that with 700 patients admitted to the Lok Nayak hospital, which is associated with MAMC, there was already doctors’ shortage and this exercise could have been avoided. The MAMC CHS Teachers’Association has also opposed the move. “This order has come as an utter shock especially since the letter was issued on the same day as another letter issued by the government stating that Lok Nayak hospital will now be upgraded to handle 2,000 Covid-19 patients,” they have written to the dean of MAMC College and associated hospitals. With the steady patient flow at Lok Nayak, “this (diversion of manpower) will lead to a collapse of the services”, they said. Out of the 1,510 Covid-19 cases in Delhi, at least 746 are from the Alai Markaz area in Nizamuddin, an agency report has quoted health minister Satyendar Jain as saying. An area is declared as a hotspot if three or more cases are reported, he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/patient-ve-rml-staff-in-isolation/articleshow/75131096.cms||Durgesh Nandan Jha
April 14, 2020||Ludhiana||PSPCL turns banker to beat lockdown blues||Ludhiana: If you are worried over falling rates of interest of banks on deposits and FDs, you may consider keeping your money with the Punjab State Power Corporation Ltd (PSPCL) instead, which has announced offering double the interest on advance deposits.Staring at huge losses due to Covid-19 lockdown, resulting in non-consumption of power by industrial units in Punjab, PSPCL has come out with this offer, which could not just help fill the cash-strapped department’s coffers but also give commercial banks a tough competition. According to this scheme, PSPCL will now offer 1% monthly interest to consumers if they pay their bills in advance. The offer has been uploaded by the department on its website www.pspcl.in and is also being circulated in social media. A comparison between PSPCL’s offer and the rates offered by the banks on deposits has also been put out, which is catching the customer’s attention.According to the PSPCL notice, the “Golden opportunity to earn lucrative returns by advance payment” scheme has been issued by the chief engineer (commercial). The notice reads, “In the recent days, banks have reduced interest rates on fixed deposits (about 6% per annum) as well as on savings account (about 3.5% per annum)... In order to help consumers earn a better rate of return, PSPCL offers its consumers of all categories to make advance payment towards their estimated electricity bills up to March 2021 to the extent they can, through digital modes at http://billpayment.pspcl.in and earn interest @1% per month. Thus consumers will earn interest almost @12% per annum (double the rate of interest on fixed deposits).”This offer has certainly got some heads turning, but as of now, be it industrial or domestic consumers, they are undecided on whether to avail this offer or not. Moreover, some businessmen feel that PSPCL will not be able to continue with this scheme, while according to others, it is very risky to pay advance deposit to PSPCL.Speaking on the issue, Harish Kairpal, finance secretary of Knitwear Club, said, “No doubts the scheme introduced by PSPCL is very attractive, but right now due to lockdown businesses are totally shut and we do not have money to even meet our family expenses. How will we be able to give advance deposit to PSPCL? I think only some large industries with extra funds will be able to take benefit of this scheme.”Raj Kumar Singla, president of Fasteners Suppliers Association of Ludhiana, said, “At a time when PSPCL has already gone bankrupt and to cover up its losses and meet its expenditures it is constantly hiking rates of power in Punjab, it’s very risky to park one’s hard-earned money in the department, which is already known for slapping one charge or another on various pretexts on consumers.”Former president of United Cycle and Parts Manufacturers Association, Inderjit Singh Navyug, said, “This scheme will not be successful, as already there is huge shortage of funds with the industry. Only few domestic consumers can come forward to avail this, which will not fulfil the goal of PSPCL to collect funds in advance. I do not think any businessman is going to show interest, as no one knows what will happen when activities resume post lockdown.”Firm deposits Rs 10cr A Mandi Gobindgarh company, M/s Oasis Enterprises, has deposited Rs 10 crore as advance electricity bill to take benefit of the scheme. Chief engineer of Ludhiana central zone Daljit Inderpal Grewal said, “This is a big initiative undertaken by the PSPCL and first of its kind in the country. We have widely publicised this scheme and I contacted the owners of Oasis Enterprises and made them aware of the benefits of this scheme. They happily agreed to pay Rs 10 crore as advance bill. The company can now earn interest on their advance payments. We are working to convince more such business organization to pay and earn interest. This will improve financial position of PSPCL, especially during lockdown.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/pspcl-turns-banker-to-beat-lockdown-blues/articleshow/75129699.cms||Mohit Behl
April 14, 2020||Trichy||Hospitals told to gather information on patients||TRICHY: Government as well as private hospitals functioning outside the containment areas should monitor and collect the details of patients with Covid-19 symptoms and should take necessary action to confirm whether they have been infected by the virus, the monitoring officer and special secretary to government of Tamil Nadu, finance department, Dr R Anandakumar said. Addressing officials from various departments including revenue, health, police at a meeting in Trichy on Monday to chalk out various steps and to implement various measured in the process of combating Covid-19, he stressed the importance of having more vigil at the hospitals functioning on the outskirts of the city and to have a close watch on the patients who visit there with breathing-related problems. “Apart from focusing the identified and contained locality, we should have an overall vigil to identify unnoticed patients with Covid-19 symptoms. Those should be tracked and brought under the quarantine to curtail the spread of the virus,” he further stated. The monitoring officer stressed the need to ensure that people in the home quarantined area get their essentials without any hindrance. ADGP Shailesh Kumar Yadav asked police officials that they should not intercept trucks engaging in moving food grains and agro products. It may be recalled that chief minister Edappadi K Palaniswami announced to form special task teams to monitor preventive measures across the state. R Anandakumar will be the in-charge of Trichy, Ariyalur, Perambalur and Pudukottai districts. Similar meeting was also held in Thanjavur. Commissioner of museum, Chennai, M S Shanmugam, who is the monitoring officer of Thanjavur, Nagapattinam and Tiruvarur districts chaired the meeting on Monday. Addressing the officials, Shanmugam said that number of entry points of the districts should be closed to facilitate the monitoring process in an effective manner.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/hospitals-told-to-gather-information-on-patients/articleshow/75131092.cms||---
April 14, 2020||Pune||Maharashtra: Teachers’ body flays average marks||Pune: The Maharashtra State Junior College Teachers' Association has said that passing standard XI state board students with average marks would lead to increase in number of external examinees for higher secondary certificate (HSC) exams next year. The association members said that the admissions for the first year junior college were delayed last year and classes began in September. As such, students lost almost 90 days of their academic year. The association members said that this resulted in a large number of students performing poorly, which may lead to rise in the number of external examinees. The teachers' association raised the issue with the education department on Monday through a letter. They said that the students of standard XI will face issues with the average marks system and, hence, there should be a blanket promotion of all students irrespective of the marks scored. Coordinator of the association, Mukund Andhalkar, said, "As per the past records, the students generally score less marks in the first-term exam. There are several reasons for the same, such as students joining different streams, some students from the vernacular medium taking admission in English medium, type of teaching changing to lecturing, students travelling long distance to reach college. Hence, going by just the mid-term exam will put students at a disadvantage." Andhalkar said that students take at least six months to adjust to new surroundings. And during these time they give their first exam of standard XI. He said that the issue is not same with standard IX students as they study in the set pattern for nine years and the marks scored in the first-term exam reflect their academic abilities.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/teachers-body-flays-avg-marks/articleshow/75131089.cms||---
April 14, 2020||Trichy||‘PCR equipment in labs could clear backlog of test samples’||TRICHY: While rapid testing process remains a non-starter in the country over the delay in getting anti-body testing kits from China, academicians propose polymerase chain reaction (PCR) equipment in microbiology and biotechnology laboratories to clear backlog of samples across medical colleges to be tested. The state government has extended PCR testing across all government medical colleges in the state to speed up testing. “Polymerase chain reaction (PCR) testing equipment, which is used for swab test, is available in biotechnology department laboratories in at least 5-10 arts and science colleges in every city,” says head of biotechnology and microbiology department, National College Trichy (NCT) M S Mohamed Jaabir. Laboratory equipment are kept idle in colleges due to the shutdown and they can be used for widening testing in the state, he said. “PCR is a basic molecular biology technique and a core area for biotechnology. A research scholar in biotechnology can carry out testing in an effective way if given training for a couple of days,” he said. Real-time PCR equipment in the institutions can be put to use for testing purpose but not many institutions may not have real time PCR, said head of microbiology department, KAP Viswanathan government medical college, S Dhanapal. Asked if testing capability can be enhanced by adding more number of real-time CPR equipment, he said it can be used in medical college where the testing facility is yet to be established, as government medical colleges have been supplied with the equipment by the state government. In fact, the government has initiated the process by getting real time PCR equipment from government veterinary hospitals, he said. Saying that there are too many samples that need to be tested, he said of late, they have been testing more number of samples of those who came in contact with the Covid-19 positive patients. “If these numbers are to be reduced, educational institutions can certainly be approached for testing especially when we are awaiting rapid test kits,” he said. S Sivaramakrishnan, head of biotechnology department in Bharathidasan University, said that the testing is clinical.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/pcr-equipment-in-labs-could-clear-backlog-of-test-samples/articleshow/75131093.cms||Sampath Kumar
April 14, 2020||Trichy||Distancing goes for toss at makeshift wholesale market||TRICHY: Physical distancing is being ignored at the makeshift wholesale vegetable market functioning on the Chennai-Trichy national highway near Palpannai. A section of traders said more than hundreds of traders, grocery shop owners and mobile vegetable vendors have been gathering at the wholesale market without facemasks. The market conducts business from 9pm to 4am the next day. At least 100-150 heavy vehicles arrive at the market to unload the vegetables. “There is no point in maintaining social distancing in retail vegetable markets when it is not followed at the wholesale market. If one wholesale trader contracts Covid-19, definitely 1,000 people will have to be quarantined,” said Akbar Ali, a vegetable trader. While the wholesale market is supposed to sell vegetables only to retail traders, sources said few residents buying vegetables clandestinely from the wholesale market. “There was an accident at the wholesale market on Sunday night in which an elderly trader was severely injured while crossing the NH. Such is the crowd even during 144 in effect. Ambulances are not there at the market locality,” said G Ramachandran, another trader. The wholesale market generates 5-10 MT of waste per day, which indicates that the market sells at least 50 MT of vegetables per day. As a solution, traders urged the district administration to earmark separate spots for wholesale dealers to sell English and country vegetables. Similarly, coconut and tomatoes sales in bulk were sought to be relocated separately to Chennai bypass road near Sanjeevi Nagar so that social distancing can be ensured. “We have been telling the traders to maintain social distancing but they are not listening. We will discuss with the district administration,” a corporation official said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/distancing-goes-for-toss-at-makeshift-wholesale-mkt/articleshow/75131098.cms||Deepak Karthik
April 14, 2020||Bhubaneswar||1971 war veteran dies||Bhubaneswar: 1971 war veteran Lieutenant General (Retd) K P Dhalasamanta died at a private hospital in New Delhi on Monday aged 70. Family sources said he was undergoing treatment for cancer for the last one month. Many prominent personalities, including defence minister Rajnath Singh, chief of defence staff General Bipin Rawat, Army chief General Manoj Mukund Naravane, Andhra Pradesh governor Biswabhushan Harichandan, Union minister Dharmendra Pradhan and BJP national vice-president Baijayant Panda paid their last tributes to Dhalasamanta along with chief minister Naveen Patnaik. “Odisha mourns the loss of one of its most illustrious sons, Lt Gen (retd) KP Dhalsamanta. He was a veteran of 1971 War, Op Blue Star, Siachen & Kargil War. A proud alumnus of Sainik School, BBSR retired as DG of Rashtriya Rifles India’s main counter insurgency force in J&K,” tweeted Naveen Patnaik. Born to former district judge Raghunath Dhalasamanta and mother Swarnamayee Devi in Khurda district, he was product of the first batch of Sainik School, Bhubaneswar. He joined the Army at the young age of 19, and fought in the 1971 war on the eastern front and was awarded the Poorvi Star. He participated in Operation Bluestar and went on to command an artillery regiment in the Siachen glacier. During the 1999 Kargil war, Dhalasamanta was instrumental in helping deploy the 155 mm Bofors guns in difficult conditions. Dhalasamanta spearheaded the military response to the Bihar floods of 2002 and the Rajdhani train accident at Gaya. He retired as director general of the Rashtriya Rifles, India’s premier counter-insurgency force deployed in Kashmir and instrumental in leading, managing and modernising the then 92000-strong counter-insurgency force. He was also among the veterans invited regularly to Bangladesh as a mark of honour for their valiant efforts in the liberation of Bangladesh. He headed the Services Selection Centre at Bhopal, which chose officers into the Army and Navy and interviewed more than 5,000 officer candidates. He remained associated with the Defence Institute of Psychological Research (DIPR) on related issues besides being in the expert panel with the UPSC.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhubaneswar/1971-war-veteran-dies/articleshow/75128703.cms||---
April 14, 2020||Varanasi||Man held for selling liquor from his home in Jaunpur||VARANASI: Jaunpur police arrested a man red-handed, selling liquor from his house in Punjabi Market of Kesari Bazar area under Kotwali police station on Sunday. “A man identified as Manik Sethi had been booked under Section 60 of Excise Act and sent to jail following recovery of dozens of bottles of Indian-made foreign liquor (IMFL) packed in two boxes from his house,” said Kotwali inspector Pawan Upadhyaya. A few traders of Punjabi Market had initially filed a complaint against Sethi at Kotwali police station stating that he had been selling liquor from his house, thereby violating the lockdown norms. However, when no action was initiated, they alerted the ADM (finance and revenue) Ram Prakash, who directed excise department officials and police to look into the matter. A joint team of excise department and police raided the house when Sethi was caught red-handed. A case was registered against him and he was arrested. Rumour had it that Sethi’s father was an office bearer of the minority cell of Bhartiya Janata Party. A banner of Guru Singh Sabha Langar was also displayed at the house. However, when Jaunpur unit chief of BJP, Pushpraj Singh, was contacted on Monday, it came to light that Sethi did not hold any position in any wing of the party currently and was expelled from BJP back in 2000.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/varanasi/man-held-for-selling-liquor-from-his-home-in-jaunpur/articleshow/75129088.cms||---
April 14, 2020||Coimbatore||Coimbatore: 100 residents of R S Puram apartment tested for virus||COIMBATORE: A day after a new Covid-19 cluster in R S Puram where four dwellers of an apartment tested positive was discovered, the health department began tracing their contacts. Officials collected nasal swabs from 100 people residing there and 30 people who attended a funeral. The department is in the process of interacting with the four people to find the places they visited and people they met since March 24, Coimbatore collector K Rajamani told TOI. “We took 800 samples on Monday,” he said. In a bid to ramp up testing, the department tested 500 people on Sunday and 800 on Monday. The ESI hospital on Monday received equipment and kits to conduct Covid-19 tests, authorities said. “Using the combined capacity of ESI hospital, Microbiology Lab and CMCH, we can test 500 samples a day,” said Rajamani. “So, in the next four to five days, we will test 2,000 samples, besides the 1,300 people we tested from Sunday,” he said. With the state government extending the lockdown and Section 144 for another two weeks, the collector said the time will be used to increase testing and to contain the infection spread. “We have adequate beds and ventilators. We have also asked private hospitals to keep separate fever clinics and wards ready for us to use if required. But our focus will be to increase testing and containment of the infection.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/100-residents-of-r-s-puram-apartment-tested-for-virus/articleshow/75131095.cms||---
April 14, 2020||Nashik||7-year-old Covid-19 positive patient tests negative||Aurangabad: Four people, all close contacts of confirmed Covid-19 patients, have tested positive for the respiratory disease on Monday, while a 7-year-old girl confirmed case has tested negative twice for the virus. Those who tested positive for coronavirus on Monday include a 11-year-old girl and 33-year-old woman from Kiradpura. These two are close contacts of a 22-year-old man who tested positive last week. Currently, as many as four residents of Kirdarpura, including a 59-year-old man, have tested positive for Covid-19. "They are being treated at district civil hospital in Chikalthana," civic health officer Nita Padalkar said. A 68-year-old man — father of a 38-year-old man who tested negative for coronavirus on April 9 and resident of Aref Colony — also tested positive for Covid-19 on Monday. Arvind Gaikwad, nodal officer for media interaction GMCH, said. "The man was tested as he had symptoms like fever, breathlessness and cough. The patient is on ventilator at the GMCH and this condition is not improving." The fourth positive case is a 30-year-old woman. She is also admitted to the district civil hospital and is a close contact of a 59-year-old Cidco patient. All tests were done at Virus Research Diagnostic Laboratory at the Government Medical College and Hospital (GMCH). Meanwhile, the 7-year-old girl, who is the granddaughter of the 59-year-old Cidco N-4 patient, tested negative for the second consecutive time. She was under treatment at a private hospital after she tested positive last week. The girl’s grandmother has also been tested twice of which one report has come out as negative while the second report is awaited.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/7-year-old-covid-19-positive-patient-tests-negative/articleshow/75130496.cms||Arpita Sharad
April 14, 2020||Delhi||Delhi court employee dies, judge tests positive||NEW DELHI: Even as Delhi high court and the subordinate courts remain suspended due to the lockdown, the staff members and judges are not untouched by the corona scourge. A court staffer in Saket district court recently died after being diagnosed with the disease, said sources. He had been suffering from other medical complications which worsened after he contracted Covid-19, leading to his death. Since mid-March, the district courts have been working in a severely restricted manner where only urgent cases are being heard. On March 23, the high court had suspended functioning of all the district courts till April 15 due to the 21-day lockdown announced by the Centre to check the spread of coronavirus. In a related development, a sessions judge has also tested positive for novel coronavirus and is undergoing treatment in a hospital. Meanwhile, his house in west Delhi has been sanitised and his family members have been tested. The area was declared a containment zone on Monday. While there is no official communication from Delhi high court, sources said that the judge and his family are cooperating with the government and police authorities. He was serving as a member of a government commission, they added. Meanwhile, HC on Monday directed all its staff and officials to download the “Aarogya Setu” mobile app. In a notification uploaded on its website, the registrar general said: “Aarogya Setu has been developed by the government of India to connect people with essential health services to collectively fight against the pandemic.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/court-employee-dies-judge-tests-positive/articleshow/75131110.cms||Abhinav Garg
April 14, 2020||Coimbatore||Corpn resumes UGD work on DB Road, thanks to lockdown||Coimbatore: With roads free of traffic, the city corporation has resumed its underground drainage (UGD) work on DB Road, which used to be one of the most congested roads. The civic body has been carrying out UGD pipe laying work using minimal manpower and the work is expected to be completed in a week, corporation commissioner J Sravan Kumar said. “We took the decision after discussing the pros and cons. On a normal day, digging the road and laying pipeline is not just time-consuming but also cause inconvenience to people. That’s why we decided to do the work now, when the road is empty due to the lockdown. We will be able to complete the work in a short span of time without causing inconvenience to public,” he said. UGD pipes are laid on the centre of the lane while most of the telecom and power cables are on the edge of the road, Kumar said. “To be on the safer side, we sought the assistance of the government departments concerned. The electricity board and BSNL deployed their teams at the site to carry out repairs if cables were damaged during the work”.” In the last two days, the workers accidentally damaged two telecom cables, which were restored immediately. “After the lockdown was imposed, telecom companies are operating with minimal workforce to carry out maintenance. If any of the main cables are damaged, it would be very difficult to mobilise the workforce and restore the connection,” said a source privy to the project.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/corpn-resumes-ugd-work-on-db-road-thanks-to-lockdown/articleshow/75131100.cms||Nivedha Selvam
April 14, 2020||Vadodara||2,000 beds arranged to treat Covid-19 patients||Vadodara: With the spike in the number of Covid-19 cases in the city and most cases of the viral infection not showing serious symptoms, the administration is gearing up to segregate such cases based on their seriousness. This would also ensure an increase in the number of beds needed for treating such patients. The administration has arranged for 2,000 beds to keep Covid-19 patients. As per the protocol, the facilities have been divided into Covid Care Centers (CCC), Covid Health Centers (CoHC) and Dedicated Covid Hospitals (DCH). Vadodara will now have 1,500 CCC beds, 300 CoHC beds and 200 DCB beds in and around the city. Officer on special duty for Covid-19 Vinod Rao said CCCs will take care of patients who are asymptomatic and do not need intensive treatment. “As per guidelines any facility like a school to a stadium can be used for this. AYUSH doctors can take care of such patients too. We have identified space for 1,000 such beds in the Pioneer campus on Ajwa Road, 150 in an ITI on Ajwa Road, 100 at the High Speed Railway training institute hostel and 200 and the Right Way School in Tandalja,” he said. Rao added that the CoHCs that presently have 300 beds capacity will look into treatment of patients with minor symptoms and will be equipped with oxygen facilities and doctors. The GMERS Gotri hospital will have arrangements for 130 beds for such patients while the Sumandeep and Pioneer Hospitals can accommodate 100 and 70 such patients. For patients with severe syndromes DCHs have earmarked 200 beds. These include 120 beds in GMERS Gotri, 50 in the railway hospital and 30 in Sumandeep Hospital. Rao said that the present lots of beds had been identified projecting the requirements till May 10 as the first phase. The situation will be reviewed and preparations will be made in the second phase between May 10 and May 31. More changes will be made after June 1 if needed.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/2000-beds-arranged-to-treat-covid-19-patients/articleshow/75130508.cms||---
April 14, 2020||Business||Altruist reinstates staff after sacking||Bengaluru: Several hundred employees of BPM firm Altruist India who were sacked were reinstated after TOI contacted the management on the issue. Altruist India had laid off employees handling customer programmes of Airtel and Indian Hotels Company (IHCL). Earlier this month, they informed employees via circulars that both these customers were ramping down their operations and hence they would have limited business from these firms. They also subsequently sent termination notices. But when TOI enquired about the matter with Altruist and Airtel, the customers are said to have intervened to stop the layoffs. Altruist sent a formal email to the employees on Monday withdrawing the termination letter. When TOI asked Altruist about it, a spokesperson said, “Altruist has always believed in fairness and transparency with its employees. Even in the current unprecedented circumstances of Covid-19 lockdown, we have been quick in listening to our employees. You would be aware that ramp up and ramp down of employees is a normal business process in any BPO. The process initiated by us was a part of that same regular business requirement. However, given the current scenario and with the support of our clients, we immediately reversed the notices after we received the voice of our employees.” The spokesperson said they have reassured its employees that it will continue to support them despite the cost challenges faced by Altruist. “Our business processes will continue to function normally and it's business as usual,” the company said. Airtel declined to comment on the matter. Altruist India is a solution provider across BPM, customer management outsourcing and IT services, and has over 14,000 professionals working across 17 delivery centres. Last year, Hinduja Global Solutions sold its customer relationship management (CRM) business to Altruist.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/altruist-reinstates-staff-after-sacking/articleshow/75130518.cms||Shilpa Phadnis
April 14, 2020||Rajkot||These face masks that use new technology could actually kill virus||RAJKOT: Scientists at the Bhavnagar-based Central Salt & Marine Chemicals Research Institute (CSMCRI) have developed a special mask using membrane technology that can give enhanced protection against pathogens, including virus and bacteria. The mask can kill the virus and bacteria that get attached on the outer surface that is made from a special material, scientists told TOI. If this breakthrough research is medically validated, it could be a boon for not just common people but the entire medical fraternity, especially health workers who are in the forefront of battling the coronavirus pandemic. Dr V K Shahi, head of membrane science & separation technology division of CSMCRI, told TOI, “This is a novel idea. The outer coating of is made from material that is anti-virus, antibacterial and anti-fungal. This means that any pathogen attached on the outer surface will be killed. These are superior to the N95 masks considered the best.” Novel masks to cost less than Rs 50The outer porous film is made from modified polysulfone material having a thickness of 150 micro metre. The material can kill any virus having a size of 60 nano metre (NM) and above. The coronavirus has a diameter of 80-120 NM,” he said. At the same time, these masks are cost-effective, the production cost being around Rs 25 to Rs 45 as compared to Rs 100-Rs 300 of the best available in the market. The institute has developed five different variants of the masks having different kind of membranes and coated fabrics with multiple layers in them. CSMCRI plans to distribute these masks for free under its corporate social responsibility (CSR) activity. The mask was developed in about a week and the medical validation is expected in a couple of days.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/these-face-masks-that-use-new-tech-could-actually-kill-virus/articleshow/75130514.cms||Nimesh Khakhariya
April 14, 2020||Coimbatore||Corporation seizes 200kg flowers||Coimbatore: The city corporation seized over 200 kilograms of flowers from vendors at the flower market on the Mettupalayam Road in the city on Monday. The vendors were warned twice not to put up the stalls, a corporation official said. “As flowers does not fall under the essential commodity category, we had asked the vendors to close their business shortly after the lockdown was announced,” he said. “But many of them sought permit to set up the stalls. As the stalls were open, buyers continued to throng the place, ignoring the social distancing norm,” he said. Assistant commissioner of west zone A J Senthil Arasan along with zonal sanitary officer Gunasekaran and police officers inspected the market and seized the flowers.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/corpn-seizes-200kg-flowers/articleshow/75131106.cms||---
April 14, 2020||Bhubaneswar||State may tweak academic calendar of colleges, univs||Bhubaneswar: The government may tweak the academic calendar of colleges and universities in the state in view of the lockdown because the admission process will get delayed by at least two months owing to the inordinate delay in holding examinations and evaluating answer scripts. “According to the calendar, we had planned to invite applications for admissions into different bachelor’s degree and master’s degree courses from the end of April. But owing to the lockdown and the Covid-19 situation, this process may start after June 17,” Asoka Das, vice chairman of the Odisha State Higher Education Council, said. Higher education department sources said Berhampur University had completed it’s examinations before the imposition of the lockdown. The Fakir Mohan University had completed the examinations of most of the courses, but other universities and their affiliated colleges are yet to conduct many examinations. A university has to conduct examinations and evaluation of answer sheets before starting the admission process. Das further said universities had followed the deadline very well this year, but the Covid-19 situation affected the schedule. “We can adjust the loss of two months for the students, who are planning to continue their studies in Odisha. We can even manage the loss of students, who are not in the final year of their respective courses. We are worried about the students interested in pursuing higher education in institutions outside the state. These students will face problems if we do not complete the examination and evaluation of answer papers on time,” Das said. He added that they are all concerned about the well-being of the students instead of forcibly starting the examinations and admission processes. “Life is more important than the admissions. The government will take the necessary decision after the lockdown is lifted,” he said. Das added that the University Grants Commission (UGC) will work out something to solve problems arising owing to the the delay. “I have written a letter to UGC chairman DP Singh requesting him to give us a directive on examinations and national-level admissions,” he added. On the e-learning system, Das said teachers are helping the students get course materials like notes through WhatsApp and other social networking applications. They are also providing them assistance on different chapters of a subject online. “I again appeal to teachers to help students clear their doubts on different subjects over phone or through videocall and other networking applications. The teaching and learning should continue during this lockdown period,” he added. Several students don’t have access to online education or e-learning system owing to poor network in rural areas.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhubaneswar/state-may-tweak-academic-calendar-of-colleges-univs/articleshow/75128715.cms||Hemanta Pradhan
April 14, 2020||Varanasi||Son, daughter of man infected by TJs also test positive||VARANASI: Two more persons, including a woman, tested positive for Covid-19 infection in Azamgarh on Monday, taking the number of cases in the district to six. They are son and daughter of a middle-aged man, who was transmitted the infection by three Tablighi Jamaat event attendees in Chaksitti locality of Mubarakpur area of the district. Azamgarh district magistrate N P Singh said, “Three Tablighi Jamaat event attendees from Andhra Pradesh, Telangana and Ghaziabad staying in Chaksitti area had been detected Covid-19 positive. When we started screening and testing those people who came in close contact with them, a middle aged man living in the same area had also tested positive.” “Following the protocol, we tested nine persons, including four members of his family and his five neighbours, who had been in contact with him. The reports of the samples arrived today. His son and daughter were found infected while the remaining seven tested negative. Both siblings have been admitted in the isolation ward,” added Singh. Total 180 samples, including 72 from Chaksitti and other areas of Mubarakpur, had been sent to laboratory for test and reports of 108 came today. Only these two were found infected while reports of 72 samples are still awaited, the DM added. “Random sampling of people, who had been quarantined either at shelter homes or in their homes after returning from foreign countries or other cities, has also started in the district on large scale,” he said. Health teams have been deployed, especially in Mortinganj, Sanjarpur, Fatima and Atraulia, and have been told to collect samples even of those, who have no symptoms. Besides, 21 teams are conducting door-to-door screening of people and collecting samples of symptomatic, heart patients, people suffering from blood pressure, diabetes and hyper tension in rural areas and nine teams are working in the city.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/varanasi/son-daughter-of-man-infected-by-tjs-also-test-ve/articleshow/75129107.cms||---
April 14, 2020||Varanasi||‘Adopt a locality’ scheme for food distribution begins||VARANASI: To ensure proper distribution of food packets and ration among the needy people during the lockdown, the district administration has now decided to introduce a new scheme – ‘adopt a locality.’ Under this scheme, any NGO or social organization can adopt a locality for the distribution of food packets, said district magistrate Kaushal Raj Sharma. While reviewing the arrangements of food and ration supply, on Monday, it was decided to combine the old arrangement of food distribution with the food cell operation of the Varanasi Development Authority. Earlier, over 50 organisations and individuals were allowed to distribute food and ration in different localities. But, later on realising that the provision was being misutilised in the name of social service by many, the district administration ended it on April 8 and started a centralized food delivery system using the police network. The DM said that it was noticed that the demand of food packets increased from 26,000 food packets to 34,000 per day even after the distribution of ration kits. During the site inspection it was found that even those who received the ration kits or food grains, were taking food packets. To check this practice, the ‘adopt a locality’ scheme has been adopted, said the DM.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/varanasi/adopt-a-locality-scheme-for-food-distribution-begins/articleshow/75129114.cms||---
April 14, 2020||Goa||Goa: Day-1 of survey sees courteous residents, long walks in the sun||PANAJI: The first day of the state government’s house-to-house Covid-19 survey was a mixed bag for the government staffers assigned to collect data — while teachers found most citizens cooperating with them, others, in more rural areas, had to battle the scorching summer covering up to 10km by foot. “No one is refusing to work. The teachers are just afraid for their health and life,” a Ponda-based teacher told TOI. “Now, should these 7,000 teachers remain isolated from their family members for the next 14 days at home? They have been outdoors throughout the day, and will be outside for the next two days too.” One teacher reported being confronted by a panch in Salcete, who asked to be shown the teachers’ authority letter from the government to carry out the survey. Also in Salcete, another teacher reported having come across a family who had been home quarantined. However, since no marking was done by the government at the residence, the teachers were left exposed to the family members. “Teachers faced great difficulty carrying out this work in the summer heat,” one said. “Those allotted rural areas had to walk up to ten kilometers in some cases, as the houses in these areas, though few, are located far apart.” Another teacher, who was allotted an area in Mormugao, said that they feared for their health as those being surveyed in migrant-dominated areas did not maintain social distancing. “The migrants were crowding around us, and language too was an issue while communicating with them,” said one surveyor. “There were no security personnel provided for our safety, to help maintain social distancing, or to tackle the crowd if there was a problem. Most families these days have smartphones, they could easily have filled the form online and the survey could have been carried out only in pockets were residents do not have facilities like smartphones or internet connectivity, rather than risking the lives of hundreds of us teachers.” Teachers also said that in many areas in Goa, there are only elderly residents in the household, with whom it was a challenge to communicate.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/day-1-of-survey-sees-courteous-residents-long-walks-in-the-sun/articleshow/75131639.cms||---
April 14, 2020||Kolkata||Kolkata: Fever survey, sanitisation drive start in high-risk corona wards||KOLKATA: Kolkata Municipal Corporation (KMC) health workers have started visiting households in 27 wards that have been identified as Covid-19 sensitive to check on residents and identify Covid suspects — if any — for quarantine and subsequent confirmatory tests. The KMC team launched the field drive on Monday following two rounds of talks between mayor Firhad Hakim and city police chief Anuj Sharma on logistics and administrative support needed during the survey. The team will, over the next few days, cover households in three wards to primarily identify people suffering from dry cough and fever and also those with respiratory trouble. “Our field workers will visit households in all sensitive areas and collect fever data. If there are a large concentration of people suffering from fever in a locality, it will marked as a red zone. The workers will visit each household to note the health condition of each resident. If we find more symptoms of Covid-19, like breathlessness, we will immediately refer them for a coronavirus test at Covid hospitals,” said a KMC health department official. The department has also been tasked with keeping track of citizens who have been quarantined at home in these sensitive neighbourhoods and inquire about their health. “We have asked health workers to particularly check on those people who have arrived from Covid-affected countries or from other states that are worse hit,” the official said. Meanwhile, the solid waste management department has begun a special drive to sanitize sensitive areas. “We are sending our team to clean every lane and bylane in these areas and spray disinfectant, particularly slums where the an infection can spread faster,” said a KMC solid waste management department official. Among the areas that were sanitized on Monday include Taltala, Beniatolla Lane, Beckbagan, Tiljala, Picnic Garden Road, Topsia and Gariahat-Ballygunge area. The KMC social sector department has also started distributing essential commodities like rice, wheat and pulses among people under poverty line. Civic volunteers are being roped in for delivery of the commodities to people’s doorsteps. “In some city slums where Covid-19 positive cases have emerged, we are distributing cooked food,” a KMC official said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/fever-survey-sanitization-drive-start-in-high-risk-corona-wards/articleshow/75130556.cms||Saikat Ray
April 14, 2020||Vadodara||Tea vendor in Godhra tests positive||Vadodara: Alarm bells have started to ring in Godhra after a tea vendor tested positive for COVID-19. The vendor used to sell tea at the busy Jahurpura Market and Agriculture Produce Market Committee (APMC). Sources said the vendor was referred to Vadodara from Godhra after he took ill. His test results on Monday revealed that the man was suffering from COVID-19. The man is a resident of a locality on Dahod Road in Godhra. It has come to light that the man had a tea stall outside Jahurpura Market and an outlet inside the APMC. Sources said the tea handcart at Jahurpura was operational till around the beginning of this month while the outlet at the APMC was functional till Sunday. The APMC has decided to shut the shop in the wake of the development. Health officials are trying to establish an epidemiological link, but it may be a difficult task given the fact that the man met numerous people in a day. The tea vendor is the second person in Godhra to test positive for the virus. The first case was of an elderly man who passed away recently.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/tea-vendor-in-godhra-tests-positive/articleshow/75130520.cms||---
April 14, 2020||Indore||Too many loose ends in IMC’s doorstep delivery||Indore: Indore Municipal Corporation (IMC) authorities claim to have started doorstep delivery of essential grocery items but residents in various parts of city complained about not getting supply. Though the corporation started collecting orders from residents on Saturday, residents of various localities claimed that no one came to their respective areas for the same. “We read in newspapers that IMC is going to start collecting orders, but none of the staff have come to collect orders from us,” complained Satya Narayan, a resident of Pardeshipura. The corporation has roped in as many as 230 store keepers to deliver orders received from all zones of city and it is collecting 20,000-28,000 orders every day. However, most of the store keepers are finding it difficult to deliver orders citing shortage of staff as one of the main reasons behind delay. “I have as many as 2000 pending orders and with a team of some 6 staff, I’m able to deliver a maximum of 250 orders a day. This way it will take at least one week for me deliver all existing orders,” said Sandeep Yadav, one of grocery store keeper of Sukhlia area associated with the corporation. Rakesh, another store keeper of Scheme-114 area said that most of the labourers or delivery boys have gone on indefinite leave due to the ongoing lockdown. “We are helpless and doing our best to deliver orders,” he said.  “We are aware of shortage of staff with grocery stores, and have asked them to attend orders as many as they can,” IMC commissioner Asheesh Singh said. “Things will improve within couple of days. If needed, we would also deploy our own staff to speed up delivery,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/indore/too-many-loose-ends-in-imcs-doorstep-delivery/articleshow/75017904.cms||---
April 14, 2020||Business||Gaja Capital invests in Bansal’s firm; value at Rs 4.3k cr||Bengaluru: Private equity firm Gaja Capital and other high net-worth individual investors have infused over Rs 204 crore in Sachin Bansal’s banking venture Navi Technologies, regulatory documents sourced from Tofler showed, valuing the startup at close to Rs 4,300 crore. Gaja Capital, the first institutional investor in Ratnakar Bank in 2010, is acquiring about 4.8% stake in the company. World Bank arm— IFC— has also proposed a Rs 210 crore investment in Navi Technologies. The investment comes right after Bansal led a Rs 3,000-crore infusion in the startup. The ministry of corporate affairs documents show the Flipkart co-founder is now the managing director of the company. Apart from Gaja, other investors include senior bankers, executives from the financial services and technology sector like former HDFC Bank DMD Paresh Sukthankar and PayU India CEO Anirban Mukherjee. Earlier in January, TOI had reported that Bansal would allocate most of his fortune, from sale of his stake in Flipkart to Walmart, in his new baking venture. Bansal’s investment in Navi earlier this month included Rs 253 crore in cash, Rs 1,636 crore in debt papers of several companies and transfer of his stake in micro-finance firm Chaitanya Rural Intermediation Development Services (CRIDS), whose subsidiary Chaitanya India Fin Credit has applied for a banking licence. To strengthen his banking application prospects, Bansal has roped in former RBI director and top ICICI Bank executive—Nachiket Mor— as a board member. Meanwhile, Bansal has acquired DHFL Insurance and Essel Mutual Fund for a wider play in insurance and asset management.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/gaja-capital-invests-in-bansals-firm-value-at-rs-4-3k-cr/articleshow/75130542.cms||---
April 14, 2020||Vadodara||Seven booked for travelling to Waghodiya from Mumbai during lockdown||Vadodara: Seven people from Mumbai were booked at Waghodiya police station on Sunday for allegedly coming to Sangdol village in Waghodiya taluka of Vadodara district during lockdown. Police said the accused are natives of Sangdol village and are settled in Bhayander of Mumbai. “We had received information from the sarpanch that seven people had arrived in the village on April 9 and so we went to check along with health workers,” said a police official. On being questioned, Babar Harijan, Ajay Harijan, Jitu Harijan, Satish Harijan, Indu Harijan, Sangita Harijan and Aarti Harijan said they had come to Sangdol on March 18. “Travelling from one place to another place during lockdown is a punishable offence since it violates public notification. They did not have any evidence to support their claim that they had arrived in the village before lockdown came into effect and so we have lodged an offence against all of them,” the police official said. Cops have sought call detail records and mobile phone locations from mobile companies to ascertain their claims.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/seven-booked-for-travelling-to-waghodiya-from-mumbai-during-lockdown/articleshow/75130529.cms||---
April 14, 2020||Rajkot||Two more discharged in Saurashtra||Rajkot: Two more coronavirus patients - one each in Rajkot and Bhavnagar - were discharged on Monday. Dharti Hapalia, a 33-year-old woman was discharged from a private hospital in Rajkot. She is the seventh patient of Rajkot city to recovered from the infection. Dharti was admitted on March 26 and tested positive the next day, immediately after her husband Rakesh too was found infected. Rakesh, was discharged last week. He was infected by his friend Mayur, who was discharged two days ago.In Bhavnagar, 35-year-old woman Jahida Nagori was allowed to go home from Sir T Hospital where she was admitted on April 4. She is a resident of Jamnakund area.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/two-more-discharged-in-saurashtra/articleshow/75130524.cms||---
April 14, 2020||Thiruvananthapuram||KU researchers’ union launches online lecture series||Thiruvananthapuram: With days in academic calendar passing by, research scholars have decided to utilise the lockdown time to study online. The Kerala University Researchers' Union has started ‘online academic lecture’ series on its Facebook page. Teachers, experts and research scholars themselves are conducting classes on various subjects. The videos with less than 30 minutes duration are uploaded every alternative day by representatives of the union. The videos may be a lecture or a presentation on subjects with voice-over. “Productive use of holidays was the idea behind online lecture series. We received a circular that classes will remain closed for summer break from March 23 to May 23. Our examinations were scheduled to be held in April and we are not sure about extension of academic calendar due to Covid-19 scare. So, remote learning is a good option for scholars to continue their classes,” said Ilfa K N, research scholar and chairperson of researchers’ union. The collective is receiving good response from people for the initiative. However, network issues and editing the videos remain a challenge for the representatives. “The slow network is the only issue with online classes. Teachers are very supportive. Many teachers had prepared materials for their classes, which they shared with us. And some teachers prepared materials on their subject based on our request. Initially, we started with general topics related to research such as ‘avoid plagiarism and improve scientific writing’ and methodology. Later, subject based topics such as articulatory phonetics for MA Hindi syllabus and development communication were included. More such videos will be uploaded in the coming days,” added Ilfa. The collective plan is to upload lecture videos till classes resume after summer break.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/thiruvananthapuram/ku-researchers-union-launches-online-lecture-series/articleshow/75129784.cms||---
April 14, 2020||Varanasi||Man in Gorakhpur booked for refusing food cooked by Dalit pradhan||GORAKHPUR: Police registered a case against a 35-year-old man in Kushinagar as he refused to eat food at the quarantine centre cooked by a Dalit village head. Police, after conducting investigation, registered an FIR against the man under the SC/ST Act on Monday. Reports said Siraj Ahmad, a native of Bhujouli Khurd village under Khadda police station in Kushinagar district, had returned from Delhi on April 29, and was staying at the quarantine centre at the village primary school along with other four people. On Friday, village head, Lilawati Devi, in absence of the cook, prepared food in the quarantine centre for all the five people but Siraj refused to eat it. The village head lodged a written complaint with the police on Friday and also informed sub-divisional magistrate Desh Deepak Singh and block development officer Ramakant. SHO Khadda police station, RK Yadav said that a case against Siraj was registered under the SC/ST Act. On Saturday evening, Vijay Dubey MLA went to the house of village head and asked her to serve him food cooked by her. “Untouchability is a social evil that cannot be tolerated at any cost”, the MLA said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/varanasi/man-booked-for-refusing-food-cooked-by-dalit-pradhan/articleshow/75129177.cms||---
April 14, 2020||Coimbatore||Social distancing norms thrown to wind at banks||COIMBATORE: Banks in the city that opened after three days saw heavy rush on Monday, with people not following personal distancing and other safety measures. Most of the people were beneficiaries of the Pradhan Mantri Jan-Dhan Yojana (PMJDY), who had come to withdraw the Rs 500 assistance from their accounts. There were also unorganised workers, who wanted to check whether their accounts were credited with the Rs 1,000 assistance. Several of them were seen at the branches of the nationalised banks at Town Hall, Oppanakkara Street, Singanallur and Vadavalli. While some banks insisted on social distancing and using hand sanitizers, it was not followed at other places. “People were standing very close to each other in the bank at Town Hall,” said a source. R Maheswaran, district secretary of the Bank Employees federation of India (BEFI), said after the three-day holiday and with Tuesday also being a holiday, people rushed to banks to withdraw money. “People were anxious to withdraw the money, which led to the rush in many bank branches across the city,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/social-distancing-norms-thrown-to-wind-at-banks/articleshow/75131113.cms||---
April 14, 2020||Hyderabad||CM flags concern, wants full glare on Hyderabad||HYDERABAD: With coronavirus cases seeing a spike particularly in Hyderabad, chief minister K Chandrasekhar Rao has directed the officials to shift gears and turn their focus on Greater Hyderabad by dividing the city into special zones and appointing special officers. As many as 267 cases out of 592 cases reported in Telangana are from GHMC. Of this, 51 patients have recovered. The CM expects the officials to work out a different strategy as there are higher chances of the disease spreading in the city. He wants Hyderabad divided into 17 units with each unit having officers from health, police, municipal and revenue departments. “For Hyderabad district, there is only one DM&HO. Now, every unit should have a senior health officer to monitor the situation,” KCR said at a review meeting with health minister Eatala Rajender and senior officials on Covid-19 on Monday. He said the vulnerable areas had already been divided into 246, including 126 in Hyderabad, containment zones (hotspots). “People residing in should not be allowed to venture out at any cost and outsiders should not be allowed inside. A special police officer should be made incharge for each hotspot along with other nodal officers. All essential commodities will be supplied at the residents’ doorstep in the hotspots,” the CM said. The CM said with positive cases rising, officials should implement lockdown strictly. “On Monday alone, 32 positive cases and one death were reported in the state. There has been a surge in Covid-19 cases in the country and neighbouring states like Maharashtra,” he said. Health officials should be more vigilant and gear up to face the situation by keeping labs and hospitals ready. He said they have the infrastructure to conduct 1,000 to 1,100 tests in one go and asked municipal administration and health ministers to review the situation on a daily basis. He again made an appeal to people to stay indoors.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/cm-flags-concern-wants-full-glare-on-hyd/articleshow/75130552.cms||Koride Mahesh
April 14, 2020||Pune||Pune: Wholesale grocery & jaggery market to reopen tomorrow||PUNE: The Poona Merchants’ Chamber on Monday decided to reopen the wholesale grocery and jaggery shops from Wednesday. Popatlal Oswal, the president of the chamber, told TOI, “We had a detailed discussion about issues with the district administration as well as the city police. Both the authorities have promised us that no employee having an identify card issued by the district authorities, would face problems at checkpoints from the police.” He said, “Our goods carriers, which come from different states, will also be permitted to commute on the city roads for supplying and delivering material to our shops. Since our major concerns have been addressed by the authorities, our members have agreed to open the shops from April 15.” About 550 wholesalers of grocery items and jaggery are members of the Poona Merchants’ Chamber. They had decided last week to shut operations from Monday as their employees and staffers were allegedly harassed by the police at checkpoints across the city. Oswal said, “The closure had an adverse impact on the grocery markets immediately across the city. Owners of some grocery stores had started selling many essential commodities like pulses, edible oil, groundnuts and grains at higher prices citing there was inadequate supply. The chamber’s endeavour is to change this and bring the prices within the normal range.” Pune police commissioner K Venkatesham said, “The operation of the grocery market is necessary to make all grocery items available. The city police will extend all support to the chambers’ employees. We have given instruction to the in-charges of our police stations to allow the staffers (of the wholesale shops) after checking their credentials.” Sachin Nivangune, the president of the Pune District Retail Merchants Association, said, “Once our shopkeepers get adequate grocery items from the wholesale market, the prices will reduce. This will maintain the demand and supply chain as well as help control prices.” Submarkets to open soon: APMCThe Agriculture Produce Market Committee (APMC) authorities held a meeting with commission agents and traders on Monday. BJ Deshmukh, the chief administrator of the Market Y, said, “We shall soon restart the sub-markets of vegetables and fruits at Khadki, Uttanagar, Manjri, Moshi and Khadki in the coming days. We are discussing logistics and administrative issues with the authorities concerned and we are confident about resolving them so that we can make vegetables and fruits available.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/wholesale-grocery-jaggery-market-to-reopen-tomorrow/articleshow/75131115.cms||---
April 14, 2020||Aurangabad||City NGO makes rare compilation of urdu version of Ambedkar books||Slug: Ambedkar JayantiAurangabad: A city-based NGO has made a rare collection of urdu version of books and speeches of Bhimrao Ambedkar available ahead of the Ambedkar Jayanti on Tuesday. “Due to lack of literature in urdu many people are often deprived of the works and life of great men and women,” said Mirza Abdul Qayyum Nadvi, founder, Read and Lead Foundation. Nadvi has been collecting literature about the social reformer for the last several years. “During my visit to the International Book Fair in New Delhi, I found a 5-volume edition of ‘Writings and Speeches of Dr Babasaheb Ambedkar’ in Urdu. I had immediately secured a copy,” he said. He said that the edition is precious and hardly anyone would have the copy in Aurangabad. “The number of books on Ambedkar published in Urdu is very less and the ones which are published are rarely available,” said Nadvi, who specialises in preserving literature. Being the chairman of the drafting committee of the constitution, Ambedkar’s role is deemed significant in bringing out the Constitution of India. The NGO also has a hard copy of Urdu version of Constitution of India as amended up to July 1, 2013. Last year, the urdu monthly ‘Bacchon ki Duniya’ published by National Council for Promotion of Urdu language (department of higher education, ministry of human resource development, Government of India) published a special edition on the contribution of B.R. Ambedkar, his life and struggle. The NGO distributed 5,000 copies to the school children for free. According to the social worker, these books are documents and are crucial for those conducting research on Ambedkar in Urdu. Though the books are not available for sale, Nadvi said that if anyone is is interested he can arrange for more copies so as to propagate the true story of B.R. Ambedkar.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/city-ngo-makes-rare-compilation-of-urdu-version-of-ambedkar-books/articleshow/75130523.cms||Arpita Sharad
April 14, 2020||Aurangabad||Sanitation workers found cleaning drains sans protective gear in Beed||Aurangabad: Eight to nine workers were found manually lifting waste from roadside drains and loading it into a tractor without protective gear like masks, gloves or gumboots at the stadium road in Beed city on Monday. A similar scene was witnessed at Beed’s Karanja area, where around 15 workers were engaged in the same job without any protective gear. The sanitation workers’ saga in times of coronavirus pandemic raises serious questions about who is responsible for it. Obviously, the Beed municipal council. Ali Asgar Maimoon, a local resident, said, “During the lockdown, there are fewer people out in streets and less vehicular movement, so the Beed municipal council has ample opportunity to clean up the city, but the safety aspect cannot be ignored.” He, however, said that the civic body compelling the sanitation workers to work without safety gear is inhumane. “The civic body is known to be ignorant in providing safety gear to the sanitation workers in the past, but during the pandemic, it is even more necessary to provide to follow such rules.” When contacted by TOI, municipal council chief officer Utkarsh Gutte said that the civic body is providing gloves, gumboots, masks and sanitiser to all its sanitation workers. When he was informed about the ground reality, Gutte said that he goes on rounds and all sanitation workers were found to have all required gear. He was sent a video of the workers working in unhealthy conditions contradicting his claim, but there was no response. WHO guidelines clearly mention that sanitation workers face occupational hazards of contracting infections, hence, they should be provided with gloves, gumboots and protective clothing.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/sanitation-workers-found-cleaning-drains-sans-protective-gear-in-beed/articleshow/75130568.cms||Arpita Sharad
April 14, 2020||Pune||Pune: Helpline for hassle-free transport of veggies, fruits||PUNE: The state agriculture marketing board has set up a dedicated helpline number for transporters, farmers and farmers’ groups to facilitate hassle-free transport of vegetables and fruits to the city. The board has asked the transporters with three-wheeler tempos and pickup vans, often involved in movement of these essential commodities to the city, to register their details at the helpline number 1800-233-0244. The board will help establish link between the transporters, farmers and farmers’ groups to facilitate the goods’ transportation. Sources in the marketing board claimed that in the past few days the department received many calls from farmers seeking help in transporting their produce to the city. The farmers’ groups have tied up with transporters to send vegetables to cities. An official from the marketing board said, “Many individual farmers not attached to the farmers’ groups also want to send their produce to cities. They will be able to get the transport facilities through the helpline. The board will facilitate both farmers and transporters. The transporters will have to provide their details to our helpline. We shall link them to the farmers. The transporters will have to get all the required passes from the local administration.” The board said it was up to the farmers and the transporters to fix the transportation charges and other details. The board earlier appealed to the transporters to avoid overcharging in this challenging situation. Demand for passes The State Goods and Passengers Transport Organisation has demanded identity cards or passes to avoid hassles during the transportation of food items and vegetables. Baba Shinde of the transporters’ body said the market committees should issue passes or identity cards to avoid confusion because most of the vehicles were going to wholesale markets.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/helpline-for-hassle-free-transport-of-veggies-fruits/articleshow/75131120.cms||Sarang Dastane
April 14, 2020||Allahabad||Man threatens MLA over phone, held||PRAYAGRAJ: A man was arrested for allegedly threatening an Apna Dal (Sonelal) MLA over phone in Mauaima on Monday. The accused was identified as Dilshad Ahmad alias Kalloo (23) and is a resident Sisai Sipah village. According to reports, the accused was an aide of Soraon MLA Jamuna Prasad, but the two later had a falling out over their difference. During interrogation, the accused told the police that he was earlier associated with Apna Dal (S) and was close to the MLA. However, he later parted ways with the Prasad and his party to join Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP). Ahmad was also charged of uploading derogatory remarks against the MLA and anti-national comments on social media. ASP (Soraon) Ashok Venket K said the Soraon MLA lodged an FIR against Ahmad with Mauaima police under sections 153A, 295A, 298, 505 (2), 504 and 506 of the Indian Penal Code (IPC), section 3 (2) V (A) SC/ST Act and, section 67 of the IT Act on Sunday evening. Ahmad was later arrested in Mauaima area on Monday and sent behind bars.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/allahabad/man-threatens-mla-over-phone-held/articleshow/75129251.cms||---
April 14, 2020||Coimbatore||Wary of action, NGOs curtail food distribution||COIMBATORE: Confusion reigned among NGOs in the city in the wake of the state government order saying their volunteers should not be distributing food directly to the needy. Though the government order issued on Sunday was followed up with a clarification that NGOs are not barred from distributing but were only asked to do so under the guidance of officials, they cut down the quantum of food distributed on Monday. Several smaller NGOs and good Samaritans stayed away from distributing food as their helplines kept ringing seeking food. The Emergency Food Response Team, an umbrella body of various NGOs in the city coordinated by No Food Waste and C4TN (Coimbatore for Tamil Nadu), had to cut short the number of plates served. Prasanna Kumar, an organiser of C4TN, said on an average, they were serving 12,000 plates of lunch every day. “But on Monday, we served only 6,000 plates to the most-needy. We didn’t want people to go hungry.” Only five of the 15 kitchens of EFRT functioned on Monday after the order left the volunteers with uncertainty. The helplines of NGOs started receiving calls from Sunday evening as soon as the news of the order prohibiting direct distribution of food flashed on televisions. “There was lot of confusion. Several people were worried if they would continue to get food,” said an activist. Calls from apprehensive people seeking food continued till Monday afternoon. “So, we rerouted the calls to the government helpline on Monday,” he said. The volunteers had to short-list the most-needy beneficiaries and leave out those who can manage to find alternative food sources. Founder of No Food Waste Padmanaban Goapalan said there was a meeting with corporation officials on Monday where it was decided to keep two kitchens in each of the five zones of the city operational from Tuesday. “It is good to have nodal officers to ensure social distancing at distribution points and curtail random people from cooking food without supervision and venturing out in the name of food distribution.” “While we will continue to serve the needy, we have decided to avoid containment zones from Tuesday,” Padamanaban told TOI.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/wary-of-action-ngos-curtail-food-distribution/articleshow/75131119.cms||Mayilvaganan
April 14, 2020||Allahabad||Trans-Ganga & Yamuna areas ahead in breach||Prayagraj: More cases of lockdown violation were registered in city areas compared to trans Ganga and Yamuna areas in Prayagraj. A total of 191 cases of violation have been registered since the beginning of lockdown. While 89 cases of violation surfaced in the city, 56 and 46 cases were registered in Trans Yamuna and Trans Ganga areas respectively. Within city limits, 26 cases were registered in Shivkuti, followed by 17 in Dhoomanganj, 12 in Mutthiganj, nine in Khuldabad, five in Shahganj, four in Cantt, three each in Kotwali, Kareli, Civil Lines, Kydganj, and Colonelganj, and one in Georgetown. In Trans Yamuna area, 22 cases were registered in Naini, followed by eight in Manda, seven in Ghurpur, five in Khiri, three each in Shankargarh and Meja, two each in Lalapur, Kaudhiyara, Bara, and Koraon. Industrial Area and Karchana haven’t registered any case of violation so far. In Trans Ganga area, seven cases each were registered in Soraon and Nawabganj, followed by six in Sarayinayat, five each in Mauaima and Phulpur, five each in Baharia and Utrav, three each in Jhunsi and Tharwai, one each in Holagarh and Handia. No case was reported at Saraymamrez police station. As per Prayagraj SSP Satyarth Anirudh Pankaj, of the total 191 cases, 111 were registered under Section 188 (violation of Section 144 of CrPc), 62 cases under Sections 188 (violation of norms), 269 (acting negligently and likely to spread the infection of any disease dangerous to life) and 270 (malignant act likely to spread infection of disease) of IPC.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/allahabad/trans-ganga-yamuna-areas-ahead-in-breach/articleshow/75129204.cms||---
April 14, 2020||Business||Malls request govt to extend moratorium on bank loan||Bengaluru: Many of the biggest mall operators in India, including DLF, Nexus Malls and Phoenix, came together on Monday under the umbrella of the Shopping Centre Association of India (SCAI) to urge the RBI and the government to extend the moratorium on payment of bank loans by 9-12 months. All malls have been shut since the lockdown began, and retailers in those malls are not in a position to pay rents because their outlets are shut. This in turn makes it difficult for the malls to pay the banks. About 85% of a mall’s revenue is dependent on rentals. “Shopping centres, which is the infrastructure of organised retail, is at stake,” said Amitabh Taneja, chairman of SCAI. “When a mall goes operational, you typically discount leases with banks. The developer takes construction finance from a bank and it is then converted into lease rent discounting (LRD) which is then paid like an EMI for 8-9 years. With the cash flow disrupted, it has now become a challenge,” said S Raghunandan, commercial president of Bhartiya City. LRD is a financing mechanism under which a term loan is offered against rental receipts derived from lease contracts with corporate tenants. The owner of the property gets debt financing based on the discounted value of the future rentals and the underlying property value. The SCAI wants banks to extend the period of payment so that the loans are not classified as NPAs. It has also urged immediate attention towards granting GST rebates to offset the losses on account of and for the period of closure of business. Since GST needs to be deposited immediately upon raising of invoice, corresponding payments are likely to be delayed, resulting in an additional cash flow burden on shopping centres, the organisation said. It has also urged provision of short-term financing for a period of 6 to 12 months, at lower interest rates, to meet the increased working capital requirements. “For a mall the key income is rent, which has to support both debt repayments and pay for employees and other fixed costs. Hence it is imperative that we receive the rentals on time," said Dalip Sehgal, CEO of Blackstone-owned Nexus Malls.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/malls-request-govt-to-extend-moratorium-on-bank-loan/articleshow/75130580.cms||Avik Das
April 14, 2020||Vadodara||4 of family flee red zone, booked||Vadodara: Four persons from Vadodara city including two from red zone of Nagarwada were booked on Monday for travelling to Hanumanpura village of Waghodiya taluka. This is the second incident within two days wherein people from the red zone are managing to escape to the rural areas in Vadodara district. Cops from Waghodiya police station said that some persons from Hanumanpura village had informed police control room on Monday afternoon that some persons from Nagarwada had come to the village and were refusing to go back. Based on the information, police went to Aashray Vatika Society where the four persons Haresh Tadele, his mother Alka Tadele, sister Dipali Parmar and brother-in-law Akshay Parmar had arrived. “They had their own house in the village where they had arrived. The accused did not inform how they managed to get out of the red zone and travel all the way to Waghodiya,” said a police official. Haresh and his mother Alka live in Navi Dharti in Nagarwada and his sister and brother-in-law live in Navayard. All four of them were sent back to Vadodara and the local health authorities were informed about them. Police sources said that they had come to Hanumanpura as the number of cases especially in Nagarwada were spiralling.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/4-of-family-flee-red-zone-booked/articleshow/75130564.cms||---
April 14, 2020||Rajkot||246 fined for not wearing masks||Rajkot: As many as 246 people were penalised for not wearing masks in public places by officials of the Rajkot Municipal Corporation (RMC) on Monday, the first day after the civic body issued the notification in this regard. RMC has made it mandatory for people to cover their faces in public places. RMC staff and police personnel have been deputed on major roads to collect fine of Rs 1,000 from first time offenders and also get name, address of the person with valid ID card. TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/246-fined-for-not-wearing-masks/articleshow/75130562.cms||---
April 14, 2020||Kanpur||Virtual classes help students not lag behind in studies||KANPUR: At a time when schools and other educational institutions are closed following lockdown in the country, the schools of the city have taken technology route to impart education. Most of the city schools are ensuring that classes are conducted through WhatsApp or YouTube. Also, several educational apps are being used to educate students. Students of Delhi Public School, Sir Padampat Singhania Education Centre and other schools have drafted time tables according to which students are taught. “The school was prepared to continue with unhindered academics even before the restrictions were imposed”, said the school’s principal Bhaawna Gupta while talking to TOI. “An online time table was designed to ensure one hundred percent participation. A guideline regarding its initiation and cloud meetings was also posted. The teachers were instructed to work from home and create Google Worksheets. Online lesson plans and syllabus too were shared with students and parents in all classes”, she added. Apart from teaching through Zoom app, all teachers are sharing topic-based videos and links for better understanding. Furthermore, online portals like Khan Academy too are widely used to comprehend the nuances in mathematics and science. Co-curricular activities like yoga, art, craft, blog writing, drawing, etc. too are promoted using the online programs. Shanu Tiwari, a mother of student of DPS Kalyanpur branch said that virtual classes begin at 8:45 am where first attendance is held which is followed by a class. “A Youtube link is then posted in the group which is to be clicked and the lecture is to be attended. The student then is required to complete an exercise after the virtual class”, said Shanu mother of student Ishanvi. She said that the virtual classes have been going on for the past one week.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kanpur/virtual-classes-help-students-not-lag-behind-in-studies/articleshow/75131130.cms||---
April 14, 2020||Thiruvananthapuram||NHAI approaches dist admin for nod to start pending works||Thiruvananthapuram: National Highways Authority of India (NHAI) has approached district administration for relaxation in lockdown norms so that they could start pending maintenance works.  NHAI has handed over the letter to district administration on Monday. The highways authority has to do periodic maintenance works for Kazhakoottam–Karode national highway stretch and Kazhakoottam flyover. NHAI is also worried over the delay in project completion due to the lockdown. Sources said that NHAI has to complete some works, which could otherwise pose a road-safety risk.  “Some portions are dug up for piling works for the Kazhakoottam flyover, which have to be covered properly to avoid accidents. Watering of avenue plants and other maintenance works have to be conducted on a periodic basis,” sources said. Though several migrant labourers have left the state before lockdown, NHAI has been keeping their labourers in the city for the continuity of works. “The contractors are taking care of the needs of the labourers by providing them food and accommodation. Labour department has conducted inspection to check that they are being given necessary items,” sources said. Meanwhile, NHAI is worried over the delay as the lockdown has affected its two most productive months – March and April. “The maximum amount of works is happening in these two months. By mid-May, the state will start experiencing rain. The rains will continue in the south-west monsoon and north-east monsoon period till December. This means, we will lose one whole year,” said sources close to the project. The hurdle came at a time when NHAI was planning to hand over completion certificate to KNR Constructions, which has completed most of the works of Kazhakkoottam-Mukkola national highway widening project.  “Except a few portions near Gurunagar and Kovalam Junction, KNR Constructions had completed all major works. The construction of service road in Gurunagar and Kovalam was obstructed by residents. If this continues like this, NHAI will have to remove these portions from the scope of work of the contractor and reduce the cost for the work. However, it will pose much challenge as it will be difficult to get contractors for works of few portions in the NH,” officials said. Three major contractors – KNR Constructions, which is responsible for widening of Kazhakoottam-Mukkola stretch; L&T Constructions, which is in charge of Mukkola-Karode stretch; and RDR CVCC, which is engaged in construction of Kazhakoottam flyover, are affected by the lockdown. Even during the first few months of this year, NHAI was affected by the shortage of raw materials, as the mining and geology department denied permission for mining.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/thiruvananthapuram/nhai-approaches-dist-admin-for-nod-to-start-pending-works/articleshow/75128764.cms||Jisha Surya
April 14, 2020||Vadodara||Cybercrime cell cops warn citizens against online frauds||Vadodara: Coronavirus pandemic may have brought the world to a standstill but the cyber frauds are still in active mode. Cybercrime cell cops in the city have asked the citizens to not entertain any calls asking for debit card details or one-time password (OTP). The police said that it has learnt that such calls are being made to many people from several numbers. “The government is making announcements of several schemes and money transfers. Cyber frauds are taking advantage of it and making phone calls to unsuspecting customers and asking for debit card details. Some callers are promising relief material to people and then asking for personal as well as bank details,” said Jaydeepsinh Jadeja, DCP (crime). Many citizens fall for such fraud and end up losing money.“Any such call shouldn’t be entertained because your debit card details and OTP are for personal use. The cybercrime cell is also keeping an eye on such frauds,” Jadeja told TOI. The police said that once the lockdown is lifted, many such victims may come forward and file complaints.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/cybercrime-cell-cops-warn-citizens-against-online-frauds/articleshow/75130584.cms||---
April 14, 2020||Aurangabad||Despite Centre’s directive, no food security allowance under mid-day meal in state||Aurangabad: Though the Centre has asked all the states to provide food security allowance to the beneficiaries of the mid-day meal scheme during the lockdown owing to the Covid-19 outbreak, the Maharashtra government has failed to the needful. The central government, on March 20, had underlined the need to offer food security allowance, comprising quantity of grains as per entitlement of the child and cooking cost provision. The chiefs of local self-governing bodies in Aurangabad, Beed and Osmanabad among others have also made written pleas before the state authorities for continuing the mid-day meal scheme. While suspending the scheme, the state government had asked for distribution of remaining stock of grain to the beneficiaries something that has already been done at many schools. "As the country is going through difficult times due to the the Covid-19 outbreak, the state government and union territories are advised to provide cooked mid-day meal of food security allowance, whichever is feasible to all eligible children till the time their schools are closed. The modalities for this purpose may be decided by the respective states or union territories," a letter dated March 20 by ministry of human resource development had said. A city-based school principal said no food security allowance was distributed for beneficiaries of mid-day meal during the month of April. "The state government had asked for distribution of leftover grains corresponding to the month of March. However, beneficiaries have not received any food security allowance during almost first half of current month," he said. In his letter, dated April 1, to state education commissioner, Aurangabad Municipal Commissioner (AMC) chief Astik Kumar Pandey sought permission for running the mid-day meal scheme for the benefit of 11,500 students studying in civic-run schools. The civic authorities said that no favourable response has been received from the state yet. When contacted, education officer (primary) with Aurangabad Zilla Parishad SP Jaiswal on Monday said that all instructions by the state government related to mid-day meal have been already followed. "When it comes to offering food security allowance on a sustained basis during the period of lockdown, we have not received any instruction from the state government yet. Even if the Centre has established some communication with the states, we act as per orders from the state government," he said. Maharashtra school education minister Varsha Gaikwad could not be reached for comments.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/despite-centres-directive-no-food-security-allowance-under-mid-day-meal-in-state/articleshow/75130586.cms||---
April 14, 2020||Rajkot||Two found infected in Banaskantha district||Palanpur: Banaskantha joined the list of districts with positive coronavirus cases on Monday with a five-year-old boy and a 50-year-old man found infected.The boy Mahik Vadadliya from Mithavi Charan village that is close to India-Pakistan border in Vav taluka was taken to Deesa from where he was referred to Palanpur Civil Hosptial. His family had returned from Surat on March 24 and they were home quarantined on April 7.All family members and about 30 people with whom the boy came in contact with have been quarantined. The district administration have sealed all the villages within the radius of 8km of Mithavi Charan and intensive health surveillance is on, chief district health officer, Manish Fancy.The 50-year-old man who tested positive was identified as Soma Parmar from Gathaman village, 10 km from Palanpur. His case came to light during the random health examination of people above 50 years old undertaken in the village. Some natives of Gathaman had returned fro Mumbai recently and Parmar’s daughter Savita worked as maid at their house. The total number of cases in north Gujarat has spiked to 19 now.Meanwhile, a man was booked for violating home quarantine in Samepura locality iof Palanpur. Sayabhai Babi Ali, whose quarantine period was to end at 11pm on Sunday, was not found at his house during a check. He had returned from Mumbai on April 1.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/two-found-infected-in-banaskantha-district/articleshow/75130582.cms||---
April 14, 2020||Business||Swiggy starts home delivery of groceries in 125 cities||Bengaluru: Online food delivery platform Swiggy said it has launched grocery services in 125 cities, with over 2,000 outlets, which are being ramped up. Swiggy has already partnered several national brands and retailers like HUL, P&G, Godrej, Dabur, Marico, Vishal Mega Mart, Adani Wilmers, and Cipla. Swiggy is in talks with more kiranas, retail chains and brands for tie-ups to scale up operations. The service is available under the grocery tab on the Swiggy app, and it has also rebranded the concierge service to Swiggy Genie. TOI had reported in its March 27 edition that Swiggy plans to start grocery delivery in up to 150 cities. “While the onboarding process is, typically, physical, this time we had to do it remotely for kiranas and to explain to the delivery partners how these orders need to be treated differently from food. There was a great amount of interest from authorities to launch the service,” said Swiggy chief operating officer Vivek Sunder. Currently Swiggy is delivering food in just 200 cities against 500 cities before the lockdown. While the current overall volumes are “a pale shadow” of the business Swiggy was doing in February, they have improved 50-70% as compared to the first week of lockdown, said Sunder. Grocery services are likely to increase utilisation of Swiggy’s 2.5-lakh-personnel fleet as demand for home delivery essentials across the country has shot up. In states like Uttar Pradesh and Punjab, Swiggy has launched grocery delivery in more cities as compared to food delivery which has been stopped by local authorities during the lockdown. Swiggy’s expansion comes as rival Zomato has also expanded into grocery delivery in over 80 cities last week. Over a dozen other consumer-facing startups have also entered into supplying essentials including Meesho, Box8, Bharatpe, NoBroker, Netmeds and Curefit.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/swiggy-starts-home-delivery-of-groceries-in-125-cities/articleshow/75130589.cms||---
April 14, 2020||Thiruvananthapuram||Here, they don’t just guard the forest||Thiruvananthapuram: On Friday, a team of forest officers took the department boat to reach Puravimala tribal settlement in Neyyar sanctuary where a set of tribesmen with their produce such as tapioca, wild turmeric (kasturi manjal) and banana were waiting for them. The forest officials paid them money and bought all the material. But why? Forest officials under the Thiruvananthapuram wildlife division covering Neyyar, Peppara and Agasthyavanam Biological Park ranges are on a rare mission. Assigned with the task of protecting the forest, wildlife and the tribal community in the area, the officials of the division could not remain mute spectators to the collapse of the community market in the area due to the lockdown. Tribal people from various settlements used to reach Kottoor every Wednesday and Saturday as part of their ‘kanichantha’. But, this year, they couldn’t do so dueto the lockdown. That is when the forest officials led by wildlife warden J R Ani decided for market intervention for the sale of farm products of the tribesmen. “By arranging a WhatsApp group, Vanika, by the Mancode tribal eco development committee, we were able to arrange sale of products in the city on Wednesdays and Saturdays. After distributing among the locals, the remaining products were sold to several houses, including that of the district collector in the city, last Wednesday. We purchase the products from people in these settlements by giving market value of the products and then sell it in the city. While there is huge demand for most products such as jackfruit, banana etc, some products such as cashew and wild turmeric have no takers,” Ani said. Range deputy warden Satheeshan, section forest officer Sinu Kumar and beat forest officer Gopika Surendran are leading the initiative. In addition to the sale of the products, forest officials are active in providing all emergency support to the tribespeople by providing logistics such as boats and jeep. Forest officials said though they have ensured availability of rice, pulses and provisions, there is a shortage of vegetables in the area. “We have started a pickle making unit at Kottoor, from where pickle is distributed in the tribal settlements and community kitchen.” With the support of Tejus, an organisation of IT professionals in Technopark, and social worker Sunitha, the forest officials had handed over sanitary napkins to women in the tribal settlements. The napkins were arranged after women forest officials of Agastarkoodam range noticed shortage of sanitary materials for women in the settlements.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/thiruvananthapuram/here-they-dont-just-guard-the-forest/articleshow/75129831.cms||---
April 14, 2020||Coimbatore||Two doctors test positive, take Covid-19 tally to 126||COIMBATORE: Two post-graduate doctors from Coimbatore Medical College Hospital who were deputed to ESI Hospital almost three weeks ago have tested positive for Covid-19. Five others from the district also tested positive, taking the total number of cases on Monday to 126. The source of infection is under investigation because hospital authorities said both doctors did not treat any Covid-19 patients. Though the number of cases recorded in the district on Monday was relatively lower at 7, it did send a shockwave through the public health department and district administration. The two doctors, aged 29 and 25, were deputed to ESI Hospital from CMCH to man the outpatient ward. “They last saw patients around 10-12 days back... they have been quarantined. Since they had fever, they were tested and it turned out positive,” said ESI dean Dr Nirmala. Out of the other five patients, while two were family members of delegates who attended the New Delhi conference, one of them is the daughter of the 70-year-old man from Palakkad who died on April 10. The other two patients include a five-year-old boy from Kinathukadavu and a 61-year-old man from Vadamadurai. The 61-year-old man, a personal assistant of a former MP, had a travel history to Delhi and returned on March 24. “However, the worrying factor was that he was not under home quarantine and often visited public places, including the district collectorate. Tracing his contacts is going to be an uphill task,” said a senior health department official. The source of infection of the minor boy from Kinathukadavu’s could not be traced as of Monday. He is the son of a conservancy worker and was taken to the local health centre with cold and cough. “Since we began testing all cold and cough cases, we tested him and found him positive,” said Dr G Ramesh Kumar, deputy director of public health. To take immediate measures, the health department has requested the PA’s family and the five-year-old boy’s family to move into ESI for isolation, while they are tested. “Meanwhile, as per protocol we have cordoned off the roads where their houses are located... even if the infection source is not traceable, containing the spread is our focus,” said district collector, K Rajamani. Meanwhile, Tirupur recorded 18 new cases, taking its total count to 79.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/two-doctors-test-positive-take-covid-19-tally-to-126/articleshow/75131129.cms||---
April 14, 2020||Allahabad||Psychologists on call at Covid quarantine centres||PRAYAGRAJ: A clinical psychologist and psychiatrist will now be available at the three quarantine centres set up in Kareli area of Prayagraj to help suspected Covid-19 cases cope up with mental health issues like anxiety and depressions while being in isolation. “Following orders issued by the state government on April 2, there will be clinical psychologists present at all quarantine centres to help people deal with mental health issues. In case citizens have any doubt related to the novel coronavirus pandemic, they can contact the psychiatrists at MLN Divisional Hospital,” said Prayagraj chief medical officer GS Bajpayee. According to reports, more than 100 persons are currently staying at the quarantine facilities. Dr Ishanya Raj and Dr Ajay Kumar Mishra from MLN Divisional Hospital have been roped in for the job. “The age of those who have been quarantined at these centres ranges between 70 years and 10 months. Many of them are experiencing problems like acute stress and mental exhaustion,” said Dr Ishanya Raj, a clinical psychologist posted at MLN Divisional Hospital. “There are schoolkids who want to know when they would be allowed to get out of the centre, so that they can go back to their regular life. Then there is a 21-year-old youth who is eager to know how his mother is managing without him as he is the only earning member of his family,” she added. “We have to keep people motivated, for which a helpline has been launched for those quarantined. Only 35-40% of the people meet me. There are many who are hesitant to discuss their problems in the open. I have told them that they can call me from 9am to 9pm,” she added. Dr Ajay Kumar Mishra said that misinformation about novel coronavirus was to be blamed as well for adding to the mental stress many appear to be undergoing. “A few days back, a woman came to the OPD at the hospital where I work and told me that her husband, who is a primary school teacher, tried to hang himself as he suspected that he had contracted Covid-19. It later turned out it was just a case of common flu,” said Mishra, who is a psychologist in MLN Divisional Hospital. “One has to understand that just because you are experiencing a symptom like a fever, it doesn’t imply that you have contracted novel coronavirus. The lack of information can be a trigger for those suffering from anxiety and stress ,” added Mishra. “I have been asking parents to be more caring, to show that they love their kids, to do away with negativity and be more mature during these times, because such trauma can have a lasting effect on kids’ mental health,” said Raj.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/allahabad/psychologists-on-call-at-covid-quarantine-centres/articleshow/75129297.cms||---
April 14, 2020||Pune||Pune: From mannequins to abandoned vehicles, police turn to jugaad for barricading roads||PUNE: Entrusted with the task of ensuring zero movement of citizens during the lockdown period, police are banking on an assortment of items — from uprooted trees, bamboo and tin sheds to abandoned vehicles, cycles and even mannequins, — to seal the roads. The city police had never before felt the need for barricades in such a large number. At present, the police have in their disposal around 1,500 iron barricades. But the stock seems quite inadequate with the number of roads, lanes and by-lanes they have to block increasing in the wake of the rise in the number of containment areas following the spurt in the Covid-19 cases and casualties. The civic bodies of both Pune and Pimpri Chinchwad and the cantonment boards provide the police with the barricades for making security arrangements during VVIP movements and festivals, regulating traffic and, when needed, maintaining law and order. A visit in various parts of the city revealed that the police have urged the residents to use discarded two- and four-wheelers, deflated tyres and unused handcarts and scrap material for barricading roads, junctions, lanes and by-lanes. Deputy commissioner of police (Zone V) Suhas Bawache said, “We had installed iron barricades at various places to restrict the people’s movement following the coronavirus outbreak. But after the lockdown was enforced and areas such as the peths and Kondhwa were sealed, we started using resources, such as bamboo and tin sheds hired from ‘mandap’ decorators, to barricade the roads. For instance, in Kondhwa, we had initially sealed 19 places. But once the entire area was sealed, we had to block 35 more spots.” Senior inspector Jagannath Kalaskar from the Faraskhana police said, “The use of iron barricades is extensive during Ganapati festival and palkhi procession. Following the Covid-19 lockdown, we also used plastic and foldable barricades. We are now getting bamboo sticks, arches, iron rods and ropes from mandap decorators and Ganpati mandals.” Senior inspector Bramhanand Naikawdi, who is in charge of the Swargate police, said, “We have told the mandap decorators to install tin sheds, pandals and bamboo sticks at 20 points outside the slums and two nakabandi points for effective enforcement of the lockdown. We are also installing signboards at Salisbury Park, Maharshinagar and Mukundnagar, making it clear that the areas will remain open only for local residents.” Inspector Mahadev Kumbhar from the Kondhwa police station said several local residents have on their own barricaded the lanes and by-lanes with bamboo sticks and isolated the places as a preventive measure. “We have also taken help of the police mitra and volunteers for keeping a tab on the interior parts of Kondhwa,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/from-mannequins-to-abandoned-vehicles-police-turn-to-jugaad-for-barricading-roads/articleshow/75131126.cms||Asseem Shaikh
April 14, 2020||Pune||Starry, starry night in city amid the sound of silence without light pollution||Pune: The fuzzy Orion Nebula and six stars in the Pleiades cluster among several stars, constellations and closer planets are in clear sight in the sky over Pune. Tushar Purohit, a member of Akashmitra, said he could spot both and another group of stars easily from his terrace. The lockdown and reduction in air pollution has laid out this wonder, amateur astronomers who observe the night sky said. The clusters are now spotted even in the moonlight and in excess city light, star gazers told TOI on Monday. Amateur astronomer Mayuresh Prabhune, working with city-based Khagol Vishwa, said, many ‘messier objects’ can be observed using small telescopes or binoculars these days. An amateur astronomer also witnessed the conjunction of Venus and Pleiades when he captured it from Prabhat Road, a normally congested area on April 3. Visibility of faint stars depends on the quality of the night sky. Amateur astronomy frequently uses the term light pollution, a combination of air pollution and excess light. “When excess light from street lights and sign boards is scattered through dust particles and pollutants in the air, the night sky becomes brighter, obscuring the visibility of faint stars. For clear and darker night sky, one generally has to go at least 50 km away from the city where air pollution is negligible with fewer lights,” Prabhune said. Khagol Vishwa, Center for Citizen Science, has been monitoring light pollution in Pune and Pimpri Chinchwad for the last 10 days. Volunteers from 27 locations are counting faint stars from specific constellations via astrophotography which needs long exposures to collect more light from faint objects. “Such photography is not possible from the city area, as scattered and surrounding unnecessary light creates noise in these photos. Nowadays, even a few seconds’ exposure from the core of the city like Nal Stop has been showing better results than the period when there was no lockdown,” Prabhune said. Bhushan Karmarkar, founder of Amateur Astronomers’ Group, said they don’t have to visit remote places outside the city any more to witness the spectacular objects in the night sky. “An example is Mizar (Vashishth) and Alcor (Arundhati) from Ursa Major (Saptarshi) constellation. These two stars are very close to each other. Because of increasing light and air pollution, Alcor was earlier not visible from most city areas. During this lockdown, it is clearly visible to the naked eye. Polaris or polestar has also been shining bright in the last few days,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/starry-starry-night-in-city-amid-the-sound-of-silence-without-light-pollution/articleshow/75131138.cms||Neha Madaan
April 14, 2020||Vadodara||Cases surfacing beyond red zones||Vadodara: In a month’s time, Vadodara has emerged as Gujarat’s second city after Ahmedabad to cross the three-figure mark with COVID-19 cases spiralling at an alarming rate. The authorities are now keeping their fingers crossed hoping that the virus does not geographically spread to other localities of the city. After initial detection of sporadic positive cases from Makarpura, Nizampura and Tandalja Road, the city witnessed a spurt of cases from Nagarwada-Saiyedpura area, which was declared red zone on April 5. In fact, of the 108 positive cases that the city had recorded by Monday evening, 93 are from this densely populated stretch. But since last couple of days, cases are also surfacing from localities beyond the two areas – Nagarwada-Saiyedpura and Tandalja – which the officials have declared as cluster quarantine zones or red zones of the city. Three cases have already emerged from Bahar Colony on Ajwa Road. On Sunday night, a 40-year-old woman of Karelibaug tested positive while a 56-year-old man from Kothi Pol near Raopura Tower tested positive on Monday morning. Even as movement of Karelibaug resident is being traced, sources said the female had visited a private hospital in the area where Bhargav Patni, the 27-year-old patient, who passed away on Sunday, was hospitalized for another medical condition before he tested positive of COVID-19. Patni, a resident of Navrang Road in Nagarwada area, was hospitalized in connection to dengue at the private hospital which was visited by Karelibaug resident. The movement of Raopura resident is still a mystery. But considering that the narrow lanes of the old city are closely connected to each other, officials are not ruling out the possibility of the elderly man getting infected due to local transmission. Meanwhile, Patni’s 47-year-old mother became the fourth member of Nagarwada family to test positive. The victim’s father and uncle are already under treatment. Vadodara district collector Shalini Agrawal said apart from Nagarwada, sampling is also being carried out in areas surrounding Jubileebaug and Raopura. Results of samples collected from Tandalja and Mogalwada so far have tested negative.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/cases-surfacing-beyond-red-zones/articleshow/75130595.cms||Prashant Rupera
April 14, 2020||Pune||Pune: Two more die, case count sees largest single-day rise||PUNE: Two more critically-ill patients succumbed to novel coronavirus (Covid-19) associated complications at state-run Sassoon hospital, taking the total casualties in the Pune Metropolitan Region (PMR) to 32. Of the two deaths, one happened on Sunday, but the test results showing Covid-19 infection arrived only on Monday. Both of them had co-morbidity in terms of hypertension and chronic kidney disease. While one of them is a 40-year-old man from Nana Peth, the other is the 50-year-old woman of Kondhwa Khurd. Of the total casualties, one each is from Pimpri Chinchwad and Baramati, which comes in the rural parts of PMR. Besides, 41 fresh cases of the infection were recorded in Pune on Monday, which is the highest positive case count for the region on any single day. Barring three in Pimpri Chinchwad, most of these cases are from the limits of Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC). They are mainly the residents of Bhavani Peth, Guruwar Peth, Tadiwala Road, Nana Peth, Somwar Peth and Kondhwa. The Nana Peth man had complained of breathlessness, following which he was admitted to Sassoon hospital on April 11. He succumbed to the complications on April 12. His throat sample tested positive on April 13. “The man had developed severe respiratory distress. In fact, he was having symptoms for more than four days, but he reported to the hospital only after his condition worsened. He Jwas also a known patient Jof diabetes and was on medication," said a doctor from the hospital. Another victim a 50-year-old woman, resident of Kondhwa Khurd, was admitted to the hospital with complaints of breathlessness and chest congestion on April 9. “The woman had obstructive airway disease and was also on medication for kidney related injury. She was obese. She succumbed to the respiratory complications on April 13,” the doctor said. When it comes to PCMC, the civic body has tested around 850 people so far.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/two-more-die-case-count-sees-largest-single-day-rise/articleshow/75131136.cms||Umesh Isalkar
April 14, 2020||Kanpur||GSVM testing lab starts functioning||KANPUR: The newly setup laboratory for testing Covid-19 cases started functioning in the microbiology department of Ganesh Shankar Vidyarthi memorial (GSVM) medical college here on Monday. Inaugurating the lab, divisional commissioner Sudhir M Bobde said that the lab would be a boon for not only patients of the city but also patients of nearby eleven districts. The samples, which had been so far tested in KGMU and SGPGI Lucknow, would now be tested in the new lab, he said. The commissioner stated that the lab, to operate 24X7, would test 46 samples in five hours and 92 samples in a day. "Our priority is to test maximum samples especially of the hotspot areas free of cost. Necessary regents and other chemicals used in testing should be stored, he added. One more machine would be installed in the district soon, he said. He praised the efforts of doctors and the medical department for their devotion. The health department would soon be equipped with a rapid testing kit, he further said. Dr Aarti Lalchandani, principal, GSVM medical college said that a sample of a suspected case was fetched from KGMU Lucknow and tested on the new RTPCR machine. The test report then was sent to the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) which gave its approval on Sunday. District magistrate Brahmadeo Ram Tiwari, principal of GSVM medical college Dr Aarti Lalchandani, CMO Dr Ashok Shukla, municipal commissioner Akshay Tripathi and other officials were present on the occasion. Meanwhile, a sanitizing tunnel was also set up the Covid-19 ward on Monday which was inaugurated by the district magistrate, Kanpur Nagar. The fully automatic tunnel is equipped with 10 sensor-based nozels. As one enters into the tunnel, the sensor-based nozels start fogging and sanitize a person within 15 seconds. The fully transparent tunnel is also equipped with an automatic sensor-based dispenser to sanitize hands. Kanpur Press Club organized a blood donation camp at a city hospital. As many as 25 journalists donated blood in the camp.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kanpur/gsvm-testing-lab-starts-functioning/articleshow/75131175.cms||---
April 14, 2020||Coimbatore||Postal dept to help deliver medicines||COIMBATORE: The postal department has launched a special helpline for medical shops and distributors, which is expected to reduce queues and enable social distancing. While medical shop owners can call 0422-2305100 for door delivery, distributors can use the service to transport medicines to stores. “We can deliver anywhere within the district within 24 hours. The helpline will be operable from 10am to 2pm for pharmacies and wholesalers,” said senior superintendent of post offices Sudhir Gopal Jakhere, who recently met with the Tamil Nadu Chemists and Druggists Association to offer the service. The medicines should be booked as parcels in the nearest post offices.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/postal-dept-to-help-deliver-medicines/articleshow/75131135.cms||---
April 14, 2020||Pune||Pune: Social distancing goes for a toss as people scramble for essentials||PUNE: Social distancing was conveniently forgotten on a stretch of Salunke Vihar Road on Monday as people jostled to buy vegetables from vendors who had gathered in large numbers. Officers of the Kondhwa police station said that social distancing needed to be practised under all circumstances and they would increase patrolling and take strict action against those disobeying regulations. "When it comes to the sealed areas of Kondhwa, the relaxation of the lockdown is between 10am and 12noon only. However, flexibility prevails in unsealed areas and people can buy essentials between 7am and 11am," Vinayak Gaikwad, senior inspector, Kondhwa Police Station, told TOI. Locals said that the number of vendors selling vegetables along the stretch of the road had increased in the last couple of days. "Even though the number of vendors has increased, people are still crowding. Moreover, it seems that the vendors are also not paying heed to the directions from the police. They have been told to maintain order and not to shout and call customers or try and sell vegetables in a high-pitched voice. However, the same is being done by them which is adding to the chaos and confusion," a local medical shop representative said. Another problem related to setting up of carts by vendors. "They have been told to maintain minimum distance and park by the roadside and not on the road. However, things are like what they used to be before the lockdown with many vendors sitting on the edge of the road and selling vegetables. A number of vendors who used to have permanent stalls in different lanes have shut down. This is resulting in a lot of people coming to the main road to buy vegetables," another source said. "It has been very difficult time for us and we want to sell to maximum customers," said a vendor. A customer, who had come to buy vegetables, said, "I am trying to maintaince distance but too many people are coming on the road. The vegetable stall in my area is closed, so I have come here." Cops pointed out that the patrolling will be intensified in the area. "If people are still disobedient, strict action will be initiated against them. Our men are constantly patrolling the area," Gaikwad said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/crowding-by-vegetable-vendors-and-disregard-to-social-distancing-pose-worry-for-cops/articleshow/75131134.cms||Joy Sengupta
April 14, 2020||Rajkot||Gujarat: Trader caught with 135 mava packs in milk can||SURAT/RAJKOT: Two traders have been arrested in Surat and Amreli for allegedly selling tobacco products, while a paan shop was broken into in Jamnagar.In Kapodra area of Surat, one Jitesh Vaishnavi was arrested when he was going to deliver 135 mava packets to his customer. Vaishnavi was caught from Chikuwadi Road when police stopped him for checking on April 9. “When we checked his milk can attached to his motorcycle, we found 135 packets of mava. Each packet had separate packs of tobacco, betel nut and liquid edible lime,” said an official from Kapodra police station. Vaishanvi said he was going to deliver the mava packets to his friend Hitesh Dabhi. Tobacco products are high in demand in the Diamond City and those addicted to them are ready to pay higher prices. Many paan shop owners are making mava at home or selling other tobacco products through delivery to regular customers. Meanwhile in Gajerapara locality of Amreli, the accused, identified as Jayesh Koladia (40), was arrested on Sunday for allegedly hoarding tobacco products at his residence. “We raided Koladia’s house after receiving a tip-off about him illegally selling tobacco products. We seized bidis, cigarettes, pouches of tobacco, lime tubes and betel nuts, all worth Rs 5,150,” said Jairaj Vala, head constable with Amreli local crime branch. In Jamnagar, a group of unidentified people who were unable to suppress their cravings for nicotine broke into a paan shop at Ram Mandir chowk in Bedi area, and stole 2,400 bundles of bidis and boxes of lime, all worth Rs 29,868 on Saturday night. “The burgled shop belongs to Yogesh Somaiya,” said an official from Jamnagar B division police station.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/trader-caught-delivering-135-mavas-in-milk-can/articleshow/75132030.cms||---
April 14, 2020||Allahabad||Cartoons decode parenting during lockdown||PRAYAGRAJ: From brokering peace between quarrelsome siblings to keeping their child entertained while being forced to stay indoors amidst a lockdown and a pandemic, life for most parents nowadays is busy. And if there’s one thing that most of them are looking for, it would be a guide to ensure that their journey of parenting is indeed stress-free. A Kaushambi-based writer’s cartoons on parenting might be the solution for many such problems. Ankita recently launched an online cartoon series, which guides parents on how to work out the kinks in their relationship with their children. Aiming to bridge gaps in communication, these cartoons advise parents on how to act in tricky situations like those involving food wastage, sibling rivalry, education of children and how parents could do a better job at bringing up their kids. Ankita uploads these cartoons in the form of videos on social networking websites. “It is common for feelings like monotony, irritation and unhappiness to seep in minds as people are confined to their homes during the lockdown. There are times when it might be difficult for parents to understand their child’s behaviour,” said the mother of two. “There are times when the adults themselves don’t know how to react,” she added. “This might be because of family problems, financial constraints or something as simple as a child’s curiosity. Every parent believes that were raised in the right way and they should follow the same strategy with their kids. This might be largely true, but we should understand that there is always scope for improvement in our behaviour.” The writer has penned books on parenting in the past and counsels young parents on the topic. According to Ankita, parents should try to be honest while answering their kids’ questions and not try to impose their opinions on them. “If you feel that a your child is good at something encourage and reward them. Also, take care to acknowledge their feelings. Don’t hesitate to initiate dialogue, if you feel your child is hesitant to do it. And lastly, try become your each other’s friend and never shy away from expressing your affection freely,” she added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/allahabad/cartoons-decode-parenting-during-lockdown/articleshow/75129319.cms||---
April 14, 2020||Coimbatore||If you step out, you risk a 30-min discourse on Covid-19 awareness||COIMBATORE: The city saw major traffic hold-ups on Monday with police stopping vehicles at various points to create awareness on Covid-19. In some parts of the district, vehicles were given a yellow colour-tagged marking with a warning that any vehicle with three such markings will be confiscated. In many parts of the city, including Lawley Road Junction, Singanallur Road Junction and Kavundampalayam Junction on Mettupalayam Road, serpentine queues of vehicles were ubiquitous. “A few cops were creating awareness on Covid-19 for some cars, leading to traffic hold-ups,” recalled a person who was stopped at Lawley Road junction. “ What is the point of keeping shops and bakeries open till 1 am if we cant go to buy what we want?” asked K Naveena, a resident of Trichy Road who was stopped at Singanallur. Later in the day, the police commissioner’s office instructed all cops including inspectors, sub inspectors and constables to be on road patrol and station themselves near at major traffic junctions. According to the circular, every day from 9 am to 9.30 am, from 10.30 am to 11 am, from 12 pm to 12.30 pm and again from 5.30 pm to 6.15 pm police will stop all vehicles at various points and explain them on Covid-19 related safety aspects.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/if-you-step-out-you-risk-a-30-min-discourse-on-covid-19-awareness/articleshow/75131150.cms||---
April 14, 2020||Pune||Volunteers join hands with societies to care for elderly||Pune: In addition to delivering groceries, medicines and cooked meals to senior citizens across the city, volunteers are now also tying up with housing societies to provide care for the elderly, wherever possible.The head of a voluntary organisation in Baner-Pashan-Bavdhan Vaishali Patkar said if each society member takes responsibility of an elderly couple in their own building by providing them meals, it will help them stay safe at home.“We are trying to have as many volunteers as possible so that senior citizens do not need to go out of their own area. Whenever there is a request for a volunteer, we try to contact the secretary or chairman of the society to know if something can be arranged internally. This way, there will be minimum movement of volunteers and senior citizens will get freshly cooked homemade meals,” said Patkar.Societies should also talk to senior citizens to understand their needs, said Suhas Patwardhan, chairman of the Federation of Cooperative Housing Societies in Pune district. “Senior citizens hesitate to seek help as they do not want to be dependent and helpless. Hence, societies must come forward and ask what they want. At Panchavati, we have 17 societies and each has been asked to form its own group where senior citizens can post what they want and others can help.”Meanwhile, volunteers have been appealing to senior citizens avoid requesting non-essential items. “Most things need to be sourced locally or within walking distance. Only extreme essentials like medicine should be bought from outside the area. The seniors must ideally WhatsApp the list to a volunteer or call the local grocer to keep the materials ready so volunteers can ensure an immediate pickup,” said Sonali Rasal, a founding member of a voluntary groups.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/volunteers-join-hands-with-societies-to-care-for-elderly/articleshow/75131158.cms||Ardhra Nair
April 14, 2020||Pune||Cops secure conviction in 35 cases of disobedience||Pune: The Pune Rural police have secured conviction in 35 out of 2,500 cases of disobedience filed for lockdown orders’ violation in places like Baramati, Shirur and Lonavla, among others. Those convicted have been directed to pay fine in the range of Rs100 to Rs300, failure of which will lead to a day-long simple jail, the police said. All these cases were filed under Section 188 (Disobedience to order duly promulgated by public servant) of the Indian Penal Code. Apart from this, the police had impounded over 700 two-wheelers of people found wandering on the roads in violation of the lockdown order and collected total fine of Rs 16,000. Pune rural superintendent of police Sandeep Patil told TOI, “The provisions of Section 144 of the CrPC were implemented in the district soon after the lockdown was announced. People were supposed to stay in their houses and use of private vehicles for non essential purposes was banned. However, many people, especially youngsters, came out of their homes and started riding their motorcycles on the highways or town/village roads. We impounded their bikes and also filed cases against them under Section 188 of the IPC. Within minutes, their statements were recorded and on the same day, the cases were referred to the courts. We have achieved conviction in 35 cases so far and more cases will be heard in next few days.” Maskless man fined A 32-year-old Nana Peth resident found roaming on his bike without a mask on Saturday was convicted by the Cantonment court on Monday by imposing a fine of Rs 1000, the Cantonment police said. Constable Ganpatrao Thikole of the Cantonment police had caught him riding without the mask, following which a case was filed against him under Section 188 of IPC and a chargesheet was prepared in two days. The chargesheet was submitted to the court with the evidence, after which the court heard the matter via video conferencing and handed out the punishment in 48 hours after the incident.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/cops-secure-conviction-in-35-cases-of-disobedience/articleshow/75131154.cms||---
April 14, 2020||Business||Bandhan Bank posts 32% biz growth to Rs 57k cr FY20||Kolkata: City-based lender Bandhan Bank has witnessed a 32% year-on year growth in business to Rs 57,073 crore during financial year ended March 31, 2020. The bank had a total deposit of Rs 43,232 crore as on March 2019. Total loans and advances of the bank grew by 60% year-on-year to Rs 71,825 crore. This was disclosed by the bank in a filing to Sebi and stock exchanges. The capital adequacy ratio (CAR) stands at 26.7% as per filing. It has also claimed that as on March 31, 2020 Bank had excess liquidity amounting to Rs 8,402 crore. “In addition to above, the bank can also draw up to Rs 1,815 crore from RBI under the Marginal Standing Facility scheme,” Bandhan added in the filing. The lender also told the stock exchange that the deposits from micro-banking customers continues to be strong and stable despite three weeks of lockdown. “The bank’s collection efficiency pan India for the period from January 1, 2020, till March 21, 2020 stands at 98.7%. Further, deposits from micro-banking customers continues to be strong and stable despite three weeks of lockdown,” it added. According to Bandhan, liquidity coverage ratio (LCR)as on March 31, 2020 at ~161%. As on March 31, 2020, the bank was having an excess liquidity amounting to ~Rs 8,402 crore.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/bandhan-bank-posts-32-biz-growth-to-rs-57k-cr-fy20/articleshow/75130627.cms||---
April 14, 2020||Surat||Gujarat: Trader caught with 135 mava packs in milk can||SURAT/RAJKOT: Two traders have been arrested in Surat and Amreli for allegedly selling tobacco products, while a paan shop was broken into in Jamnagar. In Kapodra area of Surat, one Jitesh Vaishnavi was arrested when he was going to deliver 135 mava packets to his customer. Vaishnavi was caught from Chikuwadi Road when police stopped him for checking on April 9. “When we checked his milk can attached to his motorcycle, we found 135 packets of mava. Each packet had separate packs of tobacco, betel nut and liquid edible lime,” said an official from Kapodra police station. Vaishanvi said he was going to deliver the mava packets to his friend Hitesh Dabhi. Tobacco products are high in demand in the Diamond City and those addicted to them are ready to pay higher prices. Many paan shop owners are making mava at home or selling other tobacco products through delivery to regular customers. Meanwhile in Gajerapara locality of Amreli, the accused, identified as Jayesh Koladia (40), was arrested on Sunday for allegedly hoarding tobacco products at his residence. “We raided Koladia’s house after receiving a tip-off about him illegally selling tobacco products. We seized bidis, cigarettes, pouches of tobacco, lime tubes and betel nuts, all worth Rs 5,150,” said Jairaj Vala, head constable with Amreli local crime branch. In Jamnagar, a group of unidentified people who were unable to suppress their cravings for nicotine broke into a paan shop at Ram Mandir chowk in Bedi area, and stole 2,400 bundles of bidis and boxes of lime, all worth Rs 29,868 on Saturday night. “The burgled shop belongs to Yogesh Somaiya,” said an official from Jamnagar B division police station.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/trader-caught-delivering-135-mavas-in-milk-can/articleshow/75130626.cms||---
April 14, 2020||Pune||Maharashtra: As lockdown wears on, anxiety brings more visitors to doctors||PUNE: Doctors are reporting cases of panic, anxiety or phobia said these can manifest in different ways, with some panicking over mild cold and assuming that they have contracted the coronavirus, while others may not seek help even if they have the symptoms. ENT surgeon Virendra Ghaisas said, “For the last few days, people are coming to us even if they experience a slight itch in their throats or ears. When people call, we assure them over the phone, but others insist on visiting us. Our OPD is functional and we have seen that 80% are panic cases while the remaining do have ear infections or other problems.” General practitioner Avinash Bhondwe said anxiety neurosis is commonly visible among people these days. “I am getting patients suffering from respiratory infections and having cold, cough and fever. They are extremely worried and we have to explain patiently that such infections are on the rise due to the changing weather.” He said a good number of people are seeing coronavirus in everything and this is worrisome. “I know people who have not stepped out of the home and into their own balcony since the lockdown started,” he added. Bhondwe said they spoke to him over the phone due to the fear of coming out. Those already suffering from mental health issues are in more trouble. There is also a large section waiting for problems to become acute before being forced to visit a doctor. Radiologist Satish Pande said a patient was suffering from severe pain and blood in his urine for two days. “When the pain grew unbearable, he decided sought help. Some people are wearing masks at home. Most are not coming out until compelled by acute pain, bleeding, vomiting or fracture,” he said. A lot of knowledge gaps is leading to anxiety among people, he added. “A lady came to me with abdominal pain and dyspepsia. After sonography, diagnosis and advise, she shared that her son has been stopped by the police for roaming around. which had made her amxious,” Pande said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/as-lockdown-wears-on-anxiety-brings-more-visitors-to-doctors/articleshow/75131146.cms||Rujuta Parekh
April 14, 2020||Aurangabad||Farmers compelled to feed veggies to cattle, fruit market hit||Aurangabad: The nationwide lockdown has given a severe blow to the district farmers as they have to feed their yields to the cattle. In Paithan’s Parundi village, Kakasaheb Nalawade had cultivated vegetables on four-acre of his land. Incidentally, he had got a good yield of cucumber, brinjal, pumpkin, tomato, coriander, spinach, watermelon and musk melon. However, the lockdown has led to transportation issues due to which neither can the farmers go to the market the traders can reach the villages leaving the farmers with no market to sell their produce. “We had raised the vegetables organically with soil conditioned with cow dung. Now, we are using vegetables to feed the cattle as fodder,” Nalawade said. The situation is no different for the fruit farmers, as they too going under the same crisis. They are required to sell their produce at half the price, which other times would command a price. Anil Hirde, sarpanch of Gopalpur village near Aurangabad said that he is constantly receiving calls from distressed fruit farmers. “A farmer from Aurangabad taluka said that he has 10 to 15 tonnes of sweet lime but the market is not available. Another is ready to harvest sweet corn cultivated on the two-acre farm. Grape farmers are ready to sell fresh stock at Rs 30/kg while the market price is Rs 50-60/kg,” he said. Another farmer Vilas Jagdale had estimated a cost of Rs 10/kg for his sweet lime yield but had to drop the price to Rs 6/kg, therefore, suffering a loss of Rs 30,000 to 35,000. “The traders say that the police stop them on the road, so they are not willing to travel. Some farmers directly go to the marketplace,” Jagdale said. Out of the 12 lakh tonne of sweet lime production in the state, an estimated 7 lakh tonne of the fruit is grown in Marathwada of which Paithan taluka is one of the major producers. Meanwhile, the Paithan taluka president of BJP Sunil Shinde has submitted a memorandum to the tehsildar seeking the earliest opening of Pachod fruit market and passage for farmers to sell their harvest.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/farmers-compelled-to-feed-veggies-to-cattle-fruit-market-hit/articleshow/75130608.cms||Arpita Sharad
April 14, 2020||Vadodara||Khambhat tally touches four||Vadodara/Anand: Anand district recorded its ninth COVID-19 case as a 35-year-old male from coastal town Khambhat tested positive on Monday. The male had come in close contact with a 53-year-old woman who had tested positive on Saturday. Two members of her family had also tested positive on Sunday, taking the total number of positive cases in Khambhat city to four. On Sunday, samples of the woman’s 33-year-old son and 62-year-old husband had came positive. The female, a homemaker, had travelled to Uttar Pradesh between January 11 and February 21 after which she had started developing symptoms like fever, cough, abdominal discomfort, dyspnoea and general weakness. The man, who tested positive on Monday, is a resident of Aling crossroads area of Khambhat. He had developed symptoms like fever, cough, sore throat. Condition of the man, admitted at Shree Krishna Hospital, Karamsad is said to be stable. Currently, of the nine patients who tested positive, four are on oxygen support while five others are normal. None of the patient is critical or on ventilator support, officials said. Four areas in the district have been declared cluster containment zones so far. These include Enterprise Society in Padariya area of Anand city where the first case had emerged, Hadgud village from where three cases were reported, Aling crossroads in Khambhat city from where four cases were reported and Navakhal village in Anklav taluka from where one case was reported. So far, 196 samples have tested negative in the district. While 1,160 people are under home quarantine, 33 have been kept under quarantine at a government facility.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/khambhat-tally-touches-four/articleshow/75130617.cms||---
April 14, 2020||Kolkata||Sumati RG Kar||Kolkata: RG Kar Medical College and Hospital, north Kolkata’s largest medical facility, has become the latest flashpoint in the city’s battle against Covid-19 after reports of multiple people from the nearby Belgachhia slums testing positive for the disease. The scare started with the death of an elderly man from Belgachhia on Friday, whose swab samples tested positive, post mortem. A hospital source said at least three more people from the locality had also tested positive. “A few more people admitted to our isolation ward, including those from Belgachhia, have tested positive for Covid-19 in the past couple of days. We have shifted them to hospitals dedicated to Covid treatment,” said an RG Kar official. The administration and law-enforcing agencies are trying to identify more suspected Covid-19 cases within a 2km radius. “So far, we have not received any communication that more suspected cases from a particular locality will be brought to our hospital. But if that does happen, we are ready,” said another official. The hospital has increased its number of isolation beds to 50. Also, the male medicine ward, where two patients tested positive, has already been sanitized and converted into a segregation zone to observe low-suspect cases. “The patient load now is low but we can add more isolation beds if need be. As for confirmed patients, we are referring them to Covid-dedicated hospitals,” said an official. Doctors said risk arose while dealing with asymptomatic patients, who sought treatment for other ailments. “Now, if we are told these patients are from a particular locality and need to be treated as Covid-19 ‘suspects’, our healthcare workers will tend to them in personal protection equipment,” said an official. “Nearly 50 of our health workers are in quarantine, but due to the low patient load, it will not be a problem.” The man who died on Friday was admitted with myocardial infarction, had diabetes and suffered from hypertension but did not reportedly show any Covid-19 symptom. He was admitted to the male medicine ward, where he developed respiratory distress.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/sumati-rg-kar/articleshow/75130639.cms||Sumati Yengkhom
April 14, 2020||Aurangabad||Frontline workers in the Covid-19 battle, anganwadi staff have not been paid for 2 months||done. Aurangabad: Scores of anganwadi staffers in the district have not been paid for two months. They have also not received an increment due to them for the last 10 months. Notably, the workforce concerned is among the frontline staff battling against the Covid-19 outbreak. Social activist and leader of the All-India Trade Union Congress (AITUC) Ram Baheti said it was ironical that frontline workers had been made to wait for their monthly remuneration. “The issue was taken up with the government authorities but they were unable to provide a concrete reason for the delay. The authorities had promised there would be relief but the workforce concerned is still waiting for their dues,” he said. Aurangabad district has around 3,000 anganwadi workers and an equal number of helpers who receive a monthly remuneration of Rs 8,500 and Rs 3,500 respectively. Baheti said anganwadi workers had received an increment in their monthly remuneration, but the difference had not been paid for the last 10 months. “The anganwadi sewikas (workers) had received a monthly increment of Rs 1,500, while their helpers were given a raise of Rs 1,000. The staffers, however, are yet to get the revised remuneration,” he said. The government machinery has roped in anganwadi staff to help tackle the current pandemic. The workforce has been discharging crucial duties such as carrying out health surveys and door-to-door visits. Run as a centrally-managed chain of childcare centres in the country, Anganwadis across the country have been in place since the 1970s as a part of the Integrated Child Development Services programme to combat malnutrition among children. Besides raising the issue of delay in release of monthly remuneration, AITUC has demanded free supply of hand sanitisers and masks to anganwadi workers and health insurance cover. Prasad Mirkale, deputy chief executive officer of the Aurangabad Zilla Parishad, who is the competent authority in matters related to anganwadis, said the state treasury department has cleared the dues of anganwadi staffers for February. “The staffers are expected to receive their remuneration in the next three to four days. A set of technical issues at the state level had caused the delay in payment,” he said. He said the remuneration for March would also be released shortly. On the other demands raised by AITUC, he said the demands would be conveyed to the state level authority and the state government would have to take the policy decisions.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/frontline-workers-in-the-covid-19-battle-anganwadi-staff-have-not-been-paid-for-2-months/articleshow/75130629.cms||---
April 14, 2020||Bhopal||Lockdown: Madhya Pradesh dairies feed milk to cattle||BHOPAL: Lockdown enforced in the state to prevent spread of Coronavirus has had a toll on milk producers in the state. With supply disrupted due to lockdown at most places and demand taking a hit, dairy owners and milk suppliers in Madhya Pradesh are feeding the white nutritious liquid to the cattle, in true sense of ‘gau seva’. Normally during summers, milk production dips and demand goes up. But, this year has been very different. With supplies taking a hit, there is hardly any demand for milk products as well, say dairy owners. We cannot afford to throw away the precious milk, neither can we store it beyond a point in these harsh weather conditions, said a dairy owner. In northern and western parts bordering Rajasthan, farmers from the state supplied milk across the borders. Now, with state borders sealed, supply across borders have stopped. Large number of Gurjar families from Rajasthan have settled down in over 25 villages of Sheopur district in MP for the past many years. They own more than 1 lakh Gir cows — a popular cattle breed, known for high milk yield. In the dusty hamlets of Patalgarh, Simronian and Cholia villages where the Gir cows are reared the early morning hustle-bustle, the clunky noise of milk utensils and dust clouds kicked up by the motorbikes and jeeps transporting the milk is missing. The milk produced daily is fed back to the cattle after local use. Besides fodder, we have been feeding milk to all the cattle and enjoy the sight when they drink it, Nanda Gurjar, a community head told TOI. The milk from the area was supplied to a big milk brand of Kota and a factory producing butter, paneer and mawa in Sheopur, besides supplying it to Sanchi cooperative. Refusing to “quantify the loss incurred by the lockdown,” Gurjar said, “We produce thousands of litre of milk every day. In the normal times, we would have hundreds of vehicles including two, three and four wheelers carrying milk to and from the villages. But, now there is no business transaction.” Watch COVID-19 crisis: MP dairies feed milk to cattle, as demand dips during lockdown||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/mp-dairies-feed-milk-to-cattle/articleshow/75130637.cms||Deshdeep Saxena
April 14, 2020||Pune||Pune: Drop in number of calls to senior citizens’ helpline since last month||PUNE: The senior citizens’ helpline of the Pune police has witnessed a drop in the number of calls since the start of March. Police attribute the dip to volunteers in the city, who have ensured that senior citizens want for nothing during the lockdown. According to Pune police data, the helpline has received only 120 calls between March 10 and April 2. Of the 120 calls, nearly 100 pertained to various enquiries and the remainder dealt with requests to visit the hospital, buy medicine or contact details of any organization providing food. DCP (crime) Bachchan Singh said several NGOs have come forward to help senior citizens, which has resulted in the drop in calls. The NGO ‘Action for Pune Development (APD), for instance, through its 63 volunteers, has been able to help 380 senior citizens since the lockdown. “All these senior citizens had reached out to us for delivery of groceries or medicine. Our volunteers, spread across the city, make the deliveries to senior citizens who have approached us from their areas,” APD founder Aakash Shah said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/drop-in-number-of-calls-to-senior-citizens-helpline-since-last-month/articleshow/75131164.cms||Rujuta Parekh
April 14, 2020||Hyderabad||Infections up, so are containment clusters||HYDERABAD: With an increase in the number of positive cases in Telangana, the government has marked 126 localities in the city as containment clusters. The newly marked zones include the previous clusters too. On April 8, the state had marked 12 clusters in the city. Each cluster consisted of 4,000 to 7,000 people and covered a radius of 2.3 kms. This has caused a few problems and people, who were not in the actual hotspot, were inconvenienced. Therefore, the officials reduced the radius of each cluster. GHMC also decentralized the existing clusters and split them into smaller zones/ clusters to ensure better surveillance. For each cluster, a multi-disciplinary team - two police personnel, one auxiliary nurse and midwife (ANM), one GHMC official and three volunteers (residents) - has been formed. “Two police personnel, one at entry and the other at exit point, are posted during a shift. There are three shifts and a total of 756 police personnel are deployed exclusively in these clusters,” said a source.  In addition to regular patrolling, The locations are being monitored by Covid control rooms in police commissionerates as well by the Covid control room in the GHMC head office. People in several clusters, including the ones under Madhapur, Hafeezpet, and Shaikpet wards, did not move out. During the afternoon, some people came out their homes but by evening most of the clusters, including the ones in Nampally and Old Malakpet, wore a deserted look. The localities, which have been marked as clusters, have multiple entrances and all of them have been blocked. Apart from the eight feet height steel barricading, the by-lanes have also been barricaded with wooden logs. Departmental stores were closed at different times in each cluster. The shops located in the Madhapur cluster were closed between 12:30 pm to 2 pm and those in Shaikpet cluster were closed by 4 pm. “A resident wanted to go to a private hospital in Road No. 4, Kukatpally Housing Board Colony, so he called the cops who provided transport facility by co-ordinating with the teams,” said Yadagiri Goud, a resident of Madhapur ward and who is also a volunteers in the team.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/infections-up-so-are-containment-clusters/articleshow/75130644.cms||Nabinder Bommala
April 14, 2020||Pune||Katraj Dairy’s milk distribution goes down||Pune: The Pune Zilla Sahakari Dudh Utpadak Sangh Maryadit, popularly known as Katraj Dairy, is facing problem in distribution of milk because of inadequate manpower and transportation. This has further led to a slump in its daily milk distribution figures over the last few weeks. Katraj Dairy is one of the main distributors of packaged milk in the city. Katraj Dairy chairman Vishnu Hinge said, “We supply 1.35 lakh litre of milk a day. But the daily supply has now come down to 90,000-95,000 litre. We are making milk powder and butter milk and preparing butter from the rest of the milk. For these products too, there is not much demand at present. We will face major financial loss.” Hinge, however, clarified that the crisis would not impact the price of milk pouches, which are sold in the range of Rs42-44 per litre for cow milk and Rs58-60 per litre for buffalo milk. He said, “We can neither increase rates nor we can tell milk farmers to not bring milk. They can’t stop milking their cows and buffaloes. We will have to make payments as per the government rates.” The government recently declared that it would buy excess milk from dairies,Hinge said. “But the system is yet to start on ground. Besides, many workers involved in transportation and distribution have gone to their native places. Many hotels, sweet shops and big tea stalls are shut. This, too, has affected distribution.” For the past two days, areas such Pimple Saudagar, Kalewadi, Nashik Phata in Pimpri Chinchwad Municipal did not get adequate milk. Indraneel Chitale, a partner at Chitale Bandhu milk,told TOI, “Many commercial shops are closed due to the lockdown. As a result, there is slump in demand for milk byproducts such as Shrikhand and Amrakhand.” Chitale Bandhu is the largest milk supplier in the city,||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/katraj-dairys-milk-distribution-goes-down/articleshow/75131168.cms||---
April 14, 2020||Aurangabad||If you want to help, help, don’t shoot: Rural SP Patil to her team||Aurangabad: Aurangabad rural superintendent of police Mokshada Patil on Monday issued a circular asking all the policemen to refrain from clicking photographs and posting them on social media when they are helping the citizens or carrying out any welfare activity. According to authorities, such act may hurt the self-respect of the needy people. The internal circular has asked the policemen to not click photographs while handing over food packets or ration kits to the needy. The officer, in her letter, has highlighted that "poverty or being disadvantaged shouldn’t be an assumption that they are devoid of self respect. Posing for a photo while donating something to someone, only highlights the receiver’s helplessness. And that’s not what we should be highlighting". While talking to TOI, she said, "It is just by chance that we are able to help and not the one needing help. Those in need could have been any one of us, and this thought made me to issue an internal circular." The officer added that she wants to sensitise the policemen to help and engage in community policing just like addressing policing issues that the community needs locally. To ensure that even the self-proclaimed social workers, or those doing it for the sake of publicity are kept under check, Patil has decided that all the social workers, NGOs, or individuals willing to help the poor should deposit the goods at the SP office with a tag comprising details of the donor as well as the area or people he or she intends to help. "Our senior police officers will monitor and ensure that all donated articles reaches the intended beneficiary," she said. Going a step ahead, Latur district collector G Shrikanth has issued an order, using the special powers conferred to him, warning of registering offences against anyone found posting pictures of their charity work on social media.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/if-you-want-to-help-help-dont-shoot-rural-sp-patil-to-her-team/articleshow/75130654.cms||Mohammed Akhef
April 14, 2020||Kolhapur||Headmaster arrested for allegedly raping minor||Kolhapur: Sangli police have arrested a headmaster for allegedly raping a minor girl studying in Std IX. The incident came to light after the girl (15) informed her parents about the incident following which a case was lodged against the suspect on Saturday. The police arrested the suspect on Sunday and he was produced before a local court on Monday following which he has been remanded in five-day police custody. According to police, the suspect works as headmaster in a private school in one of the towns in Sangli district. “On Thursday, the headmaster called the girl to his home for some personal work. When the girl reached there, the suspect allegedly raped her. On Saturday, the suspect visited the girl’s home and threatened her not to talk about the incident to anyone. He then forcefully took the girl to a nearby school and raped her," a police officer said. "However, someone spotted the suspect at the school with the girl and raised an alarm. The suspect managed to flee before people could arrive for help. Later, the girl narrated the entire incident to her parents. A complaint was lodged with us on the same day," he added. Police immediately got into action and started looking for the suspect. “On Sunday night we traced his location with the help of our sources and nabbed him. We have booked him under several sections of the Indian Penal Code, including section 376 (rape) and sections of Protection of Children from Sexual Offences (POCSO),” the officer said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolhapur/headmaster-arrested-for-allegedly-raping-minor/articleshow/75131191.cms||---
April 14, 2020||Surat||Surat airport expansion works continue amid lockdown||SURAT: Even though the domestic and international flight operations have been suspended due to the lockdown, it has not deterred the Surat airport authorities from completing the critical infrastructure project related to the expansion of the existing terminal building. Engineers and team of more than 50 construction workers are working under the guidance of the senior airport officials to ensure that the foundation work of the terminal expansion project is completed before the monsoon season. “Completing the foundation work for the terminal expansion project before monsoon is crucial. After the lockdown was announced, we consulted our engineers and they showed their willingness to complete the work in the time bound manner,” said airport director, Aman Saini. “We are taking utmost care of the construction workers and the engineers who are working at the site. The construction workers have been given shelter in the airport premises and they are regularly screened and provided with medical assistance on regular basis. The social distancing guidelines and safety measure are being strictly followed at the site,” he added. The expansion of the terminal building at the cost of Rs 350 crore was approved by the Airport Authority of India (AAI) following the growth in the passenger traffic from Surat airport over the last two years. Against the present capacity of the existing terminal building to handle 500 peak hour passengers, the passenger traffic has crossed 4,000 per day. The existing terminal building has an area of 8,474 square metre that will be extended by additional 17,046 square metre (excluding City Side and air side kerb) to have a total area of 25, 520 square metre. After the extension, the terminal building will be capable to handle (1200 Domestic + 600 International) i.e. 1800 passenger during the peak hours. Surat Airport then, will be able to handle 2.6 million passengers annually.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/surat-airport-expansion-works-continue-amid-lockdown/articleshow/75130677.cms||---
April 14, 2020||Hyderabad||From 23-day-old to 12-year-old, Gandhi Hospital treating 20 kids for Covid-19||HYDERABAD: While social distancing is key in containing the spread of novel coronavirus, treating 20 children below 12 years in Gandhi Hospital is quite a task for doctors as maintaining social distance with them is next to impossible. Among the patients who tested positive for the coronavirus in the state, 20 were children. Ranging from a 23-day-old baby to a 12-year-old, Gandhi Hospital has a separate ward for them in the sixth floor. A team of 20 doctors is attending to them. These children have been kept in a special isolation ward on the sixth floor. All these cases are being treated by the paediatric wing of the hospital. The youngest children in the Covid-19 ward is a 23-day-old baby girl who contracted the virus and the eldest is 12-year-old boy. According to the authorities, one child has already been discharged.  While all the kids are stable, a three-year-old boy, who was earlier admitted in Niloufer Hospital, is giving doctors a tough time. “He has some health issues. Even before he contracted the virus, he had developed some complications. But, we are hoping he will also recover soon,” said hospital sources. Most of the children undergoing treatment for Covid-19 are in the age group of 5-12. Doctors are treating the children as per the treatment protocol given by ICMR, which is much different from what is followed for adults. For starters, hydroxycholoroquine is not administered to children. “We have different protocols and a team of 20 doctors 20 is monitoring them. A total medical staff of 60 attends to them in different shifts,” a doctor said. They being children, mothers are allowed to be with them and attend to their needs. The mother and the child are in kept in a room and the mothers are also regularly checked for coronovirus infection. Sources said the children are given the food they ask and toys are also provided. “Some of them contracted the virus through their mothers and some through other relatives,” sources said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/from-23-day-old-to-12-yr-old-gandhi-hospital-treating-20-kids-for-covid-19/articleshow/75130668.cms||Sribala Vadlapatla
April 14, 2020||Pune||PMC starts 150-bed coronavirus treatment centre at Bharati hospital||PUNE: Bharati medical college and hospital has volunteered to run 150-bed ‘Covid-19 treatment centre’ on its premises in Dhankawdi in association with Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC). “We have signed an MoU with PMC and pledged our 150 beds fully for isolation and treatment of suspected and positive patients of Covid-19. This will not hamper our other medical services. They will continue,” said hospital's medical director Sanjay Lalwani. Hospital’s deputy medical director Jitendra Oswal said, “Our is the first private hospital to start Covid-19 treatment centre where isolation, testing and treatment will be offered to patients free of cost under PMC's or state government's health schemes.” This is a 831-bed hospital. “The 150 Covid-19 treatment centre will be completely cordoned off from other beds. There are separate entry and exit ways to the centre as well as to the remaining part of the hospital where people of other ailments will be taken care of,” he said. The district has started asking private intensivists and anaesthetists in Pune to start rendering medical services at Sassoon hospital. Confirming, eye surgeon Sanjay Patil, former president of IMA Pune, said, “About 15 intensivists and anaesthetists attached with private hospitals have been intimated to start rendering services at the Sassoon hospital where quite a few Covid-19 patients are undergoing treatment. They have responded to the call."||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/pmc-starts-150-bed-coronavirus-treatment-centre-at-bharati-hosp/articleshow/75131190.cms||Umesh Isalkar
April 14, 2020||Rajkot||PMSA seizes two Indian boats||Rajkot: Two Indian fishing boats with 14 fishermen on board were captured by Pakistan Maritime Security Agency (PMSA) near India-Pakistan maritime border in the Arabian Sea off Jakhau in Kutch district on Sunday. A fisherman on board one of the boats managed to escape despite suffering a bullet injury. Rambharohi Ramdhani (26), the injured fisherman, was first taken to Nalia Civil Hospital, and from there to G K General Hospital in Bhuj. “The boats had set sail for fishing from Okha on April 2,” said a cop. TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/pmsa-seizes-two-indian-boats/articleshow/75130656.cms||---
April 14, 2020||Ahmedabad||IKDRC develops ‘multiplexer’||Ahmedabad: The Institute of Kidney Diseases & Research Centre (IKDRC) has developed a four-way mechanism through which one ventilator can be attached to up to eight patients by augmenting the machine’s capacity.Dr Vineet Mishra, the director of the IKDRC, said that the apparatus splits oxygen supply from a single-source ventilator to four patients through inspiratory limbs simultaneously. “The expiratory limbs take back exhalation and merge into another set of ‘multiplexer’ fitted with HME filters which thereafter goes back to ventilator machine,” he said.“If there is a sudden rush of Covid-19 patients for ventilatory support, ventilators with higher capacity of tidal volume can provide the support to as many as eight persons from a single machine by adding an extra set of multiplexers,” said Dr Mishra.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/ikdrc-develops-multiplexer/articleshow/75260032.cms||---
April 14, 2020||Vadodara||Manjalpur BJP corporator caught with pants down!||Vadodara: High drama prevailed at the ward office of the Vadodara Municipal Corporation (VMC) in Manjalpur when BJP corporator from the area Kalpesh Patel aka Jay Ranchhod was reportedly caught with his pants down on Monday afternoon. Patel, later claimed it was a wardrobe malfunction and not as has been ascribed. VMC has been spraying disinfectant in the city using its tankers and fire tenders. Patel had reached the ward office and raised a hue and cry that despite his recommendations, the drive was not conduced in many areas. Patel has been claiming that veteran councillor from the opposition Congress party, Chirag Zaveri, was getting work done in his areas only while three BJP corporators from the same ward were being ignored. Zaveri said in midst of the ruckus, when someone was recording Patel’s video, Patel allegedly removed his pyjamas and told the person to continue filming him. Patel, however, later claimed that his pyjama string got entangled in the door of the car while he was getting out of it and so the garment opened and fell down on its own. “Someone took advantage of the situation and took photographs. I even had to wait in my car for a fresh pair,” he asserted later. VMC commissioner Nalin Upadhyay, however, said that the issue had been addressed. “There was some misunderstanding which has now been resolved,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/manjalpur-bjp-corporator-caught-with-pants-down/articleshow/75130658.cms||---
April 14, 2020||Jaipur||Denied treatment, three from Ramganj die of renal failure||JAIPUR: Residents of Covid-19 hotspot Ramganj in Jaipur alleged on Monday that patients with chronic ailments are being denied treatment by government as well as private hospitals. Three families have blamed city hospitals for the death of their kin who suffered from renal failure. The families said the three patients from Ramganj were refused treatment outright by private hospitals due to fears that they may possibly be infected by coronavirus. One of the three patients had undergone kidney transplant a year ago and all were under heavy medication and treatment, including weekly dialysis. Deceased 32-year-old Mohammed Akram’s younger brother Mohammed Akhter told TOI that his brother’s situation turned worse in the first week of April. He took him to at least three to four private hospitals but all of them refused admission when they heard he was from Ramganj. “Finally, we went to the SMS Hospital on April 11. After repeated requests, they put him on water dialysis instead of blood dialysis. His condition deteriorated but due to the virus fear, doctors and staff maintained a distance with him. He died due to negligence on Monday morning,” said Akhter, who accused the hospital staff of medical discrimination.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/denied-treatment-three-fromramganj-die-of-renal-failure/articleshow/75131192.cms||Shoeb Khan
April 14, 2020||Nagpur||MHA’s new advisory will toughen cops’ task on road||Nagpur: An advisory issued to the states by the ministry of home affairs (MHA) to further smoothen the flow of essential commodities and emergency services is set to leave the cops with a trickier situation as more people and vehicles would be on the road now. As per the fresh order issued regarding the lockdown guidelines, the home secretary has, on April 12, urged the rest of its ministries, state governments and Union territories that there should be no hindrance to the supply of essential commodities and emergency services. In the advisory, the MHA has instructed allowing manpower related to industries dealing in essential commodities and emergency services to move freely to reach their workplaces. It also categorically mentioned that movement of drivers and cleaners to-and-fro from their residences to the workplace should not be curtailed. It has also specifically mentioned that there should be no restrictions on the movement of manpower and vehicles engaged by managements of warehouses or cold storages. The guidelines also underlined that railways, airports, seaports and customs have been asked to issue passes to their employees and there should be no prohibition of any kind on their staff movement. The home secretary of the central government has also pointed out about wrongful detentions of vehicles and manpower dealing in essential commodities and emergency services during the inter-state and intra-state movements. Following the latest guidelines, city police may have to rethink on issuing additional passes to the organizations and manpower related to the essential commodities and emergency services. City police chief BK Upadhyay, under whom the men in khaki are struggling round-the-clock to curtail unnecessary movement of people and vehicles, said organizations should issue I-cards to it’s manpower and rest can approach us with authorization letters for issuance of passes. “Media should play a pro-active role in explaining the tricky situation the police are in. We have to allow the manpower and vehicles related with essential commodities and emergency services which may appear like more people coming out on the roads,” he said. Police, which had initially started taking tough measures against the public straying onto the roads, were forced to go on the back foot following repeated complaints of high-handedness. At present, police are only left with legal options to deal with the people and vehicles on roads without permission of exempted services or reasons.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/mhas-new-advisory-will-toughen-cops-task-on-road/articleshow/75130681.cms||Soumitra Bose
April 14, 2020||Vadodara||Civic body donated five automatic sprinkling machines||Vadodara: Firemen in city will no longer have to work under the risk of getting rashes and burn injuries while sanitizing the city. Vadodara Municipal Corporation on Tuesday was donated five machines which can automatically sprinkle a mixture of water and chemical. Swadhyay Movement donated these machines, which are usually used in farms for sprinkling pesticides. Fire officials said the machine can work non-stop for 90 minutes and sprinkle 600 litres of mixture during the period. The machine has rotating booms which can cover an area of 30 square kilometres while sprinkling the mixture. They are stationed at Vadiwadi fire station. The machines were used on Tuesday at Navi Dharti locality in Nagarwada which has been put under mass quarantine as three persons from the area tested positive for coronavirus. So far, the fire department used to manually sprinkle mixture of water and sodium hypochlorite from its tankers. Some eight firemen had recently suffered skin infection because of the chemical. They had developed rashes on their skin and suffered from burning sensation for two days. Although the civic body officials are hailing the machines, fire department sources said they will not be of much use in Vadodara because of narrow lanes. “The machine can cover 30 square metre area but the roads in our city are narrow due to which it can only be used on major roads,” another fire official said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/civic-body-donated-five-automatic-sprinkling-machines/articleshow/75130672.cms||---
April 14, 2020||Pune||Kamshet, Alandi start shutdown||Pimpri Chinchwad: Alandi and Kamshet on Monday started their two-day lockdown. Alandi is one of the well-known religious places. Sameer Bhumkar, CEO of the Alandi Municipal Council, said, “Corporators and residents of Alandi had submitted letters demanding that lockdown be observed in the town. Only medical stores and hospitals will be open.” Kamshet village development officer Pratap Mane said, “We have warned traders associations warning them that if social distancing is not observed, they will be fined.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/kamshet-alandi-start-shutdown/articleshow/75131193.cms||Siddharth Gaikwad
April 14, 2020||Rajkot||Gujarat to expand scope of Covid-19 tests with more labs, new method||AHMEDABAD: Facing criticism for comparatively fewer number of tests for identifying Covid-19 suspect cases, state officials on Monday evening said that they are expanding the scope of testing further with an increase in coverage of geographic area and persons tested. On Monday, Gujarat registered 56 fresh Covid-19 positive cases taking the total tally to 572 cases. Death toll in the state climbed to 26 deaths after two more deaths — one each from Ahmedabad and Vadodara – were recorded on Monday. Vadodara saw the death of a youth. “A 27-year-old man has died at Gotri Hospital on Sunday night. He was already under treatment for dengue and his father and uncle were identified positive cases.” A 76-year-old man, admitted in SVP Hospital in Ahmedabad, succumbed to the infection on Monday. He had co-morbidity in form of heart and lung disease including pulmonary fibrosis, said senior health officials. Jayanti Ravi, principal secretary (health & family welfare), said that apart from the current testing labs approved by ICMR for the Covid-19 tests, they are also ramping up facilities at GMERS Sola, GCRI, NIOH, SMIMER, etc. which would soon get permission. “With the new labs, we would have capacity of 5,000 tests and we would also be able to run the lab round the clock,” she said. Ravi said that in terms of tests per million (10 lakh) population, Gujarat is third in country with 219 tests. Only Kerala with 448 tests and Maharashtra with 317 tests lead Gujarat in testing. “In fact, in past 24 hours, Gujarat processed about 16% of India’s total samples. Our positive case rate (positive cases per 100 tests) is at 4.1%,” she said. Due to random testing introduced in the districts where no cases have been registered so far, two positive cases from Banaskantha were found on Monday. The testing would also be conducted in areas apart from identified hotspots, said health department officials. Ahmedabad city and district recorded 38 of 56 cases on Monday with survey intensified in various identified hotspots, said health department officials. State labs will have capacity of conducting 5,000 testsJayanti Ravi, principal secretary (health & family welfare), said that apart from the current testing labs approved by ICMR for the Covid-19 tests, they are also ramping up facilities at GMERS Sola, GCRI, NIOH, SMIMER, etc. which would soon get permission. “With the new labs, we would have capacity of 5,000 tests and we would also be able to run the lab round the clock,” she said. Ravi said that in terms of tests per million (10 lakh) population, Gujarat is third in country with 219 tests. Only Kerala with 448 tests and Maharashtra with 317 tests lead Gujarat in testing. “In fact, in past 24 hours, Gujarat processed about 16% of India’s total samples. Our positive case rate (positive cases per 100 tests) is at 4.1%,” she said. Ahmedabad city and district recorded 38 of 56 cases on Monday with survey intensified in various identified hotspots, said health department officials.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/guj-to-expand-scope-of-tests-with-more-labs-new-method/articleshow/75131958.cms||---
April 14, 2020||Ahmedabad||Gujarat to expand scope of Covid-19 tests with more labs, new method||AHMEDABAD: Facing criticism for comparatively fewer number of tests for identifying Covid-19 suspect cases, state officials on Monday evening said that they are expanding the scope of testing further with an increase in coverage of geographic area and persons tested. On Monday, Gujarat registered 56 fresh Covid-19 positive cases taking the total tally to 572 cases. Death toll in the state climbed to 26 deaths after two more deaths — one each from Ahmedabad and Vadodara – were recorded on Monday. Vadodara saw the death of a youth. “A 27-year-old man has died at Gotri Hospital on Sunday night. He was already under treatment for dengue and his father and uncle were identified positive cases.” A 76-year-old man, admitted in SVP Hospital in Ahmedabad, succumbed to the infection on Monday. He had co-morbidity in form of heart and lung disease including pulmonary fibrosis, said senior health officials. Jayanti Ravi, principal secretary (health & family welfare), said that apart from the current testing labs approved by ICMR for the Covid-19 tests, they are also ramping up facilities at GMERS Sola, GCRI, NIOH, SMIMER, etc. which would soon get permission. “With the new labs, we would have capacity of 5,000 tests and we would also be able to run the lab round the clock,” she said. Ravi said that in terms of tests per million (10 lakh) population, Gujarat is third in country with 219 tests. Only Kerala with 448 tests and Maharashtra with 317 tests lead Gujarat in testing. “In fact, in past 24 hours, Gujarat processed about 16% of India’s total samples. Our positive case rate (positive cases per 100 tests) is at 4.1%,” she said. Due to random testing introduced in the districts where no cases have been registered so far, two positive cases from Banaskantha were found on Monday. The testing would also be conducted in areas apart from identified hotspots, said health department officials. Ahmedabad city and district recorded 38 of 56 cases on Monday with survey intensified in various identified hotspots, said health department officials. State labs will have capacity of conducting 5,000 testsJayanti Ravi, principal secretary (health & family welfare), said that apart from the current testing labs approved by ICMR for the Covid-19 tests, they are also ramping up facilities at GMERS Sola, GCRI, NIOH, SMIMER, etc. which would soon get permission. “With the new labs, we would have capacity of 5,000 tests and we would also be able to run the lab round the clock,” she said. Ravi said that in terms of tests per million (10 lakh) population, Gujarat is third in country with 219 tests. Only Kerala with 448 tests and Maharashtra with 317 tests lead Gujarat in testing. “In fact, in past 24 hours, Gujarat processed about 16% of India’s total samples. Our positive case rate (positive cases per 100 tests) is at 4.1%,” she said. Ahmedabad city and district recorded 38 of 56 cases on Monday with survey intensified in various identified hotspots, said health department officials.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/guj-to-expand-scope-of-tests-with-more-labs-new-method/articleshow/75130673.cms||---
April 14, 2020||Pune||Pune: Isolation wards in 700 flats||PUNE: Slum dwellers can look forward to better isolation facilities with the newly-built flats under the Slum Rehabilitation Authority (SRA) schemes being converted into isolation wards. Nearly 700 flats will be converted into isolation wards. The dwellers who are not able to maintain social distancing will be shifted to these houses. s"A newly-built scheme is ready and vacant. It is located at Nagar road area comprising 700 flats. It can be used as temporary shelters. It can also be used as quarantine facility or for meeting other needs," said Rajendra Nimbalkar, SRA CEO, told TOI. “PMC has offered municipal schools for these people. The police officials in association with local ward office can take a call on shifting the dwellers living in densily-populated slum pockets into schools,” said Shekhar Gaikwad, municipal commissioner, PMC.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/isolation-wards-in-700-flats/articleshow/75131200.cms||---
April 14, 2020||Kolkata||Kolkata health organisation’s gift to help Arunachal Pradesh test Covid-19 samples||KOLKATA: A gift from the City of Joy is now going to assume an important role in the battle against coronavirus in the north-eastern state of Arunachal Pradesh. An RT-PCR machine that was sent by Liver Foundation, West Bengal (LFWB), to Tomo Riba Institute of Health and Medical Sciences (TRIHMS), Naharlagun, will now be used to conduct Covid-19 tests in the state. This is the first time the state will have its own testing facilities. “So far Arunachal had been sending swab samples to the ICMR lab in Dibrugarh in Assam. Once we start taking in samples, a lot of time will be saved in getting test reports. Thanks to LFWB for the machine, which has come handy in the time of such a crisis,” said Moji Jini, director TRIHMS. However, the machine was installed at the microbiology unit of the institute nine months ago for a different purpose. LFWB has been working with TRIHMS for few years now on hepatitis research and the machine was given to the institute to enhance collaborative studies on hepatitis by LFWB with support from US-based John C Martin Foundation. The Covid-19 pandemic has made the institute switch its focus for now. “The machine that was meant for hepatitis research has been re-purposed for Covid-19 studies. We are happy to contribute,” said hepatologist Abhjit Chaowdhury, secretary LFWB. Till now Arunachal has reported only one positive case of Covid-19. All the nearly 400 samples collected from suspected patients in the state were sent to the ICMR laboratory in Dibrugarh via road. Therefore, it would take 48 hours to get the reports. “We are giving final touches. Our team will be ready to start testing samples soon. We expect things to be faster and easier with this machine,” said Jini.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/city-health-organisations-gift-to-help-arunachal-test-covid-samples/articleshow/75131198.cms||Sumati Yengkhom
April 14, 2020||Jaipur||Government schools in Rajasthan begin online classes||JAIPUR: Government schools on Monday launched virtual classes for students to prevent further loss to their academic year due to the pandemic. It has been named as project SMILE (Social Media Interface for Learning Engagement) under which government has created 20,000 WhatsApp groups where teachers are uploading content. Parents and teachers have been added in these groups and materials related to classes have been uploaded on it. School education minister Govind Singh Dotasra said Rajasthan is the first state to start this initiative. “To save any academic year losses, this step was taken. Every day at 9 am, study materials will be uploaded on the groups and parents/students can access it. Video content from classes 1 to 12 have also been uploaded in the groups,” said Dotasra. A YouTube channel and FB page have been created where all the contents will be uploaded so that parents who cannot connect via WhatsApp group can still visit and get the videos on social media platforms. Director of secondary education Sourabh Swami said they had released a poster on Monday regarding SMILE. “We will release a poster everyday informing about the contents of that day to students. Links to other social media platforms will also be shared,” said Swami.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/govt-schools-in-state-begin-online-classes/articleshow/75131654.cms||---
April 14, 2020||Bhopal||Protests erupt in Rewa over shifting of 2 NSA detainees||Bhopal: People in Rewa town protested the shifting of two persons booked under the National Security Act (NSA) in Indore and shifted to Sanjay Gandhi Hospital from Satna jail after they tested positive for Covid-19. The duo was allegedly involved in stone pelting on Indore police on April 7, after which Indore collector had booked them under NSA.As the news about the shifting of the two accused to Rewa hospital spread shopkeepers downed shutters and senior Congress leaders staged a gherao (sit-in) at the office of Rewa collector. The Congress leaders were later booked for violating the lockdown.People demanded that the duo, who were brought to Rewa on Sunday night, be shifted out of Vindhya region.Former MP chief minister Kamal Nath expressed concern over shifting the NSA detainees from one district to another despite the lockdown. "It is surprising that while there is lockdown in the state and many districts are under curfew and their boundaries sealed how those detained under NSA in Indore were sent to Satna. The accused have now tested Covid positive," Kamal Nath tweeted on Sunday.Former leader of opposition and senior Congress leader, Ajay Singh blamed the state government for 'importing' Covid-19 to the Vindhya region with a tweet "Vindhya region did not have a single case of Covid-19. Is the CM Shivraj Singh Chouhan trying to control corona or spread it? People are angry and before something happens, the Covid-19 positive brought from outside should be shifted outside the Vindhya region."Collector Satna, Ajay Katesaria told the media that two NSA detainees sent from Indore had symptoms of Covid-19 after which they were tested and found positive on Sunday. Five under trails and 12 members of the prison staff were quarantined. Also, the Satna central jail and residential colony was declared a containment area.Jail authorities maintained that there is no threat to other detainees in the jail as those who tested positive for Covid-19 were in isolation barracks at the jail.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/protests-erupt-in-rewa-over-shifting-of-2-nsa-detainees/articleshow/75130683.cms||---
April 14, 2020||Surat||Gujarat to expand scope of Covid-19 tests with more labs, new method||AHMEDABAD: Facing criticism for comparatively fewer number of tests for identifying Covid-19 suspect cases, state officials on Monday evening said that they are expanding the scope of testing further with an increase in coverage of geographic area and persons tested. On Monday, Gujarat registered 56 fresh Covid-19 positive cases taking the total tally to 572 cases. Death toll in the state climbed to 26 deaths after two more deaths — one each from Ahmedabad and Vadodara – were recorded on Monday. Vadodara saw the death of a youth. “A 27-year-old man has died at Gotri Hospital on Sunday night. He was already under treatment for dengue and his father and uncle were identified positive cases.” A 76-year-old man, admitted in SVP Hospital in Ahmedabad, succumbed to the infection on Monday. He had co-morbidity in form of heart and lung disease including pulmonary fibrosis, said senior health officials. Jayanti Ravi, principal secretary (health & family welfare), said that apart from the current testing labs approved by ICMR for the Covid-19 tests, they are also ramping up facilities at GMERS Sola, GCRI, NIOH, SMIMER, etc. which would soon get permission. “With the new labs, we would have capacity of 5,000 tests and we would also be able to run the lab round the clock,” she said. Ravi said that in terms of tests per million (10 lakh) population, Gujarat is third in country with 219 tests. Only Kerala with 448 tests and Maharashtra with 317 tests lead Gujarat in testing. “In fact, in past 24 hours, Gujarat processed about 16% of India’s total samples. Our positive case rate (positive cases per 100 tests) is at 4.1%,” she said. Due to random testing introduced in the districts where no cases have been registered so far, two positive cases from Banaskantha were found on Monday. The testing would also be conducted in areas apart from identified hotspots, said health department officials. Ahmedabad city and district recorded 38 of 56 cases on Monday with survey intensified in various identified hotspots, said health department officials. State labs will have capacity of conducting 5,000 testsJayanti Ravi, principal secretary (health & family welfare), said that apart from the current testing labs approved by ICMR for the Covid-19 tests, they are also ramping up facilities at GMERS Sola, GCRI, NIOH, SMIMER, etc. which would soon get permission. “With the new labs, we would have capacity of 5,000 tests and we would also be able to run the lab round the clock,” she said. Ravi said that in terms of tests per million (10 lakh) population, Gujarat is third in country with 219 tests. Only Kerala with 448 tests and Maharashtra with 317 tests lead Gujarat in testing. “In fact, in past 24 hours, Gujarat processed about 16% of India’s total samples. Our positive case rate (positive cases per 100 tests) is at 4.1%,” she said. Ahmedabad city and district recorded 38 of 56 cases on Monday with survey intensified in various identified hotspots, said health department officials.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/guj-to-expand-scope-of-tests-with-more-labs-new-method/articleshow/75131959.cms||---
April 14, 2020||Vadodara||Gujarat to expand scope of Covid-19 tests with more labs, new method||AHMEDABAD: Facing criticism for comparatively fewer number of tests for identifying Covid-19 suspect cases, state officials on Monday evening said that they are expanding the scope of testing further with an increase in coverage of geographic area and persons tested. On Monday, Gujarat registered 56 fresh Covid-19 positive cases taking the total tally to 572 cases. Death toll in the state climbed to 26 deaths after two more deaths — one each from Ahmedabad and Vadodara – were recorded on Monday. Vadodara saw the death of a youth. “A 27-year-old man has died at Gotri Hospital on Sunday night. He was already under treatment for dengue and his father and uncle were identified positive cases.” A 76-year-old man, admitted in SVP Hospital in Ahmedabad, succumbed to the infection on Monday. He had co-morbidity in form of heart and lung disease including pulmonary fibrosis, said senior health officials. Jayanti Ravi, principal secretary (health & family welfare), said that apart from the current testing labs approved by ICMR for the Covid-19 tests, they are also ramping up facilities at GMERS Sola, GCRI, NIOH, SMIMER, etc. which would soon get permission. “With the new labs, we would have capacity of 5,000 tests and we would also be able to run the lab round the clock,” she said. Ravi said that in terms of tests per million (10 lakh) population, Gujarat is third in country with 219 tests. Only Kerala with 448 tests and Maharashtra with 317 tests lead Gujarat in testing. “In fact, in past 24 hours, Gujarat processed about 16% of India’s total samples. Our positive case rate (positive cases per 100 tests) is at 4.1%,” she said. Due to random testing introduced in the districts where no cases have been registered so far, two positive cases from Banaskantha were found on Monday. The testing would also be conducted in areas apart from identified hotspots, said health department officials. Ahmedabad city and district recorded 38 of 56 cases on Monday with survey intensified in various identified hotspots, said health department officials. State labs will have capacity of conducting 5,000 testsJayanti Ravi, principal secretary (health & family welfare), said that apart from the current testing labs approved by ICMR for the Covid-19 tests, they are also ramping up facilities at GMERS Sola, GCRI, NIOH, SMIMER, etc. which would soon get permission. “With the new labs, we would have capacity of 5,000 tests and we would also be able to run the lab round the clock,” she said. Ravi said that in terms of tests per million (10 lakh) population, Gujarat is third in country with 219 tests. Only Kerala with 448 tests and Maharashtra with 317 tests lead Gujarat in testing. “In fact, in past 24 hours, Gujarat processed about 16% of India’s total samples. Our positive case rate (positive cases per 100 tests) is at 4.1%,” she said. Ahmedabad city and district recorded 38 of 56 cases on Monday with survey intensified in various identified hotspots, said health department officials.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/guj-to-expand-scope-of-tests-with-more-labs-new-method/articleshow/75131957.cms||---
April 14, 2020||Hyderabad||Telangana: Tackling spread through second contacts a challenge||HYDERABAD: With coronavirus positive cases in Telangana seeing an unprecedented surge after last week’s dip, the government is now worried about its spread through second contacts. The coronavirus outbreak appears to have reached the widespread secondary contact stage as seen in Europe and the US and earlier witnessed in China and South Korea. According to senior officials, the spike in the number of cases is mainly due to increasing number of secondary contact cases. However, all these people are under government or home quarantine whose samples are still being tested. Officials said the spreading of Covid-19 through second contacts is worrying the top brass of the government. “This spread of virus is mainly happening in Hyderabad area,” they said. Giving an example of a case of a second contact in Hyderabad’s upscale area, an official said that a 22-year-old, working as a lab technician, under home quarantine had tested positive a few days ago. Three members in her family tested positive on Monday and they were first contacts. But, the technician is a second contact as she did not get the virus from her family members. “While working in a private hospital, she contracted the virus. Fifteen medical staff who worked closely with her are now under quarantine. Now that it is established that she is a second contact, officials are looking out for more persons who may have come in contact with her,” officials said. “It is becoming a complicated and vicious cycle. From first contacts to second contacts and vice-versa,” an official said. On Monday, a group of people were found to be positive as they had gone to attend a small gathering. “Such cases are also treated as second contact cases as they did not contract the virus directly from their family members. All these people are also under quarantine now,” officials said. But, what could comfort the officials is the fact that there were no new cases of those who are not under quarantine. Officials, however, said more caution is required in coming days as many samples are likely to be tested who are under quarantine.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/tackling-spread-through-2nd-contacts-a-challenge/articleshow/75130678.cms||Sribala Vadlapatla
April 14, 2020||Jaipur||People queue up outside banks||JAIPUR: Violating the lockdown and social distancing norms, people were seen queued up outside banks in many areas of the state. They waited for hours to withdraw money deposited by the government into their accounts under various schemes. During lockdown, the government had announced to put Rs 2,000 in the bank accounts of people under various schemes like Prime Minister Jan Dhan Yojna or Pradhan Mantri Gareeb Kalyan Yojna while Rs 500 had to be deposited for widows and elderly people. In Fatehgarh, people, mostly women, were seen queued up outside banks in extreme heat of 37 degrees Celsius. Several cases of people misbehaving with the bank employees were reported when no money was found deposited in their accounts. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/people-queue-up-outside-banks/articleshow/75131653.cms||---
April 14, 2020||Hyderabad||Excise crackdown: 675 cases filed for stocking, selling liquor amid lockdown||HYDERABAD: The excise department’s crackdown during the lockdown period has led to registering of 675 cases for stocking up and selling liquor. All these people were not licensed liquor shop owners but individuals who stored and sold liquor during this period. Cases were also booked against 16 liquor shop owners. Excise minister V Srinivas Goud has directed the officials to keep an eye on those trying to transport or serve liquor to people and make moolah during this period. He said licences of shops would be annulled if owners were caught aiding the culprits. “Action will also be taken against officials for failing to take immediate action on the culprits,” the minister said. Of the 675 cases, 235 cases were booked in Khammam district alone, which shares a border with Chhattisgarh. In GHMC area, 65 cases were booked, officials said. Officials also booked a case against two persons for selling liquor to a group of labourers, a video of which has gone viral. Excise officials said cases of those who had complained of withdrawal symptoms in hospitals had reduced. Though there were several cases reported earlier in the state , the numbers have seen a substantial fall. “In the beginning, several cases had to be dealt with. Now, two or three cases are being reported,” an official said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/excise-crackdown-675-cases-filed-for-stocking-selling-liquor-amid-lockdown/articleshow/75130687.cms||---
April 14, 2020||Chandigarh||NHAI seeks govt permission to complete Ludh-Chd highway||Ludhiana: The work on the Ludhiana-Chandigarh national highway, which stopped when curfew was announced to control the spread of Covid-19, may begin soon, but with proper social distancing norms. The National Highway Authority of India (NHAI) has taken up the matter with the Union and state government. The major portion of the work in Ludhiana has already been completed. NHAI officials said work was stopped not only in the Chandigarh-Ludhiana project but on all such projects across India. They added that last week NHAI authorities had requested the Punjab government to allow them to complete the remaining work, which they had to abandon due to the on going lockdown. NHAI officials further said the request is under consideration of the government and hopefully it will be allowed in a day or two, when the government draws a strategy for the next phase of the lockdown. They added that after that NHAI will take final decision about other under construction projects. “We will comply with each and every parameter in view of the present circumstances, including ensuring social distancing of work force etc. As of now, out of 76km planned, we have completed 71km. In Ludhiana, work is pending at Bhaini Sahib (where land is being acquired for flyover) and Samrala byepass where trees are to be cut for widening of road. Once we get permission we can complete the work in Ludhiana in a month or two,” said K L Sachdeva, project director of NHAI. He added that of the five kilometers pending, the stretches where the work is to be done include Khanpur, Daddu Majra (both in Mohali district), Khand Mandpur in Fatehgarh Sahib (where they have challenged the land acquisition rates), and Samrala Byepass and Bhaini Sahib. NHAI officials said work is also pending at Sanghol due to the proximity of a Buddhist stupa near the road, the Archaeological Survey of India (ASI) has stopped work. They added that road and highway ministry has written to the concerned ministry and the matter is under consideration. Before the work had stopped, a meeting of senior representative of NHAI and chief secretary-level officer of the state government was held on March 13 wherein the various bottlenecks in the project were discussed. The senior officer of the state government had “directed” the departments concerned in various districts to get the bottlenecks removed by March 31. But before that could fruition, the curfew was imposed in the state. NHAI officials were hopeful that if all bottlenecks are cleared by March 31, they will complete the work of road in Ludhiana district by June end and the remaining work till Mohali will be completed by August end and till Chandigarh by September 30. They had added that they might start the toll collection at toll plazas near Khanpur and Ghulal villages in the first week of April, but the plans couldn’t be executed after the curfew was imposed. Meanwhile, people living along the highway are waiting for completion of the project. “Though the corona scare has stopped the work, we would be happy if this is completed soon. This will shorten the distance between our village and Chandigarh and Ludhiana,” said Manjeet Singh, a farmer of Sanghol.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/nhai-seeks-govt-permission-to-complete-ludh-chd-highway/articleshow/75130689.cms||Shariq Majeed
April 14, 2020||Rajkot||Gujarat: Youth killed over suspicion of love affair in Rapar||RAJKOT: A man murdered a 22-year-old youth suspecting him of having an affair with his sister in Rapar of Kutch district on Sunday night. Police said the accused, identified as Hitesh Gohel (23), had slit the throat of Kanji Rathod. “Gohel called up Rathod outside his house while the latter was having his dinner. When Rathod came out, Gohel attacked him with a knife, dealing him several stabbing wounds on his body and slitting his throat,” said R M Vasava, inspector with Rapar police station. Gohel was booked on the complaint of Rathod’s brother Amarsinh, who alleged that Hitesh used to suspect Rathod of having an affair with his sister, over which both of them would fight frequently.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/youth-killed-over-suspicion-of-love-affair/articleshow/75130686.cms||---
April 14, 2020||Pune||Pune: Wastepicker finds purse, returns it to rightful owner||PUNE: As a wastepicker associated with the Solid Waste Collection and Handling (SWaCH) Collective, Lakshmi Chavan (40) lives a hand-to-mouth existence. Whatever money she earns is not enough to feed her family of four. But she did not have any slightest hesitation in returning a purse, containing a few crisp notes, she found on Friday to the rightful owner. Chavan was returning home with 30kg ration, she had collected for her and two slum dwellers, on her head when she saw the purse falling off a woman driving a two-wheeler. She called out to her, but she did not respond. Determined that the purse needed to be handed over to its owner, Chavan dropped her ration at her Chavan Juna Topkhana slum in Shivajinagar and asked some people to keep a watch over it. Then she proceeded to the Shimla office police chowky. The officials there called a phone number found inside the purse. The owner turned out to be a policewoman. Happy at getting back her purse, she asked the officials to reward her with Rs500. "With that money, I bought vegetables and some other daily necessities," she said. "The day I found the purse, I did not have a single penny with me. With the scrap work closed, there is no daily income, which has really hit us hard," said Chavan. Even getting ration has become difficult for her these days. Chavan lives with her 17-year-old son. She also takes care of two girls from the neighbourhood who lost their parents in childhood. However, she doesn’t think she has done anything extraordinary. "Taking what is not ours will not bring us anything good. I am sure if the reverse had happened, the policewoman would have helped me too," said Chavan.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/wastepicker-finds-purse-returns-it-to-rightful-owner/articleshow/75131213.cms||Ardhra Nair
April 14, 2020||Jaipur||Man arrested for making fake call in Jaipur||JAIPUR: A man in Bikaner was arrested on Monday for calling the helpline in Jaipur and claiming that he did not have ration. The accused was identified as Bhupindra Arora. After receiving the call, the district administration carried out a verification and found that Bhupindra was not needy. Khajuwala tehsildar filed a complaint following which the accused was arrested for making fake call. “The tehsildar went to personally inquire Bhupindra’s situation. His claims were found false and we arrested the accused on Monday,” said Ramesh Kumar, SHO, Kolwa police station.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/man-arrested-for-making-fake-call/articleshow/75131656.cms||---
April 14, 2020||Vijayawada||Community kitchen serves 80,000 people daily||TIRUPATI: Since March 28, a community kitchen in the temple city has been providing food to nearly 80,000 people twice every day. It began when Bhumana Abhinay Reddy, a local YSRC youth-wing leader appealed to the Tirumala Tirupati Devasthanams that he wanted to cook and provide free meals to the poor and the destitute in Tirupati. After the TTD management readily agreed to extend its support, about 40 like-minded people joined hands with Abhinay Reddy. These 40 youngsters, who come from diverse fields — from entrepreneurs to small-time traders — along with TTD support have distributed more than 14 lakh food packets, 70,000-80,000 food packets everyday, so far. Leaving behind their corporate boardrooms and comfort zones, these youngsters, who work in two shifts between 7 am - 2 pm and 4 pm - 9 pm every day at TTD’s Srinivasam Complex in the city, ensure that not a single person in the city starves during this crisis. Speaking to TOI, Abhinay Reddy said there are about 42 slums spread across 50 wards under the municipal corporation limits. “Before we started the free food distribution, people, including children and elderly, residing in these slums were starving as all shops are closed. But today, with TTD’s support, the poor have access to free food twice a day,” he said. “There were several challenges when we first started. While TTD has the resources to cook food, identifying the needy and distributing them at the doorsteps is challenging. To overcome these challenges, we roped in nearly 400 odd YSRC youth-wing workers who know the city well. Today, free food is being distributed in a systematic manner every single day”, added the YSRC youth wing leader. Abhinay Reddy thanked Tirupati MLA B Karunakar Reddy, TTD chairman YV Subba Reddy, his set of 40-odd friends and the YSRC activists for coming together to ensure the needy have access to two square meals a day free of cost.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/community-kitchen-serves-80k-people-daily/articleshow/75129902.cms||Sandeep Raghavan
April 14, 2020||Hyderabad||Pastor booked for Easter service in Hyderabad||HYDERABAD: A pastor was booked by the KPHB police for organizing Easter service, in violation of lockdown rules, at a worship place on Sunday. “We received information at 5.30 am and a team of cops on patrolling duty went to the spot. The team found George conducting prayers with 25 people at the worship place in violation of the lockdown rules. We dispersed the gathering after collecting evidence and registered a case against George,” KPHB inspector S Laxmi Narayana said. In other violations, KPHB police booked cases against truck driver, P Ramesh, for spitting on the road , Ch Venkata Bhaskara Rao and K Maheshwar Reddy for selling masks at excess price. TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/pastor-booked-for-easter-service/articleshow/75130695.cms||---
April 14, 2020||Jaipur||Muslim neighbours help Hindu family in Jaipur perform a funeral||JAIPUR: Amid fear and paranoia created by the Covid-19 pandemic and related lockdown, an example of Hindu-Muslim brotherhood in the city holds out as a ray of hope in these trying times. Members of the Muslim community on Monday helped a Hindu family perform the funeral of a 36-year-old man who died of cancer. The Muslim neighbours of the deceased at Sanjay Nagar Kachchi Basti under Bhatta Basti police station area not only arranged for a priest to perform the rites, they also chanted religious mantras and helped the family with the rites at the funeral ground in Chandpole. According to locals, the deceased, identified as Rajendra Bhagri, was suffering from cancer and was bedridden.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/muslim-neighbours-help-hindufamily-in-city-perform-a-funeral/articleshow/75131216.cms||Ashish Mehta
April 14, 2020||Kanpur||31 quarantined suspects test negative in Kanpur||KANPUR: No fresh Covid-19 suspect case was reported in the city on Monday whereas 31 persons, who were quarantined on suspecion, tested negative for the virus. So far, 936 Covid-19 suspects have been cured while around 5865 suspected persons are in still quarantined either in the district hospitals or and at their homes. Eleven corona positive cases have been recorded in the city so far, one person got fully cured and is now living a normal life and following precautions in his home as per the protocol while the remaining ten people are being treated in hospitals. The district administration maintained a strict vigil in the hotspot areas of the city and did not allow anyone to come out on roads, and used drone for aerial supervision of these areas. Kanpur Municipal Corporation (KMC) continued the sanitization work almost in the entire city. Around 56 persons have been benefitted under the tele-medicine programme. Meanwhile, many people have donated money in the chief minister’s relief fund and the prime minister care fund for the poor and the needy. Jajmau Tanneries Association donated Rs 15 lakh in the chief minister’s fund. Indra Mohan Rohatgi, a retired professor, presented a cheque of Rs 2 lakh in the fund. Sanatan Dharm Sansthan Kaushalpuri besides donating Rs 1.25 lakh in chief minister’s fund also distributed 300 masks and 300 sanitizer bottles. Srikant Mishra, a retired principal, donated Rs one lakh to the Sadhbhawana Samiti. Kanpur Institute of Technology contributed 130 PPE suits for corona fighters. Vipul Jain and Brijesh presented the PPE boxes to district magistrate Brahmadeo Ram Tiwari who handed them over to Prof RK Maurya, who is supervising the Covid-19 hospital. Sneha Divyang Jan Sansthan gave around 2000 masks and 1500 packets of porridge for distribution among the needy.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kanpur/31-quarantined-suspects-test-negative/articleshow/75131225.cms||---
April 14, 2020||Jaipur||State allows brick kilns to operate, but there’s no fuel||Jaipur: The state government has allowed opening of brick kilns during the lockdown subject to certain rules.With this, operations of around 1,500 kilns in the state, including 215 in Jaipur, will start. As these kilns will be closed during monsoon, permission has been given to the start operations, in order to give construction industry a push after lockdown is opened. “Around 50 to 60 lakh bricks are produced in one unit. If permission was not issued, the construction industry would have come to a grinding halt in absence of bricks after the lockdown ends as kilns are shut during monsoon,” said Raman Chaudhary, an owner.It is believed that the move will prevent the exodus of migrant labourers in large numbers as approximately 50 families work at one unit. “The home department has laid down the rules for the owners. Labourers will not be allowed to move out of the unit. Moreover, they have to follow social distancing. The purchase of food items for labourers will be made by the owners,” said Dharmendra Singh, another owner.Even, though permission has been issued, many fear the operation could not continue for long in absence of fuel to run these kilns. “We use coal, agricultural residue like mustard stalk as fuel in these kilns. As transportation is banned due to lockdown, these kilns can’t be run for long,” said another owner.The current supply of coal is from the US and Indonesia in the state as Indian collieries are closed due to a National Green Tribunal order. The state receives coals as it arrive at the ports of Gujarat. However, as borders are sealed, there is disruption in supply.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/state-allows-brick-kilns-to-operate-but-theres-no-fuel/articleshow/75131223.cms||---
April 14, 2020||Rajkot||Family disputes lead to two murders in Rajkot||RAJKOT: Two murder cases owing to family disputes were reported from two different places in Rajkot district in the past 24 hours. In the first case, a man had clubbed his father to death in Modhuka village of Vichhiya taluka. Accused Ashok Gorvadia (43), beat his father Bhikha Gorvadia with sticks with the help of two aides, Ahmed Solanki and an unidentified associate. Though the crime was committed on April 4, the accused was arrested only on Monday, after his family confessed to his crime. Earlier they tried to mislead the cops claiming that the 70-year-old man was attacked and killed by unidentified assailants. Gorvadia succumbed to his injuries at a hospital on April 10. “We found the statements of Ashok’s family members dubious and interrogated them further. They broke down and confessed to Ashok’s crime and said it was the result of a long-standing dispute pertaining to his share in ancestral land. His father had even thrown him out of his house, a decade ago, for this reason. Nursing a grudge against his father, Ashok decided to kill him,” said M J Parmar, sub-inspector with Vichhiya police station. The other case pertains to the frustration of an estranged man in Kalasar village who desperately wanted to bring his wife back home. Accused Baldev Mevasia (26), stabbed his sister-in-law Nimu Koli (30) on Monday when she had tried to intervene in a fight between him and her brother, Dhanji Dumadia, in this regard. According to the police, Mevasia, a resident of Baldhoi village of Jasdan, had gone to Kalasar to woo his wife back from her parental home. Mevasia’s wife Rekha had walked out on him, following a dispute. While Mevasia was trying to convince Rekha, his brother-in-law Dhanji Dumadia intervened and picked up a fight with Mevasia. Mevasia is still at large and police have launched a manhunt to nab him.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/family-disputes-lead-to-two-murders/articleshow/75130702.cms||---
April 14, 2020||Jaipur||Many switch to post office payment system||JAIPUR: There has been a 70% rise in the number of users for Aadhaar-enabled payment system of India Post in Rajasthan since lockdown was clamped . Under this system, anyone with an Aadhaar-linked bank account can get up to Rs 10,000 at his doorstep through the postman. Since the lockdown, people have not been able to move out of their houses, so they have been adopting these means to get cash on their doorstep. The postman carries a bio-metric device to get the finger print after which money is provided. Chief post master B P Sarangi said the system is popular in rural areas. “We launched this a year ago across the state, but users have increased massively during lockdown. A toll-free number has been provided where people can contact the nearest post office” Sarangi said. As per the data provided by India Post office, from April 1 to April 12 they completed 26,000 transactions dispensing Rs 5 crore to the people. From March 1 to March 12, this number was just 14,000. This shows an increase in transactions after the lockdown and its projected rise. Looking at the wider reach of this facility, Dholpur district administration has issued an advisory to use this system for withdrawing money.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/many-switch-to-post-office-payment-system/articleshow/75131655.cms||---
April 14, 2020||Ahmedabad||‘13 more ‘Sura’ Jamaatis +ve’||Ahmedabad: Out of the 128 ‘Sura’ jamaat members identified, 13 more have tested positive for Covid-19, said DGP Shivanand Jha. Jha added that those who have tested positive among Sura jamaatis include one from Bharuch, five from Tamil Nadu, two from Haryana and two from Hyderabad and rest are from other cities across the state. Earlier, three members had tested positive. Until now, 1,095 ‘Sura’ jamaat members have been identified staying in Gujarat. The DGP expressed concerns about strict implementation of lockdown, especially in the cluster-quarantined areas. He said that the areas are barricaded, and drones are keeping watch from above. “We have also deployed terrace points in the inner areas where drones cannot keep a watch and strict vigil is being maintained to prevent unauthorized exits and entries,” Jha said. In villages, police have tied up with sarpanches and nominated ‘police mitras’ to ensure none from outside enter villages without permission, Jha said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/13-more-sura-jamaatis-ve/articleshow/75130688.cms||---
April 14, 2020||Ahmedabad||1918 Spanish Flu cure ordered by doctors was contraindicated in Gandhiji’s principles||AHMEDABAD: The Covid-19 outbreak is an unsettling reminder of a century-old pandemic, the Spanish Flu. The flu had reduced India’s population by an estimated 1.7 crore in 1918. Even Mahatma Gandhi, leading India’s freedom movement, was not spared by the flu.  Many historians recount Gandhiji’s illness. The book titled “The Spanish Influenza Pandemic of 1918-1919: New Perspectives”, edited by David Killingray and Howard Pillip, says: “Influenza raged in the Sabarmati Ashram, Ahmedabad, where Mahatma Gandhi, Charles Andrews and Shankarlal Parikh were all affected.” Almost all historians have noted Gandhiji’s reluctance to follow some orders of his doctors because they clashed with his principles. But they all describe how he later gave in to doctors’ advice, prodded by his wife, Kasturba.  Laura Spinney in her “Pale Rider: The Spanish Flu of 1918 and How it Changed the World” says, “Medics came to give him the benefit of their advice, but he rejected most of it. Many of them remonstrated with him over his vow not to drink milk — the result of his disgust at the practice of phooka, in which air is blown forcefully into a cow’s vagina to induce her to lactate.” Spinney goes on to say: “Supported by Kasturba, one doctor argued that on those grounds, he could have no objection to drinking goat’s milk, since phooka was not practiced on goats.” Gandhiji agreed, “but bitterly regretted it later,” the historian noted and quoted Gandhiji saying to an associate later, “To abandon one’s guiding philosophy in the interest of living was unacceptable: this protracted and first long illness in my life thus afforded me a unique opportunity to examine my principles and to test them.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/1918-spanish-flu-cure-ordered-by-docs-was-contraindicated-in-gandhijis-principles/articleshow/75130706.cms||Saeed Khan
April 14, 2020||Vijayawada||Now, Andhra Pradesh prison inmates to produce masks, sanitisers||VIJAYAWADA: The sudden surge in the number of coronavirus (Covid-19) cases in Andhra Pradesh has led to an increased demand for alcohol-based hand sanitisers and face masks. However, most stores have run out of stock and demand seems to only increase. Prisoners in four central jails — Visakhapatnam, Nellore, Rajahmundry and Kadapa, have been roped in to manufacture face masks in bulk, while those is Visakhapatnam prisons will manufacture hand sanitisers to meet the demand. Sources said that the Drug Control Administration (DCA) will give temporary permission to the prisons department to manufacture hand sanitisers. The authorities have been asked not to supply the finished product at a price higher than what has been fixed by the governments. “The prisons department will procure the raw material needed to prepare hand sanitisers and the inmates have been trained on the procedure,” inspector general of prisons G Jayavardhan told TOI. “Currently, the inmates of four central prisons in the state are producing over 6,000 to 7,000 face masks a day. Now, they will help meet the demand for sanitisers,” Jayavardhan said. If everything goes as planned, the prisoners in Vizag Central Prison will manufacture at least 2,000 litres of hand sanitisers a day, said a senior officer with prisons department. So far, the inmates of four central prisons in the state have produced over 1.2 lakh masks. These are being supplied to the officials of medical and health, municipality, police, revenue and a few other departments, who have been deployed to enforce the lockdown. A few private organisations have procured the masks for distribution among employees. Speaking to TOI, superintendent of Vizag Central Prison S Rahul and superintendent of Nellore Central Prison MR Ravi Kiran said that prison inmates are manufacturing three-layered elastic band and thread variety reusable face masks. They further said each mask is sold for Rs 15. Meanwhile, sources said that the prisons are capable of producing more masks as the inmates are skilled, but shortage of cloth and other machinery is hindering the production. The prisons department is taking steps to ensure proper packing for small units such as 100 ml, 200 ml and 500 ml sanitisers besides bulk supply of 1 to 5 litres for hospitals and other establishments.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/now-ap-prison-inmates-to-produce-masks-sanitisers/articleshow/75129911.cms||---
April 14, 2020||Jaipur||Around 80% cases in Ramganj are asymptomatic, says government||JAIPUR: About 70-80% of positive cases coming out of Old City area including Ramganj are in the asymptomatic category, which means less burden on critical care facilities in the hospitals, lower rate of fatality, and containing the spread of infection, said Ajitabh Sharma, principal secretary of energy department and nodal officer for Jaipur city. He said the priority is to keep the mortality rate as low as possible and to achieve that, they have been going aggressive on sample testing and segregating the asymptomatic cases also from the community before they spread the infection unknowingly among hundreds of people. “Against our target of 2,000 people, we have sample tested 3,500 in four days. Now, we have expanded the target by another 10,000 in the city, including 5,000 in the Ramganj area where the asymptomatic cases are as high as 70-80%,” Sharma told TOI. The percentage of positive cases in comparison to sample tests is about 9% in Ramganj, which is higher than normal. That is why the administration has expanded sample testing beyond the hotspot pockets and formed 30 clusters in the locality. “It is mathematically random testing. If we are doing 30 houses, we ensure there is no gap. It takes time because we don’t want to break the chain by leaving out a single house for some reason or the other. We have completed 15 clusters as on Monday,” added Sharma. With regard to the sample testing in the outer city areas, he said the current practice is that if somebody falls ill and tests positive, the treatment is provided and the locality is sealed and screened. “But, we want to be proactive and random test people in the outer city as well, in localities where people live in congested and slum areas. The 5,000 sample testing target also includes super-spreaders, the essential service providers in these areas,” added Sharma. The Covid-19 mortality rate in Rajasthan is one of the lowest in the country but senior citizens are in the high risk zone. “We will launch a mobile app for senior citizens. Once they fill in the symptoms in the app, they can have some idea if there is any possibility of infection. If there is a doubt, our dedicated team will reach them,” said Sharma. So far, the government has identified 80 hospitals in the city having bed capacity of 9,500, while another 5,000 quarantine rooms or beds have been arranged for any exigencies. “We have decided to use SMS Hospital, RUHS, Mahatma Gandhi Hospital or JNU Hospital for the senior citizens and patients with co-morbidity conditions. This is again to ensure that nobody succumbs to the virus. In case of mild or asymptomatic cases, they don’t need critical care. As of now, the use of ventilators is minuscule and that reflects in the lower fatality ratio in the state,” said Sharma.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/around-80-cases-in-ramganj-are-asymptomatic-says-govt/articleshow/75131243.cms||Srikanta Tripathy
April 14, 2020||Jaipur||Pump owners bleed as demand for fuel plummets||JAIPUR: As the lockdown has severely hit the demand for petrol and diesel in the state, petrol pump dealers have asked for financial assistance from the government. The dealers claimed that sales have plummeted to 10% and business of Rs 2,543 crore has been affected in the state till date. Sunit Bagai, president, Rajasthan Petrol Diesel Association (RPDA) said, diesel sale in the state has touched 10%, which is resulting in massive loss. “There are 465 pumps in Jaipur district and around 4,300 in the state. Annually, 80 million litres of petrol and 560 crore litres of diesel is sold in the state. In the last 23 days, transactions worth Rs 343 crore in petrol and Rs 2,200 crore in diesel have been affected,” Bagai said. “The pump owners are operating with minimum employees, but they have to pay many fixed charges like meter fee, staff salary and bank fee. Dealers are incurring heavy losses,” said a petrol pump owner Many claimed that not only businessmen, but the government is also facing a revenue loss of Rs 800 crore per month after the sales decreased.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/pump-owners-bleed-as-demand-for-fuel-plummets/articleshow/75131235.cms||---
April 14, 2020||Bhubaneswar||Aid on doorstep for women facing domestic violence||Bhubaneswar: If everything goes as planned, women facing domestic violence in their houses during the lockdown will find cops on their doorstep for immediate assistance. The commissionerate police are planning to receive complaints from, and deliver FIR copies to, women’s homes. Though the city police have not yet compiled any data on whether cases related to domestic violence are on the rise, they said they are prepared to deal with such cases, if reported. “We realise that women in distress are unable to visit police stations during the lockdown. After receiving their complaints over telephone, our personnel will visit their houses and extend help. We will ensure that proper social distancing protocol is maintained by our personnel during counselling and interaction with the complainants in their houses. The women facing domestic violence will receive all police-related services on their doorstep,” additional commissioner of police Anup Kumar Sahoo said. Some states have reportedly witnessed a rise in domestic violence cases during the lockdown. The National Commission for Women (NCW) recently spoke to all state commissions and asked them to address the issues of the needy women. The state commission for women (SCW) said it is planning to issue a helpline number to address issues relating to atrocities against women during the lockdown. At present, the SCW office is closed as it is located in Satya Nagar that was declared a containment zone following detection of four positive cases recently. “We are only receiving complaints through email (oscw.od@nic.in). Since not many are conversant with technology, we are receiving fewer complaints through email. Efforts are on to launch a helpline number. After receiving complaints through email, we coordinate with police across the state for giving justice to the women. Our counsellors have been providing tele-counselling to the women in distress,” said Arabinda Pattanaik, SCW’s legal assistant. While the SCW used to receive at least 30 complaints related to domestic violence daily before the lockdown, they have received only two cases in the past 20 days. “We are also in touch with government’s Sakhi or One Stop Help Centres for women in districts. Women in distress can also seek help from the government’s 181 helpline number,” Pattanaik said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhubaneswar/aid-on-doorstep-for-women-facing-domestic-violence/articleshow/75128833.cms||Debabrata Mohapatra
April 14, 2020||Chandigarh||Man ‘steals’ Rs 3L from policeman||Ludhiana: A wrestling trainee has stolen Rs 3 lakh from salary account of superintendent of police (SP) deputed at 3rd Indian Reserve Battalion (IRB) in Ludhiana. The accused was wrestling training at an ‘akhara’ established by the police officer, who is also a professional wrestler. The accused has been identified as Dharminder Singh, 32, of Bharatpur of Rajasthan. Earlier, the SP had filed a complaint at police station Dugri in January, but no action was taken, as the akhara where the accused was living lies under Sadar police station. On Sunday, the SP filed a complaint at Sadar police, following which the FIR has registered. SP Kehar Singh, resident of Urban Estate of Dugri, said he runs an akhara in Manakwal village at Dhandhran road. Dharminder was getting wrestling training from the akhara and was also given accommodation there. The SP added that once he had handed over his debit card to the accused to withdraw cash from his account and also shared PIN with him. The accused had stolen his debit card and withdrawn Rs 72,000 from his account. He came to know about it when he received a call from the bank. He added that, when he checked, he identified that earlier also the accused had managed to withdraw Rs 3 lakh in cash from his account through multiple transactions. Assistant sub-inspector Paramjit Singh, who is investigating the case, said a case under section 379 (theft ) of IPC has been registered against the accused. A hunt is on for his arrest.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/man-steals-rs-3l-from-policeman/articleshow/75130710.cms||---
April 14, 2020||Kolhapur||Postal staff start giving out financial assistance||Kolhapur: Postal workers across the district have started the distribution of financial assistance under the Pradhan Mantri Garib Kalyan Yojna and Pradhan Mantri Shetkari Sanman Yojna on Monday. Kolhapur collector Daulat Desai has requested the beneficiaries of the schemes to stay indoors to avoid crowding at the banks. Rahul Mane, manager of the district lead bank, said the postmen associated with the post payment bank are distributing the aid to the beneficiaries with the help of Aadhaar Enabled Payment Systems (AEPS) machine. He said that even if any beneficiary fails to collect the aid, it will remain in the account and will not relapse. The account holders have been told to not believe in rumours pertaining to the distribution of the financial aid. Even the Satara district administration has requested the beneficiaries of the Pradhan Mantri Garib Kalyan Yojna to stay indoors and has asked the banks to provide a list of such beneficiaries to the district lead bank. Satara collector Shekhar Singh has instructed all the banks in the district to provide a list of village-wise beneficiaries to the lead bank. The lead bank will submit the list to the Satara post payment bank. The postman associated with the post payment bank will distribute the aid to the beneficiaries with the help of the Aadhaar Enabled Payment System (AEPS) units. He added that all the banks in the district — cooperative, nationalized or private — all are functional with between 8 am and 11 am. He said the district has around 468 ATM units, which too can be used. Meanwhile, 48 people have been tested negative for Covid-19 in Satara on Monday, while 15 with coronavirus-like symptoms have been admitted to the isolation wards of the district hospital, Satara, Krishna Hospital, Karad, and sub-district hospital in Phaltan. In Kolhapur district, shelter homes are hosting 832 citizens across 15 venues, said Desai. He added that the citizens have been put under institutional quarantine at these shelter homes located in Kolhapur city, Kagal, Hatkanagale, Wathar, Ichalkaranji, Jaysingpur, Gadhinglaj, and Gaganbawda areas of the district. He said that 226 residents are from Maharashtra and 606 are from other states. Most of the migrants are from Karnataka (217), followed by Tamil Nadu (214), Rajasthan (86), Madhya Pradesh (42) and Uttar Pradesh (29) among other||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolhapur/postal-staff-start-giving-out-financial-assistance/articleshow/75131232.cms||---
April 14, 2020||Hyderabad||Stressed over uncertain future, students lean on counsellers||HYDERABAD: The current nationwide lockdown is said to be causing great stress and anxiety within the student community with regard to their academics and placements. Counsellors, appointed by various educational institutions, are being approached in large numbers by students, who are seeking guidance on placements, exams, assessment, online classes etc. Following the University Grants Commission directions, many institutions had started psychological counselling for students to help them overcome stress and anxiety. Each counsellor is said to be receiving an average of four calls a day. “Fourth year students are worried about securing campus placements and their future. Many are also not confident about the feasibility of online exams and assessments,” said Vijaya Lakshmi, student counsellor at Chaitanya Bharathi Institute of Technology. Counsellors claim that students are stressed due lack of face-to-face interactions with peers and faculty members. “With daily routines disrupted and social lives coming to a sudden standstill, it’s difficult for many to adjust. For students the issues range from the suddenness with which they were asked to leave, the uncertainty of how the semester will come to an end,and so on,” said Priyanka Srivatsava, campus counselling coordinator at International Institute of Information Technology. The institute recently launched a Facebook page titled ‘IIIT Mental Health Forum’ where students can anonymously interact with professionals. Many companies have even deferred joining dates of students. “ My joining date which was scheduled in April-end has been deferred to August,” said Shilpi Vasireddy, a BTech final year student.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/stressed-over-uncertain-future-students-lean-on-counsellers/articleshow/75130712.cms||Preeti Biswas
April 14, 2020||Kolhapur||Crisis creates opportunity for Isolation Hospital’s upgrade||Kolhapur: Taking a cue from Albert Einstein’s quote “In the midst of every crisis, lies great opportunity,” the Kolhapur Municipal Corporation (KMC) has taken up the task to revamp the almost five-decade-old Isolation Hospital located at Shendapark during the ongoing coronavirus crisis.The hospital has been named after Dwarkanath Kotnis, the doctor who worked tirelessly for the Chinese in the late 1930s during the war waged by Japan against China.Since the lockdown started, the KMC has started strengthening the structure of the old building, added new beds and developed new wards. Even the development of an intensive care unit is underway. Currently, there are 30 beds reserved for Covid-19 patients, but there are no patients admitted to the hospital so far.The KMC has recruited six doctors to deal with the coronavirus crisis. The orders to join immediately have been issued to them. Currently, the KMC runs one major hospital, the Savitribai Phule General Hospital, where facilities of ICU and lab testings have been developed in the last couple of years. It caters to the patients from the core parts of the city.KMC’s chief health officer Dilip Patil said, “We have made the isolation hospital ready to treat Covid-19 patients. Currently, there are three cases in the city and the patients are undergoing treatment in other hospitals. We are using this time to develop the facilities at the Isolation Hospital. We have plans to set up a maternity ward and general health check-up facilities. The suburbs lack a major health centre. Once this crisis ends, we will focus on extending the hospital to benefit the citizens living in the suburbs.”Shendapark was in the city’s fringe when the Isolation Hospital was set up in 1972. It was mainly set up to isolate patients suffering from infectious diseases. During the early outbreaks of diseases, such as malaria, jaundice, diarrhoea and other diseases, the hospital served its purpose. In recent times, H1N1 patients have been quarantined in the hospital.A few months ago, paying heed to the KMC’s appeal, the State Bank of India decided to develop the premise of the Isolation Hospital. The old building needed repairs. The civic administration then repaired the structure and developed sanitation facilities. Patil said the ICU being developed is of secondary nature and it will be upgraded in the coming months.Former mayor Mahadevrao Adgule said, “There was no scope in our time to expand the hospital’s operations. Now it is the time to expand it and add more doctors. Ample space is available to expand the infrastructure.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolhapur/crisis-creates-opportunity-for-isolation-hospitals-upgrade/articleshow/75131247.cms||---
April 14, 2020||Jaipur||Rajasthan: Isolation wards at hostels, homes soon||JAIPUR: The social justice and empowerment department principal secretary Akhil Arora on Monday gave directions that isolation wards should be set up in the hostels, residential homes, old-age homes and Nari Niketans under the department for new entrants. "There are a very residential homes and hostels where people are still staying. These include old-age homes and Nari Niketans. There is a possibility that fresh people could join these hostels or residential homes. Hence, we will not be keeping them along with the inmates already staying there," said Ansh Deep, director and ex-officio joint secretary of the department. "There will be kept in isolation wards and will be under medical observation for 14 days. Once they are found to be in good health, will be sent to their respective rooms," he added. Directions have also been given to make arrangements for supply of ration and other items in these homes and hostels.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/isolation-wards-at-hostels-homes-soon/articleshow/75131248.cms||---
April 14, 2020||Bhopal||Damoh cop asked to stay in police lines after wife complains of poor hygiene||Bhopal: A constable in Damoh has been asked to stay at the police lines for a week by district superintendent of police after his wife lodged a complaint that he was not maintaining hygiene at home after returning from duty. She alleged the family was at risk of infection due to the negligence of the cop.“Every day, after long duty hours, when my husband returns home, he would reluctantly wash hands and would mix up soiled uniform with the other clothes of the family members risking coronavirus infection”, she told a senior police official.The constable is posted in Batiyagarh police station and the district police refused to identify him.SP Damoh Hemant Chouhan told TOI on Monday, “The constable ‘s wife had approached a CSP and complained about her husband”.He said when he learnt about the “valid concern raised” by the constable’s wife, “I asked the officials to not to allow him to go home for a week and ensure him to follow the cleanliness guidelines.”He said the frontline staff of the police force has been instructed to change their uniform and take bath at a designated place in every police station area. “All the facilities have been provided to them. Few set of clothes are available at the designated sites where they can change and the uniforms are washed carefully.”The SP said that "supply of essentials" for the cop’s family were being taken care of by the police.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/damoh-cop-asked-to-stay-in-police-lines-after-wife-complains-of-poor-hygiene/articleshow/75130723.cms||Deshdeep Saxena
April 14, 2020||Amaravati||Banks to remain closed in red zones||AMARAVATI: The state government has directed district collectors to suspend all banking operations in red zones till further instructions. After discussing the issue with top banking officials, the state government directed the district collectors to issue proceedings asking bankers to close down establishments. About 136 areas in 11 districts of AP have been declared as red zones. Confirming the same, Guntur district collector I Samuel Anand Kumar said, “We have declared 12 colonies in the city and one area each in Narasaraopet, Ponnur and Dachepalle as containment zones. Banking operations in all these areas will be stopped from Wednesday as Tuesday is a public holiday.” However, banks have to come up with alternate arrangements to enable beneficiaries of Jan Dhan accounts to withdraw amounts deposited by the Centre. The account holders are allowed to withdraw Rs 500 from their respective branches.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/amaravati/banks-to-remain-closed-in-red-zones/articleshow/75129920.cms||Samdani MN
April 14, 2020||Thiruvananthapuram||City corp links app-based CRS to Covid-19 help desk||Thiruvananthapuram: The city corporation has linked its app-based complaint redressal system (CRS) to the help desk which was recently launched as part of Covid-19 management measures. All department heads have been issued user ID and password and when a complaint or request is received via phone at the helpdesk, an alert is passed on to the official concerned. Mayor K Sreekumar has directed that the first response from the part of the official may be recorded within three hours and in case the status of the query or request has not changed after that, a follow up call is made to the official concerned from the team of volunteers who are running the help desk and grievance redressal system of the city corporation. CRS was integrated with corporation’s Smart Trivandrum mobile app as part of mayor’s grievance redressal system. “After CRS was integrated with the system, it has brought in so much transparency. We are effectively able to alert the official concerned and they are acting within the stipulated timelines, which helps in faster solutions,” said a corporation official. Mayor K Sreekumar said that he would personally take calls from priority groups seeking help for various needs on Wednesday and Friday. “We have been able to ensure quick response through linking of CRS and help desk. All official heads are part of this network and directions were issued to update status of response,” he said. The help desk has been set up by the city corporation primarily to cater to 15 groups who have been identified as priority groups who would need special care and attention in the current situation. These groups include elderly persons, those undergoing treatments for various serious ailments, immunosuppressed persons, disabled people and the like. The local self-government department has directed that those with heart diseases, respiratory ailments, and those undergoing cancer treatment shall be given help to obtain food kits, medicines and steps for reverse quarantine and counselling should also be initiated if necessary. Four requests were received at the help desk regarding delay in receiving old-age pension of which two problems could be solved within three hours, the officials said. There have also been requests regarding procuring ration from shops and calls were placed by the beneficiaries for volunteer help. Such calls were directed to health circles and volunteers were deployed to get the ration card and procure the ration from shops for those who can’t travel due to ailment or old age. The corporation has established a wide network of institutions at the help desk, which includes Kudumbasree units, urban health centre, major hospitals, police, community kitchens, ration shops, medical stores, ambulances, budget restaurants and online food delivery services.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/thiruvananthapuram/city-corp-links-app-based-crs-to-covid-19-help-desk/articleshow/75128850.cms||Aswin J Kumar
April 14, 2020||Bhubaneswar||Online training keeps Ravi busy||Berhampur: Not much has changed for K Ravi Kumar, who won a gold in weightlifting in the Men’s 69kg weightlifting category at the 2010 Commonwealth Games, ever since the lockdown was imposed. He continues to practise for two hours in the morning and evening like before. The only difference is that while he would do so in a club earlier, he now does it at home with limited equipment. “Though it is difficult to practise weightlifting with limited equipment in the house, I have no other option,” the thirty-one-year old Arjuna Award winner says. Apart from his usual practice sessions, he also trains some of his followers online. About 15 weightlifters from different states, including Odisha, West Bengal, Maharastra, Uttar Pradesh and New Delhi are being trained by him online where he shares videos and imparts lessons through video calls. “Earlier, they used to take tips through videos shared by me and accordingly practise in their respective clubs. Now I have been teaching them how to practise well remaining inside the home,” he says. “It may get boring at times to stay at home, but there is no other option. Staying at home, as advised by the government, is the only weapon we have to fight the novel coronavirus,” he says. “When I get bored, I help my mother and wife in the kitchen,” he adds. He says, “Since I had spent a large part of my sporting career in a mess outside the state, I have learnt how to cook different kinds of food and delicacies of different states.” These days he has also been watching television, especially Mahabharata and Ramayana.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhubaneswar/online-training-keeps-ravi-busy/articleshow/75128841.cms||Hrusikesh Mohanty
April 14, 2020||Chandigarh||Canada student’s body: Kin approach NGOs for help||Ludhiana: The family of the 22-year-old student, Priptal Singh, who was shot dead in Canada, is now approaching some NGOs in Canada seeking their help in bringing the body to India. On Monday, the family had also written to the external affairs minister and the Prime Minister’s Office. Pritpal from Sareen village had gone to Canada one-and-a-half year ago to pursue higher education after completing his schooling. In the wee hours of April 7, he was allegedly shot dead in Canada’s Surrey, by unidentified assailant. Amid this world wide lock-down, when international flights have been suspended, the family is seeking help from Government of India to bring back the body so they could see him for one last time and also perform his last rites. Father Shamsher Singh, who is an assistant sub-inspector with railway police said, “We are clueless about how to get this done. Another villager is helping us in writing to officials concerned, including to the ministry of external affairs and PM’s Office.” Shamsher also said with the help of the villager, they are getting in touch with some NGOs based in Canada. He has requested them to approach the government there to help them. “I will do everything possible to bring my son’s body here, rest is up to the God,” added Shamsher.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/canada-students-body-kin-approach-ngos-for-help/articleshow/75130726.cms||---
April 14, 2020||Hyderabad||Hyderabad duo serve liquor to poor laborers, arrested||HYDERABAD: Two men from the city wanted to emulate a person in Jalandhar by serving liquor to a group of persons during the lockdown and attain limelight by filming it. But, their video of serving liquor to labourers in Champapet had not only gone viral but also led to their arrest on Monday after Press Information of Bureau (PIB) alerted excise minister V Srinivas Goud. After nabbing Sanju Kumar and his accomplice Nitin, excise enforcement officials came to know that duo had videographed the act of serving liquor with an intention to become popular on social media platforms like TikTok and others. In the video, the duo was seen going to different places, near wine shops and toddy centres where some labourers were waiting in the hope that shutters would open. The duo served small pegs to each labourer and when some wanted more, the duo flatly refused citing they need to serve the liquor to others also. “The accused confessed that they were inspired by a similar video done by someone in Jalandhar,’’ officials said. One social media users brought it to the notice of PIB which, in turn, informed the minister. The excise officials of Saroornagar arrested nabbed Sanju and Nitin.Both were arrested under Section 34(A) of the Excise and Prohibition Act. Watch Covid-19: Two arrested after their video serving alcohol goes viral||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/duo-held-after-liquor-video-goes-viral/articleshow/75130730.cms||---
April 14, 2020||Rajkot||Covid-19 suspect woman flees isolation ward, nabbed||Rajkot: A woman along with her child fled from the isolation ward of the Rajkot Civil Hospital on Monday evening. However, the woman identified as Kashmir Ajmeri, was nabbed from her residence in Thorala by the officials of Thorala police station in a matter of minutes. “Ajmeri was admitted to the isolation ward of the hospital as a suspected Covid-19 case. We nabbed her along with her child and brought them back to the hospital,” said an official from Thorala police station.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/covid-19-suspect-woman-flees-isolation-ward-nabbed/articleshow/75130733.cms||---
April 14, 2020||Jaipur||10,000 more samples to be collected from Jaipur||JAIPUR: Nodal officer of Jaipur district for Covid-19 prevention Ajitabh Sharma on Monday said according to the action plan chalked out to check the spread of infection, about 5,000 more samples will be collected for tests from Walled City areas and another 5,000 will be collected from outside. In all, 20 additional medical teams of the health department will be set up for random sampling, he said. In all, 4,077 samples have been collected from April 8 to 13 in the city. On Monday, 490 samples were collected from 15 clusters at Ramganj and the Walled City areas. Samples from the remaining 15 clusters will be collected on Tuesday. “Some of these medical teams will also collect samples from slum areas. Primarily, samples will be collected from those places, outside the Walled City, where positive cases have been found. It will be ensured that the infection doesn’t spread outside,” he said. “The pattern of the containment plan has been finalised for all the positive cases that have come up in the Walled City,”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/10000-more-samples-to-be-collected-from-city/articleshow/75131246.cms||---
April 14, 2020||Kolhapur||144 who met Covid-19 +ve patient traced, say officials||Kolhapur: The number of close contacts of the Covid-19 patient, who had attended the Tablighi Jamaat meet in Delhi, has increased to 144 people, according to the Kolhapur health department officials. The patient’s father’s throat swab sample and a few others, who were with him, have tested negative for coronavirus. His mother, however, last week had contracted the infection and had tested positive. Yogesh Sale, the district health officer (DHO), Kolhapur told TOI that the number of close contacts which has been traced, has gone up to 144, while there are around 283 secondary contacts associated with the man. According to Sale, they have collected a few throat swab samples of close contacts, which tested negative. The rest of the contacts’ throat swab samples are being tested. Until then, the close contacts, who have tested negative will remain under institutional quarantine. He said that at present, the patient’s mother and the patient are stable and responding well to the treatment. The exact number of throat swab samples tested in regards to this case was unavailable with the concerned official. Minakshi Gajbhiye, the dean of Rajarshi Chhatrapati Shahu Maharaj Government Medical College and Chhatrapati Pramila Raje Rugnalaya (CPR) was also unreachable despite several attempts. A 30-year-old man from a village in the Shahuwadi taluka in Kolhapur, who attended Tablighi meet in March, tested positive for coronavirus on April 9. He had reached Kolhapur on March 16 via train and left for Malkapur via private vehicle. He was placed in the institutional quarantine at Panhala on April 1 along with others who had attended the Tablighi event, following which his throat swab sample was sent for testing.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolhapur/144-who-met-covid-19-ve-patient-traced-say-officials/articleshow/75131249.cms||---
April 14, 2020||Jaipur||Rajasthan farmers start Rabi harvest||JAIPUR: The farmers have started harvesting their crops in the earnest after the government announced lockdown relaxation for them for Rabi crop harvesting. The agriculture department had also announced that the farmers will be provided with cutting and threshing machines in the absence of labourers due to lockdown. Meanwhile, the Central government had enhanced the limit of procurement of mustard and gram from farmers to 40 quintals a day instead of a maximum of 25 quintals previously allowed. The Centre was urged to increase the purchase limit of 25 quintals a day to overcome the problems faced by farmers. Procurement will begin at Kota division from April 16 at 92 centres on April 16, said Sushma Arora, managing director, Rajfed. She said in other six divisions, except Kota, the purchase of mustard and gram will begin from May 1. She said adequate precaution and facilities will be provided to procurement centres to prevent corona infection. The number of procurement centres has been increased to ensure that farmers get a centre near their fields. The support price of mustard is Rs 4,425 and that of gram is Rs 4,875 per quintal. Sushma informed that so far 2.40 lakh farmers have registered for procurement of mustard and gram at support price and registration will be opened again from May 1.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/raj-farmers-start-rabi-harvest/articleshow/75131657.cms||---
April 14, 2020||Jaipur||Woman alleges rape by two in Dausa||JAIPUR: A Dalit woman was raped allegedly by two men including a railway employee in Dausa. The woman in the FIR claimed that she was going to meet a friend on April 7 when the accused forcibly caught her near a railway crossing following which they raped her. A team has been constituted to catch the two accused. The 18-year-old was apparently raped on April 7 night while she was on way to meet a friend and the incident was registered at Kolwa police station. Anil Chauhan, additional SP, Dausa, said, “The complainant claimed that she was going to meet a friend when she came across the two accused, who were at the railway crossing, and seeing no one around they caught hold of her and raped her.” According to the complainant, while one accused held her feet and arms, the other accused raped her. The girl has named the accused in the FIR and recognised them at the time of assault. A cop who wished to remain anonymous said, “We are doing our best to even investigate cases which appear to be genuine and in this case, our initial investigation has found that it is a true case. They might have followed her to the friend’s place, but we are still finding those details,” said the official. After the assault, she went back home and reported the matter to the local women’s commission office following which she was asked to lodge a case at the local police station. A case of gangrape has been lodged against the accused though they are yet to be arrested. (The victim's identity has not been revealed to protect her privacy as per Supreme Court directives on cases related to sexual assault)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/woman-alleges-rape-by-two-in-dausa/articleshow/75131658.cms||---
April 14, 2020||Jodhpur||Rajasthan farmers start Rabi harvest||JAIPUR: The farmers have started harvesting their crops in the earnest after the government announced lockdown relaxation for them for Rabi crop harvesting. The agriculture department had also announced that the farmers will be provided with cutting and threshing machines in the absence of labourers due to lockdown. Meanwhile, the Central government had enhanced the limit of procurement of mustard and gram from farmers to 40 quintals a day instead of a maximum of 25 quintals previously allowed. The Centre was urged to increase the purchase limit of 25 quintals a day to overcome the problems faced by farmers. Procurement will begin at Kota division from April 16 at 92 centres on April 16, said Sushma Arora, managing director, Rajfed. She said in other six divisions, except Kota, the purchase of mustard and gram will begin from May 1. She said adequate precaution and facilities will be provided to procurement centres to prevent corona infection. The number of procurement centres has been increased to ensure that farmers get a centre near their fields. The support price of mustard is Rs 4,425 and that of gram is Rs 4,875 per quintal. Sushma informed that so far 2.40 lakh farmers have registered for procurement of mustard and gram at support price and registration will be opened again from May 1.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jodhpur/raj-farmers-start-rabi-harvest/articleshow/75137320.cms||---
April 14, 2020||Bhubaneswar||Transport sector in ruins as economy’s wheels stop moving||Cuttack: The livelihood of more than 1.62 lakh truckers across the state is in peril due to the lockdown. Odisha State Truck Owners Federation (OSTOF) general secretary Rabi Narayan Satpathy told TOI on Monday that the outbreak of coronavirus and the resultant countrywide lockdown to contain its spread had led to temporary job loss for over 90 per cent of about 1.8 lakh truckers for more than two weeks now. “Only about 10,000 to 15,000 trucks are engaged in local operations involving transportation of essential commodities from rakes in railway goods sheds in different parts of the state and also in the colliery areas,” said Satpathy, who is also vice-president of All India Motor Transport Congress (AIMTC). Around 36 lakh people in the state are directly or indirectly dependent on the transport sector t for livelihood. Satpathy said the average daily loss suffered by truck owners in the state is estimated to be more than Rs 40 crore and the situation is becoming more alarming every day. He said as the wheels had stopped, there is no financial inflow and existing finance with transport operators, both small and big, is depleting fast. The OSTOF, which is the apex body in the state for transporters, representing about 1.8 lakh truckers, expressed apprehension that “returning of normalcy for truck owners will be difficult without working capital loan”. The situation is so grim that OSTOF has already urged the State Transport Authority (STA) “to kindly waive the road tax for the period from April to June and extend the validity permit and fitness certificate for at least three months”.  “As both inter-state and intra-state movements have been paralysed, truck owners are unable to pay their road taxes. This apart, we are also unable to pay the permit and fitness fees,” the OSTOF general secretary said in a representation submitted to the transport commissioner recently.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhubaneswar/transport-sector-in-ruins-as-economys-wheels-stop-moving/articleshow/75128854.cms||lalmohan.patnaik
April 14, 2020||Ajmer||Rajasthan farmers start Rabi harvest||JAIPUR: The farmers have started harvesting their crops in the earnest after the government announced lockdown relaxation for them for Rabi crop harvesting. The agriculture department had also announced that the farmers will be provided with cutting and threshing machines in the absence of labourers due to lockdown. Meanwhile, the Central government had enhanced the limit of procurement of mustard and gram from farmers to 40 quintals a day instead of a maximum of 25 quintals previously allowed. The Centre was urged to increase the purchase limit of 25 quintals a day to overcome the problems faced by farmers. Procurement will begin at Kota division from April 16 at 92 centres on April 16, said Sushma Arora, managing director, Rajfed. She said in other six divisions, except Kota, the purchase of mustard and gram will begin from May 1. She said adequate precaution and facilities will be provided to procurement centres to prevent corona infection. The number of procurement centres has been increased to ensure that farmers get a centre near their fields. The support price of mustard is Rs 4,425 and that of gram is Rs 4,875 per quintal. Sushma informed that so far 2.40 lakh farmers have registered for procurement of mustard and gram at support price and registration will be opened again from May 1.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ajmer/raj-farmers-start-rabi-harvest/articleshow/75137323.cms||---
April 14, 2020||Udaipur||Rajasthan farmers start Rabi harvest||JAIPUR: The farmers have started harvesting their crops in the earnest after the government announced lockdown relaxation for them for Rabi crop harvesting. The agriculture department had also announced that the farmers will be provided with cutting and threshing machines in the absence of labourers due to lockdown. Meanwhile, the Central government had enhanced the limit of procurement of mustard and gram from farmers to 40 quintals a day instead of a maximum of 25 quintals previously allowed. The Centre was urged to increase the purchase limit of 25 quintals a day to overcome the problems faced by farmers. Procurement will begin at Kota division from April 16 at 92 centres on April 16, said Sushma Arora, managing director, Rajfed. She said in other six divisions, except Kota, the purchase of mustard and gram will begin from May 1. She said adequate precaution and facilities will be provided to procurement centres to prevent corona infection. The number of procurement centres has been increased to ensure that farmers get a centre near their fields. The support price of mustard is Rs 4,425 and that of gram is Rs 4,875 per quintal. Sushma informed that so far 2.40 lakh farmers have registered for procurement of mustard and gram at support price and registration will be opened again from May 1.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/udaipur/raj-farmers-start-rabi-harvest/articleshow/75137322.cms||---
April 14, 2020||Vijayawada||Volunteers swell ranks of Red Cross warriors fighting Covid-19 battle||GUNTUR: For volunteers at Red Cross, a typical day during this lockdown begins at 4am. They distribute food to the destitute, deliver essential commodities, medicines to the aged and masks and sanitisers to frontline warriors. They are relentlessly working to help people stay at home and stay safe. While the volunteers are sweating it out in the scorching heat, the organisation heads of Red Cross Guntur unit are spending sleepless nights to keep the stocks ready by dawn. Among them are billionaire industrialist Penmatsa Ramachandra Raju, who is playing the role of the chairman of the disaster management team. Raju is usually the first person to reach the Red Cross office at 4.30am and also the last person to leave after completing relief operations. Attending to dozens of calls from people in need, including doctors and nurses, deputing his armies to the field and prevailing upon philanthropists to do their bit make up Raju’s daily schedule. Other such persons are international director of Rotary and Red Cross chairman Vadlamani Ravi, BJP city wing leader Jupudi Rangaraaju, Red Cross state wing treasurer GYN Babu and advisor SVS Lakshminarayana who are using their resources to mobilise donations and stocks to help the needy in the crisis time. “I am proud of my volunteers who are relentlessly working without taking a penny from the organisation,” said Raju. Around 100-110 volunteers have joined the Red Cross WhatsApp group. They take down instructions from Raju to move to different locations. While some of them collect items such as masks, sanitisers, food packets and fruits from the office, a few others go to markets and rythu bazaars ensure that people queue up and follow social distancing. They also spread awareness about Covid-19. Interestingly, at least 10 young girls have also joined the Red Cross.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/volunteers-swell-ranks-of-red-cross-warriors-fighting-covid-19-battle/articleshow/75129943.cms||Samdani MN
April 14, 2020||Chandigarh||Industrialists doing enough to take care of migrant workers, says DC||Ludhiana: A day after TOI highlighted the issue of resentment among businessmen against district administration for issuing orders for strict action against those not paying full salaries to their workers for April, the deputy commisioner (DC) issued a statement stating that he is satisfied with steps taken by the industrialists for the welfare of the labourers. The representatives of several business associations had met DC Pradeep Kumar Agrawal on Monday to discuss the matter. DC Agrawal said he held a meeting with representatives of various industrial organisations from Ludhiana, and have come to know that the industrialists are taking proper care of their labourers, which needs to be appreciated. But Upkar Singh Ahuja, president of Chamber of Industrial and Commercial Undertakings (CICU) said, “The order to pay full salaries to all the workers is not in the interest of the industry and even the government. We are taking all the necessary steps to ensure that workers stay health and do not face any problems of essential commodities and even cash. But due to lockdown, our factories are closed for almost a month and will remain closed till May 1. Because of which we are suffering huge losses, so there is no question of paying full salaries when not even a single rupee worth of work has taken place so far.” According to him, industrialists have not been able to get back their pending payments from the customers for old supplies. “This is putting more financial burden on us,” added Ahuja.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/industrialists-doing-enough-to-take-care-of-migrant-workers-says-dc/articleshow/75130749.cms||---
April 14, 2020||Hyderabad||Cops turn saviours for stray dogs in Hyderabad||HYDERABAD: Police personnel are coming to the rescue of stray animals in distress in the city. In two separate cases, cops who spotted injured dogs, alerted animal rescue teams.  G Arun Kumar, a constable attached to city police headquarters in Puranapul, said, “I saw this dog withfour puppies. While I was thinking of ways to help the mother, two animal activists visited our station to seek permission to feed stray animals.” The constable helped rescue the dog and took the responsibility of feeding the puppies . In another incident, Shashank, a cop at Chikkadpally station alerted animal activists about a dog that had suffered a fracture and swelling in its leg.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/cops-turn-saviours-for-stray-dogs/articleshow/75130744.cms||Moulika.KV
April 14, 2020||Bhubaneswar||A quiet start to Odia New Year celebrations||Bhubaneswar: People of the state celebrated a quiet Odia Naba Barsha (New Year) on the occasion of Maha Bishuba Sankranti on Monday. No religious or cultural activities was organised to mark the day in the wake of the coronavirus outbreak and the consequent lockdown across the state. President Ram Nath Kovind, Prime Minister Narendra Modi, chief minister Naveen Patnaik and other leaders wished good health and prosperity upon the people of Odisha on social media. “On the occasion of auspicious Odia New Year, Maha Bishuba Sankranti and Hanuman Jayanti, my heartfelt wishes to all Odia brothers and sisters staying in different parts of the world. May this new year bring prosperity and happiness,” tweeted Kovind. Modi tweeted, “Happy Odia New Year and Maha Bishuba Pana Sankranti. May the coming year bring happiness and good health in everyone’s life.” Naveen in his Twitter message wished everyone happy new year and prayed to Lord Jagannath for safe and secure life for all. “May God give us strength to fight against corona with courage,” he wrote. He also wished people on the occasion of 73rd Capital Foundation Day on Monday. Temples, which generally receive devotees in droves on the occasion of Maha Bishuba Sankranti, wore a deserted look this year due to the ongoing lockdown and restrictions imposed on public gatherings. “In my life, I have never seen such a day when not a single person visited the temple. So many activities start since early in the morning and continue till late at night. But today nothing happened,” said Biranchi Narayan Rath, a 52-year-old priest in Ardhanariswar temple in Sastri Nagar in the city. The first day of Baisakh, the first month of the Odia calendar, is celebrated as Maha Bishuba Shankranti. On this day, the new almanac — the traditional calendar — is released and read in temples, said Prafulla Chaudhury, an astrologer. An important feature of the day is that people relish and distribute the traditional beverage pana among their friends and family. Various organisations put up stalls along roads and in temples to distribute pana among the passers-by. The traditional beverage is prepared from bel, curd, fruits, curd and sugar or jaggery. ”Because we could not visit the temple, we made pana at home today. But the day did not have the same feel because it is a community festival and cannot be enjoyed at home. We wish next year we can celebrate the day in a grand manner,” said Debashis Acharya, a member of a city-based youth club.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhubaneswar/a-quiet-start-to-odia-new-year-celebrations/articleshow/75128868.cms||Minati Singha
April 14, 2020||Kolhapur||Sangli: 24 close contacts of Mumbai man test -ve||Kolhapur: As many as 24 people from Rethare Dharan village in Sangli district, who were under isolation since Sunday night, have tested negative for Covid-19. All these people had come in contact with a man who tested positive to the contagion in Mumbai on April 10. The 60-year-old man had returned to his hometown in Rethare Dharan village from Mumbai and stayed here from March 20 to April 10. The man was already suffering from a host of comorbidities like Alzheimer’s, urinary tract infection among others. He was admitted to a local hospital in Islampur in the first week of April and discharged on April 5. The man returned to Mumbai on April 9. On April 10, his condition aggravated and he got admitted to Apollo hospital, stated a media brief from the Sangli district information office. Soon after, guardian minister Jayant Patil and district collector Abhijeet Chaudhary confirmed that the man had tested positive for Covid-19 and instructed that 30 of his close contacts be put under isolation at Miraj Government Medical College and Hospital. While 24 of the patient’s close contacts have tested negative, results of six throat swab samples are still awaited. District civil surgeon of Sangli Sanjay Salunkhe said, “So far, none of the close contacts have shown any symptoms and very well fall in the asymptomatic category. However, they will still be kept under strict home-quarantine as a precautionary measure.” He added that the man’s native village has been sealed and strict lockdown was being observed there.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolhapur/sangli-24-close-contacts-of-mumbai-man-test-ve/articleshow/75131251.cms||---
April 14, 2020||Jaipur||Holding migrants back a big challenge for admin||Jaisalmer: Anticipating announcement about the extension of lockdown from the Centre on Tuesday morning, thousands of labourers who had come from other states for harvesting crops in the canal area of Jaisalmer were seen making last ditch efforts to return to their states. In the last two days, a large number of labourers tried to return home but were stopped by the police and other security agencies. District collector Namit Mehta and SP Kiran Kung on Monday visited Nachna, Mohangarh and other canal areas in the district and met the public representatives, field owners and local people and directed them to ensure that the labourers stay put during the lockdown period. The administration is making arrangements for their food. Around 10,000 migrants are stranded in Jaisalmer, sources said. Thousands of labourers from Madhya Pradesh, Maharashtra and Bihar came to the canal areas of Jaisalmer for harvesting crops. After the lockdown was announced, they were stranded in Jaisalmer. At present, they are living in shelter home arranged by the government. Meanwhile, in a heartening news five persons who were tested positive three days ago were tested negative in Pokhran on Monday. Assuming that the lockdown will end on April 14, a large number of labourers had started leaving for their homes in advance. These labourers have been stopped at many places but they are adamant about returning to their states. To assess the situation, the district collector and SP visited the canal areas on Monday. They took information about law and order following lockdown, assessed the check points and food for needy. Collector Mehta said that the administration is determined to keep the labourers where they are and they are being persuaded and even the field owners have been asked to motivate them to stay here. Officers, patwaris told the collector that the labourers were insisting on going back to their villages.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/holding-migrants-back-a-big-challenge-for-admin/articleshow/75131660.cms||---
April 14, 2020||Bareilly||Now, farmer organisations can directly procure wheat, veggies, fruits from farms||Pilibhit: In view of the outbreak of novel coronavirus, principal secretary,department of agriculture, UP government, Devesh Chaturvedi, has issued a letter to all district magistrates and directors of mandi councils across the state to enable farmers’ producer organizations (FPO) and farmers’ producer committees (FPC) in their respective districts to procure wheat, fruits and vegetables directly from the fields of farmers and to sell them to local consumers. Chaturvedi said the involvement of FPOs and FPCs will prevent farmers from crowding mandis to sell their produce at reasonable rates. District agriculture officer in Pilibhit Vinod Yadav said there are five FPOs registered under the Companies Act. “We are compiling details of the FPOs and the list will be provided to district food and marketing department for wheat procurement," he added. Food and marketing officer Avinash Jha said the state has approved 124 procurement centres in Pilibhit to procure 1.79 lakh metric tons of wheat by June 15. “Of these, the maximum, 31 centres have been allotted to UP Upbhokta Sahkari Sangh, 29 each to Pradesh Cooperative Federation and Pradesh Cooperative Union, 13 centres to food and marketing department, 10 to state food corporation , five to Karmchari Kalyan Nigam, three to UP Agro and two to Food Corporation of India,” Jha said. In Pilibhit, as many as 3,500 farmers have registered with the agriculture department for wheat procurement. A farmer of Khandepur village in Puranpur tehsil, Manjit Singh,said, farmers were expecting relief from government but this is not so. “The total production of wheat in the district is expected to go up to 7.50 lakh metric tons while the government has fixed the procurement target at merely 1.79 lakh MT," he added. "How long will it take some 2.82 lakh farmer families to register with the government department where only 3,500 families have so far been registered,” Singh asked. Meanwhile, Vaibhav Shrivastav, Pilibhit DM, has issued directions to secretaries of all three mandi councils to get their respective campuses sanitized and arrange masks and hand sanitisers for farmers and procurement staff.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/now-farmer-organisations-can-directly-procure-wheat-veggies-fruits-from-farms/articleshow/75128871.cms||---
April 14, 2020||Visakhapatnam||Smokers kick the habit as supply shortage results in price surge||VISAKHAPATNAM: The lockdown has led to a fall in the consumption of tobacco products in the state with shops running out of supplies. Available stocks at stores are also dwindling and being sold at an exorbitant price, forcing consumers to give up the habit. “A packet of the brand that I smoke costs Rs 165. Even last week, I purchased it for Rs 180 and on weekends, at Rs 220. Now only one store in our neighbourhood has the stock and the shopkeeper is selling it for no less than Rs 250. I have decided not to buy,” said K Arjun Kumar, a software executive. Pulmonologists in the city, who previously had several smokers coming in with respiratory ailments, said smoking and consumption of other tobacco products had fallen to a large extent in the state. “Such bad habits, especially smoking, have reduced to a great extent in the state. This is good because smoking increases the chance of inflating the viruses in the body of the person who gets affected with Covid-19,” Dr KVV Vijaya Kumar, a pulmonologist from Visakhapatnam and a faculty member of the pulmonology department at AMC told TOI. Although the government issued a notification dated April 10 that prohibits people from consumption of smokeless tobacco products, there is no mention about smoking cigarettes in public places. Since the lockdown, however, restrictions around the movement of commodities has hit the supply of cigarettes. “The lockdown has helped our work to make at least 100 villages in Visakhapatnam district tobacco-free. In the last two years we managed to make 25 villages tobacco-free and post-lockdown our job would be easy to implement a strict vigil on other villages as well,” said Saravakota Balaraju, who runs an NGO that aims to make tribal pockets of the Agency free from the use of tobacco. Apprehensions surrounding the post-lockdown scenario, however, remain. “It is good news that this time smoking and use of tobacco has reduced as smokers are at more risk if affected with Covid-19. But, my apprehension is post-lockdown once everything is normal they might again take up the old habit. The government should ensure that cigarettes and tobacco products are not available,” said Dr K Preethi, another pulmonologist.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/visakhapatnam/smokers-kick-the-habit-as-supply-shortage-results-in-price-surge/articleshow/75129962.cms||Arpit Basu
April 14, 2020||Agra||As Covid-19 cases rise sharply, Agra admin shifts 20 to neighbouring districts to manage capacity||Agra: In the wake of the rising number of Covid-19 cases in Agra, the district administration has shifted 20 patients to similar facilities in the neighbouring districts to manage capacity. While 10 patients were earlier shifted to Vrindavan community health centre (CHC), another 10 were shifted to Mainpuri’s Bhogaon CHC on Monday due to spurt in cases in Agra. Agra district magistrate Prabhu N Singh said that the patients with mild infection, who were admitted in the CHC in Barauli, had to be shifted out as the CHC was full to capacity. He added that this was done to manage the existing facilities. “All protocols are being strictly maintained in the wards, where the patients are being treated,” he added. Barauli CHC, which is considered a level 1 treatment facility, has 26 beds. Besides, there are 18 beds at Agra district hospital, which is level 2, and 58 beds in SN Medical College, a level 3 treatment facility, with six ventilators. The government has classified hospitals into three categories – Covid care centres to treat mild infections, Covid health centres for clinically moderate-level serious patients and dedicated Covid hospitals to provide comprehensive care to severe and critical patients. Meanwhile, Mainpuri and Mathura district authorities have been provided a list of people, who recently received treatment at a private hospital in Agra, which was declared a major epicentre of the novel Coronavirus. The hospital was sealed on April 6 after a woman, who was admitted there earlier and later referred to another private hospital in Mathura, tested positive for coronavirus. So far, 22 persons, including six health workers of the hospital, have tested positive for Covid-19. Mainpuri DM Mahendra Bahadur Singh told TOI that 17 such people, who either took treatment at the private hospital in Agra or visited it along with the patient or died due to some other disease, have been identified so far. “Their samples are being taken for testing and till then all of them will be quarantined at their houses,” he said, adding that all precautions are being taken by the authorities. In Mathura, three such people have been identified and their samples will be taken on Tuesday, said additional CMO Rajiv Gupta. Till now, 138 patients tested positive for Coronavirus in Agra followed by Firozabad (18), Mathura (5), Hathras (4), Mainpuri and Kasganj (3 each) and Aligarh (1).||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/agra/as-covid-19-cases-rise-sharply-agra-admin-shifts-20-to-neighbouring-districts-to-manage-capacity/articleshow/75129969.cms||---
April 14, 2020||Chandigarh||Lockdown extension: Form teams of experts to provide essential things||As decided and announced by Punjab government to extend the lockdown and curfew till May1, challenges like demand of grocery, routine and health check-ups, are likely to be faced by the administration. Council of Engineers is regularly suggesting solutions to administration to fight against Covid-19 and to minimise the chances of community spread of Covid-19. Listed here are a few... 20 teams of experts Ward-wise distribution of grocery/vegetables as well as other essential commodities has been started in Ludhiana, which is appreciable effort of administration. It is further suggested that parallel to ward-wise distribution, Ludhiana may be divided into 20 parts (with 5 wards each) and for each part, teams comprising officials from DC Office, some police personnel, PWD, PSPCL, private practitioner doctors, paramedical staff as well as some members of active NGOs may be formulated. The team should move in well equipped vehicles (with necessary precautions, kits and speakers) and visit their respective wards every three to five days to find out if any one is facing any health problem or showing symptoms of the deadly virus. Random samples taken by the administration will help in preventing Covid-19 from spreading further. Taking advantage of the present situation, many residents are making fake calls for grocery items. The teams formed should also verify the genuinity of such calls. Contact numbers of the teams should be made public or shared with some active NGOs so that people can approach or provide information. There are large number of areas in Ludhiana which are congested, making it impossible for people to observe social distancing. These people, mostly migrant labourers, can be shifted to government schools in villages and tubewell rooms. They could also be employed in fields to harvest crops as well as in grain markets. The teams identify daily wagers who are interested to work in fields. This will lighten the burden of the administration who otherwise have to provide them with rations and food. NGOs must not be allowed to distribute food or grocery to the needy families directly. They must supply the food packets/grocery kits to the teams, who will appoint some local representatives for proper distribution. Any demand must be met through local representative and these local representative must be made responsible for identifying genuine cases. Free movement of residents After inspection by the teams, residents of localities that are found free of coronavirus may be allowed to move within the locality and shopkeepers may also be allowed to open their shops. Initially, it can be allowed for a few hours in a day, say 10am to 3pm) with proper precautions of social distancing and sanitisation. The administration can also think about pedestrian movement only i.e. no vehicle to be allowed to be used within the permitted areas too. This option will automatically restrict them to move longer distances. By this, only entry and exit points will be required to be sealed and only few traffic marshals/ police personnel will be required. The area of movement of residents can be increased accordingly with time. This will also ensure that the local shopkeepers can earn their livelihoods. No person from locality should be allowed to go beyond the locality and supply of goods to shopkeepers must be done in similar manner as it is being done these days. Similarly, some confined areas of planned and developed industrial areas, like Focal Point, Industrial Area A & B, can be made operational with sealing of certain roads to restrict free movement of workers. Different working hours to run industries in localities can be fixed to avoid unnecessary traffic/accumulation of labours. Use smart city/cow cess funds There are crores of rupees available in smart city account with the department. As already suggested earlier too, these funds can be used to arrange 50,000 grocery kits, PPE kits for saviours as well as other essential arrangements in hospitals. In our opinion, for next 15 days, only around 10 crores in each major district like Ludhiana, Jalandhar, Amritsar, Patiala and Mohali will be required to fulfill aforementioned basic necessities. Similarly, there must be crores of rupees available in cow cess account with the municipal corporation, which can also be used now. Raise funds at local level Every citizen has responsibility to stand by the nation. Though large number of citizens are contributing at national as well as state level, similar arrangements must be introduced to collect funds at district level. Corporate sector must be asked to deposit certain amount out of their Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR) at the earliest possible. This practice may be continued every year by forming a trust with members from administration, leading industrial associations and NGOs to upgrade medical/defence infrastructure in civil hospitals from time to time. (Writer is president, Council of Engineers)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/lockdown-extension-form-teams-of-experts-to-provide-essential-things/articleshow/75130766.cms||---
April 14, 2020||Jaipur||Street vendors turn virus busters: Sanitise Kota city for 7 hours daily||KOTA: As many as 60 volunteers of Rojgar Utthaan Thela Futkar Seva Samiti (RUTFSS) of Kota are sanitising the city by spraying disinfectants with knapsacks weighing nearly 20kg which they carry on their backs. There are 10 volunteers who monitor their work. In the last 21 days, they have sanitised 23 out of around 150 wards of Kota Municipal Corporation. “After enforcement of the lockdown in the state, over 125 members of RUTFSS offered voluntary service for spraying sodium hypochlorite solution for sanitisation of the city. After getting permission from Kota Municipal Corporation (KMC), they formed three spray teams with 20 volunteers each. They are on the job since March 23 and have sanitised 23 wards so far,” Nitin Saini, president of RUFTSS, told TOI on Monday. “The three teams are regularly spraying sodium hypochlorite solution in the allotted wards from 11am to 6pm while 10 other volunteers are monitoring the work,” he added. “Since the members of the RUTFSS, who earn their livelihood by selling various items on the pushcarts, were left without work due to the lockdown, they expressed a desire to do ‘dharma’ (service for humanity) by offering to sanitise the city,” Saini said. Initially, RUTFSS had only six hand spray machines, which were used for sanitisation for controlling the spread of dengue. Sixteen new machines, each costing Rs 1,200, were recently purchased for the purpose. The machine weighs around 4kg and when filled with sodium hypochlorite solution, it weighs around 16kg. A volunteer carries the machine for nearly seven hours a day. “Several volunteers have sustained injuries on their backs and shoulders but they refuse to stop the work,” Dayal Das Chawla, secretary, RUTFSS, said. He added that most members of the organization are in the 20-40 age group. “The district administration and other organizations provide ration packets for the families of volunteers,” said Haider Ali.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/street-vendors-turn-virus-busters-sanitise-kota-city-for-7-hours-daily/articleshow/75131659.cms||---
April 14, 2020||Jaipur||93 persons test positive on Monday, Rajasthan tally at 897||JAIPUR: The total number of coronavirus cases in the state shot up to 897 on Monday after 93 more people were found infected. The good news was that no deaths were reported and 133 patients’ test reports were negative. To prevent cases from being unreported, massive sampling and screening work continued in Walled City, especially in Ramganj locality. Out of the 93 fresh cases, 29 were from Jaipur, Jodhpur (31), Bharatpur (11), Kota (9), Banswara (7), Dausa (3) Jhalawar (1) and 2 evacuees from Iran. “All the positive cases from Jaipur were from Ramganj and Brahmpuri localities,” said a senior officer of the health department. On Saturday, 139 positive cases were reported in the state. So far, 25 districts are in the grip of the virus with Hanumangarh (2 cases) being the latest addition. Among all the districts, Jaipur now has the highest number of cases with 370 cases till Monday. “This is the result of massive sampling across Jaipur. Only after identifying the cases, we can think of containment,” said Rohit Kumar Singh, additional chief secretary (health). Officials of the health department said the increasing number of cases is prove of massive sample collection from Walled City areas especially Ramganj. “In past five days, we have collected at least 3,000 samples and till Monday we collected 31,804 samples out of which 897 tested positive, 28,657 tested negative while 2,250 samples are under process in the laboratory,” Singh added. “Except for a few cases, most of the deaths were patients having multiple ailments and were above 60 years of age,” a senior doctor at SMS Hospital said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/93-persons-test-positive-on-monday-state-tally-at-897/articleshow/75131252.cms||Ashish Mehta
April 14, 2020||Hyderabad||Flat owners under pressure to abandon pets; police and activists intervene||HYDERABAD: At a time when several pets are being abandoned over misconceptions that they transfer corovirus, timely intervention by animal lovers and the police have saved the lives of pets belonging to two families in Moula Ali. The incident came to light on Monday, after screenshots of WhatsApp messages from the flat owners’ association, asking residents to give away their pets in view of Covid-19, went viral on social media. “You are all aware of the present sitution Covid-19. The association observed that 204 and 301 flats are maintaining pets in the apartment. In view of the safety of the residents, we advised pet owners that these pets have to be surrendered to authorities concerned immediately or it will be viewed seriously ,” a WhatsApp message read. The flat owners’ association also gave a deadline to the residents to give away their pets , failing which they will discontinue basic facilities to both the flats . When TOI contacted Raju, an association member, he said, “The decision was taken by flat owners association to ensure safety of residents under the current circumstances.” The screenshots of the messages were posted on Twitter by one Srikanth Soni @Srikanth_soni who tagged Rachakonda police requesting them to look into the matter. Soon, the circle inspector of Kushaiguda police station K Chandra Shekar counselled members of the association. “They believed pets could transfer Covid-19. They took back their decision to ban pets and also apologized to the residents after we spoke to them,” said Chandra Shekar.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/flat-owners-under-pressure-to-abandon-pets-police-and-activists-intervene/articleshow/75130765.cms||Moulika.KV
April 14, 2020||Chandigarh||‘Chop both hands of attacker too’||Ludhiana: Reacting to the Patiala incident, where the hand of an assistant sub-inspector (ASI) of Punjab Police was chopped off by a gang of men, Ludhiana MP Ravneet Singh Bittu asked the police to chop off both the hands of the perpetrator and also demanded that this punishment be given within 24 hours. In a statement issued late Sunday evening, Bittu said, “I condemn the attack on the Patiala police by some unscrupulous elements, in which the wrist of an ASI was chopped off. Action has been taken against the culprits by the Patiala police and leaders across political lines have condemned this murderous attack on the police party. I appeal to the police administration to give exemplary punishment to these culprits by chopping off both their hands, that would still be a minimum punishment for them. This punishment should be given to them within 24 hours.” Bittu also said some of the leaders, who are now demanding strict action against the culprits and are shedding crocodile tears, will start doing politics over it after 10-15 years and will appeal for pardon for them. Also, in his appeal to chief minister Amarinder Singh, Bittu said the injured ASI should immediately be promoted to the rank of an inspector and should be awarded Rs 50 lakh as compensation for his bravery.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/chop-both-hands-of-attacker-too/articleshow/75130779.cms||---
April 14, 2020||Hyderabad||Nalgonda cops help rescue injured canine||HYDERABAD: Nalgonda police on Monday helped an animal lover shift an injured stray dog to a shelter in the city. Neela Kandala noticed an injured stray dog lying on a street at Shivaji Nagar in Nalgonda on Sunday. “A friend and I noticed the dog, which was barely able to stand. There were no external injuries but she seemed to have suffered internal injuries on her spine and hind leg,” Neela told TOI. As it was difficult to find medical help due to lockdown, Neela contacted Nalgonda SP AV Ranganath. “We arranged a vehicle to transport the injured dog to People For Animals shelter in Hyderabad. The student and her friend accompanied the dog to the shelter,” Ranganath said.TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/nalgonda-cops-help-rescue-injured-canine/articleshow/75130771.cms||---
April 14, 2020||Bareilly||Bareilly’s first Covid-19 patient, his wife 'recover'||Bareilly: A 34-year-old man, who was Bareilly’s first Covid-19 patient, and his wife were discharged from district hospital on Monday evening after their fourth and third test reports, respectively, were found negative. Though their four other family members were tested negative for the first time on Monday, officials said they will be only discharged if their reports are found negative again, in future. The 34-year-old man, who works at a Noida-based firm which has reported several Covid-19 cases, told TOI, “I reached Bareilly on March 22 and it was only on March 26, I learnt that two of my colleagues were tested positive. So, I went to a district hospital to get myself tested. I felt extremely sad when I came to know that I have transmitted the virus to my parents, wife, brother and sister. I thought for days that if I had not returned home, this may not have happened. However, I was sharing the building with 12 other people in Noida and they could have got infected through me, if I had stayed back.” After the man was tested positive on March 29, all family members, excluding two-year-old son, were found to have been infected. “Though my wife and I had tested negative in earlier test reports, it was for the first time on Monday when all six of us were found negative. Our happiness, however, was shortlived. We received a call from our uncle who informed us about a theft in our house,” the man said. Though the couple reached home on Monday evening, they will again have to wait for days to reunite with their two-year-old son. His wife said, “After we were tested positive, our child has been living with my parents. We have been directed to follow a 14-day home quarantine and we would stay away from our child as a precautionary measure.” Dr Vageesh Vaish who supervised the treatment said, “When the man came here, he had severe cough and difficulty in breathing. We are elated that he and his wife were tested negative and discharged from hospital.” Chief medical officer Dr Vineet Shukla said, “The condition of remaining four patients is improving. We have again collected samples of the four patients on Monday and sent them to laboratory for tests.” District surveillance officer Dr Ranjan Gautam said, “Apart from four patients at district hospital, two patients from Budaun and one from Shahjahanpur are undergoing treatment at Covid-19 level 1 hospital at CHC in Bithri Chainpur. We have sent samples of 25 members of a team involved in treatment of patients to Lucknow for tests.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/bareillys-first-covid-19-patient-his-wife-recover/articleshow/75128894.cms||Priyangi Agarwal
April 14, 2020||Jaipur||UP boy kills self, wants father stuck in Kota for last rites||BIJNOR: A Class IX student hanged himself from a tree on Monday morning in Bijnor district of Uttar Pradesh after scribbling a request on the bark, asking his father to bring down his body and perform the last rites. The 15-year-old’s last wish has put his poor and distraught family in a fix as his father, a tailor, is stuck in Rajasthan's Kota district, about 700km away, due to the lockdown. Now, the family of Shakir Ahmad, who committed suicide on the outskirts of his village in Sherkot area, has appealed to the Rajasthan government to help bring his father back to the village. The exact reason for Shakir’s suicide is not known yet. Police said that he was mentally disturbed, while the family claimed that he was normal, but under “some kind of spell” which made him take the extreme step. Sherkot’s station house officer (SHO) Sanjay Kumar said, “Using a stone, the boy wrote on the tree’s bark that his body be taken down in presence of his father, Zulfikar Ahmad, who is in Kota right now. We couldn’t let the body hang for such a long period, so it was taken down and sent for post-mortem. Meanwhile, his family members are now trying to get permission from the Rajasthan government so that Zulfikar can attend the funeral of his son.” A family member said that Shakir used to bring firewood from the nearby forest. “On Monday morning, he went to the forest on his cycle. But he didn’t return. Some passerby saw him hanging and alerted everyone,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/up-boy-kills-self-wants-father-stuck-in-kota-for-last-rites/articleshow/75131254.cms||Harveer Dabas
April 14, 2020||Jaipur||Vendors being provided safety kits in Shyam Nagar||JAIPUR: The Shyam Nagar Vikas Samiti in city has started providing safety kits to vegetable vendors and sanitising their carts before they enter the colony to avoid the spread of coronavirus. The samiti members were earlier providing all the essential items including groceries, vegetables and milk to the residents’ doorsteps with the help of volunteers and had barred the entry of vendors. But, now they are providing vendors with safety kits, conducting their thermal screening and sanitising their carts before allowing them inside the colony. Samiti president Pradeep Gugalia said that it could become possible after lot of efforts. “We identified 16 vegetable vendors and made them understand the value of their own safety. Their vegetables are being washed with hot water every day at the sanitisation centre established in the colony. We have divided the colony in six zones. The milk supplied in the colony is also being sanitised inside the colony premises and then delivered by volunteers in all the zones as per requirement,” explained Gugalia. The vendors have been provided with identity cards for entry inside the colony. Gugalia further told TOI that after the lockdown the samiti made its own e-commerce website on which the colony residents can order groceries or milk online through various portals. These products will be sanitised before being delivered to the houses. “There are 2,000 houses in the colony in which 10,000 people reside. While ordering online from our website, the customers will be told about the exact amount to be paid which they can keep handy at the time of delivery,” said Gugalia.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/vendors-being-provided-safety-kits-in-shyam-ngr/articleshow/75130786.cms||---
April 14, 2020||Visakhapatnam||Vizianagaram admin await orders to shift stranded||VISAKHAPATNAM: Vizianagaram district authorities are awaiting orders from various state governments to shift people stranded in the district. Authorities said all stranded persons — numbering a few hundreds — in the district have been quarantined. In Vizianagaram town, 200 persons have been quarantined at JNTU campus which has been converted into a quarantine centre. District collector M Hari Jawahar Lal said, “All the 200 are in a healthy condition and a few of them have also been tested, but the results were negative. They are all from Odisha, Chhattisgarh, Jharkhand, MP and Bihar.” The collector added that though the quarantined workers are in a healthy condition, they could not be moved out of the district. “They are all being taken care off and they have been in touch with their near and dear ones. All their family members have been informed,” the collector said. District medical and health officer (DMHO) Dr Ramani Kumari said, “They are all in a healthy condition but we cannot move them across the borders, unless their own governments give the nod.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/visakhapatnam/vzm-admin-await-orders-to-shift-stranded/articleshow/75130021.cms||Venkatesh Bayya
April 14, 2020||Bareilly||Four of family killed, three-year-old boy injured as tractor-trolley runs over bike||Bareilly: Four members of a family, including a woman and an eight-year-old boy, were killed while a three-year-old boy sustained injuries after a tractor-trolley allegedly run over a motorcycle in Jalalabad area of Shahjahanpur district on Monday morning. All five victims were on their way to Jaitipur town on a single motorbike. According to police, one of the victims, Jaimala (55), had married her daughter Suman with one Mukesh Kumar in Mirzapur. On Sunday evening, when Jaimala received a call from Suman that Mukesh was thrashing her, he along with his nephew Ashok rushed to Suman’s in-law’s house on a bike in a bid to resolve the dispute. But, finding no solution to the problem, Jaimala decided to take her daughter and both her children along. Since no transportation was available at that time, all the five — three adults and two children —left for their relative’s place in Sikatiya village to spend the night. Around 5am on Monday, they left for Jaitipur on the bike and met with an accident near Maalupur village on Jaitipur state highway, said police. Jaimala, Ashok and Suman’s elder son Ankit (8) died on the spot, while Suman succumbed to her injuries at the Shahjahanpur medical college, said police, adding that the condition of her second child Aayush is said to be stable and he is expected to recover from his injuries soon. Police have sent the bodies for autopsy and informed the family. Jalalabad police station SHO Ravi Kumar said, “We have registered an FIR against the unidentified tractor driver under IPC sections 304A (causing death b negligence) and 279 (rash driving).”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/four-of-family-killed-three-year-old-boy-injured-as-tractor-trolley-runs-over-bike/articleshow/75128882.cms||Kanwardeep Singh
April 14, 2020||Kolhapur||Solapur: Containment zone drawn up in area which reported 1st positive case||The Solapur administration has sounded an alarm after the first confirmed coronavirus patient died in the district. Pacha Peth area in Solapur city, where the patient used to live, has been sealed and a 1km containment zone has been drawn. The administration has initiated a survey in the containment zone, which includes around 7,000 families with 43,000 people. Solapur district collector Milind Shambharkar told TOI on Monday that while 3,700 homes have been surveyed in the containment zone, the remaining households would be covered by Tuesday evening. According to Shambharkar, the number of close contacts of the deceased patient has now increased to 91 and the throat swab samples of all the suspects have been sent for testing. The results were likely to arrive by Monday night or Tuesday morning.He added that there were around 30 secondary contacts of the deceased patient, who have been advised home-quarantine. When asked about the facilities in the containment zone, he said all activities in the containment zone were shut and a helpline number had been issued to the residents in the area, wherein groceries would be delivered to them at their doorstep.“A disinfection drive has also been undertaken in the containment zone. Now all the vehicles will be scrutinized,” said the collector. The patient who died was admitted to the Chhatrapati Shivaji Maharaj Sarvopchar Rugnalaya on April 10. He passed away the next day.s||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolhapur/solapur-containment-zone-drawn-up-in-area-which-reported-1st-positive-case/articleshow/75131255.cms||---
April 14, 2020||Surat||Migrant labourer held for false plaint to PMO over food||Surat: Kadodara police arrested a migrant labourer on Sunday on charges of him allegedly making false complaint of non-availability of food and seeking help. According to the cops, the 28-year-old man called national helpline number and placed a complaint with the Prime Minister’s Office.Following the complaint, officials of the district administration visited his home and found grocery enough to last him a month. The officials also recovered grocery kit from his home that was donated by some social workers recently. Police arrested Jaykishore Balkeshwar Raspat Mistry, a resident of Patel Nagar and booked him under Indian Penal Code 177 (furnishing false information). The complaint was lodged by the talati of the village, Jignesh Prajapati.Mistry complained over the helpline number that he is a labourer living alone and without any food to eat.After receiving the complaint details, Prajapti visited Mistry’s rented accommodation for verification. and found grocery items from his home. “It was found by the officials that the man shared false information. Police will take legal actions against anyone found creating panic by sharing false information,” said a police officer.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/migrant-labourer-held-for-false-plaint-to-pmo-over-food/articleshow/75130775.cms||---
April 14, 2020||Jaipur||Jaisalmer: Wildlife on the loose as humans stay locked up||JAISALMER: The lockdown may have inconvenienced humans, but it has proved to be a blessing in disguise for the animals. Wildlife in desert areas has heaved a sigh of relief as there is no traffic or tourists in desert areas of Jaisalmer, including the Sam area. Now, a large number of deer are seen running on roads and even the ongoing breeding of the Great Indian Bustard is on without any human intervention and the GIBs can be also seen on roads. There has been a fall in the wildlife getting killed in road accidents. Due to depleting forest cover and increasing human intervention, wild animals used to come on to roads. Due to the heavy traffic and noise, they would remain behind the bushes and in the jungles, but now, owing to the calm and stillness due to the lockdown, the beasts have been coming out in the open on the roads. The wild animals in DNP, Ramdeora, Khetolai, Lathi and nearby areas seem to be rejoicing the lockdown-induced calm. Increasing tourist movement and commercial activities had wreaked havoc on the natural habitat of the wildlife, disturbing the well being of animals like camels, GIBs (or godawans), desert cats, desert wolves, vultures, chinkaras, peacocks, etc. The scribe visited many areas of Jaisalmer and Barmer and saw many species of wildlife camping on roads. Similarly, a godawan was seen on the road between Barna and Sudasari in Jaisalmer, along with many deer. Wildlife expert Radheyshyam Pemani said that due to no movement of vehicles and no tourists, the wildlife can be seen crossing the roads.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/wildlife-on-the-loose-as-humans-stay-locked-up/articleshow/75131661.cms||---
April 14, 2020||Bareilly||33-year-old Covid-19 patient ‘cured’, discharged from hospital in Pilibhit||Pilibhit: A 33-year-old novel coronavirus (Covid-19) infected man was discharged by health officials from the isolation ward of district government hospital on Monday. The 'cured' man was sent home after his last two tests were found negative by King George’s Medical University (KGMU). The 33-year-old man's report reached Pilibhit district headquarters on Sunday night. His 73-year-old mother was also discharged from the hospital on April 8 after getting 'cured' of the infection. In addition, the KGMU has sent out negative test reports of 16 more cases in Pilibhit on Sunday night. The man was one of the 37 pilgrims who had returned from Saudi Arabia via Mumbai on March 19. The man had reportedly spent time with his mother at an isolation ward of district government hospital in Pilibhit. Additional chief medical officer Dr CM Chaturvedi said, "The health department had so far collected samples of 90 people, of which, nine reports were awaited. The remaining 81 were found negative. This included the reports of the mother and the son."||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/33-year-old-covid-19-patient-cured-discharged-from-hospital-in-pilibhit/articleshow/75128915.cms||---
April 14, 2020||Ahmedabad||APMC roadmap by Tuesday to ease overcrowding at Jetalpur||Ahmedabad: The Ahmedabad Agricultural Produce Market (APMC) in a meeting with commission agents have decided to begin trading of vegetables from Jetalpur from April 15. However, the wholesale market at Jetalpur will be divided to prevent crowding.APMC secretary Deepak Patel said that a meeting was held with the commission agents association and it was decided the government will come up with an alternative in consultation with the Ahmedabad Municipal Corporation. “A detailed roadmap for easing of overcrowding will be made and declared on Tuesday.”Bharat Khamar, the president of the Ahmedabad Vegetable General Commission Agent Cooperative Society said that the meeting was fruitful, and the officials have agreed to ease overcrowding. The APMC in consultation with AMC is likely to come up with different zonea for retail traders of that area.The president of the association said that the association showed videos of the market and informed the government officials that the APMC was a sitting duck for infection as over 6,000 traders from across the city and even from Walled City were coming to purchase vegetables there. There is no social distancing, nor are people wearing masks.Only farmers’ commission agents are likely to be allowed at Jetalpur, he said. Khamar said that during the meeting they raised concerns and about the Kalupur trader who was a regular visitor at Jetalpur and was tested positive. The government has agreed to carry out testing of each worker and of the traders.Officials at the APMC said that stropping the trading for nearly four days has given them time to disinfect the area and also break the chain if there was any. An official said that the new rules will not be easy and there will be many restrictions including banning the entry of three-wheelers at Jetalpur. Also traders will be asked to divert the farmers to seven different markets that would be set up. These markets are likely to be started on Ring Road so that nearby areas could be served.BOX: Bopal marketMeanwhile in Bopal, which recorded its first case on Monday, the authorities are likely to impose restrictions on the vegetable market in the area. The old market has been closed but there is a new one which has come up near the old government water tank. Officials said that from Tuesday they will ensure that the vegetable traders are made to stand places in groups of three or four so that the buyers are also scattered across different spots.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/apmc-roadmap-by-tuesday-to-ease-overcrowding-at-jetalpur/articleshow/75130799.cms||---
April 14, 2020||Bareilly||Bareilly SSP takes to streets to enforce lockdown||Bareilly: A day after major city pockets witnessed significant footfall, Bareilly SSP Shailesh Pandey with his entire team took to the streets on Monday to ensure proper enforcement of Covid-19 lockdown in the city. A large number of people had hit the roads and assembled at marketplaces and grocery stores violating the lockdown on Sunday. The SSP moved through several important places, including Shyamganj, and even the narrow lanes and appealed to the people to comply with the lockdown rules. He also warned them of putting up "penalty" notices at main gates of houses of those caught venturing out. SSP Pandey then distributed juice packets among police personnel on lockdown duty. “Announcements were made through loudspeakers even as we marched through various prominent localities and city pockets, to appeal to people to strictly follow the lockdown norms. Special focus was on areas, like Shyamganj and its surroundings, which were thronged by a number of people on Sunday. People were warned of legal action as cops will put up notices stating penalty amount which will be recovered from the person caught wandering on streets. People were also asked to make use of numbers provided by district administration and civic bodies for doorstep delivery of grocery items,” SSP Pandey told TOI on Monday. The SSP added, “During the day, locals were also informed that those stepping out unnecessarily will face arrest and there will be legal actions against them. Policemen will intercept people found loitering on the streets. Besides, the personnel have been asked to act promptly in dispersing gatherings.” On Sunday, locals in Bareilly were spotted flouting lockdown norms by venturing on to the streets and loitering near vegetable markets in Shamganj and Dealpir areas of the city. The Bareilly police arrested 1,394 people and FIR has been registered against 322 for lockdown violation, so far. As many as 13,905 challans have been also issued while a sum of Rs 20.24 lakh has been recovered in fine.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/bareilly-ssp-takes-to-streets-to-enforce-lockdown/articleshow/75128904.cms||Maria Khan
April 14, 2020||Jaipur||Jaipur: 600 migrants denied food as cops play spoilsport||JAIPUR: Sona, a differently abled woman from UP stranded here, is inconsolable after learning that she will not get food packets from now. She is mother of three children and wife of a labourer who works at a factory in RIICO industrial area. Standing in a long queue of around 600 people for food packets, Sona looks helpless as the lockdown has not only claimed her husband’s job, but also depleted the family’s savings in the last 15 days. Local volunteers had been distributing food to these people until now. But the administration has allegedly scared off the volunteers. “It was a great relief that we could get our daily meals even after my husband lost his job and we had no money for the last 15 days,” said Sona. The local villagers were distributing food packets to the poor in Khora Bisal village on the outskirts of Jaipur. Echoing the same sentiments, Ram Prakash from Bharatpur said, “We were getting good quality food and felt safe, but as after the announcement of discontinuation of the service it will become hard. We now have to think another way feed ourselves as we can’t commit suicide. The government should either provide us with food or let us work.” Volunteer Sripal Jain had on Monday announced that the distribution of food will be discontinued and alleged that the administration directed them not to provide food packets to such a large gathering. They were warned that if anyone tests positive for Covid-19 among the workers then the volunteers will be responsible for the same. “After the warning, we decided to stop the distribution of food as it might land us in trouble,” Jain added. Jan Samasya Niwaran Manch, president, Suraj Soni said, “People approached me with similar complaints and I assured them to raise the concern with the administration and also help them with some raw material with the help of other friends.” He also added that people who got stuck in Jaipur are responsible citizens of our society and everyone should come out and help them. On the other hand, additional DCP, West, Bajrang Singh, said, “I received a complaint about the same and instructed my subordinates that if the volunteers are following lockdown rules and maintaining social distance while distributing food, we have no objection to that.” He pointed out that feeding 600-700 people in a day is a big challenge in a small village like this. The must re-energise and continue the work.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/600-migrants/homeless-denied-food-as-cops-play-spoilsport/articleshow/75130802.cms||---
April 14, 2020||Surat||Let migrants go home, weavers urge state govt||Surat: While central government has issued guidelines allowing industries to start operations, powerloom weavers’ associations from in and around Surat have come forward in support of migrant workers’ demand to travel to their native places and avoid the flare-ups in the city.Powerloom weavers met district collector and senior officers on Monday with the demand to allow the workers to travel to their native states and showed willingness to arrange for their transportation.According to weavers, the workers are mentally exhausted and are yearning to meet their family back home. As the powerloom units are shut, the migrant workers have been sitting idle in their ‘kholis’ (rooms). In small rooms, about 10 to 15 workers are staying together, increasing the risk of coronavirus infection.Migrant workers went on rampage with demand to go back to their native on April 10. The angry workers, mostly employed in the powerloom units in Laskana industrial estate, poured on the road, fearing the extension of lockdown beyond April 14.Vijay Mangukiya, president of the Anjani Industrial Estate, which houses more than 2,000 powerloom units told TOI, “The lockdown, coronavirus scare and the closure of the powerloom units has disturbed the migrant workers mentally. Food and wages is not a problem, all they want is to go back home and meet their family members.”“The association members from Laskana and Anjani Industrial Estates have offered to arrange for transportation, provided the administration is giving permission to the workers to travel to t heir home states. There are about 2 lakh workers from Anjani and Laskana industrial units who are waiting to go home. Majority of these workers are from Odisha and Bihar,” said Parimal Jariwala, a powerloom unit owner at Anjani.Mahendra Ramoliya, president of Sachin Powerloom Weavers’ Association said, “The government has issued guidelines to start the manufacturing units, but workers are in no mood to work. We have requested the authorities to take proactive decision for allowing the workers to travel to their natives.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/let-migrants-go-home-weavers-urge-state-govt/articleshow/75130797.cms||---
April 14, 2020||Bareilly||23 people quarantined after Moradabad DU student who tested Covid-19 positive admits to visiting Sambhal in March||Bareilly: It has emerged that a resident of Lal Nagri, Karula in Moradabad, who recently tested positive for the novel coronavirus, had attended a funeral in Sambhal earlier in March. The 21-year-old, pursuing his masters degree from Delhi University, had tested positive for the virus on Sunday. After the fact emerged on Monday, Sambhal district administration and health department swung into action to trace all those who had come in contact with the infected person during his visit. Health department officials said so far, 23 such people have been traced, and they have been put on home quarantine for 28 days, while three others have been isolated in district hospital and their samples collected. Speaking to TOI, Sambhal chief medical officer (CMO) Dr Amita Singh said, “It came to our notice that earlier in March, a Moradabad resident who recently tested Covid-19 positive, had attended a funeral of his relative in Deepa Sarai locality of Sambhal. District administration and health department officials visited the location and identified the place he had visited. As many as 23 people, who are identified to have come in contact with the infected person, have been home quarantined for 28 days. Strict directions have been issued to them to comply with the orders given for the period. Police personnel will keep a tab in the area to ensure compliance. Three other people, suspected to have been in closest contact of the patient, have been isolated in district hospital and their blood samples collected for examination. Based on their reports, further course of action will be decided.” Sambhal health department officials said ever since the matter came to light, administration has swung into action and people are being sensitised about the development. While civic authority took up sanitisation of the locality, neighbours have been asked to keep a check on the people quarantined. They can inform police should anyone violate the home quarantine orders.” Moradabad CMO Dr M C Garg told TOI, “The patient had visited Sambhal some time ago. He tested Covid-19 positive recently. As of now, he is admitted in quarantine ward, where his condition is stable. His family has also been home quarantined.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/23-people-quarantined-after-moradabad-du-student-who-tested-covid-19-positive-admits-to-visiting-sambhal-in-march/articleshow/75128927.cms||Maria Khan
April 14, 2020||Thiruvananthapuram||Three new Covid-positive cases on Monday as 19 recover||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM: In an indication that the Covid-19 case graph has well and truly flattened, the state recorded more patient discharges than positive cases on Monday. Only three positive cases were reported while 19 people have recovered, after consecutive negative tests. The state has so far reported 378 cases since the outbreak. Of the three fresh cases reported on Monday, two are in Kannur and one in Palakkad. The person in Palakkad had travelled from abroad, while those in Kannur are primary contacts. Test results of 19 persons were declared negative. Among these, 12 are from Kasaragod, three each from Pathanamthitta and Thrissur, and one from Kannur. At present, 1,12,183 persons are under surveillance, out of which 1,11,468 are under home isolation and 715 are admitted to designated isolation facilities. Till date, 15,683 samples have been sent for testing, of which 14,829 came out negative. Kozhikode has the most number of people under observation, at 17,407, followed by Palakkad (14,787), Malappuram (12,801) and Kasaragod (10,056). Briefing the media after his review meeting, chief minister Pinarayi Vijayan said a matter of concern for the government now is the evacuation of people, especially from the Middle East. “I have written to the Prime Minister once again to arrange a special flight for their return. The state government is ready to take up the responsibility of their quarantine and other needs,” the CM said. He said the testing of samples has improved in the state. At present, at least 1,000 samples are being tested a day. But the state will need more testing kits if more people start arriving from abroad and other states. “The Centre is providing the kits but this is proving insufficient. Even though the state tried to procure some kits directly from manufacturers, there is a delay due to the huge demand,” Vijayan said. On people crossing over from Tamil Nadu surreptitiously, the chief minister said the state government has strengthened vigil along its borders. Leptospirosis and dengue fever cases reported at the Kottayam Medical College Hospital are a concern. Necessary direction has been given to check the spread of the diseases, he said. Several people from Lakshadweep are stranded in the state and there are reports of difficulties faced by them. It has been decided to provide them with food from community kitchens. Steps are on to provide all textbooks from Classes I to X on the online platform, said Vijayan.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/thiruvananthapuram/3-new-covid-positive-cases-on-monday-as-19-recover/articleshow/75128955.cms||---
April 14, 2020||Bhopal||Health dept, AIIMS to begin rapid antibody-based blood tests for COVID-19||Bhopal: Taking heed of the ICMR advisory, the health department and AIIMS-Bhopal are to soon begin rapid antibody-based blood tests for COVID-19. The strategy of the testing would focus on areas reporting a high number of COVID-19 cases. Currently, asymptomatic people are not tested unless they have come in contact with a corona-positive patient. Cases of influenza-like illness are monitored in the health facilities. Any surge in cases is brought to the notice of the surveillance officer or CMHO for additional investigation. In such cases, at the facility level, symptomatic as well as asymptomatic individuals are to be tested using rapid antibody tests, said an official. If the antibody test is negative and the patient — depending on his/her condition — is ‘likely to be non-COVID-19’ but with influenza-like illness, he/she is to be quarantined and observed for 10 days. If the antibody test is positive, there is possibility of recent infection and he/she has to be quarantined for another 10 days, going by the ICMR protocol. Antibody test can also be useful for those on the field and working on the frontline. Experts, however, warn that even though reliable, rapid tests are mostly indicative of the virus. But it would not mean that rapid antibody-based blood test for COVID-19 will pick up every case of the virus. A person at the very start of their COVID-19 infection or with relatively low levels of the virus may show up as negative.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/health-dept-aiims-to-begin-rapid-antibody-based-blood-tests-for-covid-19/articleshow/75130007.cms||---
April 14, 2020||Kolhapur||Citizens panic as SMSes ask them to stay at home||Kolhapur: Residents in many areas of the city went into a panick mode on Sunday evening after receiving messages which asked them to take necessary precautions, mainly stay indoors, to keep coronavirus at bay. Residents from Nagala Park, Rajarampuri and Shahupuri said that they had received the message alerts. People from these localities suspected that someone from their area may have contracted the infection. It has been found that the people living in the localities near to the areas from where the confirmed Covid-19 cases have been reported received the text alerts. Authorities at the district administration said that they started sending the message alerts on a trial basis on Sunday. District collector Daulat Desai said, “As per the directions of the government, residents living in the localities from where the Covid-19 cases have been reported have to be alerted about the precautions. We started the message alert system from Monday.” “A few people who have their mobile numbers registered in these two areas (Kasba Bawda and Mangalwar Peth) but are residing in other areas of the city have also received the messages. We want to make it clear that the text alerts are for the residents in Kasba Bawda and Mangalwar Peth. We have asked the mobile companies to fine tune the service as it will help us alert people and prevent them from defying lockdown rules,” said Desai. A senior official from the district administration said, “The companies have been told to zero in on the mobile numbers of the people currently residing in the localities where the Covid-19 cases have been reported. It is also important to alert the citizens living in the areas surrounding the locality.” “People living in other localities too will start receiving text alerts but that will be for a different purpose—mainly to apprise them about the operational hours of the shops.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolhapur/citizens-panic-as-smses-ask-them-to-stay-at-home/articleshow/75131261.cms||---
April 14, 2020||Jaipur||Rajasthan: Cops take break from chasing crooks, cook for migrant labourers||JAIPUR: For all these years, a day’s work in Chittorgarh’s Chanderia police station involved busting international drug and child trafficking rackets. But, cops there are now involved in an uncharted territory — proving their culinary skills. A 30-member staff of the police station working in two shifts has now taken the responsibility of serving 200 migrant workers. They are no longer focussed on patrolling highways, tracking criminals and preparing reports and chargesheets. They are all busy ensuring the right amount of salt and ingredients in food since the outbreak of pandemic in Bhilwara on March 20. For the last few weeks, one of the most important duty of constable-cum-driver Gajendra Singh is to call migrant labourers to collect food packets twice a day. “I am from a curfew-hit town Bhilwara. I have not seen my family since March 16 despite my home being barely 45 km away. But, I am happy that since the lockdown, I have not ferried any criminal and have instead helped feed thousands of poor,” said Singh. Every afternoon, the staff comes together for cooking on the police station’s compound. Women constables — Sunita Jat and Alka Tailor — take over as captains till the food is prepared. They decide the menu, quantity of vegetables and ingredients. “It gives the feeling of home away from home. It’s like an honour as I am the one directing my superiors — SHO and ASI — and they sportingly follow my advice,” said Jat. She had gone home to Sikar a month ago and lives in police quarters. Before entering into a commitment of providing food till the lockdown period is over, SHO Anil Joshi asked his staff’s approval for the same. “Once they showed interest, I asked them to contribute to the free meal scheme. I am so happy today that even the new recruits who has joined just a few months ago has contributed,” said Joshi. The station cooks one meal so that other functions are not affected. The other meal is provided by civil society members. “Every morning, the meal is decided and circulated on our WhatsApp group. Accordingly, we purchase vegetables. Dry ration including wheat, pulses, soybean and chana has been stocked for weeks. I have learned how to manage a feast of 500 people with ease,” said ASI Rais Shiekh, who along with second ASI Subhash Yadav are responsible for stock, cooking and distribution. What keeps you motivated for a task you are not trained for? Yadav replied, “It is the blessings which we get from the needy,” said Yadav. They try to keep the menu as different as possible from pudi-saga, dal-chawal, roti-sabzi, chana-pudi and sometimes they add a sweet dish to keep migrant workers feel like home. Realising that these migrants cannot reach their homes for another 14 days at least and civil society groups may not able to run the free meal programe in a small town for long, the staff came up with an idea to raise funds among themselves for smooth distribution of meals. The contribution comes in a way of raw materials and cash. The programme started after Bhilwara was sealed on March 20 followed by the migration of workers. Three days later, the national lockdown was announced on March 24, followed by the complete halt of all means of transport.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/cops-take-break-from-chasing-crooks-cook-for-migrant-labourers/articleshow/75130807.cms||Shoeb Khan
April 14, 2020||Nashik||Sikh community distributes sweets among poor people||Nashik: The Sikh community in the city celebrated Baisakhi on Monday by distributing sweets among the poor people amid the crisis. Various city-based gurudwaras have been preparing food for thousands of people every day. They included sweets (kada prasad) in their menu to celebrate this day. Gurmeet Singh Rawal, the president of Deolali gurudwara, said, “We had prepared pulav today to distribute among the poor people and we also gave sheera with it as we wanted to share the big day of Baisakhi.” Baisakhi is the festival of harvesting as the crops are harvested in the fields from this day. “The day is of great value to us. Every year we gather in the gurudwaras and conduct Langar Saheb for everyone. But this year we could not gather at the gurudwaras so only a few of us went and prayed for all,” he added. The Nashik Road gurudwara also distributed jalebis to the migrants who are sheltered in different areas. The president of Nashik Punjabi Welfare Association told TOI, “All the gurudwaras prepared different sweets today. The Nashik Road Gurudwara has beein preparing food for more than 1,500 people per day while all the gurudwaras feed nearly 5,500 people across the city. It is a big day for us and we could share it with many others in the city by distributing food among them.” The annual rituals that include decorating the gurudwaras and conducting community fairs and nagar kirtans for 48 hours did not take place. “Most of the celebration was done by sending messages to each other. We spent the whole day distributing milk among the poor children,” said Jagbir Singh, secretary of Manav Uthan Manch.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/sikh-community-distributes-sweets-among-poor-people/articleshow/75130806.cms||pragya jain
April 14, 2020||Kolhapur||2 test -ve twice, fear still looms in Mangalwar Peth||Kolhapur: The residents of Mangalwar Peth continue to worry even after the two Covid-19 patients from the locality have tested negative twice. Both the Covid-19 patients from the area are undergoing treatment at a hospital and have tested negative twice. The district authorities have declared them free from coronavirus and said they can be discharged. However, the man and his sister are likely to stay in hospital till the end of lockdown. One of them speaking to TOI said that they do not want their family members and the locals to feel uncomfortable. A resident of the area said, “We are relieved that both of them have been treated and are free from the infection. However, we think they should stay in the hospital under the observation of doctors. We don't know whether the infection will resurface or not but it will be better for them to stay isolated for some time.” The doctors said that both of them have been asked to home quarantine themselves for the next 14 days. However, there are no more cases yet so the hospital beds are vacant and they can stay there for some time, said the doctor. The district health authorities are observing the health status of the third Covid-19 patient from Kasba Bawda. She is 63 years old and suffers from tuberculosis. The doctors said that so far she is responding well to the treatment. However, she has to be provided with oxygen mask some times to ensure adequate oxygen level in the blood. All the close contacts of the woman have tested negative and they have been put into institutional quarantine. 17 people who were in close contact to the woman have been put under strict home quarantine. Meanwhile, the containment zone at Kasba Bawda will be relaxed from Tuesday. The survey of the Covid-19 suspected patients has been completed in the locality.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolhapur/2-test-ve-twice-fear-still-looms-in-mangalwar-peth/articleshow/75131263.cms||---
April 14, 2020||Nashik||NSS volunteers of MUHS get training in handling Covid cases||Nashik: Nearly 8,800 National Service Scheme (NSS) volunteers of Maharashtra University of Health Sciences (MUHS) across the state are getting professional training from experts to help the district administration in the Covid-19 crisis.Experts from Ministry of AYUSH are training the master trainers prepared by the MUHS, who instead train 113 programme officer across the state. The programme officer then will impart their training to the volunteers.Deelip Mhaisekar, the vice-chancellor of MUHS said “After my video conference with the governor, we decided that the NSS volunteers should be ready to go out in the field so that they can be helpful to the district administration when required. It would be useful for the students to get hands on training via online methods directly from the experts.” The volunteers had to register through a Google form to compile their details in one place. The details comprised their current phone number and interests in various fields.Sandip Kulkarni, the director of the Social Welfare Department, MUHS, said “All our students registered on the Google form and we had their compiled data with us within a week. Now, the training process has started which will enable the students to be deployed in various fields of their interest.”“The students are being prepared for community service programmes. The volunteers are mainly being trained for public health services as the current emergency situation rose due to the outbreak of Covid-19,” he added. The online training is being coordinated by 133 programme officers across the state in various colleges affiliated with MUHS. The programme officers have undertaken the two and a half hours training from the master trainers. Now are imparting it to the NSS volunteers. They conduct the basic training via Zoom application. Aishwarya Ranade, a programme officer of MUHS said “We are training our students about how to carry out surveillance, conduct counselling of Covid-19 positive patients etc. We are also teaching them about the difference between quarantine and isolation, how social distancing works and why hand hygiene is a must.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/nss-volunteers-of-muhs-get-training-in-handling-covid-cases/articleshow/75130810.cms||pragya jain
April 14, 2020||Kolkata||Too many calls leave skeletal taxi service overwhelmed||Kolkata: With state government allowing a skeletal metered taxi service during the lockdown, cabbies got flooded with calls for emergency commuting from across the city. The demand for emergency commuting exceeded the availability of this service in the city. Taxi operators said that since Saturday morning, requests for emergency travel kept pouring in through their emergency numbers from several people in distress, including a kidney patient, who needed an urgent dialysis, traders, who wanted to open their medicine shops following emergency calls from their loyal customers, and an IT employee having an emergency assignment at office.  “Many people from across the city kept calling us but we could not meet the demands of all. For, the number of taxis that could ply on the first two days was less than 100. Many of our drivers have gone back to their native places before the lockdown. Secondly, we are still facing hindrances from the police. Patients travelling in cabs have to come out and plead with the police for allowing them to go to hospitals or doctors’ chambers. Unless PVD gives us some authorization, we will have to be facing such problems,” said Sanjib Roy of Bengal Taxi Association. Following the requirement of emergency commute and the demand-supply gap, Kolkata Police, on Sunday, advertised the launch of taxi services for emergency on social media. “Call 1073 to avail of on-call taxi services for emergency within the city. This is a limited service, for which documentary support is needed. The taxis will reach your door. Not more than three persons can travel at a time,” Kolkata Police stated on DCP Traffic Twitter handle. Twenty-five traffic guards said they are being provided with the names of 70 taxi drivers, along with their phone numbers, registration numbers, and of the spots where they are supposed to park their vehicles. The areas for temporary parking of taxis include Behala, Thakurpukur, Garia, Shyambazar, Dum Dum, Sealdah, Exide Crossing, Ultadanga, Khidderpore and Dunlop. However, immediately after the launch, the service faced some issues. “I called 1073 for the emergency taxi service. The lady who received the call kept the phone down,” alleged Abhishek Ghosh on Twitter. Cops claimed there might have a “network error.” Meanwhile, the app cab operators wanted to fill the demand supply gap. “We are ready for the service,” said Indranil Banerjee, general secretary, online cab operators’ guild.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/too-many-calls-leave-skeletal-taxi-service-overwhelmed/articleshow/75118449.cms||Krishnendu Bandyopadhyay
April 14, 2020||Dehradun||2 govt hosp docs kept in isolation wards in Roorkee||Roorkee: Two doctors, presently posted at different community health centres (CHC) in Haridwar district, have been kept in isolation wards after they showed coronavirus-like symptoms. "The doctors had informed the district’s chief medical officer that they were suffering from cough, fever, and headache. Subsequently, they were brought here and shifted to isolation wards as a precautionary measure," said Dr Sanjay Kansas, chief medical superintendent of Roorkee Civil Hospital. Meanwhile, two other suspected cases of coronavirus were admitted to Roorkee Civil Hospital on Monday bringing the total number of such patients in the facility to 16. They all have been kept in isolation wards. As many as 15 patients have been discharged from the facility after they tested negative for the virus.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/2-govt-hosp-docs-kept-in-isolation-wards-in-roorkee/articleshow/75130042.cms||Tapan Susheel
April 14, 2020||Kolhapur||Motorcyles of 3,000 violators seized for violating norms||Kolhapur: The district police have seized over 3,000 motorcycles from citizens venturing out in the streets without a valid reason ever since the lockdown came into effect. Police had started appealing to the citizens to stay at home and not venture out unless they have a valid reason like buying essentials like groceries, vegetables and medicines at the outset of the lockdown. “For the first two days, we allowed citizens who were coming out as they cited reasons like they have to visit the hospital or buy medicines, etc. Later,we realized people were misusing the relaxations and accordingly started taking necessary action. Initially, we started registering cases against the violators. Later, we started seizing their vehicles. This exercise has helped as very few people now venture out of their homes,” said a senior police officer. As a precautionary measure, barricades have been put up on the arterial roads connecting to the main roads and barriers have been set up in most of the important road junctions in the city. The police officer said that the drive of seizing vehicles from those violating rules would continue till the lockdown was lifted. “So far, we have seized more than 3,000 motorcycles. The vehicles will be returned to the respective owners after they produce the valid documents. We have also booked several people for violating lockdown norms. Appropriate action will be taken against them once the lockdown is lifted,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolhapur/motorcyles-of-3000-violators-seized-for-violating-norms/articleshow/75131266.cms||---
April 14, 2020||Kolhapur||Despite ban on carrying passengers, Gokul milk tankers found flouting rule||Kolhapur: Even though the district administration has issued strict directions to those involved in transport of essential goods to refrain from ferrying passengers during lockdown, tankers belonging to Kolhapur District Cooperative Milk Association (Gokul) have been found flouting this rule. In the past two days, police have found that drivers of three milk tankers have been involved in ferrying passengers from Navi Mumbai to Kolhapur. Around 30 tankers ply between Gokul in Kolhapur and its Navi Mumbai unit for supplying milk. District collector Daulat Desai has already issued instructions that if anyone is found carrying passengers from other districts to Kolhapur, the driver along with the passengers will be quarantined for 15 days at designated isolation centres in the district as a precautionary measure. "All the passengers and drivers of the tankers have been kept in institutional quarantine for 15 days to ensure that they are not the carriers of the coronavirus. We have also registered cases against them for violation of lockdown. We will initiate the process of arresting them and producing them in the court once they are released from their quarantine. We have also seized the tankers," a senior police officer said. "We are taking strict action against anyone who is found ferrying passengers in their vehicles. At present, only vehicles carrying essential materials are plying on roads across the state and we have already issued instructions to the authorities concerned to strictly follow the rules and ensure that the drivers follow the rules. Strict action will be taken against the drivers if they are found flouting any rules," he added. Speaking to TOI, Sanjay Dinde, Gokul’s PRO, said, "When we give contract to a tanker for supplying milk from our dairy to other places, we sign a contract in which it is written that carrying passengers in the milk tanker is strictly prohibited. This is a routine process even before the lockdown and it is the responsibility of the police to take action against the violators as per the rule. Gokul is not at associated in his type of illegal practices."||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolhapur/despite-ban-on-carrying-passengers-gokul-milk-tankers-found-flouting-rule/articleshow/75131271.cms||Vivek Waghmode
April 14, 2020||Kolhapur||Beneficiaries rush to banks to check a/c balance||Kolhapur: A large number of citizens have been queueing up in front of the banks in the city from the beginning of this month. Serpentine queues can be observed outside some banks even before the establishments open. Citizens queueing up before the banks are mainly pensioners, government beneficiaries and farmers. While most of them pay no heed to the social distancing norms while queueing up before the banks, a handful of citizens can be spotted with masks or cloths covering their face and mouth. One person at a branch of a district central cooperative bank said that he had come to withdraw Rs 2000 that has been deposited by the Central government in his account. “I am a farmer. I was told that a sum of Rs 2000 under the farmers’ scheme have been released. I have a small farm. Right now, I have no money to buy ration,” said the person. A large number of women were also seen standing in the queues for long hours. While woman said that she had come to withdraw her late husband’s pension, another woman said that she had come just to check the balance in her account. The latter was told by someone that Rs 500 has been deposited in her account by the Central government. A senior district official requesting anonymity said, “Orders have already been issued to deliver money in the hands of the concerned beneficiaries. The staff of the postal department have been assigned for this work. People have to stay indoors. The fact that banks have decided to stay open for a few hours is the reason why so many people are flocking to the banks in the morning. We have asked the banks to remain open till their normal operational hours.” Meanwhile, many clinics in the city are still keeping their shutters down. The local leaders have assured the doctors that they will be provided with personal protective equipment (PPE) kits and requested them to keep their clinics open and check patients. The out patient department of many hospitals have been closed since the last 21 days. Congress MLA from Kolhapur Ruturaj Patil has donated 1,000 protection kits among the doctors. He said that more kits would be made available to the doctors and sanitisers and masks would be provided to the staff of the hospitals.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolhapur/beneficiaries-rush-to-banks-to-check-a/c-balance/articleshow/75131269.cms||---
April 14, 2020||Kolkata||Hiccups gone, varsity teachers at ease on e-path||Kolkata: Twenty days on and another two months to go, teachers at universities and professional institutes are now comfortably treading a tech-powered path to ensure that students do not run behind schedule on classes and examinations. “Necessity has transformed us overnight,” said Ujjwal K Chowdhury, pro-VC and dean (SMCF), at the Adamas University, “as and when UGC ordered us to go online, teachers especially in the universities have quickly adapted themselves to the space. We shared knowledge among ourselves and learnt on the job to beat the initial hiccups. We are using Google Class and Zoom sessions for content-sharing and discussions.” The Adamas professors are sending pdf, ppts, links, case studies via email and Google Classroom, marking attendance on Google Spreadsheet and WhatsApp group. Amity University’s Kolkata campus always had a virtual platform for communicating with its other campuses and amid this current exigency, the authority is utilising it to the fullest. “We have uploaded all course modules on the platform. The university made sure that even the students who were told to leave campus and vacate their hostel rooms are not left behind,” said a senior professor of its computer science department. For Maulana Abul Kalam Azad University of Technology (Makaut) head examiner Debanjan Banerjee, online classes are no longer a new phenomenon. “But, it has become indispensable now. We are using Zoom, Wideo, Teachertube, Hi Task, Google Course Builder etc. And attendance has considerably improved,” added Banerjee, who is also a professor at NSHM Kolkata. Most institutes like Adamas and NSHM have enrolled themselves in TCSion Learning Management System for taking the classes and discussions ahead. In some places, teachers are taking assistance from Swayam and CourseEra online resources. The associate professor at Surendranath College for Women, Uma Shankar Pandey, found online syncing a challenge both at the level of technology and pedagogy.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/hiccups-gone-varsity-teachers-at-ease-on-e-path/articleshow/75118466.cms||Sovon Manna
April 14, 2020||Bhopal||Stressed out cops, queue up for counselling from docs||Bhopal: “There is a Covid-19 positive patient near my house, will I also be infected?” “If I have come in contact with Corona positive patient, can I test positive even after a month?” “Are homemade masks effective?” These were some of the questions cops are asking doctors during their counselling at police control room in Bhopal. The apprehensions by the cops are real: So far, 14 cops and 9 of their family members have tested positive till Monday. And the number is counting. Senior cops maintained that due to the spread of Covid-19 in police force, the cops deployed on field duty are worried and working under a lot of stress. Many cops have doubts in their mind over Covid-19 and often find the symptoms of it in them. To boost their morale, SP (South) Sai Krishna S Thota and CSP Bhupendra Singh have sought help of Dr Gurudutt Tiwari who is now examining the cops at the police control room for an hour daily to counsel the policemen. SP Thota said that policemen are worried and are working in stress. As such, they have been shifted to hotels to ensure safety of their family members. The counselling session on Monday was for traffic cops. Around 30 traffic cops met Dr Tiwari and cleared their doubts. SP Thota said that the cops were counselled and told that in around 85% cases, the patients do not suffer any severe problems. SP Thota said that Dr Tiwari’s sessions will continue daily in the coming days. CSP Bhupendra Singh said that policemen were made aware on how to boost their immunity. Working for long hours in scorching sun is taking its toll on the cops. The cops are being told to maintain a survival kit, in which they should drinking water, some peanuts to eat, Glucose powder/ORS and some fruits like orange. So that they may not get dehydrated while performing their duty. He said that police were planning to conduct counselling by psychologists and dieticians as well.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/stressed-out-cops-queue-up-for-counselling-from-docs/articleshow/75130056.cms||---
April 14, 2020||Dehradun||Tourism min talks to DMs for feedback on Char Dham Yatra preparations||Dehradun: State tourism minister Satpal Maharaj held a video conferencing session with district magistrates of Uttarkashi, Rudraprayag and Chamoli to discuss the preparations for this year’s Char Dham Yatra. Speaking to TOI, Maharaj said, “Till date no case of novel coronavirus has been reported from these three districts. We are studying the situation and after all the findings, a report would be forwarded to the Centre. The Centre will take a call on opening of the portals and also the format of the yatra this year.” Rudraprayag DM Mangesh Ghildiyal said, “Our feedback on preparations was sought and we have provided the required inputs.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/tourism-min-talks-to-dms-for-feedback-on-char-dham-yatra-preparations/articleshow/75130063.cms||---
April 14, 2020||Nashik||9 friends donate 12,000 masks to police & govt personnel||Nashik: Nine friends have produced 12,000 masks to donate policemen, government employees, and essential commodities officials. The group had earlier taken permission from the police authorities for making and distributing masks to fill the scarcity of masks of all the three departments. On Sunday, they donated 5,000 masks to the city police commissioner office. Rajesh Sawant, one of the group members, said that it was a joint decision by all of them to produce the masks. “The most important equipment to fight novel Coronavirus is a mask. When we came to know that there is a shortage of masks for the government employees, my friends and I thought of preparing and supplying the same.” In a week’s time, they managed to prepare 12,000 masks and later sanitised them so that they are safe to wear. “Once the process of sanitising is done, 5000 masks will be given to the district collector’s office this week,” Sawant told TOI. The remaining 2,000 maks will be donated to the workers of the essential services. “People like gas cylinder delivery men, vegetable vendors, etc need masks as they come in contact with many people every day,” Sawant said. The group took the help of police constables to reach out to a cloth merchant during the lockdown period. “Since we could not roam around and ask the shopkeepers to open their shops for us, we asked the police officials to come with us,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/9-friends-donate-12000-masks-to-police-govt-personnel/articleshow/75130815.cms||pragya jain
April 14, 2020||Kochi||Thrissur hosp has just one Covid patient||Thrissur: With the discharge of one more person on Monday, only one Covid-19 patient remains in hospital in Thrissur, which had reported the first Covid case in the country. Altogether, Thrissur had 13 Covid-19 positive cases so far, and 12 of them had been discharged so far after they tested negative twice consecutively. As per the latest figures, 9,743 people are under home quarantine now in the district and another 11 people are under Covid-19 surveillance in different hospitals. Another nine persons who had come from abroad had come to Kerala on Monday after spending their quarantine period in Delhi. They were sent to their houses in special vehicles and ambulances. They have been asked to undergo home quarantine in the coming days. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/thrissur-hosp-has-just-one-covid-patient/articleshow/75129001.cms||---
April 14, 2020||Kochi||Skygazers rejoice as pollution recedes||KOCHI: The coronavirus lockdown and the resulting drop in levels of pollution have come as a blessing for amateur stargazers who are experiencing clearer night skies. On Sunday night astro-enthusiasts in Kerala could witness the passing of the International Space Station (ISS), the largest man-made object in low earth orbit clearly wherever the sky was not cloudy. “It was quite clear on Sunday. I felt that the duration of the view was longer, and this could be due to less pollution and haze. Every time the ISS passes overhead, we make it a point to view it,” said Rajani T R, an amateur stargazer and teacher with Government Boys Higher Secondary School, Aluva. Harikumar KS of Breakthrough Science Society (BSS) said stargazers are reporting clearer night skies. "I could not watch the passing of ISS on Sunday since the sky was cloudy, but many are experiencing clearer skies. Yesterday, the space station was visible at 7.21 pm and many could even photograph it with their mobile phones. Normally, it is impossible to see it clearly because of the haze," said Harikumar. Francis Kalathungal, vice president, BSS, said though the society has not critically verified if there is anecdotal evidence. "The night skies appear to be more "transparent" now. Star clusters seem to be more vivid. It may be attributed to two reasons, the downgrade in atmospheric pollution and the widespread summer rains might have washed down the dust particles. However, since there's too much cloud cover, sky watching using telescopes is locked down like any other activity," he said. BSS is currently engaged in organising online science lectures. On Saturday, they organized a webinar on SARS-Cov-2 pandemic by Subramani M, former professor of Vanderbilt University, US. “We are planning to organise similar programmes in the district level soon,” said Harikumar.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/skygazers-rejoice-as-pollution-recedes/articleshow/75128987.cms||Binu Karunakaran
April 14, 2020||Thiruvananthapuram||Stranded Brits to be flown out tomorrow||Thiruvananthapuram: After flights to Germany and the Maldives, a special aircraft will evacuate stranded British nationals from Trivandrum International Airport on Wednesday. The British High Commission has sought approval to operate the chartered flight from Thiruvananthapuram to London via Kochi. Two teams of diplomatic officers from British Deputy High Commission in Chennai and Bengaluru were in the state on Monday to oversee the arrangements. UK nationals stranded in the state can check FCO's India Travel Advice page to book flights and for registration details, said an official statement from the British consulate. As per the proposed schedule, the flight will arrive in Thiruvananthapuram on Wednesday evening and leave within an hour after completing boarding procedures. “They have submitted a letter for approval and the application is under process. They have requested approval for British Airways flight service. The flight will arrive from UK. After completing the passenger boarding within an hour, the flight will leave from Thiruvananthapuram for Kochi. After boarding passengers from Cial, the flight will leave for UK,” said C V Ravindran, airport director, Trivandrum Airport. The airport will arrange check-in, immigration, customs and other security checks. Tourism and police departments are also involved in the evacuation of the UK nationals.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/thiruvananthapuram/stranded-brits-to-be-flown-out-tomorrow/articleshow/75129016.cms||---
April 14, 2020||Lucknow||KGMU seeks nod for plasma therapy trial||LUCKNOW: King George’s Medical University (KGMU) is preparing for clinical trials of convalescent plasma therapy which uses antibodies from the blood of people who have been cured of coronavirus infection to treat critically-ill Covid-19 patients. The initiative will be rolled out as soon as the Indian Council for Medical Research (ICMR) releases protocol for medical education institutes after getting approval from the drug controller general of India (DCGI). In charge of infectious diseases unit at KGMU Dr D Himanshu said, “We have informed patients who have recovered from novel coronavirus infection to be ready for antibody test after their 14 days of home quarantine. If their plasma is found suitable, we will seek their permission for transfusion. If they give consent, we will start therapy.” “In this therapy, blood is drawn from a person who has recovered from the disease and serum is separated before screening for virus-neutralizing antibodies produced by our immune system to fight against the pathogen,” he said. “We have also sought permission from KGMU’s ethical committee of research cell,” he added. In charge of research cell Prof RK Garg said, “ICMR will decide protocol for clinical trials and select institutes where they can be carried. There is strong possibility of KGMU getting approval.” KGMU was among the first centres in UP to get ICMR’s permission for Covid-19 tests. “We have expertise and infrastructure required to extract plasma and transfuse it in critical Covid-19 patients who are suffering from severe acute respiratory syndrome (breathing difficulty) or those on ventilator,” Prof Garg said. “Recently, the United States tried this therapy on five critical Covid-19 patients. Though there was improvement in their condition, it is too early to draw the conclusion that it will solve the entire problem,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/kgmu-seeks-nod-for-plasma-therapy-trial/articleshow/75131277.cms||Vivek Singh Chauhan
April 14, 2020||Visakhapatnam||Wild boar spotted after two decades||VISAKHAPATNAM: Following the lockdown imposed to prevent the spread of Covid-19, it has been reported that in many places animals have begun returning to their natural habitats. In Vizag, it is the wild boar, which has not been sighted in the last two decades. Seethammadhara hill, which is part of the Simhachalam range, once supported a rich eco-system and thriving wildlife. It has now been reclaimed for housing purpose and much of it has turned into a concrete jungle. According to sources in the forest department, nobody has sighted a wild boar in the hilly terrain in more than two decades. However, recently a resident of the colony sighted one close to human habitation. Speaking to TOI, D N Sinha, a long-time resident of Visakhapatnam said, “What is now known as the health city, the Arilova extension was a popular tiger hunting spot till as late as the 1950s.” Conservator of forests, Visakhapatnam circle, Rahul Pandey said, “Visakhapatnam is a city with a vast green belt. Given the huge forest and uninterrupted green areas in the city, it is not surprising that wildlife is showing up in areas, which have been colonised by humans, especially in these circumstances.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/visakhapatnam/wild-boar-spotted-after-two-decades/articleshow/75130069.cms||Venkatesh Bayya
April 14, 2020||Surat||GJC to give financial relief to goldsmiths||Surat: All India Gems and Jewellery Domestic Council (GJC) plans to provide financial relief to small-time gold jewellery artisans, who have been severely hit by the ongoing 21-day lockdown announced by the government to contain spread of COVID-19 across the country.GJC office-bearers stated that a relief fund has been created for small-time artisans. A donation of Rs1,500 will be transferred directly into the bank accounts of individual goldsmiths after verifying their details from respective jewellers’ associations in different parts of the country.GJC chairman Anantha Padmanabhan told TOI, “We are getting donations from our member jewellers for giving financial support to small-time goldsmiths working individually or in small groups to earn their living. Each one of them will be given Rs1,500 as immediate relief. We have asked all our association members across the country to submit details of such karigars, who are in dire need of money. About 500 goldsmiths have been identified in the last couple of days and we have started transferring Rs1,500 into their bank accounts.”He said about 25,000 goldsmiths will be given cash relief in the first phase. There are about 2,200 GJC members across the country and each one has been asked to make their contribution for the karigars. “Majority of goldsmiths working in big, small and medium manufacturing units and with jewellery showrooms are being taken care of by their employers. But small goldsmiths, who are working on their own, are severely hit during the lockdown,” Padmanabham said.Nainesh Pachchigar, director of GJC (Gujarat), said, “Small karigars are in dire need of money. We are making all efforts to collect details of such karigars from across the state to provide them with financial relief. In Gujarat alone, more than 50,000 small-time karigars may need immediate help.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/gjc-to-give-financial-relief-to-goldsmiths/articleshow/75130823.cms||---
April 14, 2020||Nashik||Bhujbal: Let’s banish virus before Ramzan||Nashik: State food and civil supplies and Nashik district guardian minister Chhagan Bhujbal on Monday requested the residents of Malegaon to join hands to combat Covid-19 and get rid of the virus before Ramzan. “Anyone who has any sign of respiratory ailment, or has cold and fever, should visit the health centres and get examined, even tested for Covid-19 if required. This will help stop the spread of the disease. I appeal to you all to come together and get rid of the infection before Ramzaan and Eid,” Bhujbal said. Bhujbal conducted a health review meeting at the government rest house and held dialogues with all the government officials, including the elected representatives, MLA and agriculture minister Dada Bhuse, MLA Mufti Mohammad Ismail, mayor Tahera Shaikh, divisional commissioner Rajaram Mane, IG Nashik Range Cherring Dorje, collector Suraj Mandhare, superintendent of police Arti Singh, medical superintendent Kishor Dange and others. Dada Bhuse also warned the citizens against non-cooperation. “No person is above the law. If there is a lockdown in the area, that means nobody should be moving about on the streets. The police would go to any length to ensure nobody is loitering about for fun,” Bhuse said. He said the government was procuring thermal scanners, which would be made available for Malegaon city as well. Divisional commissioner Rajaram Mane brushed aside the misgivings about health surveys. “The surveys are for health conditions only. They have nothing to do with citizenship,” he said. Two more test positive Collector Suraj Mandhare pointed out that there were two more Covid-19 positive patients reported in the district. “The throat swab sample of a relative of a Covid-positive patient in Malegaon had tested positive. The the swab of a person admitted to Zakir Hussain three days ago, who hails from Sinnar, also tested positive in the Armed Forced Medical College laboratory. Both have been moved to isolation wards in sub-district hospital in Malegaon and Civil Hospital Nashik, respectively,” he said. Pankaj Ashiya, assistant collector, who is the chief coordinator at Emergency Operation Centre, Malegaon city, said that administration would be using the services of 350 Unani doctors to treat patients with mild symptoms. Central assistance sought Bhujbal has sought central government’s assistance for food for the people in Maharashtra. In a video conference with cabinet minister of consumer affairs, food and public distribution Ram Vilas Paswan, Bhujbal said: “The state had sufficient food supplies for 7 crore beneficiaries of PDS for six months, but central government should support about 5 crore people across the state who do not fit in the category and their income is not enough to sustain them during the hard times.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/bhujbal-lets-banish-virus-before-ramzan/articleshow/75130832.cms||Abhilash Botekar
April 14, 2020||Kolkata||Covid 19 patient with transplanted kidney recovers||Siliguri: A 58-year-old Covid-19 patient from Kalimpong, who had undergone a kidney transplant 14 years ago, recovered and was discharged from a private hospital in Siliguri on Saturday. While four other Covid- 19 positive patients were released from the hospital, four more were released from Beliaghata ID Hospital on Sunday. The man, a close kin of the 44-year-old-woman, who had succumbed to the virus on March 30, is probably the first Covid-19 positive person with a serious renal condition to survive the viral attack.  He was released from Dr Chang’s Hospital in Siliguri where he had been undergoing treatment since April 1 along with five others of the family, including the two who had tested positive. Four other Covid-19 positive patients were released from the hospital on Sunday. Even though the Kalimpong patient had tested positive, he remained asymptomatic. But since he had undergone a kidney transplant in 2006 and was exposed to the family member who died of Covid-19, doctors called him vulnerable and got his samples tested. He was admitted to hospital immediately after his test report confirmed Covid-19.The patient’s son Bijay Singh said his father had been under medication and underwent check-ups at an interval of every six months. “He had to lead a restricted life and his lifestyle is different from others in the family. Apart from the kidney transplant, he does not have any other medical history. He was asymptotic but tested positive for Covid-19. We were extremely worried for him but thankfully he has recovered,” he said. Three members of the family had tested positive on April 1. Gopal Krishna Dhali, a member of the health expert committee for Covid- 19 said the family members were released after they had tested negative twice and their health condition was found to be stable. The co-morbidities, however, could have been fatal, according to doctors in Kolkata. “A diabetic with a transplanted kidney will be more vulnerable to a Coronavirus attack than the rest. And the virus could do much more damage to such a patient since he or she is likely to have lower immunity, which makes the viral attack more severe, often fatal,” said Arindam Biswas of RN Tagore International Institute of Cardiac Sciences (RTIICS). Out of 11 Covid -19 patients at Dr Chang’s Hospital, seven have been discharged and the rest have been undergoing treatment.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/covid-19-patient-with-transplanted-kidney-recovers/articleshow/75118482.cms||Roshan Gupta
April 14, 2020||Dehradun||Mystery disease kills 55 goats in Pauri||Dehradun: As many as 55 goats have been found dead in Pokhra block of Pauri Garhwal district within a fortnight. Locals claim that the infected goats are showing symptoms like shivering, runny nose, among others. With tourism minister Satpal Maharaj,who is MLA of the area, taking cognisance of these deaths, the animal husbandry department swung into action. On Monday, the revenue and animal husbandry teams inspected the spots and confirmed that 32 goats from Gadri Kola, Sald, and Kunaj villages have died from what is being termed a mystery disease. Other neighbourhood villages have also reported such deaths. Pauri Garhwal’s chief veterinary officer Dr SK Singh told TOI that the actual cause of these deaths would be ascertained only after postmortem examination. “It seems like a seasonal viral disease. We record such deaths every year, but confirmed cause of deaths can be divulged only after we get autopsy reports on Tuesday.” Meanwhile, the deaths have triggered panic among villagers who were apprehensive on whether these deaths could be related to Covid-19.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/mystery-disease-kills-55-goats-in-pauri/articleshow/75130075.cms||Shivani Azad
April 14, 2020||Thiruvananthapuram||Exercise caution as Covid-19 threat persists: Minister||Thiruvananthapuram: Health minister K K Shailaja urged Keralites to strictly follow the social distancing policy, especially during festival season, as the state is still combating Covid-19 threat. “As we are strictly following quarantine norms, chances are less for a spike in cases. But, caution should continue,” she said. More people are discharged in state compared to other states. However, it cannot be said that we have reached a safe zone. We have to be more cautious since there is a chance for an increase in the number of cases, she added. "Health department is trying to source maximum kits for testing. We want to test people who have the slightest of symptoms. At present, 10 labs are conducting the tests. Though the Centre is providing us the kits, it is insufficient," said the minister. Though there is no concern about the stock of kits, if there is an increase in the number of cases, we will need more kits. Hence we are hoping that things will improve, Shailaja said. In Kerala, Covid care centres have started functioning. We are providing best available treatment to people and that was the reason why we could discharge more people, including senior citizens. The contact tracing was the best in state, said the minister Health department received best possible support from the police and local body departments. There is a concern that some cases might have gone unnoticed. Hence, monitoring is continuing in the state. Till date, the success was due to the timely-quarantine of persons who arrived from abroad and tracking those who came in direct contact with patients. "The virus spread in other states, especially neighbouring ones, should come down. Then only we can control the spread of the virus in Kerala. Hence, government is waiting for the Centre’s decision on how to relax restrictions imposed as part of the lockdown, she added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/thiruvananthapuram/exercise-caution-as-covid-19-threat-persists-minister/articleshow/75129032.cms||---
April 14, 2020||Visakhapatnam||Six Japanese stranded in Vizag return home||VISAKHAPATNAM: Six Japanese nationals who were stranded in the city following the lockdown since March 23 were shifted to Bengaluru in a chartered flight on Monday. They would join other Japanese nationals there. Together they will leave for their country in a special flight arranged by the Japanese government. Speaking to TOI, airport director Raj Kishore said the six Japanese nationals were sent to Bengaluru in an eight-seater charted flight at around 10.35 am. “We came to know that they were stranded in the city following the lockdown. A special flight would leave for Japan at night,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/visakhapatnam/6-japanese-stranded-in-city-return-home/articleshow/75130092.cms||---
April 14, 2020||Lucknow||Summer slam begins as mercury nears 40 degree celsius||LUCKNOW: Summer has started peaking in the city. On Monday, the maximum temperature in Lucknow was 38.8 degrees Celsius — the hottest day of the season so far — and it is predicted to touch 40 degrees Celsius on Tuesday, the last day of the 21 days lockdown. According to the weather office, hot and humid conditions will intensify and the maximum temperature will soar further in the coming days. The day was clear on Monday with bright sunshine and heat. The night was also warm, with minimum temperature at 20.8 degrees Celsius. Hot conditions prevailed since morning, though light wind with velocity of 11km/hour provided some relief. Earlier, the highest maximum temperature of 38.1 degrees Celsius this year was recorded on Saturday. Last year, April 16 was the hottest April day when the maximum temperature rose to 42 degrees Celsius. State Met director JP Gupta said dry hot northwesterly winds coming from Pakistan are pushing temperatures upwards in the state, including Lucknow. Similar conditions will prevail throughout the week with clear sky and heat conditions. In fact, maximum temperature may rise to 41 degrees Celsius by Thursday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/summer-slam-begins-as-mercury-nears-40c/articleshow/75131285.cms||---
April 14, 2020||Visakhapatnam||Banana farmers in EG stare at major losses amid lockdown||KAKINADA: Banana farmers in East Godavari have been severely hit by the lockdown imposed to contain the spread of Covid-19. According to estimates, the farmers could lose nearly 50% of their costs this year. While the state government is rolling out measures to help the farmers, the lack of demand has put them in a fix. Marriages being postponed and temples being closed has led to a fall in the demand for bananas. Bananas are cultivated across 13,000 hectares across East Godavari district. Meesala Raju, a banana farmer-trader from Ambajipeta, said that a tenant farmer spends around Rs 1.5 lakh on each acre including lease and it will be difficult to recover even 50% of the investment. “Meanwhile, prices have declined drastically. The price of the Chakrakeli variety has come down from Rs 250 a bunch to Rs 100 a bunch,” Raju said while adding that the lack of storage facilities is hurting banana farmers the most during the crisis. Konda Reddy, president of Ravulapalem Agriculture Market Committee Traders’ Association said that the price of one tonne banana has come down from Rs 8,000-10,000 to Rs 4,000-5,000. He said that around 12,000 bunches of banana would come into the market every day before the lockdown. The number has come down to around 3,000 bunches now. N Mallikharjuna Rao, assistant director horticulture, Amalapuram said that the government is taking all necessary measures to ensure that banana farmers get better prices. He said that agriculture marketing committees are purchasing the Chakrakeli variety for Rs 200 per bunch and the Karpura variety for Rs60 per bunch. He further said that the Society for Elimination of Rural Poverty (SERP) is purchasing bananas through DWACRA groups.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/visakhapatnam/banana-farmers-in-eg-stare-at-major-losses-amid-lockdown/articleshow/75130081.cms||Samson Raj
April 14, 2020||Dehradun||Covid-19: Curfew imposed in Banbhoolpura area of U’khand||Dehradun: A day after thousands of residents of Banbhoolpura in Haldwani area of Nainital district came out in the streets to protest, the state government on Monday decided to impose curfew in the area. With this, Banbhoolpura became the first location in the state, where curfew has been imposed in the wake of the ongoing Covid-19 crisis. Earlier, seven localities across Uttarakhand had been sealed after cases of novel coronavirus were registered there. Terming the incident in Banbhoolpura area on Sunday — when despite the lockdown, a large number of people came out on the streets following spread of a rumour — as “unfortunate,” CM Trivendra Singh Rawat said, “We had to take a tough stand that such acts will not be tolerated at a time when the entire state and country is united in the efforts to fight Covid-19. That is why,curfew has been imposed at Banbhoolpura.” The CM pointed out that presently around 2,500 tourists, including 1,300 foreigners were in Uttarakhand due to the lockdown. “We are taking proper care of them and they are not facing any problem. Of the 1,200 domestic tourists, the maximum of 175 are from West Bengal. We also have tourists from Uttar Pradesh, Maharashtra and other states. They are facing no problem and are safe here,” he added. On the issue of relaxation and opening of some offices during the lockdown period, the CM said, “The state is awaiting the guidelines from the Centre, which will arrive latest by Tuesday. Earlier, the focus was on saving lives but now the focus will also be on the economy. We will need to take care of both.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/covid-19-curfew-imposed-in-banbhoolpura-area-of-ukhand/articleshow/75129040.cms||Kautilya Singh
April 14, 2020||Lucknow||KGMU launches triage system to curb coronavirus spread||LUCKNOW: Patients visiting the King George’s Medical University (KGMU) with flu or Covid-19 symptoms will not have to run around for help while putting themselves or others at risk of infection. KGMU has set up triage system to direct suspected patients from emergency casualty unit to neurology department where triage facility has been arranged. The patients are tested at neurology department and sent to infectious diseases ward if their swab sample is found positive for Covid-19. If a patient is tested negative, he is sent to the department concerned for treatment. The triage system, set up under head of pediatrics department Prof Shally Awasthi and Prof Kausar Usman of medicine department, entails sorting of patients based on requirement of immediate medical treatment. Prof Usman said the facility was based on the ground floor of neurology department opposite the infectious disease ward where Covid patients were being isolated. “When patients come to emergency, they are sent to triage if they have symptoms similar to Covid-19 and require admission. Symptomatic treatment is started and their samples are sent to microbiology department for testing,” he said. “A patient is kept in triage for 24-36 hours till the report is received. If it is negative, they are sent to the department concerned for treatment, while positive patients are sent to Covid-19 ward. This eliminates the risk of infection to patients who might directly go to Covid-19 ward if the triage is not there,” he added. The 12-bed facility has eight beds for adults and four for children. The facility also has two ventilators each for children and adults. Currently, 11 patients have been admitted to the triage. Till now, only one patient has been tested positive.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/kgmu-launches-triage-system-to-curb-virus-spread/articleshow/75131290.cms||---
April 14, 2020||Kozhikode||116 more persons test negative in Malappuram||Malappuram: The test results of 116 more persons in the district yielded negative for Covid-19 on Monday. According to medical authorities, a total of 1,302 persons tested negative of novel coronavirus infection in the district so far. The test results of the swab samples of 143 persons are yet to be received. Six more persons who were under treatment at Government Medical College, Manjeri, were discharged on Monday morning. Fathima, 60, a native of Areekode; Alishan Saleem, 28, a native of Tanalur; Muhammed Sahad, 24, a native of Kadalundi; Abdul Kareem, 31, from Vengara; Muhammed Basheer, 41, a native of Payyanad; and Fasil, 31, native of Edappal; were discharged as their two consecutive test results were negative. With this, the total number of persons who recovered from infection in the district is at 8. Meanwhile, 62 more persons were brought under observation to check the spread of Covid-19, while 787 persons were exempted from the observation on Sunday. Meanwhile, 55 more persons were brought under observation in the district on Monday. The police, on Monday, registered 42 more cases in the district for the violation of lockdown regulations. District police chief U Abdul Kareem said that 60 more persons have been arrested in connection with the violation of lockdown rules. A total of 37 vehicles were confiscated from different parts of the district on Monday. TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kozhikode/116-more-persons-test-negative-in-malappuram/articleshow/75129069.cms||---
April 14, 2020||Kozhikode||Wild jumbos take over near-empty roads||KOZHIKODE: With lockdown forcing vehicles off the roads cutting through wildlife sanctuaries and protected areas, wildlife managers and ecologists said that wild elephants have started showing a behavioural change as they are using these near-empty roads while moving around. Also, jumbo herds are more frequently crossing empty roads, leading to increased habitat connectivity. It has been found that linear intrusions, like roads and railway lines, have adverse impact on natural wildlife habitats, including habitat loss and fragmentation, especially for Asian elephants that have large home ranges. Jumbos using roads after lockdown were reported along the forest stretches of NH-766 near Muthanga in Wayanad and the Athirappilly-Valparai road, among other highways. “Busy roads were a major impediment for wild elephants that move around in their habitat. They normally used to avoid roads during the day. But after lockdown, elephants are seen walking on roads and even using them for movement, which is a major change. We have mainly noticed it in roads cutting through the forests in Wayanad and Athirappilly-Valparai route, which usually see heavy traffic,” said chief conservator of forests (wildlife), northern circle, BN Anjan Kumar. Assistant wildlife warden (Muthanga range), Sunil Kumar KP said that elephant herds have become a routine sight along NH-766 stretch from Muthanga to Thakarappadi. “The lack of traffic on busy interstate highway has facilitated movements of herds to Nugu River to access water during summer,” he added. During summer, Wayanad Wildlife Sanctuary (WWS) witnesses heightened movement of elephants and other wild animals across the larger Nilgiri biosphere reserve landscape in search of water and fodder. WWS witnesses inward migration of wild animals from Bandipur Tiger Reserve, Nagarahole Tiger Reserve and Mudumalai Tiger Reserve in summer. Wildlife expert PS Easa said that wildlife is reclaiming their natural habitat during lockdown due to reduced human interference. “There are traditional elephant corridors like Periya-Pakranthalam corridor where there are road intersections. The absence of traffic along such areas is likely to help uninterrupted movement of elephants between key habitats,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kozhikode/wild-jumbos-take-over-near-empty-roads/articleshow/75129048.cms||---
April 14, 2020||Kochi||Covid sample testing kiosk begins functioning at Kottayam hospital||Kottayam: The general hospital (GH) here now has a Covid-19 sample testing unit. A kiosk for this started functioning in the GH on Monday. Using this system, samples can be collected within two minutes without using personal protective equipment (PPE).If there is an exponential surge in cases, the kiosk will be useful in collecting samples from maximum people in less time. The three feet broad, four feet long and seven feet high kiosk is air tight. It is constructed using aluminium, mica and glass. There is an exhaust fan and light.The sample collector entering the kiosk will be wearing a face mask and gloves. The person will collect the sample from the person sitting outside the kiosk by pushing the hands through the gloves fixed on the glass board of the kiosk. The person who has to give the sample will hold the tube with the viral medium in which the sample is collected. The sample collected will be left in the tube by the sample collector. The person who had given the sample will then close the tube and leave the tube on the stand placed outside the kiosk. Every time after a sample is collected at the kiosk, hand gloves fixed on the kiosk and the chair where the person sat to give the sample will be disinfected. The kiosk was constructed for Rs 25,000 using Korean technology. The fund was provided by including this under the TB eradication programme. The kiosk has been set up near the corona isolation ward in the GH. The district medical officer said the possibility of installing similar kiosks in the general hospitals in Pala, Changanassery, Kanjirappally and in Vaikom taluk hospital will be looked into.Testing facility at MCHMeanwhile, the government medical college hospital (MCH) here will soon have a sample testing facility. According to MCH superintendent Dr T K Jayakumar, the facility will be ready by next week and around 50 samples could be tested at a time here. The training for the staff has been completed, he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/covid-sample-testing-kiosk-begins-functioning-at-kottayam-hospital/articleshow/75129036.cms||---
April 14, 2020||Kolkata||Coronavirus: UK doctors from Kolkata feel helpless, unprepared||KOLKATA: There’s been an overwhelming sense of dread among the Bengali doctors in UK’s state-funded National Health Service (NHS) these days. They feel “helpless and unprepared” as the number of Covid-19 deaths continues to go up. “But we are all here, fighting till our last breath” was the common response from the Kolkata-trained frontline workers in the NHS. Most of the medics TOI spoke to are experienced professionals, either working as full-time consultants or locum (temporary) doctors, who have served the NHS for more than 25 years. Raja Biswas, a consultant physician at the Royal Glamorgan Hospital in Llantrisant, said, “Never in my medical career in the NHS have I felt so unprepared. I am not sure whether NHS can handle this anymore.” Essentials like masks and gowns are in short supply. So are ventilators. The feeling of things going out of hand was echoed by another Kolkata-born doctor, Parijat Bhattacharjee of the London Northwest Hospitals. “UK’s death toll reached just shy of 10,000 on Saturday. More than 30 NHS workers have died after contracting the new strain of coronavirus. Britons are being urged to stay home on Easter Sunday to curb the spread,” he said. The 50-something Biswas who had graduated from Calcutta National Medical College in 1990 and is now attached to this hospital near Cardiff in South Wales rued: “It’s quite frustrating, dealing with so many Covid-19 cases. Feeling swamped by this gigantic wave of disease.” The problem, the doctors said, was that health care workers are increasingly self-isolating themselves when they test a positive patient or come in contact with his or her family member has coronavirus. With nearly 10,000 doctor vacancies and 43,000 nurse vacancies in the NHS in England, the health service provider is already understaffed. “Volunteers are chipping in, but NHS is already stretched because it has too few intensive care beds and the GP surgeries are struggling to meet patient demand,” said Nabarun Sengupta, who is in the frontline working incessantly.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/uk-docs-from-city-feel-helpless-unprepared/articleshow/75118500.cms||Ajanta Chakraborty
April 14, 2020||Surat||Hospital a containment zone as 5 staff members test positive||Surat: There is a sense of alarm among the healthcare workers, who are in the frontline of the fight against coronavirus, after five staff members of a private trust-run Lokhat hospital in city’s Rampura tested positive for the virus in last one week. Three tested positive on Monday.The SMC declared Lokhat hospital as a 'cluster' after three positive cases were reported from the health staff of the hospital. "We are taking samples from the hospital staff and from people living around the hospital,'' said SMC commissioner Banchhanidhi Pani.The first to be infected was the ambulance driver who contracted the virus while transporting a positive patient from Rander to Lokhat hospital and then to the SMC-run SMIMER hospital.Sajid Ansari (40), an ambulance driver had transported one Ehsaan Khan Pathan (52), a resident of New Rander Road to Lokhat hospital on April 4. After the health of the patient deteriorate, he was shifted to SMIMER hospital where he tested positive of the virus on April 5.On April 7, Pathan, who was suffering from co-morbid conditions passed away at SMIMER hospital. Sajid and four other close contacts of Pathan were shifted to the government quarantine facility where Pathan tested positive on April 7.Vinod Gavit (27), a ward boy working at Lokhat hospital, who is the room partner of Sajid in Rampura, also tested positive on April 10. About six close contacts of Vinod were later shifted to the government quarantine facility at Samras hostel of the VNSGU.On Monday, three other healthcare workers of Lokhat hospital identified as Imran Pathan (36), a male nurse, Sabnam Maksud Ansari (29), a female nurse and Viral Dyanda (25) tested positive of the virus. Both, who were under government quarantine, were shifted to the New Civil hospital on Sunday after they showed symptoms of the virus infection.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/hospital-a-containment-zone-as-5-staff-members-test-positive/articleshow/75130830.cms||---
April 14, 2020||Dehradun||‘No disinfection tunnels to be built in state’||Dehradun: The health department has issued an advisory regarding disinfection activities stating “disinfection tunnels” will not be used in the state. Also, chlorine, alcohol, and lizol will not be sprayed on humans, according to the new order. The advisory was issued by Yugal Kishore Pant, director of National Health Mission (NHM), after it was reported that disinfection tunnels are being used at market areas, including Niranjanpur vegetable market. The NHM director said that spraying of chemicals on humans is not permissible, as per the guidelines of WHO.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/no-disinfection-tunnels-to-be-built-in-state/articleshow/75130124.cms||---
April 14, 2020||Surat||Pvt hospitals lack proper protective gear||A senior doctor at NCH’s government medical college asking anonymity said, “The healthcare workers in private hospitals are more vulnerable to fall prey to the virus as they are devoid of proper protective gear.” Talking with TOI, deputy municipal commissioner (Health and hospital), Dr Ashish Naik said, “Lokhat is the first hospital in the city where four healthcare workers have tested positive of virus. One positive patient set off the trail of infection among the hospital staff. We are urging people suffering from suspected symptoms to come directly to the SMIMER or the NCH hospital where the staff is trained to handle the situation and avoid visiting private hospitals.” TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/pvt-hospitals-lack-proper-protective-gear/articleshow/75130833.cms||---
April 14, 2020||Lucknow||Mobile booth to make Covid sample collections safer||LUCKNOW: KGMU on Monday received a mobile booth which will enable medical staff to collect swab samples of suspected Covid-19 patients without coming in direct contact with them. Already in use in different forms in some parts of the country, the booth reduces the requirement of personal protective equipment (PPE) in sampling process, thus saving kits which are in short supply. The booth was gifted to KGMU by Era’s Medical University which has developed it in collaboration with its medical devices and services manufacturer. Head, medicine department, KGMU, Prof Virendra Atam said, “Currently, PPE is used to collect samples of patients. This booth will help in collecting samples without PPE.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/mobile-booth-to-make-covid-sample-collections-safer/articleshow/75131295.cms||---
April 14, 2020||Kolkata||IIT Kharagpur campus goes for community lockdown to fight Covid-19||KOLKATA: With 4,000-odd students and research scholars as well as several hundreds of faculty, non-teaching and support staff and their families being confined on the campus, IIT Kharagpur is running a mammoth show of tricking the Coronavirus every day. The institute pre-poned the summer vacation, in keeping with the directions from the human resources development ministry, to April 1, hoping that students would completely clear out. But that did not happen. Many students stayed put on the campus as their residential areas were affected by the Covid-19. However, when the institute found that the number of students, who stayed back on the campus during the summer vacation, was high, special lockdown measures were taken to thwart the attack of Covid-19. The first challenge was to allot a separate room for each scholar. With many students having left for home on vacation, their empty rooms were accommodated for the rest staying on the campus. Every hostel is being treated as a family where one student can visit another’s room but grouping together is not allowed. Students have been strictly instructed to stay inside their respective rooms, though they can step out to buy essentials “A roster is being maintained by the security at every hostel entrance and just two students at a time are allowed to leave but they have to return within half an hour. Chalk circles have been drawn outside stores at the market and only grocery, fruits and vegetables are being sold to them,” said Ninaad Lohakare, student vice president. While entering the hostel hand sanitising with an alcohol based liquid prepared by the institute’s hostel is a must.The cleaning staff, cooks and helpers, who live outside the campus, have all been accommodated inside the hostels.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/iit-campus-goes-for-community-lockdown-to-fight-covid-19/articleshow/75118528.cms||Jhimli Mukherjee Pandey
April 14, 2020||Dehradun||Manufacturers in U’khand awaiting raw material for drugs; retailers say their stock of hydroxychloroquine has dipped||Dehradun: Drug manufacturers in Uttarakhand claim that they are waiting for raw material for producing drugs for almost 23 days now as no new stock has arrived in the state since the beginning of the lockdown. Though the drugs control department claimed that the state has sufficient stock of necessary medicines, they added that they have placed requests with the government to ensure raw material supply which would help manufacturers to go ahead with medicine production. Tajber Singh, Uttarakhand drug controller, said that the transport of drugs and raw material has been affected due to the lockdown. Lack of labour force is also an issue affecting drug production. “The pharma manufacturing companies are manufacturing drugs with the stock they already have but the new stock demanded by them hasn’t reached here after lockdown was announced. We have intimated the government about requirements and hopefully, things will be sorted soon,” he added. Uttarakhand has around 220 big and small drug manufacturing units and the state contributes approximately 16% to the overall drug production in the country. Most of the drug manufacturing units are situated in Roorkee, Udham Singh Nagar and Dehradun. Meanwhile, several retailers said that their stock of hydroxychloroquine, the medicine used in treating malaria — which is also believed to be effective against Covid-19, as per some reports — has dipped. Talking to TOI, Manish Nanda, president of wholesale chemists’ association in the state capital, said that while the government sector has got the stock of necessary medicines such as hydroxychloroquine, Tamiflu and Azithromycin, all of which are related to corona treatment, retailers are facing scarcity. Sukhdev Luthra, a drug retailer in the state capital said that he hasn’t got stock of hydroxychloroquine since weeks. “The government has banned the drug without prescription which is a respite, so people are not asking for the same. But I must say several residents have already stocked hydroxychloroquine as a precaution, just like the way they did with N-95 masks, without knowing the fact that both are not required for common people who are not affected with the virus,” he added. The drugs control department meanwhile has claimed to have a stock of around 3.5 lakh tablets of hydroxychloroquine at present in the state.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/manufacturers-in-ukhand-awaiting-raw-material-for-drugs-retailers-say-their-stock-of-hydroxychloroquine-has-dipped/articleshow/75129059.cms||Ishita Mishra
April 14, 2020||Surat||Nine more test positive on Monday||Surat: Nine more persons tested positive for Covid-19 including three healthcare staff of the Lokhat hospital, taking the total tally of the positive cases at 38 on Monday. About 13 patients were admitted in the New Civil Hospital (NCH) isolation on Monday with the symptoms similar to that caused by coronavirus infection. The Surat civic body on Monday issued a notification asking all private hospitals, clinics, grocery stores, to provide hand sanitizers to visiting customers and ensure that all the surfaces are disinfected regularly or they will invite penalty of Rs 25,000Besides the healthcare workers of the private hospital, 19-year-old Rakesh Javre, a resident of SUDA Awas in Vesu, tested positive of the virus. Rakesh is the son of Lata Javre, a housemaid, who tested positive of the virus on Sunday. Five samples taken during the community sampling drive turned out to be positive Monday late evening. TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/nine-more-test-positive-on-monday/articleshow/75130838.cms||---
April 14, 2020||Nashik||Police book 33 for not wearing masks||Nashik: Police booked 33 people in two days across the city for not wearing face-masks in public places and endangering their own lives as well as of other people. Police said the action was taken on April 11-12, following orders of police commissioner making face-masks compulsory to fight the coronavirus contagion. “The 33 people were booked for not wearing masks under section 188 (Disobedience to order duly promulgated by public servant) as they violated the orders issued by the commissioner of police to contain the spread of Covid 19 virus,” said senior police officers. In his April 8 order, the CP state that citizens must wear face-masks when they venture out of home, to prevent the spread of Covid 19, which is known to be spreading through droplets. Senior police officers said the spread of the disease was more likely in densely-populated areas. “While people have been asked to stay indoors and venture out just once a week or even fewer times, they are stepping out and that too without following the safety rules.” The officers said citizens should understand that an act of carelessness by one person can lead to the spread of the disease in their family members, neighbours and many parts of the city. “This is the reason that medical and health experts have prescribed the use of masks and gloves. The use of hand sanitisers is necessary before touching anything and even after touching anything in public place,” said a police officer. The officer said that they have asked petrol station dealers, shopkeepers and vegetable vendors to avoid selling goods to people who are not taking safety and precautionary measures, like wearing face-masks.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/police-book-33-for-not-wearing-masks/articleshow/75130837.cms||---
April 14, 2020||Surat||Three more in Bharuch test positive, tally touches eleven||Surat: Bharuch district recorded three more Covid-19 positive cases from Amod taluka’s Vatarsha village, taking the total number of positive cases in the district to 11 on Monday.Health officials in the Bharuch administration said that three patients in the age groups of 25-30 years from the Vatarsha village Amod taluka tested positive on Monday.The trio had visited Bhavnagar to attend the jamat (religious congregation) along with 10 other members from Vatarsha village on March 17. They returned to Bharuch on March 30 and after health officials came to know about their travel, had put them all under quarantine in the government facility in Bharuch.Sources said that 10 members of the jamat tested negative of the virus, while these three youngsters tested positive after the completion of their quarantine period on Monday.Nilesh Patel, Epidemic Medical Officer (EMO), Bharuch told TOI, “The patients had attended jamat in Bhavnagar and had come in contact with a positive patient there. All three are asymptomatic and have been shifted to the isolation ward of the civil hospital in Bharuch.”Meanwhile, the Bharuch administration has issued a notification putting Vatarsha village under cluster containment on Monday evening. The borders of about half a dozen villages falling under the seven kilometre radius of the village have been sealed and health teams have been deployed in the village for mass community sampling.Earlier, eight Covid-19 positive cases have been reported from Amod, Jambusar and Bharuch talukas respectively in the district. This includes five positive cases from Ikhar village in Amod taluka, two positive cases from Devla madrassa in Jambusar and one positive case from Parkhet village in Bharuch taluka.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/three-more-in-bharuch-test-positive-tally-touches-eleven/articleshow/75130843.cms||---
April 14, 2020||Lucknow||UP to launch pooled testing for coronavirus today||LUCKNOW: After due clearance from the Indian Council of Medical Research, the Uttar Pradesh government will undertake pooled testing of coronavirus samples from Tuesday. While the state is the first in the country to be adopting the technique, the method is being successfully used in Israel and Germany. The technique will be launched from Agra, which accounts for the maximum burden of cases in UP as of now. Data shows that 23% (or 139) of the 603 cases reported in UP are from Agra. “In pooled testing, we will combine several samples and test them for presence of coronavirus in a group. If the outcome is negative, all persons whose sample has been taken will be considered free from the infection. But if the sample tests positive, all persons will be tested again. The method will speed up testing which is crucial to containment of coronavirus pandemic,” said principal secretary health and family welfare. State surveillance officer Vikasendu Agarwal said: “We will be covering 100 people to create 20 super samples comprising swabs from five persons in a batch. They will collected and brought in a special triple-layer packing to KGMU for testing.” On why Agra was chosen for pooled testing, Agarwal said: “Containment is crucial in Agra which is home to 22-odd hotspots. Also, the set-up in Agra is extremely robust as it is the place which provided the template for UP.” Data gathered from Agra will be used to validate the technique for Uttar Pradesh. The experience will be used to scale up testing in other hotspots including Meerut, Saharanpur and Gautam Buddha Nagar. Researchers across the country are watching UP’s bold and clever move. “If pooled testing in UP works well, states with higher burden will be able to improvise their strategies for infection containment,” said Vishwajeet Kumar, epidemiologist and community medicine researcher. Researchers in Israel have already proved that the method was useful for super samples as large as 64 swabs.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/up-to-launch-pooled-testing-for-corona-today/articleshow/75131304.cms||Shailvee Sharda
April 14, 2020||Nagpur||Illegally felled trees seized on farm near Chimur||Nagpur: In one of the biggest hauls in Chandrapur district, Chimur range forest officials on Monday allegedly seized thousands of illicitly felled trees, with volume estimated to be 30-35 cubic metre. At a market rate of Rs50,000 per cubic metre, the cost of the felled trees must be over Rs15 lakh. A video has gone viral on social media showing huge timber logs abandoned in a field on Bhisi-Jamgaon Road, 75km from Nagpur. Apart from small trees, the timber also includes good quality teak, which is normally found in high quality forest areas. “Officials need to probe whether felling has been done in forest areas under the garb of tree felling on private land. The teak mafia must have taken advantage of the lockdown and felled trees illegally in the forest,” said sources. However, Chimur RFO Bhavik Chiwande said, “The issue has been blown out of proportion. The entire timber is around 10 cubic metre and its cost may be around Rs5 lakh. ” “The trees have been felled illegally. No farmer or contractor has staked claim on the material. We’ve registered an offence against unknown culprits. All the timber will be shifted to the forest depot at Khadsangi and auctioned,” the RFO added. Chandrapur chief conservator of forests (CCF) SV Ramarao said, “It is a case of tree felling on private lands without seeking permission under The Maharashtra Felling of Trees Regulation Act 1964. The RFO concerned is taking necessary action.” However, forest officials are trying to under-report the timber. “Heaps of trees at the site looked nothing less than a timber depot. Looking at the material, it is somewhere between 30-35 cubic metres,” said senior officials of the Forest Development Corporation of Maharashtra (FDCM). FDCM officials had received an anonymous call on April 12 night informing RFO Ramesh Balaya that at least 12 tractor loads of huge timber logs have been dumped on an agriculture field. The FDCM staff reached the spot but found no one, and informed Chimur range officials. Earlier, there have been cases of contractors resorting to tree felling on forest areas under the garb of felling on private lands. RFO Chiwande ruled out felling in forest areas. He said that due to lockdown farmers in distress must have sold the timber on their land to contractors as they pay on the spot by valuing the trees. The timber must have been procured from several farmers and dumped in the field with an intention to transport it from one place.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/illegally-felled-trees-seized-on-farm-near-chimur/articleshow/75130848.cms||Vijay Pinjarkar
April 14, 2020||Bhubaneswar||We can do with much less in life, says Aruna||Bhubaneswar: Renowned danseuse Aruna Mohanty’s lockdown itinerary has become a reflection of her vibrant calender. Currently working from home in Surya Nagar, the city’s first containment zone, Aruna makes sure that her students continue with their dance practise. While she has started classes over Skype for her foreign students, her Indian students get to learn from her videos circulated through WhatsApp. She uses the same mode to inquire about their well-being. Aruna is particularly concerned about her students at IIT, Bhubaneswar, where she is a guest faculty. “Through the lessons that I impart over the internet, I force them to think. Dance being a performing art, the student should be observant of his surroundings and present it through dance. The involvement ensures your contribution as an artist,” says Aruna. She is using the lockdown period to become more tech-savvy or as she puts it, “It’s the time to have the flexibility of mind to redesign your lifestyle.” She is also using her spare time to cook and has experimented with momos and dahi-vadas. “We are depending a great deal on our kitchen garden now that the markets are shut. We find the produce to be very precious,” she says. “I am even cleaning dishes though our domestic helps stay on the premises of our house. I have become more appreciative of their work now.” At present, there are 12 people on the premises of her house, including her family and two students. One member goes out once a week to get the perishable food items. They gets the milk from door-to-door supply by Omfed. Besides her work and household chores, she is spending quality time with her husband and daughter. Playing monopoly, ludo and carrom are their favourite pass times. She is also teaching her daughter embroidery and cooking. “The lockdown is a humbling experience that has taught us that we can do with much less in life. It is the best thing to do to prevent the pandemic,” says Aruna. Aruna had kept her daughter in home isolation as per government norms when she had returned from London. “Every day, the government officials were calling us to know if she was showing any symptoms. Thankfully, she has come out unscathed. The rule is not meant to ostracise us but to protect us,” says the dancer, who had wanted to reach out to the Covid-19-affected family in her locality. Despite being confined to the containment zone, Aruna wants to help the state machinery in whatever way she can in these trying times. But it’s the frequent calls from her friends and well-wishers that has kept her going. “It is reassuring to be surrounded by people who love you,” she smiles.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhubaneswar/we-can-do-with-much-less-in-life-says-aruna/articleshow/75123827.cms||Arunika Mohapatra
April 14, 2020||Nashik||Many flout lockdown rules, visit markets to kill boredom||Nashik: Many residents on Monday were seen flouting the lockdown regulations, as many took out their vehicles for non-essential activities and joyrides. Although barricades have been put-up at major junctions, which are manned by home guards, the lanes and bylanes were used by some over-enthusiastic residents. For few, a trip to the market was a recreation activity for their kids. “My child was bored to death after being locked up in the house for so long. Earlier, we would play in the basement and terrace. But after the police warned us, we stayed inside the house. So I got him outside for some time,” said Anil Sonawane, father of a six-year-old. Moreover, many bikers were seen speeding their bikes on half-empty roads. “We wonder how these people are allowed to drive their vehicles at the time when the lockdown is in force and we have found three Covid positive patients in city,” said Sayali Kamble, another citizen. Most people were seen visiting grocery stores and vegetable vendors to purchase their weekly quota of goods. “I am buying goods only after a week. Today, I have stepped out of the house with my wife and taking whatever is required by my family of seven at home for the next seven days,” said Harish Patil, a businessman and resident of the Panchavati area. But that is not the case with others, who are stepping out almost on a daily basis for non-essential things. “People are buying non-essential things almost every day. There are some serious buyers, who buy goods that are likely to help them for the next week or even the fortnight period. But we have people coming out only to by chocolates, ice creams and even biscuits alone,” said Rajesh Patel, a shop-keeper on Gangapur Road. The situation is no different in Cidco and adjoining areas of Trimurti Chowk. In the morning hours, the NMC has allowed shops to stay open for people to buy goods. People were seen following the social distancing rules. At vegetable shops and marts, people were seen handling the vegetables themselves “We are told to wear a mask and that is what we are doing. As far as getting infected by touching is concerned, we aren’t touching anything except the basket,” said resident Sunita Pathak. Manoj Bhamre, who runs a clinic at Nashik Road said people should understand their responsibilities. “Wearing a mask is preventing things from going into nose, mouth. But at the same time, it is important that people do not touch anything eg vegetables. Besides, children are most vulnerable as they keep touching things because they don’t know what is good and bad,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/many-flout-lockdown-rules-visit-markets-to-kill-boredom/articleshow/75130844.cms||Abhilash Botekar
April 14, 2020||Kolkata||Japan arranges charter flight to repatriate citizens stuck in Eastern India||KOLKATA: The Japanese consulate in Kolkata has organised a charter flight from the city to Bengaluru where Japanese nationals will board a Japan Airlines aircraft to return home to Tokyo. The charter flight will take off on Tuesday. According to sources, Japanese living and working in Haldia and other cities and towns in eastern India will be repatriated in the flight. With the Japanese contingent in the region not big enough to operate a long haul aircraft to make the 7 hours and 30 minutes trip, the consulate decided to fly them in a charter to Bengaluru where they will be transferred to a larger aircraft for the flight to Tokyo along with other Japanese citizens stranded in south India since the lockdown. With Japan appearing to have crossed the peak in the Covid-19 crisis cycle and India poised to enter the critical phase, Japanese citizens are desperate to return to the country. This will be the fourth repatriation flight from Kolkata airport since passenger flight operations were suspended across India. Armenia was the first to send an aircraft for its students stuck in the city. This was followed by a flight for EU citizens organised by the German consulate. Last week, Americans were flown out of the city. Five days after the Japanese depart, British citizens and long-term UK visa holders will board a British Airways flight. The UK has lined up 12 repatriation flights from India. Though some British citizens were among the 115 EU passengers that left for Frankfurt on April 5, most British citizens are holed up in the city.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/japan-arranges-charter-flight-to-repatriate-citizens-stuck-in-e-india/articleshow/75118551.cms||---
April 14, 2020||Dehradun||Stranded Nepalese workers mark their New Year in Pithoragarh camps||Pithoragarh: More than 1,000 migrant workers from Nepal observed the Nepalese New Year in the camps arranged for them in Pithoragarh on Monday. "Even though today (April 13) is our traditional New Year, we are not happy as we could be with our families. Our country is just some distance away from here but we can’t go there as the borders are sealed. This is making our hearts ache," said Gopal Singh Bora, a Nepalese labourer. These workers had come to Pithoragarh district after going out of work due to the nationwide lockdown in India but could not go back to their homes in Nepal as the Nepalese government has sealed the borders. Notably, Pithoragarh district has five entry points to Nepal which are at Dharchula, Jauljibi, Baluakote, Dauda, and Jhulaghat. “Today is Vispat Sankranti and our family members must be waiting for us. Though we are celebrating the festival with our fellow workers, but we all are missing our families,” said Govind Singh, another worker from Nepal. Meanwhile, Pithoragarh’s Thal Mela has been cancelled due to the ongoing lockdown. It usually starts on Vaisakhi and continues for 15 days. “The festival is organised on the banks of Ramganga. People throng this craft mela to purchase handicraft items but this year, the mela could not be organised due to the outbreak of coronavirus,” said Arjun Rawat, secretary of Thal Mela Samiti.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/stranded-nepalese-workers-mark-their-new-year-in-pithoragarh-camps/articleshow/75130150.cms||Prem Punetha
April 14, 2020||Visakhapatnam||Closed-door celebrations for regional new years||VISAKHAPATNAM: All communities in Port City will be celebrating regional new year’s day in a different manner this year. In the midst of the lockdown, the festival known as Baisakhi in Punjab, Poila Boisakh in West Bengal, Rongali Bihu in Assam, Maha Bishuba Sankranti in Odisha, Vishu in Kerala and Puthandu in Tamil Nadu, will be observed indoors. Aruna Das from Utkal Sanskrutika Samaj said, “Under the present circumstances, all Odia families celebrated on Monday at home by offering ‘pana’ to the deities and cooking traditional anna and dalma (lentil with vegetables).” The Sikh community observed their harvest festival indoors as well. “Regular Baisakhi prayers were held at Gurudwara Sadh Sangat, Seethamadhara, by Hazuri Granthi (head priest). An online keertan group has been created and ‘Shabad Gurbani’ is being recited daily,” said SDS Anand, president of Gurudwara Sadh Sangat. Ishita Ray, a freelance writer, said, “This year, we are celebrating things that matter the most. I am making a special spread of Bengali vegetarian dishes with sweet dry fruits pulao, channa daal with coconut, ridge gourd ‘posto’, aloo dum and semiya payesh (kheer).” The Malayali and Tamil communities are observing Vishu and Puthandu at homes with traditional dishes such as raw mango ‘pachhadi’, rituals, setting up ‘vishukani’ (the arrangement of auspicious items) and decorating homes with ‘kolam’ (rangoli).||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/visakhapatnam/closed-door-celebrations-for-regional-new-years/articleshow/75130156.cms||Sulogna Mehta
April 14, 2020||Kolkata||West Bengal: Transgender people lend helping hand to poor||KOLKATA: Inspired by chief minister Mamata Banerjee, Sankari, a transgender, has spent her entire life-savings for the poor, given the present trying times when everything seems to have come to a grinding halt. Following the footsteps of Sankari, Ratna Chaudhary, another transgender has also contributed Rs one lakh for the sustenance of 800 families. A school drop-out after Class-VIII, Sankari had joined the transgender community at Garia, Mahamayapur. Apart from conducting shows and staging dance for new-borns, she also runs a small business. After the lockdown, she saw Mamata Banerjee leading from the front. “I was so inspired by her selfless act that I decided to give out whatever I had to the distressed people,” said Sankari. Ratna managed to pump in even bigger fund and helped out as many as 800 families in Baruipur area. “I heard about Sankari’s work and found it extremely inspiring,” she said. She managed to piece together whatever valuable she had and raised a fund of Rs1.5 lakh. She distributed rice, dal, spices and atta, each weighing 5kg, to the needy in the Baruipur slums. “I am now desperately asking for money for the next round of supply as the lockdown now got extended till April end. They cannot earn anything during this period. I am also finding ways how they access the government’s social welfare initiatives.,” said Ratna.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/trans-people-lend-helping-hand-to-poor/articleshow/75118574.cms||Monotosh Chakraborty
April 14, 2020||Nashik||7 private hospitals provide 70 isolation beds||Nashik: A total of 70 isolation beds have been provided by seven city-based major hospitals for treating Covid-19 patients if the number of positive cases increase further. As of now, four suspects — family members of Covid-19 positive patients — have been moved to one of the private hospitals located along the National Highway-3. Civic chief Radhakrishna Game had recently held a meeting with the doctors of these seven hospitals and urged them to co-operate in case the number of positive cases go up. It was also decided that 70 beds would be made available for admitting Covid-19 suspects and getting their throat swab samples tested. A Nashik Municipal Corporation (NMC) official said they will hold meetings with other private hospitals in the city in order to reserve more beds. "There are many hospitals in the city with around 25-50 beds. We are planning to reserve some beds at these hospitals to isolate the suspects. We are expecting to reserve around 500 beds in private hospitals of the city," he said. The NMC has already made arrangements for isolation wards and institutional quarantine at three locations. NMC’s Dr. Zakir Hussain Hospital is the Covid-19 hospital in the city with 70 beds. It has set up an isolation ward with 28 beds in Tapovan area of the city, while a 100-bed facility has been set up at the quarters of the fire brigade department in Nashik Road area.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/7-private-hospitals-provide-70-isolation-beds/articleshow/75130870.cms||Tushar Pawar
April 14, 2020||Bengaluru||State struggles to end woes of income-starved migrants||Bengaluru: With the 21-day lockdown likely to continue — amid talks of a partial relaxation — the state government is struggling to identify avenues to ensure intrastate migrant labourers are able to fend for themselves. While it is yet to find employment opportunities for those stranded in city limits, it has decided to increase man days under Mahatma Gandhi National Rural Employment Guarantee (MNREGA) scheme for labourers stuck in rural Karnataka. Rough estimates put the number of migrant labourers at 3-4 lakh in major urban pockets like Bengaluru, Mangaluru, Mysuru and Hubballi-Dharwad. Rural development and panchayat raj (RDPR) principal secretary LK Atheeq said the government has decided to increase man days to benefit those have returned from urban centres and have lost their incomes. “Instructions have been given to all district officers to increase the number of man-days for generating more employment and start work,” said the senior bureaucrat, citing that most parts of rural Karnataka remain untouched by the pandemic. In a normal year, an average of 1.6 crore man-days are generated in the months of April and May. This number is likely to double if the labourers continue to stay in the villages for the next two months. “In Mysuru, Dakshina Kannada and the coast, labour charges are as high as Rs 550 to Rs 650 per day,” said the RPDR official. “However, in the 13 districts of North Karnataka, the figure hovers between Rs 250 and Rs 300.” But the bigger challenge is to identify work where social-distancing norms will be followed. According to department officials, stringent police norms are proving a hurdle for the government to begin MNREGA work. “While instructions have been given, the lockdown has seen a lot of police intervention and has slowed down the pace of work,” said an official. According to the social-distancing protocol, at least six-ft distance has to be maintained, which means no community work can be taken up and only individual activities like digging trenches/bunds and farm ponds can be executed by a group of five — a farmer and four job-card holders. On the other hand, migrant labourers stranded in cities are surviving purely on handouts given by the government and are forced to remain indoors. While some in the government feel these labourers should be allowed to return home in order to ease the burden of feeding them, chairman of the expert panel on Covid-19, Dr Devi Shetty, opined it’s not feasible. “We don’t want the virus to spread to rural Karnataka. While I admit the migrant labourers’ problem is quite complex, the government has to chalk out a solution,” he said. Dr Shetty’s colleague on the panel, Dr CN Manjunath, said one of the reasons why the panel recommended working on 50 per cent strength when the lockdown is partially lifted is to ensure there is enough employment for all. “With 50 per cent of the migrants stuck in cities, we can ensure each one is employed by giving them jobs on alternate days. This will ensure social distancing and employment,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/state-struggles-to-end-woes-of-income-starved-migrants/articleshow/75130603.cms||Sandeep Moudgal
April 14, 2020||Hubballi||Without govt’s order, some MSIL liquor shops start preparations to open||Haveri: Following rumours that the state government is contemplating to allow liquor shops run by the Mysuru Sales International Ltd (MSIL) to open from April 15 or 16, some retail outlets in Haveri district have swung into action. They have started putting barricades and marking circles to maintain social distancing in front of their shops. The staff at MSIL outlets in Rattihalli taluk headquarter and Byadagi town have made necessary arrangements for consumers to stand in a queue in front of the outlets. They have installed wooden barricades in front of MSIL outlets and marked circles for maintaining social distancing. However, the pictures of arrangements in front of MSIL shops have gone viral on social media and created a buzz. Netizens who are waiting for liquor shops to open have overwhelmingly reacted to these pictures. Some stated that the government’s decision has come as a big relief. Interestingly, the state government has not decided on the excise department’s proposal to allow the sale of liquor during the remainder of the lockdown period. The decision is likely to be taken on Tuesday by chief minister BS Yediyurappa. When TOI contacted Santosh Kumar NR, district licence officer, MSIL, he admitted that so far there has been no instruction from the government with respect to opening the liquor shops. “However, if the order comes, we need to be prepared to control the crowd. So, some outlets have begun preparations to ensure that sale of liquor takes place systematically by adhering to the lockdown norms,” he said. Mahadevibai, deputy commissioner, department of excise, Haveri, said there is no official order in this regard yet. “Allowing of MSIL and CL-2 outlets is just a rumour. If the government issues order I will react,” she said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hubballi/without-govts-order-some-msil-liquor-shops-start-preparations-to-open/articleshow/75129653.cms||Basavaraj Maralihalli
April 14, 2020||Hyderabad||Heckled, US citizen fears leaving house||HYDERABAD: It is not just the north-eastern community that is facing discrimination during the lockdown but foreign nationals too have been at the receiving end of such incidents. A United States citizen has not left her home since the lockdown began after allegedly being heckled at a supermarket outlet. Julie Price, who is in the city on business, arrived on January 30 this year. When the lockdown began, she decided to hit the store to buy some essentials. “I was not told why I could not enter the store. The security told me that no foreigners were allowed in. I was turned away at the door,” said Price, who was shocked at the treatment she was meted out considering that she had been shopping at the same store three times a week for six weeks and also during her previous trips. The resident of Nashville, Tennessee, US, has rented a two-bedroom apartment in Vanasthalipuram and the supermarket is about three blocks away from home. Not just the security, other people, waiting in the line to enter the store, also refused to let her go in. “On that day (first day of lockdown) someone behind me took my photo and said he was calling the police to come and get me because I was not supposed to be there. The people in the line started to frighten me so I walked back home, looking behind me constantly thinking they would come after me,” said Price. She said the incident “frightened me so much I have not left my apartment in 20 days.” Under a misapprehension that there was ‘some rule’ against foreigners entering stores in the country, Price said, “This is a mistreatment of foreigners in India. We are foreigners but also human and need to eat.” She now depends on her team members to bring her groceries every few days. The American, however, says the bad behaviour she encountered could be because of the initial panic. “I have been coming here for the last five years - each trip for 5-6 months – and have never been treated so rudely before. I know these problems are due to the coronavirus and ‘panic’ and I know this is not typical behaviour of people here. I have been warmly welcomed at all other times,” she said. Price owns a graphic design business and her team, which includes co-owners, live in the country.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/heckled-us-citizen-fears-leaving-house/articleshow/75130715.cms||Uttara Varma
April 14, 2020||Hyderabad||Schools conducting exams despite Telangana government's order to promote all||HYDERABAD: Despite the state declaring promotion of students from classes 1 to 9 without examination, few schools in the city are allegedly going ahead with examinations. However, these exams are said to be held online. Teachers said that managements are asking them to send question papers via WhatsApp or email and get scanned answer sheets from students. “Exams are scheduled to begin from April 15. Many schools, especially those located in the city, have decided to go ahead with conducting exams,” said Telangana Private Teachers Forum president, Shabbir Ali. Teachers said that conducting online exams has become a competition among schools. “School managements are getting inspired by other schools and are conducting these exams. This has also become an excuse for them to show parents that they did not stop educating students during the lockdown,” said B Shivraj, a teacher working in a corporate school in the city. Shivraj said that managements are asking them to be in touch with those parents who are yet to clear fee dues during the lockdown. “We are asked to call these parents regularly under some pretext and keep reminding them about dues. Exams are also being used for the same purpose,” he added. Teachers said that while few schools have already been conducting examinations since the first week of April, others are planning to complete them by April 22. Meanwhile, parents said it did not make any sense to ask students to take exams at this point. “Children know that state has announced to promote all students. So, even when teachers are informing them about exams, they are not taking it seriously. It is not fair to expect them to concentrate on studies during a pandemic,” said Swetha D, parent of a class 5 student. Officials from the school education department said that they did not receive any complaints on the issue. “If any school is conducting exams, action will be initiated,” said B Venkata Narasamma, district education officer, Hyderabad.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/schools-conducting-exams-despite-govt-order-to-promote-all/articleshow/75130682.cms||---
April 14, 2020||Hyderabad||Elderly dhobi couple donates savings to help those in need||HYDERABAD: An elderly dhobi (washerman) couple have donated their hard-earned savings to the poor in Korutla of Jagtial district to make ends meet during the lockdown. “How can we keep the money for our own future when the poor are suffering because of lockdown?” says 70-year-old Gollapalli Buchavva, who went from house to house and distributed their savings of Rs 25,000 among 18 poor families. She said she was moved by the plight of the families and hence had decided to help them. While Buchavva washes clothes, her 80-year-old husand Gollapalli Gangaram irons them. The aged couple saw no problem in handing over the savings of the last four years. It was only in the last few months that they have stopped doing these chores. Buchavva is also happy that one of her sons who lives in Hyderabad had donated Rs 1 lakh to the poor. The couple have two sons. “My mother washes clothes in five houses. My parents themselves are poor but they have shown a heart for the marginalised people,” said 40-year-old son Anjaiah. “When they told me that they want to donate the money, I told them it was a good thought and they should go ahead. They have also got food cooked for 100 people and distributed it,” Anjaiah told TOI on Monday. There are others like Buchavva and her husband who have shown inclination to help the poor with whatever little they have. Mohammed Sanauddin, also of Korutla, said local youth pooled in money and distributed 25 tonnes of rice among migrant workers. “We also got soaps, sanitisers and detergents and distributed them. Some doctors and traders also saw what we were doing and contributed,” Sanauddin, who takes care of the aged in an old-age home, said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/elderly-dhobi-couple-donates-savings-to-help-those-in-need/articleshow/75130732.cms||Ch Sushil Rao
April 14, 2020||Hyderabad||Parents file online petition, seek 50% deduction in school fee||HYDERABAD: With the lockdown expected to have an impact on the economy and earning capacities, several parents have filed an online petition asking the state government to direct private schools to roll back the fees by 50% for the 2020-21 academic year. The petition says many parents have lost their income and are not sure what their situation will be in the next couple of months. The petition also said that parents are not in a position to pay fees and added the state should come to their rescue. “As middle-class salaried employees, we paid our tax on time without any exceptions. Now this is the time for the government to support us and ensure that education of our children is secured,” said Malik Faisal, waaaho started the petition. Another parent Prasad Reddy said: “Schools have become completely commercial. At least now, they should stop looting parents.” Parents said that schools should be asked to reduce the fee by 25% to 50% for the coming academic year and not charge an admission fee for new admissions. They said that there should also not be any hike in the transport fee. In the petition addressed to the chief minister and the education minister of the state, parents said that at least for the next three years, schools should not collect any extra money in the name of activities like sport, annual day, picnics among others.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/parents-file-online-petition-seek-50-deduction-in-school-fee/articleshow/75130691.cms||---
April 14, 2020||Lucknow||Cyberfraud: Fake website seeks funds for Ram temple||AYODHYA: Cybercriminals struck at the Ram Janmabhoomi Trust less than two months after it was constituted by the Centre, by developing a fake Twitter handle and website in the name of ‘Ram Mandir Ayodhya’ to siphon off donations for constructing of a grand Ram temple through a designated SBI bank account mentioned in the web page. An FIR was lodged against the website developer at the Ram Janmabhoomi police station on Monday under stringent sections of the IT Act and also charges of fraud, cheating by impersonation and identity theft. The website domain named — rammandirayodhya.in and registered under the name of Avinash Bahukhandi mentioned its registered address as RZ 146 A Uttam Vihar, Uttam Nagar, New Delhi. With a secured URL http://www.godaddy.com, the website sought donations through Google pay app. To give credence to its religious pursuit, the web home page is resplendent with pictures of carved marble stones of VHP’s Ram Janambhoomi Nirman Karyashala and site developer’s email is mentioned as 26.avinash@gmail.com along with a mobile number. Secretary of Ram Mandir Trust, Champat Rai, filed a complaint with Ayodhya police against the website, charging the operator with collecting donations for construction of a Ram temple in Ayodhya. Speaking to TOI, Rai said, Trust members have sought immediate action against the culprits. “The government must block the fake website, Twitter account and freeze the bank account in the name of Ram Mandir Trust. And the government must swiftly track funds collected in the name of Ram Mandir,” he said. Ayodhya police said, the cyber criminals will be nabbed soon and the funds will be frozen.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/cyberfraud-fake-website-seeks-funds-for-ram-temple/articleshow/75131318.cms||Arshad Afzaal Khan
April 14, 2020||Hubballi||Belagavi ICMR demands BSL-3 lab to develop anti-covid drug||Belagavi: The National Institute of Traditional Medicine (NITM), a research facility of the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) is demanding an upgraded research infrastructure to develop anti-covid drug using traditional wisdom. Speaking to TOI, NITM-ICMT director Debprasad Chattopadhyay said coronavirus has highlighted gaps in the field of research especially in India. “Research & development of antiviral drugs in India is absolutely nil. While several countries are focusing on developing drugs to battle viruses, no premier virology institutes in India are conducting studies on this arena.” “India’ traditional wisdom in the horizon of medicines is noteworthy, however, unless these are scientifically proved or validated, they have no value. For this, our traditional knowledge should be subjected to scientific tests for which a great deal of investment is needed. The existing research facilities needs to be upgraded soon,” Chattopadhyay added. “There is a large scope for developing anti-covid 19 here at NITM, but the government should help establish Biosafety Level -3 (BSL-3) facility. Conducting experiments with the actual coronavirus has to be done in labs certified as BSL-3. It comes with advanced features for the safety of researchers,” he said. Chattopadhyay, who has worked in the field of virology for nearly two decades, said NITM also needs skilled human resource to work in the BSL-3 facility which he hopes the government will provide. “We need ethnobotanist, microbiologist, clinician, bioinformatics or computer simulators, pharmacologists and others. These are the immediate requirements to the lab, he added. “Investing in research now will certainly come in handy in future,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hubballi/belagavi-icmr-demands-bsl-3-lab-to-develop-anti-covid-drug/articleshow/75130194.cms||Shreyas HS
April 14, 2020||Visakhapatnam||North Andhra Pradesh hopes to be free of Covid-19 soon as cases dip||VISAKHAPATNAM: While no Covid-19 cases have been reported in Srikakulam and Vizianagaram so far, 20 cases have been reported in Visakhapatnam. The region did not register a single new positive case in the last one week. District authorities, although refusing to let down their guards, are seeing this as a positive sign. The north Andhra region, comprising Srikakulam, Vizianagaram and Visakhapatnam districts, has a population of around 95 lakh. Visakhapatnam district alone has a population of 47 lakh. While 20 positive cases were reported from the districts, so far there has been no deaths due to Covid-19. Besides, four of the 20 positive patients have been discharged from the hospitals. So, as on Monday, the number of positive cases came down to 16. Visakhapatnam collector V Vinay Chand said the situation in Visakhapatnam is improving. “There have been no fresh cases in the district in the last one week till Monday. We hope the trend will continue and the existing cases would recover soon,” he told TOI. Srikakulam SP RN Ammi Reddy echoed the collector’s thoughts. “If neighbouring Visakhapatnam recovers, we hope the region becomes the first in the state to be free of the disease,” he said. Ammi Reddy added that all stakeholders, including medical, health and police apart from the general public have played a supportive role in preventing the spread of the disease. Meanwhile, G Suneel Kumar, senior divisional commercial manager of Waltair division of East Coast Railways, said the division has kept 60 coaches ready to be used as isolation facilities in case of an emergency.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/visakhapatnam/north-ap-hopes-to-be-free-of-covid-19-soon-as-cases-dip/articleshow/75130170.cms||V Kamalakara Rao
April 14, 2020||Bengaluru||As lockdown extension looms large, food insecurity haunts Bengaluru’s poor||BENGALURU: With the lockdown most likely to be extended till month-end, a growing food insecurity haunts Bengaluru’s underprivileged, thousands of whom are already going to bed hungry despite government efforts. From domestic helps to construction workers, carpenters, slum-dwellers and other daily wagers in the city, all have been struggling to make ends meet. TimesViewWhile NGOs and individuals chipping in to help the needy are welcome, there is no way they can compensate for the infrastructure and organisational strength the government can bring. And while some measure of confusion is to be expected, given the suddenness of the Covid-19 pandemic, the government should have got its act together by now. But, better late than never. It should come up with a distribution system that can function for a significant length of time and achieve the maximum geographical coverage required to feed the hungry in troubled times.Issac Amruthraj, convenor, Karnataka Slum Janara Sanghatane, which works with about 35 slums spread across different areas — Gandhinagar, Shantinagar, Mahadevapura, Pulakeshinagar, KR Puram — says severe shortage of food has forced them to even request private firms like Swiggy and Zomato and NGOs, who are helping them in limited capacity. “The demand and supply don’t add up. There are hundreds of people who are not getting cooked food or material which the government had promised. We are seeing so-called local leaders taking responsibility of supplying dry ration kits. They are giving the same under their name, which is okay, but this means it’s not reaching the people the government envisaged it must reach,” he said, adding that there are at least 50,000 people living in these slums, almost all of whom are daily wagers. Both the labour department and the BBMP, which are handling cooked food and dry ration kit deliveries, respectively, admit to shortage. Labour secretary P Manivannan said: “When we started distributing food about nine days ago, the demand in Bengaluru was about 10,000 food packets. It has now crossed a lakh. While we are doing everything we can, we do understand that there is a shortfall. Also, as of now, we are considering all demands made through the helpline, we are streamlining this with a software-driven process.” A senior BBMP official said the Palike’s focus is on migrant workers and that other people will be taken care of once the dry ration kits are distributed to these 76,000-odd people. However, there is a shortage of that too. C Chandramma, convenor, Savitribai Phule Mahila Sanghatane, said: “When the government stopped free food at Indira Canteen, it said all poor would be taken care of. But most people we work with, including nomads, domestic helps and other daily wagers, are going without food. Even milk isn’t reaching everybody,” she said. About 17 different organisations representing the poor, in a joint statement said: “The lockdown has destroyed the lives of people who have no food to eat, no money and will be further engulfed in the vicious cycle of loan. The measures announced by the state and central governments to address the grave damage caused to people’s lives and livelihood are inadequate to overcome the impact of the lockdown. The government is unable to deliver on food security and people are forced to stand in long queues for one packet of food.” Chaluve Gowda, director, Hombale Constructions, had told TOI last week of the over 1,000 migrants housed in different camps run by his firm, only 300 got government food. Manivannan said the government had made it clear that contractors not providing food and shelter will be penalised. “Right now we are dealing with so many people who don’t have listed contractors, we expect contractors to take care of their labour force, or face action.” On Monday, Gowda told TOI that most of the workers in his camps are now getting groceries. “...As instructed by the high court, district magistrate and labour officer visited our sites and now, BBMP is giving groceries to most of the sites,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/as-lockdown-extension-looms-large-food-insecurity-haunts-citys-poor/articleshow/75130583.cms||Chethan Kumar
April 14, 2020||Mysuru||Farmers ready for sowing crops, but seeds are hard to get||Mysuru: Following good pre-monsoon rain in all the taluks of the district, most agriculture activities including sowing for kharif crops have picked up. Most farmers are getting their land readied for sowing. However, there have been several complaints over scarcity of seeds in many parts of the district including in Hullahalli region and surrounding villages in Nanjangud taluk, Bannur, Sosale, Talakadu in T Narasipur taluk and other prominent hobli headquarters of Periyapatna, Hunsur, K R Nagar, H D Kote and parts of Mysuru taluk. The tight lockdown measures due to Covid-19 have resulted in the closure of several chemical, fertilisers and seeds supply shops. Despite the demand for seeds, several private seed distributors and shops still remain closed. As transportation services too are suspended, farmers are still making all efforts to buy the seeds, thus delaying sowing in several regions of the district. Though Raitha Samparka Kendras are opened and are distributing seeds, they have failed to ensure seeds to all farmers due to stringent rules, said Andanigowda, a farmer in Sosale Hobli. Speaking to TOI, joint director of agriculture, Dr Mahantheshappa said the department has set a target of sowing in 2.83 lakh hectares of rain-fed land in the district. It has also stocked varieties of paddy seeds for 1.14 lakh irrigated land of the district apart from kharif sowing seeds. It has also stocked enough black grams, maize, sun flower other seeds. The department is distributing seeds for farmers through the Raitha Samparka Kendra in all hobli headquarters on a subsidised rate after collecting Aadhar details, RTCs and other land records. ‘Green pass’ will be distributed to farmers settled in urban and town limits to reach their land in villages to take up sowing. There is no need of green pass for farmers living in villages as the district administration had given directions to police and other law enforcement agencies to facilitate the farmers buy seeds and involve in farming activities. Instructions have also been given to all tractor garages, agriculture tool shops etc to open and help farmers. Meanwhile, Karnataka State Sugarcane Growers Association president Kurubur Shanthakumar told TOI that the agriculture department claimed that they had stored enough seeds and fertilizers, but farmers in several parts of the district are struggling to buy seeds and fertilizers. “Karnataka may face its worst farming crisis if the government does not address farmer-centric demands and issues,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mysuru/farmers-ready-for-sowing-crops-but-seeds-are-hard-to-get/articleshow/75130294.cms||---
April 14, 2020||Goa||Canacona fishermen seek help||Poinguinim: More than 400 fishermen from Canacona have appealed to the state government to bail them out after being hit hard due to lockdown in times of the coronavirus pandemic The fishermen, who run small scale businesses with boats and mechanised vessels, have been told the government cannot be of much help due to the financial crunch. But Palolem councillor Divakar Pagi felt constituting a committee to examine their problems is the need of the hour. “Some of the fishermen are economically very weak and need help. They will not be able to make ends meet during the monsoon (when there is a ban on fishing),” said Pagi.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/canacona-fishermen-seek-help/articleshow/75130854.cms||---
April 14, 2020||Nagpur||PM’s Rs500 dole is yet to reach 2.57 lakh accounts||Nagpur: In Nagpur district, the government’s Rs500 dole for the poor to deal with financial hardships due to the coronavirus lockdown has not reached 2.57 lakh accounts yet. The dole was announced early this month. The amount is being deposited into Jandhan accounts held by women. Sources said the banks, too, need to report the correct number of Jandhan accounts to the government so that the money goes into every account. As bank’s reopened after an extended weekend due to Good Friday, there were long queues of women at various branches on Monday. A holiday on account of Ambedkar Jayanti on Tuesday also added to the numbers at the banks. According to figures gathered by the banking industry, out of the 5.48 lakh women Jandhan accounts in the district, money has been deposited in 2.91 lakh. The activities in Nagpur are monitored by Bank of India which has been designated as the lead bank for the district. The figures were compiled by the bank as well. Each district has a lead bank which monitors priority sector lending and other such activities. According to Vijaysingh Bais, the lead manager from BOI, since April 2 until Monday evening, over 46,000 women have withdrawn Rs3.36 crore from their Jandhan accounts in Nagpur district. The figures were not reported by 2-3 banks till the evening as the numbers may increase after that. The banks saw a huge rush on Monday after they reopened after an extended weekend. However, social distancing was maintained, said Bais. As TOI went around some of the banks’ branches, a majority of those lining up in front of counters were women Jandhan account holders. Kalpana Yele, a maid, whose services have been discontinued by her employers, waited patiently outside the SBI’s main branch at Kingsway. “People have stopped work at homes since a month but they haven’t paid me my dues. As it’s difficult to pull on, even Rs500 will go a long way in such times,” she said. Gulabshah Band, who is in her 20s, said, “Even though grains are being donated, we need money to buy vegetables and other essentials.” Vijay Shende and three others, who had lined up to withdraw money from their wives’ accounts, said they had come earlier too, but were told that the money was yet to be credited. “We are housekeeping staff and have to report to work every day for attendance, but we are get to get our salaries,” he said. Sushma Sarode, who worked as a conductor for Starbus service, said she withdrew Rs1000 which included the Rs500 dole. She is now left with just Rs16 in her account. Sarode was suspended after a few ticketless commuters were found in her bus. Meanwhile, some of the banks have put up notices asking account holders to withdraw money if they really needed it.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/pms-rs500-dole-is-yet-to-reach-2-57-lakh-accounts/articleshow/75130878.cms||Shishir Arya
April 14, 2020||Ahmedabad||Customizable face shields developed||Ahmedabad: Anticipating a growing need for personal protective equipment (PPE) for the thousands of health workers involved in Covid-19 sampling and isolating in cities, villages and small towns, the Bhavnagar based research laboratory CSIR-Central Salt and Marine Chemicals Research Institute (CSIR-CSMCRI) have developed face shields to safeguard the face of paramedics from sputum of the patients while they sneeze while taking samples. The shield is light weight that can be worn very easily through the elastic band and the whole shield weighs just 30 grams. The first 100 pieces are already in use at Bhavnagar Medical College (BMC) for opinion of doctors and paramedics who are on the front-line in providing Covid care. The best part of the shield is that it is made of polylacticacid (PLA), which is completely biodegradable and will not cause plastic pollution. Also the shield is 100 microns thick with clear visibility. Right now some 100 pieces of the equipment is being use by the Bhavnagar Medical College and that many doctors and paramedics are already fining it useful. “The shield extends and covers beyond the neck portion, so if a doctor is examining the patient while the latter is asleep and during this examination the patient coughs or sneezes , the micro droplets may get through the space between the neck and the chin, it could be a problem. Our shield provides enough protection,” says a senior scientist at the institute. He also adds that most of the technology or equipment made by the institute for Covid-19 control or protection will not be patented and will be available for any Indian citizen to replicate. Protective shields that are available in the market today are of 800 microns to 300 microns thickness. “The present (CSIR-CSMCRI) face shield was made using 3D printing and can be customised for doctors and paramedics who are constantly working in Covid care centres immediately. For those in field who collect nasal and throat swabs a standard mould is being manufactured that can help the manufacture of the shield on a mass scale and be made available to those in field,” says the senior scientist.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/customizable-face-shields-developed/articleshow/75130708.cms||---
April 14, 2020||Hyderabad||Suicide pact? Two women, child found dead in Hyderabad||HYDERABAD: Bodies of two women were found hanging from two different trees in Jawaharnagar early on Monday morning. The body of a child was also found nearby. Police said they are exploring all possible angles, but prima facie, they learnt that the two women travelled all the way from Karimnagar town after they were reprimanded by their husbands for returning home late. Jawaharnagar police identified the deceased as Arekala Sumathi (25), Sriramula Anusha (25) and Uma Maheshwari (8), based on their mobile phones and statements given by their spouses. “The women were family friends and had hanged themselves, it seems. It looks like a suicide pact, but we are considering other angles,” said a police official. On Friday night, Sumathi and Anusha along with her daughter left their homes in Karimnagar without informing their husbands. It is learnt that they boarded some goods vehicle and reached Shamirpet. “From Shamirpet they contacted a pastor, who came and picked them up. He shifted them to Jawaharnagar,” K Siva Kumar, assistant commissioner of police (Kushaiguda division), said. After staying in a church till 11.30 pm on Sunday, the women, left the church after the pastor left for his nearby residence. Police believe that Maheshwari was given poison by mixing mosquito repellent and few other chemicals in a soft drink by her mother and Sumathi. After the child died, the two women are said to have hanged themselves. In the morning, locals who saw the two women hanging and the dead child, immediately called the police. “We identified the three females by using their mobile phones. A local scribe gave us a lead, saying that he saw them in a nearby local church at Gabbilalapeta,” the ACP told TOI.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/suicide-pact-2-women-child-found-dead/articleshow/75130752.cms||---
April 14, 2020||Dehradun||Residents form ‘Lockdown Club’ to socialise; stitch masks for poor||Dehradun: To interact with people and yet maintain social distancing during the Covid-19 lockdown, residents of Ashtha Villa society in Keval Vihar area of Dehradun have chalked out a unique method. The residents here have set up a ‘Lockdown Club’ and all eight families living in this neighbourhood are part of this group. The club members come at their rooftops every evening and play games like Tambola, Antakshari, and recite devotional songs using mikes and speakers. Locals say that this arrangement has helped them in keeping their morale high during the lockdown. Sadhna Sharma, a resident of the area, told TOI, “The lockdown has restricted our movement but we have figured out an alternative way to interact with people. We all look forward to this evening ritual. Some days, we play games and on other days, we recite devotional songs and pray for healthcare workers, police, and others who are fighting Covid-19 on the ground. On Monday, we divided men and women of the area into two teams and played Antakshari.” The residents say that the initial days of lockdown were difficult for them but the ‘Lockdown Club’ has helped them in dealing with this crisis. Mohinder Kapoor, another resident of the area, told TOI, “Besides self-restraint, the lockdown has taught us the way to remain happy with whatever we have. Since we cannot go out to meet people or host guests at our homes, our society has become like a big family now. Every evening, we meet our neighbours at 6 pm and engage in activities for two hours. This ritual makes us forget our worries.” The Lockdown Club is also helping the locals in channelising their inner talents. “Some people write poems and recite for all of us, others write jokes and make everyone giggle,” said Renu Ahuja, a resident of the area. Another resident, Rajesh Gujral, told TOI, “The current situation has given us the opportunity to become better individuals. We are all abiding by lockdown rules and staying indoors. Meanwhile, our evening ritual is helping us fight loneliness and distress during lockdown.” Meanwhile, to prevent the spread of coronavirus, several social groups and good samaritans are investing this lockdown time in preparing face masks for people in need. Yashveer Arya, a resident of Canal Road who has been stitching face masks with cotton cloth, told TOI, “Some of us have taken the task of preparing masks and handing out to needy people. So far, I have stitched more than 100 masks.” Another local resident Nandini Sharma has roped in 10 women to stitch face masks with cotton clothes. “We have prepared more than 1,000 face masks and we plan to give those out to needy people, especially in slum areas. We have also been approached by some doctors for face masks”. Rajeev Gurung, a resident of district’s Johri village, has involved several women from Kalyani self-help group who are making 1,000 masks every day. Rajeev told TOI, “The lockdown has impacted livelihood of many people. So, I thought of involving some women in stitching masks and generate income for them.” Besides some residents, a few social groups in Dehradun have also taken the responsibility of making face masks for frontline workers. One such organisation is “Guru Teg Bahadur Sahib Gurmat Kender”. Harpal Singh Sethi, vice president of the body, told TOI, “We aim to prepare 125 face masks which can be used by people who are working on the ground. So far, we have stitched 125 masks. In a pilot project, we had distributed face masks among vegetable vendors who have given us a very encouraging feedback.” Another group All India Women’s Conference is also preparing face mask and distributing it among people from economically weaker sections. Aruna Chawla, president of All India Women’s Conference, told TOI, “We have a target of preparing 500 masks and have already made 100 of them. Our initiative also aims at encouraging people to wear mask and be safe”.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/residents-form-lockdown-club-to-socialise-stitch-masks-for-poor/articleshow/75130175.cms||---
April 14, 2020||Goa||No new suspects, but 2 SARI isolation wards created at GMC||Panaji: While no new coronavirus suspects have been detected in the state, patients suffering from severe respiratory infections (SARI) are being kept in a separate isolation ward, chief minister Pramod Sawant said on Monday. Two isolation wards, apart from the isolation wards for Covid-19 suspects, have been created at Goa Medical College , Sawant said. SARI patients are also tested for Covid-19, he said. Goa has two active Covid-19 cases, while five patients have been cured have been placed in 14-day monitored quarantine. Of the 42 samples sent for testing, 30 have tested negative while 12 reports are awaited, stated a media bulletin issued by the directorate of health services (DHS). As many as 103 travellers are under 28-day quarantine as per the list provided by Central government. The DHS also clarified that no new persons have been placed in home quarantine. Earlier in the day, health minister Vishwajit Rane said that a rapid testing facility has been started at the North Goa District Hospital at Mapusa. One rapid testing machine, procured from Molbio, will also be installed at the sub-district hospital at Ponda. Those testing positive in the anti-body test will further have to undergo a confirmatory test for Covid-19.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/no-new-suspects-but-2-sari-isolation-wards-created-at-gmc/articleshow/75130861.cms||---
April 14, 2020||Goa||Goa: Illegal fish vendors earn quick buck, turn open spaces into mini markets||MARGAO: With trawlers out in the seas for fishing, and fish markets being closed, fish is now available in plenty on road sides, public open spaces and footpaths, clearly in violation of the guidelines of the fisheries department. What’s significant is that traditional fish vendors have been edged out of the business during the lockdown by opportunist fly by night operators who have taken over the retail fish business - at least in many parts of South Goa. Consequently, any available open space has been converted into a fish market turning the place filthy in the absence of any waste disposal facility. South Goa collector Ajit Roy when contacted said action would be taken against the illegalities. The waste water from the fish baskets flows onto the roads rendering them slippery and prone to accidents, sources said. “The illegal vendors have created mess all over Margao with setting up fish stalls at every junction of Margao. The customers who come to buy fish and other stuff on the roadside do not practice social distancing. Besides messing up the streets there have been several accidents in Margao due to this illegal selling and I have myself helped 3-4 injured people to reach hospital,” Navin Pai Raikar, Margao resident and a BJP functionary said.  In the absence of any waste disposal facilities, the refuse lying at the make-shift fish markets attracts flies and strays thereby posing a health hazard. “As nobody knows the source of this fish and for how long it was preserved in storage, there’s every possibility that formalin may have been added to it,” Sanjay Dessai, principal of CES high school, Cuncolim, said. Nonetheless, owners of fishing trawlers were elated with the lifting of the fishing ban and resolved to follow the 14-point guidelines set by the fisheries department to maintain social distance and practice sanitation. Sources from the Malim and Cutbona jetty said that most of the trawlers ventured into the sea on Monday along with their crew. “We were worried about the fate of our livelihood,” one of the fishermen said. Fish boat owner Sebastiao Cardozo said that the lifting of the ban has come as a welcome relief. Caetano D’Souza, a traditional fisherman from Caranzalem also said that the ramponkars from his jurisdiction are ready to cast their nets.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/illegal-fish-vendors-earn-quick-buck-turn-open-spaces-into-mini-markets/articleshow/75130864.cms||---
April 14, 2020||Bhopal||Corona warriors spl guest at Guv’s b’day celebration||Bhopal: As the state battles with coronavirus, Governor Lalji Tandon celebrated his birthday with the corona warriors to thank them for their services. A lunch was hosted at the banquet hall of Raj Bhavan, official residence of the governor, on Sunday. In attendance were the sanitary workers, police constables, drivers and the entire junior staff working at Raj Bhavan. Governor ate with the workers as a ‘thank you’ gesture for their services rendered during these tough times. Governor also hosted lunch for other corona warriors of Bhopal on his birthday. He sent 600 lunch packets for corona control room cops, sanitary workers of municipal corporation and cleanliness staff of the hospitals. The lunch at Raj Bhavan was for some of the junior most staffers, including sanitary workers, police constables, drivers, cooks, photographer, apart from nurses and doctor. It was organised with full honour at the banquet hall of Raj Bhavan, which generally hosts VIPs. The luncheon was hosted keeping in mind the needs of social distancing; tables were placed at a distance of two metres each. Some of the food packets that were send to corona warriors across the city, were packed by the Governor himself.The Governor also planted a ‘Harsingar’ sapling on the Jawaharkhand campus; Harsingar flower is the state flower of West Bengal.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/corona-warriors-spl-guest-at-guvs-bday-celebration/articleshow/75129159.cms||---
April 14, 2020||Goa||‘No hassles, surveyors knew their job’||Panaji: Day-One of the three-day survey passed without a hitch for most citizens who said they had an overall smooth experience. Surveyors went through the questions quickly and fed the answers directly to the phone app. The entire exercise took only a few minutes, they said. The surveyors all wore masks and maintained social distancing. “Mine ran inside the gate, rang the door bell and ran out and shouted questions from the road. They had issues with network coverage in our area,” a citizen from Dona Paula said. The entire exercise was paperless. One local from Bastora, who thought the survey would be sent to him via WhatsApp, said, “They stood far away and asked questions, but there was no way of knowing whether they fed in the exact answers I was giving them. I don’t know what they have typed. I didn’t receive any feedback report on my phone. Why did they take down our numbers? Shouldn’t the filled up answer sheet come back to me.” In some cases, surveyors were questioned as to why they weren’t wearing gloves during the exercise. In Panaji, the surveyors handed out leaflets to residents, many of whom were reluctant to accept them. “We took it very carefully, read it, and just to be safe, kept it in the veranda in a place where we will not come in contact with it. The government should use digital means to pass on information,” Panaji-resident Suraj Sakhardande said. In Assagao, O Braganza refused to entertain the surveyors after they couldn’t produce a circular from the government regarding the survey. “The BLO told me he had the circular on his mobile, but when I asked him to forward it to me he didn’t. I got no response from the sarpanch and secretary either. I cannot entertain anybody without seeing an official letter from the government about the survey,” he told TOI. Some residents who were expecting to be tested with a thermal scanner were disappointed at just being asked questions. “There were no hassles at all, the surveyor knew what he was doing, but I didn’t understand the purpose of the survey. How can they be sure we are telling the truth? They can easily get travel details from the airlines or airport,” one resident said. Some residents printed out the questionnaire, filled up the answers and proudly handed over the papers to the surveyors before disappearing indoors. Although instructed to keep their phone GPS on to capture the location of each household, in some places with multiple apartments, like in Margao, surveyors under pressure to cover all houses in three days took the easy way out. They conducted the survey over the phone.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/no-hassles-surveyors-knew-their-job/articleshow/75130874.cms||Lisa Monteiro
April 14, 2020||Nashik||City records season’s highest of 40.2°C; no respite for 3 days: IMD||Nashik: The city recorded the season’s highest temperature of 40.2 degrees celsius on Monday, even as sources in the weather department forecast same weather pattern for the next three days. The city had recorded a maximum temperature of 39.7 degrees celsius on the same day last year.Moreover, the minimum temperature too was at five-month high of 22.2 degrees, three degrees above normal, against the 22 degrees recorded on November 1 last year.The maximum temperature was 2 degree above normal on Monday, said India Meteorology Department (IMD) sources.The city had recorded a maximum temperature of 38 degrees on April 6, but the it had reduced to 36.4 degrees on April 9. The mercury, however, started soaring thereafter.According to IMD sources, the maximum temperature in the city is expected to remain between 40 and 41 degrees for next three days.Meanwhile, the maximum temperature in the north Maharashtra cities of Malegaon and Jalgaon crossed the 42-degree mark on Monday. Jalgaon recorded a maximum temperature of 43 degrees while a minimum of 25 degrees. The maximum temperature in Malegaon town was 42.2 degrees and the minimum 23.4 degree.Citizens have been feeling the heat and many have turned to coolers. For instance, Mitesh Khairnar said, “The temperature has been rising in the past few days. I had packed my cooler soon after summer last year. Now, I have started using it.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/city-records-seasons-highest-of-40-2c-no-respite-for-3-days-imd/articleshow/75130880.cms||Tushar Pawar
April 14, 2020||Goa||Help bring us home: Cruise crew to Goa CM||PANAJI: The 93 Goan crew members stuck on board the cruise ship Karnika since March 12 have written to chief minister Pramod Sawant to facilitate their return home. The letter signed by the crew states that the ship doesn’t have a single suspected Covid-19 case. “None of the 650 crew members on board have shown any symptoms of Covid-19 since December,” the crew stated in the letter. The ship’s last operational trip was on March 1, the letter states. Karnika sailed to Dubai with 124 passengers and reached the Gulf on March 5. All passengers disembarked in Dubai, and due to Covid-19 restrictions, the ship’s owners decided to bring the vessel back to Mumbai. On arrival, the letter states, all crew members were medically cleared by the port public health office. As a precautionary measure and due to various restrictions, Karnika was anchored at the outer anchorage of Mumbai port. While foreign and Maharashtrian crew members were allowed to leave the vessel, Goan crew members were not granted permission. They claim their self-quarantine period ended on March 26 and that their requests to various authorities have gone unheeded. The letter also states that, if not for the lockdown, their families would have met Sawant in person to explain their plight. Stating that their families are frightened, the crew members have pleaded with Sawant to help them by sending a coach or bus to Mumbai to facilitate their return to Goa. Earlier this week, ports minister Michael Lobo stated that all the crew members would be allowed to disembark at Mumbai. “After 14 days quarantine in Mumbai, they will be given a medical certificate that they are Covid-19 negative. They will then be brought to Goa by bus, once again tested here for coronavirus, and then sent home to quarantine themselves.” The state government-appointed nodal officer, Anthony D’Souza, appointed to receive pleas of Goans working abroad and unable to return home due to the pandemic, said he has not received any letter or plea from either the Goan crew members onboard Karnika or the company owning the vessel. Further, he said that his ambit of work is restricted to Goans working abroad, while these crew members are already in India. A source said that the government hasn’t taken any decision regarding the crew. “It is a sad situation. Some decision may be taken after April 14 as the government might loosen lockdown restrictions,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/karnika-crew-members-write-to-cm-ask-to-be-taken-home/articleshow/75131307.cms||---
April 14, 2020||Goa||Roadmap for Goa after PM’s address: Pramod Sawant||PANAJI: Chief minister Pramod Sawant said on Monday that the state government would decide the roadmap for the next fortnight after Prime Minister Narendra Modi addresses the nation on Tuesday morning. He also hinted that the lockdown could be extended for more than 15 days. Sawant said he has directed the authorities to mark on a map of the state where patients who tested positive for Covid-19 were found, for government record. The chief minister further said that the Goa government has begun studying the various models implemented in other states to fight Covid-19. “Ninety per cent of Goans have followed the lockdown announced by the PM,” he said. The state government had earlier suggested to Modi that the lockdown in Goa be extended till April 30. It had also recommended that air and rail services not be resumed and that the state’s borders be kept closed. “The PM was already informed of what should be opened and what should remain shut in the state during the continuation of the lockdown,” Sawant said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/roadmap-for-goa-after-pms-address-sawant/articleshow/75130882.cms||---
April 14, 2020||Bhopal||Protest in Rewa over shifting of Covid +ve inmates||Bhopal: Following the shifting of two persons who had tested positive for Covid-19 from a jail in Satna to Rewa, protests broke out in the region. The duo was lodged in the Satna jail after they were booked under the National Security Act (NSA) for pelting stones at police in Indore on April 7. Senior Congress leaders were booked after they gheraoed Rewa collectorate against the shifting of the inmates to Rewa’s Sanjay Gandhi Hospital. Medical shops were also kept closed in protest. People demanded that the duo be shifted out of the Vindhya region. They were shifted to Rewa on Sunday night. Former Madhya Pradesh chief minister Kamal Nath also expressed concern over shifting the NSA detainees from one district to another despite the lockdown. “It is surprising that while there is lockdown in the state, many districts are under curfew and their boundaries sealed in view of the Coronavirus scare and people not being allowed to move from one district to other, those detained under NSA in Indore were sent to Satna and they were found positive for Covid-19,” Kamal Nath had tweeted on Sunday. Former leader of opposition Ajay Singh too attacked the state government for “importing” Covid-19 to the Vindhya region. In a tweet, he said, “Vindhya region did not have a single case of Covid-19. Is CM Shivraj Singh Chouhan trying to control Corona or spread it? People are angry and before something happens, the Covid-19 positive brought from outside should be shifted outside the Vindhya region.” DM Satna, Ajay Katesaria told media that two NSA detainees sent from Indore had symptoms of Covid-19 after which they were tested and found positive on Sunday. Five under-trails and 12 members of the prison staff were also quarantined. Besides, the Satna central jail and residential colony was declared a containment area. Jail authorities maintained that there is no threat to other detainees in the jail as the ones who tested positive for Covid-19 were in isolation barracks at the jail. Jail headquarters have ordered that all new arrivals in jails be kept in isolation barracks for 14 days before being shifted to regular barracks. They are also being tested for Covid-19 as well.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/protest-in-rewa-over-shifting-of-covid-ve-inmates/articleshow/75129193.cms||---
April 14, 2020||Goa||‘Treat Covid patients well’||Panaji: Chief minister Pramod Sawant on Monday said all five recovered patients are willing to create awareness about the spread of coronavirus. He also said they should not be stigmatised in society. Sawant told mediapersons, “I have checked about their well-being, the facilities at quarantine centres and the health of their families,” he said. The chief minister said that all five persons should not be treated differently in society. “They are like us. Covid-19 is not a permanent disease,” he said. Stating that a few require counselling, Sawant said he has directed the health secretary to provide them with help. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/treat-covid-patients-well/articleshow/75130891.cms||---
April 14, 2020||Nashik||4 more high-risk contacts traced in Gangapur Road||Nashik: The health teams of Nashik Municipal Corporation (NMC) on Monday traced four more high-risk contacts in Anandvalli on Gangapur Road area of the city. They have been isolated in NMC’s Zakir Hussain hospital in the city and their throat swab samples have been sent for testing to Pune-based National Institute of Virology. "With these four fresh cases, the total number of high risk patients in Anandvalli area of Gangapur Road has reached 10," a civic official said. "There were no new high risk contacts traced during the survey in Rajlaxmi lawns area on Nashik Road on Monday. We had traced 20 high risk contacts on the very first day of survey that took place on Saturday," he added. The official said that the total number of high risk contacts in both the locations is 30 — 20 in Nashik Road area and 10 in Gangapur Road area. "Of these 26 have tested negative, while reports of the remaining four is still awaited," he added, The 26 who tested negative include eight family members of two positive patients. The civic body had sealed the upmarket Anandvalli locality on Gangapur Road and Rajlaxmi lawns area in Nashik Road after two residents from these areas tested Covid-19 positive on Friday evening. "We have sealed both the areas for 14 days, beginning from Saturday. Moreover, we have also started door-to-door survey to find out suspects, if any, through a total of 33 teams. As many as 21 teams are working in Ananvalli, while the number of teams working in Nashik Road area is 11," the official said. The NMC teams have surveyed over 3,500 houses in both the areas, covering a population of over 15,000. "We have sanitized the total containment areas at both the locations where the two positive patients were found," the official said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/4-more-high-risk-contacts-traced-in-gangapur-road/articleshow/75130885.cms||Tushar Pawar
April 14, 2020||Nagpur||28% of the state’s Covid-19 calls to cops were from Nagpur||NAGPUR: Nagpurians were the highest call makers to the control room related to pandemic Covid-19 in comparison to the rest of the state during the national lockdown period. The city control room received 18,429 calls, the most in the state till 4pm on Monday. View it as a raised awareness level or faith in the khaki department, the latest data released projected Nagpur police’s control room as having received 28% of the total calls (65,546) for corona-related issues since the lockdown was announced. Mumbai, which is second in the list, received around 17,396 till date followed by Pune (6,887). On Monday, city police had received 25% of the total calls made to 100 in the state. DCP, special branch and corona-cell in-charge, Shweta Khedkar, attributed the statistics to the higher level of awareness among citizens related to the coronavirus along with their anticipation of assistance from the police department. “We have been analysing the calls coming to the control room every day related to the Covid-19 issues. People are alerting the control room regarding over-crowding, suspects, quarantine-related information and many other inter-related issues. Citizens are alerting the police on various aspects of Covid-19 due to the department’s positive role in the society so far during the lockdown,” said Khedkar. The increased police presence, the popular route marches and other measures under CP BK Upadhyay and Joint CP Ravindra Kadam have won the faith of the commoners and hence they are feeling motivated to call ‘100’. Apart from the control room, Addl CP, crime, Nilesh Bharne, too, has started a ‘corona war room’ which handles calls round-the-clock on its helpline number for food and other needs. Food packets and ration kits are then distributed to around 75,000 person through police-public initiatives involving NGOs. The statistics also showed city police having so far registered 2,623 cases against the violators of the lockdown orders till 4pm on Monday. It stands sixth in the state in terms of cases registered after Pune (5,178), Ahmednagar (3,739), Pimpri-Chhindwad (3,284), Solapur (3,198) and Nasikh (2,646). Jt CP Kadam on Monday formally extended the lockdown period from April 15 to April 30 allowing exemptions for essential and emergency services. He reiterated his warning to citizens of penal action against violators under section 188 of the Indian penal code for the breach of his order under section 144 of the criminal procedure code (CrPC). State cyber security cell, through SP Balsingh Rajput, informed TOI that 187 cases have been registered in Maharashtra since the lockdown for spreading rumours, fake news and hate messages. CP Upadhyay said he would also review the functioning of the cyber cell. In the city, only five offences have been registered for misusing social platforms. On Monday, city police’s traffic department fined 175 persons and seized 35 vehicles for violations.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/28-of-the-states-covid-19-calls-to-cops-were-from-city/articleshow/75130954.cms||Soumitra Bose
April 14, 2020||Ahmedabad||Relaxation sought over Nayara hearing||Ahmedabad: The people of Gagava village near Jamnagar have written to the district collector for permission to go out in the lockdown period. The reason for this being that they want to prepare for the coming public hearing in connection with environmental clearance for Russian oil giant Rosneft-backed Nayara Energy’s expansion plans at Vadinar. The village head, Mahendrasinh Jadeja, recently wrote to the district collector, seeking his intervention for the public hearing scheduled to be held on May 1. In his letter, Jadeja wrote that Gujarat Pollution Control Board (GPCB) recently asked him and others to spread awareness about Nayara Energy’ environment impact assessment (EIA) report by conducting a village-level meeting. The public hearing concerned the environmental clearance for Nayara’s proposed Rs 1.3 lakh crore expansion at Vadinar. Some villagers approached the high court recently alleging that the mandated public hearing for environmental clearance for the project was not held. “Now GPCB has fixed May 1 as the date for the public hearing. As a rule, one month’s period is required for preparation. We are in lockdown and not allowed to move out. We may have to pass a resolution in the gram sabha for the public hearing. If the lockdown rules are relaxed for us, we can hold meetings and create awareness among villagers about the project. So, we request the authorities to intervene and take action,” Jadeja, said. Nayara Energy’s expansion plan includes setting up a 10.75 million metric tonnes per annum (MMTPA) capacity petrochemical complex and expansion of the refinery from 20 MMTPA to 46 MMTPA for a total investment of about Rs 1.3 lakh crore. A group of people from villages such as Gagva, Khavdi, Meghpar, Padana, Jakhar, Vadinar, Timbdi, Devadiya and Lakhiya objected to the grant of clearance by the ministry of environment, forests and climate change (MoEFCC) on the grounds that a public hearing was not held. In August last year, a public consultation was held over the grant of environmental clearance to Nayara’s proposed expansion plans. Villagers and others to be affected by the project were required to send responses in writing to Gujarat Pollution Control Board (GPCB) member secretary till August 5. GPCB forwarded the responses to the MoEFCC for consideration. This was perhaps the first time that GPCB chose the public consultation route instead of a public hearing. Presently, Nayara operates a 20 million tonnes a year oil refinery at Vadinar. The expansion will also mark Nayara Energy’s foray into the petrochemicals business.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/relaxation-sought-over-nayara-hearing/articleshow/75130914.cms||Maulik Pathak
April 14, 2020||Hyderabad||Zoonoses must be dealt with on a war footing, says ICMR||HYDERABAD: Even as serious efforts are on to find a vaccine to treat the novel coronavirus, researchers at the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) and experts have called for an integrated disease surveillance approach on both humans and animals. Agreeing that lack of proper knowledge on zoonotic diseases is pushing the researchers on the back foot, experts said a large number of human infectious diseases are caused by animals or transmitted (60%) from animals. ICMR researchers also suggest that animal and public health authorities should collaborate to develop protocols for evidence-based surveillance. Former director (communicable diseases), WHO South-East Asia region, Rajesh Bhatia said one of the key reasons for the epidemics to spread rapidly is the delay in early detection of the virus owing to weak surveillance and lack of human-animal interface. “Non-availability of specific anti-viral vaccines at the time of a pandemic makes matters worse," he said. Recalling that H1N1 virus, Avian flu, SARS, MERS and Nipah are perfect examples of zoonotic diseases, Bhatia said many of these viruses originated from animals caused a pandemic leading to substantial mortality, social chaos and huge economic loss. Bhatia’s paper was published in ICMR on March 27 which spoke about human-animal interface for rapid detection and response to coronavirus infections. Joining the issue, PV Narasimha Rao Telangana State Veterinary University professor ST Viroji Rao told TOI, "We have very limited access to database on zoonotic diseases. Also, this information is not properly shared or discussed with doctors who deal with human health. We must have a common strategy to deal with zoonotic diseases." Experts pointed out that the Integrated Disease Surveillance Programme (ISDP) of Union ministry of family welfare and health had failed to address the issue of sharing of information with veterinarians and doctors. Highlighting as to how lack of information exchange has often led to spread of diseases from animals to humans, Viroji Rao said, “In north coastal Andhra Pradesh, anthrax-infected cattle are slaughtered and its meat is eaten by tribals. This led to the spread of disease among locals in Visakhapatnam Agency.” Viroji Rao said ‘brucellosis’ virus causes abortion in animals. “But, pet clinics do not maintain a database or interested in collecting information on the disease among dogs and cats. Pet animals can transmit leptospirosis and several other diseases," he warned. He added, "Companion animals cannot transmit a disease like Covid-19. WHO and Indian Veterinary Association have clearly stated that companion animals do not transmit virus to humans," he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/zoonoses-must-be-dealt-with-on-a-war-footing-says-icmr/articleshow/75130890.cms||U Sudhakar Reddy
April 14, 2020||India||Corona: Bhubaneswar to screen 2 lakh slum dwellers||BHUBANESWAR: Beginning Tuesday, the Bhubaneswar Municipal Corporation (BMC) will launch a massive surveillance to check the health status of around two lakh slum dwellers in the city to see if anyone is infected with novel coronavirus and take appropriate measures to deal with it. The BMC has decided to engage at least 1000 Anganwadi and Asha workers as well as members of Mahila Arogya Samiti (MAS) to carry out the survey. The workers will be sent to each household in the slum localities to check the health status of slum-dwellers twice a week. Based on their health status, the BMC will be able to decide proper intervention strategies. The city has around 536 slum clusters. BMC deputy commissioner Subhendu Sahu said 350 Anganwadi workers have been roped in for the job. “The field workers will visit each household. They will note down the details of the family, including recent travel history, chronic diseases and existing flu-like symptoms. The teams will be provided with safety gears such as gloves, masks and sanitisers,” said Sahu. BMC officials said Anganwadi workers have already received training as to how to conduct the survey and record the health status of each household. “The Asha and Mas members will accompany the Anganwadi workers. Once they complete the health enumeration, they will prepare a report and submit it to the child development project officer (CDPO). For 200 household, one Anganwadi worker will be deployed and to oversee the survey, three CDPOs have been asked to coordinate with the field personnel,” said a BMC officer. Most of the domestic maids, vendors, drivers and other blue-collar workers stay in slums where the houses are tightly packed. In case of an epidemic, such areas can become vulnerable. “The lockdown has greatly helped us to contain the spread of the virus in slum areas. Till now, thankfully, no one has been reported positive of Covid-19 from these areas,” Sahu added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/corona-bhubaneswar-to-screen-2-lakh-slum-dwellers/articleshow/75131819.cms||Riyan Ramanath V
April 14, 2020||Bareilly||Bulandshahr DM removes Dibai SDM after 16 corona suspects flee quarantine facility||Meerut: In the backdrop of the 16 Covid-19 suspects who fled the quarantine facility in Bulandshahr on Sunday, district magistrate Ravindra Kumar has removed sub divisional magistrate (SDM), Dibai Sanjay Kumar over negligence in the matter. He has also ordered that an FIR be registered against six government officials -- four assistant development officers and two village panchayat secretaries -- for negligence. All the escapees were traced by Monday morning. The orders to remove the SDM and filing an FIR against the six officials were issued a day after 16 Covid-19 suspects fled from a quarantine facility at Janta Inter College in Dibai. “Instructions have been given to file an FIR against village panchayat secretaries, Jaipal Singh, Kripaal Singh, Mohit Bhushan and Nrip Singh, besides assistant development officer (Dibai) Abhilash Batham and assistant development officer (Danpur) Suresh Chandra Rai for negligence shown by them in following the Covid-19 norms of the state government,” said Bulandshahr DM Ravindra Kumar. TOI had earlier reported how 16 people suspected of suffering from Covid-19 kept in a 14-day quarantine at Janta inter College in DIbai on Saturday broke open the grill and escaped from the quarantine centre. Police launched a manhunt for them and traced all 16 of them by Monday morning. Akhilesh Kumar Gaur, station house officer, Dibai police station, said, “During investigation, it was found that the officials concerned were entrusted with making a list of the villagers who came from other districts around this time. They made a list but did not send the actual number of people into quarantine. For instance, a list of 60 people was made but only 16 from that area were sent into quarantine, thereby creating confusion when 16 of them fled and the others were also not found at the facility. It was later revealed that the others were never put into quarantine.” An FIR under IPC sections 188 (disobedience to order duly promulgated by public servant), 269 (negligent act likely to spread infection of disease dangerous to life), 270 (malignant act likely to spread infection of disease dangerous to life) and relevant sections of the Epidemic Diseases Act has been filed against the officials concerned.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/bulandshahr-dm-removes-dibai-sdm-after-16-corona-suspects-flee-quarantine-facility/articleshow/75130220.cms||Ishita Bhatia
April 14, 2020||Meerut||Father stuck in Rajasthan, youth kills himself in UP with a last wish that he should perform last rites||Bijnor: A Class IX student hanged himself from a tree on Monday morning in UP’s Bijnor district after scribbling a request on its bark, that his father should bring down his body and perform the last rites. The 15-year-old’s last wish has put his poor and distraught family in a fix as his father, a tailor, is stuck due to lockdown in Rajasthan’s Kota district, about 700km away. Now, the family of Shakir Ahmad, who committed suicide on the outskirts of his village in Sherkot area, has appealed to Rajasthan government to help bring his father to the village. The exact reason of Shakir’s suicide is not known yet. Police said he was mentally disturbed, while the family claimed that he was normal, but under “some kind of spell” which made him take the extreme step. Sherkot’s station house officer (SHO) Sanjay Kumar said, “Using a stone, the boy wrote on the tree’s bark that his body be taken down in presence of his father, Zulfikar Ahmad, who is in Rajasthan’s Kota right now. We couldn’t let the body hang for such a long period, so it was taken down and sent for post-mortem examination. Meanwhile, his family members are now trying to get permission from Rajasthan government so that Zulfikar could attend the funeral of his son.” A family member said that Shakir used to bring firewood from the nearby forest. “On Monday morning, he went there on his cycle. But he didn’t return. Some passer-by saw him hanging and alerted everyone,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/meerut/father-stuck-in-rajasthan-youth-kills-himself-in-up-with-a-last-wish-that-he-should-perform-last-rites/articleshow/75130226.cms||Harveer Dabas
April 14, 2020||Bengaluru||Quarantined auto driver plays truant, leaves officials jittery||Bengaluru: A 39-year-old autorickshaw driver quarantined for having ferried a 66-year-old man from his house to a hospital before the latter tested positive for Covid-19 has turned into officials’ nightmare as he’s throwing tantrums, physically resisting isolation and repeatedly trying to escape from the facility. The auto driver, Mahendra L alias Mazhi of Munireddypaya, has been bringing the roof down over every small issue and has made at least three bids to escape, said BBMP health officials. They admitted this is a test of what lies ahead for them as the ranks of primary and secondary contacts of the infected requiring isolation are swelling. Speaking to TOI from Harsha Hotel, Shivajinagar, that has been converted into a public quarantine facility, Mazhi is unapologetic. “I am healthy and need no medicine. People need to understand and value others’ lives. These people have made a public showpiece of me and my entire locality looks at me like a terrorist now,” he said. It all began on April 8 when Mazhi, father of a a five-year-old girl and eight-year-old boy, was at an auto stand near his house, leaning against his vehicle. A friend called him on his mobile and told him about a customer he had to drop. “I went to the pick-up point — a house a couple of cross roads away — and picked up a senior citizen, who said he had to be taken to a neighbourhood clinic. The man looked unwell, wore a mask and carried a suitcase. “We went to the clinic. The passenger went in and came back after a while. He told me he had to be taken to Baptist Hospital in Hebbal. He also took my contact number, saying he will get in touch with me in case of emergency. I drove all the way to the hospital and the passenger asked me to take him to the emergency ward,” Mazhi added. At the emergency ward, there was some commotion. “Health workers asked my passenger to sleep on a stretcher but he declined and said he’d walk,” Mazhi narrated. The auto driver later headed back home. Unknown to him, the passenger, who had come to Bengaluru from Manipur on March 12, was found to be suffering from Severe Acute Respiratory Infection and tested positive Covid-19. “Once the first throat swab sample was positive, the Manipur patient revealed his contacts. That’s when we got to know about Mazhi and rushed to his house,” a senior BBMP health official said. “Mazhi was not ready to accept our explanation on why he needed to be put under public quarantine. He created a scene and declined to even step out. He pushed our doctors, threw things at us and shut the door on our face,” the official said, adding that a huge team had to be rushed there and Mazhi had to be physically whisked away to the quarantine facility. In the facility, Mazhi has emerged as the manager’s and doctors’ biggest headache. “He is restless and complains about everything from the food to bed. We are monitoring him closely and have even changed the angles of cameras to keep a closer watch on him,” the hotel manager said. The auto driver, however, said he’s missing his family. “I eat fish curry and eggs every day. Food here is absolutely tasteless. How can I eat upma for breakfast and dal and rice for lunch every day? These doctors will kill me by serving bad food,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/quarantined-auto-driver-plays-truant-leaves-officials-jittery/articleshow/75130229.cms||Nithya Mandyam
April 14, 2020||Bhopal||Revoke suspension of Dindori addl collector: Diggy||Bhopal: Senior Congress leader Digvijaya Singh on Monday shot a letter to chief minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan urging him to withdraw the suspension order of additional collector Dindori, Ramesh Kumar Singh. The additional collector, who was also the nodal officer, was suspended on April 9 following an alleged parking dispute with a doctor who was part of the disaster management committee of the district. Digvijaya Singh said in the letter that the officer was suspended without an inquiry which has adversely affected the morale of the administration and its officials who are putting their lives at risk working during these crucial times. In his letter to Chouhan, the Congress leader wrote, “I have come to know that on April 9 at 11am, a disaster committee meeting was called at Dindori district headquarters in which a Dr Sunil Jain who was present had parked his car at a wrong spot. Dindori additional collector, in-charge ADM and district nodal officer for the Corona epidemic, Ramesh Kumar Singh asked that the car should be parked in a proper place. To this, Dr Sunil Jain misbehaved and abused him. As crowds gathered, not only did it violate Section 144 but also put people at risk of the virus.” Digvijaya Singh claimed that Dr Sunil Jain filed a complaint showing his political clout and without any inquiry, the officer was suspended that very evening. “This adversely affects the morale of an officer who put his life at risk to work during these crucial times,” the letter said. Digvijaya Singh wrote that chief minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan should cancel the order of suspension against the officer. He advised that such steps can weaken the morale of government officials who are working on the field fighting the Coronavirus.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/revoke-suspension-of-dindori-addl-collector-diggy/articleshow/75129221.cms||---
April 14, 2020||Goa||Naik: Can’t deliver, let people apply for passes||Ponda: Ensuring delivery of vegetables, groceries and fish to every household through volunteers is not possible, Ponda MLA Ravi Naik said, while urging people to apply for one transit pass per household to enable them to step out to shop for essential commodities. “The transit passes will help people buy commodities according to their own convenience, and also there will be no rush in the market,” Naik said, even as he stressed on the importance of staying indoors for another fortnight. The Ponda legislator also urged the government open fish markets. The former chief minister also suggested that block level officers (BLO) be roped in for delivery of transit passes to households. “From parliamentary election to local civic body elections, these BLOs distribute voters’ slips to every house and as they know every house or voter, they are the right people to deliver transit passes,” he said. Naik said that this system could be used across the nation as people everywhere are reeling under the lockdown. He also said that the horticulture department does not have its vegetable kiosks across the entire state and hence people should be allowed to make their purchases at shops of their choice.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/naik-cant-deliver-let-people-apply-for-passes/articleshow/75130907.cms||---
April 14, 2020||Surat||Surat hospital a containment zone||SURAT: Lokhat Hospital in Rampura area was declared as a containment zone after five of its staff members tested positive for coronavirus in the last one week. Of the five, two tested positive last week, while three were found infected on Monday. The hospital is run by a private charitable trust. “We are taking samples from the hospital staff and from people living around the hospital,” said SMC commissioner Banchhanidhi Pani. The first to be infected was Sajid Ansari (40), driver of hospital’s ambulance who contracted the virus while transporting Ehsaan Khan Pathan, a positive patient from Rander to the hospital and then to SMIMER hospital, on April 4. On April 7, Pathan, who was suffering from co-morbid conditions, died. Sajid and four other close contacts of Pathan were shifted to the government quarantine facility where he tested positive on April 7. Vinod Gavit (27), a ward boy, who was Sajid’s room partner, also tested positive on April 10. About six close contacts of Vinod were shifted to the quarantine facility at Samras hostel. On Monday, three other healthcare workers identified as male nurse Imran Pathan (36), Shabnam Ansari (29), a female nurse, and Viral Dyanda (25) tested positive. All were shifted to the New Civil Hospital from the government quarantine facility after they showed symptoms of the virus. Other two healthcare staff members admitted in the NCH after they too showed symptoms of virus on Monday. Along with the Lokhat staffers, 19-year-old Rakesh Javre, a resident of SUDA Awas in Vesu, tested positive. His is the son of Lata Javre, a housemaid, who tested positive on Sunday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/surat-hospital-a-containment-zone/articleshow/75130904.cms||Melvyn Thomas
April 14, 2020||Hyderabad||Zoonoses must be dealt with on a war footing, says ICMR||Hyderabad: Even as serious efforts are on to find a vaccine to treat the novel coronavirus, researchers at the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) and experts have called for an integrated disease surveillance approach on both humans and animals. Agreeing that lack of proper knowledge on zoonotic diseases is pushing the researchers on the back foot, experts said a large number of human infectious diseases are caused by animals or transmitted (60%) from animals. ICMR researchers also suggest that animal and public health authorities should collaborate to develop protocols for evidence-based surveillance. Former director (communicable diseases), WHO South-East Asia region, Rajesh Bhatia said one of the key reasons for the epidemics to spread rapidly is the delay in early detection of the virus owing to weak surveillance and lack of human-animal interface. “Non-availability of specific anti-viral vaccines at the time of a pandemic makes matters worse," he said. Recalling that H1N1 virus, Avian flu, SARS, MERS and Nipah are perfect examples of zoonotic diseases, Bhatia said many of these viruses originated from animals caused a pandemic leading to substantial mortality, social chaos and huge economic loss. Bhatia’s paper was published in ICMR on March 27 which spoke about human-animal interface for rapid detection and response to coronavirus infections. Joining the issue, PV Narasimha Rao Telangana State Veterinary University professor ST Viroji Rao told TOI, "We have very limited access to database on zoonotic diseases. Also, this information is not properly shared or discussed with doctors who deal with human health. We must have a common strategy to deal with zoonotic diseases." Experts pointed out that the Integrated Disease Surveillance Programme (ISDP) of Union ministry of family welfare and health had failed to address the issue of sharing of information with veterinarians and doctors. Highlighting as to how lack of information exchange has often led to spread of diseases from animals to humans, Viroji Rao said, “In north coastal Andhra Pradesh, anthrax-infected cattle are slaughtered and its meat is eaten by tribals. This led to the spread of disease among locals in Visakhapatnam Agency.” Viroji Rao said ‘brucellosis’ virus causes abortion in animals. “But, pet clinics do not maintain a database or interested in collecting information on the disease among dogs and cats. Pet animals can transmit leptospirosis and several other diseases," he warned. He added, "Companion animals cannot transmit a disease like Covid-19. WHO and Indian Veterinary Association have clearly stated that companion animals do not transmit virus to humans," he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/zoonoses-must-be-dealt-with-on-a-war-footing-says-icmr/articleshow/75130898.cms||U Sudhakar Reddy
April 14, 2020||Goa||CM: Goans united, survey getting positive response||Panaji: Chief minister Pramod Sawant on Monday said that the government has received positive response from the people on the first day of the three-day door-to-door survey to identify persons with Covid-19 symptoms. “We are getting positive and huge response for the community survey. Goans are united in the fight against Covid-19 and together we will root it out from our state. If we find anybody with Covid-19 symptoms then we will conduct tests on them,” Sawant said. The survey has covered more than two lakh people, he said. The surveyors are not facing any issues during the survey. “People are voluntarily disclosing information,” he said. Around 7,000 trained booth level officers (BLOs), government employees, teachers of government and government-aided schools, anganwadi workers, booth-level officers and ANM staff are involved in the house-to-house survey asking people six questions prepared by the health department. The chief minister said that based on the survey results, the government will be able to declare Goa as a safe zone. “Our surveyors don’t have information about those staying in industrial areas, but with the help of IDC staff we will cover those areas,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/cm-goans-united-survey-getting-positive-response/articleshow/75130896.cms||---
April 14, 2020||Mumbai||‘Happy hypoxia’ makes Covid-19 cases tricky||MUMBAI: Here is one of the reasons Covid-19 has emerged as a major killer: patients deteriorate quickly and collapse. After attending to over 2,000 patients and witnessing 160 deaths, the state’s experts have prepared a dossier of sorts on the virus and its ‘novel’ manifestations and attacks. It is by now well accepted that 85% to 90% of corona patients have mild to non - existent symptoms (fever, cough or breathlessness). The public health department is worried not only because the virus is new and little is known about it, but the case fatality rate here is highest in the country at 6.85%. The dossier is an effort to list all the novel symptoms. If the virus behaves benignly in 85-90% patients, it’s tricky in the rest. The change in their health parameters could be rapid. At first, they seem to have ‘happy hypoxia’— a state where body’s oxygen concentration gets lower (to about 60%) but not so low that patients feel uncomfortable. They can behave normally till they deteriorate rapidly and collapse.Maharashtra’s recovery rate, too, is far behind other states. Compared to Kerala’s recovery rate of 53% or Karnataka’s 24.6%, Maharashtra’s current rate oscillates between 10% and 11%. “Several cases have been seen in Pune where the patient is laughing and talking just before deteriorating and dying in the next few hours,” said Dr Subhash Salunkhe, technical advisor to the state chief secretary. On Monday, deaths and treatment outcomes were a point of discussion in a videoconferencing meet between CM Uddhav Thackeray, the chief secretary, medical heads and several doctors. “Some concerns around classification of hospitals, treatment and diagnostics were discussed. Over the next few days, broad uniform treatment guidelines will be distributed in the state,” he said. Another senior official said, “The need for the meeting was felt because we have to firm up our treatment plans. The fact is that a stable patient with oxygen saturation of more than 90% de-saturates rapidly and collapses.” It is felt Covid-19 patients behave differently than routine ARDS (acute respiratory distress syndrome) patients who need ventilator support. ARDS or respiratory failure can be caused by many bacteria or viruses, while here it is caused by just one virus. This subset of Covid-19 patients needs ventilator support. The doctors have also noticed weakened heart and kidney function among this group. An autopsy of six patients showed inflamed heart tissues, said the document. Infectious disease expert Dr Om Srivastava said the involvement of the heart needs to be studied in detail. “It also needs to be seen whether it is something typical to patients in Maharashtra,” he said, adding environmental conditions of the state too must be taken into consideration. Patients are given immunity boosters and drugs to reduce viral build-up. These medicines include antimalarial medication hydroxychloroquine (HCQS), antibiotic azithromycin and antiviral lopinavir/ritonavir. Many are also given zinc supplementation along with vitamin C, A and D. “As drugs such as HCQS, azithromycin and lopinavir can lead to disturbances in heart rhythms, patients may need daily ECG monitoring,” said a senior government official. The state has noted than antiviral drugs used for HIV such as lopinavir and ritonavir have not shown any “statistically significant mortality benefit”, hence they may be used only when HCQS cannot be given.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/happy-hypoxia-makes-covid-19-cases-tricky/articleshow/75131337.cms||Sumitra Debroy
April 14, 2020||Hyderabad||Drug companies seize opportunity to regain global API dominance||HYDERABAD: The Covid-19 pandemic may have strengthened India’s position as pharmacy of the world as countries make a beeline for supplies of critical drugs like hydroxychloquine sulfate to battle the outbreak, but it has also brought home Indian pharma’s over-dependence on China for key active pharmaceutical ingredients (APIs) and raw materials. “Till 1990’s we had global dominance in API sector but then China started promoting its API sector by giving huge incentives and built large scale plants, making Chinese manufacturers 20-30% cheaper than Indian players, especially in fermentation-based products. So, Indian companies started moving away from APIs, which had become a commodity market. But later China started increasing prices gradually. Today with this situation everyone has realised the importance of diversified supply chain system and healthcare security,” said Sudarshan Jain, secretary general, Indian Pharmaceutical Alliance, which represents the country’s biggest pharma players. Bulk Drugs Manufacturers Association of India (BDMAI) president VV Krishna Reddy, said India has significant dependence on China for its requirements and will take at least 2-3 years to regain lost ground. “Nearly 60-70% of raw materials for APIs come from China, including fermentation-based APIs like penicillin derivatives, vitamins and certain intermediates for manufacturing antibiotics like Ciprofloxacin and Azithromycin. It’s right time for India to regain its lost edge,” said Reddy. However, Dr Reddy’s Laboratories co-chairman and MD, GV Prasad said Indian pharma sector had already begun rebuilding its API capacities in past couple of years due to various issues with supplies from China and Centre’s booster package is expected to accelerate the process. In March, Centre announced Rs 13,000 crore package to make India self-reliant in bulk drugs. “Indian players began rebuilding API and bulk drugs capacities over the past couple of years after explosions took place in chemical clusters in China and prices of raw materials started firming up. In some products they (China) will still be very cost effective but in next 2-3 years Indian pharma should be able to considerably reduce its dependence on China,” Prasad said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/drug-cos-seize-opportunity-to-regain-global-api-dominance/articleshow/75130911.cms||Swati Bharadwaj
April 14, 2020||Meerut||Former UP minister’s son booked, arrested for misbehaving with cops during lockdown||Meerut: Kartikeya Rana, son of former Uttar Pradesh minister Rajendra Rana of Samajwadi Party, was booked under relevant sections, after he allegedly misbehaved with staff of the police station in their locality. According to sources, Kartikeya and his friends were in a park outside his home, when a police patrol caught them and asked them to get inside. This irked Rana and his group, who got into a verbal altercation with a constable. As the altercation intensified, reinforcements from the local police station were called in and the matter was settled for the time being after senior officials intervened. Later, an FIR against Kartikeya was registered at Sadar Bazar police station, based on the complaint of a constable. “He started misbehaving and attacked cops, who were trying to enforce lockdown. He has been arrested,” said Saharanpur SSP Dinesh Kumar P. Kartikeya, though, had a completely different version of the event. “A man was on his way to fetch milk, when patrolling cops on a motorcycle began assaulting him. I was standing at my balcony and decided to intervene. The cops began misbehaving with me. Finally, they accepted their mistake, apologised and left,” Kartikeya said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/meerut/former-up-ministers-son-booked-arrested-for-misbehaving-with-cops-during-lockdown/articleshow/75130235.cms||---
April 14, 2020||Ludhiana||Elderly couple left stranded after quarantined, then testing negative||Ludhiana: Kamlesh (62) and Narinder Pal (72), residents of Harnam Nagar, Model Town, are yet to recover from the trauma they had to undergo while they were quarantined in a facility in Noida. The elderly couple was travelling back from Australia via Bangkok and landed at the Delhi airport at 11pm on March 21, after visiting their daughter. The hours spent at the airport were absolute horror as they were made to stand in long queues, where there were around 20,000 to 25,000 people and no norm of safe distancing was followed. Rather, they were pushed and shoved against each other. She shares, “This continued all night and we were dead tired. Around 10am the next morning we were asked to collect our luggage, and move towards counter no. 12, where the police, which had our passports, would call out our names and thereby, we would then proceed towards the place where many doctors were sitting. All we were doing is juggling between different doctors, who didn’t even check our temperature.” She continued, “Later, we were sent to a room where some other doctors were sitting. We were straightaway told to board the bus that would take us to the facility, where we were to be quarantined. Also, the people who were young were just stamped and told to leave but as we were above 60 years of age we had to follow the protocol. While, many people opted for hotels as they could afford it, but since we had limited money at hand, we had no option but to go to the facility”. She added that during all this not a single screening or swab collection was done and not their temperature was not checked even once. Also, even after repeated questioning on how would they commute back to Ludhiana once the period of quarantine was over, the people in charge made false promise that it would be the responsibility of the government to drop them back. On reaching the facility in Noida, which is newly built she was horrified at the conditions there. “I don’t want to recall my stay there as the conditions were absolute disaster. We were made to stay in a hall, which had 15 beds and two bathrooms. The condition of the washrooms was horrendous. Overflowing water, clogged toilet seats, we have seen it all. The worse was when we had to clean the toilets as there was no staff provided to do this. Also, the mosquitos made our life hell. After creating a lot of ruckus, we were provided with a mosquito repellent, towel and soap.” She said, “The day we reached the facility around 11 am, nothing was given to eat until 5.30pm when tea arrived. From the next morning we were given meals that included poori aalo, pasta and porridge. There were people who had heart condition, diabetes and food allergy, but nothing was considered before giving the meal”. Although they had their temperature checked regularly, it was on April 3, that their Covid test was conducted and they were handed over the reports on April 8, which were negative. They were made to stay in quarantine for 18 days. There were many people who had to continue their stay in the facility as their result was not satisfactory and had to undergo a retest. There were no charges for these tests but still the couple faced issues in the financial matter as well. Kamlesh shares, “We had limited amount of money when we landed in India as we couldn’t withdraw any money from the bank or use the ATM card. But we had in mind that as promised we would be dropped back to Ludhiana or at least some facility would be provided. But we were left stranded after the test came negative. We were told that if we wanted to go, we would have to make our own arrangement. So, we had to hire a cab, which overcharged us and finally we reached home.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/elderly-couple-left-stranded-after-quarantined-then-testing-negative/articleshow/75129273.cms||---
April 14, 2020||Bengaluru||This ambulance driver went where others feared to tread||BENGALURU: His friends and acquaintances in his hometown have disowned him and his family there is petrified. But Ameer Jahn knows his presence in Benglauru is necessary in these dark times. An ambulance driver, Jahn is sure the day is not far off when he can walk into the arms of his waiting wife and two little children. Jahn is among the few ambulance drivers on special duty as part of operations to tackle the outbreak in Bengaluru. He has transported 17 positive patients so far, mostly to Victoria and Bowring hospital. Some he says, were in critical condition. The 33-year-old previously worked as a private bus driver, ferrying passengers from Bengaluru to Chennai and back. Asked how he landed the job as an ambulance driver, Jahn jovially says, “Everyone can’t sit at home during this crisis, right? Someone has to do the essential work.” Late in March, the 108 service sent out text messages seeking drivers to transport Covid patients. While most refused to volunteer fearing infection, Jahn promptly signed up. “On March 28, I discussed the idea with my family in Tipunagar, Chintamani town, Chikkaballapura district and they reluctantly agreed,” he said. “I came straight to Bengaluru and went to the 108 office in Basaveshwaranagar.” Following a day’s training, Jahn was handed keys to an ambulance. His first call came on March 30. “I had to shift a 65-year-old positive patient from a private hospital in Rajajinagar. The man was extremely ill, but there was none to help him as people feared catching the infection. Paramedics and I helped him into the ambulance and I drove him to Victoria hospital,” he said. Workers like Jahn don’t have the luxury of going home every day after work. They have been ordered to stay in temporary staff quarters until the crisis settle. He stays at the leprosy hospital on Magadi Road. “I haven’t gone home since March 28. People in my village have warned me not to return until I can prove I’m virus free. The only time I spend with my family is on video calls,” the driver said. Now, two weeks into his job, Jahn says the case is heartbreaking. One such drive two days ago left him teary-eyed. “I had to ferry an entire family of seven, including two women and two children for medical tests. All through the journey, I silently prayed that they test negative. The results are yet to come,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/this-ambulance-driver-went-where-others-feared-to-tread/articleshow/75130259.cms||Petlee Peter
April 14, 2020||Hyderabad||Not wearing mask when outside home in Khammam can invite Rs 1,000 fine||HYDERABAD: Days after the Telangana government made it mandatory for people to wear face masks while stepping out, some district administrations have begun imposing fines on offenders. Though the government has not made any official announcement on collecting penalties, Khammam district officials said anybody who fails to wear a mask would invite a fine of Rs 1,000. At some other places in the state, local revenue authorities are imposing fines for violating lockdown norms or for not wearing the masks. In Manuguru mandal in Bhadradri-Kothagudem, a gram panchayat imposed a penalty of Rs 100 on a person for roaming on the road without a mask and issued a challan for the amount. Special chief secretary, health and medical, A Santhi Kumari urged the collectors to ensure that people wear masks to help curb the spread of coronavirus. The Odisha government has already imposed a fine of Rs 200 for not wearing masks for the first, second and third offence. The penalty will go up to Rs 500 for subsequent offences. Khammam collector RV Karnan, while urging people to stay indoors, launched a crackdown on first-aid and RMP clinics. In all, 1,515 such clinics were closed. The administration has urged people to visit the local primary health centre if they have any health issues in the wake of Covid-19. While police have been booking cases against violators for spitting in public, a fine of Rs 500 is being imposed on those venturing out. In Metla Chittapur village in Jagtial district, the local gangaputra sangham was fined Rs 500 for selling fish at a public place in violation of the lockdown norms. Meanwhile, in Nalgonda, the authorities have made available an app for people to make requests during the lockdown. Collector Prashant Patil said that through the ‘MeeKosam’ app people can order home delivery of essentials and seek medical assistance. Medical counselling will also be provided.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/not-wearing-mask-when-outside-home-in-khammam-can-invite-rs-1000-fine/articleshow/75130918.cms||Ch Sushil Rao
April 14, 2020||Surat||Liquor-addict fishing boat worker ends life||Surat: Depressed over not getting liquor due to lockdown, a 32-year-old khalasi (helper) on fishing boat, allegedly committed suicide in Amari village of Navsari. Hitesh Rathod, a resident of Valsad, had returned from Okha along with other fishermen on March 25 and all were strictly asked to stay home quarantined. After his quarantine period ended on April 11, he went to stay with his relatives in Amari for few days. “Rathod was addicted to country liquor, but he was unable to find it anywhere. He was depressed and started getting severe withdrawal symptoms,” said PP Brahmbhatt, police inspector, Navsari rural. On Sunday, he was found hanging in the house of his relatives.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/liquor-addict-fishing-boat-worker-ends-life/articleshow/75130916.cms||---
April 14, 2020||Goa||Carmona asks CM to bring sailors back||Margao: Carmona sarpanch Alwyn Jorge on Monday wrote to CM Pramod Sawant urging him to take immediate steps to bring back Goan seafarers stranded abroad or on ships. “A seafarer being alone and away from his house and family goes through enormous amount of stress and under the present situation the seafarer will go through hardship and mental torture. This issue has to be taken by your government on top priority basis with the external affairs ministry so that precious time is not wasted thereby allowing the seafarers’ condition to deteriorate further,” the letter reads. Earlier, the Chinchinim-Deussua panchayat had also taken up the issue with the government.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/carmona-asks-cm-to-bring-sailors-back/articleshow/75130920.cms||---
April 14, 2020||Meerut||In these unprecedented times, we are learning new skills in real time: Top cops, DMs||Meerut: As the dreaded novel coronavirus inches towards the 10,000 case mark in India, to go with over 300 deaths, for police forces — at the frontlines of the administration’s effort to stem the tide — it’s a never-before experience. “It’s an everyday learning experience for us. We’re trained to catch criminals, which requires a very different approach compared to tracking down a Covid-19 patient or suspect on the run,” said Inspector General of Police (Meerut) Pravin Kumar. In the last one week, there have been a couple of cases in West UP where Covid patients or suspects escaped from isolation/quarantine centres, the most sensational being the escape of 65-year-old Covid-19 patient from a Baghpat facility. It led to the biggest manhunt in recent times, with several police teams swinging into action to nab the person. “After a high-octane chase lasting 13 hours, we tracked him to a brick kiln 3 km from the quarantine facility in Khekra of Baghpat. But the real challenge came later,” said Kumar. He added, “The patient was right in front of us, but we couldn’t touch him as he carried the infection. At one point, he even started to run. We could only watch him from a distance. Our force is not trained for such a situation. But then, we counseled him from a distance, and it worked,” added Kumar. In Bulandshahr district, agitated by the delay in test results of her husband, a woman created a huge ruckus and took her husband, a Covid-19 suspect, back home. “We’re learning lessons in real time. It’s more of a psychological warfare against the virus,” he said. Ramit Sharma, Inspector General (Moradabad), said, “Every day, new challenges appear in this unprecedented scenario. While equipping our force with the technical and psychological knowhow to deal with such situations, we need to be careful. We provide them with counseling by experts, lecture them on standard operating procedures, show them short videos, etc. However, we can’t overload them with such information as it would lead to enormous amount of stress upon them, hampering the fight against the virus. So a balanced approach is the need of the hour, as both those infected and those trying to prevent the spread of the infection are under stress.” In Ghaziabad, district magistrate Ajay Shankar Pandey said, “Our counselors try to showcase a positive picture to patients. We had 27 positive cases, of which three got treated and were sent home. Another three have shown negative symptoms. This is a message we try to spread among patients. The result so far is good.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/meerut/in-these-unprecedented-times-we-are-learning-new-skills-in-real-time-top-cops-dms/articleshow/75130249.cms||Sandeep Rai
April 14, 2020||Hyderabad||Expats demand flights to India||HYDERABAD: UAE offered to fly home citizens of all countries who wish to return if they test negative for Covid-19. K Shamshudeen said Emirates airlines offered special flights for nationals of many countries including India, but the Indian government has not yet given landing permission. “Kerala government offered to keep all returnees under quarantine. If the Indian government permits citizens to come back from Gulf countries, other states can follow Kerala model.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/expats-demand-flights-to-india/articleshow/75130936.cms||---
April 14, 2020||Hyderabad||Telangana: Opposition parties plan meeting tomorrow||HYDERABAD: Telangana Pradesh Congress Committee (TPCC) president and Nalgonda MP N Uttam Kumar Reddy said on Monday that a meeting of all the opposition parties would be convened on April 15 to discuss the coronavirus situation in the state and review the measures taken by the government to help people during the lockdown. At the meeting of the TPCC task force committee on Covid-19 here, Uttam along with the committee’s chairman Marri Shashidhar Reddy discussed issues pertaining to the relief works undertaken by the Congress workers. A video conference was held with the district party leaders. Lashing out at the huge delay and several discrepancies during the distribution of free rice, Uttam said that none in the state received the promised Rs 1,500 financial assistance. Even the migrant workers are yet to get the 10 kg rice and Rs 500 cash announced by chief minister K Chandrasekhar Rao. Uttam said he will write to KCR and chief secretary Somesh Kumar on the condition of people affected by the lockdown.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/oppn-parties-plan-meeting-tomorrow/articleshow/75130932.cms||---
April 14, 2020||Lucknow||Jailed foreign tourists had stayed at TJ HQ: UP Police||LUCKNOW: A day after 17 foreign participants of Nizamuddin markaz comprising 10 Indonesians and seven Thais were imprisoned in Bahraich, police tracked their trajectory after they touched down in Delhi between February and March. The Tablighi contingent from Indonesia reached Delhi on a tourist visa on February 5 and camped at the markaz headquarters between February 15 and 21. Similarly, seven Thai missionaries visited India on a tourist visa on March 3 and stayed at the Nizamuddin markaz from March 4-8. The twin Tablighi contingents then travelled over 600km by road to UP’s Bahraich district, bordering Nepal. While the group of seven from Thailand hid at Taj mosque, 10 Indonesians put up at Quraish mosque in the district. Superintendent of police, Bahraich, Vipin Mishra, said several religious texts were seized from both groups and police are tracing their local contacts. “We will also be detaining locals, who suppressed information of foreigners staying in mosques,” said Mishra. Of the 17 foreign Jamaatis, only one from each group could communicate in English while others spoke their native language, said police. For religious teaching, the Thai and Indonesian groups used books with symbols and Arabic translations, which were also recovered from their possession. “Most members were in the age-group of 30-50. Their past travel history to Bahraich or other Indian cities will be probed. They are also being questioned about their local contacts in India and whom they met before reaching Bahraich,” said the police officer. He also said it was necessary to bust the chain of middlemen who guide foreigners on tourist visas to conduct religious work, which is illegal. The officer also said a detailed report on their arrest have been sent to embassies of Indonesia and Thailand through intelligence agencies.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/jailed-foreign-tourists-had-stayed-at-tj-hq-up-police/articleshow/75131353.cms||---
April 14, 2020||Delhi||Coronavirus red zones in Delhi expand to 49||NEW DELHI: Six new areas were added to the red zones in the capital on Monday taking the total number of containment zones to 49. While these places were sealed, the areas around them were declared orange zones paving the way for an extensive sanitisation exercise. In the past 24 hours, 356 new Covid-19 positive cases have been recorded. The total number till date is 1,510. Balaji Apartments at Sant Nagar in Burari, the area in and around A-1B/75A Krishna Apartment in Paschim Vihar, A-280 JJ Colony in Madipur and 36/4 in East Patel Nagar were four of the places declared red zones. Two areas in South district were also marked red, but the names were not disclosed till late on Monday. The district administration of these areas have sealed them to check the spread of novel coronavirus. Till Sunday, there were 43 containment zones. House numbers 97 to 107 and 120 to 127 in Kailash Hills, East of Kailash were converted into containment zones, while E-Block (E-284 to E-294) and house numbers 53 to 55 and 25, Shera Mohalla were also sealed. Areas are marked red after Covid-19 positive cases are found there. People residing there are put under strict observation and monitored for symptoms of the disease. Containment zones have been created in South, Southwest, Southeast, East, North, Central, Shahdara, New Delhi, and West districts, while no red zone exists in Northwest and Northeast districts as of now. With each red zone, an orange or buffer zone is also created. “In case street number 5 is declared a containment zone, street numbers 4 and 6 are converted into orange zones,” a source explained. All the containment zones have been completely sealed. The entry and exit gates have been barricaded and policemen have been deployed there to ensure no outsider enters and no one leaves the area. The government has made special arrangements for supply of essential services like vegetables, food and medicines to those staying within the sealed areas. An extensive sanitisation exercise is being carried out by urban local bodies within the red zones. People who came in contact with Covid-19 positive cases are being traced. All of them will be screened and tested. A government official said that the orange zones are also under surveillance. “Though there is no restriction on movement like in red zones, the health of those living in orange zones is being monitored. The government is also focusing on sanitisation and social distancing in the orange zones so that the spread of novel coronavirus can be doubled-checked,” said a government source.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/corona-red-zones-in-delhi-expand-to-49/articleshow/75131365.cms||AlokKNMishra
April 14, 2020||Dehradun||U’khand bans movement of mahouts outside reserves to prevent Covid-19 infection among animals||Dehradun: To prevent any possibility of elephants catching the coronavirus infection, Uttarakhand forest department has barred all mahouts (those who work with, ride, and tend to an elephant) in the state from going out of the limits of the reserve (Corbett or Rajaji) in which they are currently deployed. Speaking on the matter, Rajiv Bhartari, chief wildlife warden of Uttarakhand forest department, told TOI, “As a precautionary measure, we have decided to restrict the mahouts from moving out of the reserves.This is being done to protect them and wild animals from coronavirus.” The mahouts are also being closely monitored for signs of any infection , the official added. The state has 26 elephants tendered by as many mahouts and majority of them are from Assam. The two tiger reserves — Corbett and Rajaji — have 16 and 6 elephants respectively. The other four private jumbos are under the custody of state forest department as per a high court order. Also, more than a hundred wild elephants are present in the state along with other wild animals like tigers, leopards, and deer, among others. Additionally, all tourism activities are suspended inside the national parks/reserves from mid-March to keep all the animals protected from the virus. “Any sick employee will have to undergo necessary medical tests to ensure that they do not have Covid-19,” Bhartari said. Meanwhile, sanitisation drives are also being carried out at the elephant camps of the two reserves. “We have started sanitisation of elephants and their camps at Dhikala and Kalagarh. For tigers and other wild animals, we are still mulling upon ways to keep a close watch on them and track their health status,” said Rahul, director of Corbett Tiger Reserve, who uses only his first name.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/ukhand-bans-movement-of-mahouts-outside-reserves-to-prevent-covid-19-infection-among-animals/articleshow/75130251.cms||Shivani Azad
April 14, 2020||Meerut||Residents of Amroha colony self-seal locality to keep corona away||Bijnor: After seven Covid-19 positive cases surfaced in Amroha district, residents of Hasanpur Kasba have decided to self-seal their colony.A team of 12 men is manning all the three entry points in the locality round-the-clock to prevent any outsider from entering.Residents said they have blocked all the entry points as there is no other way to save themselves from the pandemic.Soures said about 2,000 people reside in Hasanpur Kasba. The residents said seven people have so far tested positive for Covid-19 -- two in Amroha city's Chowk mohalla, two in Gajraula and one from Joya, Besides, two Gujarat-based Jamaatis also tested positive in Amroha district.So far, four locations have been sealed in the district by the administration as a precautionary measure.Now, residents of Hasanpur Kasba have taken upon themselves to adopt all precautions to prevent the infection from spreading.Several teams of residents have been formed to guard the colony.According to Chandan Prajapati, a member of the municipal body, "Several cases of coronavirus have surfaced in the district. There is panic among the residents. Prevention is better than cure. That is why, we have several teams who guard the colony in shifts. The entry of outsiders has been banned. Even movement of residents in the colony has been restricted. They are not being allowed to go out. They are granted permission only after they have a solid reason to go out."Rajpal Singh, a resident and district vice-president of BJP, said, "The entire country has been put under lockdown. Some people are violating it by loitering about without any reason. Coronavirus can be curbed only if we stay at home and maintain social distance. Even vendors are not allowed in.They sell their goods outside that residencial area. People purchase vegetables and otber essentials from them by keeping a distance from them."Taking a cue from Hasanpur Kasba, in Bijnor, residents of Geeta Nagari and Mannupuram have closed all entry points of their colonies. According to Nrapendra Deshwal, "We have banned entry of all outsiders. The residents come out of their houses only for purchasing essentials. Colony's gate have been barricaded."Bijnor police has launched a 'Fight Corona' Facebook page through which superintendent of police is solving problems of the residents. He has invited information from locals about suspected corona cases on the Facebook page. Over 10,000 people are following this page.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/meerut/residents-of-amroha-colony-self-seal-locality-to-keep-corona-away/articleshow/75130254.cms||Harveer Dabas
April 14, 2020||Goa||Sandbags left behind by shacks pose danger to beach ecology||COLVA: With the tourism season prematurely cut short due to the coronavirus pandemic, most of the beach shacks may have been dismantled already, but the sandbags placed on their periphery remain where they were stacked. Sandbags are used as a form of reinforcement for shacks, to hold back the rising sea, tides, frequent storms, squalls and cyclones. The failure of shack owners to remove the sandbags, and the tourism department’s failure to maintain the beach and enforce coastal regulation zone (CRZ) rules, is endangering and damaging beaches, experts say. For sand bagging, cement bags are filled with sand and then stacked. Cement bags are made up primarily of three components, virgin material, plastic masterbatches and a UV coating, making them non-biodegradable. Ex-scientist at the National Institute of Oceanography (NIO) Antonio Mascarenhas said that using plastic on beaches is in blatant violation of CRZ rules. “The sandbags have collapsed as they are woven with thin threads. It is important to note that this has happened in fair weather and that there is no evidence of any wave activity. The area appears disturbed as the cement bags are shattered, probably because of the heat of the sun that has pulverized the threads or due to deflation by wind action or maybe, due to footfalls,” he said. While granting permission for shacks in 2019, the then tourism director, Sanjiv Gadkar, had made it amply clear that shack owners would be allowed to use sandbags, but they would have to clear them at the end of the season or action would be initiated. Now, current director Menino D’Souza has said that his department will carry out their inspection only after the season officially ends and all shacks are dismantled, and that defaulters will be booked for CRZ violations. Mascarenhas said it is well-established that any interference in the wave run-up drastically alters the profile of the beach. “While structures such as sandbags enhance sand erosion, the bigger impact is that their microfibers are now scattered on the sand. Once hit by the waves, these will enter the marine domain, be ingested by fish and ultimately find their way onto our plates,” he said. “Microplastics are the biggest threat to marina fauna and unfortunately, it is happening right in front of our eyes.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/sandbags-left-behind-by-shacks-pose-danger-to-beach-ecology/articleshow/75130940.cms||Nisser Dias
April 14, 2020||Goa||Day-1 of survey sees courteous residents, long walks in the sun||Panaji: The first day of the state government’s house-to-house Covid-19 survey was a mixed bag for the government staffers assigned to collect data — while teachers found most citizens cooperating with them, others, in more rural areas, had to battle the scorching summer covering up to 10km by foot. “No one is refusing to work. The teachers are just afraid for their health and life,” a Ponda-based teacher told TOI. “Now, should these 7,000 teachers remain isolated from their family members for the next 14 days at home? They have been outdoors throughout the day, and will be outside for the next two days too.” One teacher reported being confronted by a panch in Salcete, who asked to be shown the teachers’ authority letter from the government to carry out the survey. Also in Salcete, another teacher reported having come across a family who had been home quarantined. However, since no marking was done by the government at the residence, the teachers were left exposed to the family members. “Teachers faced great difficulty carrying out this work in the summer heat,” one said. “Those allotted rural areas had to walk up to ten kilometers in some cases, as the houses in these areas, though few, are located far apart.” Another teacher, who was allotted an area in Mormugao, said that they feared for their health as those being surveyed in migrant-dominated areas did not maintain social distancing. “The migrants were crowding around us, and language too was an issue while communicating with them,” said one surveyor. “There were no security personnel provided for our safety, to help maintain social distancing, or to tackle the crowd if there was a problem. Most families these days have smartphones, they could easily have filled the form online and the survey could have been carried out only in pockets were residents do not have facilities like smartphones or internet connectivity, rather than risking the lives of hundreds of us teachers.” Teachers also said that in many areas in Goa, there are only elderly residents in the household, with whom it was a challenge to communicate.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/day-1-of-survey-sees-courteous-residents-long-walks-in-the-sun/articleshow/75131343.cms||Gauree Malkarnekar
April 14, 2020||Mumbai||Palghar: Three workers die in sanitiser factory blast at Tarapur||MUMBAI: Three workers were killed and one injured in a blast at a chemical factory in Tarapur MIDC around 11.30 am on Monday. More than 65 workers were at the site when the blast occurred at Galaxy Surfactants, which processes raw material for sanitizers. While most factories in the MIDC zone are shut owing to the lockdown, Galaxy had obtained permission from the Palghar collector and started operations on Monday. An official from Boisar MIDC police station said that Sameer Khoja (48) from Palghar and Vijay Sawant (44) from Boisar died on the spot while Runal Raut died while being taken to a hospital in Mumbai. The injured, Akhil Raut, is undergoing treatment at a hospital in Boisar.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/3-workers-die-in-sanitiser-factory-blast-at-tarapur/articleshow/75131361.cms||---
April 14, 2020||Meerut||UP couple name their son Sanitizer as Covid-19 triggers naming spree||MEERUT: Born in the midst of coronavirus scare, a baby boy in UP’s Saharanpur was named Sanitizer by his parents. It comes days after a couple in Chhattisgarh named their newborn twins Corona and Covid, while in UP’s Basti district, a child was named Lockdown. The trend of using keywords related to novel coronavirus as names of newborn is picking up in parts of the country. According to Saharanpur couple, they got the "inspiration" after Prime Minister Narendra Modi and chief minister Yogi Adityanath appealed to everyone to use hand sanitizers, which has been instrumental in the fight against the Covid-19 outbreak. "This is my way to contribute to the efforts taken by Prime Minister Narendra Modi and the government. Sanitizer is helping us fight coronavirus, so I named my child after it," said Omveer Singh, the delighted father of the newborn. A resident of Vijay Vihar locality in Saharanpur, Omveer has two daughters. He was blessed with the baby boy on Sunday. Last week, a newborn in UP’s Basti district was named Lockdown by his parents. The family said they named him so because they do not want any child to be born under such a difficult condition. While in Chhattisgarh capital Raipur, twins-- a boy and a girl-- were named Corona and Covid. According to parents, the twins symbolise triumph over hardships, as they were born during the ongoing nationwide lockdown which has disrupted normal life.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/meerut/up-couple-name-their-son-sanitizer-as-covid-19-triggers-naming-spree/articleshow/75130264.cms||---
April 14, 2020||Ludhiana||Civil hospital decides to again shift flu corners||Ludhiana: Lord Mahavira Civil Hospital will shift the flu corner for screening of patients of both suspected cases of Covid-19 and seasonal flu to its the old place from Tuesday. Earlier, the flu corner was at the entrance of the civil hospital with two windows open. One window was meant for queues of both genders, where patients could register and get themselves diagnosed while the other window was meant to take the related medicines. The decision was taken as a lot of people had started thronging the flu corner made near the isolaton ward of the Covid-19 building. More than 90 people visit flu corner OPD and with each passing day, the flow of patients has been increasing and health department is scared that this may lead to the spread of infection. Besides, most of the people were seen without masks and could be seen violating norms of social distancing. Thus, persons with symptoms of cough, fever and difficulty in breathing were all there in the queues of suspected Covid cases and seasonal flu. After diagnosis of suspected patients, they will be later sent to the isolation ward, where other consultants will investigate their cases further. Also, no family member or attendant will be allowed to stand near the isolation ward. Geeta Kataria, senior medical officer, Covid-19 wing, said, “If cases of Covid-19 are reported from a defined area, the authorities will have the right to implement the following containment measures in order to prevent the spread of the disease. Sealing of the geographical area concerned is also considered. Every one thronging the flu corner near the isolation ward was not justifiable.” ‘Thus, we will be barring entry of people with seasonal flu in the isolation ward area,” she added. Another senior medical officer Ravi Dutt said, “The person who is asymptomatic as per the definition of Covid-19, must be kept in home quarantine for 14 days from the date of exposure. In case the person is symptomatic in a similar case, he will be sent to the isolation ward in a hospital and will be tested for Covid-19. Information of all such cases should be given at the civil surgeon office immediately.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/civil-hospital-decides-to-again-shift-flu-corners/articleshow/75129311.cms||Mehak Jain
April 14, 2020||Lucknow||Barring Class X, XII, all to be promoted in UP||LUCKNOW: In wake of Covid-19 pandemic, the state government on Monday decided to promote all students from class VI to XII to next class, except those who took the class X and XII board examinations in February-March this year. The decision will impact over one crore students studying in classes VI-VIII, IX, and XI in schools recognised by UP Secondary Education Board. An order issued by principal secretary (secondary education) Aradhana Shukla, the decision to promote all students to the next class is to curtail academic session from derailment. The decision comes as a relief for students who were in dilemma waiting for their results. “As the situation worsens, promotion to next class is in the interest of the students. They can now begin studies for their next class,” said RP Mishra, state secretary, UP Madhyamik Shikshak Sangh. Deputy chief minister Dinesh Sharma, who is also the secondary education minister, has issued instructions on beginning of classes through e-learning and whatsApp vitual class from April 20. Students from class VI–VIII can study from the e-content uploaded on the Diksha portal. Earlier, 1.8 crore students from class I-VIII studying in schools recognised by UP Basic Education Council were promoted to the next standard.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/barring-class-x-xii-all-to-be-promoted/articleshow/75131366.cms||---
April 14, 2020||Dehradun||Haldwani jail inmate kills another after argument while watching TV Prashant Jha||Nainital: A 19-year-old Haldwani jail inmate, identified as Shanu was allegedly killed inside the prison late on Sunday by another inmate. Jail officials said that a fight broke out between Shanu and an inmate named Alok while they were watching TV after dinner. Both of them were lodged in the Barrack Number of 1 of the jail and according to eyewitness accounts Alok attacked Shanu and punched him several times in the chest. “Alok punched Shanu several times in the chests as he was trying to recover from the attack, he suddenly collapsed and lost consciousness,” said senior jail superintendent Manoj Arya. As the news of the fight spread, the jail authorities first attended to Shanu. However, as his condition started to worsen the officials first took Shanu to Susheela Tiwari Hospital. However, since it’s a COVID-19 specialist hospital, he was referred to the Base Hospital where he was declared dead. “The doctors pronounced him brought dead at the Base Hospital. We have now sent his body for postmortem and his family has also been informed. The body will be handed over to them once the postmortem is complete,” Arya said. While Shanu, a resident of Bajpur, was lodged in jail after being convicted of the charges of robbery, Alok was serving his term on conviction of the charges of harassment. Alok is a resident of Haldwani. Police have registered a murder case against Alok and are investigating the case. “We are talking to eyewitnesses present in the spot. A murder case under section 302 of the Indian Penal Code (IPC) has already been registered and we are awaiting the postmortem to make progress with the investigation,” said Arya.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/haldwani-jail-inmate-kills-another-after-argument-while-watching-tv-prashant-jha/articleshow/75130256.cms||---
April 14, 2020||Hyderabad||Furnish GOs defining ‘family’ for land compensation: HC to Telangana government||HYDERABAD: The Telangana high court on Monday directed the state government to furnish to the court the copies of three GOs issued by it in April 2019 that allegedly redefined the word ‘family’ contrary to the spirit of the Centre’s 2013 Land Acquisition Act. The central Act defines the family as the parents and minor siblings as one family unit and each major person of the same family as a separate family if he or she crosses the age of 18. They should be accorded a full rehab package. The state’s GOs allegedly show the father as the head of the family who is eligible to receive the compensation and rehabilitation package for the lost land and house while according some solace to the majors in the family. The bench of Chief Justice Raghavendra Singh Chauhan and Justice T Amarnath Goud was hearing pleas from farmers and residents of Mamidyala and Bailampur in Mulugu mandal of Siddipet district who were seeking better compensation for their houses which were under acquisition by the state. The state is constructing the Kondapochampalli reservoir in the area which is part of the Kaleswaram irrigation project. Petitioners’ counsel told the bench that the central Act prescribes that the compensation goes to the person in whose name the property is lying. But that is not the case with rehabilitation. It should go to all the persons who are dependent on the property. Telangana government had determined that Rs 12. 5 lakh cash and 250 square yards of house site as the rehab pack for each dispossessed. An alternative proposal to pay Rs 7.5 lakh and a double-bedroom house in a 250 square yards site was also prepared by the state. We only urge the court that this rehab package is extended to all families in tune with the definition of the new Land Acquisition Act. Telangana Advocate General BS Prasad told the bench the state had formulated a scheme for the purpose and had issued three GOs for the purpose, but a few politically-motivated people did not take the rehab package, the AG said. Petitioners’ counsel complained that these GOs were not put in the public domain. The bench summoned the three GOs and posted the case to April 20.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/furnish-gos-defining-family-for-land-compensation-hc-to-telangana-govt/articleshow/75130939.cms||---
April 14, 2020||Mumbai||Role reversal: Firemen use flammable sprays to sanitize city||Pune: Firemen now have sole responsibility to carry out sanitization in the city. Trained to deal with material and equipment that extinguish blazes, they have been put in charge of handling inflammable material meant for storage and transportation and to be used for spraying. Chief fire officer Prahlad Rahangdale told TOI: “We have never done this job before. Everyone else is doing their regular jobs but we have had to switch places. From extinguishing fires, we are now storing and handling inflammable material and carrying out disinfection and sanitization activities.” Initially, they had to grapple with logistical and storage issues and it took a few days to work out a solution. Now, they are ensuring they have enough stock of two chemicals—sodium hypochlorite and isopropyl alcohol —to last at least six days. Arrangements are also being made to source more material from Vapi and Thane. “We are working with microbiologists and insecticide officers to decide the mixture and chemicals to be used. Only insecticide officers enter the premises of Covid-19 patients for sanitization with a backpack spray,” he said. As their regular fire engines and extinguishers are of little use in the congested slum pockets of Dharavi and elsewhere, they have turned to tractors, mist-blowing machines and hand-held pesticide sprays, usually used by farmers, to conduct sanitization activities. The solid waste management department shared their stock of five multiple jet injector machines and tractors, but it was not enough. Mahindra & Mahindra gave six tractors and six machines. These 11 machines and tractors are now stationed in eastern and western suburbs and Mumbai city areas, Rahangdale told TOI. The fire brigade also uses its own quick response vehicle (QRV) trucks, which could be put to use because they have steel tanks; storing the two chemicals had earlier posed a challenge as these require steel tanks. Companies later came forward to donate the required material. These QRVs can navigate the narrow lanes of Dharavi and other slums. Since the vehicles have a small storage capacity, the department decided to provide a backup of fire engines. This ensured a larger distance could be covered on a single trip. But it also meant that more manpower had to be deployed on one vehicle. However, six quick response teams have been kept on standby. The sanitization activities are being carried out in containment areas, hospitals, police stations and designated market areas. The equipment and chemical to be used is decided in consultation with the health department and solid waste management teams. Till April 7, the fire department had sanitized 21,852 premises.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/role-reversal-firemen-use-flammable-sprays-to-sanitize-city/articleshow/75130281.cms||---
April 14, 2020||Dehradun||Ration dealer held for selling goods meant for poor||Almora: Almora police on Monday arrested a ration dealer of a fair price shop (FPS). Police have alleged that Rahul Pant, the owner of the shop at Sai Mandir, Ranidhara, has illegally sold ration which was for distribution to the poor, to Anup Singh, the owner of a general store. On the complaint of the local people, police raided thegeneral store in Almora’s NTD on Friday and recovered 9 bags of rice, which was for free distribution to the poor during lockdown. Police arrested Anup Singh on Friday and after interrogation, Rahul Pant was arrested on Monday. Arun Kumar Verma, inspector in-charge of Almora Kotwali, confirmed the arrest of Pant while talking to TOI. “Rahul Pant is a ration dealer of an FPS in Ranidhara since 2004. We have found evidence that to make a profit he had illegally sold the ration allocated for distribution to the poor to a general store of NTD. He has been arrested and the necessary action is being taken,” Verma said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/ration-dealer-held-for-selling-goods-meant-for-poor/articleshow/75130273.cms||Rohit Joshi
April 14, 2020||Hyderabad||Telangana: Consumers to pay amount equal to March ’19 power bill||HYDERABAD: Energy minister G Jagadish Reddy on Monday said power bills are being collected during lockdown on the directions of the Telangana State Electricity Regulatory Commission (TSERC) and will be adjusted next month after taking the actual meter readings. Consumers will have to pay bill based on their March, 2019, readings. “Since meter readers cannot take readings now, power utilities have asked all consumers to pay last March bill and accordingly messages have been sent to all consumers. It is likely some consumers may pay 15 to 20% more than their actual usage. However, if any consumer is found to have been paid excess than the actual usage (as per TSERC order), it will be adjusted in the next month’s bill,” the minister said. Power bills raised for low tension (LT) sector in Southern Power Distribution Company Limited (TSSPDCL) was Rs 620 crore, while it was Rs 203 crore in Northern Power Distribution Company Limited (TSNPDCL), he said. The minister, who reviewed the power situation in the state with officials on Monday, said 40% of consumers in TSSPDCL, which includes Greater Hyderabad and some other districts, have been paying bills online. “For commercial consumers, the discoms have taken actual reading from 10,700 units and sent them bills. “Small commercial units also have to pay 50% of their March, 2019 bills, which will be adjusted in the next bill,” Jagadish Reddy said. He said the department had expected the power demand would touch 13,500 MW due to regular and agriculture power demand, but it was just 7,800 MW. In 2019, the power demand for the same period was 8,900 MW. Jagadish Reddy said the power department was making every effort to supply uninterrupted power to consumers, especially domestic consumers. “There were major power disruptions even during the recent spells of rain and the problems are being attended to within no time,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/consumers-to-pay-amount-equal-to-march-19-power-bill/articleshow/75130944.cms||---
April 14, 2020||Meerut||With 24 fresh cases, Saharanpur’s count of Covid-19 patients jumps to 56||Meerut: As many as 24 fresh cases surfaced in Saharanpur on Monday pushing the district’s tally of Covid-19 positive patients to 56 in one go. Meanwhile, Baghpat also recorded seven fresh cases taking the district’s tally to 14. Neighbouring Meerut, Bijnor and Hapur districts added three more positive cases each in their kitty. While Shamli also added three fresh cases and the total number of positive cases are 17 now. Bulandshahr has two more positive cases while Muzaffarnagar got one. Amroha got two more positive cases taking the district’s tally to nine. With these fresh cases, Meerut has a total of 59 novel coronavirus patients in the district. Saharanpur has 56 and Bijnor has 4. While Muzaffarnagar has seven positive patients, Hapur has nine and Bulandshahr 13. Dr Raj Kumar, Meerut’s chief medical officer (CMO), said, “As many as three cases tested positive for coronavirus on Monday. While one is a Jharkhand resident who was quarantined at Subharti Medical College, two others were traced from Purva Faiyaz Ali area in Meerut and are contacts of Jamaatis.” Meanwhile, 36 out of the total 166 Covid-19 suspects, who were quarantined at Subharti Medical College, were discharged on Monday after they completed their 14-day quarantine period and tested negative. Dr BS Sodhi, Saharanpur CMO, said, “According to the reports received from Lucknow, 24 new cases have reported positive. All are Jamaatis. Contact tracing of the said people is being done and their treatment is on. Apart from these 24, another case tested positive, but it was repeat testing so it is not added to the total count.” With the fresh 24 cases, the total tally of Saharanpur reached 56, including 12 who are admitted in Lucknow. Dr KN Tiwari, Bulandshahr CMO, said, “The wife and son of the doctor who died of Covid-19 in Delhi, have tested positive and continue to remain under quarantine in Delhi. With the two new cases, the tally of the district has reached 13, out of which one has died.” Dr Vijay Kumar Yadav, Bijnor CMO, said, “A 32-year-old Seohara resident from Bijnor has tested positive here. Meanwhile, samples of two suspected cases have been sent for retesting. He is quarantined in Haldaur and is being treated.” With this, Bijnor’s tally became five. Amit Singh, additional district magistrate (enforcement), Muzaffarnagar, said, “One person has tested positive for coronavirus on Monday, taking the total tally to seven. He is a Jamaat member and was traced from Kidwai Nagar. Sanitisation and contact tracing has been launched in the area.” With an additional case, Muzaffarnagar district tally became seven here. Hapur district magistrate Aditi Singh, said, “Out of the total 103 test reports received, three persons have tested positive, taking total to nine in the district. Dotai, Sherpur and Kurana villages are being sealed. All of them are Jamaat members.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/meerut/with-24-fresh-cases-saharanpurs-count-of-covid-19-patients-jumps-to-56/articleshow/75130271.cms||Ishita Bhatia
April 14, 2020||Goa||Masterchef lockdown: Goa kids don aprons, impress online||PANAJI: In mid-March, as fears around Covid-19 infections were beginning to grow, a couple from Panaji — Sulaxa, a counsellor, and Manesh, an engineer — decided to shift to their ancestral home in Nadora along with their two daughters. Born and brought up in the city, simple village life was a wondrous experience for seven-year-old Sayee. Cooking on a wood-fired ‘chulah’ especially caught her fancy and she decided to digitally document the traditional cooking process with the help of her 11-year-old sibling Juyee. It is Sayee’s aunt who decided to upload the videos online. In the first video, Sayee explains to her audience the process of cooking parboiled rice. “She first came up to me to ask how I would be cooking without all the appliances we have back at our home in Panaji. I explained to her and then she repeated the process for the video, guided by her elder sister. She later made other videos, like explaining how flour is made using the grindstone. Along with their sense of wonder, the passion to make these videos grew. Also, we do not have any television or any other luxuries here to distract them,” their mother Sulaxa said. It is not just Sayee’s aunt, but also many parents across the state who have similarly began sharing videos of their young children cooking. Four-year-old Caranzalem-resident Samaira Sayed’s first video was meant to teach her audience how the French toast is made. Such videos are sparking a trend online, as netizens find entertainment value in the innocent narration of the ‘cookery’ classes. “On weekdays, my wife and I remain busy working from home. So, on Saturday and Sunday, when we are free, we thought of doing some constructive activity with our daughter. She otherwise plays with atta (wheat flour) and things like that. Now with the lockdown, we don’t even allow her to go outside to play, so she gets bored. We thought making the video will help her build her communication skills,” businessman Shaibaz Sayed said. Seeing the positive response received online from family, friends and neighbours and the improvement in their daughter’s communication skills, Shaibaz and his wife decided to continue the ‘series’. “We first explain to her how the dish is made and then tell her to narrate it. I let her do all the mixing work and I do the actual cooking on the flame. After the French toast, she made a video on making pancakes. She was hesitating the first time, now she feels much more confident. A neighbour commented on the video saying that we can now have a YouTube channel hosted by her,” Samaira’s father said. Akshata Puranik Bhat from Merces, similarly shared a video online of her 7-year-old Atharv mixing the batter for a chocolate cake. “We do not have a TV at home and my younger son was asking for the mobile phone a lot after the lockdown left us confined to our home. We involved him in a lot of craft and art. But with a lot of time at hand, how much can you engage them in activities. So I thought of involving him in the kitchen,” Akshata said. Head teacher at Bhatikar Primary School in Margao, Anju Kamat is also encouraging each of her teachers to get parents to introduce their children to cooking skills. “The parents make videos of their children cutting vegetables or rolling chapatis and send them to their teachers everyday. Even otherwise, we encourage parents to involve children in housework to promote responsible behaviour in the children. Parents have found this useful during this lockdown period,” Kamat said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/masterchef-lockdown-kids-don-aprons-impress-online/articleshow/75131326.cms||Gauree Malkarnekar
April 14, 2020||Ahmedabad||Gujarat woos US and Japan cos from China||Gandhinagar: Looking to capitalize on growing trust deficit among countries for China where the Covid-19 global pandemic first broke out, Gujarat has written to political and business authorities of US and Japan, inviting them to shift their commercial units and operations from China to Gujarat. The state government has in the letters assured all required assistance and incentives to companies which decide to relocate their operations from China to Gujarat. US and Japanese companies already have a sizable presence in the home state of PM Narendra Modi state and the recent visits of US President Donald Trump and Japanese PM Shinzo Abe to Gujarat have further strengthened the bond. Confirming the development, principal secretary, industries, Manoj Das said the state government has written to the Japan government, Japan External Trade Organization (JETRO), US-India Business Council (USIBC) and US-India Strategic Partnership Forum (USISPF), inviting US and Japanese companies yet again in the changed geo-political situation. While the Japanese government has already announced a package for companies to shift their operations out of China, we have a dedicated Japanese park in Gujarat,” the official said. Das said the confidence of Japanese and US companies for investment in Gujarat is all time high, bolstered by the recent visits of US Prez Trump and Japanese PM Abe to Gujarat recently. “After the lockdown period ends, we will aggressively start a campaign to attract US and Japanese companies to Gujarat, especially those companies who are considering shifting their operations out of China,” said Das. Mona Khandhar, minister, (economic & commerce), embassy of India, Tokyo said Japanese companies lead in manufacturing of high standards in a number of sectors. “In the global perspective, Japanese companies have highest number of foreign subsidiaries in China, followed by ASEAN countries. For attracting relocating Japanese companies, India will see tough competition with ASEAN peers.” Commenting on Gujarat’s scope of attracting Japanese companies looking to relocate their Chinese units, Khandar said, “At present, the service sector is the growth driver for Indian economy. Gujarat has a better manufacturing base, and being so, better preparedness for attracting Japanese companies.”, she added. Up to December 2013, FDI from Japan to Gujarat was close to Rs 800 crore. This FDI has risen to over Rs 15,700 crore as of September 2019. Up to December 2013, FDI from USA to Gujarat was about Rs 5500 crore. This has doubled to Rs 10,691 crore as of September 2019. As per a report by US India Strategic Partnership Forum dated April 2019, nearly 200 US based companies were willing to shift their operational base from China to India. This has been further compounded by the disruption of supply chain and business losses experienced by US companies due to COVID 19 outbreak in China. Ends...||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/gujarat-woos-us-and-japan-cos-from-china/articleshow/75118802.cms||Kapil Dave
April 14, 2020||Goa||Tar balls surface at Baga, Mobor-Cavelossim beaches||Panaji: Tar balls have once again started surfacing on some beaches across the state. These oily balls — a consequence of churning of currents on the high seas in April and May — usually make walking on the beach difficult. However, with the lockdown in place, beaches are virtually empty. Usually, most beach stretches in the state see either tar balls or oil spillages in the summer months, but this time so far, it has been limited to the beaches of Mobor-Cavelossim in South Goa and Baga in North Goa. Experts say that there is likelihood of the tar balls appearing on the state’s other beaches next month. They could also surface during the monsoon. Everything is subject to weather conditions, the experts said. Drishti Lifesaving, an agency providing lifeguarding services, has intimated the government about the emergence of these oil spills and tar balls. Tourism director Menino D’Souza said that he was aware of the situation, and that directions have been issued to the beach cleaning agency—Karnataka Commercial and Industrial Corporation—to clean those shorelines where the tar balls and oil spills have surfaced. However, collection is not so much of a problem as disposal. Cleaning staff are required to take care, as the sticky, smelly objects are not easy to handle. “Disposal of collected tar balls is also the responsibility of the beach cleaning agency,” D’Souza said. A beach shack operator said that the appearance of tar balls has been a recurring phenomenon during the last decade, but its intensity varies according to the beach stretch. “We probably won’t see too many people on beaches due to the lockdown; they might otherwise have been bothered by the presence of the tar balls,” said secretary of Goa Shack Owners Welfare Society (SOWS) John Lobo. “I have wound up my activity due to the lockdown. However, I hope beaches are cleaned of the tar balls wherever they surface.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/tar-balls-surface-at-baga-mobor-cavelossim-beaches/articleshow/75130989.cms||Bindiya Chari
April 14, 2020||Dehradun||Mercury starts soaring, Doon crosses 35 degrees Celcius||Dehradun: The mercury has started soaring across the state, with maximum temperatures settling above normal in both hills and the plains. The temperature is likely to rise further in the next few days. In Dehradun, the maximum temperature on Monday was recorded at 35 degrees Celsius, three notches above normal, while the minimum settled at 18 degrees Celsius, which was two degrees above the normal level. Roorkee, which remained the hottest place in the state, the day’s temperature was recorded at 38.6 degrees Celsius. It was closely followed by Pantnagar in Udham Singh Nagar district, which witnessed a maximum temperature of 35.8 degree Celsius. The hills too have started experiencing the heat. Tehri recorded a maximum temperature of 25 degrees Celsius, while the temperature in Mukteshwar has breached the 23 degrees Celsius mark. According to Bikram Singh, director of regional meteorological center, “We are in the middle of April and as expected, temperatures have started rising in Uttarakhand. The maximum temperatures in both hills and plains are settling above the normal level.” Singh added that the mercury would continue to rise further in Uttarakhand in the days come, adding that dry weather is expected to prevail, except for isolated incidents of thunder activity in the hilly areas.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/mercury-starts-soaring-doon-crosses-35-degrees-celcius/articleshow/75130279.cms||Gaurav Talwar
April 14, 2020||Hyderabad||Pro-Amaravati group gets notice||HYDERABAD: Thullur police of Guntur district in AP on Monday served notices to pro-Amaravati protesters for holding protests during lockdown. The police served notices to protestors for violating section 144 of CrPC, which prohibits the gathering of five or more than five persons. The protesters are against the shifting of the administrative capital to Visakhapatnam since a few weeks. A group of 15 protesters gathered at a place and raised slogans, which is an offence under sections 188, 269, 270 and 271 of IPC.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/pro-amaravati-group-gets-notice/articleshow/75130949.cms||---
April 14, 2020||Lucknow||294 coaches for isolation purpose||LUCKNOW: Joining fight against coronavirus, Northern Railway (NR) and North Eastern Railway (NER) have created at least 293 isolation coaches with nine cabins each. While Lucknow division of NR has converted 221 coaches into isolation rakes, Lucknow Junction and Aishbagh coach depot of NER are ready with 60 and 12 isolation rakes, respectively. “These rakes can be placed anywhere in the country,” said DRM, NR (Lucknow), Sanjay Tripathi. The zonal railways will decide the placement of coaches in consultation with state governments. Out of 20,000 coaches that it plans to provide, railways will convert 5,000 rakes into isolation coaches in the first batch.Lucknow Junction of NER has already completed its target.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/294-coaches-for-isolation-purpose/articleshow/75131368.cms||---
April 14, 2020||Delhi||Delhi Police find coronavirus hasn’t spread in nine days of closure||NEW DELHI: Police in southwest Delhi had a challenge at hand when a man in a slum cluster at Shastri Market was discovered to be Covid-positive on March 31. His family was immediately shifted to a quarantine centre, where his wife and two children too tested positive. On the recommendation of the district magistrate, the entire jhuggi-jhopri colony was designated a containment zone. In the nine days of strict closure, the cops not only arranged rations for nearly 2,000 colony residents, but created a volunteer force to deliver these to the shanties. The shops in the JJ camp were allowed to open on alternate days. Every household has been medically examined for the past nine days for the novel coronavirus, and police are now waiting for the 14-day period to end to determine if the camp can be declared safe. The police team was informed about a positive corona case on March 31, when an employee of a hospital and camp resident got infected. The cops immediately shifted the man to a hospital and his family to a quarantine centre. “We were worried that if the virus spread in the JJ colony itself, it would be a huge disaster,” a police officer said. “There was no means of quarantine in the crowded slum. We shifted the family and got in touch with a team of doctors who agreed to monitor the other residents regularly.” The area was sanitised by an South Delhi Municipal Corporation team before it was declared into a containment zone and sealed off. While the residents were asked to stay in their houses, the cops and the district administration created a voluntary force comprising youths from the colony to help in the distribution of food and essentials. They were given protective suits. The phone numbers of the volunteers were shared with the residents of the camp, who could call them and ask for the goods which were delivered to the doorsteps. The cops also asked the local vegetable sellers to open their shops on alternate days. “The first, third, fifth shops and so on along a row were allowed to function on odd dates, and the rest on the following day,” explained a cop. The biggest challenge for the civic bodies and the cops was to keep the area sanitised. “Unlike proper housing colonies and residences, the shacks here do not have an attached bathroom and the people have to step out every time to use the common toilets,” an officer said. “We made efforts to keep these as clean as possible.” So far, more than 50 cops from different units in the district have been deployed in the JJ colony to implement the quarantine.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/police-find-virus-hasnt-spread-in-9-days-of-closure/articleshow/75131370.cms||Somreet Bhattacharya
April 14, 2020||Bengaluru||‘Dad’s saving people from infection and is busier than Shah Rukh’||Around the New Year, my husband spoke of preparing to combat the novel coronavirus outbreak which had begun spreading in China. While the probability of the virus striking India and Bengaluru looked far-fetched for me, he was already mentally preparing himself and his men to tackle the pandemic. While I wondered why the fuss, the virus hit us like an avalanche and knocked the air out of our lungs. While the pandemic has been raging across the world, in Karnataka it has been tapering. The number of people who have recovered is high. This would have been difficult to achieve if planners in the state’s healthcare system had turned a blind eye to what was happening in China. Initially, the biggest challenge my husband faced was to get people to understand the imminent danger and to frame a module to contain it. Karnataka was one of the first states to draw up protocols, close down public places, set-up infrastructure to treat patients and emphasize on social distancing. The herculean task was to screen those returning from overseas and ensure they stayed in home isolation. My husband reached out to Nasscom and tech-companies and was instrumental in making IVRS calls to thousands of international passengers in a bid to segregate those who had flu-like symptoms. This preventive step was a game-changer. However, his time with family reduced. The last four weeks have been like a whirlwind as the children and I keep wondering if we should wait for him for dinner. During the day, he is constantly hopping from one meeting to another and interacting and solving problems faced by health workers. He comes home around midnight and leaves for work even before the kids wake up in the morning. My daughter, 10, told me one morning: “Mom, I read Shahrukh Khan’s tweet where he says he will remember this time [lockdown] for the spending it with his loved ones in his arms.” I thought she would ask me why dad isn’t at home, but my son interrupted her saying: “He (dad) is saving us from corona and we have to support him. He is busier than Shah Rukh Khan.” I burst into laughter. Yes, he is a hero as are all the other professionals who are part of this war. It was an emotional moment for all of us when the country clapped for those fighting Covid-19. I was very proud of my husband. We would surely want Pankaj to take a week’s holiday once the rest of the world starts working again and we breathe fearlessly like before. (The writer Anuja Pandey, is wife of Pankaj Kumar Pandey, health commissioner, government of Karnataka)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/dads-saving-people-from-infection-and-is-busier-than-shah-rukh/articleshow/75130286.cms||---
April 14, 2020||Nagpur||27 foreign Tablighis booked in Amravati, Gadchiroli||Nagpur/Amravati: Continuing the crackdown on foreign nationals violating tourist visa norms, Amravati and Gadchiroli police have booked 27 Tablighis for indulging in religious activities. While 18 of them have been booked by Amravati police, 9 have been slapped with a case in Gadchiroli. With this, the total number of Tablighi Jamaat members booked by the state government has gone up to 156. Earlier, the police in Nagpur and Chandrapur had initiated similar action against foreign nationals. Amravati police booked 18 foreigners, including five women, who were hiding in the city, for violating visa conditions, curfew and provisions under the Epidemic Prohibition Act. Acting on a tip off, the police had traced them camping in Sabanpura locality under Kholapuri Gate police station. The cops have quarantined them after registering offences. While one group had been camping in the city since January, the other since February. All of them have been quarantined in a government building about 10 days ago. Of these, 10 are from Myanmar, one each from the USA and South Africa and six from Togo, said deputy commissioner of police Shashikant Satav. The administration had sent throat swab samples for testing and the reports are still awaited, collector Shailesh Naval told TOI on Monday. Police said even if their samples test negative, they will remain quarantined until their second swab test report comes. In Gadchiroli, seven Kazakhstan and two Kyrgyzstan nationals were booked last week for violating tourist visa norms by participating in religious preaching and related activities. They had arrived in the Maoist-affected Gadchiroli via Delhi on March 11. It’s learnt that local hosts of the foreigners had intimated police following which the health department had collected their swab samples for testing in the backdrop of the Delhi incident involving Tablighi Jamaat members. Following a state government decision, an offence was registered against them at Gadchiroli police station subsequently. Gadchiroli SP Shailesh Balkawade said the Tablighis, whose samples have been tested negative, have been told to remain in home quarantine. “The Tablighis who had come to Gadchiroli had not attended the Markaz at Nizamuddin in Delhi in March. In fact, the Tablighis were in Gadchiroli when the Markaz was being organized in Delhi,” said Balkawade. The SP said the nine foreigners have been placed in institutional quarantine now.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/27-foreign-tablighis-booked-in-amravati-gadchiroli/articleshow/75130291.cms||Soumitra Bose
April 14, 2020||Delhi||Home quarantined? Delhi cops got your number||NEW DELHI: An alert from a house in Vasant Kunj informing about the movement of a man who was advised home quarantine helped police track him down and book him for violating the order. Special Cell, which is tracking the numbers, has geo-fenced the locations. To monitor people on home quarantine, Delhi Police, along with department of telecommunications, has earmarked their geographical locations using their cellphone numbers. Each time a person moves or tries to move out of his/her house, an alert is generated at the police control room, which is then transferred to the nearest PCR van or police station. In some cases, police found that the person’s home quarantine days were over. To check wastage of time and resources, they have started to update their database by deleting the numbers of those whose quarantine period is over. Now, police are adding the quarantine period against the respective number so that it automatically gets removed. A senior police officer said, “Special Cell monitors the location each time an alarm is generated. Movement of not more than four metres is allowed. Even if a person lives on the ground floor and goes to the first floor, the alarm is generated. In home quarantine, the person has to contain oneself to a room. The report of people found violating the norm is then submitted to the district police, who tracks each location the person visited and books them.” On Saturday, a man residing on Church Road, who was supposed to be in home quarantine, was booked for going outside. “The man had returned from New York. He was seen travelling towards the airport and neighbouring areas despite being asked to be in home quarantine. The offence was verified and he was booked. We even call the violators to stay put,” said the officer.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/home-quarantined-cops-got-your-number/articleshow/75131395.cms||Sakshi Chand
April 14, 2020||Lucknow||UP CM for action against those hiding, spreading infection||LUCKNOW: Chief minister Yogi Adityanath on Monday said strict action would be initiated against people who have been hiding coronavirus infection and spreading it to others. The CM said action would also be taken against DMs and SSPs of districts from where such patients were reported. The order comes at a time when the government is rounding up members of Tablighi Jamaat who contracted coronavirus infection during a congregation in the national capital in March. Additional chief secretary (home) Awanish Awasthi said, “Those who have been hiding infection and purposely spreading it will be identified and strict action will be taken against them. Since directions to inspect all religious places, villages and houses were issued between March 29 and 31, action will also be taken against the DM and SSP concerned if they did not carry out inspections and such a case is reported from their areas now.” Meanwhile, the government has identified additional 25 districts where 62 hotspots have been created. Awasthi said 85% of total cases in the state were in areas which have been sealed. “In 15 districts taken up in the first phase, 146 hotspots have been identified. Almost 20 lakh people are living in these areas with 401 confirmed cases in the first phase hotspots and another 80 cases have been detected in the second set of hotspots,” he said. The CM has directed officials to intensify testing in hotspots and ensure strict implementation of lockdown rules. Doorstep delivery and sanitization of these areas should be done on priority, he added. Yogi also asked officials to explore ways to start emergency services in hospitals. “A committee has been set up under health minister Jai Pratap Singh to look into the aspect of starting private hospitals without exposing them to coronavirus threat,” Awasthi said. Stressing on the need for social distancing, the CM said nodal officers should be appointed in all mandis to implement the norm. He said permission should be given to buyers and farmer producer organisations to collect produce from farmers at their doorstep but ensure that purchase is done within minimum support price. The CM said organisations distributing food should operate from specified spots after informing the district administration.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/cm-for-action-against-those-hiding-spreading-infection/articleshow/75131377.cms||Neha Lalchandani
April 14, 2020||Delhi||Dust from West fouls up Delhi air||NEW DELHI: Dry and arid conditions have led to a spike in air pollution in the region with Delhi recording three ‘moderate’ days of the past four days. System of Air Quality and Weather Forecasting and Research (SAFAR) has also forecast rise in dust transport from the western parts of India in the next 48 hours, which could push the air quality to the ‘poor’ category. Track the pollution level in your cityOn Monday, the city saw a ‘moderate’ day at 126 — the highest so far this week. Delhi’s air has largely been in the ‘satisfactory’ range during the lockdown, with one ‘good’ day on March 28 when the AQI fell to 45. “Lifting of local dust is expected to increase, while the ratio of PM2.5 to PM10 has declined significantly, indicating missing sources of fossil fuel emissions and an enhanced role of natural summer dust. The SAFAR model suggests AQI is likely to deteriorate and stay in the moderate category on Tuesday. The rise in dust transport is expected by Wednesday, which can further deteriorate AQI to the higher end of moderate to poor category. This forecast considers an estimated reduction in local emissions due to lockdown,” said SAFAR on Monday. Kuldeep Srivastava, scientist, IMD and head Regional Weather Forecasting Centre, said crop burning was not a problem yet, while the current primary pollutant was PM10. “Local dust is being raised and also coming from Rajasthan. Due to dry conditions, we can expect pollution levels to rise in the next few days,” he added. The hourly PM10 concentration too touched around 248 micrograms per cubic metre at 8am on Monday — almost 2.5 times the safe standard of 100 micrograms. The overall 24-hour average of PM 10 has also spiked across NCR in the past 24 hours.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/dust-from-west-fouls-up-city-air/articleshow/75131382.cms||Jasjeev Gandhiok
April 14, 2020||Bengaluru||At 24%, Karnataka’s recovery rate is double the national average||BENGALURU: With nearly a quarter (60) of the 247 Covid-19 patients in the state having been discharged as on Monday, the recovery rate in Karnataka is more than double the national average. Across India, 1,007 (10.9%) of the 9,190 Covid-19 patients had recovered as on Monday morning. The recovery rate in 17 states, including Karnataka, is better than the national average. Andaman and Nicobar Islands fares the best with a 90.9% recovery rate — 10 of 11 patients have been discharged. Kerala has also done well with 48% of its Covid-19 patients cured and discharged. Maharashtra also has a recovery rate of 10.9%. The recovered patients in Karnataka include two senior citizens who battled kidney and cardiac issues and were on oxygen support for more than a week. “The case of a 67-year-old woman who suffered from chronic kidney failure was challenging. But she responded well to treatment. She was on oxygen support for a week and recuperated gradually,” said doctors at a private hospital who treated her. The other senior citizen, a 62-year-old man, who had a worrisome ECG reading and was on oxygen support for the first one week, has also recovered and was discharged from the isolation facility at Victoria Hospital. “There has been an increase in the number of patients getting discharged. In Bengaluru alone, 27 (35%) of the 77 patients have been discharged. The number has gone up in the past 14 days,” said S Suresh Kumar, Karnataka’s Covid-19 spokesperson. In Mysuru, 10 of the 48 patients are back home, in Dakshina Kannada, one of the 12 patients has been discharged and in Chikkaballapura, six of the nine who were infected have recovered. As per the Government of India protocol, a Covid-19 patient can be discharged only after 14 days, when s/he tests negative twice in a gap of 24 hours. 3 curious cases However, there are at least three cases that have raised questions. These patients have not tested negative for the infection even after completing 15 days of hospitalisation. While a senior official in the health department said patient No.s 18 and 19 have been discharged, the information has not been shared with the media by the government so far. Patient No. 17, a 39-year-old-man with travel history to the Netherlands, was admitted to hospital on March 21. He has still not tested negative for the infection. On April 6, he was shifted from Rajiv Gandhi Institute of Chest Diseases to the trauma care centre in Victoria Hospital campus as he tested positive even on the 15th day. “The patient is stressed. A week ago also he needed oxygen support for breathing. He is stable. We will have to conduct repeat tests and wait for the results,” said a doctor.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/at-24-karnatakas-recovery-rate-is-double-the-national-average/articleshow/75130298.cms||Sunitha Rao R
April 14, 2020||Nagpur||At Yeshwant Stadium veggie market, social distancing rots||Nagpur: It was utter chaos at the temporary vegetable market set up on the open space outside Yeshwant Stadium in Dhantoli area. Despite efforts of Nagpur Municipal Corporation (NMC), social distancing went for a toss here as a large number of people thronged the place. On Monday, TOI spotted hundreds of people including retailers, wholesalers and farmers at the market. Though a large number of NMC’s Dharampeth zone officials along with nuisance detection squad members were present, it was complete chaos. Dharampeth zone officials claimed they had allowed only 44 vegetable-laden vehicles here to ensure no crowding occurred. Despite this, a good number of retail vendors and buyers thronged the place to buy fresh vegetables. NDS members made repeated appeals to buyers, retailers and growers to ensure social distancing but it was not effective. With a view to curb spreading of coronavirus, NMC had closed wholesale Cotton Market and district collectorate restricted entry of vegetable laden vehicles inside Kalamna wholesale market. On March 31, municipal commissioner Tukaram Mundhe announced opening of 24 temporary markets on open spaces and grounds across the city. As per the plan, only growers were to be allowed to sell vegetables at these markets. Assistant municipal commissioner (Dharampeth zone) Prakash Warade, who was present at the place, said it was very difficult to explain to the vendors and people about the gravity of coronavirus. “The civic body, which has shut four temporary and one permanent vegetable market in the city, would shut this market too as nobody was following the social distancing norms,” Warade told TOI. The civic cops on their part make public announcements on safety procedures to be followed and the importance of maintaining social distancing. Though we are strict, it is difficult to regulate the large number of people at the market, they said. Sadhana Kale, one of the buyers, appreciated NMC’s efforts to open temporary markets and said vegetables were being sold here at cheaper rates too. Meanwhile, after almost 12 days of announcing the temporary markets, a few wholesale vegetable growers from Chicholi village near Fetri visited Ram Nagar garden. Here farmers were happy with the response. Rajesh Waghmare, one of the growers, pointed out that earlier they used to sell their produce in wholesale markets in Kalamna without wasting anytime. “At temporary markets they have to wait entire day to sell their produce,” said Waghmare. A few growers were also seen at an open place in Zingabai Takli.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/at-yeshwant-stadium-veggie-market-social-distancing-rots/articleshow/75130331.cms||Proshun Chakraborty
April 14, 2020||Dehradun||Haridwar akhadas stop Kumbh 2021 preparations||Haridwar: Akhada heads in Haridwar indicated on Monday that preparations for the Kumbh Mela, scheduled to commence in January 2021, have been put on hold at the akhada level, in light of the rising threat of the Covid-19 pandemic. “There is every possibility of the lockdown being extended, and the Mela administration not getting enough time for preparations,” Niranjani Akhada secretary Swami Ravindra Puri told TOI. “We know that a lot remains to be done by way of preparations for the Mela. But under present circumstances, the administration has more urgent things to do than preparing for Kumbh, and the seers too are more concerned about people’s wellbeing than festivals or religious activities,” he added. Months before the first Kumbh snan (holy bath) of akharas on Shiv Ratri in February 2021, jamaat (communities) of different akharas begin arriving within 50 km of Haridwar, from across the country around December, before moving into their chhawanis (camps) in the mela area. The Juna Akhada seers, for instance, arrive here on Bhairav Ashtami (an auspicious day in the Hindu calendar), said a Juna Akhada seer and Akhil Bharatiya Akhara Parishad general secretary Mahant Hari Giri. “But the jamaat has been asked not to move,” he said, adding, “In fact, a letter was issued to all units of the akhada, asking them to cancel all celebrations for the next 40 days. Even Navaratra, so important for seers, remained a simple affair.” The matter was subsequently discussed with ABAP president Narendra Giri. He agreed to Juna Akhada’s step, and sent a similar letter across to all akhadas. “As long as the country is facing this global crisis, we can’t think of anything else — not even Kumbh,” said Hari Giri, adding, “We’re only praying to God to save humanity from the deadly disease.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/haridwar-akhadas-stop-kumbh-2021-preparations/articleshow/75130302.cms||Sheo S Jaiswal
April 14, 2020||Lucknow||Over 1,400, including doctors, isolated after man tests positive in Lucknow||LUCKNOW: District authorities went on an overdrive on Monday, isolating over 1,400 people and sealing a locality and a hospital in old city, after an elderly patient admitted to KGMU’s trauma centre tested positive for novel coronavirus infection. The patient, who is suffering from acute respiratory syndrome, is critical and his source of infection is not known yet. Naya Gaon in Nazirabad area, where the patient resides, was sealed till further orders soon after the test report was out. Around 1,000 people live in the area. At least 65 health personnel at KGMU’s trauma centre, including 13 junior doctors, were quarantined for two weeks. Besides, a private hospital in Hussainganj and a private diagnostic centre at Chowk, which the patient had visited in last 10 days, were asked to shut and their 50-odd employees, including doctors, were asked to isolate themselves at home for 14 days. Chief medical superintendent, KGMU, Prof SN Shankhwar said the 64-year-old patient was admitted to the emergency ward on Saturday evening. “After examination, a junior doctor referred him to medicine unit where another junior doctor realised that the patient had Covid-19 symptoms and immediately shifted him to isolation unit. His swab sample report came out to be positive on Monday,” he said. Six family members of the patient have been quarantined at a private hospital near Hussainganj and they are being tested. Alarmed over the development, KGMU authorities hurriedly made an announcement on public address system at trauma centre and asked all personnel who were on duty on Saturday evening to assemble outside the premises. Simultaneously, each one of them were called on phone and asked to collect outside isolation unit. Swab samples of all of them were taken for testing. Junior doctors were quarantined at a hotel on Rana Pratap Marg, while others were lodged at student hotels and guest houses. The junior doctors included three who examined the patient, and 10 others with whom these three came in contact in their hostels since Saturday evening. Other quarantined staff included 40 nurses and paramedics, 10 sanitation workers and two security guards. About 300 family members of these health personnel have also been asked to remain in home isolation till further orders. Chief medical officer Dr Narendra Agarwal said, “Till the time we get the reports of health personnel, their families will remain in home isolation. Those found positive will be quarantined and their families will be tested.” He said the health department had launched a survey to find people who came in contact with the patient in last 10 days. Administrative and police officials swung into action on Monday morning and sealed Naya Gaon area in accordance with the containment policy. Assistant commissioner of police, Kaiserbagh, IP Singh said, “Complete restriction on movement of people has been imposed with immediate effect. All essential items will be supplied by the administration.” After Phoolbagh, Naya Gaon is second area in Kaiserbagh to be sealed to check Covid-19 spread. So far, 13 areas/localities have been sealed in the city.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/over-1-4k-including-doctors-isolated-after-man-tests-ve/articleshow/75131391.cms||---
April 14, 2020||Delhi||Delhi: Entry curbs cut crowd by 30 per cent at Azadpur||NEW DELHI: Delhi government on Monday formed four special task forces and appointed one nodal officer in each of the seven wholesale markets/mandis to enforce the government order on maintaining social distancing by restricting the entry of people and movement of trucks. The decision was taken in a meeting chaired by development minister Gopal Rai to review measures taken by the market committees to ensure fewer people, both fruit and vegetable suppliers and retailers, reach the wholesale markets. The government has fixed timings of arrival and sale of vegetables and fruits in the mandis. It has also implemented an odd-even scheme allowing sale on odd-numbered platforms in each shed on dates ending with 1, 3, 5, 7, and 9 and on even-numbered platforms on dates ending with 0, 2, 4, 6 and 8. Buyers are being given tokens to enter the mandis and the number of trucks of supplies a trader can get in the mandi has been restricted to just one. There are four vegetable and fruit mandis in Delhi — Azadpur. Ghazipur, Okhla and Keshopur — one for fish and poultry at Ghazipur and two wholesale markets for grains at Narela and Najafgarh. “There were issues regarding social distancing in these wholesale markets. An odd-even policy has been implemented to restrict footfall and maintain social distancing. The market committees have been directed to ensure proper supply of essential commodities,” the minister said in a statement. While vegetable markets will now be open from 6am to 11am, fruit markets will operate from 2pm to 6pm. “The entry to these markets will be done only through coupons. The vice-chairperson of Delhi Agricultural Marketing Board and development secretary will be responsible for overall monitoring,” said Rai. Azadpur APMC chairman Adil Ahmad Khan said the new steps resulted in crowd reduction of 30% in the mandi on Monday. “We issued 2,000 tokens each in the morning and evening and business was smooth. We are sure we will be able to decongest the mandis and maintain social distancing. Tokens will start being issued in other markets from Tuesday,” he added. Since the new rules will keep small vendors out of the mandi, officials accepted there may be a hike of 20-25% in the prices of vegetables. The small vendors will now have to buy the commodities from big buyers who will get the coupon to enter the mandis. “With the addition of one more channel in the supply chain, the retail prices will definitely surge. But it is a small price to pay to keep ourselves safe from this global pandemic,” an official said. “However, vegetables and fruits are denotified items and farmers are free to sell them anywhere. Those buying from private wholesale markets can get the commodities at a lesser price,” said the official.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/entry-curbs-cut-crowd-by-30-at-azadpur/articleshow/75131387.cms||---
April 14, 2020||Delhi||No fruits of labour: Vendors say harassed by Delhi cops at every step||NEW DELHI: Late on Sunday night, after parking his vehicle at the Modi Mill flyover, vegetable vendor Rajesh Shah walked to the nearby Okhla mandi, the wholesale vegetable hub. He returned to find his vehicle’s windshield broken and was himself roughed up by policemen. Shah barely managed to reach home with some stuff to sell. Unfortunately, his experience is not uncommon these days. Vendors like Shah, all exempted from the anti-Covid lockdown, report the cops as being overzealous in their vigil at the wholesale markets. Ram Chander, who retails in Jangpura Extension, said, “Police start queuing you up at the mandi from 11 pm onwards and social distancing stretches the line to hundreds of metres. Since last Sunday, things have got stricter and I have seen numerous vendors get beaten,” alleged the 44-year-old. Similar narratives of heckling and rough treatment are pouring in from mandis across the city. Chittaranjan Park fruit seller Raj Bhadur, 45, is no longer allowed to use his old route to the Okhla mandi past the Govindpuri metro station but has to walk via Nehru Place. He and his fellow vendors used to leave for Okhla market around 2am, but the mounting obstacles have forced them to set out as early as 11pm. “I was beaten on two days near the metro station. It takes two hours of a difficult time at the mandi to get anything, yet people are angry at us for raising our rates,” he grumbled. Rajkamal, 35, who sells vegetables in Sector 6, Dwarka, procures them from Nasirpur mandi. “Police resorts to cane charges regularly to enforce social distancing,” he said. Vijay Kumar, 52, dolefully sat at west Delhi’s Keshopur mandi, saying he was sent home without purchases after police warned him of infection if he entered the mandi. Fortunately, another vendor shared some produce with Kumar, enabling him to sell the limited stock on Monday to elderly people. “I didn’t have enough to sell to everyone in the colony,” he explained. Besides procuring goods at bodily risks, vendors also narrated of being disallowed from selecting wares unless they committed to buy a full sack. Ram Babu, allegedly slapped by policemen while entering Okhla mandi and hit with sticks when coming out, complained, “I walk 5-6km at night to reach the market to find that they are not allowing me to select what I need. I have to buy a whole bag that is sure to contain rotten pieces.” On Saturday, authorities directed the shifting of the mandi from Mehrauli main market to the Mehrauli bus terminal. It took 36-year-old Kamal Mandal almost seven night hours to get fresh produce. “If you step out of the demarcated circles, you get the cane. I have the pass issued to essential service providers by the government, but the cops harass us at all times,” he mumbled. With Delhi government announcing a new odd-even system at the wholesale markets, all eyes will be on how the authorities balance social distancing and the need to ensure proper flow of essential supplies.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/no-fruits-of-labour-vendors-say-harassed-by-cops-at-every-step/articleshow/75131402.cms||---
April 14, 2020||Nagpur||CRly maps over 2 lakh staff, families to check health status||Nagpur: The Central Railway has mapped over 2 lakh employees and their family members under its ‘Railway family monitoring drive’ launched due to concerns over Covid-19. Of these 2 lakh, 92,000 are staffers and 1.08 lakh are family members. “The drive was launched more than a week ago to look into the concerns of employees and their families during these uncertain times. We checked the health status of more than two lakh employees and their family members in the state. Contractual staff and allied workers are also included,” said chief public relations officer (CPRO) Shivaji Sutar. “The Central Railway idea has been appreciated by the Railway Board and has been adopted by other railway zones. The main aim is to be in regular contact with all the employees of the Central Railway, keeping a record of their health status and providing adequate support during the lockdown period,” Sutar said. Sanjeev Mittal, general manager, Central Railway, said, “This campaign will be further enriched to higher levels of cooperative support in the ongoing fight against the Covid-19 pandemic to instill solidarity among the employees.” The role of human resource department which has coordinated with other departments for this initiative is worth mentioning, he adds. Dr AK Sinha, principal chief personnel officer, said, “A message has been sent to all the railway staff and officers to maintain a contact dairy at the end of the day in which they are supposed to list down the names and details of people they have met during the day to help track contacts if someone turns Covid-19 positive.” Sinha also said the resourcefulness of divisional railway managers of all the divisions — Nagpur, Solapur, Pune, Mumbai, Bhusawal — under Central Railway have made it possible to cross the figure of 2 lakh. Explaining the benefits of the drive, CPRO Sutar said, “Every employee has been contacted and mapped location-wise so that in case of an emergency, help can reach them quickly. This one-to-one contact programme enabled us to get the ‘Arogya Setu App’ downloaded by almost all the employees and additional 50,000 pensioners as well.” Families of the employees have been counselled that front-line staff will be required to keep essential services running and that the administration is with them to take care of their needs. All the information on personal protection and measures to contain the spread of Covid-19 are being shared with all the employees and their families. Sutar further said that committees at colony level have been activated and other local committees formed with the help of employees and railway union members. These committees are taking care of employees’ day-to-day needs. “Various cooperative societies of railways have been activated and colony-wise duty has been assigned to nominated members for provision of groceries etc,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/crly-maps-over-2-lakh-staff-families-to-check-health-status/articleshow/75128360.cms||Vijay Pinjarkar
April 14, 2020||Madurai||Officials to help stray animals get food, care||Madurai: Officials of the animal husbandry department have appeal to people to pass on information about stray cattle and dogs, which are in need of food and medical care during the lockdown period in Virudhunagar district. Virudhunagar district joint director of animal husbandry department S Arunachalakani said that steps have been initiated to take care to feed the stray dogs in the district as per the instructions of district collector R Kannan. He said that the officials are feeding stray dogs at Srivilliputhur and Rajapalayam with the support of volunteers. He said that several volunteers have also approached us to feed stay dogs and cattle and steps would be taken by the department to assist the volunteers. He said that the people could also pass information about stray cattle and dogs that are in need of food and medical care in their locality on the emergency mobile number of animal mobile medical ambulance ‘1962’. When such information is received, the officials from the department would take necessary steps to provide food and medical treatment to such stray animals in the district, he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/officials-to-help-stray-animals-get-food-care/articleshow/75130955.cms||---
April 14, 2020||Nagpur||Over 1L RSS men helping 10L families beat lockdown woes||Nagpur: The city-based Rashtriya Swayamsevak Sangh (RSS), which is always at the forefront in helping needy during natural or man-made tragedies across the country, has pressed its massive volunteer base into providing relief to the poor, needy and migrants in the wake of mega crisis due to nationwide lockdown because of the novel coronavirus (Covid-19) outbreak. According to RSS sahakaryawah Suresh (Bhaiyyaji) Joshi, over one lakh Sangh volunteers are working in about 10,000 villages across the country providing food and other essential items to the needy. They’re also facilitating medical aid to villagers by helping them reach doctors. “Today, we’re passing through an unprecedented crisis. Entire world is shaken by this catastrophe which is one of the biggest threats humans have ever faced. Only solution to get away from this deadly virus is to strictly follow directives like social distancing issued by the government and doctors. Our activists have so far reached about 10 lakh families in one or the other way to help them out,” he said. “As and when need arises, more of our volunteers would come forward to serve the nation selflessly. In Maharashtra, they’ve reached migrants at various places and made arrangements of food and water for their families. About 1,000 of them have also donated blood,” Joshi said. Expressing confidence that spread of the deadly virus would come under control and normalcy could be returned, he advised people to continue exercising restraint during the lockdown period. “We all need to make a resolution that we would abide by all diktats along with rules and regulations as directed by the government to get away from this disaster. In the present scenario, there cannot be any fixed criteria on what kind of help would be required. We all should ready ourselves for helping anyone in any circumstances in whatever way we can,” he told activists. Asserting that citizens in general have acknowledged the saffron organization’s contribution to the nation during such calamities, Joshi exhorted people to join them in this noble task. “We’re unable to gauge magnitude of this crises at the moment, but we all should come together to fight the scourge with courage, conviction and hard work. If we face this problem unitedly, it would help in getting over the problem early. In next two weeks, we all should work hard to help each other. We also need to spread awareness and include all members of the society in this fight against the invisible enemy,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/over-1l-rss-men-helping-10l-families-beat-lockdown-woes/articleshow/75128394.cms||Vaibhav Ganjapure
April 14, 2020||Delhi||Machines from Japan spray disinfectants in Delhi||NEW DELHI: Delhi Jal Board (DJB) on Monday started using specialised Japanese machines for sprinkling disinfectants in containment zones across the city to prevent the spread of novel coronavirus. These machines, which are essentially fertiliser and pesticide sprinklers, can disinfect an area of 20,000 square metres per hour with sodium hypochlorite solution. Chief minister Arvind Kejriwal had on Sunday informed that the government would be using 20 such machines donated by an agriculture sciences company. Besides these, DJB has 50 smaller machines that will be used in the disinfection drive. DJB on Monday ran a pilot disinfection drive in Rajendra Nagar assembly constituency in which three such machines were used in the presence of experts. Area MLA and DJB vice-chairman Raghav Chadha said, “We sanitised the entire area and studied all the necessary parameters. After a careful consultation with the experts, it was decided that the disinfection drive should be immediately started in the containment zones. This project will be named Mukhyamantri Delhi Sanitisation Drive.” “This is the first time that such technology is being used to tackle the Covid-19 pandemic in India. The government has marked containment zones into red and orange (high-risk). The disinfection drive will be carried out in these areas first,” the MLA added. Chadha said, “This machine is very flexible. As its length is adjustable, it can easily enter narrow lanes. Given the fact that these sprinklers are used by farmers to spray pesticides on farms, they can be easily used for disinfection and sanitisation. The chemical used for the disinfection drive is as per WHO guidelines. These machines spray the disinfectants in such a way that germs and virus are killed on any solid surface.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/machines-from-japan-spray-disinfectants/articleshow/75131489.cms||---
April 14, 2020||Dehradun||Kedarnath chief priest writes to PM Modi, seeks help to reach shrine before it reopens||Dehradun: Stuck in the lockdown, the Kedarnath temple’s Rawal (chief priest), Bhimashankar Ling, has written to PM Modi seeking help to reach the revered shrine before its portals are opened on April 29 morning. Speaking exclusively with TOI over the phone, the head priest said, “I have sought help from the Prime Minister so that I reach Ukhimath (winter abode of the Kedarnath deity) and start all the traditional rituals that take place before the shrine is reopened.” The Rawal is presently stranded in Nanded district in Maharashtra and he is seeking special permission to travel by road along with his retinue and also bring the sacred gold crown of the deity which is to be kept in the main temple in Kedarnath when the shrine reopens. According to a centuries-old tradition established by Adi Shankaracharya, the head priest of Kedarnath shrine is required to be present for the rituals that are undertaken when the deity is brought in procession to the Kedarnath temple from Ukhimath when the temple’s portals are opened for summer. Speaking to TOI, the head priest said that he is expecting for permissions to be given so that he can undertake the journey from Nanded to Ukhimath, which is a distance of over 1300 km by road. He added that necessary arrangements have been made for the journey which is expected to take around three days. “We have communicated to the PMO and are awaiting their response. We are ready to stay at designated places outside the cities on the route, and observe all social distancing norms. We will also undergo mandatory quarantine period after reaching, as stipulated by the authorities,” the Rawal said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/kedarnath-chief-priest-writes-to-pm-modi-seeks-help-to-reach-shrine-before-it-reopens/articleshow/75129374.cms||---
April 14, 2020||Goa||Goa mulling rapid test at state borders||PANAJI: The state government is contemplating the possibility of setting up Covid-19 rapid testing facilities at the state’s border so that those entering, like drivers of goods trucks, can be checked. The chief minister termed it a precautionary measure to ensure that no person carrying the virus crosses over into Goa. “We are examining whether we should conduct the Covid-19 test at borders. Nothing has been finalised as yet because Goa is in quarantine. We will not allow anyone to enter the state, but even so we want to check the drivers of good vehicles who come with essential commodities,” chief minister Pramod Sawant told reporters. Sawant said that the government did not want those coming into the state with goods vehicles to become the reason for the spread of Covid-19 in the state. This is why as a precautionary measure we are looking at rapid testing at the border, he said. “We looking at whether we can set up Covid-19 testing facilities at eight check-posts across the state through corporate social responsibility (CSR),” Sawant said. He added that this decision will be taken in consultation with the Union health ministry. “If our rapid test received ICMR’s approval, within one hour we can get the result of a Covid-19 test,” he said, “If we get negative report then we can allow him (the driver) to enter the state. We will remain safe,” Sawant said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/goa-govt-keen-on-setting-up-covid-19-testing-facilities-at-border/articleshow/75131386.cms||---
April 14, 2020||Madurai||Lockdown doesn’t deter people from Tamil New Year shopping||Madurai: The city on Monday morning had signs of normalcy with people shopping for groceries and fruits in large numbers whilst maintaining social distancing, as the Tamil New Year falls on Tuesday. “It is not going to feel like a New Year as we are going to stay indoors. But it is considered auspicious to have essentials like sugar, oil, salt, turmeric etc, so I came out for shopping,” said Tharani from Anna Nagar. She was among many other residents who had decided to get their commodities home delivered and contacted the numbers circulated in WhatsApp groups. “But, when I called the concerned shop, they told me to come and collect them as delivering goods in the contained areas is banned,” she said. All the shops had their display windows shut. While some stores in Anna Nagar checked the body temperature and asked people to sanitize their hands before entering the shops, others just urged them to maintain social distancing. “Minimal crowds in shops and empty streets seem to be an example of what it is going to be like during the first few days after the lockdown is extended,” said Mayailvaganan of K K Nagar. “One thing is for sure, life is never going to be the same,’’ he added. “The only thing we are missing is the flowers. It’s nowhere to be found in the city,” said Rani of Vilangudi. Meanwhile, some meat stalls and roadside eateries selling idlies and paniyarams were seen functioning near the Karimedu fish market It saw a steady flow of customers. A police personnel on duty in Anna Nagar said they were ensuring that the people maintained social distancing. They let people stand in the queue till 1 am to finish their shopping considering the Tamil New year.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/lockdown-doesnt-deter-people-from-tamil-new-year-shopping/articleshow/75130964.cms||---
April 14, 2020||Madurai||Madurai: Decomposed body of teen found on house terrace||TUTICORIN: The decomposed body of a teenager, who went missing since Tuesday last, was found on the terrace of his house in Tuticorin district on Monday. It is suspected that the teenager might have committed suicide by consuming poison after being scolded by his father. The deceased has been identified as Sanjay, 19, son of Kumar and Everest Mary of Boopalarayapuram. The teenager discontinued his studied after Class XII and worked as a mason. As there was no work due to the lockdown he used to loiter around in the locality. Inquiries revealed that he was not in good terms with his father. On April 7, the teenager took Rs 400 from his father’s pocket. The father scolded him for that. The teenager left home and never returned. The relatives told police that they had not searched for him as he used to return home a couple of days later. On Monday, neighbours came across a foul smell emanating from the terrace of the house. As there were no stairs to the terrace, some of them climbed the terrace and saw the decomposed body of the teenager. “There were no visible signs that could lead us to the cause of death as there were worms on the body since it was badly decomposed. We sent the body to the Thoothukudi government medical college hospital for autopsy,” Tuticorin DSP R Prakash said. The Tuticorin North police registered a case under Section 174 (unnatural death) of the Code of Criminal Procedures.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/decomposed-body-of-teen-found-on-house-terrace/articleshow/75130965.cms||---
April 14, 2020||Nagpur||Caught in lockdown, contractor ‘deserts’ labourers from MP||Yavatmal: Over 30 labourers have been deprived of essential commodities for the last four days as the contractor who had hired them is now unreachable for the last several days. The labourers, mostly from Madhya Pradesh, have been staying near a construction site in cotton market area on Dhamangaon Road, along with their women and kids. Food packets were distributed to them till Saturday by a group led by MLA Madan Yerawar. But that too has now stopped. According to Ambilal Pandhare, a resident of Kumarikala village in Lanji tehsil in Balaghat district of Madhya Pradesh, the workers were brought to Yavatmal by a Pandharkawda-based private contractor Pratap Samastha on January 15 and deployed them at a construction site. “We were given Rs1,000 per week by the contractor till the lockdown was announced. Thereafter, the contractor had gone to Pandharkawda where he is reportedly held-up due to the imposition of curfew,” said Pandhare. “A local NGO provided us with some food packets and provisions. But it has also stopped now,” he said. Ambilal and others want to go back to their native village at the earliest and since the lockdown is extended till April 30, they are more worried about the little kids. Yavatmal tehsildar Kunal Zalte told TOI on Monday that he visited the site and also contacted the contractor with the help of Pandharkawda tehsildar. “I have urged officials there to issue a special pass to the contractor so that he could travel to Yavatmal and take care of the labourers,” said Zalte. Till then, some NGOs would be roped in to provide food and essentials to the labourers, he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/caught-in-lockdown-contractor-deserts-labourers-from-mp/articleshow/75128412.cms||---
April 14, 2020||Dehradun||No new Covid-19 case in U’khand for 5th consecutive day||Dehradun: No new case of novel coronavirus was reported in Uttarakhand for the fifth consecutive day on Monday. Director of national health mission (NHM), Uttarakhand, Yugal Kishore Pant said that the health department has received reports of 125 samples from the virology labs of Susheela Tiwari Medical College and AIIMS Rishikesh, the two main Covid-19 testing centres, and all were negative. “We had sent 131 samples for testing on April 13 and results of 191 samples were pending till Monday. The state has done 1998 tests of Covid-19 till now. It is a good news that we haven’t got a single positive case in past five days but people are still advised to stay indoors as that will minimise the risk for them,” he said, adding that 325 new ICU beds are also ready in various government establishments apart from the already existing ones. Meanwhile, CM Trivendra Singh Rawat also said that it is heartening that not a single Covid-19-positive case has been found in the state in the past 100 hours. “As many as seven cases have been treated and discharged and another two or three more are likely to follow suit in the next few days. The situation is under control. However, we still cannot drop our guard. There have been instances where symptoms have been visible even after 30 days,” the CM said. The health department also announced that Doon Hospital, Indian Institute of Petroleum and a private pathology lab, Dr Ahuja’s Pathology Centre have been given in-principle approval to test samples of Covid-19. Also, to ensure treatment of patients with deadly diseases, the government has announced pick and drop facility to the patients via 108 ambulance after reports came of people finding it difficult to reach hospitals in the absence of public transport during lockdown.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/no-new-covid-19-case-in-ukhand-for-5th-consecutive-day/articleshow/75129394.cms||Ishita Mishra
April 14, 2020||Madurai||NGOs upset at govt order to hand over essentials||Madurai: NGOs and activists, who have been actively engaged in handing over food and essential supplies to the needy, have expressed disappointment over the state government’s intervention and direction asking them to hand it over to the district administration or local body and not to directly hand it over to beneficiaries. “No other state has come out with such a direction. Their argument that COVID-19 could spread when essential commodities are handed over to beneficiaries is unacceptable. The Rs 1,000 dole given by the government for a family per month is insufficient to meet the price escalation of commodities,” A Kathir, executive director of NGO Evidence said. “The government should encourage NGOs and work with them. The government could regulate the way it is done,” he added. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/ngos-upset-at-govt-order-to-hand-over-essentials/articleshow/75130970.cms||---
April 14, 2020||Mumbai||Bandra man pulls through after 11 days on ventilator||MUMBAI: His voice still hoarse from 11 days of intubation, Bandra man Faraz (39) called his one-month suffering from coronavirus a journey beyond and back. After 11 days on a ventilator and a complete recovery, the entrepreneur went home last week, among a handful of Covid-19 patients in the city to recover from acute respiratory distress syndrome (ARDS)—one of the deadliest complications caused by the infection. Faraz told TOI on a video call: “Doctors are fighting the virus, but we must find the courage to fight it from within. It’s as much a mental battle.” He distinctly remembers the sinking feeling when doctors were prepping to put him on a ventilator at Lilavati Hospital on April 6. He had progressed to ARDS, where the lungs become heavy, stiff and start losing their ability to expand. “I used to be closest to my grandmother until we lost her some years ago. During my days on the ventilator, I had started imagining that I would be meeting her soon,” said the entrepreneur. He snapped out of such thoughts the day a fellow patient, a much older woman, came out of the ventilator. “That gave me the faith to fight it. Besides, the doctors and nurses told me they were risking their lives for me, so I must fight harder,” he said. It all started with a mild fever and cough on March 13. He took some medicines and the fever subsided for two days, only to return with severity. As advised by a doctor, he did blood tests and got x-rays, but nothing was conclusive. Faraz had an inkling it could be coronavirus and went to Kasturba Hospital for tests on March 21. “I had started maintaining distance from my family by then,” he said. His report was negative. But as his symptoms persisted and started worsening, he got admitted to Lilavati on March 24. Another Bandra hospital had turned him away. Faraz tested positive the next day, by which time his breathing was laboured. On March 26, he was put on the ventilator. His treating physician Dr Jalil Parkar said they put him on a non-invasive ventilator at first but since he did not respond they put him on an invasive one. “He is a young man with no comorbid conditions, yet his disease progressed to such a critical stage. We gave our everything to save him,” said the doctor. Faraz’s father and sister, a surgeon, tested positive too and were admitted at the hospital. Faraz came out of the ventilator on April 5 as his lung function improved. “His x-rays started getting clearer and his oxygen dependence reduced. I knew he would pull through,” said the doctor, adding by April 2 he was quite conscious. “That day was like winning a world cup for the medical team,” he said. Faraz wonders where he may have contracted the virus. His last foreign travel was a one-day trip to Bangladesh in February and before that to the US in the first week of February. “But I got the symptoms after more than a month. We know so little about the virus. It’s important to heed the advice of social distancing.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/bandra-man-pulls-through-after-11-days-on-ventilator/articleshow/75130317.cms||---
April 14, 2020||Madurai||14 new Covid-19 cases in Madurai, 29 in south Tamil Nadu||MADURAI: Twenty-nine new cases were reported in the southern districts on Monday, of which 14 were recorded in Madurai district alone on Monday. The total cases in Madurai has gone up to 39, while the total cases in southern districts is 268. The 14 from Madurai included seven who had participated in the Delhi conference. Two people, whose relatives had attended the conference in Delhi had also tested positive in Madurai. A 62-year-old SARI-Covid-19 person from Yagappa Nagar in the city, is also stated to have a contact history. The only person whose contact history is yet to be traced in the district is that of the 54-year-old victim from Madurai. Both Yagappa Nagar and Gomathypuram were completely sealed off by the authorities two days ago, as a containment measure. Six new cases in Virudhungar took the total number in the district to 11. Among them, a 62-year-old man from Rajapalayam was successfully treated and discharged, hence the district now has 10 positive cases. Four of his contacts, however, tested positive They included his male friend, a male doctor and two female medical staff of a clinic which the man from Rajapalayam had visited before he was diagnosed for the disease. Virudhunagar collector R Kannan said the clinic was closed on March 27 after the man tested positive and the three medical personnel were quarantined. Now that they had tested positive, officials would be identifying all the people who had visited the clinic between March 22 and March 26. He further said that Rajapalayam town with 42,000 houses and a population of 1.30 lakh people would come under the containment zone. Ramanathapuram reported three new cases on Monday, including a 66-year-old woman and a 44-year-old man, both relatives of the 71-year-old Covid-19 positive man who had succumbed to the illness in Stanley Medical College Hospital in Chennai on April 2. They were among the 254 who had attended his funeral on April 3 in Keezhakarai. The third person, a 45-year-old driver from Paramakudi, had attended the Tablighi meet. This took the tally in Ramanathpuram district to five. The three have been admitted to the isolation ward in the Sivaganga government hospital. Meanwhile, a 42-year-old man who had recently returned from Malaysia and was under home quarantine, died of cardiac arrest on Monday morning. The man was a resident of Andalpuram. According to health officials, as per protocol, his body was brought to the mortuary at Government Rajaji Hospital (GRH) and his samples were sent for testing. They are also monitoring all his close contacts.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/14-new-covid-19-cases-in-madurai-29-in-south-tn/articleshow/75130975.cms||---
April 14, 2020||Ahmedabad||Ahmedabad: Gomtipur police use drone to deliver medicines||AHMEDABAD: Gomtipur police is carrying out trials to supply medicines through drones to people needing them. The trials are under way with the help of a private company that has a licence to fly drones. Gomtipur police inspector Chirag Tandel said a lot of people come out during the lockdown to buy medicines. “To keep such persons indoors, we thought of using drones to supply medicines to those in need,” Tandel said. Tandel said that a man had called the Gomtipur police station saying he needed a certain medicine. “We bought the medicine from a medical shop near the Gomtipur fountain, put it in a box attacked to the drone and flew it to the man’s terrace near Amrapali Cinema,” Tandel said.  Tandel said online retailers abroad deliver products to customer’s homes using drones and using them to deliver medicine would help restrict the movements of people during the lockdown. Senior police officials said if the lockdown is extended, they will think of delivering other essentials using drones as well.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/gomtipur-police-use-drone-to-deliver-medicines/articleshow/75130729.cms||---
April 14, 2020||Delhi||Delhi: Baisakhi at home, live cast of kirtan from gurdwaras||NEW DELHI: It was a different Baisakhi this year. With all gurdwaras in the capital staying closed for the public on Monday in the wake of the novel coronavirus crisis, the Sikh devotees prayed at home while listening to live telecasts of kirtan on Facebook, YouTube and radio channels. The gurdwara authorities said only those required to conduct the prayers were allowed on the premises. Langars were limited too, with the cooked food given to Delhi government or NGOs for distribution. Bangla Sahib, Rakabganj Sahib, Sisganj Sahib and Moti Bagh — the gurdwaras that usually record high footfall on this day that marks spring harvesting and the formation of the Khalsa panth in 1699 — wore a deserted look on Monday. Delhi Sikh Gurdwara Management Committee president Manjinder Sirsa said strict instructions were issued to all gurdwaras not to allow public inside. “Live telecasts from the gurdwaras were being done so that people could feel they were at a gurdwara. The best way to celebrate the festival now is by staying indoors,” Sirsa added. An official at Bangla Sahib said people who came on Monday were asked to follow kirtans on YouTube and Facebook at home and not breach social distancing. Ravinder Singh, a resident of Pitampura who spent the day praying at his home before lighting candles on the terrace, said, “The best one can do is to stay home in such times, pray and stick together.” Several NGOs fed the poor or distributed ration to celebrate the festival. “We have also ordered 300 PPE kits and 600 lab coats, which will be distributed at government hospitals,” said Parvinder Singh Nanda of United Sikhs, an NGO.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/baisakhi-at-home-live-cast-of-kirtan-from-gurdwaras/articleshow/75131514.cms||Jasjeev Gandhiok
April 14, 2020||Madurai||With Tasmac shops shut, demand rises for arrack||MADURAI: The demand for arrack has been on the rise among alcoholics as Tasmac outlets have been closed for the last three weeks due to the lockdown. Capitalising on this, many arrack manufacturing units have popped up in various parts of the state. As the lockdown has been extended till the end of April, police have stepped up vigil to crack the whip on arrack distilling, transporting and storing. Ten illicit arrack cases were booked in Kanyakumari district on Sunday. Fermented wash was found at two places in Virudhunagar district and at one place in Theni district in the last 10 days. Police are also after bootleggers selling Tasmac liquor at inflated prices and toddy tappers. Of the 10 cases booked in Kanyakumari on Sunday, it was found out in three cases that arrack was being prepared at homes using pressure cookers, giving a clear indication that brewing need not necessarily be carried out in distilleries or remote places under hiding. “Seizure in these 10 cases ranged from meagre volumes of two litres arrack,” a senior police officer. The number of incidents and cases are on the rise in the last four to five days. “There is no formula or proper procedure to make it. They use anything available from fruits, fruit juice, sugar, jaggery and so on to make arrack,” the officer said, adding they also seized a few cans of fermented sap at a few places. Police have not been able to catch people red-handed while selling it, but have booked those brewing, transporting or storing it. Kanyakumari district SP N Sreenath said that in addition to the prohibition enforcement wing (PEW), five special teams have been formed in the district to crackdown on arrack manufacture. Vigil has been stepped up in areas close to the Kerala such as Palukal, Kollemkode, Kaliyakkavilai, Marthandam and Kulasekaram. In the past it used to be smuggled to Kerala as it was not consumed locally. “The special teams are on the job round the clock,” the SP said, adding that they are preparing a list of former bootleggers from the district. “They will be regularly checked by the police to ensure that they do not get back into the trade,” Sreenath added. Two cases of arrack making were booked by the Virudhunagar district police in the last couple of weeks, in which four people were arrested and more than 200 litres of fermented sap was seized.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/with-tasmac-shops-shut-demand-rises-for-arrack/articleshow/75130976.cms||M K Ananth
April 14, 2020||Thiruvananthapuram||Govt to go ahead with data contract with US company||Thiruvananthapuram: Ignoring the attack by the opposition, the state government decided to go ahead with the ‘controversial’ contract with US-based PR and data analytics company Sprinklr. On Monday night, IT secretary M Sivasankar issued a statement, dismissing allegations of possible misuse of data on Covid-19 suspects in the state. “It is impossible for the state IT department to immediately develop and maintain a foolproof software to handle a crucial data required to initiate post-Covid measures in the state. The government’s intention is to have a customised analytical tool to handle the data and to make required interventions in future,” the IT secretary said. Pointing out that the data is getting stored in Mumbai-based Amazon webserver cloud, “a facility Sprinklr has offered free of cost”, Sivasankar said the data will be shifted to the government-owned server space after enhancing its storage capacity. He also said a non-disclosure clause has been incorporated in the contract ensuring that the state government will have the complete ownership of the data. “The intention is to provide analytical data dashboards to health and local self-government departments to identify possible hot spots during outbreaks in future,” he added. A new directive by the panchayat secretary to local bodies to upload details of people under observation and their families on the government website instead on Sprinklr’s domain had led to the speculation that the government was backtracking from the contract it signed with the US-based company. Earlier, CM Pinarayi Vijayan said there were no basis for doubts regarding the government’s contract with Sprinklr or chances of misuse of data, and said the IT department will make further clarification. “I have no time to waste on this issue. Let the IT department give the clarification,” he said. Opposition leader Ramesh Chennithala said the contract with Sprinklr has become much more mysterious with the CM evading questions on the deal.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/thiruvananthapuram/govt-to-go-ahead-with-data-contract-with-us-company/articleshow/75129406.cms||---
April 14, 2020||Delhi||Two youths test positive, Rangpur Pahadi area ‘contained’||NEW DELHI: The area around Rangpur Pahadi was turned into a containment zone on Monday after two youths from a JJ colony who had attended a religious congregation in Shamli, Uttar Pradesh, tested positive for the novel coronavirus. They have been sent to a quarantine centre in south Delhi. Police were alerted about the youths, aged 17 and 21, after the men approached a private hospital with fever and cough symptoms. It is suspected that they could have contracted the virus at least a week ago after they returned from the Jamaat. Police also found that they had stayed at two different mosques for 40 days before returning to Delhi. Both the men were shifted to the isolation ward following which the police were asked to cordon off the area. The families of the youths have also been shifted to the quarantine centre in south Delhi, while their immediate neighbours been put in home quarantine. During questioning, the men claimed that they returned to Delhi in private buses before the lockdown came into force. The mosques in which they stayed have been identified and the local police informed. Police are also trying to find out if the two youths had met anyone else who had attended the Tabhligi Jamaat. Meanwhile, police said that under the containment rule, no one from the area would be allowed to enter or leave the colony for the next fortnight. The essential goods will be supplied to them through volunteers, they added. Police are also trying to establish whether any of the residents from the Rangpur Pahadi had gone to work at the colonies in Vasant Kunj, as some women from the area work at the apartments in Vasant Kunj.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/2-youths-test-ve-rangpur-pahadi-area-contained/articleshow/75131568.cms||---
April 14, 2020||Ahmedabad||Ahmedabad witnesses more Covid-19 testing, fewer cases||AHMEDABAD: Ahmedabad Municipal Corporation (AMC) officials on Monday said that compared to the very high figures recorded for positive cases detected in the city last week, the figures of past two days is comparatively low primarily due to the high number of tests conducted in close-knit clusters to detect more cases. AMC officials said that after the high of 58 cases recorded in a single day on April 9, the cases are constantly on decline. The positive cases on Monday included both from the identified clusters where the concentration of positive cases and those who had come in contact with them is higher and newer areas. Senior state health officials said that as part of the new strategy, all persons in clusters with any medical symptoms would be tested with the view that those with lower immunity have higher risk of viral infection. Jayanti Ravi, principal secretary (health & family welfare), stated that as part of strategy, they are also going to carry out random sampling in areas outside of clusters and parts of the state from where no cases are recorded so far to make sure whether there are no cases, or the positive cases have not been identified yet. As on Monday evening, Ahmedabad district has cumulatively tested 5,943 samples, which consists of 41.7% of total testing in the state. “Check-posts are also now proving to be a valuable source to identify persons with any symptoms quickly. Moreover, we are coordinating with hospitals, services like EMRI 108 ambulances and private practitioners to report every severe acute respiratory infection (SARI) and influenza like illness (ILI) immediately so that the persons can be tested quickly,” said an official, adding that it’s often seen that if the case comes at a later stage, chances of survival gets reduced.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/city-witnesses-more-testing-fewer-cases/articleshow/75131065.cms||---
April 14, 2020||Madurai||Police officials attempt unique ways to keep people indoors||MADURAI: Police officials are attempting unique ways to spread awareness about Covid-19 to residents in Virudhunagar district. While they have been registering cases and seizing vehicles of those violating the curfew conditions, they are also taking steps to educate people about the importance of staying indoors during the lockdown period. In Aruppukottai Town, police officials have engaged some artists dressed up as ‘Yamadarma’ at places like markets where people gather. The person asks people to stay indoors and maintain social distancing. Similarly, officials from the Seithur police station at Rajapalayam taluk in the district have been creating awareness with a person dressed up like Covid-19 virus. People who are found wandering unnecessarily are warned and sent back. Meanwhile, the Dindigul district administration which has reported more than 50 Ccovid-19 positive cases, has started using LED vehicle to create awareness on a wider range in various parts of the district. The vehicle which is stationed at important places like the bus stand and markets, where people gather, has been stressing the importance of social distancing. Small telefilms on various ways to prevent the disease like hand washing, wearing masks for proper protection and maintaining social distancing in public places is being stressed.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/police-officials-attempt-unique-ways-to-keep-people-indoors/articleshow/75130981.cms||---
April 14, 2020||Madurai||Villagers breach curfew to give jallikattu bull a grand funeral||MADURAI: With social distancing being the need of the hour, even funerals are held as low-key affairs. However, this was not the case when jallikattu-cum-temple bull in Alanganallur breathed its last and its funeral was held. Nearly 100 villagers breached the curfew orders and gave a fitting farewell to their favourite bull. Temple bulls are revered in local villages in and around Alanganallur in Madurai. Mooli, the bull belonging to Chellayee Amman temple in Muduvarpatti village near Alanganallur was one such bull. Mooli remained aggressive in the arena and became a tame animal amid the mourning villagers. “It was a bull that was the pride of our village because it never failed to win prizes at Alanganallur, Palamedu and Avaniapuram jallikattu games in Madurai and other parts of the state,’’ said Periyasamy of the village. Every year, the prizes won by the 10-year-old bull used to be taken around the village and showcased post jallikattu events. Three weeks ago, the animal fell sick and stopped taking food. Though villagers paid great attention to the sick animal and tried to revive it, but it breathed its last on Sunday. Mari, a resident of the village, said that the bull was a deity to them, and that they had to bid him a great farewell. Breaching the lockdown, youngsters carried garlands and placed them on a funeral cask they made for the bull. They took it around the village before burying it.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/villagers-breach-curfew-to-give-jallikattu-bull-a-grand-funeral/articleshow/75130980.cms||---
April 14, 2020||Nagpur||Nagpur University defers all summer exams indefinitely||NAGPUR: Following extension of lockdown till April 30 due to Covid-19 pandemic, the Nagpur University (NU) has deferred its fourth phase of examinations involving about 1.10 lakh students scheduled from April 23. With this, NU’s majority of summer exams, involving over 675 exams and 4.50 lakh students, have been deferred indefinitely till the threat of the virus persists. The last phase had exams of entire engineering faculty along with MA, MSc, MSW and other courses. “As per the directives from the Maharashtra government and subsequent orders from vice-chancellor (additional charge) Murlidhar Chandekar, all examinations slated to be held from April 15 to 30 have been deferred till further notice. It would also include practical and viva-voce exams,” the notification by Board of Examination and Evaluation (BoEE) director Prafulla Sable stated. Another notification by registrar Neeraj Khaty directed NU officials to extend work from home till April 30 in view of new directives by the government. Sable told TOI that the papers scheduled after April 30 would also be pushed further as it would be impossible for any university to immediately conduct them after work resumes. “We would require about 15-20 days for restarting official work as the entire examination section has been locked. We open the offices only for urgent work like sending students’ transcripts, that too just a couple of us. We’re waiting for further directives from the government.” The BoEE director said that even the work of paper setting, evaluation and moderation was stopped following directives from the government. “Other NU offices are working at a meagre staff of 5% to maintain social distancing. Some NU employees are assigned government work in ration shops,” he said. Govt may ask colleges to conduct exams on its level NU officials said that the report prepared by a panel of four vice-chancellors to tide over the crisis had suggested the government to allow colleges to conduct all summer exams at their respective levels. “The state higher and technical education department wouldn’t have any other better alternative. It would soon announce committee’s recommendations, else the entire academic calendar of next year (2020-21) would be adversely affected,” they warned.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/nu-defers-all-summer-exams-indefinitely/articleshow/75130998.cms||Vaibhav Ganjapure
April 14, 2020||Nagpur||PDS grains denied due to technical reason||Yavatmal: Foodgrains under the public distribution system (PDS) is the right of ration card holders. But a good number of citizens are being denied the ration due to technical reason, that too amid the lockdown. According to sources, PDS shop owners are refusing the supply of foodgrains to eligible card holders merely on the ground that they have not registered their cards online. When the citizens requested to get the card registered online, they were told that it takes at least 45 days. APL card holders are also not being given foodgrains here in Yavatmal. When asked for the clarification, district supply officer Shaligram Bharandi said the distribution would start from May 1. Similarly, Jan Dhan account holders are also unable to access Rs500 aid deposited by the Union government in their account. The reason put forth by the bankers is that the account holders haven’t updated their know your customer (KYC) information. Several elderly persons complained that they were sent back empty-handed after spending hours in long queues with the instructions to get the KYC norms fulfilled.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/pds-grains-denied-due-to-technical-reason/articleshow/75128436.cms||---
April 14, 2020||Kozhikode||Special mechanism helped Kasaragod arrest virus spread||KANNUR: Kasaragod district, which has the largest number of Covid-19 cases in the state, was successful in curtailing the spread of the disease, thanks to the special mechanism it launched in the district, which was effectively enforced in the past two weeks, said officials. The district has recorded an appreciable discharge rate and as on Monday, only 93 out of the 166 who tested positive are in hospitals. Releasing ‘Care for Kasaragod’, the details of the strategy enforced in the past two weeks, at the Corona core committee meeting on Monday, Alkesh Kumar Sharma, principal secretary, industries department, who is the special officer to the district in the wake of pandemic situation, said the initial success of the lockdown and social distancing was strictly realized by those who were in the room quarantine. “Due to the collection and quantification of Covid-19 confirmed patients and their contact lists, community outreach has been prevented,” he said. He said the disease was confirmed only among those who came from abroad and those who had the closest contact. Preparation of a proper route map and travel history made it possible to control the disease in the district. However, the stringent measures would continue in the coming days as well, to prevent any community transmission, Sharma said. In the early days of the spread of the virus, seven senior officials of the district were appointed in different areas as incident commanders, and the institutions in each area were acting on their instructions. With the help of police, they also raided markets to prevent price hike, hoarding and black market, he added. Considering the unprecedented situation that emerged in the district, the lockdown was stringently implemented and areas were divided into separate clusters and strict controls were imposed here, he said. Facilities like corona control room, effective corona monitoring system, as also the setting up of hospitals to treat the Covid-19 cases and even the virology laboratory in the Central University, helped the containment process, the official said. On Monday, 12 more people who were under treatment were discharged after consecutive tests turned negative. With this, a total of 73 out of the 166 patients who tested positive for the virus have been discharged, and the remaining 93 are also fast recovering, said the officials. The number of people under observation have also come down in the past few days. There were 11,807 people under surveillance on April 7 but, as on Monday it is 10,056.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kozhikode/special-mechanism-helped-kgod-arrest-virus-spread/articleshow/75129433.cms||P Sudhakaran
April 14, 2020||Delhi||Duty by choice: Delhi cops cook for needy||NEW DELHI: They are posted at the Najafgarh police station and are busy implementing the lockdown rules. But along with their usual duties, four women officers at this southwest Delhi police station are also entering a makeshift kitchen every morning to make puri-sabzi-halwa to feed the needy, mostly migrant labourers, living nearby. Assistant sub-inspector (ASI) Asmita Yadav, head constables Mukesh and Madhu, and constable Vinod reach the police station early in the morning to cook fresh food for around 1,000 people in three-four hours. “Other officers at the police station, both men and women, help us whenever possible as we also have our regular duties,” said Mukesh. “In normal times, 500-700 labourers gather every day in the local Chhawla Chowk for daily-wage work at construction sites. Since the lockdown has been implemented, they are out of work and were looking for food. We then thought of starting a bhandara to give them cooked food,” said Madhu while the other cops nodded in unison. “People usually do a bhandara at home or with their relatives but the amount of pleasure we get from feeding these people can’t be expressed in words,” ASI Yadav told TOI. “Most of them are labourers and many live alone. Dry ration is not of much use to them. Now they know that around noon, they just need to queue up outside the police station to get a meal,” she added. At the entrance of the police station, a tent has been set up as the make-shift kitchen. “We usually make potato curry, puris & halwa but some times we cook jackfruit,” said Mukesh. The distribution begins by noon, keeping in mind social-distancing norms. A table is placed next to a small gate and police personnel arrange plates after asking the crowd about the required numbers. People then come one by one and pick up a plate each.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/duty-by-choice-cops-cook-for-needy/articleshow/75131550.cms||Sakshi Chand
April 14, 2020||Kolhapur||Army jawan arrested for hunting giant squirrels||KOLHAPUR: Sawantwadi forest department has arrested a 25-year-old man for allegedly hunting two Indian giant squirrels (scientific name: Ratufa indica) in Kunkeri village of Sawantwadi taluka. The arrested suspect has been identified as Liladhar Minanath Varadkar, a resident of Kunkeri, Sawantwadi taluka, Sindhudurg district. He was produced before a local court in Sawanatwadi on Sunday, which remanded him in the custody of the forest department for four days. The incident came to light after Varadhkar posted a photo with a rifle in his hand and bodies of two giant squirrels behind him on social media platforms.An environmentalist took note of the post and lodged a complaint with the forest department. The officials of the forest department traced him and arrested him for further investigation. According to the officials, Varadhkar committed the crime on April 4. Clement Ben, chief conservator of forest, Kolhapur division said, “Varadkar works in the Indian Army and is presently posted at Samba in Jammu and Kashmir. He was on leave and had come to his hometown before the lockdown. The concerned officials are investigating the case in details.” Former honorary wildlife warden of the state forest department Rohan Bhate said, “While surfing social media, I came across a status of a person posing with a rifle in his hand with two giant squirrels in the background. I immediately took a screenshot of the status and lodged a complaint with the Sawantwadi deputy conservator of forest and chief conservator of forest, Kolhapur division.” “The giant squirrel is protected under the Wildlife Protection Act, 1972,” said Bhate. The giant squirrel, known as ‘shekru’ in Marathi, is the state animal of Maharashtra. It is found in the Western Ghats and Peninsular India. It is most commonly found in the Bhimaskhankar wildlife sanctuary in Junnar taluka.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolhapur/army-jawan-arrested-for-hunting-giant-squirrels/articleshow/75112860.cms||Vivek Waghmode
April 14, 2020||Kochi||Watch out for symptoms of spoilage on fish: CIFT||KOCHI: Expressing concern at reports of adulterated and stale fish entering the market during Covid-19 pandemic, Central Institute of Fisheries Technology (CIFT) has warned people to be careful while buying fish. “People need to observe signs that could be visible to the naked eye,” said C N Ravishankar, director, CIFT, which is the referral agency for Food Safety Standards Authority of India (FSSAI) for aqua foods. Spoilage of fish is apparent from colour defects, changes in texture, flavour, smell and slime formation. “The onset of spoilage starts immediately after harvest,” the CIFT director said. Spoilage renders the food unacceptable and undesirable for consumption. The intrinsic parameters (type of fish), extrinsic parameters (mode of packaging and storage) as well as spoilage microorganisms determine the extent of spoilage. He said non-availability of testing kits or strips in the market since the lockdown added to the flooding of stale fish. When fish dies, it enters into a stage of rigor mortis, where it loses flexibility due to stiffening of muscle. Onset and duration of rigor mortis are more rapid at high temperature. Quality of frozen fish can be retained if they are frozen in pre-rigor condition. The most practical means of preventing autolytic production of formaldehyde in frozen fishes is storing fish at temperatures below -30°C, ensuring minimal temperature fluctuations and avoiding rough handling or application of physical pressure on the fish prior to freezing. Lipid oxidation and hydrolysis result in generation of unpleasant rancid taste and smell. He said the practical storage life of fish (stored at -18°C) varies from six months to one year. If the fish is within its pre-determined storage life, the quality is retained even after thawing. But, to ascertain this, there must be absolute transparency on the part of the seller. The procurement details must be traceable to the original packer, the upstream documentation related to production and freezing must be readily available, he said. During the time of fishing restriction, its unethical to sell previously frozen fish as freshly caught fish without declaring traceability details. The mode and practice of thawing also significantly influences safety and quality of fish.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/watch-out-for-symptoms-of-spoilage-on-fish-cift/articleshow/75129448.cms||Sudha Nambudiri
April 14, 2020||Madurai||Safety gear given to staff in containment||MADURAI: The Madurai Corporation has issued safety gears to its employees who are involved in selling vegetables at containment zones in order to protect themselves from Covid-19. Officials said that fresh kits are being provided to those involved in works in the containment zones on a regular-basis. There are four containment zones in the city at Melamadai, Mahaboobpalayam, Narimedu and Thabal Thanthi Nagar. While Madurai Corporation has been selling vegetables and fruits in the city using more than 100 vehicles, only corporation employees are involved in the work in the containment zones. Volunteers roped in from various organisations are working in other areas. A health official from Madurai Corporation said that the disposable protection gear covers the body till knee. Head and face are being covered using separate cover and mask to protect themselves from Covid-19 virus. It is ensured that they also wear gloves. Three vehicles have been allotted each for the four containment zones. There will be three workers in each vehicle including the driver. All of them have been given the safety gear.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/safety-gear-given-to-staff-in-containment/articleshow/75130987.cms||---
April 14, 2020||Ahmedabad||Ahmedabad lockdown: Kids play outside, parents booked||AHMEDABAD: If you allow your children to outside to play during this Covid-19 lockdown, you could face legal action. This happened in the Ghatlodia area of city, where cops booked six parents on Saturday, after their children were found playing in the common plot. Senior police officials said that such action will be taken against parents who do not keep their children indoors. The six Ghatlodia residents were booked after their children, four boys and two girls between 10 and 17, were found playing together in the common plot of their housing society. According to the FIR filed by head constable Dipaksinh Sardar, the cops had on Friday evening flown a drone over the area to check whether the lockdown rules were being followed. When the drone flew over Ami and Asopalav Apartments in Ghatlodia, police saw the children playing. Their pictures were taken and the cops later identified and summoned their parents. On not getting a satisfactory explanation, the cops booked six parents for violating the notification of the police commissioner and under the Epidemic Diseases Act. An official of city police said the action is on the lines of traffic offences where parents are booked for offences by children. “We first cautioned parents telling them not to allow their children to go out in the open as they could catch the virus. As no one heeded our advice and the and the children were seen playing in the same area, we booked the parents to set an example. This will continue in other areas of the city as well,” said an official. Police have also been monitoring cctv footage to identify such children. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/kids-play-outside-parents-booked/articleshow/75131006.cms||---
April 14, 2020||Madurai||Sanitary workers demand ‘rightful’ wage for their work||MADURAI: Sanitary worker P Sadayan, 50, from Karadipatti village in Madurai has been working for 20 years, earning a monthly income of Rs 6, 400. Though he finds it difficult to make both ends meet with that amount, he continues to do the work for the same wage as it is the only option left for him. Those who joined the work two years ago too earn the same wage. More than 4,000 sanitary employees and overhead tank operators working in 13 village panchayat unions in Madurai district. Wage provided to tank operators are only pittance. R Pandiarajan, 54, one such tank operator is getting a wage of Rs 140 a day, which is inadequate to run his family. The wage of Rs 4,200 will be provided at any day in the month. He married off his two married off. However, he does not have a way to repay loans taken for the marriages. There is no employment benefit, including provident fund, meaning they will not get any money when they retire. The incidents of sanitary workers honored by people for their service in the wake of covid-19 only a matter of laughter. They say that they were not amused when the whole nation clapped and cheered for their service upon request from the Prime Minister. “We do not want such honours and appreciations. We just want a decent salary. We have been fighting for justice for several years, but nothing has changed,” said A Kondavellai, state organiser of panchayat sanitation employees and overhead tank operators association.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/sanitary-workers-demand-rightful-wage-for-their-work/articleshow/75130988.cms||---
April 14, 2020||Nagpur||Family hid travel history of 1st deceased’s nephew||Nagpur: The city’s first Covid-19 deceased’s 53-year-old nephew, who runs a Haj and Umrah tour agency, has emerged as the only person so far to have extensive travel history since February. Surprisingly the family and close contacts from Satranjipura had kept this information away from Nagpur Municipal Corporation (NMC). Till date, NMC is clueless about the source of infection to the 68-year-old Satranjipura man who passed away on April 5. The deceased and most of those so far found positive, except the tour operator, have no travel history. NMC containment team relied on statements of 68-year-old victim’s family and close contacts. NMC officials had ‘cushion works’ in their records as the profession of tour operator. He was picked up on April 6 and tested positive on April 11. He had taken a group of seven clients for Umrah tour to Mecca in Saudi Arabia from February 4 to 14. He then travelled to Rae Bareilly with his seven friends by car on March 19, a close relative confirmed to TOI. A friend’s marriage, solemnized at Bareilly, too seems to have gone unreported. It was only after TOI tip off that NMC team discovered the man had travelled to Mecca and Bareilly. Fortunately, the groom, the bride and baraatis were already quarantined in MLA Hostel as they were traced in Delhi digital list. They too have been tested and results are awaited. The containment team also contacted the tour operator’s friends who had gone to Bareilly. They too are likely to be tested and quarantined. No decision on the Umrah pilgrims was taken. Tour operator’s wife, three children and mother have been tested and are under quarantine. The tour operator is son-in-law of the deceased’s elder brother. They used to meet frequently. Two deaths in the country have been linked to Saudi Arabia pilgrimage tours. On March 11, a 76-year-old man, who became India's first Covid-19 casualty, had travelled to Saudi Arabia. On March 14, a 45-year-old passed away in Buldhana, had no travel history but his locality had many people who had travelled to Saudi Arabia. Soon after the deceased passed away, the tour operator reportedly pulled down all promotional material from social media. The website of the tour and travels too has temporarily shut. Some community members found this suspicious. Initially, NMC had assumed the newphew had contracted the infection during last rites of his uncle. But others who attended the funeral didn’t test positive. With the travel history coming to fore, that theory is being ruled out. NMC addl medical offer health Dr Pravin Gantawar didn't answer TOI’s queries. Unanswered queries * NMC knew about travel agency of nephew but didn't check his passport or travel details from other agencies * Why did NMC rely on verbal submissions of suspects * Bareilly marriage connection wasn't investigated too * No plan to trace seven Umrah pilgrims whom the tour operator accompanied||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/family-hid-travel-history-of-1st-deceaseds-nephew/articleshow/75130392.cms||Sarfaraz Ahmed
April 14, 2020||Ahmedabad||Some docs want tests for all patients||Ahmedabad: It was a case of routine surgery for the doctors at Civil Hospital a couple of days ago when a patient from Sarkhej had come with a complaint of severe injury after fall. The doctors decided to carry out an operation and the patient became stable. It later turned out that the person had hidden the fact that he had come from an area under quarantine. Upon suspicion, the doctors got him tested for Covid-19 and he tested positive. Sources close to the development said that four doctors, two nurses and a medical helper got quarantined after the instance. After this incident, a faction of doctors at Civil Hospital, Gujarat’s biggest public sector hospital, held that all the patients who come to the hospital for any medical procedure should be tested first. “First of all, the volume of cases at the hospital is very high and even one positive person who is unchecked can spread the infection to a large population. Second, the medical staff is working round the clock for treatment of both Covid-19 and other patients and any quarantine of the staff can wear the strength thin. Third, it’s come to our notice that sometimes the persons hide their actual address fearing that they would be quarantined,” said a medical official at the hospital on condition of anonymity.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/some-docs-want-tests-for-all-patients/articleshow/75131059.cms||---
April 14, 2020||Delhi||Business on hold, Delhi traders stare at uncertain future||NEW DELHI: The 21-day lockdown may have helped India slow down the spread of the novel coronavirus, but city traders, both wholesale and retail, are reporting major losses due to the restrictions imposed to implement it. While the demand for essential commodities has increased, non-essential items are left locked in shops and godowns. Even Sadar Bazaar, one of the major wholesale markets in the country, is lying desolate and the situation in other markets is not much different. Essential-item traders are facing a different problem. Suresh Bhargava, a trader who has a godown at the Khari Baoli market that mainly handles essential commodities, said, “People like me are totally dependent on labourers for transport, supply and even arranging goods. As all my labourers have left the city, I can’t even check the condition of the stock at the godown. It could have been damaged by pests. I don’t know how much loss I will suffer.” Traders are also clueless about how to stay afloat in the long run as the lockdown is unlikely to get over after April 14. “The government is helping many sections of the society, but so far we haven’t got anything specific,” said Sanjiv Mehra, president of the Khan Market Traders’ Association. The shops can manage for one or two months, but it will be difficult to pay the staff after that if there’s no business, Mehra said. “We should at least be allowed to accept online orders for non-essential items,” he added. Many traders also claimed that the supply chain would definitely get affected as the manufacturing units were not operating and the markets were not getting any fresh supply. “As soon as the lockdown is lifted, everyone will rush to the market to get things of their requirement. The government needs to make plans in advance to avoid any chaos due to lack of fresh supply,” said a trader at Karol Bagh. For some traders, the lockdown has come as a double blow as their business was already affected by the February riots. “We are going through a phase of uncertainty. We can’t be ruthless to those dependent on us but we also need support to survive; else the entire economy will suffer,” said Ashok Randhawa, a trader at the Sarojini Nagar market.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/business-on-hold-traders-stare-at-uncertain-future/articleshow/75131599.cms||Vibha Sharma
April 14, 2020||Patna||Create job opportunities in rural areas: CM to officials||Patna: Bihar CM Nitish Kumar on Monday issued an order to release Rs50 crore more from the Chief Minister Relief Fund for providing necessary assistance to the people stranded in and outside the state due to the nationwide lockdown. This amount would be used by the state’s disaster management department (DMD) for helping out the migrant workers and other people either stranded outside Bihar or put up at quarantine or disaster relief centres inside the state. The CM had earlier provided Rs100 crore from the CM relief Fund to the DMD for same purpose. “Today’s Rs 50 crore is in addition to Rs100 crore provided earlier,” an official at chief minister office said. The CM also directed the officials to create employment opportunities in rural areas by resuming MGNREGS or other state government schemes like the Saat Nischay (seven resolves) and Jal-Jivan-Hariyali abhiyan, though in restricted manner. Any individual willing to work be issued passes for the purpose from an official nominated by the district magistrate concerned, the CM said at a review meeting through videoconferencing with all divisional commissioners and IGs/DIGs of police. Nitish asked them to maintain proper coordination between the districts falling under their jurisdiction. Lakhs of grounded citizens have been provided help in at least 47 state-funded relief centres operating in far-off places, including Delhi, Karnataka, Tamil Nadu, West Bengal and Sikkim. The officials apprised Nitish about strictly enforcing lockdown, intense checking at interstate borders, sealing of India-Nepal borders, maintaining of social distancing in markets besides monitoring those living in quarantine centres. “We all are collectively working to fight against coronavirus. People must practice social distancing for which they (officials) need to make them aware,” Nitish said and gave a direction to publicize about social distancing with the help of mike. Intense checking of vehicles should be carried out at interstate borders and intense screening and testing of people coming from outside the state should be ensured so that not a single suspected Covid-19 patient is left unidentified, Nitish told the officials. He again appealed to the people having even a little apprehension of Covid infection to visit any testing centre in order to ensure safety and security of their family members and others living in their surrounding.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/create-job-opportunities-in-rural-areas-cm-to-officials/articleshow/75129456.cms||---
April 14, 2020||Agra||Man with Covid-19-like symptoms dies in Hathras||Agra: A 32-year-old man, who was admitted to Hathras district hospital’s isolation ward on Sunday with Covid-19-like symptoms, died on Monday morning. His sample was sent for testing to Aligarh’s Jawahar Lal Nehru Medical College and the report is still awaited. Confirming this, Hathras DM Praveen Kumar Laxkar said the man, who hailed from Hathras’s Nayabans, was admitted to the district hospital on Sunday after his condition started to deteriorate. He breathed his last at 11am on Monday. The DM told TOI that the man was admitted at an isolation ward since he had a history of Cerebral meningitis, for which he was being treated, till recently, at Agra’s Paras hospital where several patients had been found positive for Covid-19. The said hospital was sealed by the administration on April 6. The DM added it is still not certain, whether the deceased was infected with Covid-19, but as a precautionary measure his body was "sanitised" before being sent to a mortuary. Also, samples of two persons, who came along with him, were taken for testing. Chief medical officer Dr Brijesh Rathore said that the deceased was admitted to Paras hospital on March 26 and returned to Hathras on April 4 after being treated for brain infection. As his name was mentioned in the list of people, who were being traced, he was admitted to the Covid-19 ward.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/agra/man-with-covid-19-like-symptoms-dies-in-hathras/articleshow/75129453.cms||---
April 14, 2020||Jammu||Mumbai: 44 Iran evacuees flown to Jammu and Kashmir, applaud naval facility||MUMBAI: Forty-four evacuees from Tehran, all Jammu & Kashmir residents, were finally airlifted from Ghatkopar’s naval quarantine facility and flown to Srinagar on Sunday. The 44 individuals, including 24 women, had spent 30 days in the facility since March 13; they had ested negative for Covid-19 on March 28. They were to be airlifted two days later but the authorities in Srinagar did not give them permission. They thus stayed on for 15 more days. “The arrangements were made and they were flown on an Indian Air Force (IAF) C-130 aircraft to Srinagar. For their journey, each evacuee was given packed food, refreshments and two hand-stitched masks by the naval quarantine facility at Ghatkopar (West),” said the defence spokesperson. The 44, all residents of Alakhnath, Chandrakot Kargil, Wadi, in J&K, were stuck in Iran, a Covid-19 hotspot, after a pilgrimage. An Iran Air flight brought them to Mumbai. “We silently and successfully completed the task of quarantining the 44 evacuees. They spent 30 days at the facility,” said the spokesperson. “I specially applaud the Indian Navy’s efforts to take care of all of us,” said tour operator Mohammed Ibrahim Sofi. Homemaker Shaheena Bhano said, “A team of naval medical staff worked tirelessly. We were supported by conservancy personnel. The food was prepared under strict supervision and customized. We were made comfortable with a library, TV, indoor games, a gym and even cricket gear.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jammu/44-iran-evacuees-flown-to-jk-applaud-naval-facility/articleshow/75135009.cms||Narayan Namboodiri
April 14, 2020||Madurai||Zonal special officers hold consultations with dist reps||MADURAI: The zonal-level special officers, who have been appointed to coordinate with district administrations to monitor the prompt contact tracing of Covid-19 positive cases on a day-to-day basis, arrived at their respective zones and held consultation meetings on Monday. In Madurai, Minister for Revenue, Disaster Management R B Udayakumar, held consultations in the presence of zonal special officer C Kamaraj with 27 trade organisations to ensure uninterrupted supply of essential commodities to the people during the lockdown period. Speaking at the meeting, the minister said that the lockdown was in force in the state, to ensure that the Covid-19 disease did not affect the people. “People’s lives are of utmost importance to the government and all measures are being taken to ensure that they are not affected in any way, and the government is implementing many proactive measures to ensure the same,’’ he said. The government had divided the districts into zones for better management during the crisis period, and Madurai, Ramanathapuram and Sivaganga had been designated as one zone. Former district collector of Madurai C Kamaraj had been appointed as special officer in charge of this zone. Trade organisations were urged to work with the district administrations and cooperate with them to ensure the free flow of goods into and out of the district so that the people were not affected. The minister clarified that the government was not trying to prevent the volunteers and NGOs from serving the people in need during this period. “We have only asked them to do it in co-ordination with the district administrations for better management of the help,’’ he said. Members of the Tamil Nadu Chamber of Commerce and Industry handed over a 31 lakh by cheque to the corona relief fund to the minister in the presence of Madurai collector T G Vinay. A similar meeting was also held in Tirunelveli zone covering Tirunelveli, Tuticorin, Kanyakumari, Tenkasi and Virudhunagar. Special officer M Karunakaran said that 56 people had tested positive in Tirunelveli and one of them had been treated successfully and discharged from hospital till date. Collector Shilpa Prabakar Satish said that over 17,600 houses had been quarantined in eight hotspots in the district, where containment plans are in place.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/zonal-special-officers-hold-consultations-with-dist-reps/articleshow/75130992.cms||---
April 14, 2020||Srinagar||Mumbai: 44 Iran evacuees flown to Jammu and Kashmir, applaud naval facility||MUMBAI: Forty-four evacuees from Tehran, all Jammu & Kashmir residents, were finally airlifted from Ghatkopar’s naval quarantine facility and flown to Srinagar on Sunday. The 44 individuals, including 24 women, had spent 30 days in the facility since March 13; they had ested negative for Covid-19 on March 28. They were to be airlifted two days later but the authorities in Srinagar did not give them permission. They thus stayed on for 15 more days. “The arrangements were made and they were flown on an Indian Air Force (IAF) C-130 aircraft to Srinagar. For their journey, each evacuee was given packed food, refreshments and two hand-stitched masks by the naval quarantine facility at Ghatkopar (West),” said the defence spokesperson. The 44, all residents of Alakhnath, Chandrakot Kargil, Wadi, in J&K, were stuck in Iran, a Covid-19 hotspot, after a pilgrimage. An Iran Air flight brought them to Mumbai. “We silently and successfully completed the task of quarantining the 44 evacuees. They spent 30 days at the facility,” said the spokesperson. “I specially applaud the Indian Navy’s efforts to take care of all of us,” said tour operator Mohammed Ibrahim Sofi. Homemaker Shaheena Bhano said, “A team of naval medical staff worked tirelessly. We were supported by conservancy personnel. The food was prepared under strict supervision and customized. We were made comfortable with a library, TV, indoor games, a gym and even cricket gear.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/srinagar/44-iran-evacuees-flown-to-jk-applaud-naval-facility/articleshow/75135012.cms||Narayan Namboodiri
April 14, 2020||Mumbai||Mumbai: 44 Iran evacuees flown to Jammu and Kashmir, applaud naval facility||MUMBAI: Forty-four evacuees from Tehran, all Jammu & Kashmir residents, were finally airlifted from Ghatkopar’s naval quarantine facility and flown to Srinagar on Sunday. The 44 individuals, including 24 women, had spent 30 days in the facility since March 13; they had ested negative for Covid-19 on March 28. They were to be airlifted two days later but the authorities in Srinagar did not give them permission. They thus stayed on for 15 more days. “The arrangements were made and they were flown on an Indian Air Force (IAF) C-130 aircraft to Srinagar. For their journey, each evacuee was given packed food, refreshments and two hand-stitched masks by the naval quarantine facility at Ghatkopar (West),” said the defence spokesperson. The 44, all residents of Alakhnath, Chandrakot Kargil, Wadi, in J&K, were stuck in Iran, a Covid-19 hotspot, after a pilgrimage. An Iran Air flight brought them to Mumbai. “We silently and successfully completed the task of quarantining the 44 evacuees. They spent 30 days at the facility,” said the spokesperson. “I specially applaud the Indian Navy’s efforts to take care of all of us,” said tour operator Mohammed Ibrahim Sofi. Homemaker Shaheena Bhano said, “A team of naval medical staff worked tirelessly. We were supported by conservancy personnel. The food was prepared under strict supervision and customized. We were made comfortable with a library, TV, indoor games, a gym and even cricket gear.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/44-iran-evacuees-flown-to-jk-applaud-naval-facility/articleshow/75130360.cms||Narayan Namboodiri
April 14, 2020||Ahmedabad||3 face action for sleeping on terrace||Punil KalawadiaAhmedabad: Three Chandlodia residents were photographed by a drone while they were resting on their apartment terrace on Thursday evening, and were identified by a police team that arrived when they were ready to sleep. The FIR in the matter was registered on Sunday after preliminary investigation and the three men were arrested on Sunday and released on bail from Ghatlodia police station. According to the FIR registered in the matter, the three men, all residents of Ghanshyam Complex near Chandlodia bridge were booked for violation of lockdown norms. With the heat hovering around 40C for the last couple of days, the men had gone to sleep in the open on the terrace of the apartment. At that time Ghatlodia police were flying a drone over the area. When the drone flew over Ghanshyam complex, the men on the terrace were noticed and their photographs clicked by the drone. Following this a team from Ghatlodia police went to the complex and identified the men. During primary questioning, they told cops that they were finding it difficult to tolerate the heat and had thus gone to the terrace to rest. They also said that they were under the impression that there was a ban on gathering of four or more persons, and it would not matter as they were only three in in number. However, a police official said that the state home department notification bans any unnecessary movement during the lockdown. Ghatlodia police booked the trio for disobeying the notification of the state home department and also invoked relevant sections of the Epidemic Diseases Act.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/3-face-action-for-sleeping-on-terrace/articleshow/75131003.cms||---
April 14, 2020||Madurai||‘Stopping direct supply of essentials through NGOs a disappointing move’||MADURAI: NGOs and activists, who have been actively engaged in handing over food and essential supplies to the needy, have expressed disappointment over the state government’s intervention and direction asking them to hand it over to the district administration or local body and not to directly hand it over to beneficiaries. “No other state has come out with such a direction. Their argument that COVID-19 could spread when essential commodities are handed over to beneficiaries is unacceptable. The Rs 1,000 dole given by the government for a family per month is insufficient to meet the price escalation of commodities,” A Kathir, executive director of NGO Evidence said. Kathir said that international aid cannot be expected during this catastrophe as it is a global pandemic and local help should not be stopped. “The government should encourage NGOs and work with them. The government could regulate the way it is done,” he added. The government is only discouraging people from helping others in the time of distress, said rural district secretary of the democratic youth federation of India, S Balakrishnan. The organization has reached out with relief materials like rice worth Rs 50,000 to disabled people, transgender people and widowed women in Alangulam, Anaiyur, Nagamalai Pudukottai and Pothumbu villages in Madurai. There would not be need of people to pitch in to help others if government had extended all required help. “Preventing people from helping others is clearly political vendetta. Revenue officials are not willing to work on the ground as they, too, are gripped by the fear of COVID-19 ,” he said. “We find it difficult to mobilize relief materials as police register case against us and seize our bikes,” Balakrishnan added. K R Dison, an activist from Nagercoil, who has been serving food to 150 people per day, fuming over the direction of the government, said that those like him have stepped in as the government has limited resources in terms of manpower to reach out to those in the rural masses. “We are told there is a flying squad to stop people like us from directly distributing,” he said. He added that a few likeminded people have planned to meet Kanyakumari district collector Prashant M Wadnere on Tuesday and explain the issue and also how enthusiasts like him can work along with the government so that benefits reach the deserving masses.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/stopping-direct-supply-of-essentials-through-ngos-a-disappointing-move/articleshow/75130994.cms||---
April 14, 2020||Agra||With 35 patients in a day, Agra, UP's Covid epicentre, now has 139 cases||Agra: Agra, Uttar Pradesh’s Covid-19 epicentre, recorded 35 new cases on Monday, its highest single day hike ever, taking the total tally to 139 in the district — which is twice the number of cases in Noida which stands second in the state. Fresh patients in the district also included a junior doctor who had been serving at the isolation ward of SN Medical College (SNMC). In the wake of the rising number of Covid-19 cases in the district, the local administration has shifted 20 patients to similar facilities in the neighbouring districts to manage capacity. While 10 patients were earlier shifted to Vrindavan community health centre (CHC), another 10 were shifted to Mainpuri’s Bhogaon CHC on Monday. Meanwhile, the neighbouring Kasganj for the first time reported presence of Covid-19 infection, as three local residents tested positive. In Firozabad, the cases rose to 18, as two fresh cases were found positive. A staff nurse of a private hospital in Mathura tested positive for Covid-19 on Monday, taking the tally of patients in the district to five. Out of the 35 positive cases confirmed in Agra on Monday, 14 are direct contacts of a Fatehpur Sikri-based tourist guide who tested positive in Mathura on April 10. Five cases are related to staffers of a private hospital and their family members, another five are related to the family members of the patients of a private clinic where a doctor had also tested positive last week. The remaining are contacts of people who tested positive earlier, including those who had attended the Tablighi Jamaat event at Delhi’s Nizamuddin. Maintaining that the areas where these new patients lived have been sealed and the residents are being screened, chief medical officer Dr Mukesh Kumar Vats said, “It is very unfortunate that one junior doctor has got Covid-19 infection. We will be sending samples of all the doctors and paramedic staff serving at the isolation ward for lab testing." With 14 new cases surfacing in one day, Fatehpur Sikri emerged as a major hotspot in the district. The two major hotspots in the city include a private hospital having 21 positive cases linked to it and a clinic in the Ghatiya Azam Khan locality with 10 cases linked to it. District magistrate Prabhu N Singh said, “The number of active cases in the district is 124. All the people who had come in contact with any Covid-19 patient are being screened. The area in the vicinity of the places where the infected people were staying is being sanitized. So far, we had marked 49 places in the district as coronavirus epicentres. Out of these, 10 have been neutralized. We are doing a massive sampling to identify all the infected patients and send them to institutional quarantine.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/agra/with-35-patients-in-a-day-agra-ups-covid-epicentre-now-has-139-cases/articleshow/75129457.cms||Deepak Lavania
April 14, 2020||Bengaluru||Karnataka government may shelve big-ticket projects||BENGALURU: Several big-ticket infrastructure projects, with overall proposed investment of at least Rs 30,000 crore, may either be scrapped or shelved due to the double whammy of economic slowdown and Covid-19 outbreak. The finance department has ordered a relook of several mega infrastructure projects based on availability of finances, long-term financial viability and relevance. Bengaluru could bear the brunt with infrastructure projects worth over Rs 27,000 crore, including elevated corridors, to decongest the city on the anvil. The project was envisaged for three years from the current fiscal. The government also proposed spending Rs 1,000 crore to develop over 100 villages under BBMP limits. When chief minister BS Yediyurappa announced it, he hope for central assistance but that’s unlikely considering the Union government is itself under serious financial stress. Deputy chief minister CN Ashwath Narayan said: “It was a public private partnership. We’ll gauge the situation when the lockdown ends and proceed accordingly. No matter the challenges, we have to give people what they need.” According to government sources, the finance department has issued directions that funds be released only for Covid-19 relief and this may stay for at least three months. With fund crunch affecting salaries of 6.5 lakh government personnel, major projects may take off only next year, said senior bureaucrats. The government has decided to purchase produce of farmers, including milk and tur dal, to give them some relief. Finance department additional chief secretary ISN Prasad said the government will evaluate its financial position and decide the course of action. “We’re facing a tough time (financially),” he said. Major impactTourism minister C T Ravi said, "The tourism department is badly hit with no major activities – be they development or promotion for at least the next six months".||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/govt-may-shelve-big-ticket-projects/articleshow/75130942.cms||Sandeep Moudgal
April 14, 2020||Nagpur||How much GST can you pay, state govt asks bizmen||Nagpur: At a time when the lockdown has hit tax collection hard, Maharashtra’s GST department wants the taxpayers to intimate how much they would be paying so that the state government is able to draw it plans to fight the pandemic. In a communication sent to a cross section of taxpayers, the department has requested them to share information about the GST they are likely to pay for the month of March. The GST for sales undertaken in March, that should have been paid in April, has been deferred till June. However, by knowing how much tax would be paid for the month, the department wants to assess how much would come into its kitty. Financial advisors TOI talked to said that they are not able to access the data due to the lockdown. Had it been possible to give an estimate of the tax payable, the returns itself would have been filed rather. One of the messages accessed by TOI reads, “the state is making planned efforts in preparing budgets and estimates of the funds required to fight with corona pandemic emergency. In these state of affairs, you are requested to provide the probable date and details of payment of SGST for the month of March.” As the government has extended the deadline for filing GST returns, the tax that would have come between April 20 and 25 will only be received after June 30 — the new date for filing returns. Under the GST regime, filing of returns and payment of tax go together. Sanjeev Kumar, the state’s GST commissioner, told TOI that the closure is expected to take a toll on the tax collection. “The exercise is expected to get a basic idea of the tax that can be generated. This is also part of the regular exercise conducted by the department’s officials,” he said. Pritam Mahure, a chartered accountant from Pune, said it may not be right at this juncture to expect the businessmen to come up with details of the tax they may be paying. “Lockdown has hit the financial services too. The taxpayers will have to depend on the service providers like chartered accountants for providing the details. However, even the professionals are not working due to the shut down,” he said. “If we were in a position to get the estimate at this juncture, then even the returns would have been filed according to the earlier deadline. Just because things have come to a standstill, even the dates of filing tax returns have been extended,” said a chartered accountant from Nagpur.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/how-much-gst-can-you-pay-state-govt-asks-bizmen/articleshow/75128481.cms||Shishir Arya
April 14, 2020||Patna||Bihar: Rs 200 fine for use of tobacco item in public places||PATNA: State health department on Monday banned consumption of any tobacco product in public place. Those violating this order will be fined Rs200 or sentenced to six months in jail or both. An order in this regard was issued by principal secretary (health) Sanjay Kumar to contain the spread of communicable diseases, especially amid Covid-19 outbreak. “Spitting risks public health and also spreads communicable diseases. Those who consume tobacco are in the habit of spitting here and there. Spitting could further spread diseases like coronavirus, encephalitis, tuberculosis and swine flu,” a press release issued by Sanjay said. In the time of epidemic, if anyone found intentionally violating the order will be punished under section 268 and 269 of IPC. As per the press release, “Consumption of any kind of tobacco product, including cigarette, khaini, gutka or pan masala, is prohibited in all government and non-government offices, educational institutes and police stations.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/rs-200-fine-for-use-of-tobacco-item-in-public-places/articleshow/75129478.cms||---
April 14, 2020||Goa||Mapusa complex pulled up for releasing sewage||Saligao: The residents of Peddem in Mapusa have raised concerns over the discharge of sewage from the broken sanitation chamber of a residential complex, which could pose a severe health hazard to the residents of the locality. Locals say that the chamber has been broken for nearly a month, and the foul smelling sewage has been flowing into the street. Despite repeated complaints, the municipality has done nothing about it, they say. “The sewage flowing onto the street from the broken chamber could pose a serious health hazard. In wake of the coronavirus outbreak, extra precautions should be taken to ensure clean surroundings,” a local, Shekar Naik told TOI. “I request the municipality to step in and send notices to the representatives of the complex to get the chamber repaired immediately,” he added. Chairperson of the Mapusa Municipal Council Ryan Braganza said that a notice has been served to the owner of the complex, for releasing the sewage. “It is the duty of the of the owners of the flats to repair the chamber; they cannot depend on the municipality for everything,” Braganza said .||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/mapusa-complex-pulled-up-for-releasing-sewage/articleshow/75131008.cms||---
April 14, 2020||Bareilly||Burglary at ‘Covid hotspot’ house, valuables missing||Bareilly: A house of a Covid-19 family whose six members were found positive recently was said to have been unlocked and allegedly burgled, on Monday. Alarmingly, the house is situated in Bareilly's Subhash Nagar locality which has been completely sealed and heavily guarded by police for the past few days and identified as one of the "Covid hotspots" in the state. Members of the family after the infection were isolated for treatment. Their neighbours found locks of the empty house broken. Burglars are said to have decamped with valuables. The extent of theft couldn’t be ascertained yet. Apparently, two members of the family were discharged from a Covid-19 facility on Monday. Police came to know about the neighbours' discovery at 2pm and initially didn’t enter the house as they thought the place was not properly sanitised. Health department, however, claimed that they had sanitised the house's interior on March 29 and had even shot a video of it. The cops later entered the house and confirmed the burglary. The incident has also raised questions over police's vigil in the area. Six members of the family were recently tested positive and admitted to district hospital for treatment. Notably, police have already sealed the Subhash Nagar locality from its 25 entry and exit points after a few Covid-19 cases were found here and the entire area is being monitored with drones. The lock of the house was reportedly intact on Sunday night which suggests that the robbery took place sometime late on Sunday, the police said. Additional SP (City) Ravindra Kumar said, “We believe that the accused is from the same locality as all the entry and exit points are sealed by us and no one has moved out. We are scanning the footage of suspects recorded by CCTV cameras in the area. We'll achieve a breakthrough in this case soon. And we will register an FIR once the family is able to ascertain the missing articles and money from the house and gives us a written complaint.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/burglary-at-covid-hotspot-house-valuables-missing/articleshow/75129492.cms||Kanwardeep Singh
April 14, 2020||Nagpur||Citizens welcome police route marches as means of reining in violators||Nagpur: The police route marches, a routine feature in sensitive locations to caution citizens against violating law and order, seem to be turning into a popular public affair in the backdrop of the national lockdown to break the Covid-19 chain. The latest trend in the city is citizens showering petals and applauding cops passing through lanes during the route march to enforce lockdown under section 144. On Saturday, residents of Tanga Stand at Itwari welcomed cops with ‘rangolis’ on the road and showering of flowers and applause. In some areas, residents also chanted ‘Bharat mata ki jai’ from balconies as cops passed through. City police chief BK Upadhyay said the public adulation of the route marches is symbolic of the fight against Covid-19 being a collective effort of police and masses. “This lockdown bandobast is a completely different ball game. Here, police and public are on the same mental platform,” he said. “Showering of petals and clapping is nothing but public realization and show of sympathy for police, who are risking their lives to stay out and attend to sensitive duties,” said the CP. Senior inspector Jayesh Bhandarkar of Tehsil police station, who took out a 4km route march from Gandhi Chowk to Bhavsar Chowk, said residents demand route marches as they feel it instills fear among violators. Home minister Anil Deshmukh too has tweeted praise for the route marches to enforce lockdown. The route marches were started when communal messages on social media threatened to spill over on to the streets. Sanjay Khule, trader and resident of Itwari, who welcomed the Tehsil police route march a day ago, said it was a spontaneous decision. “It is for the first time we are seeing police on the road round the clock without any added benefit or interest. They are purely on social work mode along with policing and hence are getting wide appreciation,” he said. Khule said some enthusiastic youngsters had drawn the ‘rangolis’ and a friend, Pawan Hatwar, had arranged for flowers from his farm at Pardi, where he had gone to bring vegetables. “A constable friend had informed me about the route march, but no one requested any special treatment,” he said. Many localities have demanded similar route marches to rein in violators on the streets. “In Bezonbagh, police will get similar adulations as citizens want more police presence here,” said Snehal Alhad, principal of a government-aided girls’ residential school. Some citizens also felt that route march would unnecessarily increase the burden on the cops, who are already toiling to reign in the violators. Meanwhile, Joint CP Ravindra Kadam visited the containment zone at Santranjipura to supervise security there. He also spoke to the health department and NMC personnel present here. After the 14 new positive cases were reported from city and outskirts, city police now have two more containment areas to seal off apart from Santranjipura and Mominpura. “We are now preparing to seal off Bairagipura and localities around Dragon Palace after the fresh positive cases came to fore,” said city police corona cell in charge Shweta Khedkar. City police have taken action against 220 violators, including 82 for stepping out without police permission. Around 37 vehicles were also seized.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/citizens-welcome-police-route-marches-as-means-of-reining-in-violators/articleshow/75131046.cms||Soumitra Bose
April 14, 2020||Patna||Don’t take school fees for March, April: Bihar govt||PATNA: The state education department on Monday directed all private schools not to take any fee, including transportation charges, for the lockdown period of March and April. Only those schools conducting online classes have been allowed to take tuition fee. The instructions were issued after the department received complaints regarding the schools pressurising parents to pay fees for the new academic session 2020-21. The department warned private schools of strict action for demanding fees for the lockdown period. Director of primary education Ranjit Kumar Singh said, “Schools, which are providing online classes, can take tuition fee only. Besides, other charges for March and April should be waived off.” He also said private schools can’t force parents to pay the tuition fee for online classes and other study materials. “The schools should give a proper time period for fee payment, without charging any fine,” he said. The directive came as a respite for many parents, who were not sure about paying the fees being demanded by the schools. Kaushik Anand, who has two school-going kids, said, “It is a big relief for many parents. I have not paid fees despite receiving several notices from the school. The school is not only asking for tuition fees but other charges as well.” Pragya Mehta, whose daughter studies in Class VI, said their family income has reduced sharply owing to the lockdown. “My husband is an entrepreneur and there is minimal income due to the lockdown. State government has taken the right decision by imposing restrictions on school fees,” she said. Mary Alphonsa, principal of Don Bosco Academy, told this newspaper that the school administration would soon upload a notice to its official website regarding fees. “Following the directive of education department, we will take only tuition fees from parents. The other charges for March and April will be waived off. We will adjust the maintenance fees once the schools reopen,” she said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/dont-take-school-fees-for-march-apr-govt/articleshow/75129541.cms||Faryal Rumi
April 14, 2020||Ludhiana||Rush of deaddiction patients, hosp draws circles of safety||Ludhiana: Ever since the lockdown, there has been a spurt in the number of persons visiting the civil hospital in Khanna to get de-addiction medicines. The unprecedented rush has made the worried authorities paint circles for them to stand in to ensure social distancing. The curfew has resulted in many addicts desiring to kick the habit. “Earlier, five to 10 addicts would come daily for de-addiction medicines at our outpatient opioid assisted treatment (OOAT) centre, but now we get around 70 such cases. To ensure that social distancing is maintained, we have marked circles from outside the centre to the reception. The patients are asked to queue up by standing in these,” said Dr Rajinder Gulati, senior medical officer at Khanna civil hospital. “We had never seen such a rush for de-addiction. We give them the government supplied buprenorphine and naloxone medicines. We used to give medicines to addicts daily, but now we give for 10 days or two weeks. We have adequate stock. Though there are multiple factors for rise in de-addiction patients, lack of drug supply is the major reason motivating them to quit.” Health department officials said spurt in addicts thronging OOAT centres across the state could also be attributed to the fact that not many private de-addiction centres were working these days. They added that break in supply chain of drugs, lack of physical meetings with peer group members, constant watch of family were main factors building pressure on addicts, especially with mild and moderate addiction, to get rid of the problem and live a healthy life. Social activists said marking circles was a good move. “It is very important to maintain social distancing and if the authorities have devised such a strategy, it should be appreciated. I hope they are enforcing it well,” said Kulwinder Singh, an activist from Khanna.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/rush-of-deaddiction-patients-hosp-draws-circles-of-safety/articleshow/75129553.cms||Shariq Majeed
April 14, 2020||Nagpur||Discharged Kamptee boy back from Raipur||Nagpur: A 16-year-old boy from Kamptee who tested positive for Covid-19 at Katghora in Korba district, Chhattisgarh, returned home on Monday. He was discharged from AIIMS Raipur a day ago. Kamptee tehsildar Arvind Hingne told TOI, “The Chhattisgarh government arranged an ambulance for dropping the boy to his home. He reached on Monday morning. We have asked him to strictly maintain home quarantine for the next 14 days.” The boy was among the 16 member-Tablighi Jamaat (TJ) group from Kamptee which left for a religious tour on March 1. The group first went to Bilaspur in Chhattisgarh and then to Katghora. He was tested positive on April 4. Thereafter, he tested negative twice. Immediately after he tested positive, Kamptee tehsil office had directed his eight family members to observe home quarantine for 14 days. The remaining 15 members of the same group are reportedly staying at Katghora. From Kamptee, five more such groups went on a religious tour on March 1. Two from the groups at Agra had tested positive. Three groups are in Agra, Malegaon and Khamgaon. Two groups comprising 23 TJs had returned to Kamptee from Amravati and Chandrapur on March 29. All were traced, examined and quarantined. Their reports are awaited. From Kamptee, eight persons were traced, examined and quarantined in connection with Delhi. Report of one person came positive a day ago. Family members of the person were traced and quarantined at Symbiosis University, Wathoda. Reports of the remaining seven are awaited.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/discharged-kamptee-boy-back-from-raipur/articleshow/75130410.cms||Anjaya Anparthi
April 14, 2020||Pune||Pune: Reservoirs’ stock below 50%, officials rule out water cuts||PUNE: The collective stock in the four dams supplying water to the city has dropped below the half-way mark, even as the state irrigation department recently initiated water discharge from the Khadakwasla reservoir for summer crops. The ongoing discharge is expected to continue for two weeks, during which around 2 TMC water is likely to flow out for rural parts of the district. The irrigation department said the water release won’t hamper the city’s water supply and adequate quota would be available during the summer. On Monday, the collective stock in the four dams — Khadakwasla, Panshet, Temghar and Varasgaon — was recorded at 13.47 TMC (46.2%). Except Panshet, the stock in the remaining three dams had dropped below the half-way mark. While Temghar had no live stock, the storage in Varasgaon and Khadakwasla was recorded at 47% and 49%, respectively. The storage in Panshet was recorded at 61%. An irrigation department official said the discharge of water into the Mutha canal was initiated at the beginning of April after the demand from the rural parts. It will be stopped after the demands for water were met, the official said. A senior official said the city’s water quota had been kept intact. “We have set aside water required for the city during the summer. Even though the department is releasing water for the city, the civic administration has to keep an eye on its usage. Wastage should strictly be avoided,” the official said. The city has been drawing 1,350 million litres of water per day (MLD) from the Khadakwasla dam. The irrigation department wants it to be reduced to 1,150 MLD. A source from the civic administration ruled out any water cuts during summer. “The collective stock in dams this year is around 4.5 TMC more than last year’s storage of 8.9 TMC in the dams around mid-April. The state irrigation department should work out a plan that will not hamper the city’s water supply and also provide adequate water to rural areas,” a civic official said. The irrigation department is already done with two rotations of water release during the winter season. Around 5 TMC water was released during the winter. A call on the second water release during summer is expected to be taken in May depending on the demand and update on the arrival of monsoon.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/reservoirs-stock-below-50-officials-rule-out-water-cuts/articleshow/75131017.cms||Sarang Dastane
April 14, 2020||Agra||With 39 patients in a day, Agra, UP's Covid epicentre, now has 142 cases||Agra: Agra, Uttar Pradesh’s Covid-19 epicentre, recorded 39 new cases on Monday, its highest single day hike ever, taking the total tally to 142 in the district — which is twice the number of cases in Noida which stands second in the state. Fresh patients in the district also included a junior doctor who had been serving at the isolation ward of SN Medical College (SNMC). In the wake of the rising number of Covid-19 cases in the district, the local administration has shifted 20 patients to similar facilities in the neighbouring districts to manage capacity. While 10 patients were earlier shifted to Vrindavan community health centre (CHC), another 10 were shifted to Mainpuri’s Bhogaon CHC on Monday. Meanwhile, the neighbouring Kasganj for the first time reported presence of Covid-19 infection, as three local residents tested positive. In Firozabad, the cases rose to 18, as two fresh cases were found positive. A staff nurse of a private hospital in Mathura tested positive for Covid-19 on Monday, taking the tally of patients in the district to five. Out of the 39 positive cases confirmed in Agra on Monday, 14 are direct contacts of a Fatehpur Sikri-based tourist guide who tested positive in Mathura on April 10. Five cases are related to staffers of a private hospital and their family members, another five are related to the family members of the patients of a private clinic where a doctor had also tested positive last week. The remaining are contacts of people who tested positive earlier, including those who had attended the Tablighi Jamaat event at Delhi’s Nizamuddin. Maintaining that the areas where these new patients lived have been sealed and the residents are being screened, chief medical officer Dr Mukesh Kumar Vats said, “It is very unfortunate that one junior doctor has got Covid-19 infection. We will be sending samples of all the doctors and paramedic staff serving at the isolation ward for lab testing." With 14 new cases surfacing in one day, Fatehpur Sikri emerged as a major hotspot in the district. The two major hotspots in the city include a private hospital having 21 positive cases linked to it and a clinic in the Ghatiya Azam Khan locality with 10 cases linked to it. District magistrate Prabhu N Singh said, “The number of active cases in the district is 128. All the people who had come in contact with any Covid-19 patient are being screened. The area in the vicinity of the places where the infected people were staying is being sanitized. So far, we had marked 49 places in the district as coronavirus epicentres. Out of these, 10 have been neutralized. We are doing a massive sampling to identify all the infected patients and send them to institutional quarantine.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/agra/with-39-patients-in-a-day-agra-ups-covid-epicentre-now-has-142-cases/articleshow/75129572.cms||Deepak Lavania
April 14, 2020||Ahmedabad||She stitches masks, wants kid to join IAS||Ahmedabad: Single mother Pooja Darji, 32, is a busy woman these days. Apart from taking care of her two pre-teen children, she spends about 15 hours a day stitching masks. Since the lockdown came into force, she has stitched over 5,000 washable masks and sold these for six rupees a piece to NGOs, banks and other organizations who have been distributing these to people in need.“Masks available in the market are priced higher. The ones that I stitch are durable as they are made from a thick cotton fabric called ‘madapaat’. I sell these masks for just six rupees a piece and have been stitching these masks since the lockdown came into force,” said Poojaben.She stays with her brother’s family, runs a tailoring shop in New Ranip and accepts orders in stitching bags for seminars and other purposes, but after the outbreak of the coronavirus pandemic, she has been spending close to 15 hours a day, only stitching masks. For those who cannot afford to pay, she has been distributing masks for free.When she began to earn a living by stitching bags, Poojaben got the support of NGOs, especially the Nivedita Foundation. “I began to get work orders from banks and other NGOs as well. Now that the lockdown is in force, I have supplied masks to NGOs and banks who have distributed these among their employees and others,” says Pooja.She has big dreams for her children. “I will continue to work hard. I want my daughter, 12, to be an IAS officer. I see this mask stitching exercise as my contribution to contain the spread of coronavirus,” she said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/she-stitches-masks-wants-kid-to-join-ias/articleshow/75131024.cms||Meghdoot Sharon
April 14, 2020||Goa||Rent-a-cab biz owners seek relief||Calangute: The North Goa Rent-a-Cab Association has urged the state government to keep the borders shut till the Covid-19 pandemic abates in neighbouring states. They have also appealed for some relief in some form for car owners. The car rental business has stopped since March 22. “Though we are losing business due to the lockdown, the state’s borders should remain shut till the pandemic situation improves. If borders are opened up earlier, the tourists may carry the virus into the state,” the association’s vice-president Nitesh Chodankar told TOI. “We may struggle without business for a few months, but we will benefit in the long run as Goa will remain a safe destination.” Requesting for relief in some form, he said, “The government should facilitate deferring of loan installments and insurance payments.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/rent-a-cab-biz-owners-seek-relief/articleshow/75131021.cms||---
April 14, 2020||Nagpur||Corona threat making workers in pvt hosps stay away||Nagpur: Multispecialty hospitals as well as nursing homes have started facing major problems after 20 days of lockdown. Many of their staffers including attendants, helpers, sanitary workers, nurses, and technicians are leaving in fear of Covid-19. Officials of Vidarbha Hospitals Association (VHA) claimed nearly half of their temporary staffers had stopped working.“Most corporate hospitals in city are running at half their strength,” said Dr Ashok Arbat, president of VHA. “This is going to be a major problem if Covid-19 cases increase and private hospitals need to treat patients,” he added.With number of Covid-19 cases increasing, administration may rope in private hospitals to treat them. In Rajasthan, the state government acquired 80 private hospitals along with their staffers and infrastructure for this purpose. State government has all the powers as the Epidemic Act is already invoked.Initially most of those who do not have permanent appointment— health workers, assistants, and sanitary staff – stapped coming. Now, nurses and technicians are also leaving. They have their own reasons to leave.“We are not permanent employees. We don’t have any job security or insurance. Our salaries are also meagre. Most of us are from poor families. There is no one to look after us if anyone gets infected,” said Ketan Raut, who used to work in a leading private hospital as attendant. Like him, many left their jobs under family pressure.“I stay with my elderly in-laws. I can’t put them at risk of infection. My husband also told me to leave the job as it was not permanent,” said Sunita Bhosle, who used to work as attendant in a nursing home.Some staffers and technicians are fed up of police action on the streets. “As we are not permanent employees, we don’t have identity cards or letters from hospitals. How to convince police that I am a health worker and out for essential service,” asked Nandu Gohad, a lab technician.Former IMA president Dr Y S Deshpande said running OPDs had become a challenge for doctors. “There is shortage of PPE kits and sanitizers. We have to procure them from market as government has made no provision for us,” he said. In many hospitals, masks and sanitizers are available for treating doctors but not for every nurse and attendant. Watching doctors in protective gear adds to the fear of other staffers.Hospitals are also set to face major revenue too as they don’t have new patients but must pay all salaries and EMIs. VHA also demanded government should release their pending dues under various schemes.“We have requested all government and public sector undertakings like CGHS, ECHS, ESIS and WCL to clear the outstanding dues of all healthcare service providers at the earliest,” said Dr Alok Umre, secretary of VHA. Moreover, income tax refunds of many service providers have not been in last two years. VHA has appealed for release of those refunds.Hospitals need treatment Lockdown effect | General OPDs are closed. Hospitals are treating only emergency patientsIPDs vacant | In-patient departments are also vacant as planned surgeries are postponedNo patients | Nagpur Hospitals receive a major chunk of patients from neighboring states which is now stopped due to travel restrictionsPayment problems | Many hospitals not in position to pay their EMIs of construction loan, rent of buildingStaffers problems | Staffers are leaving jobs as their family-members don’t want them to work in hospitals due to infection riskPPE Kits | Private practitioners, their staff members and technicians are not getting enough PPE kits and sanitizers as they are dependent on open marketPending dues | Government and PSUs like CGHS, ECHS, ESIS and WCL are still to clear dues of many hospitals||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/corona-threat-making-workers-in-pvt-hosps-stay-away/articleshow/75130418.cms||Chaitanya Deshpande
April 14, 2020||Nagpur||7k sanitary workers yet to get March salary||Nagpur: Around 7,000 sanitary workers, who are still on field to keep the city clean, are yet to get their March salary. We used to get our salary on seventh of every month. But even after a week, there is no effort by the Nagpur Municipal Corporation to pay our salary, a group of sanitary workers told TOI. MLC Anil Sole too had raised the issue with mayor Sandip Joshi and municipal commissioner Tukaram Mundhe. In a letter to Joshi and Mundhe, the former mayor pointed out that sanitary workers continued to work despte there being complete lockdown in the country and demanded immediate release of their salaries. Instead of rewarding their work, NMC hasn’t even disbursed their salaries, an angry leader of opposition in the NMC and senior Congress corporator Tanaji Wanve said. A senior official from the sanitation department confirmed the delay and explained the process has been completed and they may get their salaries by Tuesday. The officer stated there were some glitches in preparing the salary slips that led to delay in disbursal. “Now, it has been sorted out and they will get full salary for last month,” he said. TOI had reported how the sanitary workers risked their lives during current crisis. NMC administration had asked them even not to avail any leave. “Amid corona scare and no safety gear, we keep city clean,” the sanitary workers said adding there were clear directions from the state government about no salary deductions for those working to fight against coronavirus. “As per the order, we should get full salary. Still, NMC is yet to disburse our salary,” a worker said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/7k-sanitary-workers-yet-to-get-march-salary/articleshow/75130421.cms||Proshun Chakraborty
April 14, 2020||Bengaluru||Cash-strapped govt rejects mall owners’ plea to waive utility charges||Bengaluru: Hit hard by the Covid-19 pandemic, mall and multiplex owners have knocked on the government’s doors seeking a waiver on electricity and water bills to offset losses suffered during the lockdown period. However, the government seems to be in no mood to heed their plea, especially when its revenue resources have hit a dead end. “We are struggling to fill our own coffers. It’s time to share distress and not losses,” said deputy chief minister CN Ashwath Narayan, indicating the government’s stand.All 33 malls in Bengaluru have appealed to Bescom and BWSSB to waive minimum charges since they have not used any power during lockdown. Even Federation of Karnataka Chambers of Commerce and Industries (FKCCI) has made a similar appeal but to no avail. Both Bescom and BWSSB have expressed helplessness. “We need to purchase energy before supplying it to consumers and there was no discount offered to us. We can’t afford to waive any charges,” said Bescom managing director MB Rajesh Gowda.The mall owners, however, have not given up. Uday Garudchar, BJP MLA who owns the Garuda chain of malls, said they would appeal to CM BS Yediyurappa to announce an amnesty package for the organised retail sector, including malls and multiplexes, once the situation normalises. Suresh Singaravelu, executive director, retail, hospitality and business expansion of Prestige Group which owns four malls including UB City in Bengaluru and one each in Mysuru and Mangaluru, said the operator a pays monthly electrically bill about Rs 1.2 crore per mall, of which Rs 10 lakh is fixed (minimum) charges per month. “We expect the government to help us as there is no immediate sign of recovery even once the lockdown is lifted,” Singaravelu.Both mall owners and retailers have been facing huge losses since the government ordered closure of malls, shopping centres, multiplexes and large public gatherings, much earlier than some other states, till April 14. This is now expected to be extended till the month-end. However, mall owners say they started facing problems soon after the outbreak of coronavirus in Wuhan, China, last December as many people stopped visiting places with huge crowds. ————OPTIONALVOICESKarnataka government must offer relief to mall and multiplex owners on the lines of Kerala, Gujarat, Maharashtra and Delhi, keeping the employment they generate in mindCR Janardhan, president, FKCCI, Bengaluru If the government fails to offer some relief, most malls in the state may shut down permanently. But it must do a balancing act of protecting the interest of the industry and utility agenciesMG Prabhakar, energy expert||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/cash-strapped-govt-rejects-mall-owners-plea-to-waive-utility-charges/articleshow/75130957.cms||B V Shiva Shankar
April 14, 2020||Bengaluru||Airlines may not refund tickets if flights don’t resume||BENGALURU: While the Covid-19 lockdown is likely to be extended, private bus and airline operators as well as Indian Railways continue to accept bookings for journeys on and after April 15. According to sources, Karnataka State Road Transport Corporation (KSRTC) has already processed refunds for tickets booked on and after April 15. Indian Railways and private bus operators are likely to follow suit. However, airlines are unlikely to issue refunds if flights are suspended. Instead, they will hold the money as credit so that the passenger can travel any time within a year. Though the government-owned Air India has suspended booking of tickets till April 30, sources say many private airlines have been urging people to book tickets after April 14. However, flight operations will not resume if the lockdown continues. “We are not in a position to issue refunds for tickets but people could use the same amount for their next booking within one year,” said an airline representative on condition of anonymity. There was a huge demand for bus and train tickets for April 15 anticipating the lockdown would be lifted. “The booking rate has fallen of late as people have realised the lockdown may be extended. Bus operators are awaiting further details from the government regarding travel April 15 onwards. For any booking made for a future date on which the bus is cancelled, the customer will automatically get a full ticket refund. This has been communicated proactively to our customers on our website and app and via email,” said a redBus spokesperson. KSRTC officials said they have suspended bookings till further notice. “A total of 5,200 passengers had booked tickets after April 14. Of these, 4,600 tickets were booked for April 15 alone. All tickets have been cancelled and refund process initiated,” said a KSRTC official. Indian Railways is also unlikely to resume services on April 15. “We will take a decision after Prime Minister’s speech on Tuesday. We will automatically refund money to those who booked online tickets for journeys after April 14,” said an official.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/airlines-may-not-refund-tickets-if-flights-dont-resume/articleshow/75130990.cms||---
April 14, 2020||Patna||Two more test positive, total Covid-19 cases 66 in Bihar||PATNA: Two more persons tested positive on Monday, taking the number of Covid-19 patients in the state to 66. Principal secretary (health) Sanjay Kumar said a 34-year-old man from Begusarai and another 40-year-old from Nalanda contracted the virus. Begusarai now have eight Covid patients. The Nalanda man had come from Dubai on March 21. A man in his 20s, who worked at a private hospital in Munger, was the first Covid patient from Begusarai. Another 24-year-old patient from Begusarai had returned from Dubai. Two other teenagers who tested positive had allegedly visited a mosque on where foreign nationals from Indonesia stayed earlier. Meanwhile, Covid-19 testing commenced at Sri Krishna Medical College and Hospital (SKMCH) on Monday. The fifth such centre in the state tested 13 samples on the first day, state health minister Mangal Pandey said. Sources said other hospitals will also be used as testing centres after getting ICMR nod. Pandey held a review meeting with officials and discussed about the screening, testing and tracing of contacts of Covid-19 patients. He advised the officials to focus on Siwan, Nawada and Begusarai and get door-to-door screening done in the three districts. He also asked them to keep a record of people above 60 years in all the households and compile their detailed information. Pandey claimed there were 17,926 PPE kits, 24,0475 three-ply masks and 85,437 N95 masks available in the state. He advised the officials to ensure sufficient stock of these equipment and medicines. As per the information shared by principal secretary (health), 7199 samples had been collected for test till Monday morning and 412 of them were under testing process. As per the Indian Council of Medical Research date shared by historian and writer William Dalrymple and retweeted by Sanjay, Bihar’s testing rate stood at 48 per million compared to the same figure in Uttar Pradesh, 593 per million in Delhi, followed by 365 per million in Kerala, 298 per million in Rajasthan, 273 per million in Maharashtra, 115 per million in Uttarakhand, 103 per million in Gujarat and 72 per million in Madhya Pradesh. Bihar and Uttar Pradesh were at the bottom of the list.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/2-more-test-positive-total-cases-66-in-state/articleshow/75129601.cms||Sheezan Nezami
April 14, 2020||Trichy||2.13 lakh people in containment zones in Trichy||TRICHY: The city corporation has classified Covid-19 hotspots in the city under three major containment zones by clubbing closely-packed neighbourhoods for better supervision to contain the spread. About 54,000 houses with a head count of of 2.13 lakh in the three major containment zones are being monitored by corporation field workers and supervisors. One self help group (SHG) worker, assigned to cover 100 houses daily, will be supervised by anganwadi workers and nurses from UPHCs. Similarly, a medical officer has been appointed to screen residents near the houses of Covid-19 positive cases. The city has reported 21 positive cases as of Sunday, including 18 people who returned from Delhi and three of their family members. “Not only the containment zones, but doctors from 18 of our UPHCs were also told to monitor if any fever cases are reported in their jurisdiction. Vehicles were arranged for them to carry out door-to-door screening,” a senior corporation official said. To ensure hassle-free supervision in the containment zones, the civic body arranged 18 cabs for the doctors from Monday. All the 21 positive cases are spread in 13 wards under Ariyamangalam, K Abishekapuram and Ponmalai zones of the local body. “It is unlikely that the existing containment zones will expand. Police personnel are restricting movement in the containment zones,” a senior corporation official added. UPHC doctors were also told to keep track of pregnant women, comorbidity cases and diabetic patients in their jurisdictions on a daily basis. If the residents in the quarantined zones develop any serious complications such as high fever and cold, the Covid-19 ward at the Mahatma Gandhi Memorial (MGM) government hospital will be alerted. Based on directions from the hospital, corporation said that the samples of residents showing symptoms of Covid-19 will be collected and sent for laboratory test.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/2-13l-people-in-containment-zones-in-city/articleshow/75131031.cms||Deepak Karthik
April 14, 2020||Trichy||15 revenue assts to help buy essentials||TRICHY: After the residents of Covid-19 containment zones complained that they are deprived of essential commodities, corporation has appointed 15 revenue assistants to help the residents avail essential commodities. Domestic breeding checkers (DBCs) are likely to be roped in for delivering essential commodities for the containment zone. K Abishekapuram zone accounts for 55% of the city’s containment zones, which includes Alwarthope, Andakondan, Khajathoppu, Thennur Pallivasal, Anna Nagar second street, Kuthbisha Nagar, Palayam Bazaar, Thillai Nagar 11th cross, Rahumaniapuram and Pakkupettai. The entries and exits of the localities were barricaded soon after the neighbourhoods reported Covid-19 positive cases. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/15-revenue-assts-to-help-buy-essentials/articleshow/75131023.cms||Deepak Karthik
April 14, 2020||Bengaluru||19 Covid-19 patients in Karnataka are below 14 years||BENGALURU: One out of every 13 Covid-19 patients in Karnataka is a child under 14 years of age and was infected because of proximity to an infected adult family member or acquaintance. The 19 children (7.6%) among the 248 infected patients in the state till Monday have had no travel history abroad and were found infected as they were primary or secondary contacts of Covid-19 positive patients. Only two, including a 10-month-old baby boy in Dakshina Kannada, have recovered so far. The number of children found with the infection increased in the last two days, with four cases each being reported on Sunday and Monday. The youngest of the child patients was a 10-month-old boy from Dakshina Kannada, who had a travel history of Kerala. Strangely, the baby’s parents and grandparents tested negative for the infection. The child recovered well and was discharged last week. The oldest among the affected children is a 14-year-old-boy from Raibag, Belagavi, who was a primary contact of a Covid-19 positive case, who was Tablighi Jamaat congregation participant. The other affected children include a boy, 10, and a domestic help. There have been three paediatric cases each from Bengaluru, Bagalkot, Dharwad and Vijayapura. One case each has been reported from Dakshina Kannada, Tumakuru, Ballari, Mysuru, Dharwad, Mandya, Belagavi and Kalaburagi. According to Dr BN Gangadhar, director Nimhans, the degree of concern over the infection is less among children. “They won’t worry like adults. It is believed that Covid-19 infection has so far been mild among children. Children generally being indoors are not much affected by the virus,” he said. 13-year-old girl was state’s first caseKarnataka’s first paediatric case, a 13-year-old girl, was hospitalised along with her parents and had no symptoms throughout. She was found infected after her father and mother tested positive; her father had tested positive on March 9 after returning from the US. Her entire school was shut after the girl tested positive. Another 13-year-old boy from Sira in Tumakuru district tested positive a week after his father, a Tablighi Jamaat delegate, died after being found to be infected. The boy is being treated at Tumakuru district hospital and is stable. In Bagalkot, three cousins are infected and in the same hospital. “It’s tough to look after these children for 14 days in hospital wards without their parents,” a treating doctor told TOI. ‘Physical distancing with children is tough’According to Dr Giridhar Babu, professor and head of lifecourse epidemiology in Public Health Foundation of India, Bengaluru, practising physical distancing with children is practically tough. “A child would not understand the concept of physical distancing. For persons in home isolation, changing interactions with family members won’t be easy. How would you stop a child from hugging parents, its tough,” said Dr Babu, who is also a member of the expert committee on Covid-19 studying the epidemiology of cases reported in the state. However, there have been instances where strict home isolation have resulted in zero spread of infection. “The ideal example is of Karanatka’s fourth patient, a 50-year-old man who isolated himself in a room soon after returning from the US. His daughter wrote the II PU exam with government support, despite herself being a suspected case. She, however, tested negative,” a senior health officer said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/19-covid-19-patients-in-ktaka-are-below-14-years/articleshow/75130977.cms||Sunitha Rao R
April 14, 2020||Bengaluru||BBMP to present its 2021 budget online||BENGALURU: The BBMP’s budget presentation and approval exercise is set to go online in the wake of the public health emergency created by Covid-19. BBMP officials and elected representatives claimed it is for the first time in the country that a municipal body’s budget-making exercise is going online. In a communication to the Palike commissioner, the additional chief secretary of urban development department has directed the civic body to present the budget for 2020-21 and revised budget for 2019-20 and get approval for the same in a video-conference. The communication cites the Covid-19 outbreak and is signed by Lakshmi Sagar NK, under secretary (BBMP), urban development department. “The mayor, deputy mayor, taxation and finance standing committee chairperson, commissioner and council secretary should be in the BBMP headquarters, while councillors should be present at their respective zonal headquarters during the video-conference,” Sagar later told TOI. The councillors should raise objections or suggestions, if any, to the budget and approve it online, he added. Mayor Goutham Kumar said the corporation was finding it difficult to operate without a fixed budget for the year. “Many councillors feel BBMP is wasting funds unnecessarily. So, we decided to go for an online budget to enable smooth functioning of the corporation,” said Kumar.  Abdul Wajid, opposition leader, said he has requested the commissioner and the mayor to set aside Rs 1,000 crore to tackle lockdown effects.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/bbmp-to-present-its-2021-budget-online/articleshow/75130945.cms||Nithya Mandyam
April 14, 2020||Goa||It’s back to school for Goa teachers, with staggered hours||PANAJI: The directorate of education (DoE) has asked teachers of government, government aided and unaided schools to report to work from April 15. Heads of institutions have been told to call staffers to work in batches on alternate days so that not more than 50% employees are working on any given day. The directives will be applicable upto April 30, the circular issued on Monday states. “Remaining employees shall work from home on alternate day-basis (absolutely essential staff may attend on a daily basis). It is suggested that the working hours for all the employees who attend the office on a particular day should also be staggered. Three groups of employees may be formed and asked to attend office as per the following timings – a) 8am to 12pm, b) 9am to 1pm, c) 9.30am to 1.30pm,” the circular reads. The directives also state that those employees who are working from home should be available over the phone and other electronics means of communication at all times. Those working from home should also be willing to attend office if required and in case of any exigencies. “Institutions are requested not to convene meetings unless it is essential. Further, visitors to office should be avoided. Institutions are requested to instruct their staff to remain at home if they have symptoms like cough, cold, fever or if they are short of breath, and advised to take appropriate medical care though government doctors. The doctor’s prescription be made available to the head of institution digitally for information,” deputy director of education Shailesh Zingde said in the circular. Schools have also been told to make available hand sanitisers, hand wash at wash basins and to ensure supply of water. “All the norms of social distancing should be adhered to at the work place. Employees should be encouraged to use mask at the workplace,” Zingde has said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/its-back-to-school-for-states-teachers-with-staggered-hrs/articleshow/75131032.cms||---
April 14, 2020||Trichy||Covid scare hits Tamil New Year shopping||TRICHY: The lockdown and the Covid-19 scare affected the usual shopping by residents on the eve of the Tamil New Year on Monday. Usually, on the eve of the Tamil new year markets witness brisk sales of flowers, vegetables, fruits, and banana leaves. However, the lockdown has affected arrival of flowers to the city, which affected special pujas. “We could not find banana leaves to host a special vegetarian lunch for the deities comprising all tastes such as sour, bitter and sweet. Raw mangoes were also unavailable,” T Nagarajan, a resident of Woraiyur, said. Most of the residents could not buy new clothes this year as all the textile showrooms in the city were closed. “Compared to previous years, this year’s Tamil new year sales were too low. It seems that the people have made up their mind to welcome the new year with what is available at their homes,” K Prabhu, a vegetable vendor from EB Road, told TOI. With the closure of temples, the Tamil new year has lost its usual sheen, said residents.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/covid-scare-hits-tamil-new-year-shopping/articleshow/75131034.cms||---
April 14, 2020||Goa||CII suggests reopening of key industries in phases||Panaji: In order to minimise the economic impact of the lockdown and protect jobs, a calibrated withdrawal from the lockdown is vital, said the Confederation of India Industry (CII). The industry body also stressed on the need for all health and safety precautions to be taken at industrial units so that the gains of the lockdown are not withered away. CII has lent support to a move to create classification for geographical zones which would then decide how the lockdown is lifted. CII submitted a report—Exit from the Lockdown —to the Centre where it has identified textiles and apparels, pharmaceuticals, food processing, minerals and metal, e-commerce, automobiles and chemicals as the key sectors that should be allowed to restart operations. “The principle should be that we look at opening up in concentric circles around the red zones. The radiating heat map should turn from red in the inside to green on the outside,” said CII director general Chandrajit Banerjee. Prime Minister Narendra Modi is scheduled to speak today at 10am where he is expected to outline the roadmap for the next few days. CII said that with the number of coronavirus cases still increasing, the opening up across the country would need to be slow and staggered. Banerjee said that it was for the government to decide whether all industries should be operational in the green zones and which ones should open in the amber zone. In its recommendations to the Centre, CII has urged the government to give adequate notice and release an economic package before lifting the lockdown. “The government could consider stage by stage opening of key industry sectors what fall in green and amber zones to maintain the gains from the lockdown while we look at restarting the ailing economy,” said Banerjee. The CII report recommends a stage-wise and zone wise lifting of restrictions with a gap of one or two weeks between the start of operations of various industrial units.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/cii-suggests-reopening-of-key-industries-in-phases/articleshow/75131037.cms||---
April 14, 2020||Nagpur||Keep clinics open, safely: IMA tells docs||Nagpur: The Indian Medical Association (IMA) has appealed to all its members to keep their clinics open. Guidelines were released for clinical practice during lockdown. IMA has asked doctors to post photographs and videos of work at clinics on social media tolet people know they were working. “Prepare for post-lockdown. Continue to insist on hand washing and social distancing. Equip and train staff on use of PPEs,” state the guidelines.“Coronavirus is here to stay. We need to learn to live with it. Sadly, it’s the virus which is dictating terms. Do not be under the wrong impression that once the lockdown is lifted, everything will be normal. There is a strong possibility that these guidelines will be the new normal,” said Dr Ravi Wankhedkar, treasurer of World Medical Association. According to him, there is no one solution that fits all. “Every country will have to take a call. In case of India, every state and region will require a different strategy. So, it’s better to follow the guidelines,” he added. The guidelines further ask doctors to segregate patients with fever, cough and breathlessness. Big hospitals can use the standard questionnaire. Examination of patients with fever and cough will be done in a dedicated area. The staff in this area will have N95 masks.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/keep-clinics-open-safely-ima-tells-docs/articleshow/75130420.cms||Chaitanya Deshpande
April 14, 2020||Goa||Support Class X students, edu dept urges teachers||Panaji: In a new circular issued to schools the directorate of education (DoE) has said that Class X teachers of state board schools across Goa should remain in ‘constant touch’ with students, that teachers should use the electronic media and help students get through the “dilemma caused by postponement of Class X board exams”.Last month, chief minister Pramod Sawant had said that at the end of the initial period of 21 days of lockdown, which ends on April 14, new dates for the state board Class X exams will be declared. However, with the lockdown set to continue in all likelihood, the DoE has now asked teachers as well as parents to provide constant support to around 20,000 students who are to answer the postponed April 2020 Class X public exam of the Goa board of secondary and higher secondary education.“In view of the spread of Covid-19 pandemic, it was decided by the competent authority to postpone the secondary school certificate examinations to be conducted by the Goa Board and it was further decided that fresh dates will be announced by the board, giving at least ten days notice to the candidates. “As the students who will appear for the said examination will be in a state of dilemma due to the above situation, they need to be supported by their parents as well as their teachers,” deputy director of education Shailesh Zingde said in the circular issued on Monday.The circular also states that teachers should help put students at ease in such a situation. “Therefore, the heads of the institutions shall ensure that their teachers who have taught these students shall remain in constant touch with the students through electronic media as per their convenience and provide them proper guidance whenever required so that the students are at ease and are also prepared for the examination,” Zingde said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/support-class-x-students-edu-dept-urges-teachers/articleshow/75131022.cms||---
April 14, 2020||Ahmedabad||RERA allows one- time extension||Ahmedabad: Gujarat Real Estate Regulatory Authority on Monday provided some relief to real estate developers to help the realty sector mitigate the impact of the current lockdown to contain the COVID-19 pandemic. The state regulator has allowed realtors to apply for a one-time extension in theproject completion deadline (end date). The extension will be provided to all registered projects having their project end date on and between April 1, 2020 and March 31, 2021. Gujarat RERA has also waived the fee for application to extend the date. The measure will give projects having end date within one year from now additional time for their completion. “Projects having their end date one year from today would be in position to realign their construction schedules to address the disturbance caused by Covid-19 lockdown,” Gujarat RERA said in its order issued on Monday. As many as 1,570 or 32% of the ongoing projects are going to benefit from this relaxation. Apart from this, the application fee for alterations has also been waived. “Projects with multi-block development plans would be in a position to revisit their development plan and may consider de-registration of a portion of their inventory through an alteration application i.e. bringing down the size of the registered project by converting the project into a phase of the approved layout plan,” the regulator added. With these measures, Gujarat RERA has granted relief to more than 80% of the ongoing projects across the state which are likely to be completed in next four years.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/rera-allows-one-time-extension/articleshow/75131041.cms||---
April 14, 2020||Nagpur||Two recommended discharge stay back at hosp for daughters||Nagpur: Getting discharge from the hospital after spending days in Covid-19 isolation ward would be a big relief for any person. However, two men from Khamla and Jaripatka have expressed their desire to stay back at the ward at Mayo Hospital despite getting a discharge two days ago, as their minor daughters are still there.The Khamla resident told TOI, “The 14th and 15th day reports of both of us came out negative. The doctors recommended discharge a couple of days ago. My daughter is 16 years old, while the other person’s daughter is 11. Reports of 14th day sample of the two girls were positive. Therefore, we both decided to stay till they are discharged,” he said.He said the samples of his daughter will be taken for testing on Tuesday. “The doctors were supposed to take samples today (Monday) but postponed it. Samples of the other person’s daughter were taken and the reports are awaited. By god’s grace, both our reports come out negative. I hope our daughters’ reports too are negative and we all will return soon,” said the man, who is the manager in shop of Khamla businessman. The other person is assistant in the same shop.The businessman and the manager had travelled to New Delhi for purchasing products for the shop and returned by Telangana Express on March 17. The businessman, his mother, wife, son and daughter had fever and went for a check-up at Indira Gandhi Government Medical College and Hospital (IGGMCH), or Mayo, on March 25. Barring his daughter, all tested positive on March 26. The manager, assistant and their family members were taken for a check-up on the same day.The businessman got discharged on April 10 followed by his mother, wife and son next day.The manager said, “I have completed 19 days, while my daughter has finished 18 days. The same is the case with my colleague. We have had no health issues since the first day,” he said.Dr Sagar Pande, deputy medical superintendent of IGGMCH, told TOI, “Their daughters are minor. They themselves wished to stay back for their daughters. Therefore, we had to allow them. The duo is not at risk and will not get infected again if they stay with their daughters,” he said.The assistant’s elder brother, who is a paralytic, his wife and son also tested positive and are undergoing treatment at GMCH. Reports of all three are awaited.As many as 34 close contacts of the Khamla man and 30 of the Jaripatka man have been discharged from MLA Hostel in the last two days. 11 more from Khamla and 5 from Jaripatka are yet to get discharge due to delay in reports.“We completed 15-16 days. We cooperated in all manners. Still, our reports are delayed which is putting us at risk,” said one of the persons at MLA Hostel.City’s 16th positive person, who is a lawyer and resident of Central Nagpur, is also undergoing treatment at IGGMCH and completed 14 days. His reports too are awaited.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/two-recommended-discharge-stay-back-at-hosp-for-daughters/articleshow/75130429.cms||Anjaya Anparthi
April 14, 2020||Pune||Flow remains steady as commercial demand dips||Pune: Water supply to most parts in the city, barring Kondhwa and Baner-Pashan Link Road, remained unaffected during the lockdown. Some of the water tanker-dependent areas like Kharadi, Wadgaonsheri, Aundh and Baner, among others, also received regular supply from the Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC). The residents were, however, keeping their fingers crossed for the future, especially if the lockdown was to continue after April 14. Deepak Patil, the member of Gulmohar Queenstown in Kharadi, said, “We don’t need tankers as the water supply from PMC is adequate for our society. Some residential complexes in the vicinity, are requiring water tankers, which are arriving as per the requirement.” In areas like Ahmednagar Road, Chandannagar, Wadgaonsheri and Vimannagar, the supply was adequate. Abhishek Dalvi of Gagan Avenue society on NIBM Annexe Road said, “We are getting around 2 hours of water every day, but its not sufficient. We are relying on tankers, but considering the demand from other areas as well they are not coming every day.” Harsh Alwani of Sunshree Housing Society on NIBM Road said, “The water situation is really bad, considering our society is on a hill. Due to the lockdown, the tanker frequency is also less and they are charging more, thus, putting more financial burden on the society.” In Baner, Pashan, Aundh and Wakad areas too, the supply is steady. “There are about 60 societies on Baner-Pashan Link Road (BPLR). Out of these, about 5-6 require at least five tankers a day throughout the year due to very low flow (almost nil) of water supply. About five societies need 1-2 tankers a day. In the past eight days, the flow has drastically reduced in the area. It has become very difficult to store water,” Rajendra Chuttar, president of BPLR Welfare Trust, said. Civic officials attributed the steady supply in residential zones to drop in commercial demand. “Many people are staying at home, so the residential water usage has surged. But the commercial demand has come down,” said Aniruddha Pawaskar, head of the PMC’s water department.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/flow-remains-steady-as-commercial-demand-dips/articleshow/75131033.cms||---
April 14, 2020||Trichy||23 test positive for Covid-19 in central region, 9 patients discharged in Karur||TRICHY: While 15 more patients tested positive for Covid-19 on Monday in Karur, the discharge of nine patients after their recovery from the viral disease brought smiles on the faces of the officials of Karur district administration and the medical team at the government medical college in Karur. As on Monday, the number of positive cases in the central region stood at 144. The news about the discharge of 28 patients including nine positive cases came as a relief for the district. Karur collector T Anbazhagan, medical college dean Rosy Vennila and the medical team gave them a send-off on Monday afternoon. “Nine positive patients have completely recovered. Nineteen close contacts of those who tested negative were kept in hospital quarantine. As they completed their 28 days of quarantine, they were discharged on Monday,” said collector Anbazhagan. The media bulletin released by the state ministry of health and family welfare said that 15 more patients including three children, nine women and three men in the district tested positive for Covid-19 in Karur. They belonged to Pallapatti area in Karur. They had already been quarantined at the hospital. Monday’s test confirmed their infection. In Karur, a total of 41 patients are undergoing treatment. Among them, nine people were discharged on Monday. Five people from Nagapattinam district tested positive on Monday. All the five were relatives of the Tablighi Jamaat delegates. With this, the number of Covid-19 positive cases touched 32 in the district. The toll included one pregnant woman and a 4-year-old boy, hospital sources said. In Tiruvarur, three more people, residents of Koothanallur in the district, tested positive on Monday, taking the toll to 16. All the three cases were also contacts of TJ delegates. The patients included a 17-year-old girl and a 38-year-old woman. No case was reported in Trichy district on Monday, which had 43 Covid-19 positive cases till Sunday. The district administration said the results of the 40 symptomatic patients are likely to be out on Tuesday. Other districts –Ariyalur, Perambalur, Pudukottai and Thanjavur recorded no new positive cases on Monday. (With inputs from D Vincent Arockiaraj)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/23-test-positive-for-covid-19-in-central-region-9-patients-discharged-in-karur/articleshow/75131040.cms||R Gokul
April 14, 2020||Nagpur||Covid -ve infant, 6-yr-old cousin still staying with +ve parents||Nagpur: The six-month-old granddaughter of the Covid-19 victim tested negative in the second test as well within a span of seven days on Monday. The infant’s parents had tested positive on April 9. Her six-year-old cousin’s retest results are awaited, though she too was negative in the first test. Both the minor cousins are currently staying with their coronavirus positive parents at different wards in Government Medical College and Hospital (GMCH). Authorities are undecided about the future stay of these cousins.They were among the 18 family members whose throat swab samples have been collected since April 6. The 68-year-old man had passed away on April 5 at Indira Gandhi Government College and Hospital (IGGMCH). The infant’s father is a son of the victim. The six-year-old is a child of the victim’s daughter. The infant’s father and the six-year-old girl’s mother are brother and sister.The six-month-old’s father and mother are willing to hand her over to a relative, but GMCH authorities have reportedly rejected the suggestion. Instead, doctors were planning to shift her to MLA Hostel with a female health worker, much against the parents’ wishes.The six-year-old’s mother and two siblings were shifted to another ward after they tested positive along with the infant’s parents. The six-year-old was then staying with her father, who tested positive on Sunday.The six-year-old’s father had even asked a relative to come to GMCH to take her away. But doctors decided to test her again and held her back. The father is worried about both the minors staying among positive patients. Another issue facing this family is there are no immediate women relatives who have not been placed in institutional quarantine, where they can easily shift the minors. Along with the six-year-old’s father, seven other relatives are in the same ward. Of these, six tested positive and haven’t been shifted since Sunday.A relative told TOI that the father is unable to take care of the six-year-old as he has turned positive. “Since yesterday, he is avoiding going close to her. She hasn’t taken a bath for two days now,” the relative said, adding though she is now eating on her own from food packets.Meanwhile, a 27-year-old man from the family blamed GMCH doctors for his infection. The man had no travel history and hasn’t even ventured out of home during the lockdown phase.His 60-year-old mother and 30-year-old brother had been to the funeral of the 68-year-old man, during which they are said to have contracted the virus. The mother is a niece of the victim.After being informed that his test was positive, the 27-year-old man was inconsolable and kept blaming the doctors for keeping him with high risk persons from his family at the isolation ward.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/covid-ve-infant-6-yr-old-cousin-still-staying-with-ve-parents/articleshow/75130434.cms||Sarfaraz Ahmed
April 14, 2020||Ahmedabad||Bopal records positive case, 9 in quarantine||Ahmedabad: On Monday, a 48-year-old man from Bopal tested positive for Covid. Ahmedabad district health department officials said that the man works at a unit in Ramol. He had fever since March 31 and had visited the community health centre (CHC) at Ghuma for treatment. Doctors later suggested a Covid test for him. The department officials have started tracing all the persons the man had come in contact with. Any person with symptoms associated with Covid will be quarantined and tested, they added. This is the fourth positive case for Ahmedabad district outside the Ahmedabad Municipal Corporation (AMC) limits. Officials said that they are not considering it a case of cluster spread. “The man’s family has been counselled and so have his neighbours and society members to remain in quarantine. They have all agreed,” Ahmedabad collector K K Nirala said. “The society’s daily provisions and routine health check-ups will be taken care of by us.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/bopal-records-positive-case-9-in-quarantine/articleshow/75131054.cms||---
April 14, 2020||Goa||To boost morale, police to start ‘cop of the day’ award||Panaji: Goa Police has decided to nominate one policeman as ‘Cop of the Day’ for his or her good work during the lockdown, particularly for helping the needy and vulnerable sections. District superintendent of police (SPs) and SP Traffic will select a person everyday who has done exemplary work and sanction a reward of Rs 1,100 and a commendation. Police personnel are instrumental in ensuring the lockdown is successful and in maintaining social distance at shops and other institutions such as banks, cooperative stores, fair price shops, SP Shobhit Saxena said “They have also been deployed at checkposts to seal the borders preventing entry of unauthorised people. Police personnel also assist health department staff in contact-tracing and surveillance over home-quaratined. They are also reaching out to vulnerable sections of society like senior citizens, labourers and other people in distress unmindful of the plight of their own families,” he said. Saxena said that while Goa remains indoors, cops are braving the sun. Any outstanding work would also be rewarded by the inspector general of police and deputy inspector general of police.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/to-boost-morale-police-to-start-cop-of-the-day-award/articleshow/75131036.cms||---
April 14, 2020||Nagpur||Sombre new year celebrations for different communities today||Nagpur: The coronavirus outbreak has taken the sheen out of festive celebrations, yet people are finding ways to celebrate them at their homes. On Tuesday, different communities will be celebrating new year as per their regional calendar. A wide variety of delicious sweets, which are the highlight of the Bengali new year ‘Poila Boishakh’, won’t make it to the table this time. Also, not all ingredients to make the delicacies at home are available. “Sadly, we won’t be able to visit our near ones and Kali Bari (Kali temple). But we will make video calls to them. Also, sweets like payesh and malpua can be prepared at home,” said Debashree Chatterji, a teacher. Amrita Guha, a banker, said, “This year’s Poila Boishakh won’t be the same. Feast will be cooked at home with ingredients available,” she said. ‘Vishu’, the new year celebration for Keralites calls for decorated temples with hangings of yellow and orange flowers, and earthen lamp. This year, the yellow flowers and other things required for the puja are not available. The Shree Hari Hara Dharmasastha Temple of Ayyappa in Besa will be closed for the devotees. “The priest will perform a brief puja at the temple in the morning and we will light diyas at our homes, praying for an early end to the coronavirus outbreak,” said Rajan Nambiar, president, Nairsons Service Society. Businessman Giri Venkatraman Ayyer is disappointed that they won’t will be able to celebrate the Tamilian new year Puthandu in a grand manner. “A day earlier, women decorate the house with Kolam to welcome prosperity and joy. Also, many delicacies are prepared. We are sad as we won’t get flowers, sweets and puja items for the occasion,” he said. Grand feasts, decorated houses, events associated with good harvest and prayers at gurdwara are highlights of Baisakhi celebrated by the Sikh community. At Gurdwara Gurunanak Darbar, the community members are preparing langar and distributing it to the needy for the last two days. “All the women are offering prayers at home. We are doing paath at our homes,” said Gulraj Singh, a businessmen. “After Gudi Padwa, I start reading Swami Samarth’s paath and there is a puja at home on the last day, which is on Tuesday. This year I have arranged a small puja with my family. The priest won’t come so we will do it ourselves,’’ said Pushpa Guhe, a housewife. Assamese also celebrate their new year, Bohag Bihu, around this time of the year. It’s a time for feasts which go on for seven days. Women make pitha, larus (traditional food made of rice and coconut). But this year, the celebrations will be limited to homes.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/sombre-new-year-celebrations-for-different-communities-today/articleshow/75130470.cms||Shreya Tinkhede
April 14, 2020||Patna||Two girls raped, youth killed in Bihar||PATNA: In separate incidents, two minor girls were raped in Katihar while a youth was killed in Samastipur district, police said on Monday. The two minor girls were picked up and subsequently raped at a village under Azamnagar police station. Though the incidents took place on April 7 and 8, formal complaints were lodged on Monday. Azamnagar SHO Manish Kumar Rajak said one Mohammad Manglu has been named accused in both the cases while Mohammad Naswar is accused in one of the two cases. The accused belonged to the same village and were absconding. The SHO said the local residents tried to sort out the matter at panchayat level. “They reported the incident to the police on Sunday night. Subsequently FIRs were lodged,” he said, adding the survivors were sent for medical examination. In Samastipur, a 20-year-old youth was found murdered under Halai police outpost on Monday. The victim, Ranjeet Paswan, was missing since Friday. His throat was slit with a sharp-edged weapon. His body was dumped in an orchard at Lakhaua. SHO Sandip Kumar Pal said the victim’s mother Prem Lata Devi reported the matter to the police on Sunday. “They searched him for three days but in vain. Finally a missing case was lodged on Sunday,” the SHO said. Ranjeet had left home with Govind Paswan, Nahki Paswan and Sanjeet Paswan on Friday. The three were picked up and they revealed to the police about the body. “Scientific evidences are being collected to establish their involvement in the murder,” the SHO said. Meanwhile, Samastipur Town police on Monday arrested one Md Tabrez alias Chhotu from Dharmapur for sending threat message to a judicial officer last week, SHO Sitaram Prasad said. (The victim's identity has not been revealed to protect her privacy as per Supreme Court directives on cases related to sexual assault)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/2-girls-raped-youth-killed/articleshow/75129627.cms||---
April 14, 2020||Trichy||Miscreants turn corpn school into den of anti-social activities||TRICHY: Locked government schools and anganwadi centres in the district have turned into a den for anti-social activities. The headmistress of the corporation primary school at Thennur, Jesima, said she will file a police complaint after conservancy workers informed her about trespassing into the locked school campus. The school toilet was found littered and liquor bottles found scattered all over. The headmistress said that miscreants have been using the terrace to drink and play cards in the evening. While this is not the first time that such an incident has happened at the school, the headmistress said that she has filed police complaint twice in the past after finding electrical wiring for the new building missing from the campus. “This has been the case in many government schools in the city especially during the summer vacations. This time, the lockdown has confined people at homes, while teenagers from the nearby slums gain access to the school to kill time and indulge in damaging the school infrastructure,” said one of the conservancy workers in Thennur. Unlike private schools, there are no security guards for any of the corporation or government schools which has been the primary reason for such activities, she said. Speaking to TOI, Trichy district chief education officer S Santhi said that she has asked the respective school head to get CCTV footage from the nearby areas so that a complaint be lodged in the police station against such activities. “People living around a government school are the stakeholders and they should be ensuring safety of the infrastructure. It is unfortunate that some of them don’t realise it and indulge in vandalising school property,” she said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/miscreants-turn-corpn-school-into-den-of-anti-social-activities/articleshow/75131044.cms||---
April 14, 2020||Nagpur||Half of ward nos 3 & 5 in city’s 3rd containment zone||Nagpur: Municipal commissioner Tukaram Mundhe on Monday notified a new containment zone covering half of ward nos 3 and 5. With this, the containment zones where there is prohibition in movement of common man has increased to three in the city.Mundhe issued a notification on Monday notifying the containment zone. All areas within Itabhatti Chowk, Ring Road (north-west), Pili River at Vandevi Nagar (north), Kalamna gate no-1 Koradi line (east), Kawrapeth Shantinagar railway gate (south-west) and Kanjihouse Chowk, Binaki (West) are covered under the zone. Some of these areas fall in north Nagpur, while others in east Nagpur.The residents of these areas cannot go outside, excluding medical emergency and funeral. People from other areas too cannot enter the zone. If there is any unidentified positive person in the area, it will help in preventing spread of the virus in adjoining localities.Mundhe said, “Containment drive is very important for preventing further spread of the virus. It had proved very beneficial in controlling the number of Covid-19 cases in Bajaj Nagar, Khamla and Jaripatka. Door-to-door survey will be conducted by NMC teams daily to identify people who came in close contact with positive persons and high-risk patients. People can get rid of the virus if they get treatment in the initial stage. Therefore, people should stay at home and inform the NMC teams in case of any symptoms.”One of the relatives of the deceased from Satranjipura zone tested positive on Sunday. He is a resident of Rajiv Gandhi Nagar. The person’s house is considered as epicentre and areas in 3km radius have been notified as containment zone.City’s first two containment zones were Bajaj Nagar and Khamla, which have finished incubation period.There are two containment zones in the city currently. Entire Mominpura in ward no 8 is a containment zone with boundaries at Motibagh railway under bridge (north-west), Panchpaoli railway over bridge (north-east), Agrasen chowk (south-east) and Poddareshwar Ram Mandir (south-west). Here, a cap seller was found positive on April 4 followed by eight more on Sunday and Monday.Similarly, the containment zone at Satranjipura has boundaries at AMA Company Maldhakka road (north-east), Umiya Shankar School (south-east), Masurkar Chowk (south-west), Hotel Madina Maaldhakka road (north-west), Bauddhisatva Bauddh Vihar and Sunil Hotel (east). These areas are in ward nos 21 and 22 in east Nagpur.The NMC is yet to take a decision on notifying containment zone on Katol Road. One of the daughters with two children of Satranjipura deceased tested positive on Sunday. She is a resident of Welcome Society, Katol Road, in West Nagpur.An NMC official said, “It is under investigation. The woman said she was staying at Satranjipura for the last couple of months and did not go home at Welcome Society. Around 15 more persons are residing in the house at Welcome Society. We are checking whether the woman had gone there or any of 15 persons met the deceased or any other relatives tested positive,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/half-of-ward-nos-3-5-in-citys-3rd-containment-zone/articleshow/75130443.cms||Anjaya Anparthi
April 14, 2020||Goa||Govt offices sanitised, staff set to work in batches||Panaji: With the state government deciding to reopen its offices on Wednesday, most of the premises were cleaned and sanitised on Monday. Only 50% government employees will join duty on any particular day in three different time slots in their respective departments. The government has said that people should avoid visiting the offices. “We have staggered work hours. The office has been cleaned and sanitised and we will begin clearing files and proposals from Wednesday,” transport director Rajan Satardekar told TOI. Additional collector (North Goa) Dasharath Redkar said that routine work is being carried out at the collectorate, including issuing of travel passes, permissions to open eateries and so on. “There is no general public visiting the collectorate,” he said. PWD officers have been working through the lockdown.The department’s offices, which were not functioning, have been cleaned and sanitised, PWD principal chief engineer Uttam Parsekar said. Electricity department assistant engineer (Bicholim) Deepak Gawas said that the office, with limited staff, was sanitised with the help of Bicholim municipality. He also said that they have not started accepting bill payments at the office yet. An order issued by general administration undersecretary Shripad Arlekar states that all HODs “shall ensure that the employees are called to office on alternate day basis so that not more than 50% strength of the employees shall attend office on a particular day and the remaining shall work from home”. The government has staggered working hours for all employees into three slots — 9am to 4pm, 9.30am to 5pm and 10am to 5.30pm.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/govt-offices-sanitised-staff-set-to-work-in-batches/articleshow/75131043.cms||Murari Shetye
April 14, 2020||Ahmedabad||From obstruction during the Spanish Flu to Covid-19 frontline||Ahmedabad: The civic body in Ahmedabad may be a frontline agency in the fight against the coronavirus pandemic today, but it showed a different, rather anti-people character under the British rule, when the Spanish Flu struck the city in 1918 killing as many as 3,527 persons, more than 1% of its population. The Ahmedabad Municipal Corporation (AMC) is now requisitioning whatever it needs to to curb the spread of the novel coronavirus and track and treat patients. It has taken over clubs, hotels, apartments to create quarantine facilities for suspected patients and for people who landed in Ahmedabad from abroad. It leads the battle by introducing new rules every day. But its character appeared appallingly different, when it refused to provide a school building to house patients of the Spanish Flu in 1918. The fight against the flu was then led by voluntary organizations, mainly the Gujarat Sabha.  The book ‘The Spanish Influenza Pandemic of 1918-1919: New Perspectives’ says the Gujarat Sabha and other organizations together set up the Influenza Relief Committee, and a hospital with 125 beds was opened in a building donated by a local businessman. The book describes how students of BJ Medical College and teachers volunteered for house-to-house visits in the city and surrounding villages. The funds came from mill owners, Maskaty Mahajan, Panch Kuva Mahajan and the Yarn Merchants Mahajan among others. Twenty-five dispensaries were established and some 3,000 patients were cared for. “In contrast to other cities, the municipality of Ahmedabad seems to have been obstructionist to relief efforts, refusing the use of one of its school buildings as a hospital. In fact, this indifference to the suffering of the people and the ‘chronic insanitary condition of the city’ were the subject of six editorials in Praja Bandhu (a weekly),” the book says about the role of the civic body then functioning under the British rule.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/from-obstruction-during-the-spanish-flu-to-covid-19-frontline/articleshow/75131053.cms||---
April 14, 2020||Goa||‘Summer rain major blow to cashew crop’||Panaji: The sudden downpour in parts of Goa caused due to the development of a trough in the Arabian Sea has hit the state’s agricultural sector. Cashew farmers fear that the crop may receive a major blow if the rains don’t stop and the cloudy weather continues to prevail. “It has been continuously raining in Goa since Friday, from Usgao to Guleli . If it doesn’t stop, we will lose the remaining crop that is yet to be harvested,” said farmer Ashok Joshi. There is about 30-40% of locally-grown crop yet to be plucked, while grafts comprising 10-20% crop are yet to be harvested, farmers said. Once the monsoon sets in, the cashewkernels begin to absorb moisture from the environment and soften. This leads to the deterioration of the taste, texture, flavor and aroma of the nuts. The produce then goes to waste, leading to losses for farmers. Cashew processing plants in the state have currently suspended exports owing to the lockdown, leaving the farmers looking for a local market besides battling the problem of lowered rates. “Wholesalers and other industrialists are not purchasing the cashews from us. Goa Bagayatdar has given the highest rates so far, which are much lower than last year’s” a cashew processor said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/summer-rain-major-blow-to-cashew-crop/articleshow/75131047.cms||---
April 14, 2020||Trichy||Lockdown has little effect on Marudur panchayat residents||TRICHY: For people in Panikampatti village, lockdown has hardly made any difference as many are seen roaming on the streets unmindful of keeping social distance. Same is the case with Koodalur village where shops could be seen open after 1pm where people are shopping groceries. These villages are located within 8km from Periya Palam where the first positive case of Covid-19 was reported in Karur district. Locals blame it on Marudur town panchayat that has failed to take proactive steps sensitizing people. “Since most of the people are farmers, they cannot be fully blamed for ignorance,” says K Sundaresan, 41, from Panikampatti village who works in a private company in Trichy. But the local body workers have not shown up even for the basic sanitising work as it is happening in other villages and panchayats. “The rain a couple of days ago has adversely affected banana corps and other plantations. People didn’t wear face mask or even cover their face here,” said S Rajesh, a local from Koodalur village. Police personnel too seem to be ignorant unlike in the city where there is strict vigil. Panikampatti can be an ideal example of how lockdown is flouted. However, the consequences can be catastrophic, even if it is a village, he said. Officials from Marudur panchayat could not be reached for comment despite attempts over phone.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/lockdown-has-little-effect-on-marudur-panchayat-residents/articleshow/75131049.cms||---
April 14, 2020||Nagpur||Forest guides seek urgent help to tide over lockdown woes||Nagpur: With uncertainty looming large over their livelihood because of the novel coronavirus (Covid-19) outbreak and the resultant lockdown, forest guides have demanded immediate help to tide over the financial crisis their families are facing. Maharashtra Rajya Abhayaranya Guides Union (MRAGU) has appealed to the forest department that their members be accorded assistance similar to what is available for regular employees. Narendra Wankhede, joint secretary of the union, said closure of parks has impacted forest guides. “There is no other source of income for our members. It’s almost like the life of a daily wager and it depends on the inflow of tourists to the park,” said Wankhede. The union believes that since the closure of parks is a nationwide thing, they must be taken care of by the department itself. “Our members can be hired by the forest department for some work which will at least keep our homes functioning normally,” he said. The union, through its members in multiple parks, has urged authorities to take this up on priority. A guide told TOI that government should announce some kind of financial assistance scheme for them. “We don’t come under below poverty line (BPL) category. Even though it has been announced to provide ration to APL families too, but that’s a very cumbersome process. All government employees are still getting salaries despite there not being any work. Why should we then be deprived of such a facility,” said a guide, who did not wish to be identified.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/forest-guides-seek-urgent-help-to-tide-over-lockdown-woes/articleshow/75129629.cms||Abhishek Choudhari
April 14, 2020||Goa||Indoco Remedies set to send second batch of meds to UK||Panaji: After shipping 11.7 lakh paracetamol tablets from its Verna-based plant to UK on Sunday, Indoco Remedies said that the remaining stock of the medicines are ready for shipment and will be airlifted on the coming relief flights to the UK. The British government has organised three more relief flights from Goa with the next one slated to take off on Tuesday from the Goa International Airport. Subsequent flights will be on April 16 and 18. Indoco Remedies’ company secretary Jayshankar Menon informed the stock indices that the drug manufacturer has received an order for 4.48 crore tablets from the UK government. The tablets, which are used to treat fever, cold and as a pain relief, are destined for UK’s National Health Service (NHS) for the treatment of Covid-19 cases. “Indoco has been part of the great initiative by the Indian government to export paracetamol tablets to the UK in its fight against Covid 19. The first shipment of 11.7 lakh paracetamol tablets to the UK was airlifted on April 12 from Goa airport,” Menon said. On Sunday, the medicines were loaded onto a Titan Airways flight, which is part of the UK government’s efforts to repatriate its citizens stranded in India. “The permission granted by the Indian government is for a total air shipment of 4.48 crore tablets. The remaining quantity is ready for shipment and will be airlifted depending on availability of flights,” Menon said. The Centre has allowed exports of anti-malarial drugs and other medicines used in the treatment of Covid-19 .||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/indoco-remedies-set-to-send-second-batch-of-meds-to-uk/articleshow/75131048.cms||---
April 14, 2020||Pune||Siblings, both techies, drown in Mula river with uncle||Pune: Two siblings — both software engineers — and their maternal uncle on Sunday evening drowned in Mula river at Chas village in Ahmednagar district, about 120km from the city . Assistant sub-inspector B Y Tople of the Akole police said, “The accident occurred around 5pm, when the techies — Sachin Phapale (36) of Pune and his younger brother Pravin (32) of Mumbai — had entered the water for swimming. When the duo started drowning, their uncle, Sunil Wadekar (40) of Chas, jumped into the river to rescue them. But all the three drowned.” The Phapale brothers had come to stay at their native village Pimpaldari village in Ahmednagar district with their families following the coronavirus outbreak. Tople said had the trio remained at home amid the lockdown, the accident could have been averted. The sub-inspector said the Paphale brothers had gone to Wadekar’s house at Chas on Sunday evening. He said the Phapale brothers failed to gauge the depth of the water and started drowning. “Seeing that, Wadekar rushed to their rescue. Their another relative on the banks of the river alerted the residents about the drowning incident. The trio were immediately taken out of water and rushed to a hospital, where doctors pronounced them dead on arrival,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/siblings-both-techies-drown-in-mula-river-with-uncle/articleshow/75131050.cms||Mihir Tanksale
April 14, 2020||Goa||Prices skyrocket as Goa’s supply of chicken thins out||PANAJI: Chicken dealers in Panaji had been seeing fewer customers due to rumours about coronavirus spreading through consumption of poultry. Soon after this myth was busted, traders were struck with the news of an outbreak of avian influenza (bird flu) in chickens in Kodryathur and Kozhikode in Kerala and Devenagere in Mysore, Karnataka. Days later, the complete ban on chicken import from other states to Goa only made matters worse for poultry traders. Even though the state government has now allowed the entry and transportation of eggs into Goa from areas not affected by the flu, traders are seeing bleak business. Afroz chicken store, Panaji, which was usually abuzz with shoppers prior to the lockdown, has been wearing a deserted look even after the government ban on poultry was relaxed by allowing the import of chicken from states other than Kerala and Karnataka. “Only three trucks arrived from Maharashtra in the Panaji market. This will not meet the total consumption of the city. Other towns also received a limited number of trucks,” a butcher said. President of Quraishi meat traders association Manna Bepari said that the total requirement of Goa is approximately 40 tonne of chicken per day. “Of this, around 30 tonne is sourced from Karnataka and the rest from Maharashtra and within Goa,” he said. The complete ban on chicken from Karnataka has put a massive dent in supply to the state. “As a result of the shortage, chicken prices have spiked to between Rs 200 and 220 per kg from Rs 140 per kg. This extent of price rise is irrational,” said chicken trader Salhauddin Shaikh. While stocks of frozen chicken kept in cold storage are likely to be exhausted within a day or two , fresh eggs are still freely available at grocery shops.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/prices-skyrocket-as-states-supply-of-chicken-thins-out/articleshow/75131057.cms||Nida Sayed
April 14, 2020||Trichy||Man kills self by jumping off temple in Tamil Nadu||TIRUVARUR: A 40-year-old man committed suicide by jumping off the northern tower at the Thyagaraja Swami Temple in Tiruvarur. Preliminary inquiry by the police revealed that debt was the reason behind the incident. The deceased was identified as Jayabal, a resident of Mudaliyar Street in Tiruvarur. He was employed in a company in the Middle East and had returned to his native six months back. Since he was unmarried, he had been residing with his mother and younger brother. While jumping off the tower, he fell on a high tension live cable passing along the road, leading to instant death. On information, the Tiruvarur town police rushed to the spot and retrieved his body and sent it to the Government Medical College Hospital in Tiruvarur for postmortem. Debt burden was the reason for Jayabal to take the extreme step, police said quoting his family members. Police have registered a case and commenced investigation.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/man-kills-self-by-jumping-off-temple/articleshow/75131062.cms||---
April 14, 2020||Nagpur||One more from Yavatmal tests positive, Vidarbha total is 96||NAGPUR: A 40-year-old man from Yavatmal, who was among the close high risk contacts of one of the eight confirmed positive Covid-19 cases in city, tested positive on Monday. This takes the total number of Covid-19 positive cases in Yavatmal to 12. Out of these, three patients have recovered and been discharged. Currently, nine patients are admitted in the isolation ward of GMCH Yavatmal. Seven of them are from other states (UP, West Bengal and Delhi) while two are from Yavatmal, who came into their contact. A massive active surveillance and sealing of the areas where these positive patients used to reside is under way in Yavatmal from last three days. More than 150 swab samples were collected and sent for testing. Out of them, 104 had tested negative till Monday, while one tested positive. On Monday, there were 154 persons in isolation wards of GMCH Yavatmal and 64 are in institutional quarantine, of whom 23 are in the Dhamangaon Road-based Government Girls Hostel and 41 are kept in the Boys Hostel of GMCH Yavatmal. Lab In Chandrapur?Minister for relief and rehabilitation, and disaster management and guardian minister of Chandrapur, Vijay Wadettiwar announced establishment of a separate lab for testing Covid-19 samples in Chandrapur. He claimed the lab for coronavirus will be established at Chandrapur Government Medical College and Hospital (GMCH) here at a cost of Rs2.18 crore. He claimed that this sum would be fetched from social responsibility funds of mining department of Chandrapur district. The work on the new lab will begin from Tuesday, he said. Currently, all samples of suspected coronavirus patients in Chandrapur are being sent to Nagpur for testing. Health administration has identified 47 people as suspected patients in Chandrapur district. Samples of 39 patients have been sent for testing and they have received 28 reports, all of which were negative. Remaining 11 reports are still awaited. Lab in Amravati tooGuardian minister of Amravati Yashomati Thakur claimed that a Covid-19 laboratory will be established in Amravati. Thakur tweeted this late on Monday evening, saying she has already spoken to health minister Rajesh Tope and chief minister Uddhav Thackeray in this regard. The lab will start either at the microbiology department of Amravati University or in the Punjabrao Deshmukh Medical College. Total 113 samples from Amravati are yet to be tested and results are pending. Till date, 409 swab samples have been sent from Amravati, 271 of them tested negative, 5 tested positive while 10 were invalid.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/1-more-from-yavatmal-tests-positive-vidarbha-total-is-96/articleshow/75130450.cms||---
April 14, 2020||Nagpur||Mundhe suspends assistant teacher for ‘leaking info’||NAGPUR: Municipal commissioner Tukaram Mundhe on Monday suspended assistant teacher Rajesh Gavre, who is also the president of Nagpur Mahanagarpalika Shikshak Sangh, for leaking information pertaining to the containment drive launched last month by the Nagpur Municipal Corporation (NMC). As per the suspension order signed by Mundhe, Gavre has been posted at NMC’s Priyadarshini Secondary School, Futala in Dharampeth zone and directed to report every day at NMC’s education department office in Civil Lines, until further order. Gavre refuted the allegation levelled against him, claiming that he had been doing the containment survey for the NMC right from the beginning, and had continued till April 11. “My only mistake was that being the president of the teachers’ union, I sought a few benefits like health insurance, masks, gloves etc for teachers (who had been summoned for containment survey duty amid coronavirus scare),” he said. Gavre’s other demands included implementing teachers’ duty on rotation basis and to exclude those retiring within a couple of months from the survey duty. He termed the civic chief’s action as “undemocratic”.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/mundhe-suspends-asst-teacher-for-leaking-info/articleshow/75131063.cms||Proshun Chakraborty
April 14, 2020||Trichy||Police destroy over 4,600 liquor bottles seized in Trichy||TRICHY: Trichy rural police on Monday destroyed more than 4,500 bottles of liquor that were seized from hoarders during and before the lockdown. Acting on a special order from the court, a police team drained the liquor from 4,616 bottles that were seized from almost all the police station limits in Trichy district. Majority of them were hoarded by the anti-social elements to sell in the black market. Superintendent of police (SP) Zia Ul Haq said that those were the liquor bottles seized before and during the lockdown. It may be pointed out that Trichy witnessed around 50 break-in cases at Tasmac shops, illegal liquor sale by the Tasmac employees, brewing of illicit liquor and sale of toddy. In the wake of the incident where two shops were burgled of liquor worth Rs 1.2 lakh in the city, the Tasmac management had shifted the stock from 46 vulnerable shops in the district to godowns in Thuvakudi and Rathinavel Devar hall on West Boulevard road. “Since the supervisors of the liquor shops have the keys with them, they have opened the shops and shifted a few liquor bottles to their locations. They also fake records as if it was sold before the lockdown,” said a police officer on condition of anonymity. Supervisors tend to sell liquor in the black market. In Trichy district, more than 10 supervisors were arrested in this connection. Police also seized liquor from many people for hoarding liquor bought from liquor shops illegally. The district also came across five cases of sale of toddy and illicit liquor each during the lockdown.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/police-destroy-over-4600-liquor-bottles-seized-in-trichy/articleshow/75131069.cms||---
April 14, 2020||Nagpur||Three more Covid-19 patients in Nagpur, tally reaches 47||NAGPUR: After 17 new positive cases of Covid-19 were reported on Sunday, three more persons tested positive on Monday, taking the total number of coronavirus cases in the city to 47. So far, Nagpur has reported highest number of cases in Vidarbha followed by Buldhana (17), Akola (13) and Yavatmal (12). Total cases in the region are now at 96, including three deaths and 12 fully recovered patients who have been discharged. Authorities informed that the latest three, detected on Monday, are from the eight Tablighi Jamaat members from Jabalpur who were on a religious tour to the city. On Sunday, four of them had tested positive. Thus, seven persons from the group have been tested positive. Nagpur Markaz secretary Abdul Bari Patel told TOI, “Monday’s three cases are among the eight TJs of Jabalpur who had arrived here on March 17. After the lockdown, they were moved to Darul Salah on March 22. Four of them have tested positive a day ago and three on Monday. Report of the remaining one is yet to be known.” Darul Salah is situated in Takia Deewanshah, Mominpura, and three homes away from the residence of the cap-seller who tested positive on April 4. On Sunday, son of the owner of the building where the cap-seller used to reside as tenant had also tested positive. Following orders of the ministry of home affairs and other agencies, the NMC had traced, examined and quarantined 281 persons including the eight TJs of Jabalpur. The eight were part of 60 TJs traced, examined and quarantined at MLA Hostel on April 3. Reports of seven TJs of Jabalpur came on 10th and 11th day. Now, they will have to undergo treatment for 14 days and another 14 days under home quarantine.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/three-more-covid-19-patients-in-city-tally-reaches-47/articleshow/75130454.cms||Chaitanya Deshpande
April 14, 2020||Goa||Fishermen warned of rough seas in days ahead||Panaji: The India meteorological department (IMD) has issued a fishermen warning on Monday cautioning them of rough sea conditions over South Tamil Nadu, Kerala and Lakshadweep, advising them not to venture into these areas. “There is a possibility that the sea will be rough near the shore and also the low-lying areas may experience surges intermittently during high tide times due to the combined effect of high period swell waves, having 1.9 - 2.3 m height, and spring tides,” the IMD advisory read. On land, light rain and thundershowers occurred at isolated places in Goa. There was no large change in maximum temperature over North Goa and South Goa districts. The highest maximum temperature of 34.4°C was recorded at Mormugao. There was no large change in minimum temperature of both the districts as well. The lowest minimum temperature of 25.5°C was recorded at Mormugao station. The daily rainfall recorded for 24 hours at rain gauge stations revealed that the Sakhali station reported 0.5mm of rainfall which is very light and Valpoi only received a trace of rainfall.  Bicholim and Canacona were comparatively less affected talukas. A nowcast issued by the Goa IMD said that light thunderstorm clouds were approaching the talukas of Sattari and Dharbandora on Monday night.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/fishermen-warned-of-rough-seas-in-days-ahead/articleshow/75131066.cms||---
April 14, 2020||Pune||Pune: Duo in cop net with marijuana||PUNE: Two youths posed as civic staffers to buy marijuana and promptly landed in police net on Sunday evening. One of the suspects wore a PMC staffer’s uniform, while the other wore a reflective jacket. They rode a scooter from Parvati to Khadakwasla, bought 220 grams of marijuana worth Rs2,100 and were returning, when they were stopped at a Haveli police checkpoint at 6.30pm. “We checked the boot of the scooter and found the drugs,” Shelke said. The duo admitted that the uniform and the reflective jacket that belonged to a PMC employee who had passed away a few months ago. They admitted that they made alterations to the attire and would use it to buy marijuana during the lockdown. “We have come to know about this impersonation. It amounts to fooling the public. We wil file a case,” said Ravindra Throat from PMC’s legal department.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/duo-in-cop-net-with-marijuana/articleshow/75131067.cms||---
April 14, 2020||Ahmedabad||GSHSEB to resume evaluation work from April 16||Ahmedabad: The Gujarat Secondary and Higher Secondary Education Board (GSHSEB) has decided to resume evaluation of answerbooks from April 16 and has conveyed the examiners to reach assigned centres, which are more than 300 at present. Board officials said that looking at the pandemic situation the board may add nearly 100 more centres for convenience of some 50,000 teachers, whose healthcare is of utmost importance for the board. The evaluation of answerbooks of science stream had begun, but it was stalled due to the lockdown. The teachers question the system because one answersheet is normally examined by five examiners and it changes many hands. At present, the board has asked the centres to be prepared with hand sanitizers, mask and transportation facilities and they will have to give enough space so that teachers can maintain social distancing. A meeting through video-conferencing involving all district education officials will take place on Tuesday to assess the preparedness of the centres.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/gshseb-to-resume-evaluation-work-from-april-16/articleshow/75130781.cms||---
April 14, 2020||Ranchi||Five more Covid-19 cases in Jharkhand||RANCHI: Five more persons tested positive for Covid-19 in Jharkhand on Monday, taking the total number of the novel coronavirus cases to 24, of which are 22 active cases, while two have died. Among the five, three are from Ranchi’s Hindpiri area and one each from Bokaro and Giridih districts. Official sources said all the five came in contact with patients who tested positive in the last one week. State health secretary Nitin Madan Kulkarni said: “We have detected five more patients with Covid-19. Three are from Ranchi and one each from Bokaro and Giridih.” The three patients from Hindpiri are aged between 35 and 45 and two of them had direct contact with a cleric with links to a Tablighi Jamaat group and one of them had a direct contact with 60 year old man from same area who passed away on Saturday morning at RIMS. In Bokaro, the 27-year-old man who tested positive is the fourth member of a family from Sadam village in Gomia block to be diagnosed with the disease. “The patient is nephew of the 75-year-old man who died last Thursday. His samples were collected on Saturday after he was traced during our contact history exercise,” said Bokaro DC Mukesh Kumar. In Giridih, a 55-year-old woman from Jahnadih village in Dhanwar block tested positive for Covid-19. Her son had tested positive two days ago, said Giridih DC Rahul Sinha.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/5-more-covid-19-cases-in-jharkhand/articleshow/75129821.cms||Gaurav Pandey
April 14, 2020||Ranchi||CII seeks subsidies, monetary assistance to industries||RANCHI: The Jharkhand chapter of Confederation of Indian Industries (CII) on Monday suggested that the Hemant Soren government takes up a slew of measures to keep the state's industries afloat after the lockdown. Describing the current scenario as unprecedented, CII Jharkhand chairman Sanjay Sabherwal advocated that the government allows the manufacturing units to open in a phased manner and facilitates a series of initiatives to boost the already limping micro, small and medium enterprises (MSMEs). Speaking to TOI, Sabherwal said, “We have sought time from the Jharkhand government to hold detailed deliberations on ways to facilitate industries post the lockdown.” The group also advocated that the government sets up a committee of ministers and constitutes a task force of bureaucrats to take up and resolve issues faced by industries in real time. Its suggestions include waiving off monthly power tariff rentals of MSMEs for the ongoing lockdown period and directing banks to increase credit limits by 25% over and above the existing interest subvention to manage working capitals, give specific subsidies to industries to boost production and provide cash to the lower strata and the informal sector. “At first, manufacturing, construction and e-commerce businesses should start, followed by the rest of the sectors in the next 2-3 weeks. Transportation and logistics have to be facilitated so that supply chain of raw materials and finished products does not break,” Sabherwal said. The CII, however, said it is the state government’s prerogative on deciding when to allow the industrial units to begin its production depending on the ground scenario and the risk factors involved. Conceding that the 2019-20 FY was a “difficult period” for MSMEs in Jharkhand, Sabherwal said the damage caused by the lockdown is likely to lead to closures of many units. In the previous fiscal, the MSMEs catering to auto sector reported extensive financial losses and the auto sector, the finances of which plunged in the third quarter, were forced to cut jobs. The industry body further suggested that the state must set up migratory workers’ Covid-19 insurance fund that can be partly funded by the government and the industrial houses. Advocating for a tripartite meeting among migrant workers, government and labour unions, the CII underscored the need to increase awareness about sanitation and hygiene protocols among workers at the industrial units once work resumes. It also suggested using e-passes on a national level to migrant workers by local authorities to allow them go to their places of work.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/cii-seeks-subsidies-monetary-assistance-to-industries/articleshow/75129403.cms||Dhritiman Ray
April 14, 2020||Ranchi||Close to 2,000 corona samples tested in Jharkhand so far||RANCHI: With Jharkhand getting its third Covid-19 testing laboratory at Patliputra Medical College and Hospital (PMCH), Dhanbad, which started its operations from Monday, the state can now test 90 additional samples at the maximum on a daily basis. Till date, Rims in Ranchi and MGM in Jamshedpur are testing the samples. So far, the two centres have tested 1,885 samples of which 1,505 were tested in Rims. Rims, which has two testing machines, has received maximum number of samples from across the state. MGM, with one testing machine, caters to the Kolhan region. Rims officials said they have collected 1,815 samples till Monday and reports of 1,505 samples will be delivered by the microbiology department by Monday night and results of 354 samples are pending. Talking to TOI, Rims microbiology department head Dr Manoj Kumar said, “We have tested maximum samples as we have been receiving samples from 19 of the 24 districts in the state since March 24. Prior to March 24, we had sent 10 samples to NICED, Kolkata, between February 11 and March 11. Moreover, 23 samples collected at our centre were tested at MGM Jamshedpur between March 12 and March 23.” MGM micribiologist Piyali Gupta said, “We have tested a total of around 380 samples till date, which included samples from Rims and other districts before March 23. Earlier, we used to test a total of around 20-25 samples, but the average count has gone up to 60 in the last few days.” MGM, which is the first to start the tests in the state on March 12, covers five districts, including East Singhbhum, West Singhbhum, Seraikela, Khunti and Simdega, all in Kolhan region. On the less number of tests in comparison with Rims, Gupta said, “We only have only one RT-PCR machine and the flow of samples at our centre was less as compared to Rims since we only cater to five districts.” Dr Manoj of Rims said, “We have two RT-PCR machines but the process is time taking and we have been able to cross the mark of 146 tests a day on several occasions and very soon we will be able to touch the 180 mark, which is our maximum output from the two machines. We have also suffered setbacks for two days as one of our machines broke down. Both machines are running fine now and we are testing samples in two batches.” The PMCH testing centre started on Monday after it received ICMR’s nod on Saturday. “We have tested 46 samples on Monday of which 29 were collected on Saturday and 17 on Sunday,” PMCH principal Dr Shailendra Kumar said. Till date, 19 samples at Rims have tested positive while all samples from the MGM centre have tested negative.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/close-to-2k-corona-samples-tested-in-state-so-far/articleshow/75129350.cms||Gaurav Pandey
April 14, 2020||Mangaluru||Lockdown delays desilting of historic lake in Mangaluru||MANGALURU: The lockdown is bound to delay completion of civic projects. In Mangaluru, one of the projects that the lockdown has deferred, very likely for a year, is the desilting of the historic Gujjarakere. In 2019, the localities surrounding Gujjarakere reported a worrying spike in the number of dengue cases, which the residents attributed to stagnation of water in the lake, and asked the authorities to desilt the waterbody, and rid it of weeds. Mangaluru Smart City Ltd (MSCL), which initiated a project to revive the 1,800-year-old lake, is currently waiting for approval from the Dakshina Kannada district administration to go ahead with the desilting operation. If the desilting of the lake is deferred now, MSCL will have to wait for another year to carry out the exercise, which is likely to upset Mangaluru residents. MSCL had chalked out a plan for the rejuvenation of Kavoorkere and Gujjarkere, primarily with the aim of improving the quality of water in the two lakes, in addition to increasing their retention capacity. MSCL had earmarked a sum of Rs 12 crore for the revival of the two waterbodies. MSCL managing director Mohammed Nazeer said that the weeds were being cleared manually from the lakebed. "We are also putting in place a system to prevent the flow of sewage from the underground drain network into Gujjarakere. The lake has an outlet, which will prevent water from stagnating. Work also needs to be initiated on landscaping and cleaning the premises of the lake so it can be turned into a recreational space. We have approached the district administration seeking approval to go ahead with these plans. Desilting has to be completed before the onset of the monsoon, failing which we will have to undertake the exercise next year," Nazeer told TOI. Samples of water taken from Gujjarakere that were tested in a laboratory following the rise in dengue cases last July found that it was unfit for drinking, in addition to confirming an abnormal level of faecal coliform count. Secretary of the Gujjarakere Samrakshana Vedike P Nemu Kottari said that desilting and revival of the lake was vital to ensuring the preserving the balance of the local ecology.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mangaluru/lockdown-delays-desilting-of-historic-lake-in-mangaluru/articleshow/75130324.cms||Deepthi Sanjiv
April 14, 2020||Ranchi||Four arrested, many detained for objectionable social media posts||GUMLA: Police in Sisai arrested four persons for allegedly posting objectionable messages against a particular community on a social media groups late on Sunday. The arrests are related to social media posts that triggered violence between two communities in Gumla district on April 7. One person died and five sustained injuries in the clashes. Sisai OC Vishnu Dev Chaudhary said, "The culprits have been booked under section 253 of IPC and Section 54 of the Disaster Management Act 2005.” Circle officer Sumant Tirkey said the arrested persons are Chhotelal Singh Kherwar, Ajay Singh Kherwar, Manoj Singh Kherwar and Vijay Singh Kherwar. “All of them have been sent to jail for derogatory posts about a particular community,” he said. In a separate case, more than two dozen persons have been identified and detained for interrogation for committing a similar offence in Basia, police said on Monday. Basia SDPO Deepak Kumar said, “Police have identified the persons and detained over two dozen for spreading rumours that could damage communal harmony.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/4-arrested-many-detained-for-objectionable-social-media-posts/articleshow/75129619.cms||---
April 14, 2020||Ranchi||Slow internet speed, power cuts, lack of smartphones hinder students’ studies||RANCHI: Students in the state, particularly in the rural areas, are facing difficulties in pursuing their online classes because of various reasons, including poor internet connectivity, power cuts and unavailability of smartphones and computers. Internet Service Providers also admitted that their speed capacity has reduced considerably because of increased user traffic during the lockdown. However, all schools, colleges and coaching centres across Jharkhand have opted the online route to ensure completion of courses. The institutes are uploading study material and assignments online, with some using third party video-conferencing apps or incoprating video-uploading apps with their own websites. Ravindra Kumar, a post-graduate student of English at the Central University of Jharkhand, said, “Our department has started online classes but due to unavailability of power and poor data connectivity, it gets harder for me to attend the online lectures. Hence, my teachers are now choosing audio lectures to cope up with the slow speed.” Harsh Kumar, a Class XI student of DAV Kapil Dev School, said, “My teachers are uploading video lectures, but there is a tussle for the smartphone at home as my two younger sisters also have to go through their video lectures. We have been fighting as to who gets to use the smartphone.” Authorities of Kolhan University said they have uploaded more than 1,000 lecture videos on their portal for students, but said they accepted the fact that a large group of their students is not able to avail the service. Talking to TOI, vice-chancellor of the university, Shukla Mohanty, said, “Most of our students are from rural areas and do not own a smartphone or a computer. Hence, they cannot go through our lecture videos on our website. We are continuously searching for other modes to reach out to our students so that they also can study. We are now considering to send SMS alerts to those students and to inform them of what to read at least.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/slow-internet-speed-power-cuts-lack-of-smartphones-hinder-students-studies/articleshow/75129692.cms||---
April 14, 2020||Ranchi||Jharkhand to follow Centre’s call on lockdown||RANCHI: Chief minister Hemant Soren on Monday said the state will follow whatever the Centre decides on the lockdown. Coming out of the cabinet meeting, Hemant said it was a collective decision of the state and he is waiting for the Centre to come up with a decision. “During the cabinet meeting, our colleagues also suggested that the lockdown should be extended, but we are also concerned about the challenges of the lockdown and any reopening,” he said. Soren said essential services have already been kept out of the purview of lockdown but they have still been derailed. “Our focus is to restore normalcy in the sectors that are exempted from the lockdown. Recently, we have procuring milk from farmers to convert it to powdered milk so that the produce is not wasted and the farmers get some financial relief,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/jharkhand-to-follow-centres-call-on-lockdown/articleshow/75129646.cms||---
April 14, 2020||Ranchi||JSBC seeks funds from Bar Council of India for its cash-strapped lawyers||RANCHI: The Jharkhand State Bar Council (JSBC) on Saturday wrote to the Bar Council of India (BCI), seeking funds from it in order to help the advocates who are going through a tough time financially because of the ongoing lockdown. The JSBC’s letter stated, “JSBC does not receive any grant or aid from either the Centre or the state government and in such a situation, it has become extremely difficult for the council to provide assistance to the cash-strapped advocates.” When asked, JSBC chairman Rajendra Krishna said that at least six district bar associations, including that of Ranchi, Daltonganj and Garhwa, have sought financial help in order to help their affiliated lawyers. He added that a large of number of advocates from the Jharkhand high court have also spoken to him in this regard and they said that such lawyers should be given financial assistance. He further said that under the present circumstances, JSBC has initiated a scheme for the welfare of the lawyers. Under the scheme, all the district bar associations, affiliated to JSBC, have been asked to roll out a helpline number for the cash-strapped lawyers. The associations have been directed to either help them from their own reserve or refer their cases to JSBC. Krishna added, “The JSBC members have contributed a small amount in this connection and we have also sought aid from the state government in this regard. The aim is to have a fund ready when demands from the associations and the lawyers pour in.” According to JSBC sources, some bar associations, including that of Dhanbad and Bokaro, have already started helping out their needy members. Meanwhile, the Ranchi District Bar Association (RDBA) has demanded Rs 50 lakh from the BCI to help out its lawyers financially. Sanjay Vidrohi, the former RDBA general secretary, said around 2,000 lawyers come to the court regularly and at least 20% of them are dependent on their daily earnings.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/jsbc-seeks-funds-from-bar-council-of-india-for-its-cash-strapped-lawyers/articleshow/75129465.cms||---
April 14, 2020||Jamshedpur||Sanitise all East Singhbhum villages: District Congress chief||JAMSHEDPUR: The East Singhbhum district head from Congress party, Vijay Khan, has urged the panchayat minister, Alamgir Alam, to make sure that all the 231 village panchayats in the district are sanitised. In a letter to Alam, Khan pointed out that just like the urban areas, the villages also need to be sanitised to prevent the virus from spreading. Khan also suggested that the distribution of food items among the villagers should be done with the help of mukhiyas so that no one is left out and the mukhiyas have to be made accountable for this. Meanwhile, after the rise in the number of Covid-19 cases in the state, many villages in the district are keeping a close watch at their respective entry points to prevent the entry of outsiders. Durga Hansda, a resident of Gaitadih village, said, “Those suffering from coronavirus may sneak into our area and try to infect the locals, thus, we are keeping a strict vigil at the entry points.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jamshedpur/sanitise-all-east-singhbhum-villages-dist-cong-chief/articleshow/75129528.cms||---
April 14, 2020||Jamshedpur||Five more Covid-19 cases in Jharkhand||RANCHI: Five more persons tested positive for Covid-19 in Jharkhand on Monday, taking the total number of the novel coronavirus cases to 24, of which are 22 active cases, while two have died. Among the five, three are from Ranchi’s Hindpiri area and one each from Bokaro and Giridih districts. Official sources said all the five came in contact with patients who tested positive in the last one week. State health secretary Nitin Madan Kulkarni said: “We have detected five more patients with Covid-19. Three are from Ranchi and one each from Bokaro and Giridih.” The three patients from Hindpiri are aged between 35 and 45 and two of them had direct contact with a cleric with links to a Tablighi Jamaat group and one of them had a direct contact with 60 year old man from same area who passed away on Saturday morning at RIMS. In Bokaro, the 27-year-old man who tested positive is the fourth member of a family from Sadam village in Gomia block to be diagnosed with the disease. “The patient is nephew of the 75-year-old man who died last Thursday. His samples were collected on Saturday after he was traced during our contact history exercise,” said Bokaro DC Mukesh Kumar. In Giridih, a 55-year-old woman from Jahnadih village in Dhanwar block tested positive for Covid-19. Her son had tested positive two days ago, said Giridih DC Rahul Sinha.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jamshedpur/5-more-covid-19-cases-in-jharkhand/articleshow/75135197.cms||Gaurav Pandey
April 14, 2020||Ranchi||Nobel laureate’s foundation to provide ration to 2,000 families in Koderma, Giridih||RANCHI: The Kailash Satyarthi Children’s Foundation (KSCF) on Monday announced that it will provide packets of ration to 2,000 families across Giridih and Koderma districts as part of its relief work during the ongoing lockdown. In a statement, the foundation said its distribution programme will begin sometime next week in the two districts. Headed by Nobel laureate Kailash Satyarthi, KSCF runs its flagship Bal Mitra Gram (BMG) programme in these districts. The BMG works to curb child labour, enrol the child labourers in schools and to empower women and youths through community participation. The KSCF statement said, “In the first phase, 2,000 families in Koderma and Giridih and 1,000 families in Bihar’s Nawada district will be provided dry ration.” The statement further said their targeted beneficiary families will be given 7kg rice, 3kg wheat flour, 2kg pulses, 1kg mustard oil, 1kg soyabean, 1kg salt, spices, soaps and detergent powders. The drive will also cover 135 families from the Birhor community, it said. The statement further said that the foundation’s functionaries have distributed 500 hand-stitched masks among residents of two blocks of Giridih district. “Through the BMG, over 42,000 children in Jharkhand are being monitored during the lockdown. With support of the legislators, help has been extended to around 332 migrant labourers stuck outside the state,” it added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/nobel-laureates-foundation-to-provide-ration-to-2k-families-in-koderma-giridih/articleshow/75129688.cms||---
April 14, 2020||Ranchi||Hindpiri man’s body buried after 18 hours amid protests||RANCHI: The body of 60-year-old man, who became second casualty of Covid-19 in the state, was buried in the neighbourhood he lived early on Monday, 18 hours after he died. The body of the man from Hindpiri area, the epicentre of the Covid-19 outbreak in the state capital, was taken to two other cemeteries on Sunday, but protesting locals did not allow the burial take place. The burial finally took place around 2:30am on Monday in presence of an Islamic cleric and two sons of deceased. All those who attended were provided with protective gear before the last rites. The district administration buried him as per health department guidelines at Baccha Kabaristan in Hindpiri in the early hours of Monday. As both the sons of the deceased have also tested positive for Covid-19, they were transported from Rims in an ambulance in PPE kits and were shifted back to the hospital’s isolation after the rituals. Ranchi SDM Lokesh Mishra said, “A five-member team, including a health worker from Rims, the man’s two sons and a cleric completed the formalities at Bachha Kabristan in presence of the district administration and senior police officials. The body was buried in a 15-feet deep pit as per guidelines and a sanitisation drive was carried out in the area before and after the burial.” Sources in administration said senior officials first decided to bury the body at a GM land in Namkum area, but had to drop the idea after people living in the vicinity near Bariatu and Ratu road burial grounds protested. Meanwhile, the Ranchi district administration continued their contact-tracing exercise in the Hindpiri area to identify suspects of positive cases as the locality as emerged as epicentre of Covid-19 in Ranchi. The health workers have identified 40 persons in the area in last two days with Tablighi Jamaat links. “A total of 36 samples were sent to Rims for tests on Saturday after we started a fresh contact-tracing exercise to identify the primary as well as secondary contact of a cleric who tested positive on Friday. On Saturday, we identified four members of a family as high risk as we learnt they have been in contact with the cleric,” said ADM (law & order) Akhilesh Kumar.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/hindpiri-mans-body-buried-after-18-hours-amid-protests/articleshow/75129581.cms||Gaurav Pandey
April 14, 2020||Ranchi||Ramgarh doctors booked for Epidemic Act violation||RAMGARH: Police have filed an FIR against two private doctors in Ramgarh for allegedly manhandling a district administration’s medical team. Ramgarh SP Prabhat Kumar on Monday said, “We have lodged a case against the two doctors under various sections of IPC and Section 234 of Epidemic Diseases Act, 1897, following a written complaint by an on-duty magistrate against the two for violating social distancing norms, assaulting officials and the administration’s medical teams while the latter were doing their duties.” Both the doctors had attended to the 75-year-old resident of Gomia block in Bokaro who died on April 9 hours after testing positive for Covid-19. The two, along with five employees of their clinic, have been put under quarantine at an old-age home in the district. Last week, the district administration authorities sealed the doctors’ private clinic in Katiya village under Patratu block after learning that they came in direct contact with the coronavirus patient. Later, the two, along with their medical team, were sent to quarantine as a precautionary measure and their blood samples sent to Rims in Ranchi for Covid-19 tests. The reports are awaited.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/ramgarh-docs-booked-for-epidemic-act-violation/articleshow/75129452.cms||---
April 14, 2020||India||As stocks thin, Centre to track prices of 22 food items in 114 cities||NEW DELHI: Amid concerns over depleting stock of essential items, the Centre has decided to track the prices of 22 essential food items in 114 cities and other centres more closely and step in where cost goes up by over 15%. Though the Centre does not have the power to directly act in such situations, the food and consumer affairs ministry proposes to alert states and districts concerned to respond to the situation so that consumers do not face any hardship during the lockdown when several commodities are scarce. The Centre took the step over depleting stocks of grocery with e-tailers, which may last for a month or so. It's time to mask up and stay safe: Join TOI's #MaskIndia campaignDuring a meeting with food and consumer affairs minister Ram Vilas Paswan on Monday, states pointed to increase in prices of pulses and vegetables. Paswan directed government-owned Nafed to fast-track supply of pulses to states so that distribution could start quickly. Nafed will supply 1.9 lakh tonnes of pulses per month and it has stock of about 40 lakh tonnes. Officials said to prevent traders and hoarders from making a kill during this period, the Centre has delegated full powers of the Essential Commodities Act to states to issue notifications and take action. They can later send the notifications to the consumer affairs ministry for post-facto approval. The fear of depleting food stocks prompted the home ministry to issue fresh instructions on Sunday, including permission to operate mills for processing flour, pulses and edible oil, sources said. Soon after the lockdown, ecommerce firms had told the ministry that they could meet the demand for the next three months with their stocks, if there was no panic buying. More on Covid-19Coronavirus pandemic: Complete Coverage21-day lockdown: What will stay open and what won'tHow to quarantine yourself at homeTrust the newspaper for your daily verified newsChairing a web-based interaction with state ministers and secretaries, Paswan advised them to prepare microlevel plan to ensure essential commodities were available at fair prices in all local markets. The minister also suggested that states should commence distribution of free foodgrains — five kg per month per person for the next three months — expeditiously after he was informed that only 16 states had rolled it out till Monday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/as-stocks-thin-centre-to-track-prices-of-22-food-items-in-114-cities/articleshow/75131842.cms||Dipak K Dash
April 14, 2020||Noida||16 new cases in a day, Noida sees sharpest spike; clusters a worry||NOIDA: The city’s Covid cases saw the sharpest single-day spike on Monday after a week that had pulled the graph down as 16 people tested positive. The total number of people in Noida infected with the novel coronavirus since the outbreak of the pandemic now stands at 80, the second-most in UP after Agra. Some of the new cases are linked to the Tablighi Jamaat in Nizamuddin, officials said, opening up another dimension of cluster containment for the city that had seen no cases related to the Jamaat so far. The most cases Noida had seen in a single day before this was on March 28 when nine people had tested positive. The health department attributed the surge to the bunch of reports it received late on Monday, of 250 samples earlier sent for testing. Officials said most of these patients were already in quarantine and their source of infection and secondary contacts were being traced now. All patients were shifted to Sharda Hospital and Child PGI later in the night. The city also made an addition to the recovered section as GIMS, the other Covid facility, discharged a woman patient after two reports showed she is infection-free. So far, 14 Covid patients have been discharged. Information on only four of the 16 new patients was available — an 11-year-old boy and his mother from a group housing society in Sector 62, a 17-yar-old girl from Sector Eta 1 in Greater Noida and a 25-year-oldman from Gaur City in Greater Noida West. Three of the patients are related to a Delhi resident working as a lab technician at Fortis Noida who had tested positive on April 7. The woman from Sector 62 was a roommate of the lab technician. Her son lived with relatives in the same sector, officials said. The man from Gaur City also works at Fortis. Officials said that none of the four cases was related to the Cease Fire cluster that has contributed the maximum number of cases so far in the district. The source of infection of the girl from Eta 1 is still being investigated. Some of the other patients who tested positive on Monday are related to the Case Fire chain, officials said. But no other information was immediately available. Monday’s spike came after a week in which Noida reported just six cases, following two previous weeks of 20-plus cases each that saw it become one of top 10 hotspots for Covid in India. None of the cases last week was connected to Cease Fire either. The first case in Noida was reported on March 5 and the second on March 17, following which the numbers increased every week. Weeks four and five since the first case was reported showed maximum increase in overall numbers. These two weeks also saw maximum increase in cases related to Cease Fire. Between March 23 and 29, there were 19 cases related to Cease Fire of the 24 reported cases. The following week, 20 of the 26 cases were related to the company. Officials said all primary and secondary contacts of Cease Fire employees have been traced and kept under surveillance either at the quarantine centres or at home. “While people are talking of the Bhilwara and Agra model of containment, we have also taken stringent contact sourcing and containment measures here. In the past few weeks, we have been able to trace and put under surveillance all possible primary and secondary contacts of Cease Fire employees. When necessary, we did cluster containment of about 360 people from JJ Colony to prevent any spread of infection. We are very liberal with sample collection as well now,” said Narendra Bhooshan, nodal officer for Covid-19 response in the district. However, Monday’s cases are likely to open up fresh clusters; there is already evidence of one in Sector 62 from the lab technician. Watch Covid-19: 16 coronavirus positive cases reported in Noida||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/noida/with-16-new-covid-cases-in-one-day-noida-sees-sharpest-spike/articleshow/75131333.cms||Snehil Sinha
April 14, 2020||India||Can't gag media, says SC on Jamiat plea||NEW DELHI: Observing that it cannot gag media, the Supreme Court on Monday expressed reservations in entertaining a petition filed by Jamiat Ulama-I-Hind seeking action against some in the media, who allegedly circulated fake news to communalise the Covid-19 pandemic in relation to Tablighi Markaz congregation at Nizamuddin in Delhi.  A bench headed by CJI SA Bobde agreed to examine the plea after the petitioner insisted that some in media are targeting one community and the court should take cognisance of it. The court asked Jamiat Ulama-I-Hind to implead Press Council of India in its petition so that the media regulator's opinion could be taken while hearing the case.  "List the matter after two weeks. In the meantime, petitioners are directed to implead Press Council of India as respondent in array of parties," it said in its order. In its petition, Jamiat Ulama-I-Hind alleged th at a few people in Gujarat had circulated leaflets accusing Muslims of being carriers of coronavirus to vitiate communal harmony and dent the united fight required to counter the pandemic.  The petitioner said such denigration of a community is continuing despite PM Narendra Modi, BJP chief J P Nadda and CMs of many states warning against communalisation of the Nizamuddin issue to castigate an entire community.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/cant-gag-media-says-sc-on-jamiat-plea/articleshow/75131870.cms||---
April 14, 2020||India||India raises ceasefire violations with Pak, strong demarche over civilian deaths||NEW DELHI: India has strongly raised with Pakistan the unprovoked ceasefire violations which resulted in the killing of three civilians, including a minor, along the Line of Control in Keran sector of Jammu and Kashmir on Sunday. "A strong demarche was made to the Pakistan side on the killing three innocent Indian civilians in unprovoked ceasefire violation by Pakistan forces on April 12," said an MEA source. According to Indian authorities, Pakistani troops initiated an unprovoked ceasefire violation around 5 pm on Sunday targeting civilian population. Pakistan also on Monday summoned Indian Charge d'Affaires Gaurav Ahluwalia and lodged a protest over the alleged ceasefire violation by Indian troops along the Line of Control that killed a Pakistani civilian. Islamabad claimed India had been targeting areas populated by civilians along LoC. A week ago, the Keran sector was the scene of a deadly operation in which five elite Army commandos laid down their lives while eliminating a group of infiltrating militants. There have been frequent ceasefire violations by the Pakistani side since India announced its decision to withdraw special status of Jammu and Kashmir and divide the state into separate union territories in August last year.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/india-raises-ceasefire-violations-with-pak-strong-demarche-over-civilian-deaths/articleshow/75131880.cms||---
April 14, 2020||Amritsar||Punjab: Deceased suspect's husband says got no instructions||JALANDHAR: The family of a 55-year-old woman, who died on April 9 and tested positive for coronavirus (Covid-19) three days later, have claimed that they were neither given any instructions on precautions to be taken while cremating her nor was the body wrapped in a bag. Her husband said had they been alerted, they would not have given the body a bath on reaching home and he would have cremated her with minimum presence of people around. Though the district administration has confirmed the woman died of the virus, her death is yet to be added to the state government's bulletin on Covid-19. Apart from 12 members of the family, the health department has shifted six women, including four from the neighbourhood and two maids in the household, to the isolation centre at the civil hospital here who had handled the body while giving it a bath. Their samples were also taken. "We got to the civil hospital around 8.30pm on April 8 and she died six hours later. They asked me to take away the body, but I insisted on getting her tested for coronavirus. The body was kept in mortuary and sample taken around 3pm on April 9. When I was handed over the body, I was told we could go ahead with the cremation as usual," the husband, who came to India from Dubai on March 14, said. He said he would have exposed other members of his family to the virus if he had been told to take precautions. "The body was not wrapped in a bag but in a cloth. We gave it a bath at home and then some villagers too attended the cremation," he said. Covid-19 nodal officer Dr T P Singh refuted the claims.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/amritsar/punjab-deceased-suspects-husband-says-got-no-instructions/articleshow/75143376.cms||IP Singh
April 14, 2020||India||An actor, a BEd student, retd docs join Covid army||Shikha Malhotra is used to putting on makeup, but since March 27, she’s been donning three face masks, three pairs of gloves, shoe covers and a blue safety gown to work at the Covid isolation ward at Hinduhridaysamrat Balasaheb Thackeray Trauma Care municipal hospital in Jogeshwari, Mumbai. Once the safety gear is on, she takes down notes from the sisters whose shift is ending and goes about distributing medicines to more than 50 patients housed in the isolation ward. But unlike the other sisters on duty, 25-year-old Malhotra is a nurse only by education. She’s a professional actor who is volunteering as a nurse.  “The day PM Modi announced a 21-day lockdown, I realised that I need to put my nursing training to use,” says Malhotra, who headed to 3-4 hospitals with her nursing degree from Delhi’s Vardhaman Mahavir Medical College and finally got accepted as a volunteer at HBT. “The medical superintendent was puzzled why I was insisting on joining as a volunteer at a Covid hospital when even doctors were trying to avoid it but I told her I am a nursing officer and I want to serve,” says Malhotra, who has acted as the lead in film Kanchli and as supporting actor in SRK starrer Fan.  As images of exhausted doctors and nurses do the rounds on our WhatsApp groups, there are individuals who are stepping up to help them out as medical volunteers. Some are MBBS students, others are retired doctors and some, like Malhotra, are working in other fields.  In UP’s Hardoi district, 28-year-old Pallavi Singh accompanies her mother, a staff nurse, to the local government hospital. Once there, she does anything and everything to help the staff doctors and nurses. “I have helped with first-aid, in administering fever medicine. When migrant labourers started pouring in from the cities, there was a sudden rush at the hospital and shortage of masks. So, I pitched in by making masks for the labourers. At times, I have also made tea for doctors and nurses,” says Singh, who is pursuing B.Ed from Lucknow University and spends about 8 hours every day at the hospital. She started volunteering about a week after the lockdown started and plans to continue for as long as the cases keep coming in.  Dr Abdul Azeez, a 69-year-old retired GP, has been working in Oman post-retirement. When he was about to leave Kochi to return to Oman, he got a call from the Indian Medical Association asking him if he would like to work as a telemedicine volunteer and he said yes.  He says the telemedicine team gets calls from anxious people every five to 10 minutes. “People ask how many days they should spend in quarantine? Will their family contract the infection too? Is there any medicine available against the illness? Some have fear psychosis. We recommend such patients to the mental health team. Others who call in with flu-like symptoms, we give them proper advice on what steps they should take,” he says.  Like Dr Azeez, Dr Rashid in Delhi is giving medical advice, unravelling cryptic symptoms and just reassuring people who call up that everything is going to be okay. He is volunteering with India Volunteer Network, an NGO. “By taking these calls, we are preventing people from going to hospitals and adding to the already overburdened hospital resources,” says Dr Rashid, a final year MBBS student in the city who got to know about the volunteering opportunity on social media.  Even integrated medicine specialists are doing their bit to fight Covid-19. In Bhopal, Dr Darpan Gangil has volunteered as member of the National Service Scheme and is posted at a 60-bed isolation centre in the city. “This is a difficult time for everyone and I obviously wanted to help,” says Gangil, who also goes out to distribute immunity-boosting medicines as sanctioned by the ministry of Ayush. “I also do tele- and online consultation. I hope by being a medical volunteer I am being able to reduce the workload of doctors in some small way.”  — With inputs from Sreemol TC in Kochi||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/an-actor-a-bed-student-retd-docs-join-covid-army/articleshow/75131918.cms||Shobita Dhar
April 14, 2020||Business||INS sends SOS to govt to save newspaper industry||NEW DELHI: With a deepening economic crisis owing to the coronavirus lockdown eating into advertising revenues, the Indian Newspaper Society has written to the Union government seeking urgent interventions and assistance to keep the newspaper industry afloat.  INS has repeated its demand for a two-year tax holiday and removal of all import duty on newsprint by asserting that the print industry has been hit by a "triple whammy of coronavirus, plummeting advertising and customs duty on newsprint", which has led to a "hitherto unimaginable situation" where the domestic newspaper industry stands on the brink of collapse in a very short period of time.  Following up on the many missives INS has sent to the government, the latest dispatch to information and broadcasting secretary Ravi Mittal says the newspaper industry is facing an "unprecedented crisis", exacerbated by no advertising revenue amidst the Covid-19 lockdown and compounded with heavy input costs and import duty on newsprint. "Newspapers have cut down their pages to unprecedented levels with many merging weekend supplements into main edition. Despite these measures, newspapers are losing money every single day," the INS letter to the I&B ministry said.  In the case of other essential goods like food, milk, and groceries where consumers pay in full and cover costs, INS said newspapers cover only a fraction of their cost through subscriptions and the gap is normally made up through advertisements, which have dipped drastically. "Many small and medium newspapers have already suspended publishing and other newspapers are facing serious challenges and if they collapse, it is bound to affect the domestic newsprint manufacturing industry too. Such a situation will have a ripple effect thus affecting large number of employees, their families as well as allied industries, printing presses, distribution mechanism, newspaper vendors and delivery boys," the letter said.  With these challenges in mind, INS has reiterated its request to the Union government to order a removal of 5% customs duty on newsprint, grant a two-year tax holiday for newspaper establishments and order a 50% increase in DAVP advertisement rates besides a 100% increase in budget spend for print media. INS has also asked the government to immediately settle all outstanding bills of advertising and direct state governments to follow suit.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/ins-sends-sos-to-govt-to-save-newspaper-industry/articleshow/75131922.cms||---
April 14, 2020||Shimla||Complete lockdown in 10 Himachal Pradesh hotspots||SHIMLA: To break the chain of coronavirus spread, complete lockdown has been imposed in 10 hotspots identified in Sirmour, Solan, Chamba and Una districts of Himachal Pradesh. Chief minister Jai Ram Thakur said no relaxation in curfew would be provided in hotspot areas and added that essential commodities must be provided there through home delivery system. He said plying of vehicles must also be banned in areas declared as hotspots and all public places therein sanitised. Additional chief secretary (health) R D Dhiman said hotspots have been identified in areas where positive cases were seen. Three hostspots have been identified in Una district - area around Nakdod mosque in Gagret block, area around Kutheda Khairla in Amb block and area around Chowki Maniyar village in Bangana block. Sirmour hotspots include Misharwala and Lohgarh, Solan's are Jharmajri and Nalagarh Radyali, while in Chamba these include area around Saho panchayat, area around Galaid panchayat in Tissa sub-division and area around Deur panchayat in Salooni sub-division. Songs by folk artists To spread public awareness about coronavirus and teach the importance of washing hands, social distancing and wearing masks, many folk singers of the state have come up with songs on the issue. Dev Jaspa from Lahaul-Spiti (a district which has not reported a single Covid-19 case so far) has composed a song 'Corona corona, China Wuhan aaya corona, desh videsh aaya corona, ghabrana mat ghabrana, gaj bhar duri rakhna, nahi hona tave corona' (Corona has come from China Wuhan and it has spread to different countries, one should not be afraid of it but should maintain one-metre distance). In this song, Jaspa uses Lahauli dialect to talk about the importance of washing hands and wearing masks. In Kangra, Karnail Rana's lyrics go like this - Coronavirus ne asaan mil juli ladna jaroor, apna bachao karna, rakhna sabhi to dur' (we all will fight coronavirus together, will protect ourselves by social distancing). In the song, he also urges people not to shake hands and to maintain a 3-foot distance from others, washing hands with soap and wearing masks. Another singer from Rampur, Raju Suman has composed a foot-tapping Naati song 'Bhaiyo corona dur bhagana, hatha dona sabane bhaiyo, munhe mask laana' (Brothers, we have to shoo away corona by washing hands with soaps and wearing masks). Kullu's Thakur Dass Rathi has composed a song in Hindi, while another folk singer from the district, Digamber Thakur has composed 'China te aaya corona, ghar ghar sabhi rehna' (Corona has come from China and all should stay indoors).||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/shimla/complete-lockdown-in-10-himachal-pradesh-hotspots/articleshow/75143416.cms||Anand Bodh
April 14, 2020||Pune||Vimannagar, Shivajinagar in PMC's new sealing plan||PUNE: The civic body on Monday proposed to seal 21 more areas in the city, a week after making the similar arrangement in the peth areas (from Maharshinagar to RTO) and parts of Kondhwa. Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) officials said besides entry and exit, commuting through the 21 areas would also be barred. The only exception would be those involved in emergency services. The civic administration has sent the proposal to the collector, as the district administration has to make arrangements in association with the police department to seal the new areas. Among the areas proposed to be sealed are some central parts of the city and the eastern areas, such as entire Yerawada, Ghorpadi, Shivajinagar, Vimannagar, parts of Wadgaonsheri and the entire Tadiwala Road.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/vimannagar-shivajinagar-in-pmcs-new-sealing-plan/articleshow/75135734.cms||Prasad Kulkarni
April 14, 2020||Ludhiana||Police cane, arrest 3 after Ghagga clash||PATIALA: A video of police using force against the residents of Ghagga town in Patiala district has gone viral in social media channels. The police allegedly assaulted the residents in their houses following a clash between them and some cops on April 11. Three persons have been arrested and around 25 booked over the incident. The residents of Ward No. 7 of Ghagga alleged a scuffle broke out between them and the police after a heart patient and his aged mother were assaulted by the men in khaki when they were on way to a medicine shop. Patiala senior superintendent of police (SSP) Mandeep Singh Sidhu said the residents had pelted stones at the police team, after which they were arrested. Ghagga SHO Gurdev Singh said, "We have booked over 25 residents for attacking the police team."||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/police-cane-arrest-3-after-ghagga-clash/articleshow/75143489.cms||Bharat Khanna
April 14, 2020||Mumbai||BEST service: AC mini buses now deliver food to poor||MUMBAI: BEST has turned its AC mini buses into good Samaritans. Instead of keeping them idle at depots, the buses are being used to deliver at least 80,000 food packets to the poor and those who have no means of income or possibility of getting a meal during the lockdown.  Most of the buses have their seats intact and can deliver 1,500 food packets per trip. But a few have had their seats removed so that they can carry 5,000 packets per trip. The buses can be spotted all over Mumbai. At night, they are parked outside railway stations, from where they commence their journey the following day, picking up food parcels from NGOs, local MLAs.and other do-gooders.  A slum resident said, "We are excited when we see the chhotu buses arrive near our slum (Vijay Nagar in Mulund-West). It is a saviour for us for it gets us warm meals." A BEST official said the buses were always a hit with commuters and were instrumental in the undertaking's daily ridership going up by over a lakh a few months ago. Commuters could travel by paying just Rs 6 for a comfortable AC ride in these buses, which were operating in middle class colonies as well as in upmarket areas like Nepeansea Road and Peddar Road. When the bigger buses were deployed to ferry essential workers during the lockdown, AC minis were being used to ferry foreign nationals to the airport, from where they took special flights back to their countries, sources said. The minis were also used to ferry doctors and nurses. Now they are tending to the poor.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/best-service-ac-mini-buses-now-deliver-food-to-poor/articleshow/75131929.cms||Somit Sen
April 14, 2020||Chandigarh||Chandigarh: Be flexible in raising power bills, says JERC||CHANDIGARH: City residents can also note down electricity meter readings on their own and provide the details to the UT electricity department for generation of electricity bills. The Joint Electricity Regulatory Commission (JERC), in its latest directions to all union territories including Chandigarh, has said, "The commission opines that in the present situation, while some relief has been made available to the electricity departments by Central Electricity Regulatory Commission (CERC) under the directions of the government, some respite also needs to be given to the electricity consumers who are adversely impacted by the lockdown . In order to mitigate, to some extent, the difficulties being faced by the consumers of the territories under the jurisdiction of JERC, the commission has decided that electricity departments shall have the flexibility to raise bills to their consumers". The commission also suggested options like by direct meter reading wherever possible; by provisional billing; and by encouraging the consumers to take their own meter readings. The commission also said that the electricity department can make a WhatsApp number available to the consumers to facilitate the same. The departments can also issue bills by electronic means such as email, SMS, WhatsApp etc., JERC said in its order. The JERC in its order further said that the electricity department shall encourage all sorts of digital payments without demanding the bank transaction charges from the consumer.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/chandigarh-be-flexible-in-raising-power-bills-says-jerc/articleshow/75134317.cms||Rajinder Nagarkoti
April 14, 2020||India||Like chai & gossip, paper files too were missing||NEW DELHI: Officials who returned to the finance ministry on Monday after several weeks of work from home said there were physical meetings but social distancing was the norm, especially as offices had ample space. The absence of a formal government order asking senior officers to return to offices also meant that some drivers could not come, prompting officers to drive themselves, navigating through police checkposts where cops often demanded a copy of the order or a curfew pass. But there was plenty of space in the parking lots, though Shastri Bhavan that houses ministries of human resource development, law and justice, petroleum, chemicals and fertiliser and information & broadcasting, among others, was an exception. “Cars were all over the place as so many joint secretaries and subordinates turned up,” said an officer, who had got used to seeing very few people at work while he attended during the lockdown. Although canteens were shut in many buildings, officers didn’t seem to be missing it as they relied on the electric kettle and tea bags in their rooms and homecooked lunch. Like chai and office gossip, physical files were also missing with officers opting to use the e-office since there were few peons to ferry papers to the bosses.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/like-chai-gossip-paper-files-too-were-missing/articleshow/75131932.cms||Dipak K Dash
April 14, 2020||Chandigarh||511 Bhutanese, Brits fly home from Amritsar, Chandigarh||AMRITSAR/MOHALI: Bhutan and the United Kingdom evacuated their stranded nationals in Punjab in separate flights for Paro and Heathrow from Amritsar's Guru Ram Das International Airport and Chandigarh International Airport on Monday. Amrirsar airport director Manoj Chansoria said a Drukair flight with 134 Bhutanese nationals left for Paro at 12pm. Later, British Airway's flight carrying 269 British nationals left for Heathrow at 3.39pm. On April 7, 300 NRIs from the Unites States and Canada were evacuated by their respective nations in two special flights from Amritsar. Meanwhile, a chartered plane of Drukair took off from Chandigarh International Airport for Paro with 108 Bhutanese nationals, mostly students. The evacuation plan was operationalised according to the standard operating procedures and by taking all necessary precautions for handling passengers. CISF, IAF, Immigration authorities Air India and Punjab police provided required support for smooth operation of flight. Ajay Kumar Bhardwaj, chief executive officer of Chandigarh International Airport, said, "CHIAL has been working closely with Punjab health authorities since the very beginning. As a part of it social responsibility, the Chandigarh International Airport has contributed 500 bed sheets, pillows with covers, 4,000 N-95 masks with valve, computer systems, UPS, printers with scanners, high risk PPE kits, worth Rs 12.5 lakh to the Punjab and Haryana government hospitals." He said though the airport is closed for domestic air activity, utmost care and precautions are still being take to fight coronavirus.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/511-bhutanese-brits-fly-home-from-amritsar-chandigarh/articleshow/75138839.cms||---
April 14, 2020||Amritsar||511 Bhutanese, Brits fly home from Amritsar, Chandigarh||AMRITSAR/MOHALI: Bhutan and the United Kingdom evacuated their stranded nationals in Punjab in separate flights for Paro and Heathrow from Amritsar's Guru Ram Das International Airport and Chandigarh International Airport on Monday. Amrirsar airport director Manoj Chansoria said a Drukair flight with 134 Bhutanese nationals left for Paro at 12pm. Later, British Airway's flight carrying 269 British nationals left for Heathrow at 3.39pm. On April 7, 300 NRIs from the Unites States and Canada were evacuated by their respective nations in two special flights from Amritsar. Meanwhile, a chartered plane of Drukair took off from Chandigarh International Airport for Paro with 108 Bhutanese nationals, mostly students. The evacuation plan was operationalised according to the standard operating procedures and by taking all necessary precautions for handling passengers. CISF, IAF, Immigration authorities Air India and Punjab police provided required support for smooth operation of flight. Ajay Kumar Bhardwaj, chief executive officer of Chandigarh International Airport, said, "CHIAL has been working closely with Punjab health authorities since the very beginning. As a part of it social responsibility, the Chandigarh International Airport has contributed 500 bed sheets, pillows with covers, 4,000 N-95 masks with valve, computer systems, UPS, printers with scanners, high risk PPE kits, worth Rs 12.5 lakh to the Punjab and Haryana government hospitals." He said though the airport is closed for domestic air activity, utmost care and precautions are still being take to fight coronavirus.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/amritsar/511-bhutanese-brits-fly-home-from-amritsar-chandigarh/articleshow/75138758.cms||---
April 14, 2020||Chandigarh||Chandigarh: No Haridwar trips, final goodbyes get delayed||CHANDIGARH: One of the tragic outcomes of the lockdown is how families are struggling to perform death rituals in bidding final goodbye to their loved ones. At the cremation grounds of Chandigarh, Mohali and Panchkula, ashes of the dead are piling up. The reason is that people cannot make the trip to Haridwar for 'asthi visarjan' and 'pind daan' - important Hindu rituals - owing to the ban on inter-state travel. #CoronaVirusLockdown | Ashes of the dead are piling up at the cremation ground in Sector 25, #Chandigarh . Here, th… https://t.co/v0Piou1NRf— TOIChandigarh (@TOIChandigarh) 1586851727000Dheeraj Chandan has been waiting for weeks to immerse the ashes of his younger brother who died in a road accident on March 22. "We were expecting the curfew would be lifted after April 14. But as it has been extended, we will apply for an e-pass to perform the rituals in Haridwar," said the resident of Sector 49. The ashes of his brother's body are lying at the Sector 25 cremation ground since March 23. Ashes of the dead are piling up at the cremation ground in Sector 25, Chandigarh. Dinesh Kumar has a similar story to share. He lost his cousin, a resident of Sector 39, before the announcement of the nationwide lockdown. They had planned to visit Haridwar in the last week of March. "When we contacted our priest, he told us that police are not allowing them to perform immersion at Haridwar ghats. We will now wait till the lockdown is lifted. We have kept the ashes at our house only," Kumar said. Getting heads tonsured - another ritual - is also becoming hard to perform. Manjit Ram, a resident of Mauli Jagran, said his uncle had died recently, but they could not find a barber to tonsure the head of their elder son. Finally, an elderly family member helped in removing the hair of his uncle's son. The family has kept the ashes in the cremation ground, he said. A staff posted at Sector 25 cremation ground said they permit only 20 persons to accompany the body, that too wearing masks and maintaining social distance. Vijay Kumar, 59, a priest at the Sector 25 cremation ground, said around 180 lockers are full of ashes. As there is no space left in lockers, people have now started tying ashes in bags with tree branches. Some families are even taking away the ashes to their homes, he added. The union ministry of home affairs in its recent communication to states and union territories had stated that in case of funerals, congregation of not more than twenty persons will be permitted. Initially, up to 20 people were coming, but these days only four to five people come with a body and all maintain proper social distancing during the cremation, Vijay said. Similar kind of situation is at the cremation grounds in Manimajra and Mohali.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/chandigarh-no-haridwar-trips-final-goodbyes-get-delayed/articleshow/75132310.cms||Rajinder Nagarkoti
