April 15, 2020||Amaravati||Officials to turn Kurnool city into a fortress as COVID-19 cases spike||TIRUPATI: Officials of the district administration led by district collector G Veerapandian and SP Kaginelli Fakeerappa pledged to turn the Kurnool city into a fortress by enforcing the lockdown in a more stringent way, in view of a spike in the COVID-19 cases in the city in the last few weeks. District collector G Veerapandian confirmed that eight fresh cases of the novel coronavirus were reported in the district in the last 12 hours, taking the overall number of Covid-19 cases in the district to 91 on Tuesday, which is the second highest in Andhra Pradesh. District collector told reporters, that out of the eight cases reported on Tuesday, five patients were residents of Ghani Galli in Kurnool city and three cases were reported at Budhavaripeta. ''Both the areas have been designated as high risk zones and all measures to prevent the outbreak of the novel coronavirus in the designated areas have been initiated'', he asserted. Pointing out that out of the total 91 Covid-19 positive cases reported in the district so far, 29 coronavirus cases were reported from Kurnool city alone, the district collector underlined that the district administration and the police department will enforce a more stringent lock-down in all the high risk areas as well as other parts of the city from Tuesday. ''All the people residing in high risk designated areas will have to strictly remain indoors and all kinds of entry and exit routes to the high risk zones will be cut off totally. The district administration will ensure all essential commodities including provisions, vegetables, medicines etc., are reached to the very doorstep of the people living in the high risk zones'', added district collector G Veerapandian.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/amaravati/officials-to-turn-kurnool-city-into-a-fortress-as-covid-19-cases-spike/articleshow/75149015.cms||Sandeep Raghavan
April 15, 2020||Mangaluru||Mangaluru: One more coronavirus patient gets discharged from hospital||MANGALURU: One more Covid-19 positive patient was discharged from District Wenlock Hospital in Mangaluru on Tuesday. With this, the number of active cases in the district reduced to three from 12. The 49-year-old man, who has a travel history of visiting Dubai, was discharged on Tuesday following his report tested negative for the infection. He had reached his village in Puttur taluk on March 21. He was admitted to Wenlock Hospital with symptoms on April 1 after he was tested positive for Covi-19. The patient was discharged after samples sent on April 12 and 13 tested negative. In Dakshina Kannada, no positive cases were reported in the past 10 days.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mangaluru/mangaluru-one-more-coronavirus-patient-gets-discharged-from-hospital/articleshow/75149049.cms||---
April 15, 2020||Kochi||A quick guide on how to feed stray animals in Kerala||Stray animals and birds have depended on animal welfare groups for their feed ever since the lockdown. Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan also brought attention to this, when he directed for feeders passes to be issued to volunteers. Here are resources to check out to help these volunteers. ThiruvananthapuramThe Federation of Indian Animal Protection Organisations (FIAPO) feeds more than 350 dogs, cats and birds a day in Thiruvananthapuram. "Generally, we give a mix of rice and chicken, or milk and bread. We manage the expense through public donation," says Parvathy from FIAPO (http://www.fiapo.org/fiaporg/). KochiKochi-based Dhyan Foundation and Oneness are collaborating to feed dogs, cats and birds in different parts of Kochi. "We feed them a mix of rice, dog food, egg, turmeric and veggies," says Namitha Satheesh from Oneness.(http://www.dhyanfoundation.com/feed-a-dog.php and https://www.onenessforall.in/) Ranjini Haridas and team from Humanity for Animals also feed strays in Kochi. "We source not so expensive chicken as there is no chicken waste available now for the feed. We also feed cattle, cats and birds. We manage our expenses through donations. If anybody wishes to help, they can even cook the food and connect with us, and we will collect the food," says Ranjini. ThrissurPreethi Sreevalsan from Paws in Thrissur, says, "We cook more than 20 kg of food for strays. The biggest crisis is feeding stray cattle as they basically survive on vegetable waste from markets and restaurants. They aren't used to having cattle food. We are grateful that the CM turned attention to this work.” Paws can be contacted through http://pawsthrissur.com/adopt/donation/ Simple things you can do: Subrahmanian Santakumar1. Leave bowls of water, fruits and nuts on balconies and outside the house 2. Provide food for animal volunteer groups in your locality 3. Be responsible feeders by cleaning animal containers and the area once the strays are fed. Do not feed animals junk, such as chocolates 4. Do not discard plastic garbage, so animals don't consume plastic 5. Inform your local groups about the plight of the animals through videos of CM, PM and bureaucrats A recipe that you can try Turmeric Bread 1kg maida 1kg atta 5 cups water 2-3 T turmeric 1 t cumin 35g yeast 1 T salt In a large bowl, stir yeast into the water. When it starts to bubble in 10 minutes, add turmeric, cumin, maida and atta. Stir very well to combine all the ingredients. Add any chopped vegetables, proteins etc. Cover the dough & let it rise for 2-3 hours. The dough will double in size. Transfer it to baking trays or pans and let it rest for 30 mins. Bake at 250 degrees Celsius for about 30 mins, till the bread has puffed up and is golden brown. Cool completely, cut into pieces and feed||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/a-quick-guide-on-how-to-feed-stray-animals-in-kerala/articleshow/75148621.cms||Anjana George
April 15, 2020||Allahabad||Ensure social distancing at banks, IG tells police chiefs||PRAYAGRAJ: Taking strong note of customers flouting social distancing norms at branches of various banks and at customer service centres, IG , Prayagraj range, KP Singh asked police chiefs of Prayagraj, Pratapgarh, Kaushambi and Fatehpur districts to deploy additional police pickets for compliance of social distancing norms. The IG also asked to regulate the crowd of customers at small branches, particularly at customer service centres. He said, "police of Prayagraj, Fatehpur, Kaushambi, and Pratapgarh have been asked to prepare a list of banks and its branches where crowd of customers was more as compared to other banks. Additional police pickets should be deployed in these banks to strictly enforce social distancing norms .  "At least three incidents were reported when unidentified miscreants made an abortive bid to target small branches and in view of this, the police chiefs have been directed to deploy more police forces", the IG said. Thana police have also been asked to check whether banks have installed network of CCTVs , and if not, the same should be installed at the earliest, he added. Meanwhile, a team of senior administration and police officials, including divisional commissioner of Prayagraj R Ramesh Kumar and IG K P Singh on Tuesday reviewed the arrangements and appealed to the residents of the city to follow lockdown orders till May 3.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/allahabad/ensure-social-distancing-at-banks-ig-tells-police-chiefs/articleshow/75149058.cms||Kapil Dixit
April 15, 2020||India||Corona: Govt targets 40,000 tests per day, to rope in more labs||NEW DELHI: The government plans to ramp up testing capacity to 40,000 tests per day by the end of April, say high level sources. As of Tuesday, ICMR said at the daily briefing that they are conducting 21,000 tests per day. The empowered testing committee of the government led by CK Mishra, and including Balram Bhargava (ICMR), Randeep Guleria (AIIMS), Bharat Lal (PMO), Debasree Mukherjee (ICMR), Nivedita Gupta (ICMR) and Venkateswaran (NABL) have been engaged in utilising existing capabilities as well as creating new ones to address the biggest challenge in the country’s fight against Covid-19. The idea is that if India has to get a handle on the spread of the infection, and control it, it needs to test much more. As of Tuesday, there are 244 testing labs that have been put to work on Covid-19 — of these 171 are government labs and 73 in the private sector. It's time to mask up and stay safe: Join TOI's #MaskIndia campaignThe government has empowered 14 top medical institutions across the country to create, run and monitor laboratories in their regions, thereby decentralising the decision-making power from one institute, ICMR. In fact, the principal scientific adviser K. Vijayaraghavan tweeted, “The Office of the Principal Scientific Adviser (PSA) to the Government of India has developed a “Handbook for COVID-19 testing in Research Institutions” which allows a lab to self-assess preparedness, in terms of equipment, staff, and expertise.” This protocol will be followed by these institutions. More on Covid-19Coronavirus pandemic: Complete Coverage21-day lockdown: What will stay open and what won'tHow to quarantine yourself at homeTrust the newspaper for your daily verified newsThe government also plans to utilise the labs of science institutes like IISER, working under the Department of Science and Technology and the Ministry of HRD to double up as testing labs. The National Accreditation Board for Testing and Calibration Laboratories (NABL) has been asked to fast-track the standards compliance procedure for these new labs. In addition, ICMR is educating them on incorporating the specific bio-safety protocols for Covid-19. Importing testing kits and RNA extractors from the rest of the world is the biggest challenge at present, said sources. The third crucial component, Viral Transport Medium (VTM) will be manufactured in the first production facility in Goa from Thursday this week. In the past few years, India has built up capacity for RT-PCR (reverse transmission polymerase chain reaction) tests for SARS and tuberculosis, both of which uses similar testing protocols and equipment. All of these are being commandeered to conduct testing for Covid-19. In addition, the government has also designated 15 depots to decentralise distribution of these testing kits across the country, to cut down the transport delays.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/corona-govt-targets-40000-tests-per-day-to-rope-in-more-labs/articleshow/75149011.cms||Indrani Bagchi
April 15, 2020||Goa||With Pro licence, Clifford may listen to I-League clubs||Panaji: Former international Clifford Miranda has completes the AFC Pro Diploma coaching course and is now raring to take things into his own hands. From among 21 participants, only four completed the course under the umbrella of the Uzbekistan Football Association (UFA). The FC Goa developmental team coach was the only Indian who passed out in flying colours. The module started in November 2018 and concluded last month. Miranda joins an elite list of 15 Pro License holders in India which includes four other Goans -- Savio Medeira, Derrick Pereira, Mariano Dias and Francisco da Costa. “For me it is very important as I wanted to complete my coaching licenses. Coaching is a process and it is never ending, but for me to get the right licenses and coaching without interruption was very important,” Miranda told TOI. After ending his professional playing career in 2017, Miranda followed his Derrick to FC Goa. The former Dempo SC winger has come a long way since then, and in just his second year into coaching, won the Goa Professional League with FC Goa's developmental team. This season he served as an assistant to FC Goa head coach Sergio Lobera and was named the interim coach after the Spaniard was shown the door by the club before the last three league matches of the Indian Super League. With technical director Derrick always available on hand, Miranda proved his worth once again and helped FC Goa top the league stages and become the first club from the country to earn a place in the AFC Champions League. He didn’t try to shake things around and let the players play their natural game. Miranda's contract expires in June and he is already getting inquiries from I-League sides. The ISL also allows Indian coaches with Pro License to take charge of the team next season, but Miranda is in no hurry. "A few of them (I-League clubs) are interested but I want to see what FC Goa is doing. They gave me an opportunity and helped me grow, so I always want to hear what they say first and then take a decision," said Miranda. A head coach’s role at a well set-up I-League club will be Miranda’s ideal choice where he could work with the team and, in some years, battle for a promotion to the ISL. In the current lockdown situation due to the coronavirus pandemic, Miranda is making best use of his time to prepare for next season. “I’m anticipating I will get a club, or wherever I go, I am preparing how my team can play. I am documenting everything that is going on in my mind right now,” said Miranda.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/with-pro-licence-clifford-may-listen-to-i-league-clubs/articleshow/75149297.cms||FLAVIO LOPES
April 15, 2020||India||Paswan instructs withdrawal of ministry's controversial order to end internal feud||NEW DELHI: Union minister Ram Vilas Paswan intervened on Tuesday to end an internal crisis within the consumer affairs ministry by ordering withdrawal of a controversial office order which had asked all officers and staff to give in writing if they were unwilling to continue in the department. The ministry claimed that the circular was issued to find out who were unable to come for emergency duties during the lockdown due to medical conditions or any other valid reason. However, TOI has learnt that a crisis had been brewing in the department for past few days. There were some serious issues between a senior official and many of the subordinates. This had triggered issuing of the controversial letter to all staff on Monday. It was sent to all officers through official mail and they were asked to respond by April 20. Sources said some of the officers had responded saying they wanted to go back for posting in any other department. On Tuesday evening, Paswan took to social media to make the point that he had instructed consumer affairs secretary Pawan Agarwal to withdraw the office memorandum and issue clarification. “Offices shall continue to function as per MHA (Ministry of Home Affairs) and DoPT (Department of Personnel and Training) orders during lockdown,” the minister tweeted. I have come to know about this Office Memorandum of Department of Consumer Affairs. Secretary, DoCA has been instru… https://t.co/b5rIEWJQ6t— Ram Vilas Paswan (@irvpaswan) 1586872385000Refuting the ministry's claim, an officer said, “Almost all senior officers had been attending office, holding meetings and attending conferences even during the entire first phase of lockdown. This is a matter of record and can be verified. Since we all know the importance and responsibility of our ministry to ensure essential commodities are made available to people at this hour of crisis. We have been coming to office all these days." However, the ministry in a statement said, "In view of the ambiguity in the language of the OM, this is withdrawn forthwith. The department would compile such information and use it while drawing up roster duty of officers/ staff during the lockdown period so that none is put to any hardship, while work of the department is carried out smoothly."||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/paswan-instructs-withdrawal-of-ministrys-controversial-order-to-end-internal-feud/articleshow/75149324.cms||Dipak K Dash
April 15, 2020||Delhi||Restaurants, delivery staff ensure hygiene amid the corona pandemic||Most restaurants in the city that are open for home delivery have put in place strict hygiene procedures to ensure safety of staff and customers. From mandatory temperature check for staff to sanitising the kitchen every two hours, here’s a lowdown on what they are doing: Mandatory temperature check, handwashing, regular sanitisation of kitchenOnly a limited number of staff members are working at a time and inside the kitchen, they maintain a distance of at least 6ft from each other. Temperature check is also mandatory. "Our chefs have been staying in our premises since the lockdown began so that they don’t have to travel. They also do not have any contact with the delivery guys – the food is handed over by the chefs to the in-house staff, who then give it to the delivery boys," informs Rohit Arora of The Park in central Delhi. Sumit Gulati, a director of Spice Market in Saket, adds, "We do temperature checks before the staff enters the kitchen. They are provided with sanitised gloves, caps, masks and they are changed every few hours throughout the day. The staff has been instructed to wash hands every 20 minutes and use hand sanitisers." From door knobs to stove surfaces and counters, everything is sanitised with disinfectant every few hours in most kitchens. Mahabelly in Saket recently shut its kitchen because "it was becoming difficult to make sure that the deliveries we were getting from third party were safe," says Thomas Fenn of Mahabelly. No-contact deliveryBe it food delivered through aggregators or by restaurant staff, contactless delivery is a must. Domino's Pizza says that restaurants, delivery bikes, boxes and hot bags are being sanitised every four hours. Most outlets have also stopped cash transactions. "We will continue our focus on contactless delivery, digital payments, sanitisation of delivery bags before every delivery and in providing tamper proof seal on every bag. Our delivery experts are trained in contactless delivery," says Vishal Jindal, director, Biryani By Kilo. A spokesperson from Swiggy adds, "Our delivery partners are being trained in WHO’s recommended practices. We are encouraging restaurant partners to implement strict safety guidelines like mandatory temperature checks for staff and delivery partners, sanitisation of kitchen space every four hours, use of masks, additional packaging for cooked food and provision of handwashing stations at pickup points." Maintaining safety in kitchen- Sanitisation of kitchen counters and utensils every few hours - Ingredients (like vegetables, etc) washed twice with warm water - Handwashing and sanitisation stations for kitchen staff - Gloves, mask and caps mandatory for kitchen staff - Food packed inside the kitchen in sealed containers. Containers are placed in double bags before being handed to delivery boys - No delivery person allowed inside the kitchen Rules followed for delivery- All delivery staff undergo a mandatory health screening and wear masks - Mandatory 20-second handwashing and sanitisation every hour - All delivery bikes, delivery bike boxes and hot bags sanitised every four hours - Offering zero-contact delivery and stopping cash payment||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/restaurants-delivery-staff-ensure-hygiene-amid-the-corona-pandemic/articleshow/75146089.cms||Divya Kaushik
April 15, 2020||India||Private sector drafted but Covid-19 battle rests heavily on govt hospitals||While several state governments have made dramatic announcements about taking over private hospitals to fight Covid-19, it is clearly the public health system that is primarily tackling the epidemic, from identifying and tracking suspected cases to testing and treatment. What’s more, these services have been provided free to all without questions about insurance coverage or income certificates. Barring Madhya Pradesh, where private medical colleges and hospitals in Bhopal and Indore have more cases than government facilities, in most states that identified private hospitals to treat Covid-19 cases, barely a handful of patients have used them. In the last week of March, there was a spate of announcements, starting with the Bhilwara administration announcing the takeover of five private hospitals as the district reeled from a surge in Covid-19 cases. States announcing takeovers included Rajasthan, UP, Andhra Pradesh and Chhattisgarh. Others like Telangana, Bihar, Kerala, Tamil Nadu, West Bengal and Karnataka have depended almost entirely on government hospitals. The Tamil Nadu government identified 110 private hospitals where patients could seek treatment for Covid-19, but of the 1,173 cases so far, barely 20 have opted for the private sector. In Karnataka, out of 250 cases, just over 30 have been treated in the private sector. It's time to mask up and stay safe: Join TOI's #MaskIndia campaignThe record of private hospitals in dealing with Covid-19 has been patchy, with health workers getting infected and the hospitals themselves becoming hotspots. In Karnataka, two private hospitals, one in Davanagere and another in Bengaluru, had to be temporarily shut down after several among the staff were infected after treating a Covid patient. Similarly, in Mumbai, two private hospitals became hotspots after dozens of their health workers got infected. Within nine days of taking over Raipur Institute of Medical Sciences, a private hospital, the Chhattisgarh government had to roll back the decision due to insufficient infrastructure and medical facilities. Instead, the largest hospital in the state, Ambedkar Hospitals, became a dedicated Covid hospital to supplement AIIMS Raipur and district hospitals. Out of 2,300 plus cases in Maharashtra, more than 1,700 are in Mumbai. Of these about 400 are being treated in Seven Hills, a private hospital that had been shut down. The Bombay Municipal Corporation opened up the hospital and is paying for those treated in Seven Hills, but the ICU is managed by staff from HN Reliance Foundation Hospital. Pune, which along with Mumbai accounts for most cases in Maharashtra, also has the bulk of its patients in government hospitals. More on Covid-19Coronavirus pandemic: Complete Coverage21-day lockdown: What will stay open and what won'tHow to quarantine yourself at homeTrust the newspaper for your daily verified newsMadhya Pradesh is an exception with most patients in private hospitals. These include Chirayu Medical College hospital in Bhopal, and Index Medical College, Sri Aurobindo Institute of Medical Sciences, Bombay Hospital and Vishesh Hospital in Indore. The government has announced that it will pay for these patients, but details such as whether it will be payment per patient or monthly charges for the use of the whole facility have not been worked out. The UP government, too, has said it will rope in the private sector and is in talks with a few corporate hospitals. However, here too the terms have still not been worked out and all patients are being treated in government hospitals so far. Almost all states have identified private hospitals that might need to be requisitioned if the situation worsens and many have been advised to keep 10-25 beds for isolation facilities. However, so far, the weight of the fight against Covid-19 is almost entirely on public health facilities and staff.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/private-sector-drafted-but-covid-19-battle-rests-heavily-on-govt-hospitals/articleshow/75149897.cms||Rema Nagarajan
April 15, 2020||India||Just 2% of Covid-19 patients have filed insurance claims||BENGALURU: India has over 10,000 Covid-19 positive cases and government hospitals are taking care of bulk of the treatment, with private players and, consequently, health insurance playing a smaller role so far. Sources, including National Health Authority (NHA) officials, said that around 10% of cases are undergoing treatment in private hospitals. “The reason that most of the cases are being treated at government hospitals could be because state governments are actively tracking, testing and ensuring treatment for the positive cases. There is, however, a small number of people who opting for private healthcare,” said a top NHA official. And the cases where treatments are covered under health insurance are fewer — just 2% of total cases in India. As of Monday, General Insurance Council (GIC) reported about 200 Covid-19 claims to the Finance Ministry against 10,586 total cases. It's time to mask up and stay safe: Join TOI's #MaskIndia campaignPrivate hospitals’ networks like Private Hospitals & Nursing Homes Association (PHANA), said that no uniform treatment protocol has been agreed upon and if AIIMS or the state governments come up with recommendations, they will likely follow the same. AIIMS set up a task force last week to set up a uniform protocol for hospital treatment of Covid-19. Even insurance companies, via GIC, have sent suggestions to Insurance Regulatory and Development Authority of India (IRDAI) and the finance ministry, asking that hospitals follow a set procedure for treatment of Covid-19 cases so that rack rates can be agreed upon. More on Covid-19Coronavirus pandemic: Complete Coverage21-day lockdown: What will stay open and what won'tHow to quarantine yourself at homeTrust the newspaper for your daily verified newsRight now, treatment for Covid-19 cases at private hospital treatment costs anywhere between Rs 4.5 to Rs 10 lakh. “We have given our recommendations, but we have received no update. The number of cases is still too low for us to be worried,” said a CMD of a general insurance company. When asked about patients being affected by artificial inflation of bills by private hospitals said insurers the CMD said, “If the hospital is not a partner, then there could be issues at the time of reimbursement”. Insurers have agreed that adding costs to the final bill will be testing. “The cost is about Rs 4,500 per test and one must remember this isn’t a one-time cost. The patient gets tested every two days till the tests indicate a negative result,” said CEO of a private insurance firm.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/just-2-of-covid-19-patients-have-filed-insurance-claims/articleshow/75149973.cms||Rachel Chitra
April 15, 2020||India||Congress attacks Modi, says woes of migrant workers not addressed||NEW DELHI: Taking exception to the Prime Minister’s address to the nation, Congress Tuesday lamented that Narendra Modi spoke in detail about what he expects from the people but chose silence on what the government was doing for citizens, especially about migrant workers, mass testing, job security and food distress. It alleged the government has dropped the issue of livelihoods of the poor from its priority list. In a video message, Congress president Sonia Gandhi thanked the people for leading the fight against corona despite shortages and difficulties, calling it a high act of patriotism. Addressing a press conference, Congress spokesman Manish Tewari said, “The PM did not talk about the most horrifying images that emerged during lockdown- migrant workers marching to their homes. They were quarantined at the borders and have completed their mandatory quarantine period. Will travel to their homes be facilitated by the government?” It's time to mask up and stay safe: Join TOI's #MaskIndia campaignHe said jobs for most vulnerable sections was a key issue and the problem was evident from the fact that MGNREGA jobs in April have come down to 1% of March. “Would the government give full wages to people who have active job cards under the scheme, which is essential for them to keep their body and soul together,” he asked. He also asked about the action on Congress suggestion that free ration be distributed to the poor till September. Tewari slammed retrenchment of workers in various industries which he said was against the directives of labour ministry and the PM’s own comments. He said mass testing and protective gear for health workers were key issues in the coming stage of fight against coronavirus and the PM should have spoken about the strategy on this front. Congress regretted the Centre was still silent on the harvesting of standing rabi crop and its procurement procedures, and on how it proposed to restore the supply chain which has choked. More on Covid-19Coronavirus pandemic: Complete Coverage21-day lockdown: What will stay open and what won'tHow to quarantine yourself at homeTrust the newspaper for your daily verified newsAsked if the PM’s speech was about taking credit for the fight against coronavirus, Tewari said, “Was such a speech appropriate in the present situation? There will be a time for dissection of this speech. But at present, we don’t want to rake up these questions.” टेस्ट किट ख़रीद में देरी की गयी,अब देश में इसकी भयंकर कमी है।हर 10 लाख देशवासियों के लिए मात्र 149 टेस्ट उपलब्ध हैं… https://t.co/PzMx6Kdqi1— Rahul Gandhi (@RahulGandhi) 1586867434000Rahul Gandhi tweeted, “India delayed the purchase of testing kits & is now critically short of them. With just 149 tests per million Indians, we are now in the company of Laos (157), Niger (182) & Honduras (162). Mass testing is the key to fighting the virus. At present, we are nowhere in the game.” Watch PM Modi's address 'low on specifics, high on rhetoric': Congress||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/congress-attacks-modi-says-woes-of-migrant-workers-not-addressed/articleshow/75149989.cms||---
April 15, 2020||Business||Apparel makers push WFH dressing||Chennai: As working from home is catching up, apparel and lifestyle companies are clinging on by launching their own work from home line-up. With the fine line between work and home disappearing, companies including Myntra, Lifestyle and Peter England are showcasing a mix of formal and casual workwear online, as a new work-from-home style statement. The collections pair a formal top wear with a more casual bottomwear. These companies — whose sales have come to a halt since as shipments of non-essential categories are stopped — are hopeful of seeing a pickup in the new vertical once the lockdown lifts. Some apparel retailers have tweaked their spring and summer collection to incorporate the new trend. Flipkart-owned Myntra has its range of work-from-home attire where — curated styles for conference calls are available and some of them feature from the spring and summer collection of the brands. “The overall theme and focus has been, ‘comfort, while at work’ and we expect this to trend to gain more traction as more organizations and individuals adapt to a work from home culture,” said spokesperson from Myntra. While these retailers are not servicing orders, they are communicating the work from home style to the customers on social media and through in-app notifications.Workwear startup Fablestreet is tweaking its collection to have an anti-stain or an anti-wrinkle quality to launch clothing that can be worn for longer hours without causing any discomfort. “We are introducing these functional elements since we believe this is a habit that will catch on. In the longer run, we will also have a sustainable collection where the same piece can be worn for a longer duration but still look fresh and fashionable,” said Ayushi Gidwani, founder, Fablestreet.Lifestyle has a work from home collection across categories with prices ranging from Rs 599 to Rs 2,500 (on an average). Besides, apparel, they also have make up and fashion accessories. Through their work-from-home journal on the website and social media, they are showcasing their collection, predominantly in linen. “The work from home collection is all about utility as well as versatility. The collection gives customers the freedom to choose across casualwear, activewear, loungewear, contemporary ethnicwear and everyday essentials. We believe that in the post Covid-19 era, “work-from-home” will be more accepted and widely practiced and are positive about this collection,” said Vasanth Kumar – MD, Lifestyle International Pvt. Ltd.Menswear Peter England is letting customers browse through their collection which gives a formal yet comfortable collection in a pop up on their website. “This opportunity is quite nascent and still emerging. Consumers may look for multi-purpose clothing that they may toggle between WFH and office. We have plans to come up with a collection that’s more versatile, designed and marketed for Work For Home,” said Manish Singhai, COO, Peter England and head – E-commerce.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/apparel-makers-push-wfh-dressing/articleshow/75148593.cms||Aparna Desikan
April 15, 2020||Rajkot||Third death in Bhavnagar, two recover||Rajkot: Bhavnagar registered its third death due to coronavirus with a 50-year-old man succumbing to the infection in Sir T Hospital on Tuesday. According to official sources, the victim Ashraf Harun, who was under treatment since March 28, also had co-morbid condition including diabetes. He was on oxygen support since admission, but shifted on ventilator on Monday after his health deteriorated. Harun was a resident of Bhilwara circle.Few hours before he died, Harun released a video message exhorting people to remain inside their homes to protect themselves from the deadly virus and describing his suffering and pain.Meanwhile, three other persons tested positive since Monday night while two recovered and were discharged. In all, there are 26 positive cases in the city of which three died.A 20-year-old man from Shihor tested positive on Monday late night. V J Baranwal, district development officer (DDO), Bhavnagar said, “This person had attended the gathering at Nagarwada in Vadodara along other nine persons. Nine others have tested negative.” Two other men - an 18 year old and a 25 year old man were found infected in Bhavnagar on Tuesday. The 18 year old man had returned from Ajmer two weeks ago. He was kept in government quarantine facility for 14 days as per norms and his samples were sent for tests on 12th day. However, his his family has tested negative. The 25-year-old is from Sandhiyawad, which is under cluster quarantine.Also, 65-year-old Usman Multani who was admitted on March 29 and Shabnam Multani, 29, who was admitted on April 7, have fully recovered and discharged from Sir T Hospital. “These two patients were motivated by the medical team during their isolation so that they remain mentally strong,” district administration said in a release.Beginning Wednesday, Bhavnagar Municipal Corporation has made it mandatory to wear masks. According to notification issued by the civic body, people may use homemade mask or handkerchief to cover the face. Fist-time offenders will be fined Rs 500 and thereafter Rs 2,000.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/third-death-in-bhavnagar-two-recover/articleshow/75148681.cms||---
April 15, 2020||Patna||Customs superintendent sent to jail for thrashing cop in Patna||PATNA: A local court on Tuesday remanded a customs department superintendent in judicial custody for thrashing an assistant sub-inspector of traffic police near Kurji Mor under the Patliputra police station area in the city amid lockdown on Monday. The superintendent was identified as Akhilesh Kumar, who was posted at customs headquarters near Income-Tax roundabout here. Kumar was arrested on Monday soon after the incident. He was produced in a city court Tuesday which remanded him in judicial custody. SHO of Patliputra police station S K Shahi said a traffic police team was checking vehicles near Kurji Mor and stopped a man, Sachin Kumar, for riding bike without helmet. “Sachin had no vehicle document either. When the cops asked him to pay fine, he rang up Akhilesh, who reached the spot in no time and started pressuring ASI Ramanand Patel to release the bike without realising fine. After an altercation, Akhilesh thrashed the ASI. While Sachin managed to flee, Akhilesh was arrested,” the SHO said. He added that an FIR was registered against Akhilesh under sections 188 (disobedience to order promulgated by public servant), 323 (punishment for voluntarily causing hurt), 341 (punishment for wrongful restraint) and 353 (assault or criminal force to deter public servant from discharge of his duty) of Indian Penal Code.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/customs-supdt-sent-to-jail-for-thrashing-cop/articleshow/75147225.cms||---
April 15, 2020||Patna||Nothing more vital than people’s safety: Parties||PATNA: All political parties in the state have supported the Centre’s decision to extend lockdown in the country till May 3 to prevent spread of coronavirus. The parties, however, are afraid that the lockdown would hamper their preparations for the assembly elections slated to be held in October-November this year. The political parties, including ruling BJP, JD(U) and LJP as well as opposition RJD and Congress had either postponed or cancelled all their activities in the run up to the polls after the announcement of lockdown on March 24. LJP chief Chirag Paswan’s ‘Bihar First, Bihari First’ mega rally was also postponed. “Chirag ji had started the yatra on February 20 and visited several districts. However, the yatra had to be stopped midway owing to the pandemic and consequent lockdown,” an LJP functionary said. Most parties are ruing brake on their membership drives, which could have improved their poll performance. RJD spokesperson Mrityunjay Tiwari said the lockdown has completely stalled party’s poll preparations. “We had to cancel our two-day training camp in Rajgir in March owing to Covid-19. We are keeping our fingers crossed as far as RJD’s proposed mega rally at Gandhi Maidan in Patna on June 11 to mark the birthday of party president Lalu Prasad is concerned,” he said. Bihar Congress’s working president Kaukab Quadri said the party was unable to undertake its district outreach programme. “A strategy was formed to reach out to electorate across the state and expose the failures of the central and state governments in executing welfare, education and healthcare schemes. However, we are unable to execute it for the time being owing to the lockdown,” he said. Meanwhile, RLSP chief Upendra Kushwaha welcomed the extension of lockdown. “We support the extension of the lockdown. People should adhere to whatever the PM has said. All seven instructions given by the PM should be taken seriously,” Kushwaha tweeted.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/nothing-more-vital-than-peoples-safety-parties/articleshow/75147195.cms||Piyush Tripathi
April 15, 2020||Business||Mobile apps' usage spikes in lockdown||BENGALURU: As India entered lockdown mode due to Covid-19 in March, more and more people logged into smartphone applications for everything, ranging from video-calls to studies to gaming and even shopping. New modes to communicate like Houseparty and Zoom saw the biggest spikes in fresh user installs, given their small base. But established large social media platforms like TikTok and mobile game PUBG also witnessed a 50-80% increase in active users between February and March, according to data from US-based analytics platform SimilarWeb shared with TOI. Interestingly, online shopping applications like Flipkart, Amazon India and Myntra have seen a 40-50% spike in activity even as business crashed in March as more consumers trapped at home browsed these applications to source essentials, but were disappointed. Take for instance Delhi-based Anshul Kumar, who runs a small firm selling workwear for restaurants and hotels. “I am a tech-savvy person working on the latest design software, and yet I wasn’t aware of Zoom until recently when a friend mentioned it in our WhatsApp group for a video call. I have also told my mother about it. She is now using it with her friends for virtual pooja sessions,” said the 35-year-old Kumar. Monthly downloads of video-calling application Zoom, which is also being used by schools to conduct classes, have increased 17 fold from 500,000 in February to over 8.7 million in March. Similarly, Houseparty, which is being used friends and family to play games and talk to each other, has seen the number of monthly active users (MAUs) increase about 16 times to 328,000 in the same period. The average time being spent increasing eightfold to 24 minutes, indicating that it is being used multiple times. Gaming and entertainment applications are not far behind, as everyone has more time on their hands. PUBG — the last man standing in the blockbuster game — has seen MAUs increase by 80% to nearly 19 million. Casual games like Ludo King and Carrom, which many are playing with their families and friends while staying at home, have also increased by 50-75%. Additionally, these games are seeing a more significant increase in downloads as well, indicating that they are getting a lot more new users. Video streaming platform MX Player, which is owned by the publishers of this newspaper, saw a spike of 35% in MAUs. With all schools conducting classes online, many expect the lockdown to achieve what demonetisation did for digital payments. All startups in the space, including Byju’s, Toppr and Vedantu, have announced free classes for users, resulting in record fresh sign-ups. Unacademy, an ed-tech startup backed by Facebook, said students spent a record 1 billion minutes on its platform in March with growth ramping up further in April. “We saw a significant increase in daily active users to around 500,000 per day, an increase in viewers per week for the Free Live Classes by 150%. We also saw a 110% increase in new subscribers, leading to over 1.5 million learners on the platform, since the beginning of March,” said CEO Gaurav Munjal. Even the online retail sector, which TOI reported on March 30 is expected to take a $1-billion hit in sales due to the lockdown, are seeing increased user engagement by focusing on just essentials like grocery and infection-control items. But business remains a fraction of the usual size as consumers are searching more for electronics, which accounts for the majority of the online retail business in India. According to data sourced from the leading online retailer keyword search trends, consumers over the last week (April 4-11 vs March 23-30) are searching for mobiles more than Maggi. While the volume of searches has increased for mobiles and laptops, there is a rise in search for trimmers, earphones, fashion, electronics, books, personal care, and sexual wellness products. Even after lockdown, industry experts feel that social distancing will remain a longer-term phenomenon that could increase the adoption of these applications by both new and existing users. “The whole digital adoption of services by consumers has been a secular trend for the last 5 years. But the lockdown is going to make a step-change and significantly accelerate the trend by 3-5 years,” said Nimisha Jain, MD at Boston Consulting Group and in charge of consumer insights centre. Besides bringing new consumers to internet commerce, the lockdown will also increase the overall online shopping base, pegged at about 100 million, in addition to encouraging existing shoppers to buy more, including in new categories. Some of these changes may appear small, but they are likely to be significant for some startups. For instance, Grofers said last week online grocery could reach 0.5% of the overall $800-billion retail market after the crisis from 0.2%, which would mean doubling of the industry segment even along with the grim outlook for the economy. Take for instance Asmita Gupta, a teacher in Delhi, who installed two new grocery apps to get essentials at her doorstep as the lockdown was imposed. She said she has got essentials from Bigbasket two-three times already while she gets the breakfast essentials like milk, bread and eggs from Bigbasket’s daily morning delivery platform BBDaily. “I used to largely get my grocery offline by calling the neighbourhood stores. Since the lockdown, I have tried not to go out. I tried Amazon also but they did not have enough stock,” Gupta said, who ends up checking these apps twice or thrice daily before placing the orders.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/mobile-apps-usage-spikes-in-lockdown/articleshow/75148768.cms||Madhav Chanchani
April 15, 2020||Patna||Doctors hail lockdown extension, economists sceptical||PATNA: The extension of lockdown by 19 days, as announced by PM Narendra Modi on Tuesday, has evoked a mixed response from people in the city. While doctors have given thumbs up to the move with an appeal to the government to increase testing for Covid-19, economists and industrialists have raised concerns over its impact on the economy of the state. Ajay Kumar, vice-president of Bihar chapter of Indian Medical Association (IMA), said the extension of lockdown was the only way to save the country from the pandemic. “The lockdown might affect the poor and the economy, but nothing is more precious than our lives and the government understands this very well,” Kumar said, adding the extended lockdown period should be used for conducting aggressive testing for Covid-19. Industry bodies, however, raised concern over the extension of the lockdown. Bihar Industries Association (BIA) president Ram Lal Khaitan said, “I agree that there is no other way to combat the current crisis except lockdown, but its impact on the country’s economy can be catastrophic. How can businessmen give salaries to their employees when their businesses are totally shut? There are other expenses like house rent and electricity bills which the people are supposed to pay without any income,” he said. Chartered accountant Subodh K Goel said the government should have extended the lockdown in a staggered manner. “Economic activities should have been partially resumed,” he added. Shaibal Gupta, member secretary of Patna-based Asian Development Research Institute (ADRI), said the country’s economy was in a very bad shape even before the lockdown. “Bihar is less unaffected as it is not much integrated with national and international economies. However, the extension of lockdown during the Rabi crop harvesting season is not good for agro-based economy of Bihar,” Gupta added. D M Diwakar, a social scientist and professor of economics at A N Sinha Institute of Social Studies, said the extended lockdown would lead to largescale unemployment, primarily in the informal or unorganized sector. “Lakhs of migrant workers have returned to Bihar and many are still stranded in other states without any income. All these people are practically jobless now and will find it difficult to get job for quite some time even after the lockdown ends,” he said. Food processing units to resume operations: Industries minister Shyam Rajak on Tuesday said 193 food processing units and four cement factories have been allowed to resume operations in the state with riders. “These industrial units have been asked to keep their workers on their premises, give them food and lodging facilities and ensure social distancing and sanitization norms,” Rajak said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/doctors-hail-lockdown-extension-economists-sceptical/articleshow/75147111.cms||Archi Rani
April 15, 2020||Rajkot||Dozen booked for rioting in Bhavnagar||RAJKOT: A dozen people were booked for rioting and the alleged violation of the lockdown order after they attacked a 45-year-old man in Kharakuva locality of Bhavnagar on Tuesday. The accused attacked Vijay Pujara with bats and a screw driver. “All the accused were members of a same family. Allegedly led by Imran Radhanpuri, Naseer Bazigar, Wais Pathan and Sohrab Pathan, the accused attacked Pujara as they were angry with him for lodging a police complaint against their family members — Fardeen and Junaid,” said D G Patel, inspector with Ganga Jaliya police station. Pujara had lodged a complaint against Fardeen and Junaid after they had a fight with him. Fardeen and Junaid were hurling abuses near the house of Pujara, to which Pujara objected, triggering off the fight.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/dozen-booked-for-rioting-in-bhavnagar/articleshow/75148703.cms||---
April 15, 2020||Rajkot||Man kills infant boy in Gujarat doubting paternity||RAJKOT: Suspecting the child to have been born out of an extra-marital affair between his wife and her alleged lover, a man hacked his 20-day-old infant to death with an axe in Vikadia village in Gadhada taluka of Botad district on Monday night. The accused Kalu Nayak (35) was arrested on Tuesday. The slain infant was the seventh child of Nayak and his wife Manjula Nayak (32). “Ever since the boy was born, there used to be frequent fights between the couple. Kalu would accuse Manjula of having an affair and allege that the child was the result of her extra-marital relationship with her boyfriend,” said B L Rawal, sub-inspector with Dhasa police station. On the fateful night, Kalu picked up a fight with Manjula, alleging that the child was not his. As the altercation between the couple escalated, Kalu allegedly picked up an axe and dealt a blow on the child’s head, killing him on the spot. After this, he ran after Manjula, brandishing the axe. When Manjula ran out of her hut seeking help, her neighbour Arjun Nayak rushed to her rescue. An angry Kalu also hit Arjun with the axe on his back. Then people from the neighbourhood rushed to the spot and caught Kalu before handing him over to the police. Both Klu and Manjula worked as farm labourers.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/man-hacks-infant-to-death-claiming-he-was-not-the-father/articleshow/75148925.cms||---
April 15, 2020||Vadodara||Anand tally now 10, 50% from Khambhat||Vadodara/ Anand: With a 54-year-old man, a resident of Aling crossroads area in Khambhat testing positive on Tuesday, the coastal town, now accounts for five COVID-19 cases out of total 10 in Anand district. On Tuesday, Anand district’s total cases touched ten as the man, who has been admitted at civil hospital in Anand, tested positive. The man lives in the same area of Khambhat from where four cases have surfaced in the past. A 53-year-old woman, who had travelled to Uttar Pradesh between January 11 and February 21, was the first to test positive in Khambhat’s Aling crossroads area. Later, two of her family members including his 33-year-old son and 62-year-old husband had tested positive. Another 35-year-old man from the same locality, who had come in close contact with the woman, had also tested positive. The latest patient to test positive is admitted at civil hospital in Anand where his condition is said to be stable. He had developed fever, cough and was suffering from sore throat. Currently, of the ten patients that have tested positive, five are admitted in the isolation ward of civil hospital, Anand, while five others are admitted in the isolation ward of Shree Krishna Hospital, Karamsad. Of them, four are on oxygen support while six others are stable. None of the patient is critical or on ventilator support, officials said. Apart from Khambhat’s Aling crossroads area, three other areas in the district have been declared as cluster containment zones. So far, 218 samples have tested negative in the district. While 1,303 persons are under home quarantine, 30 have been kept under quarantine at government facility.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/anand-tally-now-10-50-from-khambhat/articleshow/75147160.cms||---
April 15, 2020||Patna||Avoid overeating, advise dietitians||PATNA: With Prime Minister Narendra Modi laying emphasis on home remedies for boosting one’s immunity in his Tuesday speech, Patnaites have started consulting dietitians to keep themselves fit amid the Covid-19 pandemic. City-based dietitian Swapan Banerjee advises people not to buy vegetables in bulk as they are meant to be eaten fresh. “Make sure that you take a balanced diet. Overeating can lead to indigestion, which in turn weakens your immune system,” he told this newspaper. Since his Kankarbagh clinic is closed due to the lockdown, Banerjee is receiving numerous calls and e-mails from people these days. “Most of them ask me for tips to lead a healthy lifestyle as people with poor immunity are more vulnerable to the virus,” he said. Another dietitian, Meghna Krishna, who runs a clinic in S K Puri, urged Patnaites to avoid chips and packaged foods because they can lead to severe digestive problems. “People should not eat oily food or anything that is not good for their gut. They should do physical activities regularly and take supplements like Vitamin C tablets,” Krishna said. Wellness coach Ravi Kant Kumar also advised people to remain healthy by taking a proper diet. A large number of people are seeking online help and asking him about supplements to increase immunity. He said, “Earlier, almost 100 people used to visit my classes. They are now consulting me online.” Meanwhile, Kadamkuan resident Kriti Singh is in constant touch with her dietitian. She said, “It is not possible to visit a doctor right now. I am, therefore, trying to use home remedies to stay healthy.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/avoid-overeating-advise-dietitians/articleshow/75147718.cms||Archi Rani
April 15, 2020||Business||Hindalco completes Aleris buy||Mumbai: Hindalco, the flagship metals company of Aditya Birla Group, has completed the purchase of US-based Aleris, becoming one of the largest aluminium companies in the world with a footprint spanning 49 factories in North America, Europe and Asia. The company had announced the acquisition of Aleris in July 2018 for $2.8 billion but could not close the transaction because of regulatory challenges in the US and Europe. To satisfy regulatory conditions, the $19-billion Hindalco has announced the sale of Aleris’ plants in Kentucky, the US and Duffel, Belgium. It will keep the remaining 13 manufacturing facilities in its portfolio. “The closure of the deal amid challenging market conditions, reflects our conviction in the Aleris business and its value to our metals portfolio,” said the conglomerate’s chairman Kumar Mangalam Birla. “Periods of turmoil have historically seen the emergence of champions...This is a long-term strategic bet, much like Novelis was in 2007.” The group has routed the Aleris acquisition through Novelis. Aleris further expands Hindalco’s aluminium product range besides giving it an entry into the aerospace market. It also insulates Hindalco from global price volatility. The acquisition will generate $150 million in synergy benefits, Hindalco said. The Indian company added that Aleris’ debt has increased since the deal announcement, due to rise in working capital to support the ramp up of operations. Of the $2.8 billion enterprise value of Aleris, $2 billion is debt.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/hindalco-completes-aleris-buy/articleshow/75148730.cms||---
April 15, 2020||Surat||Seven positive cases newly detected||Surat: The Covid-19 positive cases detected from the community sampling drive launched by the Surat Municipal Corporation (SMC) are on the rise. A total of seven new positive cases were reported from different parts of the city on Tuesday, taking the tally of the positive cases to 45.The officials of the SMC health department said that in the past 24 hours, about 13 Covid-19 positive cases had been detected from the community sampling tests of the suspected patients carried out at the SMC health centres across the city. Those who tested Covid-19 positive on Tuesday were identified as Rizwana Jakir (56) of Rander, Hussain Karim (52) of Rani Talav, Kamlesh Dhumadiya (29) of Rudarpura, Ajit Rajbanandan (25) of Pandesara, Nirmala Rana (60) of Mandarwaja Tenement, Amin Ansari (42) of Rampur and Mubarak Patel (38) of Garden Mill in Rampura. Dr Ashish Naik, deputy municipal commissioner (health and hospital), said: “We have intensified the community sampling drive in all the areas including those in the green zones. Tests on the residents suffering from any suspected symptoms are done at the health centres. We are getting a good response from the people as they are voluntarily coming forward for getting the tests done.” Dr Naik added, “All the positive patients have been shifted to the isolation ward of NCH.” Meanwhile, five patients with suspected symptoms of the virus were admitted to the NCH on Tuesday. All the patients have no travel history and that their samples have been sent for laboratory testing.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/seven-positive-cases-newly-detected/articleshow/75148638.cms||---
April 15, 2020||Surat||At least 2.91 lakh people under cluster containment in Surat||Surat: The Surat Municipal Corporation (SMC) on Tuesday included nine more clusters under the 'Red Zones' category and warned people living there to keep themselves 'home quarantined' or face legal actions under the Epidemic Disease Act-1897. With this the SMC has put total 12 clusters with population of 2.91 lakh and 61,982 houses under mandatory home quarantine. The civic body has made public the names of the societies, localities put under cluster containment zones also know as Red Zones.“SMC had already declared Rander, Begampura and Lokhat hospital under cluster containment. Now we have added more clusters in different parts of the city and the residents of these localities will have to remain inside homes or SMC will take legal actions against them,” said SMC commissioner Banchhanidhi Pani.“We have created Red Zone, Yellow Zone (Buffer zone) and Green Zone in the city to deal with the global pandemic. Total 68 teams are engaged in contact tracing of Covid-19 positive patients in Red Zones in the city. Mass testing has already begun in Surat,” added Pani. On Monday, 590 samples were taken for testing as part of the mass testing drive and their reports awaited.Pani has appealed to people to maintain social distancing and wear masks whenever they come out of their house to ensure safety of all.“Till now, 1,491 people have been penalized for not maintaining social distancing and 1,129 penalized for not wearing masks in the city in last few days. We request people to inform us about those flaunting norms so that action can be taken against them,” said Pani.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/at-least-2-91-lakh-people-under-cluster-containment-in-surat/articleshow/75148614.cms||---
April 15, 2020||Rajkot||‘Police Mitra’ to help cops enforce lockdown||Rajkot: In order to unburden the overworked police force, the Rajkot police has decided to seek help of concerned citizens. The police are in need of a helping hand after the lockdown period got extended to May 3 on Tuesday. Cops have been performing their duty tirelessly ever since the lockdown was enforced on March 23. “We have decided to form a unit of citizens under the name ‘Police Mitra.’ Each police station will have a unit consisting of 15 to 20 people. ‘Police Mitra’ will be deployed along with the cops,” said Rajkot police commissioner Manoj Agrawal in a press conference held on Tuesday. “Police Mitra members will also help the common people get essential commodities and medicines delivered at their doorsteps,” said Agrawal. “We have made wearing masks for all people on the road mandatory. A strict action will be taken against those caught on the street without passes,” Agrawal added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/police-mitra-to-help-cops-enforce-lockdown/articleshow/75148725.cms||---
April 15, 2020||Patna||Bihar: Tough to run old age homes, orphanages during lockdown||PATNA: Orphanages and shelter homes for children, senior citizens and disabled people are facing a tough time during the lockdown owing to problems in supply of essential commodities and medicines. Scarcity of helping staff has added to their woes. While people managing old age homes say they are taking extra precautions as the elderly are more prone to getting infected by Covid-19, authorities at shelter homes for disabled people say they are the worst sufferers. Few shelter homes claimed they were using funds saved for crisis situation, but that was also getting exhausted. The orphanage and a house for destitute adjacent to Padri Ki Haveli run by the sisters of Missionaries of Charity formed by Mother Teresa in 1950 is also facing problems due to the lockdown. “The most difficult thing is buying grocery and other items for the inmates. There are too many people here to look after with money from our own pockets. We are trying our best to provide all necessary items to them. But if the lockdown extends, we would be in great trouble,” said a sister in charge of the orphanage, which has 70 children and old people. Rajesh Kumar, who runs an old age home in Patliputra Colony, said the senior citizens were facing various difficulties due to the lockdown. “There are several diabetics who need proper walking and running everyday. However, due to the lockdown, they are not able to do their regular activities. Recently, we had to call for an emergency as blood sugar level of one of the inmates shot up very high,” he said. Subodh Kumar Suman, secretary of Vishesh Giri Ashram, said he is facing difficulties in getting essential commodities. “There are 59 mentally challenged and disabled inmates and around 20 employees at our shelter home. Following the social distancing norms, we asked our staff to visit the shelter home on alternate day. Scarcity of helpers is a major issue,” he said. Rakhi Sharma, the chief executive officer of a de-addiction centre and shelter home, said: “We aren’t admitting new patients due to unavailability of doctors and psychiatrists. Scarcity of staff has added to our problems in dealing with the in-house patients. We are also having problems in raising funds. As a result, the rent and other bills are due. We are just waiting for the lockdown to end as we are facing both mental and financial problems. The unavailability of basic food items and medicine has also been a big problem during this period.” Rakhi said many patients, who went back home in other districts, were finding difficulties in getting medicines. Some are even trying to shut down such centres. Awdhesh Kumar, an official at an old age home in Nageshwar Colony, said: “Since we know that elderly people are more prone to get infected, we have submitted applications for getting the old age home shut for the time being.” Meanwhile, social welfare department director Raj Kumar said the department has given funds to all District Child Protection Units (DCPU) in the state. “We are trying to provide all basic necessities to all shelter homes across the state. Funds for three months have been transferred to all DCPUs who look after shelter homes in every district. Moreover, we have decided to transfer funds for the next six months in the coming days. We are prepared to look after people at every shelter home during the crisis owing to Covid-19 pandemic,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/tough-to-run-old-age-homes-orphanages-during-lockdown/articleshow/75147232.cms||Archi Rani
April 15, 2020||Patna||Railways to refund money, airlines to reschedule flight bookings||PATNA: All passenger train and flight operations will remain suspended till May 3 as PM Narendra Modi on Tuesday announced the extension of nationwide lockdown for another 19 days to contain coronavirus spread in the country. Most travel websites were accepting flight ticket bookings from May 4 onwards. East Central Railway (ECR) announced that 274 mail, express and 389 other passenger trains originating from its Danapur, Pt Deen Dayal Upadhyay, Dhanbad, Sonepur and Samastipur divisions will remain suspended till May 3. Railways would also give full refunds of the tickets booked online till May 3. Incidentally, online booking of tickets was being done for journey from April 15 in anticipation that the 21-day lockdown will end of Tuesday midnight. ECR’s chief public relation officer (CPRO) Rajesh Kumar said railways will extend the run of special parcel van goods trains from April 15 to 25, so that essential commodities, including medicines, could reach their destinations uninterrupted during the lockdown period. Though ministry of civil aviation (MoCA) also issued a notification stating that all domestic and international flights will remain suspended till May 3, many flyers were confused owing to the extended lockdown. Arpita of Patna, who is staying at Bhavnagar in Gujarat, had her fight to Patna on Wednesday. “Although I was anticipating the lockdown extension, but have no idea whether I will get refund or will have to reschedule my booking,” she said over phone. An executive of SpiceJet said those who had booked their flights post April 14 will be allowed to reschedule their bookings for a period of one year. “A public notice has been issued this afternoon, stating that all reservations or travel till May 3 are being cancelled. Upon cancellation, the entire amount will be maintained in a credit shell and the same may be used to make fresh booking and travel till February 28, 2021 for the same passenger,” he said. An executive of IndiGo said online booking of flights for travel from May 4 onwards is available on its website.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/railways-to-refund-money-airlines-to-reschedule-flight-bookings/articleshow/75147141.cms||Kumod Verma
April 15, 2020||Surat||Surat: Affordable face shields to help frontline warriors||SURAT: A group comprising a doctor, an architect, one engineers and IT expert has developed with locally available material face shield for healthcare professionals, who are battling coronavirus amid severe shortage of the same. The group that already had distributed 1,000 kits containing face shield to doctors and laboratory technicians, gave another 60 kits to health staff of SMIMER hospital and New Civil Hospital on Monday. Prayas Team Environment played a key role in the making and distribution of the kits conceptualized by Dr Gunjan Puri, radiologist; Manish Chevli, architect; Darshan Desai, engineer; and Jignesh Patel, computer expert. The group members joined hands on realizing that there was severe shortage of face shield in the city. Face shield is considered an important protective gear for health workers and security personnel who directly come in contact with Covid-19 patients. "We planned to produce it locally and experimented with various designs. The design for face shield was finalized considering availability of raw material to make it. It is made of plastic which is easily available. We got it cut through a laser cutter which is available in a nearby industrial unit," said Darshan Desai. Each kit contains five plastic sheets to cover the face along with a frame. The frame is tied with an elastic on back for grip on one’s head. The plastic sheets with holes need to be plugged on to the frame. The sheet is easily replaceable after a few hours of use. "We have so far distributed 1,000 kits to government doctors and private medical professionals. The face shield’s hood doesn't touch the user’s face and gives him/her comfort,” said Dr Puri. The doctors, who received the face shields, have contributed to the cause by paying for them. Now, the group plans to distribute the face shields among Surat Municipal Corporation (SMC) staff engaged in door-to-door health survey. "Many people across globe make such face shields and their designs are readily available. We tried it on 3D printer but it was expensive. Hence, we used laser cutting technique to increase speed of production," said Chevli. The group designed and began production within a week. Its is continuing to make it available to all frontline corona warriors in the city.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/professionals-make-affordable-face-shields-for-virus-warriors/articleshow/75148787.cms||Yagnesh Bharat Mehta
April 15, 2020||Patna||Bihar: Entrepreneur spends Rs 9.5 lakh on masks & soaps for poor||PATNA: At a time when the world is reeling from the Covid-19 pandemic, homemaker-turned-entrepreneur Bandana Singh has come to the rescue of the homeless and the destitute, who cannot afford to buy masks or soaps. With the help of 26 dalit women and young boys of the Dumri Buzurg locality in Naya Gaon of Saran district, Bandana has distributed masks, soaps, vitamin C tablets and biscuits among 15,000 people so far. She meets the cost of buying the relief materials alone. An alumna of St Columba’s College in Hazaribagh, Bandana brought together a group of local dalit women and began manufacturing egg crates in March last year. As the business took off, she ventured into fish farming and has never looked back. “I stepped out of my kitchen for the first time after 28 years of marriage and motivated local women to join me. I have earned a profit of Rs 10.12 lakh in just one year and am using that money to help others,” she told TOI on Tuesday. The quadragenarian claims to have spent Rs 9.5 lakh on purchasing masks, soaps and biscuits for the poor. She makes sure that special focus is given on distribution of relief materials among people residing in dalit ‘tolas’. She said, “One should visit such ‘tolas’ to understand what people living there suffer from to fulfil their basic needs. Helping them gives me a sense of satisfaction.” Asked why she was laying emphasis on distribution of masks and soaps and not essential commodities, Bandana replied, “A lot of people in rural areas have no idea about the importance of masks and soaps amid the coronavirus outbreak. I, therefore, decided to make them aware about the benefits of washing hands, wearing masks and maintaining distance.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/entrepreneur-spends-rs-9-5l-on-masks-soaps-for-poor/articleshow/75147072.cms||Sheezan Nezami
April 15, 2020||Patna||Bihar: Animal and fisheries department starts feeding stray animals||PATNA: In a novel initiative, the animal and fisheries resources department (AFRD) has started feeding stray cattle and dogs in Patna and elsewhere in the state. Three ambulances have also been pressed into service for such stray animals. More than 350 stray cattle have been fed in Patna in the last three days and 250 stray dogs in the last two days. Patna DM Kumar Ravi said stray animals, including cows and buffalo, are being fed since the last few days. “While fodder is being provided to cattle, dogs are being given rice and meat with the help of three ambulances,” he said. Meanwhile, district animal husbandry officer Anuranjan Kumar Gautam said at least four quintals of fodder were distributed among stray cattle on Tuesday. “There are hundreds of stray animals in Patna, which were not getting food due to the lockdown,” he said. Gautam added 10kg mutton and rice was cooked and distributed among 120 stray dogs on Tuesday. “There are thousands of stray dogs in Patna which usually depend on left-over food from restaurants, daily markets and houses. Now that everything has been shut, they are left with nothing to eat. We will continue to feed them till the situation normalises,” he said. Earlier, AFRD secretary Saravana Kumar had written to the district administration to make arrangements to provide food to stray cattle and dogs. “There have been complaints about unavailability of food for stray animals. Proper arrangements should be made by the department to cook food and supply the same to stray animals during the lockdown,” the letter read.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/animal-and-fisheries-dept-starts-feeding-stray-animals/articleshow/75147309.cms||Archi Rani
April 15, 2020||Business||HDFC proposes stressed real estate fund with SBI||TNN Mumbai: HDFC chairman Deepak Parekh has said that the corporation would talk to State Bank of India (SBI) to set up a stressed real estate fund with participation of global investors like International Finance Corporation (IFC). Parekh said that the Yes Bank experience was that a private-public partnership can work, considering that specialised global stress funds expect a usurious return from real estate. Addressing an online gathering organised by Naredco of over 6,000 developers and real estate industry professionals, Parekh asked them to compromise with all parties and cut their personal expenses and take home lesser earnings. He called for temporary relief in the form of short-term stamp duty waiver, hike in tax deductibles for home loan interest and a doubling of the overdue period to 180 days for a loan to be classified as a non-performing asset (NPA). He said this was needed to help tide over the coronavirus crisis and protect jobs and growth. Naredco is a real estate developers’ body. Parekh said that rather than have lenders getting into a legal quagmire with borrowers seeking force majeure exemptions from courts, the RBI should proactively relax norms. He said that the state government could help revive housing sales by opening a short window when stamp duty would be waived after the lockdown is lifted just before the festival season later this year. He said that state governments would also need to allow staggered payment of various fees from developers, including transferable development rights, urban land ceiling charges and Sanad fees. He advised developers to offer incentives to labourers who have left the city in the form of compensation for travel and short-term insurance to incentivise them to return. Earlier, while introducing Parekh, developer Niranjan Hiranandani said that the sector, which was the second-largest employer, was facing its biggest crisis. He said the current bad times have come on the back of multiple stress factors like demonetisation, Real Estate Regulation Act and the IL&FS default. Parekh said, “There is no one alive today who has handled such a crisis. The only time markets have seen a similar crash was during the global recession of 1930 — 90 years ago. The essence of leadership is humility, clarity and courage. Currently, there is zero clarity, so there is a need to rewire our thoughts.” He added that the two bright spots were that India would be one among the three G20 nations expected to grow in FY21. Also, the crash in global crude prices would give major relief to India, which has been spending half its import bill on crude when prices were high. In the webinar, Irfan Razack of Prestige Group said that in affordable housing pricing was on a cost-plus basis. So many developers were already cut to the bone and a 20% fall in prices, as indicated by Parekh last Friday, might lead to defaults. According to Parekh, for unsold inventory, it would make more sense to sell at lower prices than to hold them and take on additional costs. Satish Magar of Pune’s Magarpatta City said that there was a cartelisation among the cement and steel industry and they were not allowing a reduction in prices. J C Sharma of Sobha developers raised the issue of ensuring viability to be able to borrow. Parekh pointed out that HDFC had seen that borrowers who were not able to raise funds have partnered with corporates and construction companies, who complete their projects on their terms. “These companies have a strong balance sheet and can raise the funds required from banks,” said Parekh. Parekh advised developers to be liquid. “Sanctioned lines are not tantamount to liquidity. It will be reviewed,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/hdfc-proposes-stressed-real-estate-fund-with-sbi/articleshow/75148727.cms||---
April 15, 2020||Vadodara||13-year-old girl Vadodara’s youngest Covid casualty||Vadodara/Rajkot: A 13-year-old girl became the youngest Covid-19 casualty in Vadodara city that registered two deaths on Tuesday. The girl from Pratapnagar died in GMERS Hospital, Gotri, on Tuesday evening, within a couple of hours of testing positive. A 58-year-old Nagarwada resident in Vadodara, Mohammed Hanif Pathan, who had tested positive on April 8, also died at a private hospital. Pathan is the second victim from Nagarwada-Saiyedpura area. The death toll in Vadodara now stands at five. In 24 hours ending Tuesday evening, Vadodara saw addition of six new cases, taking the total number of positive cases since the outbreak to 114. Of this, as many as 96 are from the densely populated Nagarwada-Saiyedpura stretch. Meanwhile, a 50-year-old man died of the infection in Bhavnagar’s Sir T Hospital on Tuesday. According to official sources, the victim Ashraf Harun, who was under treatment since March 28, also had co-morbid condition including diabetes. He was on oxygen support since admission, but shifted on ventilator on Monday after his health deteriorated. Harun was a resident of Bhilwara circle.Few hours before he died, Harun released a video message exhorting people to remain inside their homes to protect themselves from the deadly virus and describing his suffering and pain.Meanwhile, three other persons - all in the age group of 18-25 years - tested positive since Monday night, taking the total number of cases to 26 positive cases in the city. One of them is from Shihore town of the district.2.91L in containment zone in SuratSurat: The Surat Municipal Corporation (SMC) on Tuesday declared nine more clusters as 'red zones' and warned people living there to keep themselves 'home quarantined' or face legal actions under the Epidemic Disease Act-1897. Also, seven new positive cases were reported from different parts of the city, taking the tally to 45. With this the SMC has put total 12 clusters with population of 2.91 lakh and 61,982 houses under mandatory home quarantine. “Total 68 teams are engaged in contact tracing of Covid-19 positive patients in red zones ,” said SMC commissioner Banchhanidhi Pani.On Monday, 590 samples were taken for testing as part of the mass testing drive and their reports awaited. Two Covid patients recoverRajkot: 65-year-old Usman Multani who was admitted on March 29 and Shabnam Multani, 29, who was admitted on April 7, have fully recovered and discharged from Sir T Hospital. “These two patients were motivated by the medical team during their isolation so that they remain mentally strong,” district administration said in a release.Anand numbers touch 10Vadodara: With a 54-year-old man, a resident of Aling crossroads area in Khambhat testing positive on Tuesday, the coastal town, now accounts for five Covid-19 cases out of total 10 in Anand district. The man lives in the same area of Khambhat from where four cases have surfaced in the past.‘Police Mitra’ to ease cops’ burdenRajkot: In order to unburden the overworked cops, the Rajkot police has decided to seek help of concerned citizens after the lockdown period got extended to May 3 on Tuesday. “We have decided to form a unit of citizens under the name ‘Police Mitra.’ Each police station will have a unit consisting of 15 to 20 people. ‘Police Mitra’ will be deployed along with the cops,” said Rajkot police commissioner Manoj Agrawal.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/13-year-old-girl-vadodaras-youngest-covid-casualty/articleshow/75148984.cms||---
April 15, 2020||Business||Barclays cuts India 2020 growth forecast to zero||Mumbai: Barclays has said that the Indian economy will not grow at all in 2020 because the economic impact of the coronavirus lockdown is turning out to be worse than anticipated. The British bank had earlier lowered the growth forecast to 2.5% from 4.5% in the wake of the announcement of the first lockdown three weeks ago. “While India’s Covid-19 outbreak has not officially reached the community transmission stage, we believe the existing restrictions on movement are causing much more economic damage than anticipated,” Barclays said. It pointed out that the shutdown was hurting even those sectors that were classified as ‘essential’ and expected to continue operations even during the lockdown. These sectors included mining, agriculture, manufacturing and utility sectors. “Further, combined with the disruption in several service sectors, we now estimate that the economic loss will be close to $234.4 billion (8.1% of GDP), assuming that India will remain under a partial lockdown at least until the end of May. This is much higher than the $120 billion we had estimated earlier for roughly the same period previously,” Barclays said. Given the expected damage to the economy, Barclays has lowered its growth forecast for the calendar year 2020 to 0.0% from 2.5% and 0.8% for FY21 from 3.5%. This is the first time the economy is projected to grow at less than 1% following the coronavirus crisis. “We also expect a weaker profile for recovery given the deteriorating global backdrop, and rising risk of Covid-19 outbreaks leading to local-level shutdowns. Therefore, we also lower our CY2021 GDP growth forecast to 7.5% from 8.0% previously,” the report said. The estimates are based on an assumption that the lockdowns will end by early June, followed by a modest rebound in activity.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/barclays-cuts-india-2020-growth-forecast-to-zero/articleshow/75148849.cms||---
April 15, 2020||Rajkot||Covid-19 positive patients’ clothes get extra attention||Rajkot: The paramedical staff at the Covid Super Speciality Building on the campus of Rajkot Civil Hospital, take special care while washing positive patients’ clothes and personal apparel. “We use Sodium Hypochlorite, a chemical which kills coronavirus instantly, to wash as many as 150 clothes that include patients’ bed sheets, blankets, towels, handkerchiefs and pillow covers,” said Yashaswi Jethwa, a senior official at the Covid Super Speciality Building which has a facility of 250 beds.“After washing the clothes in Sodium Hypochlorite, we mix potassium manganate (KMNO4) with detergent powder in order to sanitize them completely. We make sure to wear personal protective equipment (PPE) dress while washing the clothes,” said Ritesh Trivedi, who has bagged the contract for washing these patients’ clothes.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/covid-19-positive-patients-clothes-get-extra-attention/articleshow/75148754.cms||---
April 15, 2020||Nashik||NMC’s health survey, helpline number receive good response||Nashik: The Nashik Municipal Corporation (NMC) is receiving good response to its health survey weblink (covid19.nmc.gov.in) and mobile helpline number (9821188189) since the services began on Monday. Till Tuesday afternoon, over 3,600 citizens had used either of the services. "Around 1,6000 residents filled the survey forms using the weblink, while around 2,000 have called the helpline number to clear their doubts about Covid-19," a civic official said. Both the services were started by the civic body with the help of Nashik Information Technology Association (NITA) and Nashik smart city company. "The online health survey and mobile helpline number have been designed by our IT firms. The survey form is easy and can be filled within couple of minutes. The NMC may get all the information related to the residents with fever, their contacts (for those came from overseas in last one month) and other Covid-19 related information," Arvind Mahapatra, president of NITA, said. "The civic body will get all the information about the survey on the dashboard at one click. It is difficult to conduct a survey physically, but it is possible to reach thousands of people in a second using the weblink," he added. Bulk SMSs, containing the survey weblink, are being sent to city residents. "We plan to send over 6 lakh messages to residents across the city. So far, we have sent the message to around 2 lakh people," Mahapatra said. Apart from this, the NMC introduced the mobile helpline number for those who need information and guidance regarding coronavirus. Health officials and doctors from the civic body will answer all the queries received on the helpline number.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/nmcs-health-survey-helpline-number-receive-good-response/articleshow/75148935.cms||Tushar Pawar
April 15, 2020||Patna||Darbhanga man commits suicide in isolation camp||DARBHANGA/PATNA: One Binod Yadav (45), who came from Delhi and quarantined in the upgraded secondary school under Simri police station in Darbhanga district, committed suicide on Monday by hanging himself from the window of the room at the school. The headmaster of the school, Samir Kumar, was in his office and the chowkidar, Vinod Paswan, had gone to ease himself when the incident occurred. Binod was a TB patient living with his wife and elder son in Delhi. He left Delhi for his village Kamrauli leaving his family there. As per reports, he travelled in an onion-laden truck to reach Muzaffarpur from where he came to his village on foot. Meanwhile, the Sitamarhi district administration has refuted reports of death of a 17-year-old boy, Subodh Baitha, in Delhi due to starvation. Sitamarhi district public relations department officer Parimal Kumar said the cause of the boy’s death was being ascertained.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/darbhanga-man-commits-suicide-in-isolation-camp/articleshow/75147761.cms||---
April 15, 2020||Patna||Bihar: Committee to meet today on prisoners’ release on parole||PATNA: A high-powered committee would meet on Wednesday to discuss the possibilities of releasing prisoners lodged in state jails on parole in the wake of Covid-19 pandemic. The committee comprises Justice Dinesh Kumar Singh of the Patna high court, additional chief secretary (home) Amir Subhani and IG (prisons and correctional services) Mithilesh Mishra. The committee’s recommendation would be placed before state government for taking a final decision. However, chances of prisoners getting released on parole or bail have become bleak after the Supreme Court made it clear on Monday that its order on the issue was not compulsory for every state to follow. Bihar government had moved the SC seeking modification in its order delivered on March 23 and allowing it not to release prisoners as there were several practical hindrances, including the situation arising after the influx of migrant workers. On March 23, the apex court had ordered forming of state level high-powered committees to decide on releasing prisoners involved in crime attracting seven years or less imprisonment, on parole or bail, in order to decongest jails for preventing Covid-19 spread. State government’s additional standing counsel Keshav Mohan, who appeared in the matter before SC, told TOI over phone that now the ball is in the state government’s court whether to release prisoners or not. When contacted, additional chief secretary (home) said the apex court had upheld the contentions of state government. “The matter would be placed before state government to take a final decision on this issue,” he said. IG Mishra said the process of decongesting overcrowded prisons is already going on in the wake of Covid-19 pandemic. “It had started on April 6. At least 600 prisoners in Beur jail had been earmarked for shifting. Of them, 200 had already been shifted. Similar action is being taken in all those jails where prisoners are more than the capacity,” he said. Meanwhile, a jail superintendent preferring anonymity said quarantine wards had been created inside prisons to keep those coming fresh under quarantine for at least 14 days. “Only after that period they will be shifted to regular wards,” he added. Around 9,000 out of 40,000 jail inmates in state fall in the category of getting relief through parole or bail under the conditions of SC order. The state has 32 district jails, 17 sub-jails and one open jail having the sanctioned capacity of around 43,000 inmates.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/committee-to-meet-today-on-prisoners-release-on-parole/articleshow/75147251.cms||Debashish Karmakar
April 15, 2020||Patna||Enforce lockdown more effectively, Bihar DGP tells SPs||PATNA: DGP Gupteshwar Pandey on Tuesday said the lockdown would be enforced more strictly in the state and those trying to flare up communal tension dealt with sternly. Soon after PM Narendra Modi announced the extension of lockdown till May 3, the state police chief asked all SPs and other senior officers to enforce the lockdown more effectively. “Our responsibility has doubled after the PM’s announcement,” he said. Appreciating the PM’s move to extend the lockdown, the DGP said the announcement came on expected lines. “We were mentally prepared for this,” he said and lauded the state’s police personnel for rendering services by risking their lives. The DGP said some people were trying to vitiate communal harmony in the state by posting objectionable comments on social media. “Our cybercrime cell is keeping a close watch on inflammable comments,” he said. Pandey said at least 24 people were arrested for posting objectionable comments on social media platforms in the last one week. He said the names of those vitiating communal harmony during the lockdown were being entered into the ‘goonda’ registers of different police station. “The chargesheet in such cases will be filed at the earliest for speedy trial,” he added. According to sources in the state police headquarters, altogether 797 people have been arrested and 1,023 FIRs lodged with different police stations in the state since the lockdown started on March 24. In all, 20,766 vehicles were seized and penalty of Rs 4.79 crore realised from the impounded vehicle owners, the sources added. On Tuesday alone, 44 people were arrested and 43 FIRs registered for violation of lockdown. Besides, 2,296 vehicles were impounded and a sum of Rs 65 lakh realised as fine from the violators.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/enforce-lockdown-more-effectively-dgp-tells-sps/articleshow/75147172.cms||---
April 15, 2020||Rajkot||Gujarat: Fight over food results in murder; two held||RAJKOT: The lockdown period seems to have triggered a wave of rage among people, especially labourers who have been rendered jobless. Anger erupts over trivial issues. In one such incident, two labourers were arrested on Monday night for allegedly killing their 50-year-old fellow labourer to death over an issue of standing in a queue to receive food in Morbi. Police said the accused, identified as Jiten Marwadi and Govind Marwadi, had allegedly attacked Mansinh Maiyada with bats. According to the police, the incident took place under Pada Bridge on the bank of Machchu River where labourers live in slums. During the lockdown, an NGO used to dole out free food to the jobless labourers who would stand in a queue to receive it. While Maiyada was standing in the queue along with his wife Kamali, Jiten and Govind pushed them aside and stood in their place on April 10. “This triggered off an altercation between the accused and Maiyada, following which the accused picked up bats and started beating up Maiyada with it, dealing him blows on his head. Maiyada was first taken to Morbi Civil Hospital and from there he was shifted to Rajkot Civil Hospital where he succumbed to his injuries on Monday night,” said P B Gadhvi, inspector with Morbi B division police station. “The accused had fled after committing the crime. However, they returned to their huts, as Maiyada had not died then. After the death of Maiyada, we nabbed them,” added Gadhvi.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/fight-over-food-results-in-murder-two-held/articleshow/75148933.cms||---
April 15, 2020||Patna||Patna: OPD services to start in 2-3 days||PATNA: It will take a couple of days more for outpatient department (OPD) services to begin in the district and sub-divisional hospitals across the state, a health department official said on Tuesday. Moreover, OPD services will not resume in primary health centres (PHCs) across the state. OPD facility was stopped in the district and other hospitals after the nationwide lockdown from March 15 to maintain the protocol for prevention of Covid-19 spread, but emergency and institutional services were being carried out. CM Nitish Kumar on Sunday asked the officials to resume OPD services in government health facilities. There are 36 district hospitals, 46 SDHs and 534 PHCs in Bihar. “We will resume OPD services in two to three days across the state. But there is no plan to start OPD in PHCs,” additional secretary (health) Manoj Kumar told TOI on Tuesday. “At least 600 people come to district hospitals everyday. We are preparing a strategy to screen all such people at the entrance of the hospital,” he said. Manoj said the health department has ensured that emergency and institutional deliveries are carried out in all health institutes without any disruption. But several health institutes in rural and suburban areas had stopped providing emergency services. Indira Gandhi Institute of Medical Sciences (IGIMS) superintendent Dr Manish Mandal said they have extended their emergency as OPD and closed all the entry points, except one to regulate the inflow of people. “A specific area has been identified for this purpose to ensure there is no crowding. Also we started teleservices and consultancy over WhatsApp and video calls and attending to 300 to 400 patients everyday through such means,” he said. Patna Medical College and Hospital (PMCH) superintendent Dr Bimal Karak said they too ran OPD services even during lockdown with stress on social distancing.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/opd-services-to-start-in-2-3-days/articleshow/75147285.cms||Sheezan Nezami
April 15, 2020||Surat||Scores of migrant workers hit the roads in Surat again||SURAT: Nearly 1,000 migrant workers took to the streets in Mohan Nagar Chawl in Varachha area of the city on Tuesday demanding that they be allowed to return to their native states. Police, however, stopped them from reaching the main road after convinced them to go back to their homes after hectic 45-minutes counselling. The migrant workers started gathering late evening and blocked the entire street of the densely populated Baroda Pristage locality. A team of around 50 policemen ensured that the crowd doesn't turn violent and started taking to some people who had taken the lead of the protest. Majority of the workers are from Uttar Pradesh and Bihar. The workers were upset due to extension of lockdown period announced on Tuesday, police said. "The crowd was not violent and they only want to go to their native places. They said that their native states have no issues in getting them back. They just want to get out of here," said a senior police officer. Some of the labourers were also complaining that they are not getting enough food to eat. "We are getting food being distributed by an NGO daily but the quantity is not sufficient. Couple of chappatis, vegetable and one bowl of rice and dal is not sufficient for us," a labourer complained. Police explained them that in the present situation, the priority for those providing food is to ensure that none of them sleep hungry. "If anyone wants more food, they will have to stand in queue again. To ensure there is no wastage, limited food is being distributed to each worker, but they can take as many times they want," said a police officer. Earlier last week migrant workers had blocked the main roads in Pandesara and Laskana areas of the city and resorted to violence. In Pandesara, migrants workers of textile and chemical units from UP, Bihar and Odisha had resorted to stone pelting on police vehicles. In Laskana, migrants from Odisha employed in textile weaving units had blocked Kamrej-Surat highway. After both incidents, police had arrested nearly 80 workers but provided them warm meals.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/scores-of-migrant-workers-hit-the-roads-in-surat-again/articleshow/75148888.cms||---
April 15, 2020||Nashik||Low-key celebrations of ’Bhim Jayanti’ as residents pay homage from their homes||Nashik: The 129th birth anniversary celebrations of Bhimrao Ambedkar was a low-key affair with most people celebrating the day at their respective homes. Unlike last year, there was no procession taken out amid the strict lockdown regulations put by the state government. The district and police administration had appealed to the masses in advance to not organise any rally or mass celebrations to avoid any crowd gathering. The police held meetings with the committee members of the procession and informed them to not organise any rally this year. Mayor Satish Kulkarni and municipal commissioner Radhakrishna Game paid their homage to the portrait of B.R. Ambedkar at NMC headquarters and at Rajiv Gandhi Bhavan on Tuesday morning. Many political leaders and followers garland the Ambedkar statue near Shalimar every year but Tuesday wore a deserted look amid the lockdown. It was only Ambedkar Jayanti Utsav Samit president Adit Tejale and vice-president Deepak Dhoke, who paid their homage to the Dalit leader statue. “We all are followers of Ambedkar but decided to celebrate his 129th birth anniversary in a simple way at home. Accordingly, people celebrated the Bhim Jayanti in a low-key manner,” said Kishore Ghate, an RPI activist. He added that the celebrations were mostly restricted to the respective families but digitally entire India paid homage to the great leader. “I celebrated Ambedkar Jayanti with my sons and a daughter,” said Ghate.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/low-key-celebrations-of-bhim-jayanti-as-residents-pay-homage-from-their-homes/articleshow/75148942.cms||---
April 15, 2020||Hyderabad||Telangana: Homesick Bihar migrant kills self||HYDERABAD: A 24-year-old migrant worker from Bihar allegedly committed suicide by hanging himself in his room at Mallikarjuna Nagar near Uppal. Though the incident might have happened on Saturday night or Sunday, it came to light on Tuesday after a relative alerted police. The victim, Mohammed Amair from Lakhisarai district of Bihar, came to Hyderabad three months ago and was working at an automobile workshop in the neighbourhood doing tinkering work. “The family alleged that the man was depressed as could not move due to the lockdown and wanted to return to his native village. They suspect he took the extreme step because of that,” Uppal inspector Ch Ranga Swamy said. According to cops, no suicide note was found. The body was handed over to his relative, who is from Jeedimetla, after conducting an autopsy at Gandhi Hospital. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/homesick-bihar-migrant-kills-self/articleshow/75149422.cms||---
April 15, 2020||Nashik||City’s air quality index improves since lockdown, satisfactory at 64||Nashik: The air quality index (AQI) of Nashik city, which had crossed the 100-mark before the lockdown was imposed, has now dropped to 64 (as recorded on April 13). On April 10, the AQI was recorded at 72. On March 26, the city’s air quality index stood at 23, making it the lowest in the past five years as against 115 recorded on March 2. On March 25, Prime Minister Narendra Modi announced a nationwide lockdown for 21 days to contain the spread of Covid-19. A week later, the AQI was recorded below 50. The Maharashtra Pollution Control Board (MPCB) officials said the AQI has reduced at large after the lockdown. They said that the rise in AQI is because of the re-suspension of the dust particles in the air. Moreover, the vehicles falling under the essential services category are operational in the city. Also, residents are stepping out of their homes and using private vehicles to visit markets to buy essentials like groceries, grains and medicines, said sources in the MPCB. The activities in both the industrial estates of Maharashtra Industrial Development Corporation (MIDC) have completely stopped due to lockdown as part of preventive measures to curb the spread of Covid-19. AQI rating As per parameters, AQI between 1 and 50 is said to be ideal and has minimal impact, while AQI between 51 and 100 is said to be satisfactory and may cause minor breathing discomfort. AQI between 101 and 200 is moderate and may cause breathing discomfort among people with lung problems, heart diseases as well as children. The AQI between 201 and 300 can cause breathing discomfort, while AQI between 301 and 400 causes respiratory illness to people after prolonged exposure.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/citys-air-quality-index-improves-since-lockdown-satisfactory-at-64/articleshow/75148946.cms||Tushar Pawar
April 15, 2020||Nashik||Centre directs Nafed to get 50,000 tonne of onions||Nashik: The National Agricultural Co-operative Marketing Federation of India Ltd (Nafed) has been directed by the central government to immediately start the process of procuring 50,000 tonne of summer onions towards creation of buffer stock. Accordingly, Nafed has decided to start the process from the last week of April. The average wholesale price of onions has currently dropped to Rs 900 per quintal and the Centre’s move to procure onions can have a positive impact on the market and benefit the farmers. Union agriculture ministry sources told TOI that the the Centre has been creating a buffer stock of onions for the past few years to stabilise the prevailing erratic wholesale onion prices and to deal with the scarcity that could arise between July and September. "This year a target of 50,000 tonne has been given to Nafed and directives have been given to the agency to start procurement immediately," the official said. An official from Nafed said though the procurement target may increase considering the availability of storage facilities for onions. "We will procure onions from Maharashtra and Gujarat. Around 45,000 tonne of onions will be procured from Maharashtra while the remaining 5,000 tonne will be bought from Gujarat." the official from Nafed said. The maximum procurement of onions in Maharashtra is expected to be done from Lasalgaon, Pimpalgaon and Kalwan APMCs of Nashik district. Last year, too, the Centre had procured 57,000 tonne of onions through Nafed to create a buffer stock. Earlier, the target was 50,000 tonne, but Nafed had made additional procurement as per instructions from the central government. Of the total 57,000 tonne procured, around 48,000 tonnes of onions were procured from different pockets of Maharashtra, while the remaining 9,000 tonne were bought from Gujarat. Of the 48,000 tonne procured from Maharashtra, around 19,000 tonne were bought from Nashik district while the remaining 29,000 were bought from Ahmednagar, Usmanabd, Pune and other onion growing belts. Nafed had procured onions at an average rate of around Rs 12,180 per tonne.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/centre-directs-nafed-to-get-50000-tonne-of-onions/articleshow/75259879.cms||Tushar Pawar
April 15, 2020||Nashik||How NGOs are lending a helping hand to disabled||Nashik: In these tough times of lockdown to contain the spread of coronavirus, NGOs as well as individuals in the city have risen to the occasion, helping the needy while also focussing on disabled people. A number of citizens, including employers, have come up with the idea of giving the contact numbers of NGOs or paying the bills to grocery shops directly for purchase of items by the needy. “I asked my employer that people like me are facing difficulties due to the lockdown and require groceries. He gave me the contact number of an NGO, which readily helped and asked me to inform more people,” said Rameshwar Lonare, a visually-challenged man from Sinnar. There are several disabled people, who earn their livelihood by selling toys and keychains in trains, and are facing problems now. “I shared 48 contact details with NGOs, which helped them out. These NGOs either went door-to-door to distribute groceries or asked the local grocer to give them the required items. They made the online payment for the groceries,” said Lonare. Girish Ugale Patil, employed with such an NGO, said they have helped 15 people so far. “All of them do not possess ration cards and are in dire need of groceries as they do not have any savings with them. I go to their homes and deliver rice, pulses, flour, oil and salt,” he said. Patil said anyone who wants to contribute can contact their nearby grocer and ask them to give necessary items to them. “When the person goes to take the delivery, online payment can be done for it.” Dattu Bodke, another citizen, said that a few people had approached him seeking help. “I got in touch with the NGOs working in that area and helped nearly 100 people in the last few days. I have also written a letter to the municipal commissioner, informing that there are more than 5,000 people with disabilities in the city who should be helped through the government fund,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/how-ngos-are-lending-a-helping-hand-to-disabled/articleshow/75148962.cms||pragya jain
April 15, 2020||Aurangabad||Civic body set to go under charge of administrator||Aurangabad: The Aurangabad Municipal Corporation (AMC) is all set to go under the administrator as the civic elections have been deferred owing to the Covid-19 outbreak. The current term of Aurangabad Municipal Corporation’s (AMC) general body ends on April 28. Keeping this in mind, the state election commission had planned and initiated the process to conduct the elections. Accordingly, the draw for reservation of 115 wards was carried out on February 3. The process of inviting objections followed by hearing and releasing the final draft of ward formation and reservation was also held. However, due to the lockdown, the state election commission, on March 18, had announced that all process related to the AMC election has been postponed until further notice. Aparna Thete, AMC legal adviser, said the model code of conduct has to be implemented a month before the election. "Since the one-month time for the model code of conduct has been missed, it has become clear that a new body cannot be elected before the tenure of the current body ends. Therefore, the civic body’s charge will go to the administrator as soon as the body is dissolved according to the Maharashtra Municipal Corporation Act," she said. She added that rules state that the administrator can hold the charge for a maximum of 6 months.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/civic-body-set-to-go-under-charge-of-administrator/articleshow/75148963.cms||Arpita Sharad
April 15, 2020||Mangaluru||Throat swab sent for testing of man who died in pvt hosp||Mangaluru: Doctors from Dakshina Kannada have collected a throat swab from a youth who died under mysterious circumstances in a private hospital, on Tuesday. According to police, a 27-year-old, who was a resident of Surathkal and working at a chicken’s shop in Hamilton Circle, was suffering from acute stomach pain and breathing issues from the past four days. He was under medical care at a nursing home in Surathkal. However, his condition got worse on Tuesday, and he was shifted to a private hospital in Mangaluru, where he died after not responding to treatment. Police said that since he died under mysterious circumstances, his throat swab has been collected and sent for testing. Dakshina Kannada DHO Dr Ramachandra Bayari, said that whenever a person dies under mysterious circumstance, their throat swab is collected and sent for testing. The youth was brought to a hospital in Attavar, with trouble in breathing, and was declared dead after sometime. As per procedure, we have taken his throat swab. The person has no history of travelling abroad, anywhere else in the state, or to another district. The reason for his death is yet to be ascertained.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mangaluru/throat-swab-sent-for-testing-of-man-who-died-in-pvt-hosp/articleshow/75147870.cms||---
April 15, 2020||Meerut||Meerut: 5 cops quarantined, two police stations sanitised after detainee turns out to be Covid-19 positive||MEERUT: Scores of policemen posted at Meerut’s two police stations were on the edge on Tuesday after it was found that one of the five men, arrested for allegedly attacking government officials, had tested positive for Covid-19. Soon, a hunt for all the close contacts was launched and five policemen were put under quarantine. The detainee was kept in the lockups of two police stations-- Sadar and Delhi Gate. Both the buildings were sanitised. On Sunday, three Covid-19 patients and nine others were booked for allegedly attacking a team of policemen and district administration officials in city’s Delhi Gate area when they went to take away the infected men and to seal the lane they were living in. Senior superintendent of police (SSP) Meerut Ajay Sahni told TOI, “We had arrested eight persons, including three Covid-19 positive patients. The positive ones were isolated. While five were put in the lockups. Now, out of those five, one has tested positive. He had been put into lockups of two police stations. Both have been sanitized and five policemen including two sub-inspectors and two constables have been sent to isolation centres for 14 days.” During a drive, police had found 10 Jamaat members, all residents of Malegaon in Maharashtra, staying in the mosque in Jali Koti area. Of them, three had tested positive on Friday evening. A police team accompanied by city magistrate rushed to the spot to sanitize and seal the lane in Jali Kothi area, where the mosque is situated. They also wanted to take away the positive patients. However, a scuffle broke out. Later, police claimed that stones were also hurled on them. “City magistrate Sushant Jain and two policemen sustained injuries in the attack by locals who were against the sealing,” a police officer said. Soon after the attack, 12 people were booked and eight of them arrested for the attack.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/meerut/5-cops-quarantined-two-police-stations-sanitised-after-detainee-turns-out-to-be-covid-19-positive/articleshow/75148968.cms||Sandeep Rai
April 15, 2020||Nashik||Maharashtra: 60-year-old woman with no travel history dies in Ahmednagar||NASHIK: A 60-year-old woman, a confirmed Covid-19 patient from Kopargaon in Ahmednagar, died at the Ahmednagar civil hospital on Tuesday morning. This is the first coronavirus-related death in Ahmednagar, said a release from the Ahmednagar district administration. Ahmednagar district health officer Sandeep Sangle said, “It has not been ascertained how the woman had contracted the virus. She had no overseas travel history and it could not be established if she had come in contact with any Covid-19 patient.” The woman was suffering from cough and cold and was shifted to the district hospital. Her throat swab samples were sent to the Pune Army Medical College. On April 10, the report came positive. Later, the woman was shifted to the Booth hospital in Ahmednagar. However, she started suffering from respiratory problems and high blood pressure and was again taken to the district hospital. She was being treated in the Intensive Care Unit (ICU). The patient died during the course of treatment early on Tuesday morning. “We also took throat swab samples of 17 close contacts of the patient, but their reports were negative,” said Sangle. Ahmednagar has 28 Covid-19 patients and so far, only three have been discharged from the hospital. The remaining 22, including four foreigners, are undergoing treatment. All these 22 patients are linked to the Tablighi Jammat event in New Delhi either directly or indirectly. The district administration has also identified four Covid-19 hotspots — Mukundnagar (Ahmednagar city), Jamkhed, Alamgir and Naikwadpura (Sangamner town) — given the number of patients there. Meanwhile, district collector Rahul Dwivedi appealed to people to take note of the serious nature of the virus and stay indoors to avoid social contact.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/60-year-old-woman-with-no-travel-history-dies-in-ahmednagar/articleshow/75148965.cms||Santosh Sonawane
April 15, 2020||Aurangabad||Farmer hit with cane by cops while watering corn crop; probe ordered||Aurangabad: A 26-year-old farmer from Bangaon Shivar village, in the Kramad police station limits, alleged that he was brutally assaulted by unidentified policemen while he was watering his farm, situated along an internal road.Taking serious cognisance of the complaint lodged by Uddhav Mate, the farmer, Aurangabad superintendent of police (rural) Mokshada Patil has ordered a high-level probe. Moreover, the authorities have already started making efforts to identify the suspects.When contacted, Patil said, “When we showed the photos of all our personnel to the farmer, he said the cops who attacked him were not in the photos. We are also verifying the veracity of his claim and complaint.”The officer also said that she has ordered the CCTV footage to be checked to ascertain if some personnel went there. “All our vehicles have GPS. We are checking everything to find out the suspects who allegedly assaulted the farmer,” said Patil.Senior police officers unanimously said that there are standing orders to policemen to abstain from using force against any commoner, especially those who are essential service providers.The victim elder brother Prabhakar told TOI: “My brother had been to our farm to water the corn crop. Between 11.45 pm and midnight on Monday, a vehicle with policemen was passing by the road when they spotted my brother in the farm and asked what he was doing. Despite telling the policemen that he was watering the crops, they hit him with canes.”On Tuesday morning, the farmer contacted Karmad police station inspector Santosh Khetmalas and brought the matter to his notice. But the inspector told the farmer that the men who assaulted him did not belong to his police station.The incident was later brought to the notice of the seniors in the departments. Also, the incident attracted serious criticism from different quarters in society.Sources said after the latest complaint, Aurangabad SP has reiterated her instructions about dealing with the commoners and also warned against the use of force.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/farmer-hit-with-cane-by-cops-while-watering-corn-crop-probe-ordered/articleshow/75148967.cms||Mohammed Akhef
April 15, 2020||Hyderabad||Secunderabad: Not given food or water, say workers||SECUNDERABAD: Some 300 migrant workers, who are stranded in Malkajgiri, said they are not being given food, water, and salary and are forced to live in absymal conditions. The workers from UP, Bihar and Bengal, were hired by a construction company. Police denied their claims. “Their salaries are paid. They want to go back to their native villages, so they are making the claims,” a Malkajgiri police official said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/not-given-food-or-water-say-workers/articleshow/75149430.cms||---
April 15, 2020||Meerut||Covid-19 patients found missing, house locked||Bijnor: Family members of a Covid-19 positive patient were found missing from its house at Manjheda village under Nagina police station area of Bijnor.According to police, a health team had gone to the house to collect samples of the patient's family members. It found the house locked and everyone gone. The team collected samples of neighbours.Now, several teams have been constituted to trace them.The man whose family disappered was one of the five who tested positive on Tuesday. All patients were shifted to Moradabad.According to district magistrate Ramakant Pandey, "Five patients tested positive for Covid-19 on Tuesday. The tally has reached eight here. Besides, a Bijnor resident was found positive in Kanpur last week. We have sanitised and sealed all hot spots. Essentials will be supplied by the administration to them. Family members of other patients have been quarantined."Nagina station house officer Rajesh Tiwari said, "Police have found the house of a patient locked in Manjheda. During investigation, we learnt that man who tested positive, runs a bakery in Pune. He frequented his native village. He had come here two months ago. He had attended Delhi's Tablighi Jamaat meeting last month. Police had tested him and kept in quarantine. His house was found locked. We are checking whether his family members were staying here or not."||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/meerut/covid-19-patients-found-missing-house-locked/articleshow/75148973.cms||Harveer Dabas
April 15, 2020||Meerut||Administration in UP’s Baghpat put up posters of 2 Covid-19 patients for ‘contact tracing’||MEERUT: In an unusual move, administration in UP’s Baghpat district have put up posters of two persons, who contracted novel coronavirus during the Tablighi Jamaat event in Delhi’s Nizamuddin, in their bid to alert and find all those locals who came in contact with them. “The appeal through these posters is part of the contact mapping process of Covid-19 positive patients. It has been done to ensure that everyone who has come in their contact is accounted for, and put under quarantine,” a police officer said. The two patients hail from Bihar and had come to the district after attending the Delhi’s religious congregation with a group. All of them have been put under quarantine. The area where they stayed has now been sealed. In somewhat similar move, police in Meerut’s Mawana area had spread a message with a picture of a vegetable vendor on social media platforms after he tested positive for the contagious disease. In the message, police asked everyone who had come in the vendor’s contact to come forward and get quarantined.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/meerut/admin-in-ups-baghpat-put-up-posters-of-2-covid-19-patients-for-contact-tracing/articleshow/75148972.cms||Piyush Rai
April 15, 2020||Kolkata||Tougher charges against 50 lockdown violators||Kolkata: Majority of the lockdown violators, who were arrested in the city from Sunday to Monday evening, was slapped with the more stringent Disaster Management Act. At least 30 of the 70 police stations have registered specific charges under section 51 (b) of the act against 50-odd violators. According to sources, police stations got instructions from Lalbazar about enforcement of the act that, they said, will help them lay down the “exact ground, on which violators are arrested. Hence it will be easier for them to convince courts about the extent of violations.” The act also allows the accused to be jailed up to two years – 1.6 years more than the maximum punishment under IPC section 188. In the past 18 days of the lockdown, the police have brought to book the violators under this section. “While IPC 188 deals with violations of government orders, ‘offences and penalties’ mentioned under Sections 51 to 60 of Disaster Management Act serves as an effective tool against those violating the lockdown and causing hindrances to prevention or containment of Coronavirus,” said a public prosecutor. He added that any court will have to take cognizance of the act for the first time. However, the 50 arrests till Monday evening were made at police stations in north and central Kolkata like Tallah, Shyampukur, Girish Park, Bowbazar and Kasba, Hastings, Tangra, Survey Park and Purba Jadavpur in south and south suburban Kolkata. Most of these police stations are either in the 27 wards where surveillance has been stepped up or where lockdown violations have been reported. Rajabagan, where seven cops were injured while trying to enforce the lockdown, is also slapping violators with this section. The Section 51 (b) of the act states that if anyone refuses to comply with the direction given by Centre or state government or district authority, the person will be subjected to punishment with one-year imprisonment or with fine or both. In addition to this, if the refusal to comply with any direction results in loss of lives or imminent danger, the accused will be punishable with the period of imprisonment being extended up to two years. Earlier in the first week of April, Centre had directed states and union territories to book all violators under relevant provisions of the Disaster Management Act, 2005. In a letter to all chief secretaries, Union home Secretary Ajay Bhalla said the lockdown measures, issued on March 24, clearly mention that “any person violating the containment measures will be liable to be proceeded against as per the provisions of Section 51 to 60 of the Disaster Management Act, 2005, besides legal action under Section 188 of the IPC.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/tougher-charges-against-50-lockdown-violators/articleshow/75136909.cms||Dwaipayan Ghosh
April 15, 2020||Kolkata||Excise set to allow home delivery of liquor||Kolkata: After almost three dry weeks, tipplers in some parts of the state may finally get to buy a bottle, not at an off-shop but right at their doorstep through home delivery. Even though the excise department has not issued any notification allowing home delivery, sources revealed that off-shop owners have been informed that home delivery of liquor could be permitted if the local administration agrees. There is no option of home delivery in excise laws which do not prohibit it either. “It depends on the interpretation of the law,” said a liquor expert. Amrit Kiran Singh, executive chairman of International Spirits and Wine Association of India, said: “As per FSSAI Act 2006, food is an essential item and alcohol has been classified as food item in this act few years back. Only problem in our country is perception about this trade.” The local administration and excise officials in some districts are worried that if official liquor continues to remain elusive, spurious liquor would cause major damage. “I have got calls from excise officials asking us to start home delivery. I am thinking how to do it,” said a leading retailer who has liquor shops in both Kolkata and districts. Last week, the excise department had suggested the Wuhan model — the global epicentre of the pandemic had successfully attempted home delivery of liquor through an app during its 68-day lockdown. Last Wednesday (April 8), there was an informal communication from excise that liquor will be home delivered from on-shops/off-shops/ bars/restaurants/ hotels with a valid liquor licence. It may be recalled that state beverage corporation (Bevco) has started functioning from last Friday. Bevco is the distribution arm of the state government which now controls wholesale liquor trade in Bengal. Bevco forms the backbone of the liquor trade supply chain to retailers. Bevco workers are already engaged in offloading trucks queued in different warehouses. Bevco has 22 warehouses in the state in different locations. According to excise officials, following lockdown from March 23 afternoon, several trucks of manufacturers got stuck in warehouses. It was learnt that Bevco warehouses have stocks for 6-7 days taken together IMFL and beer. (With inputs from Falguni Banerjee and Suman Mandal)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/excise-set-to-allow-home-delivery-of-liquor/articleshow/75136934.cms||---
April 15, 2020||Meerut||Inmates in 5 west UP jails contribute Rs 2.3 lakh to CM’s Relief Fund||MEERUT: At least 500 inmates in five West UP jails — Meerut, Muzaffarnagar, Bulandshahr, Ghaziabad and Baghpat — have contributed Rs 2.3 lakh towards the UP Chief Minister’s Relief Fund. The inmates had earned the money from wages they receive for work in prison industry, like carpentry, black-smithy, tailoring, weaving etc. “It’s not about the amount but their resolve to help the government in fighting the pandemic,” said Anand Kumar, director general (prison administration and reform services). Prisons in UP have been at the forefront of the fight against Covid-19. Prisoners in Ghaziabad raise the maximum of Rs 84,600, followed by Meerut inmates with Rs 81,700, and Muzaffarnagar jailbirds with Rs 28,000. High-quality, affordable protective masks are being produced at almost all prisons in the state for the retail market. According to senior jail officials, more than 5 lakh masks were stitched by “caged warriors” in a month. Some jails have also started personal protective equipment (PPE) kits, to be used by health workers. “Caged warriors and unsung heroes have pitched in, by stitching over 5 lakh masks in less than a month, a record of sorts. In addition, foray into making PPEs for health workers has begun. 50 sets of PPEs, including “full face shield masks” and “full body aprons” have been stitched by inmates at Balarampur jail as per specifications and handed over to the director of Balarampur hospital. There are 100 more sets in the pipeline,” said Kumar, DG (prison).||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/meerut/inmates-in-5-west-up-jails-contribute-rs-2-3-lakh-to-cms-relief-fund/articleshow/75148974.cms||---
April 15, 2020||Meerut||Stranded in Kota, man watches his son’s funeral on video call||BIJNOR: Zulfikar Ahmad, 46, helplessly watched as his younger son, 15, was lowered into a grave on the outskirts of his village in UP’s Bijnor district. Sitting 700km away in Rajasthan’s Kota district, he glanced at the pale face of his son one last time on a video call on Monday night. Stranded due to lockdown, Zulfikar couldn’t fulfil the last wish of his son, Shakir Ahmad, a Class IX student who allegedly committed suicide on Monday morning. Shakir hanged himself from a tree after scribbling a request on its bark that his father should bring down his body and perform the last rites. The reason of his suicide is not known yet. A tailor by profession, Zulfikar was on Kota roads the entire day, and met several government officials to get the permission to reach home in Bijnor’s Sherkot area. But, he couldn’t make it to the funeral. He left for his home on Tuesday evening after local policemen arranged a vehicle for him, and the owner of the firm he worked in gave him salary in advance. “I tried. Even if I would have got the permission to travel, I had no money to pay for a vehicle to take me home. But, I was just trying for my son,” Zulfikar told over phone. “Somehow, I managed to meet the district magistrate. He asked for documents showing that my son was dead, like the post-mortem report copy. He also asked for a copy of the vehicle’s registration paper on which I was planning to travel. I couldn’t manage any of them and returned to my room in the evening. The money I had was exhausted a week ago,” he added. Late on Monday evening, a distraught Zulfikar told his family members that he wouldn’t be able to come. “With the help of neighbours, my family members arranged the funeral on Monday night. They showed me the last rites via a video call. My son had this last wish that I bury him. But I could not fulfil it,” Zulfikar said. “I am a tailor, and had left Bijnor for Kota on March 2. Everything was fine at home. But on Monday morning, I got the call that Shakir has committed suicide. How could he,” he asked. On Tuesday morning, moved by Zulfikar’s plight, a few policemen in Kota arranged a pass and a vehicle for him. “Owner of the firm where I work gave me Rs 20,000 to travel. Policemen at Kishorpura station arranged a private vehicle for me. We will leave for Bijnor on Tuesday evening now. It is necessary for me to return home to check whether my son committed suicide or he was murdered,” Zulfikar said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/meerut/stranded-in-kota-man-watches-his-sons-funeral-on-video-call/articleshow/75148980.cms||Harveer Dabas
April 15, 2020||Meerut||Six new Covid-19 cases in Meerut, five in Bijnor||MEERUT: Meerut reported six new cases while neighbouring Bijnor reported five new cases on Tuesday. With this, the district tally of Meerut reached 65 and the number of cases in Bijnor district have reached nine. Many of these tests were conducted at Lala Lajpat Rai Memorial (LLRM) Medical College. Meerut chief medical officer Dr Raj Kumar said, “As many as six new cases have been reported in Meerut on Tuesday – taking the total district tally to 65 -- including one in Kanpur. Contact tracing of the six cases is being done.” Meanwhile, in Meerut, the number of active cases reached 55 as nine were discharged last week and one died in April first week. Bijnor district magistrate Ramakant Pandey, said, “As many as five new cases have been reported in Bijnor, and contact tracing is being done. An area of one kilometre around their locations has been sealed. They belong to Mujahid Patti Bhaguwala village, Linepaar colony, Sabalpur Beetra village (Najibabad), Mirzapur Bega village and Mandavali.” With this, the total tally in Bijnor reached nine, including one admitted in Kanpur. All the patients were in the age group of 17-40 years.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/meerut/six-new-covid-19-cases-in-meerut-five-in-bijnor/articleshow/75148975.cms||Ishita Bhatia
April 15, 2020||Hubballi||Mob attacks PDO during campaign||Bagalkot: A panchayat development officer (PDO) was allegedly assaulted by a mob while he was conducting a coronavirus awareness drive at Mudhol taluk on Tuesday. Vijayakumar, attached to the Dadanatti gram panchayat, was attacked by a group led by Ravi Chichakhandi while visiting households and briefing them about the precautionary measures to be taken against the pandemic. Bagalkot SP Lokesh Jagalasar said that Ravi has been arrested and the probe is on.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hubballi/mob-attacks-pdo-during-campaign/articleshow/75146485.cms||---
April 15, 2020||Aurangabad||Social distancing rule thrown to the wind for free rice at shop||Aurangabad: As soon as the fair price shop, under the public distribution system (PDS), in the cantonment area received rice stocks on Tuesday, ration cardholders in the area thronged the shop to get their share. Low-income households which have ration cards had been waiting for the supply of free rice as promised by the central government. However, when they reached the shop, they found that they have to wait in a long queue to get their quota of grains. The frenzy of getting free ration got the better of the citizens, so much so that they even forgot to observe the social distancing norms that have been, time and again, promulgated by the government and the administration. Activist Laxman Deshmukh of Chawni Jan Adhikar Manch said the residents had to stand for two hours under the sun. “Getting their quota of rice is not an option but a question of survival. Provisions should have been made to ensure early availability of grains at fair price shops,” said Deshmukh.Aam Aadmi Party’s spokesperson from Marathwada Sugriv Munde said that the assurance that adequate ration was available at the shops would prevent people from rushing all at once. Munde had earlier written to the state government about the non-availability of grains and the closure of the shops. When asked, district supply officer Mahadeo Kirwale said that of the 199 shops in the city, 178 had the stock of free ration on Tuesday. He added that all the shops in the city would have adequate ration stocks, including the rice that is to be given for free, on Thursday.“With temperatures soaring and in order to ensure social distancing, we have instructed the shopkeepers to distribute chits to the people apprising them about the estimated time of their turn,” said Kirwale. He added several shopkeepers had been asked to chalk out markings to ensure people stand at atleast 1m away from each other. “I will remind the shopkeepers about these measures and see to it that they are followed on Wednesday,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/social-distancing-rule-thrown-to-the-wind-for-free-rice-at-shop/articleshow/75148987.cms||Arpita Sharad
April 15, 2020||Kolkata||West Bengal: Covid-19 patient in Haldia on way to full recovery||KOLKATA: The berth supervisor at the Haldia Dock Complex (HDC), who had tested positive to Covid-19 on April 1, is now on his way to full recovery. His samples, collected for the second time on Sunday, tested negative to the virus. The three port officials, who had come in contact with the supervisor, will have to complete their full period in quarantine before joining work. The supervisor had reportedly returned to Haldia from the Tablighi Jamaat gathering at Nizamuddin on March 24.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/haldia-berth-supervisor-on-way-to-full-recovery/articleshow/75136968.cms||Jayanta Gupta
April 15, 2020||Nagpur||People from sealed slums using railway colony route to step out||NAGPUR: The residents of Motibagh railway colony are peeved over frequent movement of people from Dobi Nagar slums adjoining Mominpura, which has been sealed after discovery of Covid-19 cases. Residents of nearby slums in Dobi Nagar, Ansar Nagar and Mominpura are using the road along the now abandoned narrow gauge railway line and other lanes to reach various city areas through Motibagh colony. “Earlier, efforts to push them back were nullified by these slum youth who would threaten anyone trying to stop them. We put up a temporary barricade near Matatoli but that was removed by the people,” said a resident. “Motibagh residents fear Dobi Nagar slum might be hotspot of coronavirus cases like Mumbai’s Dharavi slum. They want complete end to trespassing,” said a social worker from the area. The social worker added many Tablighi Jamaat members had still not voluntarily come forward to go for Covid-19 tests and have gone into hiding. “One never knows whether the trespassers are among them,” he said. Senior divisional security commandant (SrDSC) heading the Railway Protection Force (RPF) Ashutosh Pandey said, “I have been told these slum dwellers use colony roads to bring ration. Earlier, we had sealed entry points to Motibagh colony with the help of Pachpaoli police. From Wednesday, we plan to seal the lanes coming from slums permanently.” A section of residents said trespassing continues despite RPF barracks close to the area. RPF personnel have been posted at the main entry point from the front side but the security is lax towards backyard. “With narrow gauge train operations shut, the South East Central Railway (SECR) should close the area permanently and seal bridge Number 4 from where these slum dwellers enter the colony. This area will be encroached upon in future,” they warned.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/people-from-sealed-slums-using-rly-colony-route-to-step-out/articleshow/75148998.cms||---
April 15, 2020||Ahmedabad||Gujarat government school staff want paper evaluation deferred||AHMEDABAD: State government-run schools have sought the intervention of Gujarat chief minister Vijay Rupani to defer the evaluation of board exam answer papers. The state education department had on Monday fixed April 16 for checking of answer papers of the Class X and XII board exams. The demand from school representatives comes in the wake of Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s address to the nation on Tuesday where he announced a 19-day extension of the lockdown, till May 3, to curb the spread of Covid-19. In a letter to chief minister Vijay Rupani on Tuesday, the Gujarat Rajya Sangh Shaishanik Sangh Sankalan Samiti pressed for their demand that the evaluation process begin after the lockdown. The association has principals, teachers and other government school officials as its members. In their letter, the association has also sought a ‘work-from-home’ option for evaluating exam papers. Apart from the health risks to teachers, the letter also cites the problems of commuting. The evaluation process, held at 300-odd centres, sees as many as 50,000 teachers participate. These centres are spread across the state and many evaluators are need to travel from one district to another. “It is not possible to check exam papers during the lockdown when all private and government transportation is banned. Rural areas are under lockdown and we cannot get there,” said Bhaskar Patel, vice-president of the association. He said that the government should explore the option of having a single centre for paper-checking where different subject evaluators can be called on different days. A teacher, who is to report for duty on April 16, said, “While the PM is saying that next week is critical, it feels unsafe to move out of the house for evaluation. We will not only be risking our lives, but also contributing to the spread of the virus.” Another educator felt the evaluation process should be postponed to when it is safe to move outside. She added, “We do not wish to emerge as a virus carrier and endanger our families and society at large.” More than 17.5 lakh students took the board exams earlier this year. Dinesh Chaudhari, general secretary of the association, said that the managements of various self-financed schools, who recently donated Rs 51 lakh to the chief minister’ fund towards the fight against Covid-19, should be engaged in the evaluation process by the government.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/govt-school-staff-want-paper-evaluation-deferred/articleshow/75149003.cms||---
April 15, 2020||Hubballi||65 Covid-19 patients have been discharged in state: Sreeramulu||Davanagere: As many as 65 Covid-19 patients have been cured so far, and discharged from hospitals across the state, out of 258 cases detected in Karnataka, said health minister B Sreeramalu, in Davanagere on Tuesday. On the sidelines of the review meeting held at the deputy commissioner’s office here, Sreeramulu said that the rate of infection of coronavirus cases is declining in places which are dry, hot and sunny in the state. Earlier, we were in third position with respect to Covid 19 infection cases and now we have reached the 12th position, and it is a good sign, the health minister said. So far, we have opened up over 6,000 isolation wards in 30 districts of the state, and purchased 150 ventilators as on Tuesday, he said. Shortly, a coronavirus testing lab will be opened in Davanagere, he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hubballi/65-covid-19-patients-have-been-discharged-in-state-sreeramulu/articleshow/75147997.cms||---
April 15, 2020||Aurangabad||Chorus grows for extending date of propertytax payment||Aurangabad: With the extension of lockdown till May 3, the demand for extending the date for paying property tax, with discount, has once again gathered momentum.The Aurangabad Municipal Corporation (AMC), however, has not made any fresh announcement regarding payment of property tax. A civic official on Tuesday said a decision in this regard will be taken once the bills are generated.As per the figures released on February 7, of the Rs 211 crore target set by municipal commissioner Astik Kumar Pandey towards property tax collection, the civic body could collect only Rs 95.88 crore. The civic body was expecting a rise in collection towards the end of financial year 2019-2020. But this too could not happen due to the lockdown.Meanwhile, demand for extension of property tax filing date for the last financial year is also being sought. According to civic activist Rahul Ingle, municipal commissioner should proactively take measures making it easy for people to pay property tax dues. "The cent per cent relief on interest of outstanding dues and 20 per cent relief in new bills will encourage people to clear their dues. This will also lead to improvement in the financial condition of the ailing civic corporation," Ingle said, adding that he has emailed a letter to the municipal commissioner with the same demand.Congress group leader in AMC Bhausaheb Jagtap said owing to the ongoing lockdown many people have landed in severe financial crunch. "We are seeking an extension of date for filing property tax until the lockdown is on," he said.Being asked whether the civic body is planning to offer any relief in property tax to the citizens, tax officer Karan Chavan said the bills have been sent for printing. "We can assess the current demand by deducting previous payments from the outstanding dues and adding the demand for fresh financial year. The decision on property tax can be taken by the municipal commissioner and mayor only after the demand for current financial year is raised," he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/chorus-grows-for-extending-date-of-propertytax-payment/articleshow/75148994.cms||Arpita Sharad
April 15, 2020||Kolkata||Hospital faces legal action, 4 behind bars||Siliguri: In a first, a private hospital in Siliguri has been slapped with penal proceedings for its reluctance to turn the facility into a Covid-19 hospital. Two hospital staffers were arrested while two locals were also put behind the bars for leading a protest at the hospital against the state government’s decision. The Darjeeling CMOH, Pralay Acharya, said, “The administration has taken action against the private health facility because its management showed reluctance to turn it into a designated Covid-19 hospital.” Siliguri DCP, Zone II (West), Kuwar Bhusan Singh, said, “We received a complaint from the Darjeeling district magistrate against the private health facility.” “The arrested hospital staffers have been booked under section 188 IPC (disobeying a government order) and sections 51B and 57 of Disaster Management Act 2005 and West Bengal Maintenance of Public Order Act.” Desun Hospital director J P Sharma said, “I am in Kolkata and I do not know about the issue”. Hospital staffers in Siliguri said they were not authorised to speak on the matter.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/hospital-faces-legal-action-4-behind-bars/articleshow/75137002.cms||Roshan Gupta
April 15, 2020||Vadodara||Chhota Udepur registers 5th case||Vadodara: Two more persons tested positive for coronavirus in Chhota Udepur taking the total number of cases in the tribal district to five. The two new patients are immediate relatives of the third Covid-19 victim from Bodeli who had tested positive on April 11. District administration officials said that one is 30-year-old elder brother and the other 23-year-old sister-in-law of the third patient. While the epidemiological connection of the third patient is being established, officials said that the two new patients and the third patient were living in the same building. “The two new patients were already in the government quarantine facility and their samples were collected as the protocol says that all immediate family members of a positive patient have to be moved there,” said district collector Sujal Mayatra. The third patient had gone to a private hospital in Bodeli on April 10 as he and his mother had some symptoms of the virus. They were then referred to isolation ward in Chhota Udepur where their samples were collected. While his mother had tested negative, the youth’s report was positive. So far, all five cases in the district have been reported from Bodeli town on Chhota Udepur. A 60-year-old man, who had attended a congregation of Tablighi Jamaat in Delhi, was the first patient and his two-year-old granddaughter was the second patient.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/chhota-udepur-registers-5th-case/articleshow/75148412.cms||---
April 15, 2020||Ahmedabad||Muslim organizations offer buildings for quarantines||Ahmedabad: Three Muslim organizations have offered their buildings in the city to the Ahmedabad Municipal Corporation (AMC) and the government authorities as quarantines.The Iqra hospital in Juhapura, Jamia Faizan-ul-Quran madrasa in Sarasur and another madrasa in Sarkhej known as Jamia Darul Quran, and Gulliwala madrasa are on offer. The authorities told the organizations that these facilities will be used if needed.“In all 1,200 beds will be available when these three buildings are used as quarantine centres,” said Maulana Habib Ahmed of Issa Foundation. “We have been managing community kitchens ever since the city was placed under lockdown. We have resources and therefore told the municipal commissioner that we will bear the expenses of all patients and doctors and paramedical staff at our buildings. Our Issa Foundation will manage their food.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/muslim-organizations-offer-buildings-for-quarantines/articleshow/75149009.cms||---
April 15, 2020||Nagpur||Travel history revealed, 32 quarantined from Shanti Nagar||Nagpur: The Nagpur Municipal Corporation (NMC) containment team led by Dr Minakshi Mane on Tuesday picked up 26 persons, including a big family from Mahesh Nagar in Shanti Nagar, as part of the contact tracing of 53-year-old nephew of the city’s first Covid-19 victim from Satranjipura. Another team traced the nephew’s six friends, with whom he had been on a trip, from Shanti Nagar and Azam Shah Chowk, and quarantined them.So far, NMC had been carrying out containment drive in Satranjipura following the death of the 68-year-old man on April 5. The wife of the 53-year-old nephew, who is a Haj and Umrah tour operator, tested positive on Monday. The big family is of the tour operator’s elder brother.On April 14, TOI had highlighted how Nagpur Municipal Corporation (NMC) was clueless about the nephew’s travel history, and officials only swung into action after a tip off by this paper.The Mahesh Nagar-based family of the tour operator’s elder brother was placed in institutional quarantine at MLA Hostel.This family had remained out of the radar of the NMC containment team led by additional medical officer health Dr Praveen Ganatwar mainly because of their reliance on the tour operator’s verbal submissions.His profession had been recorded as ‘cushion works’ by NMC officials, thus missing the most important link in containing the spread of the deadly disease.The NMC team later came to know that he was also running an international tour agency, yet it never cared to investigate further.TOI investigations revealed the tour operator had deliberately hidden his travel details to allegedly stay away from the subsequent complications of institutional quarantine and testing for coronavirus. His elder brother from Mahesh Nagar and his family too had attempted to distance themselves from the Satranjipura Covid-hit family. The elder brother is politically connected and an influential hotelier.Residing in the same locality, the tour operator had attended the funeral of his uncle-in-law (the Covid-19 victim). It came as a shocker for some community members when his presence at the funeral was attributed as the reason for him testing positive on April 11. The NMC officials ruled out this theory on Monday when they went into the details of his travel history.The tour operator’s family had visited their ailing uncle before his death on April 1. His three sons (aged 23, 20 and 16) and 80-year-old mother’s test results are now awaited.Interestingly, despite the tour operator and his wife testing positive, GMCH officials allegedly turned away the tour operator’s six friends, who had accompanied him to a marriage at Bareilly from March 19 to 23. NMC placed them in institutional quarantine at MLA Hostel.As per officials, the six friends didn’t disclose to GMCH staff that they had travelled to Bareilly, but only said they were his friends.The tour operator had also travelled to Mecca from Feb 4 and Feb 14. The air tickets were checked by officials on Monday. Unlike others from Satranjipura, the containment team is not considering them as suspects.The tour operator was also in regular touch with his elder brother after his Saudi Arabia tour, officials said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/travel-history-revealed-32-quarantined-from-shanti-nagar/articleshow/75149006.cms||Sarfaraz Ahmed
April 15, 2020||Aurangabad||Disinfectant sprayed across city to curb virus spread||Aurangabad: The Aurangabad Municipal Corporation (AMC), acting on the directive of the state government, has started spraying disinfectant in different parts of the city as a precautionary measure against the spread of Covid-19. The civic body is taking the help of Garware Fire Services along with others to carry out the disinfection drive that is slated to cover the entire city."A solution of sodium hypochlorite is being used for the disinfection drive. The chemical has a strong disinfection and deodorising effect along with other desired sanitisation requirements. It is being sprayed at public places, roads and lanes in different parts of the city," an official from Garware Fire Services said.N-6, N-7, N-8, Madhura Nagar, Devgiri Chowk, Bajrang Chowk, Azad Chowk are among the areas that have so far been covered under the sanitisation drive supervised and executed by Chetan Deshpande, Jivrak Choudhari, Mahesh Jogdand and Vinod Tiwari among others. The authorities have been using five tankers, each having a capacity to carry around 4,000 litre of the chemical solution, every day to sanitise the city areas.A civic official said that sodium hypochlorite is available in sufficient quantity to carry out the disinfection drive in different parts of the city. "The solution is primarily used in hospitals and allied health facilities," he said.Meanwhile, the total number of postive cases in the district had reached 24 till Tuesday evening. Aurangabad, which is hailed as the tourism capital of Maharashtra, has highest number of patients of Covid-19 in Aurangabad revenue division, comprising eight districts.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/disinfectant-sprayed-across-city-to-curb-virus-spread/articleshow/75148999.cms||---
April 15, 2020||Nagpur||One more wine shop burgled in city||Nagpur: The series of break-ins into wine shops and bars of city has continued. In the latest incident, a country liquor shop on Kamptee road was targeted by miscreants who stole liquor worth Rs57,114 between March 18 and April 12.This has taken the number of liquor establishments in city targeted by miscreants during the lockdown to four.According to police, owner of the wine shop Sanjay Jawahirani, 42, had closed his shop following the order of collector on March 18. On Sunday, when he went to check the shop, he found the shutter and lock on the front gate broken. The burglars later stole liquor before fleeing the spot.Yashodhara Nagar police have registered a case of burglary in the matter and launched an investigation to identify the accused. They are also scrutinizing CCTV footages from nearby spot to nab the accused.Meanwhile, city police and their rural counterparts have been targeting illegal mahua and country-made liquor factories under their jurisdictions. Cops have arrested several bootleggers. City police have also appointed teams to keep an eye on illegal sale of liquor.Even earlier, burglars stole liquor and cash in lakhs from bars in Jaripatka, Gaddigodam and Nandanvan. Police are investigating if these cases have any common link.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/one-more-wine-shop-burgled-in-city/articleshow/75149012.cms||Viraj Deshpande
April 15, 2020||Mysuru||First community infection of Covid in Mysuru ?||Mysuru: The authorities in Mysuru are worried as a patient with Severe Acute Respiratory Syndrome (SARS) being treated at a private hospital has been shifted to Covid hospital following symptoms of Covid-19. Though local lab has confirmed that the patient is positive, the state health authorities are verifying it and are likely to declare the result on Wednesday. It has sent alarm bells ringing as this could be the first community level infection of novel coronavirus, if re-examination results come positive. Six patients with SARS in Mysuru were examined on Tuesday. Of them one has shown symptoms of coronavirus infection. Health authorities are claiming the patient is a teenager while district officials are maintaining he is a septuagenarian. There were two patients with SARS from the same private hospital. DC Abhiram G Sankar said any case of community infection will be examined by the state surveillance unit. Without travel history or contact of positive patients, contracting the virus is a threat. Admitting that samples of few SARS patients were examined on Tuesday, the DC said the patient, whose test result is being examined, is a senior citizen. Two discharged Two positive patients, who are employees of the pharmaceutical firm in Nanjangud, have been cured and discharged from Covid hospital, bringing down the total tally in the district to 37. For the second successive day, there is a decrease in the number of active Covid cases in Mysuru.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mysuru/first-community-infection-of-covid-in-mysuru-/articleshow/75148044.cms||---
April 15, 2020||Aurangabad||Police chief on streets to boost cops’ morale||Aurangabad: City commissioner of police Chiranjeev Prasad has set a task for himself — to visit the policemen given patrolling duty on the road amid the ongoing lockdown and boost their morale. While visiting the policemen on the field on Tuesday, Prasad lent an ear to their grievances and asked about the practical difficulties being faced by the personnel. He reiterated that the policemen have to compulsorily use the face shields that have been recently issued to them, sanitize every possible article especially before going home. Prasad told TOI, “We are concerned for each and every policeman deployed on the field. We are pressing upon them to follow the necessary precautionary measures, so that they not only protect themsleves but also prevent the chances of carrying the infection home.” He added that through the personal interactions, he was trying to ascertain if all the instructions being issued from the top brass was reaching the last man on the field or not. During his interaction, Prasad emphasized police should not use force against the commoners.Instead, they should register offences if people were found stepping out of their homes without any valid reason. “For fighting an emergency situation like this, the law enforcement agencies as well as the citizens have to be on the same page. We are taking doing everything possible to avoid friction between the police and the citizens,” said Prasad. Terming the recent attack on traffic policemen as unfortunate, the police chief said that while they would deccently deal with the commoners, miscreants should be ready to face legal action.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/police-chief-on-streets-to-boost-cops-morale/articleshow/75149010.cms||Mohammed Akhef
April 15, 2020||Mumbai||Uddhav Thackeray says this is lockdown, not lockup, promises state will take care of migrants||MUMBAI: Hours after migrant workers landed up at Bandra in large numbers, chief minister Uddhav Thackeray appealed to them to stay put and promised that the state would take care of them. “This is a lockdown and not a lockup. Even if you don’t belong to this state and are stuck here, we will take care of you. You are a Hindustani and there is no need for anyone to create panic,” said Thackeray in Hindi in his address. He said there were some rumours that trains have started which caused crowds to gather outside Bandra railway station. Union home minister Amit Shah called Thackeray and expressed concern regarding the incident. Shah reportedly said the administration should be alert to avoid such incidents as these can weaken the fight against coronavirus. Thackeray said he was talking to the Centre regarding the issues of migrants stuck in the state. “Once the lockdown is relaxed, we will make arrangements for you to return home. Until then, we appeal to you to cooperate,” said Thackeray. The CM also warned people against trying to politicize the issue and give it a communal colour. “Any such attempt will not be tolerated in this state,” said Thackeray, adding there are six lakh migrants in relief camps in the state who are given breakfast and two meals every day. Meanwhile, home minister Anil Deshmukh said the state has ordered an investigation into the rumour that trains would restart. Those found guilty of sparking such rumours will be dealt severely, he said. Cabinet minister Aaditya Thackeray said the day trains were to be shut, the state had requested the Centre to run services for 24 hours more so that migrant labourers could return home. He further said the Bandra incident and even the one in Surat was a result of the Union government “not being able to take a call on arranging a way back home” for migrant labourers. They don’t want food or shelter, they want to return home, said Aaditya. “A mutual road map set by Union Govt will largely help migrant labour to reach home from one state to another safely and efficiently. Time and again this issue has been raised with the Centre,” Aaditya tweeted.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/uddhav-says-this-is-lockdown-not-lockup-promises-state-will-take-care-of-migrants/articleshow/75149455.cms||---
April 15, 2020||Nagpur||Slum cordoned off due to mistaken identity||Nagpur: Entire slum in Wadi area was cordoned off for almost 24 hours because of mistaken identity of one of the nine Covid-19 positive patients detected on Monday. The barricading was, however, lifted on Tuesday night after realizing the mistake.The collector’s office had ordered cordoning off Ambedkar Nagar slum situated on Amravati Road in Wadi area on Monday night.The collectorate, which looks after rural parts of the district for containing Covid-19 spread, reportedly received information from one of the testing laboratories about a person being found coronavirus positive. The officials zeroed in on a name as one from the list of 44 persons who were traced and quarantined between April 1 and 5 in connection with Delhi Markaz incident following orders of the ministry of home affairs.The authorities ‘identified’ the positive person from Ambedkar Nagar and immediately the slum was barricaded and policemen deployed.Later, the collector’s office and Nagpur Municipal Corporation (NMC) verified and found that the positive person was in fact one of the relatives of Satranjipura Covid-19 victim and not from Ambedkar Nagar. As both the persons were having same name, it had led to confusion. After realizing the goof on Tuesday, the collectorate ordered the police to remove barricades and police personnel from the slum.In the meanwhile, there was panic in Wadi and adjoining areas throughout the day as several women from the slum work as housemaid, while many sell vegetables and fruits on Amravati Road.As of now, only one of the 56 Covid positive persons from the district is from rural parts, that too from Kamptee.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/slum-cordoned-off-due-to-mistaken-identity/articleshow/75149019.cms||Anjaya Anparthi
April 15, 2020||Ahmedabad||Congress supports extension, demands more relief measures||Gandhinagar: The state unit of the Congress has supported the decision to extend the lockdown until May 3, but said the state government must do much more to alleviate the hardships that people, especially the poor, are facing because of the lockdown.Gujarat Congress president Amit Chavda, said that the Congress supports the decision to extend the lockdown to curb the spread of the novel coronavirus. “However, there is a need to do much more in providing relief to the poor and workers, who have been the worst hit by the lockdown,” Chavda said. He said that farmers have harvested their crops, but are facing several problems in selling their produce because of the lockdown. “Farmers are presently not even getting the what they spent on growing the crop,” Chavda said. The Congress reiterated its demand that all poor people, irrespective of whether they have ration, ought to be given a free supply of rations for the lockdown period. Chavda said that everyone must be given free foodgrain for the months of May and June as well. Congress also demanded relief measures for people from other states, especially workers, who cannot travel back because of the lockdown.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/congress-supports-extension-demands-more-relief-measures/articleshow/75149031.cms||---
April 15, 2020||Nagpur||NMC notifies parts of Itwari as containment zone||Nagpur: The Nagpur Municipal Corporation (NMC) has notified yet another containment zone to control further spread of Covid-19 and identify suspects and high-risk patients in the area. The latest zone covers some parts of Itwari, Dalalpura, Telipura, Lalganj and adjoining areas in ward no. 21 under Satranjipura zone.Municipal commissioner Tukaram Mundhe on Tuesday issued a notification announcing the new containment zone with boundaries at Maskasath chowk, Chakna chowk, Mahajan Kirana, Shivshakti Enclave, Dahibazaar Pool and Rokde building.A couple of relatives of the Satranjipura deceased, who tested positive on Tuesday, reside in Dalalpura. The house of these relatives was considered as epicentre and adjoining areas were covered in the containment zone.The NMC will begin door-to-door survey from Wednesday. People residing in these areas will not be allowed to move outside. Similarly, people from outside areas will be prevented from entering the containment zone.The NMC has excluded Itwari wholesale foodgrains market as it supplies foodgrains to the entire city and many districts in Nagpur division.Satranjipura is already a containment zone since on April 5. Rajiv Gandhi Nagar and adjoining areas on Kamptee Road were notified as containment zone as one of the relatives was from there.The entire Mominpura is containment zone since one of the residents of Takia Deewanshah had tested positive.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/nmc-notifies-parts-of-itwari-as-containment-zone/articleshow/75149028.cms||Anjaya Anparthi
April 15, 2020||Nagpur||6-yr-old negative girl is +ve in second test, family in doubt||Nagpur: With six-year-old granddaughter of Covid-19 victim testing positive on Tuesday, at least her parents worry of her staying without any guardian until the family members recovered has been addressed. But her relatives said they were disappointed with the overall management of the cases.Around eight family members and relatives including a six-month old girl are admitted to Covid-19 ward at Government Medical College and Hospital (GMCH) while eight are in its isolation ward. Except the infant, all are positive patients now.The six-year-old had tested negative last week while the infant has tested negative in both tests. Still, the infant has been kept with her positive patients.A 27-year-old distant relative is the third person, besides both the minors from Satranjipura family to be kept with all positive cases in the same room. The 27-year-old man, a resident of Rajiv Gandhi Nagar, had no contact with any of the Satranjipura high risk persons. His 60-year-old mother and 30-year-old brother tested negative while he tested positive on Monday.One of the positive persons told TOI most of them had no travel history but all have been herded together in GMCH ward or quarantine centres with some high risk relatives during the course of medical investigation.“The high risk ones belong to affluent background. We can’t say much nor officials are paying attention to our concerns. There was also delay in shifting the negative person. The test results of son-in-law of the deceased were kept pending for over seven days. All this while his six-year-old daughter had tested negative but she was not taken away. After her father tested positive, she was tested again and result came positive. How will they or we know how the girl got infected,” asked a family source.A relative said, “We are worried if only our community is deliberately being targeted. We are adjusting in all circumstances and not complaining about anything yet being accused of not cooperating. I am unable to understand this. Only God knows best.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/6-yr-old-negative-girl-is-ve-in-second-test-family-in-doubt/articleshow/75149027.cms||Sarfaraz Ahmed
April 15, 2020||Jaipur||Jaipur: Notice to two private hospitals for not treating patients||JAIPUR: The health department has issued show-cause notice to two private hospitals seeking their reply on not providing medical aid to patients coming from the pandemic-hit Ramganj on Tuesday. On Monday, TOI highlighted in its report titled “Denied treatment, three from Ramganj died of renal failure’ about how these patients were allegedly refused medical aid by the private hospitals fearing the spread of the virus. The department served notices to C K Birla Hospital and Santokba Durlabji Memorial Hospital on why they had refused medical aid to the named patients. To ensure a similar incident should not be repeated, the additional chief secretary Rohit Kumar Singh has directed all private hospitals to treat all patients and should not refer patients casually. “Hospitals found denying treatment to any patient will be penalised under the Rajasthan Epidemic Diseases Act 1957,” said Singh in a statement release to the media on Tuesday. Sources said the department has received several complaints and media report stating that private hospitals are even refusing pregnant women from the Ramganj area.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/notice-to-2-pvt-hosps-for-not-treating-patients/articleshow/75149471.cms||---
April 15, 2020||Mumbai||Allow workers to leave for hometowns: Ashok Chavan||MUMBAI: Public works minister Ashok Chavan on Tuesday said even though the lockdown has been extended till May 3, it is high time the state granted permission to migrants to leave for their hometowns or states. Chavan further suggested that the state must restart small industrial units in green zone districts as well as key projects of water resources and public works departments. “Sooner or later, we will have to work out an action plan to grant permission to migrants to reach their hometowns or states, after medical examination. They should be quarantined in their homes there. We can draft a procedure and set up check points at district borders,” said Chavan at a cabinet sub-committee meeting headed by deputy chief minister Ajit Pawar to revive the economy. As on Tuesday, there were six lakh migrants in 5,000 camps. Chavan said, “In my opinion, we should grant permission to start units in green zone districts with 30% attendance. Simultaneously, our efforts should be towards launching projects of public works and water resources departments so workers can earn daily wage.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/allow-workers-to-leave-for-hometowns-ashok-chavan/articleshow/75149470.cms||---
April 15, 2020||Delhi||Coronavirus lockdown: Cab drivers’ woes multiply||NEW DELHI: Veer Chand Nanda, a resident of Karampura in west Delhi, was hoping for some relaxations from April 15, if not the lifting of the national lockdown. Nanda, who drives a cab for a living, isn’t sure how is he going to sustain his family till May 3. “Work was already affected from the beginning of March and I didn’t have much savings to look after my family when the lockdown came into effect,” the 48-year-old said. “I took a loan and thought of working overtime to pay it back. But with the lockdown extended, I don’t know what I’m going to do. Drivers like me are in very bad shape at the moment.” A major worry for most of the nearly 2.5 lakh drivers working for app-based aggregators, Uber and Ola, in Delhi was the payment of EMIs for their vehicles. The three-month moratorium on such payments offered by banks had brought a collective sigh of relief, but the extension of the lockdown means the cabbies will be out of work for almost three more weeks. “We don’t have a salaried job or can work from home,” mumbled Rajesh Pal, 35. “Our livelihood depends on what we earn every day. Even before the novel coronavirus outbreak, drivers were working up to 14 hours daily to put food on the table. Thankfully, I received some rations from Delhi government, but there are other bills to pay such as my Rs 6,000 rent and water, power and cooking gas bills.” The aggregator companies did extend some financial assistance to the drivers from the driver partner relief funds. But Joginder, 37, who has been driving with Uber for four years, said the money he got gave wasn’t enough. “Our company gave us Rs 3,000 which has gone in buying groceries these past three weeks,” said the father of two children. “My last ride was on March 19 and I have brought in no income since then.” Jitender Arora, who has driven for both Ola and Uber for five years, narrated an equally dismal tale. “Ola paid us Rs 500 a week for the three weeks of closure. Even this we will have to repay later. Uber gave a few of us Rs 3,000. But these measures aren’t enough considering the taxis might not see a huge demand even after the lockdown is lifted,” said Arora. While the Delhi government is providing a one-time financial help of Rs 5,000 to drivers of paratransit vehicles like autorickshaws, only those holding a public service vehicle (PSV) badge are eligible for it — and most cab drivers aren’t. Kamaljeet Gill, president of Sarvodaya Drivers’ Association of Delhi, said, “Nearly 60% of the cab drivers in Delhi don’t have PSV badges because they run their vehicles under the All India Tourist Taxi Permit, which allows them to ply their cabs in NCR too. Also, under court directions, they no longer need a commercial driving licence either.” Gill said the state government should recognise that these cabbies too are in the same predicament as paratransit drivers and offer them monetary relief plus free rations and LPG cylinders. Else, as Sanjay Samrat, president of Delhi Taxi and Tourist Transporters’ Association, warned darkly, “The drivers will die of starvation even if they don’t succumb to the coronavirus.” Outside the city and across NCR, a similar number of Ola and Uber drivers face an equally daunting future. Whatever their savings, they are now depleted and another three weeks of no income is a depressing proposition. Many drivers TOI spoke to said that since they own their own vehicles and are not employees, they don’t have the option of requesting salaries to support themselves. The situation is worse for those who have migrated to NCR and are registered in Gurgaon. “If this state of affairs continues, my only recourse will be to ask for loans from friends and relatives if my wife, two kids and I am to survive,’ said Vivek Kumar, originally from UP’s Unnao. Unlike Delhi government, the administrations in Haryana and UP haven’t announced financial assistance for the affected drivers. An Ola spokesperson, meanwhile, claimed that eligible Ola driver partners and their spouses were covered by insurance for a floater sum of Rs 30,000 under which those infected by the coronavirus can hope to receive a compensation of Rs 1,000 per day for a maximum of 21 days. The cabbies’ plight, however, is more immediate: survival even if they don’t test positive for Covid-19.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/loan-rangers-cab-drivers-woes-multiply/articleshow/75149478.cms||Sidharatha Roy
April 15, 2020||Aurangabad||Leopard dies as rescue op goes ‘awry’ in Paithan||Aurangabad: A young male leopard died within a few hours of being caught in a net by the forest department in Paithan taluka, raising serious doubts over the entire rescue operation. Footage of the rescue operation, which is available with TOI, reveals that in an attempt to overpower the leopard caught in the net, the rescue team members pressed the animal’s chest and other body parts with wooden sticks. It has also been alleged that few members of the rescue team kicked the leopard on its throat after it was caught and taken to Aurangabad. Wildlife expert Kishor Pathak said, “It is common practice to lay a trap for wild animals. If such attempts fail, the animal is tranquillised. None of these protocols were followed. The forest department’s rescue operation was similar to a hunting operation,” he said. Pathak said the forest department did not have a proper cage to transport the rescued animal from Paithan taluka to Aurangabad. Ironically, a health check on the animal after being caught, conducted by a veterinary doctor, found it “fit for release”. The autopsy report of the big cat has attributed “suspected cardiac arrest” as the reason for its death. “The forest department officials involved in the rescue operation must be punished for the death of the young leopard. The authorities at the level of the state and Centre must take serious note of this incident and initiate an inquiry,” said Pathak. When contacted, deputy conservator of forest (Aurangabad range) SP Wadaskar said tranquilliser was not used during the rescue operation, fearing that the animal would become elusive if the target was missed. “We too are shocked over the leopard’s death. The locals informed us about the presence of a leopard in their area. Hence, it was the right time to catch the animal instead of using a cage and prey tactic,” he said. Wadaskar said the big cat was apparently had been starving for some days and might have died due to cardiac arrest after getting rescued. The official ruled out any atrocities on the part of the rescue team. “We have no knowledge of any such act. Of course, attempts were made to overpower the animal as it had attacked a few people during the rescue operation.” Reacting to the demand of action against forest department officials for the death of the leopard, Wadaskar said the viscera sample has been sent for forensic investigation and the final report will throw more light on the incident.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/leopard-dies-as-rescue-op-goes-awry-in-paithan/articleshow/75149030.cms||---
April 15, 2020||Mysuru||Cops flooded with requests for passes||Mysuru: With strict lockdown rules in place, police are having a tough time as they are flooded with requests from people to issue them passes to travel. But most of the requests are not convincing. DCP AN Prakash Gowda said city police are receiving about 250-300 requests daily seeking permission to move out of the city. But majority of the requests are not backed with genuine reasons. “We are giving passes only for medical purposes and essential services,” the IPS officer stated. Similarly, district police claimed they get 400 requests daily but issue only 20-25 passes for convincing reasons. Passes are issued after due verification in cases where people have to attend to medical emergencies and funerals. About 25% of requests are from Mysureans stuck outside the district. Across the state, there have been cases wherein people are making desperate attempts to reach their hometowns and landing in trouble. A bus conductor in Vijayapura, in a bid to avoid police at the checkpost, jumped into a waterbody to swim to his native place. Unfortunately, he drowned and died. Three members from a family from Ballari risked their lives by hiding under a heap of materials in a goods van and tried to cross Chikkamagaluru border. They were caught by police. Similarly, some youths in Hassan, who were travelling in an ambulance, were also caught. Police said entry and exit points at the city and district borders are being monitored closely to check movement of people and vehicles.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mysuru/cops-flooded-with-requests-for-passes/articleshow/75148084.cms||Lawrence Milton
April 15, 2020||Mumbai||Maharashtra: Opposition slams govt for ‘inadequate’ food||MUMBAI: Opposition leaders took to social media on Tuesday to come down heavily on the government as the migrant drama unfolded at Bandra. Opposition leader Devendra Fadnavis squarely blamed the government for not providing adequate food, shelter and other facilities to migrant labourers. “From day one, we have been urging the government to provide foodgrains to all, even those who do not have ration cards. It is unfortunate the state government should shirk its responsibility and blame the Centre. The migrants at Bandra were demanding food or that they be sent back home. The fight against Covid-19 is not a political battle,” he said. BJP MLA from Konkan, Nitesh Rane said, “What was seen in Bandra today, tomorrow people from Konkan are likely to do the same.” BJP’s Kirit Somaiya said what happened in Bandra was serious and the government must take note of it.  Congress spokesperson Sachin Sawant retorted on Twitter: “Biggest problem for country is that we have irresponsible and insensitive leaders like @KiritSomaiya who can think of conspiracy angle during crisis. Shld we say same for #Surat or Delhi incidents? Problem of migrants need to be understood with empathy which #bjp doesn’t hv. #Bandra.” Bandra MLA Ashish Shelar said, “If trains are restarted now, the entire purpose of the lockdown would be defeated.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/oppn-slams-govt-for-inadequate-food/articleshow/75149473.cms||---
April 15, 2020||Nagpur||With 4 more +ve, Buldhana cases 2nd highest in Vidarbha||Nagpur: Four persons — three from Malkapur and one from Buldhana — tested positive at Akola GMCH lab on Tuesday taking the total number of novel coronavirus (Covid-19) cases in Buldhana district to 21, second highest in Vidarbha after Nagpur.“Four reports of the high-risk contacts of the previously-detected Covid-19 positive patients have turned out to be positive. This takes the total number of positive patients in Buldhana to 21, including one deceased,” said Suman Rawat Chandra, district collector of Buldhana.Apart from Buldhana and Nagpur, no other part of Vidarbha reported any new case of Covid-19 on Tuesday.Yavatmal, having 12 coronavirus cases till date, is showing improvement as only two new admissions were reported on Tuesday. Total 25 persons placed in the isolation wards were discharged, leaving 131 inmates. During the last 48 hours, 56 persons have been discharged and they have been sent to home quarantine for 14 days. Similarly, during the last 48 hours, 92 samples from Yavatmal have tested negative for the infection. Chandrapur, Bhandara and Wardha continued to be Covid-19-free districts till date. All the three districts are in green zone, but will continue to observe lockdown. As per latest figures, total 50 samples from Chandrapur have been tested so far and 32 of them have tested negative. Eighteen results are awaited.Gondia, where only one Covid-19 patient was detected on March 26, has not reported any new case till date. The only patient in Gondia, a 23-year-old youth has recovered completely and he was discharged on Sunday. Now, he is in home quarantine for 14 days. Total 133 persons from Gondia were tested for Covid-19, out of them 122 have been tested negative and 11 reports are still to come. Even Akola, where 13 patients have been admitted in the GMCH, has not reported any new patient in the last three days. On April 9, seven residents of Patur village near Akola were found positive. They had visited Delhi for a religious event. District administration has sealed the areas where these positive patients used to live.Total 40 close contacts of these patients were checked. All of them tested negative. District administration informed that total 239 samples from Akola have been tested till date. Reports of 179 of them have been received as of now. Total 166 are negative while 13 tested positive.Amravati also has five cases as on date, including one death. No addition was reported in the last three days here also. District administration informed that total 414 samples have been tested from Amravati till date and 300 of them have tested negative. Reports of 89 samples are awaited, while 20 samples have been rejected.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/with-4-more-ve-buldhana-cases-2nd-highest-in-vidarbha/articleshow/75149037.cms||---
April 15, 2020||Ajmer||3,000 litre illegal country liquor destroyed in Ajmer||AJMER: Police along with the team of excise department officials raided Shero Ka Bala village in Taragarh tehsil near Jawaja on Tuesday and destroyed 3,000 litres of illicit liquor which were sealed in drums and hidden in a lake. No villager came forward to claim those drums. “They hid the drums inside the lake so that no one could find it,” Jawaja SHO KP Singh said. Folllowing the lockdown, there have been more than 25 cases registered in the district related to booze smuggling or preparing illicit liquor. On Monday, an ASI of Kaserganj was suspended for helping a shopkeeper smuggle liquor from his shop. On Monday night, one Balveer Singh (25) of Jawaja was arrested with 30 litres of illegal liquor. Though police denied allegations that alcohol was being sold in the black market, it said action is being taken against people for selling it illegally.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ajmer/3k-litre-illegally-made-country-liquor-destroyed-in-ajmer/articleshow/75149480.cms||---
April 15, 2020||Delhi||From patrolling to blocking exits, RWAs ready to enforce lockdown in Delhi||NEW DELHI: Following Prime Minister Narenda Modi’s call to strictly ensure the lockdown for the next one week, many residents welfare associations (RWAs) in Delhi have proposed to introduce surveillance steps such as community patrols, introduction of passes, and regulated movement by blocking entry/exit points to the societies. The Narmada Apartments RWA in south Delhi’s Alaknanda, among the first few societies to restrict entry of outsiders in the wake of the novel coronavirus crisis, is planning to get e-passes issued for its garbage collectors. “We are trying to help unwell elderly residents meet their children living in other NCR areas with the help of our MLA,” said RWA member Sulbha Gupta. In west Delhi’s Maya Vihar, the RWA is planning to introduce community volunteers at its entry points to prevent unnecessary movement. “Community patrolling was carried out in villages in old days and we will revive it here,” RWA president S P Mudgil said. In D block, Khajan Basti, the entry and exit points may be voluntarily sealed, said Hemant Kumar of the local RWA. As soon as the PM’s speech was made, the Greater Kailash II RWA circulated a message from the Chittaranjan Park SHO that warned about legal action for wilful disobedience of the lockdown norms. “The message was aimed at people who are still going for jogging. They didn’t stop even after we got the parks closed,” said RWA president Sanjay Rana. The association has started some online activities to keep people, especially the elderly, engaged at home. The GK I RWAs want government to install sanitisation tunnels at major entry\exit points and markets. “By and large our residents are staying inside,” E block RWA member Rajiv Kakria said. Jasbir Chaddha, a member of the United Residents Joint Action, said, “We have come out with a guideline of does and don’ts for RWAs, but ultimately people will have to self-regulate to defeat this virus.” The RWAs inside containment zones are making all efforts to help police and the local administration maintain law and order. “The entrance to our block was sealed as soon as the first case was reported in March. I have told many people calling me that police will not open the gate,” said Sanjay Bhardwaj, president of Dilshad Garden’s L block RWA.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/from-patrolling-to-blocking-exits-rwas-ready-to-enforce-lockdown/articleshow/75149502.cms||Paras Singh
April 15, 2020||Delhi||Delhi CM pleads with migrants to stay put||NEW DELHI: Soon after getting the news of migrant workers flooding Bandra station in Mumbai demanding public transport to leave the city, chief minister Arvind Kejriwal on Tuesday appealed to daily wage labourers to not fall for rumours and stay put wherever they are in Delhi. The authorities came to know in the evening that rumours were being spread that DTC buses would be made available for labourers to go to the Delhi-UP border. Subsequently, action was taken by officials to ensure that the migrants didn’t come out of their homes. Urging everyone to follow the lockdown till May 3, Kejriwal appealed to people not to fall for rumours and stay where they are to avoid being infected by novel coronavirus. He also assured that Delhi government would fulfill all their requirements. In a video released on social media, Kejriwal appealed: “I know that people are facing a lot of difficulties, but it is for our own good as well as our families. Please do not believe in rumours. I know that a lot of people living in Delhi belong to other states and want to go back to their homes. I want to request you to please stay till May 3. Otherwise, it will create chaos across the entire nation.” “I want to assure you that Delhi government is there for you. We will fulfill all your food and medical requirements. We are distributing ration and providing food to lakhs of people. We will deliver whatever you need to your house. Please stay inside,” the CM added in the video. Kejriwal warned that people will try to spread rumours. “They may con you by promising help in reaching your hometowns. I want to repeat that no bus of DTC or any other government is functional right now. If you step out with this hope, you will create a huge crisis for you and your family,” he added. Days after the first phase of the lockdown was announced, thousands of migrant workers had gathered at Anand Vihar ISBT hoping to catch a bus home. A repeat of the incident would have destroyed all gains the government has made in the fight against Covid-19. The district administrations are keeping a close watch on the movement of migrant labourers, while also ensuring that they don’t face shortage of cooked food or dry rations.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/kejriwal-pleads-with-migrants-to-stay-put/articleshow/75149046.cms||AlokKNMishra
April 15, 2020||Lucknow||High-risk Aminabad medicine market shut indefinitely||LUCKNOW: Aminabad wholesale medicine market will remain closed from Wednesday till further orders. However, to maintain the flow of medicine supply to retailers so that there is no crisis, distributors will shift operation to Transportnagar where most medicine godowns and warehouses are located. The decision was taken by the district administration following a meeting with chemist and pharmacist associations after a locality in Nazirabad, which is close to Aminabad medicine market, was declared a Covid-19 hotspot. A TOI reality check had found that the risk ofCovid-19 infection spreading was high in the market because social distancing was not being followed there. Social distancing norms are also being flouted blatantly in the wholesale vegetable and fruit market on Sitapur Road. Additional district magistrate, trans-Gomti, Vishwa Bhushan Mishra said: “Extra trucks will be provided to supply medicines from Transportnagar to retailers”. Regarding the wholesale vegetable market, he said that police force will be deployed to ensure social distancing.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/high-risk-aminabad-medicine-market-shut-indefinitely/articleshow/75149491.cms||---
April 15, 2020||Mangaluru||ASHA workers on Covid-19 duty in DK continue to be under constant threat||Mangaluru: Two weeks ago, 48-year-old ASHA worker Tulasi was manhandled and threatened while inquiring about the health status of home-quarantined people in Amtady. She is not alone; several Accredited Social Health Activists (ASHA) in Dakshina Kannada continue to be under constant threat while carrying out duties in the fight to contain Covid-19. So far, the district has registered three such cases. These unsung heroes, who get a paltry pay, put their health at risk while visiting remote villages for surveillance work. Yet, they are humiliated abused, assaulted and threatened. An official said: “ASHA workers visit each household and conduct survey in cities, towns and remote villages. They collect information about people suffering from fever, cold, headache, sore throat or any other symptoms related to coronavirus. They also upload the collected information online through a mobile application and inform officials about individuals needing urgent medical attention.” Based on their survey, higher officials take further decisions. “However, it is sad that people have not recognised their sacrifice,” the official added. While a few such incidents are reported, several attacks go unreported, said a source. An ASHA worker said her family is dissuading her from visiting households for field surveillance over fears of infection. “Worried about infection, my family members have been asking me to stop going to field visits, but I have convinced them to allow me to work. Our help is crucial to government to contain the spread of Covid-19,” she said. ***** Quote While everyone is staying home during the lockdown, they (ASHA workers) move around to collect information. We must respect their sacrifices and not obstruct them from discharging their duties Dr Ramachandra Bayari, DHO, DK ****** Timeline Attacks on ASHA workers April 2: ASHA worker abused in Kariyangala April 3: Bantwal Town police book Marappa Poojary and Umesh, residents of Amtady, for threatening an ASHA worker April 11: Police book Ismail, 45, and Ashraf, 32, residents of Malluru Badriya Nagar, for obstructing and threatening to kill an ASHA worker. ******************************* 2nd story/box Anganwadi worker assaulted by youths TNN Davanagere: An anganwadi worker in Bidaralli tanda in Davanagere district was allegedly assaulted by youths while collecting information about the health condition of people in the neighbourhood. Shashikala Bayi has been admitted to Honnali taluk government hospital. According to her complaint, while on duty two days ago she spotted a group of youths wandering the streets and asked them to stay at home. Enraged, they assaulted her and tore her clothes before fleeing the spot. Honnali circle inspector Devaraj TV said six people have been booked and will be arrested soon. ******************** 3rd story/box PDO attacked by mob while conducting awareness drive Times News Network Bagalkot: A panchayat development officer (PDO) was assaulted by a mob while conducting a coronavirus awareness drive at Mudhol taluk on Tuesday. Vijayakumar, a PDO at the Dadanatti gram panchayat, was attacked by a group led by Ravi Chichakhandi while visiting households and briefing them about the precautionary measures to be taken against the pandemic. “Mudhol police has booked a case and Ravi Chichakhandi has been arrested. Investigation is on,” said SP Lokesh Jagalasar.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mangaluru/asha-workers-on-covid-19-duty-in-dk-continue-to-be-under-constant-threat/articleshow/75147080.cms||Kevin Mendonsa
April 15, 2020||Aurangabad||Resident doctor at GMCH cheated of Rs 4.21 lakh||Aurangabad: A resident doctor of the Government Medical College and Hospital (GMCH) fell victim to tele-phishers when an unidentified suspect contacted her by claiming to be a representative of a bank and managed to cheat her of Rs 4.21 lakh. Police said Nidhi Chitravanshi, a 28-year-old from Borivali (West) in Mumbai who is pursuing her final year of postgraduation in anesthesiology, lodged a complaint on April 7. In the complaint, she said that she had received a call from an unidentified suspect claiming to be a representative of the bank in which she has a savings account. The suspect said that the bank had to call her as emails sent to her did not evoke any response. The suspect told Chitravanshi that she will have to go through a verification process to ensure that her debit card is not blocked. She first refused to entertain the suspect, but he told her that her debit card is being blocked and to unlock it, she will have to visit the branch where her account is. After taking her debit card details, the suspect asked for the CVV as well as OTP number. Chitravanshi got suspicious. The suspect sought her consent to block her debit card.Police said that the woman medico, probably to avoid stepping out during the lockdown, ended up sharing the CVV and the OTP number. Soon, a series of transactions were carried from her account, leaving her poorer by Rs 4.21 lakh. On April 8, the medico reached out to the bank authorities and got the details of the transactions. Begumpura police station inspector Sachin Sanap said the suspect has been booked on the charges of cheating and has also been slapped with sections of the IT Act.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/resident-doctor-at-gmch-cheated-of-rs-4-21-lakh/articleshow/75149039.cms||Mohammed Akhef
April 15, 2020||Vadodara||Health supervisor tests positive in Dahod||Vadodara: A health supervisor of a government quarantine centre in railway hospital in Dahod tested positive for Covid-19 on Tuesday. The supervisor had come in contact with a nine-year-old girl who had tested positive last week when she and her family returned from Indore. The family had come to Dahod for the burial of a man who had passed away in Indore that is facing a Covid-19 onslaught. The health supervisor had been kept in quarantine along with others as a precautionary measure and the samples of these persons were tested. The second person to test positive was a youth from Bhilva village in Garbada taluka. He had a travel history to Rajasthan. He was first taken to a private hospital and his samples were later collected.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/health-supervisor-tests-positive-in-dahod/articleshow/75148430.cms||---
April 15, 2020||Hyderabad||Telangana: Five days on, no health survey in Chandanagar zone||HYDERBAD: Five days ago a gated community in Chandanagar circle was declared as a containment zone, but health officials are yet to carry out the door-to-door survey there to find out if any person is exhibiting Covid-19 symptoms. Residents, who are locked up in the building which houses 90 families, said that no one has visited them to enquire about their health. “Nobody has come to check on us until now. We are locked in this building and many elderly people and children are staying here. What if someone has developed symptoms,” questioned a resident. Interestingly, the block in which a coronavirus positive patient resides, was shut down 10 days after the patient recovered and was discharged from hospital. “My wife tested positive on March 24 and was discharged on April 4. I don’t understand why they have declared it as a containment zone now. People were using lifts and common areas until Friday,” said a resident adding that they have neither informed about why the building is in lockdown now nor when it will be reopened. While officials were informed soon after a resident tested positive, Sai Krishna, general secretary of the gated community said that they did not even bother to disinfect the building after that. There are more than 900 families living within the community. “They just came and sprayed disinfectant on roads. Citing the lack of personal protective equipment they did not even step inside the building. We, the management committee of the gated community, brought disinfectants and got the block cleaned. With officials not locking it down, we requested families in the block to not come out and got essentials delivered to their doorsteps,” said Krishna adding that it is shocking to see officials reacting almost three weeks later. GHMC officials said that the door to door survey to find symptomatic patients in the containment zones will most likely begin from Wednesday. “The health department has shared details with us today. Most likely, from early hours of Wednesday, they will start the survey to find out if anyone have developed any symptoms and this exercise will be carried out every day,” Sudhamsh N, deputy commissioner, Chandanagar circle, GHMC. Residents staying in colonies declared as Containment Zone in Chandanagar circle said there is no problem when it comes to supply of essentials as they have been provided with contact details of personnel from GHMC, who will be available to procure groceries and medicines. However, the movement of residents in these colonies is not completely restricted, except in core containment zones — lane or building in which a positive case has been detected — as many were seen venturing out of their colonies under one pretext or the other.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/5-days-on-no-health-survey-in-chandanagar-zone/articleshow/75149108.cms||Nirupa Vatyam
April 15, 2020||Agra||With 38 positive cases, Agra’s two private hospitals, one clinic emerge as major hotspots||AGRA: With just 12 cases in March, the number of Covid-19 patients jumped to 142 in Agra until Monday, making it the worst affected district in Uttar Pradesh. Besides, cases related to those who attended the Tablighi Jamaat event in Delhi’s Nizamuddin and their contacts, three private medical centres in the district have emerged as major source of coronavirus infection in Agra. A total of 38 cases linked to two private hospitals and a clinic have surfaced in the district. These include 23 cases of a private hospital on national highway 2, nine cases linked to a private clinic in Ghatiya Azam Khan locality and six cases linked to a private hospital in Rakabganj locality. The police and health department officials have sealed areas in the vicinity of these centres. Besides, all the contacts of the staffers and patients of these centres are being traced and screened. On Tuesday, over 100 staffers and patients of the private hospital on the national highway two were shifted to three different institutional quarantine facilities. The district administration has decided to use the hospital as an isolation centre for treatment of the infected patients. The district administration has not counted the owner of a private hospital in the Rakabganj locality where six corona positive cases have surfaced, and his son. They are both under treatment at a private hospital in Gurgaon. The nine positive cases related to the private clinic in Ghatiya locality include a senior doctor, who is the owner of the clinic. The compounder of the clinic, two patients of the hospital and their five family members have also tested Covid-19 positive. Besides the private hospitals, 3 health staffers serving at the isolation ward of the SN Medical College have also tested positive. These include a resident doctor, a junior doctor and a ward boy. Earlier, a doctor at Saniya block community health centre had also tested positive. So far, three Covid-19 positive patients have died in the district. On Monday evening, a 45-year-old woman died at the private hospital on NH-2. A 55-year-old women had also died in the same hospital on Sunday. On April 8, a 76-year old women had died at the SN Medical College. However, the district administration claims that the deaths were due to other health problems the patients were suffering. District magistrate Prabhu N Singh said, “The spread of coronavirus from two private hospitals and a clinic in the city has emerged as a major challenge. We are taking all possible steps to ensure community spread does not take place in Agra. Massive sampling has been initiated. Police and health department teams are working to trace each of the contacts of the coronavirus positive people related to these centres. We will be sending all the suspected cases to the institutional quarantine.” Chief medical officer Mukesh Kumar Vats said, “We are collecting samples of all the patients and staffers of the three centres. Their family members are being checked by a team of doctors. Some of the patients at these centres are residents of the neighbouring districts. We are coordinating with the local authorities to locate them. If any new coronavirus hotspot does not emerge in the district, the situation will be contained within the next three weeks. The extension of lockdown till May 3 will significantly help in stopping the spread.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/agra/with-38-positive-cases-agras-2-pvt-hospitals-a-clinic-emerge-as-major-hotspots/articleshow/75148124.cms||Deepak Lavania
April 15, 2020||Agra||Agra: Samples of 2 women, who died of multiple ailments, test corona positive||AGRA: Samples of two women, who died of multiple medical conditions on Sunday and Monday respectively, tested positive for novel coronavirus on Tuesday. Both were admitted in a private hospital on national highway 2 in Agra, which has reported maximum Covid-19 cases. One of the woman, 55, who hailed from Shikohabad and was admitted at the hospital since April 7, took her last breath on Sunday. She was having lung cancer with kidney failure, both leading to decreased immunity and superinfection with covid-19. The other woman, 45, who hailed from Farrukhabad and was admitted in the hospital on April 3, was having large intracerebral haemorrhage leading to raised intracranial tension (growing pressure inside a person’s skull) which required ventilator support, but was found covid-19 positive too. They were both cremated in Agra in the presence of a few of their relatives, health workers and local police. Chief medical officer Dr Mukesh Kumar Vats said, “The women were having multiple medical conditions, which led to their death, but they both tested coronavirus positive too. We have quarantined their family members, and have also collected their samples." District magistrate Prabhu N Singh said, “Covid-19 infection was not the reason for the two women’s death. In the case of the first woman, she was suffering from lung cancer which has a very high mortality rate, and a renal failure further increased the chances of her death. The second woman, who was having large intracerebral haemorrhage, assigning it to coronavirus again is not justified.”Earlier, a 76-year-old woman, who died at S N Medical College, had also tested positive for Covid-19. Her grandson had returned from Netherlands on March 15.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/agra/samples-of-2-women-who-died-of-multiple-ailments-test-corona-positive/articleshow/75148113.cms||---
April 15, 2020||Hubballi||P-162 visited Kalaburagi, Vijayapura, Hubballi||Dharwad: The travel history of P-162, who hails from Bagalkot district, shows that he travelled to Kalaburagi, Vijayapura and Hubballi. The investigation by authorities revealed that he left Kalaburagi at 4pm on March 16 by a bus with registration number KA 32, F-2284 and reached Vijayapura the same evening. At 8pm, he left Vijayapura for Hubballi by a KSRTC bus (KA 29, F-1531) belonging to the Bilagi depot. Dharwad deputy commissioner Deepa has asked people who travelled in these buses on the said day to contact Covid-19 helpline 104 or 1077, give their details and get themselves checked at the nearest taluk or district hospital.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hubballi/p-162-visited-kalaburagi-vijayapura-hubballi/articleshow/75148153.cms||---
April 15, 2020||Lucknow||Times Group launches culinary campaign||With the nation in lockdown and everyone at home, the kitchen has emerged as the focal point for households. People are re-discovering their passion for home-made food and experiments in the kitchen are on the rise. To give a boost to culniary skills, Times Group proposes to start an initiative offering its readers an opportunity to send recipes of home-made food along with a photo of their family enjoying the dish. The best among these entries would be handpicked by MasterChef Pankaj Bhadouria and be published in print and digital platforms. Every participant will get a certificate for participation. Pankaj is India’s first MasterChef, a TEDx speaker, author of the first official MasterChef Cookbook and host of several popular TV shows. She would be hosting the Times Group's culinary campaign. For food enthusiasts, getting a chance to be published and appreciated for their culinary prowess by TOI is no small a feat. It doesn’t just present a sense of achievement, but is also an opportunity for amateur culinary experts to explore their innovative skills.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/times-group-launches-culinary-campaign/articleshow/75149510.cms||---
April 15, 2020||Ahmedabad||Meningitis outbreak forced to close the British district||Ahmedabad: A major outbreak of a disease, apprehension of spread among the authorities and citizens alike, discussions to arrest its spread and finally restricting the movement of the citizens – the description reads like Covid-19 but in fact, it was the highlight of 1936 outbreak of meningitis in British-era Kaira district which consists of Kheda and Anand districts of Gujarat today. Pundrik Vyas, a resident of Gulbai Tekra, mentions that his father Krishnashankar A Vyas was an assistant collector during the British era when the outbreak took place. His administrative years are chronicled in book ‘Kalyug na Karmayogi,’ he mentioned. KA Vyas later became a collector in British administration and later served in the erstwhile Bombay state. “In summer of 1936, the outbreak of meningococcal was reported and one of the biggest signs of the infection was fever which affected a person’s brain and often resulted in death. My father mentions that it was a tough call for the administration to ensure that the outbreak is contained. They held several meetings with the nagarpalika president Somabhai Shah,” said Vyas, adding that the biggest contention was the major step of ‘lockdown.’ Finally, a major meeting of all the stakeholders was convened and Vyas put forth the proposal that all the human contact is restricted including cancellation of the central examination for matriculation which could have affected hundreds of students. Many were not in favour of such a drastic step and argued that the fears are unfounded, and it would affect the region adversely. “But the majority prevailed including the opinion of government surgeons, doctors and administrators. The biography mentions that the railway station was closed down and so did temples, schools and educational institutes. Finally the outbreak subsided and life resumed with the lessons on public health and safety,” said Vyas. He said that the incident about eight decades ago rings true today with what we are experiencing in areas such as Ahmedabad with high number of cases.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/meningitis-outbreak-forced-to-close-the-british-district/articleshow/75149063.cms||Parth Shastri
April 15, 2020||Aurangabad||Railways to refund passengers for cancellation of train services||Aurangabad: Announcing cancellation of all passenger train services till May 3 in view of the extended coronavirus-related lockdown, the Indian Railways has also suspended advance reservations, including e-tickets till further notice. “Passengers will get full refund for reservations made for the trains that have been cancelled or are yet to be cancelled,” railway authorities said, adding that the facility of online cancellation will remain functional.“In continuation to the measures taken in the wake of Covid-19 lockdown, it has been decided that all passenger train services on Indian Railways, including premium trains, mail/express trains, passenger trains and suburban trains among other services shall continue to remain cancelled till May 3,” Ch Rakesh, chief public relations officer of South Central Railway (SCR), said.“To ensure supply of essential goods to various parts of the country, movement of goods and parcel trains will continue,” he added.SCR authorities said all ticket counters for bookings, including Unreserved Ticketing System (UTS) and Passenger Reservation System (PRS), will remain suspended till further orders.“With regard to refund for e-tickets, the money would be automatically remitted inot the bank account of the customers. For those who have booked across the counters, refund can be taken upto 3 months from the date of journey,” Rakesh said.Meanwhile, citing national level data, SCR authorities said Indian Railways has transported 36,724 wagons of grains, 861 wagons of sugar, 1,753 wagons of salt, 606 wagons/tanks of edible oil and 14,317 wagons of fertilizers from April 1 to April 12.“A total of 63 routes have been notified and 171 time-tabled trains are being run on these routes for transporting perishable commodities including fruits, vegetable, milk and dairy products,” Rakesh said.Trains are being run even on those routes where demand is less, so that no part of the country remains unconnected during the lockdown. "Close coordination is being maintained with the ministry of chemicals and fertilizers for the movement and availability of fertilizers for the upcoming crop season. A close association is being maintained with the ministry of agriculture in matters of loading grains," Rakesh said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/railways-to-refund-passengers-for-cancellation-of-train-services/articleshow/75149047.cms||---
April 15, 2020||Jaipur||Rajasthan: Liquor shops likely to open in green zones after April 20||JAIPUR: Stranded at various depots of Rajasthan State Beverages Corporation Ltd and Ganganagar Sugar Mills prior to the lockdown started, over 1,000 vehicles loaded with alcohol bottles will be shifted to various warehouses and licenced storing facilities of liquor shops, as per an excise department notification. While the official reason is attributed to fear of theft and high temperatures damaging bottles, sources said it could be that the government has started preparations to opening up liquor shops from April 20 onwards in select areas where lockdown would be lifted. Some retailers said now they are allowed to buy and keep liquor in their shops but they cannot sell it. “Yes, billing has started and we can keep the stock in our licenced shops but we cannot sell until the government gives go ahead,” said the retailers who have got licence for the current year. He said after the government classifies the areas as per the incidence of the infection, then only shops in the green areas will be allowed to open. “We don’t expect many shops in Jaipur given the high number of Covid19 cases,” he added. However, a senior excise department attributed the reasons of shiting the liquor from depots to godowns and shops to the fear of theft, high temperature and freeing the vehicles that come with a cost. “The vehicles are standing for a long time and it has a cost to the department because the companies RSBCL and GSM have to pay the rent. Similarly, there is fear of theft given the fact that liquor is not available now in the market. Also, with temperatures rising, the bottles may get damaged. That’s why we wanted to move the stocks to godowns and also licenced liquor shops. As of now there is no decision to open the shops,” said the official. A couple of states in the country has already opened liquor shops and there is an expectation that after April 20, the shops will be allowed to sell liquor in the areas where lockdown will be lifted. The department;s notification sought permission for the movement of vehicles for transporting the liquor from depots to godowns and liquor shops.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/liquor-shops-like-to-open-in-green-zones-after-april-20/articleshow/75149509.cms||---
April 15, 2020||Agra||Agra first in country to adopt pool testing for Covid-19||AGRA: After clearance from the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR), the state government launched pool testing of the samples of suspected coronavirus infected people in Agra, where the maximum number of cases have been detected in UP. While the state is the first in the country to adopt the technique, the method is being successfully used in Israel and Germany. Chief medical officer of Agra district, Dr Mukesh Kumar Vats, said, “The method involves mixing of several samples to create a large or super sample and putting them up for test in one go instead of testing every single sample one at a time. If the result is negative, then all persons in the group will be declared negative to coronavirus. But if the sample tests positive, every single person in the batch will be tested separately. It will save much time and effort.” On Tuesday, a joint team of the district hospital and SN Medical College collected 100 samples in Fatehpur Sikri block, where 14 Covid-19 positive cases had surfaced on Monday. District magistrate Prabhu N Singh said, “Each day, samples of at least 100 people will be taken for pool testing. Out of these, 20 super samples comprising swabs of five people in a batch will be tested by the health department team. They will be sent in a special triple layer packing to King George's Medical University in Lucknow for testing. “The method will speed up testing which is crucial to contain coronavirus pandemic,” the DM said. The pool testing technique is not new. It was widely used in the US to screen patients of syphilis during the Second World War.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/agra/agra-first-in-country-to-adopt-pool-testing-for-covid-19/articleshow/75148146.cms||Deepak Lavania
April 15, 2020||Surat||Surat initiates biggest food distribution task in state||Surat: Along with battling the Covid-19 pandemic, the Surat Municipal Corporation (SMC) has been saddled with a colossal responsibility of feeding lakhs of people that include huge population of migrant and jobless workers who are adamant on returning to their native states. SMC officials said that on an average, they are feeding nearly 5.5 lakh people twice a day with the help of non-government organizations (NGOs). This is touted to be the biggest relief operation in the state. The lockdown and resultant closure of textile industries, the mainstay of Surat, which is heavily dependent on migrant workers, has left their nerves frayed. "We are trying to ensure that no poor in the city sleeps hungry. This required coordinated approach to humanitarian relief which is essential in providing assistance quickly and efficiently to those in need and affected. With this thought process and commitment towards the welfare of the people, we have taken various initiatives to ensure the availability of basic necessity food within the city,'' Banchhanidhi Pani, municipal commissioner, Surat, told TOI. The civic body has initiated various services in coordination with in-house departments, building relief camps, converting schools and shelter homes into food distribution centres. "A major chunk of the people whom SMC is providing food is migrant labourers. Moreover, we held meeting with industries in Laskana area where migrant workers had protested a few days ago. As many as 33 mess have been started to provide food to labourers during lockdown. Many industrialists have come forward to provide rations to these mess where labourers are fed twice a day,” Pani added. SMC officials say that it is funding Akshaya Patra Foundation which operates in the city and prepares food from its centralized kitchen for one lakh people daily. Moreover, the food packets to oldage and differently abled people are being served at their doorsteps by civic body. As many as 185 charitable and voluntary organizations have joined this Herculean effort of feeding the needy.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/surat-initiates-biggest-food-distribution-task-in-state/articleshow/75130757.cms||Vijaysinh Parmar
April 15, 2020||Delhi||Delhi: Policemen mind the gap in court||NEW DELHI: Cops are maintaining social distance even while producing criminals at courts. Policemen from the Special Cell, who had nabbed a gangster carrying a reward of Rs 1 lakh, escorted him to court maintaining a distance. They created an armed cordon around the man while one of the cops held his hand. The criminal and the policeman wore rubber gloves to avoid skin contact. A mask was also put on the suspect’s face while being produced. Bijender alias Gadgu was an associate of gangster Karambir Kala. Gadgu and Kala’s wife Sweety had been on the run ever since Kala’s arrest. Deputy Commissioner of Police (Special Cell) Sanjeev Yadav said that the team along with the informer laid a trap near Rohna village by cordoning-off the entire area — taking all precautions against Covid-19. “Seeing the police team, Gadgu tried to run away but was chased and caught,” said Yadav. Police said that the whole team, which took part in the operation, had worn gloves and covered their faces. Gadgu said that he and his associate, Manoj, had killed one Kuldeep and was jailed in 2014. After his release, he joined Sandeep and Jagdeep and shot at a person in a land matter in Najafgarh, in order to grab the plot. He was again arrested by the Crime Branch, but came out on bail in 2016. Recently, he was involved in the murder of Sanjay, along with Kala’s wife. Lately, he was also involved in bootlegging during the lockdown. He got liquor sourced from Haryana and sold them at double the price in Delhi. Atleast a dozen cases of murder and extortion were registered against him. Policemen said that even during questioning, Gadgu was kept at a distance from the officers and was produced before a judge keeping a safe distance.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/policemen-mind-the-gap-in-court/articleshow/75149508.cms||---
April 15, 2020||Nagpur||Paralytic +ve Covid-19 patient makes full recovery, discharged||Nagpur: Three more Covid-19 patients— a paralytic man, his wife and son— have been discharged from Government Medical College and Hospital (GMCH) on Tuesday. It may be a rare case of a man having suffered a stroke and making complete recovery from Covid-19.The man (43) had tested positive on March 29. A day later, his wife (42) and younger son (14) also tested positive. His elder son was found negative.The man, a resident of Jaripatka, North Nagpur, had paralytic stroke two days before being tested positive. He was admitted for paralytic stroke first in Jaripatka-based Janata Hospital, examined at Panorama MRI Centre, Shankar Nagar, and then shifted to GMCH. When his positive status became known, Janata Hospital, MRI Centre and a ward of GMCH to shut for three days. All medical staff who attended on him were tested and quarantined though all tested negative.Relatives told TOI, “Man had no symptoms during 17 days at GMCH. He responded very well to treatment and tested negative twice,” they said.The man got infected from his younger brother who was working as assistant in the shop of Khamla businessman who had tested positive on March 25. Businessman and his manager had gone to New Delhi for purchasing goods for his shop and got infected.Manager, his daughter, and assistant, and his daughter are undergoing treatment at IGGMCH. Manager and assistant had tested negative on 14th and 15th day but daughters were still found positive. Samples of two girls were taken again and reports are awaited.A 55-year-old lawyer who is also a Iskcon member from Central Nagpur had tested positive on March 29. He is being treated at IGGMCH. His test report is awaited for last three days delaying his discharge.The total number of discharged persons from the city now stands at 11 out of total positive cases of 56.The 59-year old mother of Khamla businessman had diabetes and high blood pressure but made full recovery. Businessman too had diabetes but recovered.Corporator from Jaripatka Virendra Kukreja, also chairman NMC Health Consultative Committee said, "The paralytic man’s recovery is a positive sign. All should stay at home to control Covid-19. Those having any symptom should come forward and get tested. Patients can recover if they get treatment from initial stage.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/paralytic-ve-covid-19-patient-makes-full-recovery-discharged/articleshow/75149054.cms||Anjaya Anparthi
April 15, 2020||Lucknow||KGMU doctors, staff in contact with Covid patient test negative||LUCKNOW: KGMU authorities heaved a sigh of relief after 20 of its healthcare staff members, including three doctors, who had come in contact with a 64-year-old Covid-19 patient, tested negative to coronavirus infection on Tuesday. However, a 45-year-old relative of the patient from Nazirabad area has been tested positive. “The patient’s relative has mild flu-like symptoms and has been sent to health centre at Bakshi Ka Talab,” chief medical officer Dr Narendra Agarwal said. The elderly patient, who was suffering from severe respiratory syndrome, was on Saturday brought to the trauma centre where doctors provided him oxygen support before sending him to the triage where suspected Covid-19 patients are admitted. His test report was received on Monday which confirmed coronavirus infection. Subsequently, KGMU put 65 health personnel, including 13 doctors, 40 nurses and ward boys, 10 sanitation workers and two security guards, under quarantine. About 300 family members of all 65 personnel were also asked to isolate themselves at home. KGMU spokesperson Prof Sudhir Singh said protocol was properly followed in handling the case. “Staff members who had come in direct contact with the patient during treatment in emergency ward and medicine unit have tested negative for Covid-19. However, they will still have to spend 14 days in quarantine as a precautionary measure,” said Dr D Himanshu, in charge of infectious diseases unit. “The other 45 people had indirectly come in contact with the patient. This means that they met those who were in direct contact with the patient. As the direct contacts are not infected, all others are safe and will not require quarantine,” said Dr Sandeep Tiwari, a member of KGMU’s Covid-19 task force. Meanwhile, the elderly patient continued to be on ventilator for the second day, though doctors said that he was responding to treatment. “He is still critical but his oxygen requirement has decreased and medication has stabilised blood pressure,” said Dr Himanshu. After the Covid-19 case was detected on Monday, Naya Gaon in Nazirabad which houses about 1,000 people was sealed by the district administration for scanning. Six members of the patient’s family have been quarantined in a hospital at Hussainganj and their test swab test reports are awaited.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/kgmu-docs-staff-in-contact-with-covid-patient-test-ve/articleshow/75149533.cms||---
April 15, 2020||Delhi||Delhi: Mercury soars to season’s highest of 41C, set to rise in next 48 hours||NEW DELHI: Mercury crossed the 41-degree mark in parts of Delhi on Tuesday, with Palam sizzling at a maximum of 41.2 degrees Celsius, the highest so far this season. Safdarjung, Delhi’s base station for weather, also recorded its highest temperature of the season at 39.7 degrees Celsius, Met officials said. Forecasts for the next 48 hours show temperature may spike even further and touch the 40-degree mark at Safdarjung by Thursday. Dust transport might occur during this period, pushing air quality close to the ‘poor’ range’. IMD scientist Kuldeep Srivastava said the maximum temperature is likely to stay around the same range on Wednesday, while it could touch 40 degrees at Safdarjung on Thursday. “We will see the maximum hover between 39 and 40 degrees Celsius in the next two days. We are recording dry and warm winds from the Rajasthan region which is leading to this spike. Clear skies are also pushing the mercury up,” said Srivastava. While Palam recorded a high of 41.2 degrees Celsius, Ayanagar too crossed the 40-degree mark on Tuesday, recording a maximum of 40.4 degrees– four notches above normal. Delhi’s air quality index, meanwhile, was recorded as ‘moderate’ on Tuesday with an overall AQI of 130 – the highest so far this week. A spokesperson from the Ministry of environment, forest and climate change said long-range dust transport and lifting of local dust are likely to raise the AQI further in the next 48 hours. “The SAFAR model suggests that lifting of local Delhi dust will deteriorate AQI further by Wednesday. Though chance for any heavy dust storm is remote, long-range dust transport from the dry arid western region is expected by Wednesday to further deteriorate AQI towards the lower end poor category with lead pollutant as PM10 and not PM2.5. This impact is purely attributed to external natural dust and has nothing to do with local emissions,” said the official. As per IMD, Wednesday may witness a maximum temperature of 39 degrees Celsius, while the minimum is likely to hover around 23 degrees.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/mercury-soars-to-seasons-highest-of-41c-set-to-rise-in-next-48-hours/articleshow/75149065.cms||---
April 15, 2020||Agra||Liquor worth Rs 3 lakh stolen in Aligarh amid lockdown||AGRA: Robbers stuck at a model liquor shop in Aligarh’s Banna Devi area on Monday night and fled with liquor worth Rs 3 lakh and Rs 40,000 cash. According to police, the robbers broke into the shop through the roof and fled with liquor, cash and a digital video recorder. Shop owner Nikhil Agarwal, who was informed about the robbery by unidentified person, said the store was lying shut since the lockdown was imposed on March 22. “There were liquor of various brands stored at the shop, but the robbers took away almost all stock,” he added. An FIR has been registered against unidentified persons under relevant sections of IPC at Bannad Devi police station.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/agra/liquor-worth-rs-3-lakh-stolen-in-aligarh-amid-lockdown/articleshow/75148195.cms||---
April 15, 2020||Madurai||Pvt firm provides rent-free tractors||Madurai: In a bid to help the framers during lockdown, a company named TAFE has come forward to provide rent-free tractors to small and marginal farmers in Ramanathapuram district. Ramanathapuram district collector K Veera Raghava Rao said that the state government is taking steps to protect the livelihood of the farmers during the lockdown period. He said that in addition to this, the government, along with TAFE’s J Farm Services, have come forward to provide rental free tractors to the small and marginal farmers in the district. He said that the J Farm Services would provide rent free tractors for 90 days starting from April 1. The farmers who are willing to avail rental free tractors could register through the Uzhavan mobile application or could contact toll free number 1800-4200-100. He said that the farmers while registering should mention the date and time in which they require the tractors. The farmers could make use of this opportunity for ploughing their land free ahead of commencing cultivation of summer crops in the district, he added. TAFE’s J Farm Services are also providing rental free tractors in other districts in the state. The farmers have commenced ploughing using the rental free tractors at in Melathulukankulam, Achankulam villages in Virudhunagar district. TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/pvt-firm-provides-rent-free-tractors/articleshow/75149517.cms||---
April 15, 2020||Delhi||Net result: Why parents, students alike can’t come up to speed||NEW DELHI: Two online classes and assignments mark Class VI student Anandee Chattopadhyay’s routine for the day. Apart from this, she has also been given projects, but she has decided to handle them on another day. The project requires her to record the work on video and email the clip to the school. “The other work I can do on my own, but this video recording will have to wait. I need the help of my parents,” explained Chattopadhyay. The online tasks and projects being assigned by private schools have put parents in a quandary because they suddenly need to connect their children through internet with their schools and often they don’t know how to procure the materials needed for projects during the lockdown. Read the full story on TOI+ Read AlsoHow kids online classes are putting parents to testParents, students are struggling to come up to speed with schooling on the net||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/net-result-why-parents-students-alike-cant-come-up-to-speed/articleshow/75149514.cms||Shradha Chettri
April 15, 2020||Jaipur||Insure fair price shopkeepers: Min to Centre||Jaipur: Food and civil supply minister Ramesh Chand Meena has asked the Union food and consumer affairs minister Ramvilas Paswan to insure the fair price shopkeepers in the state. He said that fair price shopkeepers are distributing ration by going door-to-door taking risks of infection during lockdown. He demanded that their commission be increased. Meena pointed out that the number of National Food Security scheme beneficiaries in the state was decided based census year 2011, but at present the number of beneficiaries has increased to 5 crores. Therefore, the state should be provided with an additional 35,000 metric tonne wheat to meet the demand of foodgrains. Meena also demanded that Nafed should fix the price of pulses so that the district collector concerned could purchase pulses at the pre-decided price and distribute to the general public. He said the distribution of pulses allotted for April will start from April 30. He sought Rs 101.71 crore as commission and transportation for the allotted wheat and Rs 6.12 crore as commission and transportation for the allotted pulses. Ninety percent of the wheat allotted to the state under Pradhan Mantri Garib Kalyan Yojana for April has been lifted and the distribution of the same will start from April 15. Directions have been issued to all district supply officers in this regard, he said. Food minister said that core committee has been formed at the level of gram panchayat for door-to-door distribution of ration items to the National Food Security Scheme beneficiaries during the period of lockdown in the State. He said that help of labourers is being sought for door-to-door distribution of ration items under Mahatma Gandhi National Rural Employment Guarantee Scheme.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/insure-fair-price-shopkeepers-min-to-centre/articleshow/75149518.cms||---
April 15, 2020||Madurai||Essential items distributed to sanitary workers in Sivaganga||Madurai: Minister for khadi and village industries board G Baskaran distributed essential commodities to cleanliness workers in Sivaganga district.Baskaran said that after the lockdown, several philanthropists have come forward to help the needy people and handed over essential commodities to the district administration officials. He said that the essential commodities which were donated are being handed over to the people belonging to economically weaker sections and also to the cleanliness workers who have been rendering effective service to prevent the spread of Covid-19. The essential commodities which includes five kg of rice, dhal and oil were distributed to 150 cleanliness workers working at Manamadurai town panchayat in the district. Similarly, he also distributed five kg rice and seven kg vegetables to 300 families at Thiruppuvanam in the district.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/essential-items-distributed-to-sanitary-workers-in-sivaganga/articleshow/75149519.cms||---
April 15, 2020||Hyderabad||Healthcare workers must be given adequate security, says PIL in HC||HYDERABAD: Taking a serious view of the recent attack on a doctor by the kin of a Covid-19 patient, the Telangana high court has taken up the cause of doctors, Asha workers and other medical personnel serving in the state. A bench of Chief Justice Raghavendra Singh Chauhan and Justice T Amarnath Goud has converted into a PIL a letter written by advocate PSS Kailash Nath, who highlighted the travails of doctors and medical personnel working under constant fear of attacks and threats from patients and families. The petitioner, in his letter to the CJ, said that doctors were facing the additional burden of protecting themselves against harassment or physical abuse from patients’ families. “These incidents must be curbed and adequate security should be deployed for the safety and security of healthcare professionals in discharging their duties in a secure environment,” he contended. The lawyer said in this crisis time, the doctors and healthcare personnel were slogging, risking their lives. “There are reports that when healthcare workers are visiting the places of the coronavirus-affected persons, they faced physical harm. It is also being reported that police who are also working in the frontlines are not able to deploy adequate number of personnel due to work overload to control movement of people,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/healthcare-workers-must-be-given-adequate-security-says-pil-in-hc/articleshow/75149070.cms||---
April 15, 2020||India||FCI’s ‘excess stock’ comes in handy for govt in Covid battle||NEW DELHI: States, which kick off purchasing wheat and paddy this week, have estimated procurement of another 40 million tonnes this season, as against 35 million tonnes a year ago, which will more than adequately fill up silos where stocks may have depleted due to the government’s decision to provide an additional quota of five kg of grains, free of cost, to 80 crore poor. With some part of the rice procured during the last season yet to enter Food Corporation of India’s warehouses and the fresh procurement, stocks in July may hit 85-90 million tonnes, as against the buffer norms of over 41 million tonnes for that time of the year. In any case, it is the much-criticised “excess stock” of grains, dubbed unmanageable by experts just a few months back, that has come handy as the Centre rolls out one of the biggest ever welfare programmes aimed at ensuring that the poor do not go hungry during the lockdown. “There is no need to worry as the stocks that we have are more than sufficient to meet the requirement in the coming months,” government sources told TOI. At the start of the month, stocks with FCI were estimated at 55.5 million tonnes — over two-and-half times more than that of the stock which the corporation needed to maintain at 21 million tonnes. The buffer norms, which have been in place since the fourth five-year plan, are dynamic and vary depending on the flow of grains. The norms factor in the requirement to supply 5 kg per person under the Food Security Act— assuming a daily intake of 400 grams for a hardworking male in rural areas— and other welfare schemes along with the need to maintain a strategic reserve. So the monthly requirement adds up to around 4.6 million tonnes. The additional requirement of over 4 million tonnes due to the PM Garib Kalyan Ann Yojna (PMGKAY), which is in place for three months, will increase the demand to around 8.5 million. It's time to mask up and stay safe: Join TOI's #MaskIndia campaignAn expert panel which had fixed the buffer had assumed that the government could import grains in case of an emergency, which is not a possibility in the current situation. “Can you imagine what would have been the situation if we had no excess stock? In the three months, about 10 million tonnes of extra rice will be provided to states. This will also help us create some empty space to store the fresh procurement of rice,” said a source. More on Covid-19Coronavirus pandemic: Complete Coverage21-day lockdown: What will stay open and what won'tHow to quarantine yourself at homeTrust the newspaper for your daily verified newsWhile states kick off procurement through mandis, with tokens being handed to farmers in several states to avoid crowds in mandis, FCI has been dispatching record amount of grains to meet the additional requirement. It has transpored more than 1,000 train loads (rakes) carrying about 3 million tonnes of foodgrains during the lockdown period and it has unloaded about 950 rakes carrying about 2.7 million tonnes in various states. Food ministry said on an average FCI has been loading and unloading about three lakh tonnes daily since the start of lockdown, which is almost double its normal average.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/fcis-excess-stock-comes-in-handy-for-govt-in-covid-battle/articleshow/75150021.cms||Dipak K Dash
April 15, 2020||Nagpur||27 Covid-19 cases linked to 1st deceased in Satranjipura||Nagpur: Nine more persons from the city tested positive for Covid-19 on Tuesday, taking the district’s total to 56. All nine are close contacts of the 68-year-old deceased from Satranjipura, the only death registered in the district. Total number of positive persons from this single case has increased to 27, including the deceased, making it probably the second highest figure from a single patient in the country. This single case accounts for 48.21% of all positive cases of the district.Municipal commissioner Tukaram Mundhe confirmed nine positive cases from the city and that all were related to Satranjipura deceased.Nagpur Municipal Corporation records show 58 persons were traced, examined and quarantined between April 6 and 12 after the death of the 68-year-old on April 5. The reports of the deceased came positive a day after his death.Earlier, 17 persons, including deceased’s son, daughter-in-law, unmarried daughter, married daughter with her two children, her husband, and widowed daughter with her three children had tested positive.Reports of 13 persons in this case have been negative as of now. Reports of remaining 18 are still awaited.NMC has declared two more containment zones — Rajiv Gandhi Nagar on Kamptee Road and Dalalpura-Itwari — as couple of positive persons from this case are residents of these areas. Now, NMC has started to also trace close contacts of these persons.Among the nine who tested positive on Tuesday, 6-year-old is daughter of the deceased’s son-in-law. Earlier, son-in-law’s wife (deceased’s daughter) and two children had already tested positive.Also, the son-in-law’s brother and wife have also reportedly tested positive.Deceased’s nephew, who runs a travel agency, tested positive a couple of days ago. His wife also tested positive on Tuesday.Of remaining five positive, one is daughter of one brother of the deceased and one is daughter-in-law of another brother.One is a person from the mosque in the area and a close contact of the deceased. One of the remaining two is a relative of the deceased’s daughter-in-law and one a close contact.NMC is yet to finalize source of infection to the deceased. The family members had ruled out any travel history of the deceased out of the city in last few months.At Mohali in Punjab, 38 persons from one case had tested positive at Jawaharpur village, making it probably the highest in the country so far. All were infected by a member of the village panchayat. The 42-year-old man contracted the virus after interaction with a member of Tablighi Jamaat, who had visited him from New Delhi. Then the panchayat member’s extended family, who all live next to each other, got infected. Of 38 cases in the village, the extended family has 36 cases, including him. The remaining two cases are close neighbours.Mundhe said, “All these positive cases were traced due to containment drive launched by me and my team immediately after the death of the 68-year-old. All positive persons are under hospital or institutional quarantine. Therefore, there is no risk of spreading from these persons. Now, our door-to-door survey to identify any more close contacts or suspected or high-risk patients from the area is underway. Another major advantage is that all have started to get treatment,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/27-covid-19-cases-linked-to-1st-deceased-in-satranjipura/articleshow/75149074.cms||Anjaya Anparthi
April 15, 2020||Ahmedabad||Cops may use force for check-ups: Gujarat DGP||AHMEDABAD: Gujarat DGP Shivanand Jha on Tuesday hinted that cops may use force to ensure medical check-ups to stop the Covid spread. “The government has taken a strong decision to prevent the spread of coronavirus, which includes the imposition of curfew in the Walled City,” said Jha. He said that the police deployment will be increased at places like APMC market, vegetable vending areas, and banks where a large number of people gather. Instructions have been given to cops to take swift action on lockdown violations, said Jha. “We have also decided to use force if needed to ensure medical check-ups,” said Jha. “We have placed people’s interests on the top of our priority list.” He asked people to call the police control room if they witness any unnecessary movement. Jha said that cops should work passionately and with the utmost sincerity and compassion. He said that Gujarat police have registered 51,361 offences in relation to lockdown violations in which 80,010 people have been arrested and 96,924 vehicles detained. He said that 365 cases were registered using drone footage and 70 cases were filed using CCTV footage over the past 24 hours (on Tuesday). Jha said that that police will perform their duty aggressively till the lockdown is in place.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/cops-may-use-force-for-check-ups-dgp/articleshow/75149245.cms||---
April 15, 2020||Jaipur||Can implement lockdown as per local conditions: Rajasthan deputy CM Sachin Pilot||JAIPUR: Deputy chief minister Sachin Pilot while supporting the extension of the lockdown announced by Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Tuesday said increasing incidents of Covid-19 was a matter of concern and social distancing was the only solution to break the chain. But he said the state governments should have been given freedom to impose the lockdown according to local conditions. He said for instance the prevailing condition in the Northeastren states was entirely different from southern states. “The respective state governments thus should be allowed to outline the implementation of the lockdown according to local conditions,” he added. He added that, “We are starting random testing and kits are being imported from outside. The focus is to strengthen the health infrastructure. Provisions for treatment in each district headquarters have been made,” he said. Talking to journalists on Tuesday, he said, “We are doing a lot of sampling and testing unlike many states. So we are getting the real picture.” He said Ramganj area in Jaipur is very congested and social distancing has been not very effective. “But since curfew is imposed, no one is allowed to go inside or come out,” he added. He said the mortality rate is comparatively less and those who take timely treatment recover without any complications. He asked people to get tested and go for treatment without any inhibitions. “I request people to voluntarily come forward undergo testing and screening,” said Pilot.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/state-governments-allowed-freedom-to-implement-lockdown-according-to-local-conditions-pilot/articleshow/75149546.cms||---
April 15, 2020||Madurai||Temporary flower markets in Madurai to be set up at three places||MADURAI: The Madurai district administration has planned to set up temporary flower markets at three places in the city from Wednesday. District collector T G Vinay said that following the announcement of the lockdown for the containment of Covid-19, the flower market, functioning at Mattuthavani was closed. He said that considering the welfare of the farmers who have cultivated flowers and traders, district administration officials have planned to set up temporary flower markets at Arapalayalam bus stand, MGR Race Course Stadium and EVR Nagammaiyar Corporation Girls Higher Secondary School from April 15. These temporary markets would function from 6am to 1pm everyday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/temporary-flower-markets-to-be-set-up-in-three-places/articleshow/75149534.cms||---
April 15, 2020||Madurai||Food safety dept alerts consumers on adulteration||Madurai: Residents have been asked to be wary of adulterated food products in the markets after food safety department officials found a section of traders involved in selling them making use of the prevailing lockdown situation. Officials also reiterated and reassured the residents that essential items are allowed to move freely and adequate stocks are coming into the city. Designated officer for food safety, Madurai district, Dr M Somasundaram said that adulterated jaggery and cooking oil are now being sold and consumers should insist on the quality as adulterated items can spoil the health. “Essence is being added to palm oil and sold as groundnut oil at higher prices. People should buy packaged cooking oil. Similarly, chemicals and white sugar are added into jaggery to provide attractive colour. People should not fall for colour,” an official said. He added that traders have involved in unfair practice of selling substandard products, since there is difficulty in sending samples lifted from them to the laboratory in Chennai. Somasundaram said that based on instructions from the district collector, a team is monitoring the movement of essential commodities into the city. At least 425 tonne of essential items reached the godowns in East Masi Street on Monday night. It includes 75 tonne of pulses, 58 tonne of spices, 42 tonne of rice varieties, 54 tonne of flours, 73 tonne of sugar and 96 tonne of cooking oil. Food safety officers have been deployed to visit every store asking the trader to display price list after the department received numerous complaints against traders of selling products at a higher price. It has also been made mandatory for wholesalers as well. Serious action will be taken against traders who violate price norms, he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/food-safety-dept-alerts-consumers-on-adulteration/articleshow/75149539.cms||---
April 15, 2020||Hubballi||More testing labs needed in Dharwad district||Dharwad: In view of increasing suspected Covid-19 cases and lack of facilities to conduct virology tests, the district administration is making efforts to set up more laboratories and hire laboratory technicians and other experts. Deputy commissioner Deepa Cholan said medical devices and equipment at Karnatak University will be used to conduct tests. The facilities at the Karnatak Institute of DNA Research will also be utilized, she said. Deepa said that more labs and human resources are needed since KIMS is the only testing lab in North Karnataka. Experts say the process of Covid-19 testing involves three phases. In the first phase, RNA is extracted from swab or blood sample by using specific kits and chemicals. The second involves its conversion into Complimentary DNA (C-DNA). In the third, C-DNA is run with the help of Real-Time Polymerase Chain Reaction (RtPCR) machine. It gives amplification only if the result is positive.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hubballi/more-testing-labs-needed-in-dharwad-district/articleshow/75148216.cms||GURURAJ JAMKHANDI
April 15, 2020||Kolkata||Semester delay: Foreign univ dreams hang in balance||KOLKATA: With the country’s educational institutes being shut till June 10 to minimize the risk of the spread of novel coronavirus, several vice-chancellors on Tuesday confirmed the semester-end examinations might be held only in the end of July or beginning of August. This delayed curricular timeline here has left those planning to apply to foreign institutes grappling with anxiety, scared they might miss out on their admissions there . “Students looking to apply in foreign universities after their UG or PG will be able to appear for their sixth semester (UG) or fourth semester (PG) exams beyond the usual schedule. Usually, after securing provisional admissions there, the candidates are required to send original transcripts, including mark sheets, before the courses begin in the Fall session from July or August,” said Sabyasachi Basu Roy Chowdhury, vice-chancellor of Rabindra Bharati University. “Given that the semester-end exams here will be held much later, by the time we will be able to publish results, classes abroad might start.” But education counsellor Nirmal Agarwal seemed to pin his hopes on the fact that many foreign universities might offer more lenient terms and conditions to foreign applicants. He pointed out that education institutes in the US and other countries were observing the rapid global changes taking place. “Several institutions are considering whether to open their Fall session in August or not. The session might be pushed back or students might be allowed to join the course a year later,” he said. “Many foreign universities are more flexible towards foreign nationals. I presume some might allow candidates to begin classes, after which they can submit the final results once they are published.” But Agarwal said those had alteady got an offer, should start communicating with them. “It may make more sense to consider universities that are more flexible,” he added. The VC of another university predicted several European universities would prohibit students from travelling till the pandemic was over. “Some students who have applied to foreign varsities in Europe have been told they are reconsidering their international student admission policy, which is likely to change,” the VC said. “Foreign students might not even be allowed in some colleges as they might be seen as potential virus carriers.” She pointed out future was particularly uncertain in Europe as more restrictions on the immigration process were likely to be imposed.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/semester-delay-foreign-univ-dreams-hang-in-balance/articleshow/75149078.cms||Somdatta Basu
April 15, 2020||Goa||Opening of Goa government offices delayed, decision likely by Monday||PANAJI: Within hours of PM Narendra Modi announcing the extension of the lockdown till May 3 while hinting at some relaxations after April 20, CM Pramod Sawant on Tuesday postponed the opening of government offices saying that a final decision would be taken by April 20. However, officers of all India Service, Goa civil and police services, other Goa general services, heads of departments and officers of equivalent rank, officials of the rank of junior engineer and above in their respective departments have to continue attending regular office duties from Wednesday. “We had announced that government offices would be functional from April 15, but now we are postponing it. The decision on whether to open government offices will be taken before April 20,” Sawant said. The CM said that, in the meanwhile, the state government has initiated steps to revive economic activities in Goa. The decision, he said, was taken following the video conference with Modi on Saturday. “By Wednesday the central government will issue a notification related to relaxation to economic activities and after that the state will take a decision,” Sawant said. Public transport, which was supposed to start from April 20 for ferrying office staff, has also been postponed, he said. With the lockdown being extended, volunteer passes and permissions issued up to April 15 will now be valid till May 3. “Nobody should approach the authorities for new passes or permissions. Travel passes issued to hospitals, industries, etc, will be valid till May 3,” Sawant said. The chief minister also appealed to citizens to follow the guidelines during the lockdown period. The state government offices that were set to become functional from April 15 with bare minimum staff were cleaned and sanitised on Monday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/opening-of-goa-govt-offices-delayed-decision-likely-by-monday/articleshow/75149521.cms||---
April 15, 2020||Delhi||JNU panel suggests ways to make up for lost time||NEW DELHI: Two JNU committees, headed by pro-VC Chintamani, formed to look into the possibilities of conducting exams have made several suggestions, including continuation of online classes till May 15 and cancelling of summer vacations. The committees, in their report submitted to vice-chancellor M Jagadesh Kumar, have asked for semester exams to be conducted online and to hold JNU Entrance Exam viva-voce through video-conferencing. The report also suggested that online classes for BA, MA, MCA, PGD programmes, MSc, MTech & M Phil II semester students should continue till May 15. “Term papers, projects, seminar papers or book review should be made available online, while reading material, including literature, bullet points of lecture should be sent on mails.” However, the evaluation process for both online/offline exams needs to be worked out by the respective course instructors and schools, the report said. “JNU deans and chairpersons are preparing recommendations relevant to their respective schools on the comprehensive mechanism that would be followed to complete the courses, hold exams, and facilitate these guidance and submissions due to Covid-19,” the VC tweeted. The report also acknowledged the trouble faced by students due to poor internet facilities and said, “Students who are unable to take online exams, should be allowed to submit their assignments with a grace period.” For research scholars, submission of dissertations may be extended. Meanwhile, the suggestion to continue with the online classes was opposed by JNUTA, which claimed that, “Even if the lockdown continues for another month, there is a possibility of using the period from mid-or end-May till mid- or end-July, including the summer vacation, for completion of teaching and sessional work.” A workshop will be organised on April 18-19 to help faculty familiarise with the digital platforms.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/jnu-panel-suggests-ways-to-make-up-for-lost-time/articleshow/75149523.cms||Mohammad Ibrar
April 15, 2020||Madurai||Sanitary worker in speciality ward among 18 new cases||Madurai: A 36-year-old man who was working as a sanitary worker in the isolation ward at Government Rajaji Hospital (GRH) tested positive for the novel coronavirus on Tuesday. A total of 18 cases reported during the day took the total in the southern districts to 287.A resident of Mathichiyam, the sanitary worker was an outsourced employee who had been working at the “corona speciality hospital” from April 5, according to health officials. They said all precautions like masks and PPE were properly used and also disposed. “It is an unfortunate situation. Hospital workers who were in contact during the time of his working and family members are under the scanner now,” he added.The only other case in Madurai was a 29-year-old woman from Melamadai. She was the wife of a person who had attended the Delhi conference. However her husband tested negative. A total of 273 samples are currently being processed at Madurai Medical College while results of 134 samples are expected to be out on Wednesday.A 96-year-old COVID-19 positive patient from Dindigul died on Wednesday, making him the oldest person in the state to die of COVID-19. The man succumbed to severe respiratory illness at Karur Government Hospital. He is the fourth person from the southern districts to lose his life in the battle against the deadly virus.Dindigul collector M Vijaya Lakshmi said that 172 persons were tested and nine of them were found positive on Tuesday. All of them contacted the virus from those who had already tested positive. Seven of them were from Dindigul town whereas one each is from Eriyodu and a village near Oddanchatram. No primary positive case was found in recent days.A four-year-old girl from Karaikudi in Sivagangai district tested positive for COVID-19. District collector J Jayakanthan noted that the girl is the granddaughter of a positive patient. “All other family members tested negative. There are no other close contacts as far as this family is concerned. The area has been locked down and health officials will be screening those living there as a precaution,” he said.Jayakanthan also said that all the four COVID-19 positive patients in the district currently undergoing treatment at Sivagangai Medical College Hospital are likely to be discharged by Wednesday since their first tests have returned negative. Three more positive cases took the total to eight in Tenkasi district.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/sanitary-worker-in-speciality-ward-among-18-new-cases/articleshow/75149543.cms||---
April 15, 2020||Bhopal||Another patient who died on April 11, fourth death in MP||BHOPAL: One more person died in Bhopal on Tuesday, taking the death toll due to Covid in the state capital to five. It is the fourth death case in the last four days in the city. Another 16 more people, tested positive for Covid-19 in the state capital. Thus, the city total number of Covid positive cases have gone up to 158. Of these 150 people are said to be in a stable condition. The deceased was 74-year-old died and later tested positive for Covid-19. He died on April 11. Intensive health screening was initiated in Aheer Mohalla in Jehangirbad area, according to district health officials. The locality with dense population has reported two deaths. Both the patients died before being admitted. Health department conducted an intensive screening in the entire zone of about two km which has been declared a hotspot. About 50,000 to 60,000 residents in the area are to be screened, said health officials. “All residents are cooperating with the team. Those with symptoms or who came in contact with the deceased person would be tested for Covid-19,” said a health department official. Covid-19 was also confirmed in a two-year-old girl. The patient is from Shiv Nagar Colony and her mother also tested positive. Laboratory testing of Covid-19 was reported from three Bhopal labs. Nine positive cases were reported from the laboratory in Hamidia hospital, six at BMHRC lab and one patient tested positive at AIIMS Bhopal, a health department bulletin said. *** Covid-19 ‘false positive’ in cancer patients? AIIMS institutes study Three people who tested positive for Covid-19 on Tuesday were admitted to the oncology ward of AIIMS Bhopal. In the same ward, an oncology patient who died after being discharged had tested positive for Covid-19 after death. He was admitted to the ward for three days. After his death, Covid-19 test was conducted and three patients tested positive. Two of the patients in the oncology wing and one has been discharged. Another AIIMS staffer also tested positive, according to health department bulletin. A senior AIIMS Bhopal official said that there could be a possibility that cancer patients could be turning out to be false positive for Covid-19. The corona virus infects body cells through spike (S) proteins binding to the human angiotensin converting enzyme (ACE2). None of the medical staff in the ward have tested positive, he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/another-patient-who-died-on-apr-11-tests-positive/articleshow/75149085.cms||---
April 15, 2020||Kolkata||Teacher arrested for Facebook post on Covid-19 +ve doctor in Kolkata||CHANDERNAGORE: A teacher at a private school in Hooghly’s Serampore was arrested on Tuesday over her Facebook post on the emergency medical officer of Howrah General Hospital, who tested positive for Covid -19 on Sunday. The woman was picked up from her home at Hooghly’s Konnagar on Tuesday by cops from Uttarpara police station. She was produced in Serampore court on charges under the Disaster Management Act. The action follows a letter to state chief secretary Rajiva Sinha on behalf of the West Bengal Doctors’ Forum (WBDF) against the post. In its letter signed by senior members of the forum, WBDF wrote, “In violation of the law, she has not only defamed him (the doctor).... but created a scope of hazard to his family members as well.” Referring to the doctor, the WBDF letter stated the doctor is a government officer who contracted “an illness” in the line of duty for no fault of his. “This is extremely unfortunate to see such outrage and instigation from such people. Such actions if not dealt with strictly will instigate others to do the same,” the letter stated. The chief secretary replied, “The woman has been arrested. Police found another person of the same housing complex who had uploaded a video. He was not arrested because he is in home quarantine. He will be arrested after he comes out of it.” The man in home isolation uploaded a video against the doctor, who lives in another housing complex nearby. The doctor has been admitted to MR Bangur Hospital, while his family members have been kept in isolation. Chandernagore police commissioner Humayun Kabir said, “Such a post on a doctor who is risking his life is condemnable and illegal. The woman has been sent to judicial custody till April 17.” The woman said, “I will seek pardon. It was a mistake.” Konnagar civic chairman Bappaditya Chatterjee said, “We want action against the accused.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/teacher-arrested-for-fb-post-on-covidve-doc/articleshow/75149095.cms||Falguni Banerjee
April 15, 2020||Madurai||Lockdown extension sees Madurai residents crowding shops||MADURAI: Vegetable markets and grocery stores were crowded than usual on Tuesday as residents resorted to a panic buying after the lockdown was extended. Residents said that while they have essentials they had purchased earlier, they wanted to stock up certain items like dal, sugar, rice and oil as a precaution. There was also a general fear of price of essentials going up making the people indulge in panic buying. “I got only half-a-month’s salary, which I have already spent it on essential items. I borrowed some money from my relative to make my purchase today (Tuesday),” V Alagumalaiyan, a hotel employee said. Residents said that many grocery stores are still closed, while most bigger ones operate. Shops will not be crowded if all of them are open. “Only one shop in my area is open. Many items were not available. I was forced to come to Anna Nagar to purchase essentials required for a month,” J Kayalvizhi, a resident of Anupanadi said. Police personnel deployed at junctions, allowed people to buy essentials till 10am. Those who were found wandering after that were stopped and asked to give reasons. Similarly, those who travelled without wearing any masks were asked to return home. A police officer from Anna Nagar station said that although they have been insisting of wearing masks while coming out of the house to ensure safety, many, especially the elderly and women venture out without a mask.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/lockdown-extension-sees-city-residents-crowding-shops/articleshow/75149545.cms||---
April 15, 2020||Ahmedabad||Cops, paramilitary forces to enforce curfew in Ahmedabad||AHMEDABAD: The city will witness curfew again after nearly a decade. But this time, the curfew will be clamped to prevent the further spread of Covid-19, unlike the past instances where the curfew was imposed to quell communal and caste-based violence. Ahmedabad city police commissioner Ashish Bhatia said that curfew would be imposed on the areas of the Walled City which come under the jurisdiction of Shahpur, Kalupur, Karanj, Khadia, Dariyapur and Gaekwad Haveli police stations from Wednesday morning onwards. The areas under Danilimda police station will also be under the curfew. Bhatia said that 22 police sub-inspectors, 323 constables and 546 home guard jawans along with 380 SRP jawans, 70 paramilitary women personnel, 30 BSF jawans and 90 RAF jawans would be deployed in the areas under the curfew. “Only women will be allowed to go out to buy grocery, milk and vegetables between 1 pm and 4 pm in the areas under the curfew from Wednesday,” said Bhatia. He added that 374 nakabandhi points would be set up and 159 mobile or PCR van would be patrolling the areas under the curfew. “As many as 49 police personnel will ensure home quarantine of Covid-19 patients or suspects, and 46 cops will be patrolling the areas under the curfew on motorcycles,” said Bhatia. Bhatia said that people could get curfew passes from the state government website ‘digitalgujarat.gov.in’ to move in case of unavoidable circumstances from Wednesday onwards. Ahmedabad had last witnessed the curfew when a communal violence took place in Shahpur area for a day in 2010. Before that, the city had witnessed the curfew during the 2002 riots, and in early 90s also due to communal tension. In 2015, Mehsana town had witnessed the curfew during the Patel quota stir.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/cops-paramilitary-forces-to-enforce-curfew-in-city/articleshow/75149241.cms||---
April 15, 2020||Agra||Uttar Pradesh: Man hacked to death by close friend’s rival||AGRA: A 28-year-old man’s mutilated body was found on Tuesday. It is suspected that he was hacked to death with an axe for allegedly interfering in a long pending dispute between two local residents of Mainpuri village Nagla Girind Chandpur. An FIR has been registered by the police. According to police, the incident took place on Tuesday afternoon when the deceased, Dhirendra Yadav, who hailed from Lekhrajpur village, visited his neighbouring village to meet his friend Balram Chauhan. However, before he could meet his friend, he was hacked to death by Balram’s rival, Govind Chauhan and his brothers. When Dhirendra was attacked, he tried to save his life by hiding in a local resident’s house but the accused chased and hacked him to death with an axe in the veranda of the house and fled the spot. Police told TOI that there is a long pending dispute between Govind and Balram as the former holds latter responsible for his sister’s death. The girl had committed suicide about two years ago after her wedding was called off allegedly because of Balram. Police said that about six months back, Govind and Balram had a fight and Dhirendra, who was present there, had intervened. Since then Govind harboured a grudge against Dhirendra. On finding Dhirendra alone, Govind attacked and killed him. Talking to TOI, Mainpuri additional SP OP Singh said that an FIR has been registered against four persons including Govind Chauhan. He said the deceased’s body has been sent for post mortem and the accused will be arrested soon.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/agra/man-hacked-to-death-by-close-friends-rival/articleshow/75148237.cms||---
April 15, 2020||Mumbai||Pvt hosps treating only 10% of Covid cases||Bengaluru: India has over 10,000 Covid-19 positive cases and government hospitals are taking care of bulk of the treatment, with private players and, consequently, health insurance playing a smaller role so far. Sources, including National Health Authority (NHA) officials, said that around 10% of cases are undergoing treatment in private hospitals. “The reason that most of the cases are being treated at government hospitals could be because state governments are actively tracking, testing and ensuring treatment for the positive cases. There is, however, a small number of people who opting for private healthcare,” said a top NHA official. And the cases where treatments are covered under health insurance are fewer — just 2% of total cases in India. As of Monday, General Insurance Council (GIC) reported about 200 Covid-19 claims to the Finance Ministry against 10,586 total cases. Private hospitals’ networks like Private Hospitals & Nursing Homes Association (PHANA), said that no uniform treatment protocol has been agreed upon and if AIIMS or the state governments come up with recommendations, they will likely follow the same. AIIMS set up a task force last week to set up a uniform protocol for hospital treatment of Covid-19. Even insurance companies, via GIC, have sent suggestions to Insurance Regulatory and Development Authority of India (IRDAI) and the finance ministry, asking that hospitals follow a set procedure for treatment of Covid-19 cases so that rack rates can be agreed upon. Right now, treatment for Covid-19 cases at private hospital treatment costs anywhere between Rs 4.5 to Rs 10 lakh. “We have given our recommendations, but we have received no update. The number of cases is still too low for us to be worried,” said a CMD of a general insurance company. When asked about patients being affected by artificial inflation of bills by private hospitals said insurers the CMD said, “If the hospital is not a partner, then there could be issues at the time of reimbursement”. Insurers have agreed that adding costs to the final bill will be testing. “The cost is about Rs 4,500 per test and one must remember this isn’t a one-time cost. The patient gets tested every two days till the tests indicate a negative result,” said CEO of a private insurance firm.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/pvt-hosps-treating-only-10-of-covid-cases/articleshow/75149591.cms||Rachel Chitra
April 15, 2020||Kolkata||Social distancing takes a walk in Kolkata’s 3,000 slums with 18 lakh people||KOLKATA: Be it winter, summer or monsoon, Tiljala’s Dharapara slum resident Tapan Sutradhar wakes up around dawn to use the community toilet before the queue becomes too long. Since the lockdown was announced, he has become even more paranoid and wakes up in the early hours before sunrise to use the toilet before the crowd builds up. Mohammed Aslam, who lives in Belgachhia slum, can do nothing to avoid the queue when he goes to fetch water from the community tap. With KMC supplying water at 4pm, men, women and children from several households in the slum queue up to fill their buckets and bottles. Sutradhar and Aslam are among lakhs residing in Kolkata’s congested slums where residents can’t even visualise social distancing, much less practice it. With 25-30 persons sharing a toilet and over a 100 using the same drinking water source, social distancing is as abstract a concept among slum residents as it is impossible to practise. While fear runs deep among a section of slum dwellers on how the virus could spread its tentacles through the narrow alleys and cheek by jowl tenements if a resident contracted it, they have to go about with their lives. KMC officials concede the social distancing norms made little sense in the slums where residents had to compete to avail of facilities in time. “In summer, 600-700 slum dwellers queue up twice a day at a roadside tap for drinking water. Then there are toilets, few in numbers that have to cater to many that live there. Maintaining the level of personal hygiene being advocated to avoid Covid-19 in a situation such as this is well nigh impossible,” the official from the KMC slum development department admitted. In large slums with population of over 10,000, one toilet is used by 25-30 persons daily. The ratio was even more skewed till recently. In the past five years, 10,000 toilets have been added in slums. Swapan Samaddar, member mayor-in-council overseeing the slum development department at KMC, is a worried man. “There are slums where 10-12 people share a 250 square feet room. What can you do in a situation such as this?” he wonders. At least 18 lakh people stay in more than 3,000 slums located across the city. Of these, 23 are major slums with a population of over 10,000 people. Given the conditions and vulnerability to high transmission in case a resident contracts the virus, all major slums have been categorised as high-risk zones for concerted Covid-19 prevention drives. These include fever checks among sanitisation drives to keep the alleys clean. “We can’t enforce social distancing due to want of space. What we can do is keep a vigil on people running a temperature and sanitize the slums twice daily,” the official said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/social-distancing-takes-a-walk-in-kolkatas-3k-slums-with-18l-people/articleshow/75149104.cms||Saikat Ray
April 15, 2020||Hyderabad||New mothers forced to sit through the night at shelter homes: PIL||HYDERABAD: The Telangana high court will hear on Wednesday the plight of the poor and destitute new mothers in the shelter homes on Wednesday. Advocate Vasudha Nagaraj, in a letter, highlighted the condition of thousands of migrant labourers, homeless people, beggars and abandoned children, who have been lifted from the roadsides, bus stations, railways stations and other public places and put up in various shelters in Hyderabad, in the aftermath of the Covid-19 health emergency and the lockdown since March 22. Taking note of this, a bench of Chief Justice Raghavendra Singh Chauhan and Justice T Amarnath Goud converted her letter into a PIL. Vasudha said stadiums, marriage halls and other large areas had been converted overnight into temporary shelters to house a large number of destitute people According to Vasudha, one of the shelters has about 200 inmates of which 30 are women and the rest are men. A majority of the inmates of the shelter are homeless people who are forced to lie on the roads in the vicinity of Gandhi Hospital, a Covid hospital, mothers discharged after deliveries with their newborn children, male patients discharged after surgeries along with their attendants, beggars and migrant workers, she said in her letter addressed to the CJ. She said some of the women who had just delivered were unable to sit on the floor. “One woman had undergone an orthopaedic surgery and she was also unable to sit on the ground,” she explained. Vasudha said there was a death in the Lalapet shelter but the staff there were unsure if it was due to Covid-19. She said the staff also informed her that there had been a death each in the temporary shelters at Malkajgiri and West Marredpally but no information was given to them about the cause of death. “All these issues are a cause of concern,” she pointed out.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/new-moms-forced-to-sit-through-the-night-at-shelter-homes-pil/articleshow/75149088.cms||---
April 15, 2020||Delhi||This freight driver knows no fright||NEW DELHI: For Vijay Pal Singh, any hour of the day can be a ‘working’ hour. The rest of India, indeed the world, may be in a lockdown, but he chugs through the states, ensuring that one channel remains vitally open when everything else is closed: supply lines for essentials. The 48-year-old locomotive driver, steering the freight trains of Northern Railway, has no time for self-isolation as he brings in the goods that the capital’s cocooned citizens need. Singh perhaps has never felt as important as he does now, being the Delhi Division’s indispensable cog. He does not have a fixed routine and is summoned two hours before a freight train has to be moved, meaning he has to remain plugged into the job 24 hours. He, however, feels this is an ideal way to serve his country. “Very few people are working right now and only those who are essential are being called in. I know how important my work is and each train that I bring in has tonnes of essential items, food, vegetables and other goods,” acknowledges the locomotive driver. “Each journey is helping people in the city and ensuring supplies even as they stay in their home, keeping themselves and others safe.” Singh joined the Delhi Division of Northern Railway in 1998. He lives in Ghaziabad, but says he has no trouble getting across in the capital. “I take pride in dressing up in my uniform and the policemen don’t stop me any longer. If I have to, I flash my curfew pass and they realise where I am headed to,” says Singh, from whom gloves and masks have become a habit now. “We have been provided a sanitisation kit, complete with hand sanitisers, gloves, masks and disinfectants. Once it finishes, we get another kit from the railways free of cost,” said Singh, who admits his family is angst-ridden that he has to leave home so frequently. “My brother and father are connected to the railways, so they understand how important freight trains are,” he says. “My wife and two children, however, worry a lot. Even if I cough once, they get scared and fret over me.” Singh, who spends eight hours per shift but can even be engaged in multiple journeys, isn’t unprotected. “At the station, we aren’t allowed to enter the loco lobby without getting screened and sanitised,” he discloses. In addition, social distancing is carefully maintained. “We can also ask the staff to disinfect the train numerous times. Each button that we press is cleaned thoroughly every day. As this is a contact-based job, even one person could infect so many others,” says Singh. He reveals that any person exhibiting symptoms of Covid-19 is immediately sent into home quarantine. “Only a skeletal staff is allowed to work. A small team runs the entire operations in each station — and this is the fastest way to ferry goods. It is an honour serving my fellow citizens at his trying time,” he smiles.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/this-freight-driver-knows-no-fright/articleshow/75149106.cms||Jasjeev Gandhiok
April 15, 2020||Madurai||Tamil Nadu: Four home guards held for stealing vehicle fuel||MADURAI: Four home guards in Ramanathapuram district have been arrested for stealing petrol and damaging two-wheelers that were seized recently for violating the lockdown. The incident took place on the premises of the Paramakudi Taluk police station last Thursday. The accused have been identified as S Duraipandi, 23, of Melaykudi, G Thiyagarajan, 24, of Kanjiyenthal, R Sakthi Mohan, 22, of M.Nedunkulam and S Vignesh Kumar, 24, of Pothuvakudi. Police noticed the theft on Monday while inspecting the condition of the vehicles. The tubes from the fuel tanks of the two-wheelers were found hanging. Some portions of the vehicles were also damaged. Police checked CCTV footage and found the four filling fuel in empty bottles. While the quantity of fuel stolen was not known, police have estimated the value of theft and properties damaged in four two-wheelers at Rs 8,000. Based on a complaint lodged by the Paramakudi taluk police inspector Suthandra Devi, a case was registered. All the accused were booked under Section 379 (punishment for theft) of the IPC and Section 3 of the Tamil Nadu Property Prevention of Damage and Loss Act.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/four-home-guards-held-for-stealing-vehicle-fuel/articleshow/75149549.cms||---
April 15, 2020||Hubballi||Waste segregation: HDMC decides against penalising residents until Covid-19 crisis blows over||Hubballi: Against a backdrop of rising Covid-19 cases in Dharwad district, civic agencies are contemplating relaxing a few rules so as to not add to the problems of the citizens. To this end, the Hubballi-Dharwad Municipal Corporation (HDMC) has decided against penalising residents for not handing segregated waste to the pourakarmikas until the crisis blows over. The civic agency has amended its bylaws to this effect, and is awaiting ratification from the Union ministry of urban development. Civic workers deployed to gather waste from households in the twin cities collect dry waste on Wednesday and Sunday. However, residents have not been cooperating with the pourakarmikas in this initiative, prompting the civic workers to divide the carriage of the tippers into two compartments where wet and dry waste are dumped separately, said a HDMC officer. Door-to-door collection of waste has resulted in mounds of garbage gradually disappearing from the side of the roads across Hubballi-Dharwad. However, the comprehensive solid waste management (SWM) plan envisaged by the civic agency entailed complete segregation of waste at the source, which would subsequently enable them to use the wet waste for generation of compost. The decision to penalise residents was taken after repeated pleas to residents to segregate waste failed to yield the desired result. Executive engineer in HDMC’s SWM wing Vijaykumar R said that the civic agency had launched the comprehensive plan, which the officials were convinced was the only possible long-term solution for effective disposal of garbage in Hubballi-Dharwad - on average, the twin cities generate 400 tonnes of waste every day. “Currently, the auto tippers are continuing the door-to-door collection of garbage. But HDMC is struggling to effectively implement the next stage of the plan, which is the generation of compost, and electricity using wet waste,” Vijaykumar told TOI. The senior official added that the HDMC was contemplating drafting new rules that would empower pourakarmikas to refuse collection of waste from households where garbage was not segregated. “We have earmarked five acres for a dump yard, where we are looking to set up the compost unit. We have already procured the machines, but we need to assemble them in order at the unit before we can start the process,” said another HDMC officer. The HDMC has already set up a stationary compactor unit in Hubballi, where the auto-tippers will dump the waste collected at the households. This, the officer added, would help save the auto tippers time otherwise spent visiting dump yards.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hubballi/waste-segregation-hdmc-decides-against-penalising-residents-until-covid-19-crisis-blows-over/articleshow/75147150.cms||Kishan Singh Bhorde
April 15, 2020||Goa||South Goa in green zone, north in red, says Pramod Sawant||PANAJI: Chief minister Pramod Sawant on Tuesday said that South Goa has been placed in the green zone as per the Union government’s zoning list for Covid-19, while North Goa has been placed in the red zone. He further said that North Goa could be classified as a green zone after April 17. As per the Centre’s classification, a red zone indicates a high number of cases. The last Covid-19 case in the state was detected on April 3. Sawant told reporters that a district is declared a green zone if no positive case of Covid-19 is reported from there. “We had initially detected one Covid-19 patient in South Goa, but he subsequently recovered. Hence, the district has been declared as a green zone,” he said. The chief minister, however, warned that such a classification did not mean that everyone in South Goa was safe. “People should not come out of their houses. We have to maintain social distancing in both districts,” he said. The districts of Ratnagiri and Sindhudurg in Maharashtra have been classified as orange zones, the chief minister said, adding that cases of Covid-19 have also been detected in Belagavi, Karnataka. “People of Goa must be alert,” he said. Referring to Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s appeal, Sawant said special care should be given to elderly members of each family, especially those who have chronic diseases. He also insisted that everyone use home-made masks and follow instructions issued by the Ayush ministry to enhance immunity. Poor families to get free groceriesChief minister Pramod Sawant on Tuesday said the state government has decided to provide Rs 25,000 to each panchayat towards free supply of groceries to poor Goan families in their respective jurisdictions. “Everyone should not be given free groceries. Each panchayat must identify only the poor families in their village and give them supplies free of cost,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/south-goa-in-green-zone-north-in-red-says-sawant/articleshow/75149552.cms||---
April 15, 2020||Madurai||31 Rajasthanis set out for home on bikes, sent back||Madurai: Thirtyone people from Rajasthan employed in Kanyakumari, who dared to return to their native place on bikes, were stopped by the Tuticorin district police near Kayathar on Tuesday. The migrants comprising women and children started from Kanyakumari on 12 bikes on Tuesday morning. They crossed the Kanyakumari and Tirunelveli district borders before being stopped by the police at Paruthikulam, about 115 kms into the trip. They said they were selling ice creams, snacks and toys to tourists at Kanyakumari when the lockdown was announced, which hit them hard. They thought business would resume after the lockdown ends on Tuesday, but its extension had made them home sick. With no public transport available, they decided to ride all the way home, 2,700-plus kilometres away. Kayathar tahsildar Baskaran explained to them that they cannot cross the district borders without prior permission due to the lockdown and they will have to return to Kanyakumari. Kovilpatti DSP M Jebaraj said that they escorted the migrants till the Tirunelveli district border at Gangaikondan. Tirunelveli police escorted the families to the Kanyakumari district border at Valliyoor. “These families have been living in Kanyakumari for the last few years and were doing small businesses,” Kanyakumari collector Prashant M Wadnere said and added that they has rental agreements and other proofs of residing in Kanyakumari. “We provided them with grocery items and also shared our contact numbers to call us for any assistance. During inquiry by the revenue divisional officer, they stated that they were stressed and started falling home sick due to the lockdown. We have assured to extend all possible support,” the collector said. Prashant said that there are only 1,332 registered interstate migrant labourers in Kanyakumari district but officials have identified 6,262 of them at 492 establishments through verification. The employers have been instructed to provide them grocery till the lockdown is over and in case of struggling units the district administration is meeting the requirements.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/31-rajasthanis-set-out-for-home-on-bikes-sent-back/articleshow/75149551.cms||M K Ananth
April 15, 2020||Vadodara||Another Nagarwada resident dies, fourth COVID-19 death in city||Vadodara: City witnessed its fourth death due to COVID-19 as a 58-year-old Nagarwada resident passed away on Tuesday. Mohammed Hanif Pathan, who tested positive for the deadly virus on April 8, passed away at a private hospital in the city where he was being treated. Pathan happens to be second victim of COVID-19 from Nagarwada-Saiyedpura area, which was declared red zone on April 5 and has seen cases spiralling at an alarming rate. On Sunday, Bhargav Patni, a 27-year-old man from the area, had passed away at GMERS Medical College and Hospital at Gotri where he was admitted. Before the two deceased from Nagarwada, the city had witnessed two deaths. Fifty-two-year-old Shailen Desai, a resident of Nizampura area, had died on April 2 while 62-year-old Rekha Sheth, a resident of Tandalja Road, on April 6. The duo, admitted at state-run SSG Hospital, was a part of a group of couples that had toured Sri Lanka. They developed symptoms for the disease later.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/another-nagarwada-resident-dies-fourth-covid-19-death-in-city/articleshow/75148460.cms||---
April 15, 2020||Lucknow||UP got maximum distress calls from natives stuck in Rajasthan, Maharashtra||LUCKNOW: Uttar Pradesh received the maximum — 8,200 distress calls — from Congress-ruled Rajasthan, followed by Maharashtra, from where over 6,000 people made anguished calls to their home state. The calls were made by UP natives to the state government helplines during the lockdown period from March 25 to April 9. The data has been revealed in the progress reports of 11 committees (also known as G-11) headed by officials. They were constituted by CM Yogi Adityanath at the start of the lockdown to extend help to UP natives stuck in other states. According to the report, a total 31,624 calls/emails from people in distress in other states were received by the state government. The 10-page report indicates that till April 9, the infrastructure and industrial development committee convinced over 30,000 out of 33,031 industrial units to pay employee wages amounting to more than Rs 406 crore. The committee’s progress reports states that 410 out of 452 units for production of medical equipment and drug manufacturing have been made functional across the state. As per the progress report of the committee headed by agriculture production commissioner Alok Sinha, milk was procured from over 33 lakh units out of nearly 52 lakh milk production units, with the help of 19,600 door-to-door delivery persons. The progress report of the home department states that more than 48,000 people were booked for violating the lockdown in UP while 15,000 FIRs were lodged. The home department also released about 13,000 prisoners, including 169 juveniles. Similarly, the revenue department’s progress report states that nearly 1.25 lakh natives of UP, who arrived from other states, are staying at 5,241 shelter homes across the state. The rural department and panchayati raj committee received 434 complaints regarding potable drinking water, out of which 432 were resolved. According to the medical department progress report, 45 of the 480 coronavirus patients have recovered and discharged from hospitals. The progress report of animal husbandry department shows that arrangements were made to ensure that stray animals and stray dogs are fed during the lockdown. The progress report of DGP committee points out that besides cleaning and sanitisation of PAC battalions, food packets were also distributed among the needy. In Gorakhpur, the home turf of CM Yogi, more than 8,600 food packets were distributed during the lockdown. The finance committee ensured two months’ pension to 49.87 lakh senior citizens, 10.87 lakh divyang people and more than 26 lakh widows. The department also introduced 30% cut in salary and allowance of ministers and MLAs, besides suspending temporarily local area development fund of legislators for the current financial year.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/up-got-max-distress-calls-from-its-natives-stuck-in-rajasthan-maha/articleshow/75149563.cms||Pankaj Shah
April 15, 2020||Dehradun||Govt releases amount for additional ration to card holders||Under the Food Safety Scheme of the Uttarakhand government, the state has released Rs 33.84 lakh for additional ration of 7.5-kg to be provided to card holders. There are 10.27 lakh State Food Safety scheme ration card holders in the state. The quantity of ration for them has been doubled for a period of three months in light of the Covid-19 epidemic as per a proposal passed a few days ago.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/govt-releases-amount-for-additional-ration-to-card-holders/articleshow/75148310.cms||---
April 15, 2020||Dehradun||Char Dham portals to open on due date; religious rituals only||Clearing doubts over the opening of portals of Char Dham, CM Trivendra Singh Rawat said that they will open on the due dates. “However, due to lockdown, the activities will be restricted to religious rituals only,” CM Rawat said. He added that ‘online darshan’ may be facilitated considering the lockdown restrictions and the need to maintain social distancing.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/char-dham-portals-to-open-on-due-date-religious-rituals-only/articleshow/75148277.cms||---
April 15, 2020||Ahmedabad||All APMC market yards in Gujarat to restart business today||GANDHINAGAR: The state government announced that work at all Agriculture Produce Marketing Committee yards will recommence business from Wednesday. The decision was taken after deputy CM Nitin Patel held a meeting with administrators of APMCs from across the state. Secretary to the CM, Ashwani Kumar said, “The decision to open APMCs has been taken in the interest of farmers for the rabi harvest season. However, the APMCs will follow social distancing and avoid crowding of people. A five-member committee headed by the district registrar has been formed to ensure the rules are followed.” The official said that farmers wanting to sell their produce will need to first register with the committee, which will ask a specific number of farmers to visit the market yard on a specific date with just a sample of their produce. “This will enable us to ensure social distancing, as only a limited number of farmers will remain present on a given day. After inspecting samples, traders will place orders with farmers. Instead of asking the farmer to bring his produce to an APMC, the trader concerned will collect it from his farm. Alternatively, farmers can transport the produce to the godowns of traders. This will eliminate the possibility of crowding at market yards,” added Kumar. Every person working at an APMC will compulsorily have to wear a mask and gloves and use hand sanitizer. Everybody entering the market yard will have their temperature checked with a thermal scanner.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/all-apmc-market-yards-to-restart-business-today/articleshow/75149240.cms||---
April 15, 2020||Agra||Four more test positive in Agra, district tally now 146||AGRA: Four new coronavirus positive cases surfaced in Agra on Tuesday evening taking the district tally to 146. Out of the four new cases, one is a contact of Tablighi Jamaat member, one is a patient admitted at the SN Medical College. One case is related to a private hospital on National Highway 2 and another is wife of the man who tested Covid-19 positive earlier. Out of the 146 coronavirus cases in Agra, at least 76 are related to people who had attended the Tablighi Jamaat event in Delhi and their contracts. 11 patients have direct overseas travel history. The remaining are contacts of the people tested positive earlier.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/agra/four-more-test-positive-in-agra-district-tally-now-146/articleshow/75148280.cms||---
April 15, 2020||Hyderabad||City cops help US citizen turned away from mart||Hyderabad: After TOI reported about a US citizen being too scared to leave her house because she was reportedly heckled at a hypermarket a day into lockdown, police reached her doorstep to assure her of her safety. They ensured she bought essentials from the very store where she was allegedly abused. Julie Price was not allowed to enter the store by store security. Later, two people from North-East faced similar treatment at the store. “We took her (Price) to the store and ensured she bought all that she needed. We have also warned the store management that they cannot stop anyone from entering the store on the basis of their nationality or ethnicity,” Vanasthalipuram sub-inspector Venkat Reddy told TOI. Thanking TOI for its effort, Price said, “Police came to my flat and spoke to my team member, the flat owner and me. Then, they took me to the same grocery store that had denied me entry. They introduced me to the store manager and told him he should always allow me inside the shop. The manager encouraged me to call if I need anything and said he would personally help me . This is the Indian hospitality that I always knew was there.” The resident of Tennessee has rented a two-bedroom apartment in Vanasthalipuram and the store is located nearby. She came to India in January. Rachakonda police commissioner Mahesh Bhagwat said, “We got in touch with Julie Price and took her to the store to boost her confidence.” People might have heckled her because of fear that she too might have come from a Covid-19-affected country, he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/city-cops-help-us-citizen-turned-away-from-mart/articleshow/75149115.cms||---
April 15, 2020||Hyderabad||Hyderabad cops help US citizen turned away from mart||HYDERABAD: After TOI reported about a US citizen being too scared to leave her house because she was reportedly heckled at a hypermarket a day into lockdown, police reached her doorstep to assure her of her safety. They ensured she bought essentials from the very store where she was allegedly abused. Julie Price was not allowed to enter the store by store security. Later, two people from North-East faced similar treatment at the store. “We took her (Price) to the store and ensured she bought all that she needed. We have also warned the store management that they cannot stop anyone from entering the store on the basis of their nationality or ethnicity,” Vanasthalipuram sub-inspector Venkat Reddy told TOI. Thanking TOI for its effort, Price said, “Police came to my flat and spoke to my team member, the flat owner and me. Then, they took me to the same grocery store that had denied me entry. They introduced me to the store manager and told him he should always allow me inside the shop. The manager encouraged me to call if I need anything and said he would personally help me . This is the Indian hospitality that I always knew was there.” The resident of Tennessee has rented a two-bedroom apartment in Vanasthalipuram and the store is located nearby. She came to India in January. Rachakonda police commissioner Mahesh Bhagwat said, “We got in touch with Julie Price and took her to the store to boost her confidence.” People might have heckled her because of fear that she too might have come from a Covid-19-affected country, he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/city-cops-help-us-citizen-turned-away-from-mart/articleshow/75149120.cms||---
April 15, 2020||Kolkata||West Bengal: No kid will lag behind in studies, no pay-cut for CNI school staff, says Bishop||KOLKATA: Even if extra classes needed to be taken on Saturdays and vacations had to be negotiated with, every school under the umbrella of the Church of North India (CNI) would ensure no child lagged behind in studies, said Bishop Paritosh Canning in a message on Poila Baishakh. The message, released from Bishop House on Tuesday, reached all CNI schools, including La Martiniere, St James’, Pratt Memorial, St Thomas’ and others. It contained an advisory for both school administrations as well as parents, the stakeholders in kids’ education. Many parents have been anxious that the delay in the reopening of schools might interfere with their children’s studies. Parents of schools yet to start online classes have reportedly been pushing for the distance-learning sessions to begin. Many schools are also yet to publish their results and guardians have been asking whether the report cards would be mailed or not. The Bishop’s message seemed to allay their fears. “I urge parents to have patience. The loss... shall be compensated by appropriate means,” the message read. La Martiniere Schools secretary Supriyo Dhar said, “The Bishop is equally concerned about academics in schools and together, with the administrations, is trying to work out the best options, which could mean working on Saturdays or cutting Puja or winter vacations short, to make up for lost time.” The message also dispelled anxiety among teaching and non-teaching staff over pay-cuts. “It’s our prime objective to see our teaching and non-teaching staff do not suffer monetarily at this hour,” the Bishop said in his message. Though some schools have started online classes and some are set to launch it, the Bishop advised parents to spend time with children, bonding with them over studies and other activities.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/no-kid-will-lag-behind-in-studies-no-pay-cut-for-cni-school-staff-bishop/articleshow/75149123.cms||Jhimli Mukherjee Pandey
April 15, 2020||Ahmedabad||Wholesale vegetable trading at Jetalpur will resume as well||AHMEDABAD: The Agricultural Produce Market Committee (APMC), Ahmedabad, will commence trading of vegetables, only for wholesalers, from 7pm on Wednesday. For the retailers, the APMC will come up with seven to eight markets on the lines of Jetalpur. The APMC in a detailed guideline issued on Tuesday stated that the traders will have to coordinate with their farmers and ensure that they get vehicles from each village. The APMC has banned three- wheelers, two-wheelers and on foot shifting of goods. Bharat Khamar, the president of the Ahmedabad Vegetable General Commission Agent Cooperative Society, said, "APMC has come out with a detailed plan. If this is implemented properly, there will not be overcrowding." He said that spots have not been fixed as the AMC officials were busy because of the curfew decision in the Walled City. “Once the spots are fixed, we will tell our farmers and their traders to take vegetables to these places so that there is adequate supply,” he said. The official notification states that no person will be allowed to enter the market without mask and movement in the market without mask will be prohibited. The APMC officials have said that the farmers should be informed by the commission agents that only one person with one vehicle will be permitted to enter the APMC. The list has to be provided by 10am and later only farmers will be given entry.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/wholesale-vegetable-trading-at-jetalpur-will-resume-as-well/articleshow/75149236.cms||---
April 15, 2020||Goa||Broken pumps, no operator hit water supply in Bicholim, Pernem, Sattari||PANAJI/BICHOLIM/VALPOI: After essential commodities, it is now potable water supply that has been hit by the lockdown. Residents of Bicholim and far-flung areas of Sattari and Pernem talukas have been facing severe water shortage for several weeks. PWD officials said that in the case of Bicholim taluka, the water pump had broken down at the Padoshem water treatment plant and that after repairs supply would resume within three days. In the case of Pernem and Sattari, residents alleged that their water supply was severely affected because pump operators had stopped reporting for duty on a regular basis since the lockdown began. Across Bicholim and Sattari, residents were seen stepping out to draw water from their wells. Officials said water tankers are being sent out to affected areas to make up for the shortage in supply. Villagers, however, refuted this claim. In Thane, Sattari, villagers said it has been nearly a month now since they began facing shortage. They are furious because, recently, a new Rs 3.5-crore pipeline was laid from the Dabos water treatment plant to the Thane village. Villagers have resolved that they will collectively refuse to pay water bills if supply is not restored immediately. In case of Bicholim taluka, PWD officials maintained that only areas on the tail-end of the Padoshem plant were affected. Due to the pumps being out of order, the plant, which normally supplies 40MLD of treated water, is able to provide only 30MLD currently, they said. “Some villages like Surla, Pale, Chorao are located almost 30km from the plant and supply is not reaching them. Of the five pumps at the plant, at least four have to work for regular supply of 40MLD to be provided. Currently, only three of the five pumps are functional,” officials said. In Sattari, the affected ward in Hivre-Thane village consists of over 150 houses with around 1,000 villagers. Prema Gaonkar from Hivre-Thane said villagers get supply only for a few minutes and that too not at fixed timings. “People could not store water as it comes for a few minutes any time of the day,” she said. She further alleged that the pump operator is not doing his duty. “If we ask him, he tells us to go to the water supply office in Valpoi, which is about 10km away from our village. With there being a lockdown in force, how can we go there,” Prema said. An elderly person from the village said no tanker arrangements have been made for them. Local panch Satyawan Gaonkar solely blamed the pump operator. “We have complained to the authorities, but till date nothing has been done by them.” Like areas of Bicholim and Sattari, villages of Pernem which depend on the Tuem plant, were also left without tap water this week. “One of the two pumps at Tuem plant broke down. But there was delay on the part of those posted at the plant in informing the head office about the pump having broken down. This left the locals without supply. The pumps are being replaced and water supply restored,” a PWD official said. Sources said that following the lockdown, the pump operators were not able to attend work regularly with public transport having been shut down. This is believed to have caused delay in reporting the breaking down of the pump. PWD officials had earlier said that it has been ensured that work of pumping of water is not affected due to the lockdown and that pump operators have been issued identity cards for easy movement.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/broken-pumps-no-operator-hit-water-supply-in-bicholim-pernem-sattari/articleshow/75149571.cms||---
April 15, 2020||Goa||Cashew farmers want higher price for kernels||Panaji: The government-notified price of Rs 105 per kg for cashew kernels is insufficient, and Goan farmers deserve a better support price, GAKUVED (Gawda, Kunbi, Velip and Dhangar) Federation said recently. Echoing the federation’s concerns, state Congress said farmers are battling for survival amidst the Covid-19 crisis and it was the government’s responsibility to provide adequate and “respectable” prices for the cashewnut crop. “Cashew cultivation has been constantly under threat for various reasons, but primarily for not fetching a fair compensation to the poor farmers due to lack of policy and low price fixation by the state government,” said GAKUVED general secretary Rupesh Soiru Velip. Goa Bagayatdar has fixed a purchase price of Rs 105 per kg and desperate farmers have already started selling their produce at that rate even though prior to the lockdown, the cashewnut used to fetch Rs 135 per kg. “The price offered is too low compared to the earlier years,” said Velip. Farmers, especially from the scheduled tribe communities of talukas such as Sattari, Sanguem, Quepem, Canacona, Ponda, Bicholim and Pernem, with maximum cashew cultivation along the sloppy mountains, are the worst affected. “We demand that chief minister Pramod Sawant intervenes and increases the fixed price beyond Rs 130 per kg, as the retail price of the packaged kernel is Rs 1,100 – 1,200 per kg in the market,” said Velip.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/cashew-farmers-want-higher-price-for-kernels/articleshow/75149586.cms||---
April 15, 2020||Bhopal||Bhopal: E-cards, virtual darshans trend this festive season||BHOPAL: It is that time of the year again, when Indians celebrate the various new year festivals — Poila Baisakh, Pana Sankrant, Vishu. The lockdown may have changed the way Bhopalis are observing the festivals, but it has not dampened the celebration and their spirits. Residents performed the rituals at home and interacted with their families and friends online. For the members of Malayalee community, the day began with morning prayers. The family members gathered to make floor art using Konna flowers. The Vishu Sadhya holds a significant place in the celebration and the usual Sadhya spread can have about 24-28 dishes served as a single course. This year, however, the residents could only prepare a few dishes due to lack of availability of ingredients amid the lockdown. SA Pillai from the Malayalee Association said, “Vishu is celebrated with much ceremonial splendor with family members, relatives and friends and is marked by feasting and burning of fire crackers. The day begins with people offering auspicious prayers. Family members are supposed to see a plate full of different commodities as the first thing after waking up. Known as ‘VishuKani’, the commodities are of ritualistic significance like fruits, rice, areca nuts among others . After this, we usually assemble at the Ayyapa temple... this year due to the Covid-19 pandemic people stayed in their homes.” The characteristically vibrant Poila Baisakh celebrations in Bhopal — with musical evenings, were substituted with community service, as this year, the Bengali Association at TT Nagar decided to give away their annual budget collection to NGOs and gurudwara working to provide meals to those in need. People celebrated with their family and friends via video calls. Members of Utkal Samaj also stayed home as the pundit at the Jagannath Temple at Jawahar Chowk performed the puja at the temple all alone. The special 'paana', prepared by pujari Arun Pandya at the temple, was distributed to a few devotees who came in for early morning prayers. Satyanarayan Padhi, an Oriya resident of Bhopal, said, “While we visit the temple every year and have the paana prepared at the temple, it was not possible this year. We just cleaned the house, did a small prayer and prepared the paana. . We just wished each other, spoke to our friends and relatives on phone and social media this year to follow the lockdown and keep everyone safe.” Amid the muted festivities, many people also hosted online celebrations on Ambedkar Jayanti to mark the birth anniversary of Dr Bhim Rao Ambedkar, father of the Constitution. They discussed his ideas and principles, and some volunteer groups also made plans to help collect donations for daily wage labourers stranded in the city. The Indira Gandhi Rashtriya Manav Sangrahalaya also hosted an online conference. Joint director of the museum, Dilip Singh’s lecture was streamed on various social media platforms and online video channels.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/e-cards-virtual-darshans-trend-this-festive-season/articleshow/75149122.cms||Shuchita Jha
April 15, 2020||Jaipur||12-hour workday in Rajasthan factories||JAIPUR: The Rajasthan government has increased work hours of labourers and employees in factories manufacturing essential products from the regular 8 hours to 12. This is perhaps the first such move by a state government in the country. As per a notification by the labour department, the extension of work hours will be in place for the next three months. Neeraj K Pawan, secretary, labour department, said that the decision was taken keeping in mind the national public emergency due to Covid-19 outbreak. “This will achieve the dual objective of restoring the full supply of essential goods and ensuring the minimal presence of people in manufacturing and distribution facilities,” Pawan said The notification said that the additional four hours a day shall be paid as overtime, subject to a limit of 24 hours a week for six days.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/12-hr-workday-in-rajasthan-factories/articleshow/75149587.cms||Srikanta Tripathy
April 15, 2020||Dehradun||U’khand govt announces relief measures for electricity consumers; no late payment charges, no power disconnection||Dehradun: In some welcome news for state residents on a day when the nation-wide lockdown was extended to May 3, chief minister Trivendra Singh Rawat on Tuesday ordered the state power department to provide relief to domestic and commercial power consumers. As part of the relief, the recovery of fixed demand charge of power consumption between March and May for both industrial and commercial consumers has been deferred. The government has also done away with late payment charges, which is likely to benefit 2.70 lakh consumers. Further, in a big relief, power department officials have been directed to ensure that the electricity supply of no consumer is disconnected till June 30 in case of any non-payment of dues. “Keeping in mind the lockdown extension and also the fact that Rabi crop is ready, we have decided to provide relief to the people,” the CM said. In a respite to farmers, the state has decided to not levy delay surcharge to private tubewell owners who had to clear their dues by June 30. Over 20,000 farmers will benefit from the decision although it will put an additional burden of Rs 3.64 crore on the state exchequer. For industrial and commercial consumers, the state has decided to postpone the recovery of fixed/demand charge in accordance to the power consumed from March to May this year. No additional surcharge would be taken from these consumers for this period. The move will benefit a total of 2.70 lakh consumers and the required expense of Rs 8 crore would be borne by the state government. A 1% rebate would be given to all power consumers, who pay their dues on time using the online facility. The maximum rebate for HT (high voltage) power consumers would be Rs 1 lakh and for LT (low voltage) power consumers, the maximum rebate would be Rs 10,000. The move is aimed to benefit 25 lakh power consumers in the state and the Rs 1 crore expenditure incurred through the process would be borne by Uttarakhand Power Corporation Limited (UPCL), a communique from the CM’s office said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/ukhand-govt-announces-relief-measures-for-electricity-consumers-no-late-payment-charges-no-power-disconnection/articleshow/75147191.cms||Kautilya Singh
April 15, 2020||Trichy||Tamil Nadu permits traditional, motorised boats to fish on a rotation basis||MADURAI: The state government has permitted fishing in non-mechanised country and mechanised crafts in 13 coastal districts with stringent restrictions three weeks after banning it to prevent Covid-19 spread. This is only applicable for boats with less than 10hp . Mechanised boats engaged in trawling and deeps sea fishing will not be allowed as the annual 61-day ban on fishing on the east coast has begun. According to a statement from the fisheries department, restoration of traditional fishing is aimed at ensuring the supply of the important source of nutritious protein rich food to the public during the lockdown period. “There are 40,000 mechanised and 8,000 non-mechanised crafts that will be allowed to fish during the remaining lockdown period. This will directly provide employment to two lakh fishermen and an equal number of persons in the indirectly dependent sectors,” fisheries director G S Sameeran told TOI. Based on the orders of the ministry of home affairs and decision taken by the Tamil Nadu government, the respective district collectors have been requested to allow fishing with strict compliance to restrictions and regulations to ensure that social distancing and other hygienic practices are followed. One of the major restrictions to avoid crowds is banning the auctioning of fish and retail sales. While fisherfolk and representatives said that this is completely against the norms, officials said that it is to reduce the number of people coming to the fishing harbours, landing centres and points. Instead, the respective village committees will fix the price. Other restrictions include allowing only minimum crew members on a boat and allowing villages to fish on a rotational basis. Only 50% of the fishing villages in a district and 50% of the operational motorised and traditional crafts in a village shall be allowed to fish in a day. A maximum of 300 boats will be allowed in a day in major fishing harbours and landing centres. Number of fishing boats which should go for fishing will be decided by the “Crisis Management Committees” headed by the district collector. Vessel owners should ensure that protective gears are provided to the crew members. Meanwhile, traditional fishing resumed in a few districts including Tuticorin on Monday, but some villages in Kanyakumari have decided not to venture into the sea till the lockdown comes to an end.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/tn-permits-traditional-motorised-boats-to-fish-on-a-rotation-basis/articleshow/75149585.cms||---
April 15, 2020||Dehradun||Unable to meet for weeks due to lockdown, UP couple elopes to U’khand to be quarantined together, kin foil plan||Rudrapur: Two enterprising lovers in UP’s Shahjahanpur — who were unable to meet for weeks due to the ongoing lockdown — came up with what they believed was an ingenious idea to be with each other — elope to a neighbouring state, get caught and then be quarantined together in one of the facilities meant to screen outsiders for Covid-19. The plan was partly successful — for four days the couple was quarantined in the same centre in Uttarakhand’s Khatima. But when the girl’s family filed a missing complaint with police, she was taken away on Monday and put in home quarantine while the boy is now stuck in the facility, serving the remaining part of his mandatory 14-day quarantine period. According to police, the couple, both adults, walked and hitchhiked from Shahjahanpur to Khatima, a distance of about 100 km, last Thursday. As expected, they were stopped at the border. Station house officer of Khatima, Sanjay Pathak, told TOI the two did not have a permit to cross borders so they were quarantined in separate rooms at the government Industrial Training Institute (ITI). On Monday, the cops received a call from their counterparts in Shahjahanpur. “They told us that the girl had been reported as missing by her family. A team of Shahjahanpur police then arrived in Khatima with the girl’s parents. The girl was sent home where she has been told to remain under quarantine while the man will be kept at the facility,” said Pathak. UP Police said it will send the girl’s samples for Covid-19 testing since she had flouted lockdown norms and come in contact with others.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/unable-to-meet-for-weeks-due-to-lockdown-up-couple-elopes-to-ukhand-to-be-quarantined-together-kin-foil-plan/articleshow/75148337.cms||Aakash Ahuja
April 15, 2020||Madurai||Madurai couple on foot stranded in Hyderabad||Madurai: Madurai based couple M Karuppaiah, 49, and his wife K Chitra, 51, who set off on a 1,000 km walking cum cycling yatra to Hyderabad are stranded 17 km ahead of their destination – the Gandhi Bhavan in Secunderabad – due to the lockdown. Over the years the couple has travelled thousands of kilometres on foot across India to spread Gandhian ideologies. They set off from the Gandhi temple in Erode on January 26. They were supposed to complete the expedition on March 12, the 90th anniversary of the Salt Satyagraha. “But we could not reach the destination as planned as we had to address more institutions unexpectedly and the temperature was too high, making it tiresome,” Karuppaiah said. Talking to TOI from L B Nagar in Hyderabad on Tuesday, Karuppaiah said that they are desperate to complete their mission and return to Madurai. They could only reach Vijayawada on March 12 and were 50 km short of Hyderabad when they were stranded in Yelagiri village, in Choutuppal Mandal, Nalgonda district, due to the nationwide lockdown announced on March 24. “Villagers blocked the national highway using thorny bushes, logs and tyres to block outsiders entering their villages fearing that they could bring COVID-19,” Karuppaiah said. The couple with nobody to help locally and nowhere to go, stayed in a local temple veranda. They contacted TN revenue minister R B Udhayakumar for help, who in turn got in touch with police officials in Nalgonda. The local police provided protection and a policeman also gave them some money to buy supplies for preparing food. “We picked dry sticks, made a stove by arranging stones and prepared food,” Karuppaiah said. Their contacts in the Gandhi Ashram in Tiruchengode, Namakkal district, and friends helped them to get support from Telangana governor Tamilisai Soundararajan. On the directions from the governor’s office they got supplies for food and some money through the tahsildar of Choutuppal Mandal. The couple continued staying under such hard conditions till gale and heavy rains hit the village on April 8. They started walking and reached L B Nagar in Hyderabad two days later and are staying in the Ayyappa devasthanam there since then. “Now that the lockdown has been extended the devasthanam has assured support till the lockdown is lifted,” he said. With 17 more km for their destination, they are afraid they would be able to reach the destination and returning to Tamil Nadu only after the lockdown is lifted.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/madurai-couple-on-foot-stranded-in-hyderabad/articleshow/75149590.cms||M K Ananth
April 15, 2020||Goa||Kamat writes to PM over seamen issue||Margao: Leader of opposition Digambar Kamat on Tuesday wrote to Prime Minister Narendra Modi seeking his immediate intervention in bringing back 7,000 to 8,000 Goan seafarers stranded on various ships across the globe. Kamat’s letter to Modi gives details of almost 199 cruise ships which are presently at various locations with almost 22,473 Indian seafarers onboard. “As per the information available, almost more than 21,000 Indian seafarers, out of which 7,000 to 8,000 are from my state Goa, are stranded on almost 196 merchant ships across the globe due to the outbreak of Covid-19,” Kamat said in the letter. He has has also enclosed a chart showing details of various cruise ships with names of the shipping companies, their current location, number of Indian crew members and other details, which will help the Indian authorities to track the seafarers. Kamat further brought to the notice of the Prime Minister the “immense contribution of the seafarers to the economic growth and foreign exchange earning of the country and particularly Goa.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/kamat-writes-to-pm-over-seamen-issue/articleshow/75149592.cms||---
April 15, 2020||Kolkata||Howrah civil defence men face social ostracisation||KOLKATA: Five volunteers of the civil defence unit in Howrah are facing social ostracisation from their neighbours as they are working in the place that is considered as a high sensitive zone and where the superintendent of a nearby hospital had tested positive for Covid-19. So, the volunteers are feeling threatened to return home and four of them have been staying in their office at Howrah Maidan close to the DM’s office. The other volunteer is still coming to work from home, despite opposition from her father-in-law, who is facing pressure and warning from locals. Nabanna officials have already been apprised of the matter. Times ViewThis evil must be stamped out. All emergency workers are risking their — and their families’ — health and none more so than healthcare industry professionals. They deserve all the help they can get. Ostracisation and harassment of such workers is a sign of societal ill health.The five, who are paid on daily basis, help the administration in various ways, from providing aids to the needy during disasters to carrying out control room duty. On Monday, two of them had gone to the home of Papia Mukherjee, an elderly woman, suffering from arthritis, to provide her with hydroxychloroquine tablets. Suprabhat Polley, a resident of Domjur, was threatened by his neighbours. “My dadas in the area, who I had once played with, asked me not to return home. Some of them advised me home quarantine. When I made it clear that I needed to work in the present crisis, they told me that they would expel my family from the area if I returned home from Howrah,” he said. Another volunteer Salman Dewan of Bagnan is also facing similar threat from neighbours. “My mother stays alone, so I need to go home and buy some essentials for her. But I am under threat from locals,” he rued. Sk Rockey of Phuleswar could not go home for the last eight days following the objection from his neighbours. “I failed to convince them that I was working for the good of people. I am sleeping on office tables now,” said the 26-year-old. Subhodeep Jana of Chunabati, who is staying in the office now, waits for the day when things will limp back to normalcy and he will be able to return home. Sumita Dey of Santragachi said her father-in-law was feeling distressed after people living near her house had objected to her coming to work in Howrah. “I don’t know how long I can manage to come here by ignoring them,” she rued.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/howrah-civil-defence-men-face-social-ostracisation/articleshow/75149141.cms||---
April 15, 2020||Ahmedabad||Western Railway to operate nine special parcel trains||AHMEDABAD: Western Railway, in order to ensure continuous supply of essential items like medicines, medical equipment and food, has decided to run nine special parcel trains-between Bandra Terminus-Okha, Bandra Terminus–Ahmedabad-Ludhiana, Mumbai Central- Vadodara-Firozpur, Porbandar–Ahmedabad-Shalimar, Ahmedabad–Guwahati, Surat– Bhagalpur, Dadar–Ahmedabad Bhuj, Linch – New Guwahati and Kankaria – Cuttack. According to a press release 12 timetabled parcel express trains with 56 trips were planned to run between March 31 to April 15, 2020, to mitigate the difficulties in transportation of essential items. Now, 68 more trips of nine parcel express trains are planned to be run. According to Railway Bandra Terminus – Ahmedabad Okha Parcel Special will have 10 trips and will run on April 16, 18, 20, 22 and 24 from Bandra and Okha simultaneously and will reach their final destination on the next day. Similarly Bandra Terminus -Ahmedabad- Ludhiana Parcel Special Rake will also have 10 trips and will leave Bandra and Ludhiana on the simultaneously on April 15, 17, 20, 22 and and will its final destination on the third day., The train will have halt Surat, Vadodara, Anand, Ahmedabad, among other stations in Gujarat. The Porbandar–Ahmedabad- Shalimar Parcel Special will have eight trips. The train will leave leave Porbandar on April 18, 20, 22 and 24 and will reach Shalimar on third day. The train will leave Shalimar on April 24, 22, 24 and 26 for Porbandar and will halt at Jamnagar, Rajkot, Ahmedabad, Anand, Vadodara, Surat in Gujarat. The Ahmedabad–Guwahati parcel special will leave Ahmedabad on April 17, 20, and 23 and will reach Guwahati on third day. The train will leave Guwahati on April 20, 23 and 26 for Ahmedabad. The Kankaria–Cuttack Parcel Special will have two trips and will leave Kankaria on April 17 and reach Cuttack on April 17 and the train will leave Cuttack. Train No 00932 Kankaria- Cuttack parcel special will leave Kankaria at 18.00 hrs on April 15 and reach Cuttack at April 17. The train will leave Cuttack on April 21 and will reach Kankaria on April 22.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/western-railway-to-operate-nine-special-parcel-trains/articleshow/75149234.cms||---
April 15, 2020||Hyderabad||Hyderabad: D-Mart store sealed for flouting social distancing rules||HYDERABAD: The D-Mart store at LB Nagar was sealed by the Greater Hyderabad Municipal Corporation (GHMC) on Tuesday for unregulated customer access and violation of social distancing guideline that have been issued in view of the coronavirus outbreak in the country.  “D-Mart, LB Nagar sealed by enforcement teams for unregulated customer access & violation of social distancing guidelines. Enforcement teams are on field checking for violations. Any such instances may be brought to our notice,” tweeted Viswajit Kampati, director, Directorate of Enforcement Vigilance and Disaster Management of the GHMC. In another tweet he said that the guidelines had been set well in advance and that ample awareness has been created on the same. The store was sealed because ‘blatant violation should and will entail serious consequences’, he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/d-mart-store-sealed-for-flouting-social-distancing-rules/articleshow/75149143.cms||---
April 15, 2020||Bareilly||28 booked for social distancing violation; 1,695 booked so far||Pilibhit: As many as 28 people have been booked for allegedly violating lockdown and social distancing norm in the past 24 hours in two different police stations in Pilibhit district. Police said as many as 1,695 people have so far been booked for violating lockdown since it was imposed. Pilibhit kotwali SHO Shrikant Dwivedi said 23 people were booked under sections 147 (rioting), 188 (disobedience to order duly promulgated by a public servant), 269 (unlawfully or negligently doing any act which is likely to spread the infection of any disease dangerous to life), 270 (malignantly doing any act which is likely to spread the infection of any disease dangerous to life) of IPC and sections 3 & 4 of Epidemic Diseases Act after two separate FIRs were lodged against them. They were detained, but released on filing bonds worth Rs 50,000 each, he added. Similarly, Sungarhi police on Tuesday booked five people who were loitering in a group without masks. They were also booked under the same sections, said Sungarhi SHO Atar Singh. Meanwhile, superintendent of police Abhishek Dixit said police as many as 1,695 people were booked under235 FIRs, so far, for violating restrictions. The SP said police had checked a total of 244 vehicles at 42 barricades in the district since the lockdown was imposed. Of these, challans were issued to 89 bikers and three bikes were impounded. A fine of Rs 5,500 was slapped on the violators, added the SP.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/28-booked-for-social-distancing-violation-1695-booked-so-far/articleshow/75148346.cms||---
April 15, 2020||Kolhapur||People with travel history will be monitored for 28 days: Desai||Kolhapur: Though the 14-day quarantine period of all 820 people, who came to Kolhapur from foreign countries, has been completed, district collector Daulat Desai on Tuesday said that it not the time to relax. Along with the 820, there are around 81,000 people who came to Kolhapur from other cities, including Pune and Mumbai. Of these around 90% have completed their 14-day quarantin. Of the 755 people, currently under quarantine across the district, the throat swab samples of 614 people have come out as negative, while five have tested positive. The report of the remaining 136 people is still awaited. Desai said that the end of 14-day quarantine does not mean that no cases will come up. Citing the example of the person from Shahuwadi said, the district collector said, “The person came to his village on March 17 and was put under quarantine on April 1. He was tested positive on April 5 but he did not show any symptoms. It means that we cannot be sure that the compulsory quarantine of 14 days without any symptoms must be considered safe.” He added, “As part of our strategy we have ensured that people with travel history should be monitored for at least 28 days. Though a large number of people have completed their quarantine period without showing any symptom, we cannot be relieved.” Doctors have advised the administration to follow the strategy of containment, survey and testing. Desai said that for last three weeks any person with new travel history are compulsorily sent to institutional quarantine.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolhapur/people-with-travel-history-will-be-monitored-for-28-days-desai/articleshow/75149139.cms||---
April 15, 2020||Lucknow||Restart of construction work put on hold in UP||LUCKNOW: A day after the state government announced pending construction work in big projects would restart from Wednesday, it had to rollback its decisions following Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s announcement to extend the lockdown till May 3. On Monday, deputy chief minister Keshav Prasad Maurya, who is also chairman of the committee constituted to ensure early resumption of the construction work, had convened a meeting of departmental heads and principal secretaries of half-a-dozen departments and directed them to resume the work from April 15. A press note to this effect was also issued the same day. However, on Tuesday the deputy CM, contradicting his Monday’s order, directed departments concerned not to restart the construction work from Wednesday. In a video message, Maurya said that the work will begin after receiveing fresh guidelines from the Centre in view of the PM’s announcemnt to extend the lockdown. Later, a fresh press note was issued, clearing the government’s stand on the issue. Though some opposition members did pose a question mark over the decision-making process at the highest level, sources in the government said that it was done keeping in mind the people’s interest.Talking to TOI on condition of anonymity some ministers also said that they were not certain whether they would attend offices from Wednesday as decided earlier, after the PM’s direction to observe a complete lockdown. A few days back, chief minister Yogi Adityanath, while addressing ministers and party MLAs via video-conferencing, had hinted at withdrawing some restrictions from April 15. But on Tuesday, the government made it clear that the lockdown would be followed strictly and there would be no relaxation.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/restart-of-construction-work-put-on-hold-in-up/articleshow/75149588.cms||Subhash Mishra
April 15, 2020||Business||Government taps logistics firms to link consumers with kirana shops||NEW DELHI: The government is ready with a scheme to get kirana stores to directly deliver essential goods at your doorstep using the network of logistics firms that have hitherto provided last-mile connectivity to e-commerce companies. The idea is to use messaging platforms such as Whatsapp to connect consumers with kirana stores, who will pay via digital payment tools such as UPI and BHIM. The logistics firms will then pick up grocery and other products from the stores through their network of delivery boys. The Aarogya Setu is proposed to be put to use to avoid any risk in the chain. Consumer data privacy will be maintained. Officials said state governments and local administration can also use the network to deliver grains and pulses from public distribution network to consumers Govt using crisis to help kiranas take on biggiesCurrently, district administration implementing the lockdown across states relying on local traders to supply using e-rickshaws and other modes. The department for promotion of industry and internal trade, which has put in place the technology solution with the help of other stakeholders, has already tested it in six cities, including Varanasi and officials said, the platform will be deployed over the next few days. Manufacturers are being onboarded and aligned for supply of essential commodities, even as tech partners are being roped in for logistics and digitization of their services, sources told TOI. More on Covid-19Coronavirus pandemic: Complete Coverage21-day lockdown: What will stay open and what won'tHow to quarantine yourself at homeTrust the newspaper for your daily verified newsWhile it will help retailers, as well as well producers and wholesalers, meet the demands of consumers, the government also seems to be using the Covid-19 crisis as an opportunity to make kirana stores self-sufficient to take on their much-celebrated rivals - supermarket chains and e-commerce players, who are unable to meet consumer needs during the lockdown. "During the crisis, it has been reiterated through several meetings with industry and government stakeholders that kiranas have stood tall, while the online machinery has collapsed. Online grocery is just 2-5% of overall grocery business. Kiranas are the lifeline. Our sales to kiranas have increased by 50% during this time. At a time when FMCG players are operating at 15-20% capacity, they should be given first preference," said Arvind Mediratta, Metro Cash & Carry India.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/govt-taps-logistics-cos-to-link-consumers-with-kirana-shops/articleshow/75150035.cms||John Sarkar
April 15, 2020||Ahmedabad||Assault accused also booked under Epidemic Act||Ahmedabad: In the times of coronavirus outbreak even anti social elements need to keep social distancing, or else they may suffer a double blow from the legal fist. The case in point is from Juna Koba village of Gandhinagar where four persons, who were accused in a case of physical assault and criminal intimidation, were booked under the Epidemic Act. According to an FIR filed with Infocity police station of Gandhinagar, Mehul Rawal (22) had on April 7 gone to buy grocery along with his elder brother Bhavesh. They were standing in front of a village grocery shop when Ramesh Rawal rushed there and picked up a fight with Bhavesh. Ramesh accused Bhavesh of having an affair with his niece and started beating him up. When Mehul and his cousin Yogesh rushed to Bhavesh’s rescue, Ramesh called his three other family members who attacked Bhavesh, Mehul and Yogesh. Ramesh and his family members had brought sticks with which they attacked Mehul and the two others. After the incident, Mehul lodged a complaint with Infocity police station. “We found that by attacking Mehul and his brothers, Ramesh and his three family members had by default touched the complainant and violated the lockdown order and social distancing norms,” said an official from the Infocity police station.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/assault-accused-also-booked-under-epidemic-act/articleshow/75149232.cms||---
April 15, 2020||Madurai||8 sprayer machines purchased from BHEL||Madurai: Madurai Corporation has purchases four Bhelmister equipment from Bharat Heavy Electricals Limited (BHEL), Ranipet to continue disinfection activities more effectively in the wake of the Covis-19 outbreak. Four more such machines are expected to arrive in a week. Operated with electric power, the equipment has a capacity to pump out 1,000 litres of disinfection materials in one hour. It can blow atomized particles of disinfection chemicals for about 10 metres and cover larger areas in no time. Spending Rs 36.80 lakh from the MLA fund of Madurai East MLA P Moorthy, the corporation has purchased eight Bhelmisters. Each mister cannon is mounted on a mini truck. The vehicles were flagged off in the presence of Madurai corporation commissioner S Visakan, MLA Moorthy and city engineering S Arasu. About 2,000 litres of Lysol required for the mist cannon and 1,000 kg of bleaching powder were purchased at a cost of Rs 3.10 lakh utilising the MLA fund.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/8-sprayer-machines-purchased-from-bhel/articleshow/75149595.cms||---
April 15, 2020||Kolkata||In Covid-19 year, home is where the celebration is||KOLKATA: With nothing much to do, homes turned into pious retreats for all the communities that celebrated new year on Tuesday. Most said that with limited means and a lot of time on hands, they could offer prayers and prasad in the soulful manner. Alongside Bengalis, Tamilians, Malayalis and the Assamese celebrated their new year. Punjabis had their Baisakhi on Monday and Oriyas, their Pana Sankranti. Most woke up early in the morning, bathed and got ready for the puja. Interestingly, while in the other years, they would visit temples to offer flowers and fruits, after paying a cursory obeisance to the family deity, this year the focus was on the home altar. So, even in the lockdown, people gave their best shot at getting the best fruit and flowers for offering. “You cannot have a new year celebration, without an array of seasonal fruits and vegetables. The reason for offering these to the family deity is that, the new year of Puthandu, for Tamilians is basically a harvest festival and the offerings symbolize a good harvest and familial gratitude,” explained Bharti Sundaram. The Assamese celebrated their Bihu by having the customary curd, flattened rice and sweets. A few people went to Assam Bhavan on Russell Street to hoist the Bihu flag, which is believed to be a good omen, explained Deben Dewang, spokesperson of the 150-year-old Assam Socio Literary Club, that has been organizing the flag hoisting every year. Oriyas found it difficult to lay their hands on bel or wood apple this time. It is a must for their Pana Sankranti or Vishuva Sankranti. “The Bel pana is a must, but these are difficult times. HowḤever, lunch was strictly an Oriya traditional thali with white rice, ghee, dalma, potatoes, drumsticks, home-made dahi, chutney and payesh,” said entrepreneur Bijay Lynka. There are at least 3 lakh Punjabis domiciled in the city for whom Baisakhi this year is a muted, stay-at-home affair. For the Sikhs, Baisakhi is observed as Sajana Diwas, when the Khalsa Panth was formed. This year, even visiting gurdwaras is not an option. Most people are praying at home, cooking traditional dishes and sharing these as best as they can. Some people have grouped together to cook at langars so that this food can be distributed among the underprivileged, said Satnam Ahluwalia, who is leading one such group at the Behala Gurudwara.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/in-ncov-yr-home-is-where-the-celebration-is/articleshow/75149594.cms||Jhimli Mukherjee Pandey
April 15, 2020||Kolkata||Man appeals to police to bring son’s body home||HOWRAH: Sheikh Selim Ali (70), a resident of Howrah’s Chatterjeehat, whose migrant worker son, Md Hasan Raja (29), died after a heart attack a week ago in Chennai, on Tuesday appealed to local police station to help him bring Raja’s body back home for last rites. Selim had been informed by officers at the Virugambacom police station in Chennai that his son’s body was lying in the morgue of Kiltuck Medical College and Hospital there. A senior officer from Howrah police said, “We will talk to the state administration to see if a way can be found to bring the body home.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/man-appeals-to-police-to-bring-sons-body-home/articleshow/75149167.cms||---
April 15, 2020||Jaipur||Jaipur graveyards refuse to bury coronavirus victims||JAIPUR: In a new setback to the fight against Covid-19 pandemic, graveyard committees in Jaipur have refused to bury virus victims, fearing the spread of the disease in the community. Families of three Muslims, who have so far died due to coronavirus in Jaipur, had to take the help of the administration to bury them at the Ghat Gate graveyard. The administration and civil society groups have kept an earthmover on the standby at the Ghat Gate graveyard as gravediggers are not ready to dig graves for the deceased Covid-19 patients.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/city-graveyardsrefuse-to-buryvirus-victims/articleshow/75149593.cms||Shoeb Khan
April 15, 2020||Dehradun||Lack of test kits at IVRI delays Covid-19 test of big cats found dead in U'khand||Dehradun: Uttarakhand forest department has decided to send samples of the leopard and the tiger, which were found dead in the state on April 11, to Indian Veterinary Research Institute (IVRI) in Bareilly for Covid-19 test. The move comes in the wake of concerns that animals too might catch the deadly coronavirus. While the cause of death of the leopard in Rajaji Tiger Reserve remains undiagnosed, veterinarian Dr Rajiv Kumar who conducted the post-mortem of the tiger attributes it death to mutual fight. The need to conduct Covid-19 test of these animals was further triggered by the death of around 56 goats in Pauri Garhwal due to a mystery disease. SK Singh, chief veterinary officer of Pauri Garhwal, told TOI that the goats died due to seasonal viral fever as per autopsy report but added that their samples will also be sent to IVRI Bareilly for Covid-19 test. However, the diagnosis of these animals is being delayed as IVRI doesn’t have testing kits. “We have recorded a leopard death recently. We will be sending its sample for Covid-19 test to IVRI after April 15 as they will get testing kits by then,” said Aditi Sharma, veterinarian at Rajaji Tiger Reserve. According to a TOI source in the state forest department, testing kits haven’t been procured by IVRI due to fund crunch. “IVRI was awaiting funds from the Central Zoo Authority (CZA) to procure testing kits. The funds have been released recently. Hopefully, the kits would soon be available with them,” said a senior official of Uttarakhand forest department. IVRI director Dr RK Singh also confirmed that kits aren’t available as yet. “We have ordered around 1,000 kits and very soon we will get them. And if required, we can also do testing by Real Time – Polymerase Chain Reaction (RT-PCR),” said Kumar. Notably, RT-PCR is a sensitive in-vitro method for detecting the presence of specific genetic material from any pathogen, including a virus. However, a veterinarian says that conducting RT-PCR is unlikely at IVRI because the process requires a genome sequence of a positive case to compare it with that of the suspected samples. “In the RT-PCR method, genome sequence is tallied with the sample sequence of an already available positive case, which we don’t have until now. However, in the kit testing method, antibodies are detected with ease unlike the RT-PCR method,” said another veterinarian requesting anonymity. It is worth mentioning that the CZA, on April 6, had authorised three institutes — IVRI in Bareilly, National Research Centre on Equines in Haryana, and National Institute of High Security Animal Disease in Bhopal — for conducting Covid-19 test of animals.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/lack-of-test-kits-at-ivri-delays-covid-19-test-of-big-cats-found-dead-in-ukhand/articleshow/75148375.cms||Shivani Azad
April 15, 2020||Dehradun||Local BJP functionary booked for creating ruckus||Haridwar: A local BJP functionary Preet Kamal Saraswat was booked on Tuesday for misbehaving with a team of government officials which was distributing ration kits to poor people in Govindpuri area under Jawalapur police station jurisdiction. SHO Jawalapur police station Yogesh Dev told TOI, “The accused is the husband of the local councillor of Haridwar Municipal Corporation. He created ruckus during ration distribution and tried to manhandle government officials. A case has been registered against him and further investigation is ongoing.” The accused has been booked under section 188 (disobedience to order duly promulgated by public servant) and section 332 (voluntarily causing hurt to deter public servant from his duty) of the Indian Penal Code and section 51(b) of the Disaster Management Act.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/local-bjp-functionary-booked-for-creating-ruckus/articleshow/75148359.cms||MS Nawaz
April 15, 2020||Jaipur||War room set up at secretariat||Jaipur: The state government on Tuesday constituted a round-the-clock war room at the secretariat to deal with issues arising out of the extended lockdown and other grievances of the public. The war room which will function from library of the secretariat will be manned by two RAS officers and two RPS officers per shift. The order in this regard was issue by Abhay Kumar, principal secretary (information technology and planning) on Tuesday. K K Pathak, secretary (woman and child development) would be the nodal officer. Similarly, 13 IAS officers were designated to coordinate with the states where Rajasthanis were stranded and also to address the problems of the people of other states stranded in Rajasthan.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/war-room-set-up-at-secretariat/articleshow/75149598.cms||---
April 15, 2020||Kolhapur||41,000 residents surveyed in Shahuwadi||KOLHAPUR: The district health office has surveyed over 41,000 residents in the Shahuwadi’s Uchat village after identifying a positive patient, who had an association with the Tablighi Jammat event. Yogesh Sale, district health officer, Kolhapur said that in the containment zone of the index patient’s house has 4,392 families with 17,306 citizens surveyed so far. “In the buffer zone around 6,070 families reside, wherein 24,832 citizens too have been surveyed so far,” he said. Sale said there are 41 teams conducting a survey in the containment zone, while in the buffer zone, 80 teams have been deployed. He added that they are still awaiting the swab sample reports of around 80 people associated with the positive patient. “The next course of action can only be decided only after we receive the report,” said Sale. A 30-year-old man from a village in the Shahuwadi taluka in Kolhapur, who attended Tablighi Jamaat event in March, was tested positive for Covid-19 infection on April 9. His mother too tested positive on April 11, while his father’s sample was tested negative.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolhapur/41k-residents-surveyed-in-shahuwadi/articleshow/75149152.cms||---
April 15, 2020||Bareilly||BMC to distribute 1.5k food packets slums||Bareilly: The Bareilly Municipal Corporation (BMC) will distribute around 1,500 food packets and rations among slum dwellers every day during the lockdown period. Officials at BMC said with the lockdown period being extended, the civic body has decided to serve the poor people who no longer have the means to earn their daily wages. Therefore, around 1,500 food packets will be distributed among people living in areas such as Ejaz Nagar, Gautiya, Nekpur, and Harunagla. Bareilly municipal commissioner Abhishek Anand told TOI, “In an attempt to ensure that maximum people, especially the destitute, are provided with food daily till the lockdown is lifted, we have decided to move to slum areas of the city and distribute food among the needy. We have set a target of distributing 1,000-1,500 food packets daily. The food will be cooked at our community kitchens." The municipal commissioner added, “The corporation workers have been directed to take all precautionary measures and maintain social distancing while they visit different parts of the city and meet people. They have been asked to wear face masks and use gloves while distributing food as well use a sanitiser to clean their hands." Anand added, “With the extension of the lockdown period, labour class, homeless people and others will be facing more challenges. To ensure that they don’t starve during this period, we have given top priority to food distribution in these areas to these people.” According to BMC sources, the civic body has been running community kitchens at the BMC office premises and Harunagla shelter home and a few NGOs and other organisations have also joined in to assist the corporation. “Many have joined hands with us and are contributing to our community kitchens by either providing grocery items or getting cooked food and distributing it among the needy,” Anand added. ===||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/bmc-to-distribute-1-5k-food-packets-slums/articleshow/75148393.cms||Maria Khan
April 15, 2020||Dehradun||Stuck in under-construction building in Delhi & living on scraps, relief for Nainital couple as govt distributes ration||Dehradun: When thousands of migrant workers in Delhi/NCR walked to their native towns earlier this month, Gopal Singh Bisht was tempted to leave as well. But his wife was pregnant and in no condition to walk the 300-odd kilometres they would have to cover from Delhi to their native village in Nainital. “We heard the lockdown would be over soon and there was anyway no transport so we decided to stay here,” said Bisht, 25, who worked at a food stall before the lockdown. Two weeks ago, his wife, Mehak, gave birth to a girl in a tin shed they call home. The tin shed is part of an under-construction building next to Barkhandi Temple near Old Delhi Railway station where 25-odd families of construction workers have been living in dire straits. Many have had little food to eat. “We didn’t have ration cards so we could not get food under any schemes of the government,” said Bisht, who hails from Khairna village. His wife added, “Since I was barely eating anything, there was hardly any breastmilk for my daughter to feed on.” With earnings down to zero and no ration at home, Bisht had to sell their meagre belongings. Cell phones were the first to go and then household items went one by one. For days, they survived on dried pooris they ate once a day. On Tuesday, however, many along with Bisht and his wife had their first full meal in days after a television report highlighted their ordeal and an AAP MLA reached the site with provisions. Timarpur MLA Dilip Kumar Pandey said the government is taking measures to ensure food reaches those who don’t have ration cards. “People without ration cards can get temporary ration coupons or eat at our meal centres. Those I met on Tuesday told me they had tried to visit our meal centre nearby but were scolded by police for not following lockdown norms and thus got scared and stayed home," he told TOI. Shankar Singh, a construction worker, said no one in the compound earned more than Rs 200 a day, so people hardly had savings. “Now that we have food, the government should also distribute soap so we can stay infection-free too," he said. The state government also sent a doctor to conduct health check-ups of the newborn and the mother. The infant was found to be healthy. The parents have named the girl Lakshmi (Goddess of money) for the “good luck” she has brought — they now have atta, daal, oil and potatoes.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/stuck-in-under-construction-building-in-delhi-living-on-scraps-relief-for-nainital-couple-as-govt-distributes-ration/articleshow/75148367.cms||Ishita Mishra
April 15, 2020||Bhopal||Chhatarpur ‘social worker’ turns bootlegger at night||BHOPAL: While during the day he would be serving society as a ‘social worker’, at night he would slip under the cover of darkness and operate a liquor cartel in town of Naugaon. On Monday, however, his operation came to an end after Chhatarpur police busted his gang. According to police, Manoj Sahu, a former liquor contractor and property dealer, made use of the announcement of the initial 21-day lockdown in the last week of March to smuggle 55 crates of country-made liquor to a border village in Uttar Pradesh from Chhattarpur district’s Naugaon. But even as he was involved in a cross-border racket, Sahu would keep himself active in other ways as well. During the day time, Manoj would distribute food packets among the poor in Naugaon town. He also allegedly got involved some influential people from the town in the distribution of food. But in the night, police alleged, Sahu would run a liquor cartel. The liquor bottles hidden in the border villages would be smuggled from Naugaon at double the rates. This would involve three more persons, police said. SHO of Naugaon police station Virendra Sharma said, two persons were arrested including Rohit Yadav, a bootlegger, and Sukh Singh, a local man helping Rohit. However, the kingpin Manoj Sahu is on the run. Of the 55 crates of liquor hidden in the bordering village, Sahu had succeeded in smuggling 25 crates. The police have confiscated the remaining.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/chhatarpur-social-worker-turns-bootlegger-at-night/articleshow/75149157.cms||---
April 15, 2020||Madurai||Tamil Nadu: Hospitals attend to many kids sustaining injuries playing indoors||MADURAI: Children may be more prone to sustaining injuries while playing outdoors, but a number of them have been making trips to hospitals during the lockdown with a range of accidental injuries indoors. Some of the common injuries sustained at home include cuts, abrasions, simple fractures and burns. "Children are frustrated at home because of the lockdown. Most of the accidents we deal with include cuts and lacerations, particularly on the head due to tripping and falling. We had a couple of burn injury cases too," said Dr Sathish Devadoss, medical director and chief orthopaedic surgeon, Devadoss multispeciality hospital. The doctor added that though the total number of such cases might still be marginal, it could be because many were unwilling to come to hospitals now unless it is an emergency. Parents admit that their children are prone to accidents at home since they cannot watch them 24x7. "I’m a software professional with kids aged 9 and 12 and currently working from home. My wife is also busy with household work. We try our best to keep a tab on our kids but it is not possible to keep an eye on them always. One of them may suddenly cry and we won’t be able to figure out how they got injured at times," said Ganesh Kumar R, a parent. Doctors at a private hospital exclusively dedicated to eye care said they were getting at least one paediatric eye trauma case a day since the lockdown. "Generally, injuries to the eye among children happen at home than outside. Children tend to be mischievous and playful, particularly those aged between 6-14. We got a number of cases of children hurting their eyes with objects like sticks. Surprisingly, there was even one case of a fire cracker injury. Children also have a tendency to not notice when they get injuries," said Dr N Venkatesh Prajna, chief of cornea and refractive surgery, Aravind Eye Hospital. He added that more boys than girls tend to be victims of household injuries. Doctors are urging parents to keep their home safe for children during lockdown by keeping them engaged and under supervision. "Children don’t run into trouble or hurt themselves if they are occupied. Board exams, yoga, exercise or playing simple games on terrace under parental supervision are great ways to stay safe and engage children," said Dr Sathish.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/hosps-attend-to-many-kids-sustaining-injuries-playing-indoors/articleshow/75149597.cms||Sukshma Ramakrishnan
April 15, 2020||Mangaluru||Guidelines issued for traditional fishing||Udupi: With the Covid-19 lockdown in force, considering fish to be an essential commodity, the district administration allowed traditional fishing from April 10, but imposed a set of rules on fishermen. Fishermen from Byndoor taluk, who have the most country boats in the district, were unhappy over this. They did not like it that a time limit was fixed to catch and sell fish. They demanded common guidelines for fishermen in the entire district. Accordingly, deputy commissioner G Jagadeesha approved common guidelines for fishermen on Tuesday . Udupi deputy director of fisheries, Ganesh, said that the guidelines include conditions like only 10HP boats be used for fishing, only 5 fishermen be allowed in a boat, and that the fish could be unloaded at 19 landing points identified by the fisheries department. No boats are allowed in the port or jetty. The catch must be sold either in wholesale or at the doorsteps of customers. They are allowed to sell it on a landing point like beaches. Fishermen can fix prices through an association. If anyone is found selling fish at exorbitant prices, their boat licence will be cancelled, state the guidelines. “Fishing and selling activities should end by 11 am. The local administration can lend support if fishermen want to set up a market where social distancing can be maintained. We have such a model market at Palliguda ground in Koda gram panchayat limits,” said Ganesh .||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mangaluru/guidelines-issued-for-traditional-fishing/articleshow/75146285.cms||---
April 15, 2020||Mumbai||Pvt hosps treating only 10% of Covid cases||Bengaluru: India has over 10,000 Covid-19 positive cases and government hospitals are taking care of bulk of the treatment, with private players and, consequently, health insurance playing a smaller role so far. Sources, including National Health Authority (NHA) officials, said that around 10% of cases are undergoing treatment in private hospitals. “The reason that most of the cases are being treated at government hospitals could be because state governments are actively tracking, testing and ensuring treatment for the positive cases. There is, however, a small number of people who opting for private healthcare,” said a top NHA official. And the cases where treatments are covered under health insurance are fewer — just 2% of total cases in India. As of Monday, General Insurance Council (GIC) reported about 200 Covid-19 claims to the Finance Ministry against 10,586 total cases. Private hospitals’ networks like Private Hospitals & Nursing Homes Association (PHANA), said that no uniform treatment protocol has been agreed upon and if AIIMS or the state governments come up with recommendations, they will likely follow the same. AIIMS set up a task force last week to set up a uniform protocol for hospital treatment of Covid-19. Even insurance companies, via GIC, have sent suggestions to Insurance Regulatory and Development Authority of India (IRDAI) and the finance ministry, asking that hospitals follow a set procedure for treatment of Covid-19 cases so that rack rates can be agreed upon. Right now, treatment for Covid-19 cases at private hospital treatment costs anywhere between Rs 4.5 to Rs 10 lakh. “We have given our recommendations, but we have received no update. The number of cases is still too low for us to be worried,” said a CMD of a general insurance company. When asked about patients being affected by artificial inflation of bills by private hospitals said insurers the CMD said, “If the hospital is not a partner, then there could be issues at the time of reimbursement”. Insurers have agreed that adding costs to the final bill will be testing. “The cost is about Rs 4,500 per test and one must remember this isn’t a one-time cost. The patient gets tested every two days till the tests indicate a negative result,” said CEO of a private insurance firm.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/pvt-hosps-treating-only-10-of-covid-cases/articleshow/75149608.cms||Rachel Chitra
April 15, 2020||Jaipur||Jaipur: Fresh guidelines to segregate patients||JAIPUR: Increasing Covid-19 cases in Jaipur has prompted the medical and health department to issue guidelines for separation of suspected, asymptomatic and other cases. The decision was taken to check the infection and also to segregate suspected and positive patients properly. Till 5.30 pm pn Tuesday, the city had 441 positive cases with 71 being added in the day. Additional chief secretary (health) Rohit Kumar Singh issued the special guidelines. “According to the new instructions, patients with corona infection symptoms and above 60 years of age and suffering from any other serious diseases will be admitted to Sawai Mansingh Hospital, Rajasthan University of Health Sciences (RUHS), Mahatma Gandhi Hospital or Sitapura Hospital for treatment,” said an officer. All patients infected with corona infection but are asymptomatic will be be admitted to NIMS Medical College, Government Jaipuria Hospital and ESI Model Hospital. Similarly, suspects of corona infection will not be sent for quarantine in RUHS but to other scheduled quarantine centres. “District collector has been asked to make special arrangements in this regard,” said a senior officer. Singh in the order also said patients coming from various parts of Rajasthan will no longer be referred to SMS Hospital. “They should be treated in the district hospitals as per the guidelines of the Centre and the state government. During surveys to be done at the community level, patients are classified according to the check list prescribed by the physician in-charge of the medical team or the physician of the primary health centre or community health centre or dispensary of the area,” the order said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/fresh-guidelines-to-segregate-covid-19-symptomatic-and-asymptomatic-cases/articleshow/75149610.cms||---
April 15, 2020||Lucknow||UP CM: Book hoarders under NSA Act||LUCKNOW: Chief minister Yogi Adityanath said on Tuesday that anyone caught indulging in black-marketing and hoarding of food and under weighing should be charged under the Gangsters Act and National Security Act. Addressing divisional commissioners, district magistrates and senior police officials through video conferencing on Tuesday night, CM Yogi said the second phase of food distribution has to start from April 15, along with wheat purchase. He said no illegal activity should be tolerated in this time of crisis and would invite strictest punishment.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/cm-book-hoarders-under-nsa-act/articleshow/75149609.cms||---
April 15, 2020||Goa||Approach Int’l & nat’l orgs: IMO||Margao: The International Maritime Organisation (IMO) has advised the Goan Seafarers Association of India (GSAI) to pursue the matter of Indian seafarers stranded abroad with the International Labour Organisation, national maritime administration of India and relevant trade union organisations. IMO, however, assured GSAI of bringing the issue to the attention of representatives of relevant NGOs.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/approach-intl-natl-orgs-imo/articleshow/75149607.cms||---
April 15, 2020||Dehradun||Police, PAC hold flag march in Banbhoolpura||Nainital: A team of Nainital Police and Provincial Armed Constabulary (PAC) held a flag march in the Banbhoolpura locality of Haldwani on Tuesday morning. The flag march came a day after the locality was put under curfew by the state government. Speaking to TOI, police said that to enforce the curfew, two companies each of Rapid Action Force (RAF) and PAC have been stationed in the area along with adequate police force. “The purpose of the flag march was to inform people to stay inside their homes and cooperate with the administration. It is necessary that the curfew is enforced without glitches,” said DIG Kumaon, Jagatram Joshi. Around a thousand people had gathered on the streets of Banbhoolpura on Sunday after a rumour started doing the rounds on social media that the local religious leaders were being taken by the police to a quarantine facility in Lamachaur. However, officials termed the news as ‘fake’ and the situation was soon brought under control. Meanwhile, as the health teams visited the area on Tuesday, several locals again showered them with flowers and clapped in appreciation. Police officials on the other hand said they are in touch with the religious leaders from the area to make sure that the rumours do not spread again.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/police-pac-hold-flag-march-in-banbhoolpura/articleshow/75148390.cms||Prashant Jha
April 15, 2020||Madurai||Madurai Kamaraj University offers guest house for quarantining patients||MADURAI: Madurai Kamaraj University (MKU) has offered its guest house to the district administration for quarantining suspected Covid-19 patients. MKU vice-chancellor Dr M Krishnan said, “We have offered one guest house, which has 90 beds with attached toilets. The facility has been disinfected and kept ready,” he said. If required, the university may also provide 100 rooms of its hostel for quarantining purpose. The Government Rajaji Hospital (GRH) is getting supply of microbiological mediums from MKU for Covid-19 testing. The university has also provided two real-time polymerase chain reaction (RT-PCR) machines, one each to GRH and Theni Medical College Hospital, for processing the samples for the testing. MKU now plans to rope in its NSS volunteers along with MS Chellamuthu Trust and Research Foundation, Madurai, and National Institute of Mental Health and Neurosciences (NIMHANS) Bangalore, to give them training to help spread message to prevent Covid-19, particularly in rural areas. “NIMHANS has prepared a document on the impact of Covid-19 and its prevention. The NSS volunteers will attend a 3-day online training by NIMHANS starting Wednesday at our auditorium keeping social distancing. We will then reach out to people with the programs,” said Dr Krishnan. The university is also set to launch a helpline with MS Chellamthu Trust and Research Foundation on Wednesday to help people connect with qualified psychiatrists to provide counselling during lockdown.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/mku-offers-guest-house-for-quarantining-patients/articleshow/75149599.cms||---
April 15, 2020||Dehradun||Kashmiri workers, stuck in Pauri Garhwal hills for days, seek govt’s help||DEHRADUN: Stuck in Satpuli area of Pauri Garhwal district for 24 days, 10 workers from Kashmir had sought government’s help as they have no money left to buy daily essentials. These men were working at road construction site in Pauri Garhwal when the lockdown was imposed. Initially, they managed with the money they had but now they seek aid from the government as they have no money left to buy ration. They have been living in a tent since March 22. These workers had come to Uttarakhand in November, last year. Before coming to Pauri Garhwal, they had been working at a construction site near Mussoorie. “We have already spent all money that we had earned. Left with no option, we had to purchase ration from a village shop on credit. But we can’t do that anymore as we don’t know when will we be able to earn money and payback our dues to the shopkeeper. We have heard that the lockdown has been extended. We just want to go back to our homes now,” said Mohammed Shareek, a migrant worker from Kashmir. Taking cognisance of the plight of these workers, Nasir Khuehami, spokesperson of Jammu and Kashmir Student Association, took to twitter and sought help from people. “The local administration contacted me to inform that they were provided with food. However, they will be able to go back to their homes only after the lockdown,” said Khuehami.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/kashmiri-workers-stuck-in-pauri-garhwal-hills-for-days-seek-govts-help/articleshow/75148388.cms||Ishita Mishra
April 15, 2020||Hyderabad||Hyderabad: Techie trio curates & supplies grocery kits to families in need||HYDERABAD: A trio of techies based in Cyberabad has started a group named ‘For the people’ to transport grocery kits to migrant workers and families in need, in Cyberabad and surrounding areas. The group, which uses a mini-truck to make deliveries, has helped around 200 families in Izzatnagar and Mettuguda each, and 100 in Ameerpet and Moti Nagar each.  “When we realized that there are more than 1,000 migrant workers in Cyberabad itself and decided to help,” Anu Ganti, human resource professional, member of the group told TOI. “Each grocery kit cost us Rs 483. As of now, we are focusing on helping migrant workers who haven’t received government benefits yet,” she added.  “Praveen Kumar, DCP, Cyberabad police helped us get the trucks. We first place the order at the grocery store and then call the area station for a van/truck. I go to the store to oversee the loading of kits and then district them with the help of police personnel and volunteers,” Ganesh Bandi, a member said.  The trio is also distributing face masks, sanitisers and mosquito repellent creams to the on-duty police personnel. “Initially, we used our own funds and now we are trying to crowdfund the initiative,” said Alekhya Robbi, the third member of the group, adding that they have received funds from the company they work for.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/techie-trio-curates-supplies-grocery-kits-to-families-in-need/articleshow/75149191.cms||Arya Sharan
April 15, 2020||Vadodara||Nagarwada alone heads for three-figure mark||Vadodara: Nagarwada-Saiyedpura area, city’s first Covid red zone’ is heading towards the three-figure mark. In 24 hours ending on Tuesday evening, the city witnessed addition of six new cases taking up the total number of positive cases since the outbreak to 114. Of this, as many as 96 are from the densely populated narrow bylanes of Nagarwada-Saiyedpura stretch even as results of samples collected of other suspects from the same area are pending confirmation. Coronavirus cases in this area, which was declared as containment zone on April 5, are spiralling at an alarming rate ever since first case – that of a 54-year-old male – surfaced from here. In fact, 96 cases that were recorded by Tuesday evening, have surfaced within nine days as district administration had decided to go with mass sampling exercise. The number of positive cases from the family of first positive patient from the area – Bhargav Patni (27) – who passed away on Sunday has also increased. On Tuesday, the deceased’s 81-year-old grandfather tested positive while his mother, father and uncle are already under treatment at GMERS Medical College and Hospital, Gotri. Meanwhile, more cases are surfacing from Karelibaug area as well. After a 40-year-old Karelibaug resident tested positive on Monday, two other family members, including her 73-year-old father-in-law and 15-year-old daughter too tested positive of the virus. Gorwa area has also witnessed its first case as a 42-year-old female resident of Kuresha Park, located right behind Gorwa police station, tested positive on Tuesday. Nagarwada counts for 96 cases, while Karelibaug and Bahar Colony, Ajwa Road count for three cases each. Gorwa, Tandalja Road, Makarpura, Sevasi Road, Mogalwada and Panigate have witnessed one case each, while four cases had also surfaced from Nizampura in the past.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/nagarwada-alone-heads-for-three-figure-mark/articleshow/75148480.cms||Prashant Rupera
April 15, 2020||Mangaluru||Two held for spreading hate through social media||Mangaluru: Mangaluru city police arrested two people for spreading hate messages that have a potential to incite, related to the Covid-19 pandemic, and also inflammatory contents against the highest functionaries of the government of India, including Prime Minister Narendra Modi and home minister Amit Shah. The arrested accused are Muhammed Ilyas and Abdul Basheer. P S Harsha, city police commissioner, said that they were members of the Facebook page Mikalto Bisaya. They are part of a big gang that operates this social media page, he said. Harsha said that while being interrogated they confessed to be affiliated with PFI/ SDPI, and have given details of a broader network working behind this social media page. The city cybercrime police team is tracking all those involved with this group, and a few of the accused are also outside the state. He added that such accused will be dealt with iron hands, and that legal action will be initiated against them. They have been charged under provisions of Epidemic Diseases Act 1897, section 67, Information Technology Act, Section 54, Disaster Management Act 2005, and sectiosn 188, 153 and 505 of the Indian Penal Code. Boy returns gold ring found in food packet A boy from Puttur has won hearts after he returned a gold ring he found in a food packet distributed by from Puttur MLA Sanjeev Matandoor’s Covid-19 war room. The incident took place on Monday. The boy, Hukas, the son of Haneef, found a gold ring while opening a food packet. The food kit was distributed by Premalatha Nandila in her ward. He returned the same to Premalatha. Upon checking, it was learnt that the ring belonged to Ramachandra Ghate, who was preparing food kits in the war room.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mangaluru/two-held-for-spreading-hate-through-social-media/articleshow/75147247.cms||---
April 15, 2020||Jaipur||Cases in Rajasthan cross 1,000 mark as CM Ashok Gehlot focuses on hotspot Jaipur||JAIPUR: With 108 more Covid-19 cases reported from the state, including 83 from Jaipur, the number of coronavirus patients climbed to 1,005 in Rajasthan on Tuesday. In the city, 67 positive cases were found in Ramganj and its localities such as Koyala Wali Gali, Mehro Ka Raasta, Nayakon ka Mohalla, Jaganath Shah Ka Raasta, New Madina Masjid and Char Darwaja. This included two police constables of the Ramganj police station and a driver of a van of the health department. “Apart from this, 14 cases were found from the MD Road area and one each from Kho Nagorian and Raja Park locality,” said a senior health department official. With the spike in the number of positive cases, chief minister Ashok Gehlot directed officials to tackle the spread of the virus in the Walled City area on a war-footing. The CM’s direction came at a review meeting with officials after Prime Minister Narendra Modi extended the lockdown to May 3. ‘Earmark more buildings to quarantine suspected cases’Jaipur: Thirteen blocks in the Walled City have so far reported 321 cases and emerged as the hotspot in the state. The district administration has been using electric rickshaws to provide ration and other essential services in the congested area of the old city which is under curfew. Gehlot asked officials to earmark more buildings to quarantine suspected Covid-19 cases as the situation in Jaipur continues to be grim. He directed officials to identify vacant buildings of the state housing board complexes with adequate power and water connections. He said there was no shortage of resources. Chief secretary D B Gupta suggested further tightening of the curfew in the area and strengthening the system of supplying food and other essentials to keep people indoors. Ajitabh Sharma, the officer incharge of monitoring the operation in Jaipur, said sample testing has been intensified and areas that have reported positive cases have been sealed as part of the containment strategy. T Ravikant, JDC, who is entrusted with the task of finding quarantine facilities, said theres was currently quarantine facility for 20,000 people. An additional facility for 5,000 more have been arranged at Mahala and Nayala areas on the outskirts of the city, he said. Two constables of Ramganj police station, who were helping medical teams with their survey, also tested positive for Covid-19. “Earlier, we had one constable each testing positive from Manak Chowk and Kotwali police station areas of the Walled City. With this, we have four of our men infected. I will appeal again to the public to follow the lockdown as our men are working tirelessly for the safety of the city,” said city police commisssioner Anand Srivastav. Since the first positive case of an Italian tourist was reported on March 2, Jaipur so far has 453 Covid-19 cases. “We have been focusing on the Walled City, especially Ramganj, and also other areas, including Raja Park,” said an official. Meanwhile, among others who tested positive in the state is a two-year-old infant from Pokhran in Jaisalmer. “His uncle had tested positive earlier,” said a senior official from Jaisalmer. Apart from 83 cases in Jaipur, 13 were reported from Jodhpur, eight from Kota, two from Jhalawar and one each from Jaisalmer and Jhunjhunu. So far, the state’s health department has collected 34,928 samples, with 1,005 testing positive for Covid-19, 29,376 testing negative, and 4,547 cases awaiting results.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/cases-in-raj-cross-1k-mark-ascm-focuses-on-hotspot-jaipur/articleshow/75149605.cms||---
April 15, 2020||Allahabad||UP CM: Book hoarders under NSA Act||LUCKNOW: Chief minister Yogi Adityanath said on Tuesday that anyone caught indulging in black-marketing and hoarding of food and under weighing should be charged under the Gangsters Act and National Security Act. Addressing divisional commissioners, district magistrates and senior police officials through video conferencing on Tuesday night, CM Yogi said the second phase of food distribution has to start from April 15, along with wheat purchase. He said no illegal activity should be tolerated in this time of crisis and would invite strictest punishment.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/allahabad/cm-book-hoarders-under-nsa-act/articleshow/75154150.cms||---
April 15, 2020||Dehradun||Uttarakhand: Labourer unable to pay for groceries shot dead||ROORKEE: A 24-year-old labourer, Suhaib Qureshi, was shot dead on Tuesday after he failed to pay a grocery store owner for some items he had purchased. According to police, five persons have been booked in the case. Having recently lost employment due the national lockdown, Qureshi was unable to pay the shopkeeper, Tahir. On Tuesday 8 am, Qureshi was passing the shop in Laksar near Roorkee when Tahir asked him to pay up and an altercation ensued between the two. Tahir’s son then emerged with a country-made pistol from the shop and shot at Qureshi before fleeing the spot. Qureshi was rushed to the civil hospital in Haridwar, where doctors declared him dead. An FIR was lodged in the case based on the complaint of the deceased’s brother Shahnaz against Tahir, his sons Aarif, Intezar, Ajaz and grandson Shahbaz. “Five persons have been booked for murder, all of whom are absconding. We are raiding every possible hideout they could have chosen,” said senior sub inspector Abhinav Sharma from Laksar police station.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/labourer-unable-to-pay-for-groceries-shot-dead/articleshow/75148381.cms||Tapan Susheel
April 15, 2020||Hyderabad||Hospital declaration for non-Covid cases likely in Telangana||HYDERABAD: The declaration form process initiated by several hospitals across the country for non-Covid patients may be adopted in Telangana also. “This is being debated among all doctors and the hospitals may soon insist on the form,” a city doctor said. The declaration form says that when non-Covid patients come for urgent treatments for cancer, kidney and other serious ailments, they must sign on this declaration form, not holding the doctors responsible. The form states that patients will have to take care of themselves to protect them from Covid-19 patients. While doctors will take safety protection measures, the form makes it clear that patients should be aware that they could contract coronavirus from staff or medical personnel. TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/hosp-declaration-for-non-covid-cases-likely-in-t/articleshow/75149171.cms||---
April 15, 2020||Goa||Elderly told to avoid visiting hosps, teleconsult instead||Panaji: The ministry of social justice and empowerment has advised senior citizens, especially those with underlying medical conditions, to avoid visiting hospital for routine checkups and followups. The ministry has instead advised them to hold teleconsultations with their doctors and avoid self medicating. Those above 60 with medical complications have been told to avoid entertaining visitors, going to crowded places, including parks, markets and religious places. At the same time they have been asked to remain active within their houses and consider light exercises and yoga at home. The seniors have also been advised to consume adequate quantity of water during the summer to avoid dehydration and eat nutritious food. For their mental well being they have been instructed not to isolate themselves, but to interact with their family members and friends through telephone and videoconferencing as well as rediscover old hobbies. They have also been cautioned against accessing unreliable sources of information and consuming tobacco, alcohol and other drugs. Those who experience a change in their mental status, are excessively drowsy during the day, not responding, speaking inappropriately, unable to recognise relatives, have been asked to access the helpline 08046110007. The helpline is to be contacted also if it is found that the elderly have symptoms of fever, with or without body ache, continuous cough, shortness of breath, unusually poor appetite and inability to feed. The ministry has also provided guidelines for caregivers of the elderly, advising them to wash hands and use a mask while attending to them, frequently clean surfaces used by them, including walking cane, walker, wheelchair and bed pan. Those suffering from fever, cough, breathing difficulty have been asked to stay away from them. They have also been advised not to keep the elderly completely bed bound.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/elderly-told-to-avoid-visiting-hosps-teleconsult-instead/articleshow/75149614.cms||---
April 15, 2020||Dehradun||Uttarakhand: Balloon seller dies in cylinder blast||RUDRAPUR: A 60-year-old balloon seller was killed in a helium gas cylinder explosion on Tuesday evening. The accident occurred when the victim was shifting the cylinder from one room to the other in his house in Kashipur town of Udham Singh Nagar district. The deceased has been identified as Mohammad Farooq, a resident of Hazrat Nagar Colony at Gange Baba Road. The police have confirmed that the deceased was shifting helium-filled cylinders but they exploded in the process giving him fatal injuries. He was rushed to a nearby hospital by his neighbours where he was pronounced "brought dead" by doctors. The police have sent the body for postmortem. Notably, the victim was shifting the cylinders to a safer part of the house knowing that he would not use them until the lockdown is lifted.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/balloon-seller-dies-in-cylinder-blast/articleshow/75148402.cms||Aakash Ahuja
April 15, 2020||Kolkata||Over 100 arrested for stepping out without masks in West Bengal||KOLKATA: More than 130 people, who had stepped out of their homes without wearing masks, were arrested on Tuesday - two days after the state government had issued an order making it compulsory for everyone to cover their mouths and noses with clothes while being out on roads. While 37 persons were arrested in the central division, mostly from the areas like Posta and Taltala, 32 others were arrested in South division, mainly from the Kalighat and Bhowanipore areas. Around 20 people were arrested in the south east division and 12 others were arrested in south west division, mainly from Haridevpur and Behala markets. The violators were booked under IPC section 188 (disobedience to order duly promulgated by public servant) and section 66 of Kolkata Police Act (committing offences in public streets). With both the sections being bailable, they were let go after paying a penalty and were also given masks to wear before leaving. At the places like Tollygunge, Thakurpukur and Kalighat, where arrests were not made, cops stopped people entering grocery markets without masks. In other areas like Lake Market, cops took the offenders to local outpost and warned them of arrest, if they make the mistake again.  “We are following the chief minister’s instruction to be strict but not to overdo something that can multiply people’s suffering. Hence, we had been campaigning across the city from Monday, asking everyone to wear masks while going out on emergency. From now, we will not allow anyone to step on the road without a mask and take necessary action if required,” said a senior officer at Lalbazar. At the Naka check points in front of Alipore Zoo, Behala police station, Hazra crossing, Rasbehari Avenue crossing, Esplanade, Ultadanga, Girish Park and MG Road crossings, cops ensured everyone inside the cars had put on masks, apart from checking their relevant documents and emergency reasons for stepping out during the lockdown. If anyone was found not wearing a mask, cops made them take a U-turn and sent them back to the direction, from where they had come. Meanwhile on Tuesday, Kolkata Police commissioner Anuj Sharma sent a new directive to OCs and additional OCs asking them to ensure that strict adherence to social distancing is maintained at markets and bylanes. “The OCs and additional OCs will be held accountable if cameras and drones catch violations,” said a Lalbazar top brass officer. According to sources, each area has been divided among the additional CPs and joint CPs to keep a close watch. “There were reports of several non-essential item shops opening in specific areas. The saloons were the biggest offenders. Thus, we have taken action against all such offenders at Garfa and Shyambazar areas,” said another senior officer. On the road, the bigger nakas were coordinated with smaller ones that came up inside the bylanes across Chitpur, Cossipore, Bhowanipore and Ballygunge. Senior police officers kept sharing drone footages of sensitive areas like Metiabruz and images of multiple zones, from where the complaints of lockdown violation had been reported in the last few days. “The study of the photographs taken by the drones helped us strategize for the coming days. We have also decided to involve the association members of some big highrises to put up adequate posters regarding market rules in their respective compounds,” said another officer at Lalbazar.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/over-100-arrested-for-stepping-out-without-masks/articleshow/75149182.cms||Tamaghna Banerjee
April 15, 2020||Jaipur||Railways to give full refunds, airlines offering credit shell refunds||edited (284 words) Jaipur: Following Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s announcement to extend the lockdown till May 3, the North Western Railway (NWR) has given some flexibility in ticket cancellation rules. Various flight operators are, however, not giving refunds and are offering credit shell of the total value of tickets and asking passengers to utilise that in a year. As the previous lockdown period was till April 14, the railways and airline operators were taking bookings from April 15 onwards. “My mother had gone to attend a wedding in Indore and we had booked her return tickets for April 16. However, with the extension of lockdown, we will have to ask her to stay back,” said Paritosh Dave, a data analyst in a multinational company here. Authorities of the NWR said passengers who had booked their tickets for April 15 and onwards will get free refunds. “For those who had bought e-tickets will directly get the refund amount in their accounts,” said an officer. The refund would be automatically generated for passengers who had booked tickets for April 15 to May 3, according to the NWR sources. During the lockdown booking offices of the NWR would also remain closed. However the goods trains carrying essential commodities would continue as per needs. On the other hand, various airlines have not given any refunds in case of cancellation of flights. “We are giving credit shell voucher to our customers who have planned their journey during their previous and upcoming lockdown period. The amount they have paid to us can be utilised by them within a period of one year,” said an airlines operator in Jaipur. However, passengers felt cheated with this policy of the airlines. “They have cancelled the flight thus they are bound to give us refunds. Neither their call centres nor their local offices are responding,” said a customer at Jaipur airport.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/railways-to-give-full-refunds-airlines-offering-credit-shell-refunds/articleshow/75149615.cms||---
April 15, 2020||Kolhapur||25 of Islampur family recover from infection||KOLHAPUR: All the 25 members of an Islampur family including a two-year-old toddler, who had tested positive for Covid-19, have now recovered from the infection. Of the 25 members who had tested positive for the contagion between March 23 and 28, atleast four people were above 60 years and two of them aged 2 and 5. Those falling in the age-groups below 5 years and above 60 years are more susceptible to the infection due to their low immunity. There were three others who were aged above 50. Of the 25 family members, 11 were female and 14 male. All the positive patients were treated at Miraj Government Medical College and Hospital in Sangli district. Last week, 24 family members had already cleared the tests conducted after the isolation period. However, parents of the two-year-old toddler decided to stay with him as his isolation course was yet to be completed. On Sunday, the toddler was tested for the infection along with his parents. The reports arrived on Monday which confirmed that all three of them are now free from the infection. One of the patients said that it was the positive outlook of the medical staff that kept them going and made their early recovery possible. District collector Abhijeet Chaudhary attributed their recovery to the early detection of the cases— a factor that helped prevent the spread of the infection. “We are observing the global scenario. There have been a few reports where the infection has relapsed in patients who have already recovered. Hence, we are going to keep the family members in quarantine for another 14 days as a precautionary measure,” said Chaudhary. The family members have been kept in an institutional quarantine facility, where their health is being monitored. Now, only one close contact of one of the family members is admitted in the isolation ward. Meanwhile, Chaudhary said that all the 30 close contacts who had come in contact with Mumbai-based senior citizens in Rethare Dharan have tested negative.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolhapur/25-of-islampur-family-recover-from-infection/articleshow/75149187.cms||Piyush Bhusari
April 15, 2020||Ahmedabad||Various communities celebrate New Year at home||Ahmedabad: In mid-April, people from other states who call Ahmedabad their home celebrate their New Year with feasts and festivities. In the lockdown, on Tuesday, Punjabis celebrated Baisakhi; Bengalis, Poila Boisakh; Assamese, Rongali Bihu; Malayalees, Vishu; and Tamils, Puthandu. Though the celebrations were spirited, they were confined within homes. “The spirit is the same but the celebration was truly subdued. Usually, we have at least 20-25 people at home for the celebration,” said K M Ramchandran, president, Ahmedabad Kerala Samajam. “But unfortunately, due to the lockdown, the group was limited to my wife and kids.” Any celebration remains incomplete without food. Most of these regional New Years fall during the harvest season and preparations — sweets or savouries — are made using fresh harvest. “We made payasam (kheer), vadai and pachadi (a raw mango sabzi). Usually we perform a pooja at home and then go to the temple, all adorned in new clothes,” said Anusha Iyer, a professional. “However, that didn’t happen this time due to the lockdown. But we prepared all the festive delicacies and savoured them.” The Sikh community observed their harvest festival indoors as well, while the Assamese community celebrated Rongali Bihu.  Festivals often mean meeting, greeting and enjoying with family, friends and community members. But this year, most people are wishing one another using video calls. “A community-level celebration does take place every year on Poila Boisakh but this time, due to the lockdown, it may not take place,” said Sandipan Bose, a senior executive with a city-based hotel. “While I spent my day with family, we did wish our near and dear ones over video calls.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/various-communities-celebrate-new-year-at-home/articleshow/75149228.cms||---
April 15, 2020||Bhopal||Lockdown in MP to continue till May 3: CM||BHOPAL: Following Prime Minister’s announcement to extend the lockdown in the country till May 3, chief minister, Shivraj Singh Chouhan said that the lockdown in MP would also continue till May 3. He said that the Prime Minister was a far-sighted man with strong willpower and under his guidance; India would win over the Coronavirus pandemic. He further said that Madhya Pradesh would follow what the Prime Minister has said in letter and spirit because it was the best method to control and ultimately end the Coronavirus threat in the country. Chief minister said that detailed guidelines on the lockdown, which shall continue till May 3, would be declared on April 15 and different activities in Madhya Pradesh would be accordingly carried out. Meanwhile, Chouhan has informed that procurement of wheat on support price from farmers will start from Wednesday, under Rabi marketing year 2020-21. He said that the date of procurement in Indore, Bhopal and Ujjain districts will be announced later. The Chief Minister informed that this time the support price of wheat has been fixed at Rs 1925 per quintal by the government. Chief minister Chouhan has urged the farmers to come to the procurement centre on the date and time mentioned in the SMS sent to them. He assured that the produce of all farmers will be procured at support price. He said farmers are expected to keep complete social distance at the procurement centres to prevent the spread of Corona infection. The chief minister has told the farmers that in case of any complaint or problem related to procurement, they can contact the CM helpline number 181. He said that this time the number of procurement centres has been increased for the convenience of farmers. He advised the old and sick people not to come to the procurement centre and instead send any other representative they wish to nominate if necessary. BOXES....INSET Liquor shops to remain closed till April 20 TNN Bhopal: The state government has ordered the extension of closure of all liquor shops including country liquor shops in the state till April 20. The decision has been taken to prevent spread of Covid-19 in the state. Cinema halls closed till May 3 TNN Bhopal: In view of the Covid-19 infection, the state government directed all cinema halls and multiplexes in the state to remain shut till May 3. Earlier, the cinema halls were closd thill April 14.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/lockdown-in-mp-to-continue-till-may-3-cm/articleshow/75148400.cms||---
April 15, 2020||Dehradun||IAS trainees being taught to tackle corona-like crisis||MUSSOORIE: The current IAS trainees’ batch at Lal Bahadur Shastri National Academy of Administration (LBSNAA) in Mussoorie is being given training to tackle emergency situations and deal with the ongoing crisis due to outbreak of novel coronavirus. According to officials of LBSNAA, the Officer Trainees (OTs) are being provided in-depth knowledge on managing emergency situations. “They are being given inputs on Epidemic Diseases Act of 1879, Disaster Management Act of 2005, maintenance of Section 144 and on supply-chain logistics,” informed Sanjeev Chopra, director of LBSNAA. The official added that although these aspects were part of their curriculum but considering the present situation in the country, more focus is being laid on these aspects. “Once these OTs are posted in various districts across the country, they might be tasked with implementing these Acts and hence, we are laying greater thrust on these aspects,” Chopra said. At present, 185 trainees (including 3 from Bhutan) are undergoing training at LBSNAA although the academy is under complete lockdown. “Although the OTs are in the academy but in order to maintain complete segregation and social distancing, online courses are being conducted,” Chopra informed. The OTs would complete their course on May 8 following which they are expected to join their respective cadres across the country to take up their posts.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/ias-trainees-being-taught-to-tackle-corona-like-crisis/articleshow/75148396.cms||Anmol Jain
April 15, 2020||Hyderabad||Double whammy: No rehab plan for Gulf returnees||HYDERABAD: Gulf returnees, who were having a tough time in the Gulf, have a bleak future at home too as the Andhra and Telangana state governments have no rehabilitation plan in place for them. Further, the growing unemployment rate due to Covid-19 could make it difficult for the governments to come up with a plan at this juncture. P Basanth Reddy, president of Telangana Gulf NRI Welfare Association, said, “Government should help these workers - either skilled or semi-skilled - by providing work opportunities when they return to India. Gulf NRIs, unlike the NRIs from the West, are mostly blue-collar workers, who also play a key role in remittances. The suicide rate among the Gulf NRIs is high due to debts as most of them hail from BPL and lower middle-class families.” According to the data of Emigrants Welfare Forum, 17% of NRIs living in Gulf are from Telangana. “Most of them are in Saudi Arabia and the United Arab Emirates. Of 14 lakh, we are expecting 3 lakh to 3.7 lakh people to return home. These are the projected figures in the worst case economic scenario,” activist Mandha Bheem Reddy said. “The ministry of external affairs clarified in the Lok Sabha in 2018 that the responsibility of rehabilitation of returning migrants rests mainly with the state governments. Sudden job loss and forced return is not a new phenomenon. The problem is that there is no return and reintegration schemes by either the central or state governments,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/double-whammy-no-rehab-plan-for-gulf-returnees/articleshow/75149180.cms||U Sudhakar Reddy
April 15, 2020||Bareilly||Jan Dhan account-holders to get money at doorstep||Bareilly: To reach out to poor women having Jan Dhan bank accounts, State Bank of India (SBI) has decided to dispense money at their doorstep so that they do not have to visit their respective branches during the lockdown, now extended up to May 3. Shailesh Kumar Pandey, senior superintendent of police, will flag off SBI's two Jan Dhan raths on Wednesday. The vehicles will reach every doorstep to dispense Rs 500 to every account holder. In Bareilly, there are close to eight lakh women who have a Jan Dhan account in different banks. PK Sharma, deputy general manager of SBI, said to prevent people from crowding banks during the lockdown period, the raths will cover both urban and remote rural areas. Money will be dispensed to Jan Dhan account-holders while practising social distancing. SSP Pandey said all police stations in the district have been instructed to provide security to Jan Dhan raths when they reach their respective areas. Sharma said on Wednesday, two raths will be flagged off and two more will join the drive on Thursday. “One rath will reach out to people in Subhash Nagar area, which was sealed after six people there tested positive for coronavirus," said Sharma. Another rath will be deployed in Quila area and adjoining Sahukara and Madhinath localities, said the bank official. Each rath will be equipped with a computer and a thumb impression device. Each will be manned by SBI’s staff. According to SBI sources, Rs 500 has been transferred by the Centre in each Jan Dhan account and two instalments of Rs 1,000 each will be credited over the next two months.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/jan-dhan-account-holders-to-get-money-at-doorstep/articleshow/75148420.cms||Pankul Sharma
April 15, 2020||Goa||Some private hospitals not cooperating: Health secy||Panaji: Despite repeated pleas, private hospitals continue to turn away patients seeking treatment, health secretary Nila Mohanan informed the state executive committee on Monday. She said that the health department has received complaints against a leading private hospital in Dona Paula. The health department also appreciated the role played by a private hospital in Margao, which continued to offer treatment to patients despite being requisitioned by the state government to treat Covid-19 patients. “The health secretary said that private hospitals and other medical facilities are not entertaining patients and are turning them away on one pretext or other,” a top government official said. “The SEC has noted that the state is not getting the desired cooperation from the private health sector.” The Goa unit of the Indian Medical Association (IMA), after talks with other state IMA chapters and the central IMA, had asked all hospitals in Goa to keep their clinics and facilities open for treatment and refer Covid-19 patients to Goa Medical College (GMC) and hospital. Meanwhile, Mohanan told the SEC that 2,000 RNA extraction kits have been delivered from Delhi by a lifeline Udan flight. “This stock is sufficient to meet the state’s requirement for the time being,” Mohanan said. She also pointed out that the state faces a shortage of thermal guns for departments and others to be able to check the temperature of visitors. The Goa government plans to allow government departments to function from April 20, and will need to conduct health checks on all employees and visitors. “To meet this demand, the SEC has recommended the procurement of 500 thermal guns,” an official said. At the meeting, it was decided that all health sub-centres would be opened by Friday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/some-private-hospitals-not-cooperating-health-secy/articleshow/75149623.cms||---
April 15, 2020||Kolkata||Five cops injured in clash over quarantine centre in West Bengal||JAMURIA: The OC of Jamuria police station in West Burdwan, Subrata Ghosh, along with four other cops, was injured when a clash broke out between police and locals outside a quarantine centre at Churulia on Tuesday. “Five policemen, including the Jamuria OC, were attacked by residents of the area who demanded that the quarantine centre be removed to somewhere else. Raids are on to arrest those who attacked police,” a senior officer said. Residents have reportedly been against the quarantine centre from the beginning. “We fear it would expose us to the virus,” a local said. An argument broke out between residents and police that snowballed into a fight with cops being attacked with stones and bricks. Reinforcements reached the spot and the mob was dispersed. The injured cops were taken to Akalpur primary health centre. West Burdwan CMOH Debashish Haldar declined to comment.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/5-cops-injured-in-clash-over-quarantine-centre/articleshow/75149195.cms||Mohammad Asif
April 15, 2020||Bhopal||MP CM urges officials to ensure water availability||BHOPAL: Close to a hundred out of a total 378 municipal bodies in Madhya Pradesh are not getting daily water supply, while there are also some places where water is supplied once in three days. And this is just the start of a long, scorching summer. The weather is likely to be harsher over the next two months. Chief minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan has therefore directed that departments concerned should make arrangements in such a way that the water problem does not arise in summer. Officials said that till last week, out of the total 378 urban bodies in the state, potable water was supplied daily in 297 urban bodies. In 77 urban bodies, water is supplied on alternate days. This includes 26 municipal bodies of Indore division, 34 of Ujjain division and 16 of Bhopal division. In Sardarpur of Dhar, Suwasra in Mandsaur, Tonkkhurd in Dewas and Meghnagar in Jhabua, the municipal bodies are getting water supply once in two days. The level of water supply sources go down rapidly in the summer. Chouhan said due to sufficient rainfall in the state, the water level is good so far. He instructed that control rooms at the state and district level should function effectively to resolve the potable water problems Keeping in view the water arrangement for the summer, Chouhan recently reviewed the potable water arrangement through video-conferencing at the secretariat. It was informed that a state-level control room has been set up while district control rooms are also being set up. The CM has directed that water supply should be ensured per person per day, according to the prescribed criteria. It was informed in the meet that 55 litres of water per person is being supplied daily in around 1,13,720 settlements across the state. A database of all water sources is being prepared for proper supply of drinking water in the rural areas. Besides, a water source atlas has also been prepared.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/shivraj-urges-officials-to-ensure-water-availability/articleshow/75148418.cms||---
April 15, 2020||Hyderabad||Telangana: Visually-challenged woman supplies essentials to villagers||JANGAON: A visually-challenged mother of an Army doctor has been doing her bit amid the Covid-19 lockdown by distributing rice, vegetables and groceries in Bommera village of Palakurthy mandal in Jangaon district. Komuramma, who lost her husband Mallaiah five months ago, is primarily supported by her son Dr Mancherla Bikshapati. She has two daughters who reside in Hyderabad and another daughter who lives in Bommera. While her son is busy tending to Army personnel in Kashmir, Komuramma decided to serve her community in these trying times. For over a week now, Komuramma has been visiting houses in the village with the Zilla Parishad High School headmaster to distribute rice and vegetables, among other things. News of this endeavour soon reached her son, who offered financial assistance so as to widen the circle of beneficiaries. Komuramma has received support from Dr Bikshapati’s Army colleagues as well as the villagers of Bommera, said Sushmita, her youngest daughter. “My mother has never been bogged down by the tough life she has led. She has been happy with her simple life in the village and never really wanted to move to Hyderabad or Kashmir to be with my siblings,” Sushmitha said, adding that Komuramma was inspired by the work her son was doing in Kashmir. “My brother sends her some money for her monthly expenses. It is from this amount that she is making these donations,” Sushmitha added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/visually-challenged-woman-supplies-essentials-to-villagers/articleshow/75149189.cms||Shiva Kumar Pinna
April 15, 2020||Hyderabad||Hyderabad: 11-year-old donates pocket money, raises Rs 9.2 lakh for poor||HYDERABAD: An 11-year-old girl from the city has donated her entire pocket money and also raised funds from her friends, family and ran an online campaign to provide relief to poor people affected by the ongoing lockdown. Class 6 student, Ridhi Vangapally, has raised about Rs 9.2 lakh under her initiative, ‘Care-ona’ to help underprivileged families . Speaking to TOI Ridhi said, “I saw that there were several people struggling for basic necessities and hadn’t eaten for days. I decided to help them with my pocket money.” Her mother, Shilpa Vangapally said, “Ridhi made a list of the basic needs, the cost and how long supplies last for a family of four. She came up with a supply kit. She was initially able to raise Rs 1.3 lakh from family members which we used to supply 200 kits on April 2 with the help of Cyberabad police.” The family also started a crowdfunding page with Milaap where Ridhi wrote a letter urging people to contribute towards the cause. The crowdfunding platform helped Ridhi raise 6.2 lakh out of the total amount with the help of which she and her family are currently in the process of procuring around 1,000 kits for distribution.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/11-year-old-donates-pocket-money-raises-rs-9-2l-for-poor/articleshow/75149201.cms||Moulika.KV
April 15, 2020||Hubballi||5 discharged from navy hospital in Karwar||Karwar: Five Covid-19 patients were discharged from the INHS Patanjali Hospital in Karwar on Tuesday. With this, only one coronavirus patient remains at the navy hospital. Deputy commissioner Harish Kumar K said the lone patient will recover soon. Of the nine patients admitted to INHS Patanjali, two were discharged four days ago. A pregnant woman admitted here was later shifted to Manipal. All the nine are residents of Bhatkal and some of them had returned from the Gulf countries. The discharged patients will be kept under observation for another 14 days. There has been no new case of Covid-19 in Uttara Kannada. Harish warned people against venturing out of the district. He said those who return after visiting other districts will be kept under compulsory 14-day quarantine. “Uttara Kannada is under red alert and whoever comes from other districts will have to report to the nearest fever centre. Quarantine seal will be put on the hands of such persons and kept in 14-day compulsory quarantine,” he said. Those who do not agree for home quarantine will have to stay in government centres, he said. The DC said that health workers visited 3,35,033 houses in the district and checked 15,26,177 people. Of them, only 1,059 people had fever and 357 had fever with cold and cough. “All these people are under observation,” he said. The result of the survey has been compared with the data during the past three years and the cases of fever has sharply declined owing to quarantine, the DC said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hubballi/5-discharged-from-navy-hospital-in-karwar/articleshow/75144165.cms||---
April 15, 2020||Ahmedabad||Ahmedabad: Supply chain affected, prices of pulses up 15%||AHMEDABAD: Supply chain disruption coupled with increase in transportation cost has pushed up wholesale and retail prices of pulses in Ahmedabad market ever since the imposition of lockdown to curb Covid-19 outbreak. The prices of popular dals such as moong (yellow petite lentils), chana (chickpea), masoor (red lentils) and tur (pigeon pea) in the wholesale market have surged in the range of 10-15%. According to traders, the wholesale price of yellow moong dal has surged to Rs 114 from Rs 100 per kilogram, while green moong dal price has firmed up from around Rs 90 to Rs 105 per kg. Availability of pulses in wholesale markets also an issueThe price of masoor has moved up from Rs 60 to Rs 70. Chana dal price has risen to Rs 60-61 from Rs 52-53 and that of tur have inched up to Rs 76-77 from Rs 72-72 per kg. In retail market, prices of masoor and chana dals have crossed Rs 100 and currently being sold for Rs 100 to Rs 105 per kg. “The prices of premium yellow moong dal has increased to Rs 150 from Rs 110 per kg,” said Ketan Marwadi, a city-based retailer. “The main reasons for the spike in prices are supply chain disruption and increase in cost of transportation for procuring these pulses,” Sureshbhai Korwani, committee member, Ahmedabad Grain Merchants Association, a body of local pulses and grains wholesalers in Ahmedabad. “Before lockdown, the cost of transporting pulses from Jalgaon in Maharashtra to Ahmedabad in Gujarat used to be Rs 120-130 per quintal. Recently, I had to cough up Rs 260 per quintal for the same,” he added. “The availability of pulses in wholesale markets is also an issue. Even dal millers have raw material but they are complaining about the lack of manpower to process raw material to make dals,” said another trader. “The prices will further increase as there is a supply shortage and even the wholesale dealers, mainly in Madhupura area of Ahmedabad, are not opening their shops,” added Ketan Marwadi. Even malls have run out branded packaged dals and they are selling loose dals.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/supply-chain-affected-prices-of-dals-up-15/articleshow/75149196.cms||Kalpesh Damor
April 15, 2020||Dehradun||Will work out a plan to provide opportunities to people who have returned to hill: Trivendra Singh Rawat||DEHRADUN: Chief minister Trivendra Singh Rawat held a meeting with state ministers to discuss present scenario during lockdown and on ways to convert the situation into an opportunity. All of them unanimously decided that an elaborate work plan needs to be prepared to implement the directives to be issued by the Centre for the lockdown. The CM said that strengthening the economy in testing times was a big challenge ahead of the state government. Rawat said that there is a need to encourage reverse migration among such people. CM had directed the state planning commission to prepare a report on the ways to boost reverse migration. He added that there is a need to provide better resources and infrastructure to motivate people for reverse migration and if required funds would be provided through CM Relief fund. Rawat also directed health officials to check that people don't do black marketing of food items.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/will-work-out-a-plan-to-provide-opportunities-to-people-who-have-returned-to-hill-cm/articleshow/75148406.cms||Kautilya Singh
April 15, 2020||Hyderabad||TRS sarpanch’s husband booked||KAZIPET/KAMALAPUR: The excise police on Tuesday seized liquor bottles worth around Rs 10 lakh in two separate cases in Warangal. In the first case, excise SI Pavan, along with police, raided TRS sarpanch Katkuri Vijaya’s house and seized liquor worth Rs 2.6 lakh after getting a tip-off. The sarpanch’s husband Thirupathi Reddy and his friend Kondamidi Ravi were booked and taken into custody. According to Kamalapur inspector Ravi, the police also seized 60 bottles of liquor from the house of another friend, Vadla Ramesh Babu, in Kamalapur village. Vijaya and Ramesh Babu were not in town at the time of the incident. In another case, Kazipet ACP Ravinder along with a team of cops seized liquor worth Rs 8 lakh in Madikonda village of Kazipet mandal. According to the police, members of a liquor syndicate and owners of a wine shop broke open the locked door of a wine shop late in the night and dumped the stock of liquor at a secret location, while the syndicate members began shifting the stock from Madikonda to Hanamkonda. The ACP and excise inspector Praveen, along with other police personnel, raided the place where the liquor stock was dumped and seized the liquor bottles. Following the incident, Madikonda circle inspector Johny Narsimhulu along with his team conducted raids in the villages around Kazipet.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/trs-sarpanchs-husband-booked/articleshow/75149198.cms||Shiva Kumar Pinna
April 15, 2020||Kolhapur||Nurse is Solapur’s second confirmed Covid-19 patient||Kolhapur: Solapur city registered its second confirmed Covid-19 case on Tuesday with a woman’s throat swab testing positive. The woman, believed to be a nurse in a private hospital, is likely to have come in contact with the city’s first infected man (who has since died of the infection) when he was admitted to the private hospital on April 9. The district health department had sent 91 throat swab samples of the close contacts of the deceased positive patient. Of them, 67 results have returned so far. One of the contacts tested positive,” said Solapur collector Milind Shambharkar. He requested citizens to cooperate in the health survey currently underway in the containment zone. “The condition is under control and there is no need to worry. Citizens should cooperate by giving the right information to the staff members visiting for the survey,” Shambharkar said. According to the district administration officials, the deceased man’s family had said that he had no travel history and how he contracted the infection is yet to be ascertained. Meanwhile, Shambharkar said the administration has started the survey in the containment zone, which includes around 7,000 families and 43,000 residents. Almost 4,000 families have already been screened. The deceased man hails from the Pacha Peth area of the city and he was admitted to the Chhatrapati Shivaji Maharaj Sarvopchar Rugnalaya, the civil hospital, on April 10. He died on April 11. Meanwhile, the Solapur district has seen around 554 citizens completing their home quarantine. There are still 579 citizens who are under home quarantine. — With inputs from Suryakant Asabe from Solapur||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolhapur/nurse-is-solapurs-second-confirmed-covid-19-patient/articleshow/75149192.cms||---
April 15, 2020||Coimbatore||Coimbatore: Motorists stopped for 30 minutes lecture||COIMBATORE: To curtail vehicle movements, police on Tuesday continued to hold up motorists at 33 check points in the city for 30 minutes to lecture them on Covid-19 and steps to prevent it. At Singanallur, police team made motorists stop their vehicles and ensured that they maintained social distancing, while health officers checked their body temperature using digital thermometers. Later, motorists were told to stock essentials for a week and not to step out of their houses unnecessarily. Health officers participated in the drive at four check points, including Singanallur and Gandhipuram. They took people with high body temperature to hospital. Deputy commissioner of police (headquarters) S Selvakumar said the initiative would help to control movement of people on the streets. Watch Coimbatore: Motorists stopped for 30 minutes lecture on Covid-19 and steps to prevent it||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/motorists-stopped-for-30-minutes-lecture/articleshow/75149194.cms||---
April 15, 2020||Bareilly||Rs 13 lakh burgled, Covid-hit family accuses cops of laxity||Bareilly: Police have registered an FIR against unidentified robbers, who burgled a house in Bareilly’s Subhash Nagar allegedly on Sunday night, which belongs to a family of six, all of whom had been kept under isolation elsewhere since March 29, after they all tested positive for Covid-19. The burglars managed to decamp with cash and jewelry worth Rs 13 lakh, said the 34-year-old house owner, who was discharged from hospital on Monday, after he tested negative. So far, police have gathered CCTV footages, made a list of all history-sheeters in Subhash Nagar, and detained some suspects for questioning. The house owner told TOI, “Nearly Rs 25,000 in cash, a laptop and jewelry worth Rs 13 lakh is missing from the locker. My parents will be in a better position to say if something else is missing, but they are still in isolation at this moment. Once we were identified, we were immediately shifted to hospital and not given much time to lock the house properly. Ideally, police should ensure security of the house of Covid-19 patients who are relocated to hospitals. After the virus affected us socially, this robbery has affected us financially.” The incident has also raised questions over police’s vigil in the area. All 25 entry/exit points of Subhash Nagar were officially sealed by police recently, after some Covid-19 cases were found here. Police claimed they have been monitoring the entire area with drones, and carefully scanning passes of everyone entering or leaving the locality. Subhash Nagar SHO Harishchandra Joshi told TOI, “The lock of the house was found intact on Sunday evening, but broken by Monday afternoon. It’s evident the robbery took place on Sunday night. We’ve filed an FIR under IPC sections 457 (house breaking by night) and 380 (theft in dwelling house). We will add charges of violation of lockdown guidelines, etc., after the accused is arrested. We have collected CCTV footage and identified some suspects. We’ll soon have a breakthrough in this case.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/rs-13-lakh-burgled-covid-hit-family-accuses-cops-of-laxity/articleshow/75148410.cms||Kanwardeep Singh
April 15, 2020||Jaipur||Crematoriums feel the heat of firewood shortage in Jaipur||JAIPUR: With supply of logs taking a beating during lockdown, most of the crematoriums in Jaipur are feeling the pinch. Many of them have a week’s stock left. Although authorities are ready to give them permission to transport logs, there are no labourers. Since funerals cannot be deferred, the crisis is making people who run the crematoriums worried. Pandit Mukesh Sharma, who manages affairs in a crematorium at Raja Park, said they would only be able to perform about seven cremations. “We do not have the stock as transportation is banned and we are running out of firewood. We usually get 2–4 cremations every week. This is a serious issue that authorities must take into consideration. Deaths won’t stop during lockdown,” said Sharma. A body requires at least 5 quintals of firewood but in the time of scarcity, crematoriums are trying to get the job done with 4 quintals. Manager of Cheelgadi crematorium in Pratap Nagar, Anil Sharma, said they are out of firewood. “We do not have the stock. There is no other crematorium in the next 9km due to which it is a big problem for us. Many a times, firewood-carrying trucks tried to enter the city but were not given permission. No driver is ready to take the risk of going to jail. Even if we get the permission to transport firewood, there are no labourers available. We get wood from Bassi, but most of the woodcutters are not working,” said Sharma. All the managers of the crematoriums pointed out one important fact that the number of cremation have gone down by 50% since the lockdown. The reason given was the lower number of accidents and better health conditions. Accidents used to consist of major cremations as per the crematorium owners which are negligible now-a-days. Similarly, they said that people are taking care of their health while staying at home which has reduced the number of cremation. Some positive points in the lockdown. Another issue is that people usually go to Haridwar or Pushkar for immersing the ashes of the dead, but amid the lockdown that is not possible. “Most of the crematoriums provide lockers where ashes can be kept for a few days,” said Prem Chandani, manager at Hadi Ghati crematorium. He further said, “Due to the lockdown, people cannot go for immersion of the ashes which is usually done on the third day after the cremation. Though locker facility is provided, now only three lockers are left in our crematorium. Similar challenges are being faced everywhere. It is a crisis as neither firewood is available nor lockers. We need to make arrangements in the city immediately to keep the ashes. These should also be declared as essential services. The dead cannot wait till the lockdown is lifted.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/crematoriums-feel-the-heat-of-firewood-shortage-in-city/articleshow/75149616.cms||---
April 15, 2020||Kolhapur||Strict action on trucks found plying people||Kolhapur: District collector Daulat Desai has directed strict action against the owners of transporters along with the drivers if caught again plying passengers through the milk tankers. He has asked the authorities to pass the information to the truck drivers and owners at the same time take written approval from them that they will not carry any passengers in their vehicles and will only stick to carrying essential commodities Desai has asked the deputy district registrar of the cooperative department, Dairy department and RTO, Kolhapur to initiate strict regulations so that they are not broken. “We have granted permission to the milk tankers, trucks carrying grains and essential commodities to ply from Kolhapur to other districts under essential services. At the same time, we have imposed a ban on passengers travelling from other districts to others. However, some passengers may travel in these vehicles and may increase infection of the virus. As a precautionary measure, we have asked all the milk cooperative societies using tankers, market committees, transport associations, owners of the vehicles and drivers to ensure that they do not violate such rules,” said a senior officer from district collectorate. The officer said that they have asked the owners to get an affidavit or self-declaration written from them stating that they will follow the rules and will not carry any passengers in their vehicles. “If anyone is found violating the rules, we will take strict action against them under different acts including Central Disaster Management Act-2005, Maharashtra Covid Act 2020 and Prevention of Epidemic Act -1897,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolhapur/strict-action-on-trucks-found-plying-people/articleshow/75149197.cms||---
April 15, 2020||Bareilly||One dead, 17 Covid-positive in Moradabad, eight new cases in Sambhal||Bareilly: In Moradabad on Monday, a 49-year-old man died of Covid-19 at a private medical college, while 17 others, including a 39-year-old doctor who was treating corona patients, tested positive for the virus. Chief medical officer M C Garg said of the fresh cases, two are residents of Sambhal and one of Amroha. In Sambhal, eight more suspects tested Covid-19 positive on Tuesday. With the 17 fresh cases, Moradabad’s tally shot up from one to 18 in a single day, leaving local administration and health department distressed. District magistrate R K Singh and SSP Amit Pathak asked locals to strictly follow lockdown rules to stay safe. According to officials, among the 17 fresh cases, 15 are Tablighi Jamaatis who had either attended the event in Delhi’s Nizamuddin Markaz or came in contact with those who had. The deceased person has been identified as Sartaj Ali, resident of Nawabpura in Moradabad, who got infected after coming in contact with Jamaatis. All 17 people were quarantined at a private medical college in Moradabad. The CMO said Sartaj had approached the facility on his own on April 8, after his condition deteriorated. His sample was sent for testing, and the report, which arrived only on Monday, showed he was Covid-19 positive. But few minutes after the report arrived, he passed away. Among 15 Covid-19 positive Jamaatis, the condition of one is said to be serious. Two doctors employed with the government were also admitted to the private medical college in “serious condition” two days ago, and then shifted to ICU. Now, their condition is reportedly stable. One of them, who was part of a survey team checking up on Jamaatis, had tested positive, said the CMO. Elsewhere, the SSP and DM met with police and administrative officials and instructed them not to relax lockdown norms in areas that have been sealed as hotspots. Six localities in Moradabad — Mugalpura, Nagfani, Barvalan, Azandnagar, Tambakuvalan and Lalnagari — have been marked as hotspot. SSP said they are now tracking the phones to collect call and location details of the Covid-19 positive cases, to find out how many people had come in their contact. In Sambhal, SP Yamuna Prasad said they had found 11 Jamaatis from Tamil Nadu hiding at Saraitareen locality in Hayatnagar area in the district. “Their samples were sent for testing to RML Institute of Medical Sciences in Lucknow. All 11 Jamaatis were staying in Hayatnagar, which has been sealed completely. Eight of them tested positive, with one having arrived from Dubai last month,” the SP said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/one-dead-17-covid-positive-in-moradabad-eight-new-cases-in-sambhal/articleshow/75148444.cms||Pankul Sharma
April 15, 2020||Goa||Goa govt seeks inputs from villages on economic revival||Panaji: After criticism that the government had ignored inputs from smaller businessmen, the state now proposes to collect suggestions to revive the economy from village functionaries. The state executive committee had decided to rope in teachers to collect inputs while Goa Institute of Rural Development and Administration will compile the inputs and prepare a report, said officials. The SEC, headed by chief secretary Parimal Rai, directed the director of higher education to seek suggestions from “all concerned especially from village functionaries; sarpanch, panchayat secretaries”, through government teachers, to ready an economic revival report. The inputs will be used to undertake development activities at the village level, the SEC said after the meeting which was held on Monday. When a review was taken regarding the movement of cargo and grocery supplies, incident commander Michael D’Souza said that absence of vehicles in other states is affecting supply movement. The SEC decided that both district collectors should liaise with their counterparts in neighbouring states to sort out the issue. The SEC also directed that the horticulture corporation should put a mechanism in place to collect produce directly from farmers. A small discretionary fund should be provided to village panchayats short of funds. The SEC reviewed the progress of the house-to-house survey. The state placed on record the help received from Porvorim-based IT firm Vacation Labs, which built the app that collects the data, designed the forms, and provides live feeds to state authorities.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/goa-govt-seeks-inputs-from-villages-on-economic-revival/articleshow/75149656.cms||---
April 15, 2020||Surat||Silence of loom makes workers go sleepless in Surat||SURAT: This is straight out of the silent movie ‘Pushpak’ where Kamal Haasan couldn’t sleep in a hotel as he missed the cacophony emanating from a cinema hall. He goes back to his slum, records the noise, returns to the hotel and plays it on the recorder, only to get a good sleep.Migrant workers in India’s mad-made textile hub — Surat — are also battling similar sleeping woes. Forced to stay at home due to lockdown, they are woefully missing the high-decibel clatter of the powerloom machines that pound their ears during the 12-hour shift. The workers are so used to this sound that many are spending sleepless nights these days. So, besides getting two square meals a day, these migrant workers are now provided this badly needed ‘disturbance’ too. Vimal Bekawala, a powerloom weaver from Pandesara GIDC, decided to give them the sleeping pill by sending the rattling sound of the machines to his workers on their mobile phones. “When I went to give food grain kits to my workers, many complained that they were unable to adjust to the silence around them. Next day, I switched on the machines, recorded the sound and sent it on the phones of my workers,” said Bekawala, who employs 100 migrants in his 50 powerlooms. “The results were instant. Workers are able to get sound sleep after listening to the khat-khat sound,” said Bekawala. Trilochan Swain, a migrant worker from Ganjam district in Odisha, said, “We are locked up in our houses. Besides, with my family, I badly missed the machine sound and couldn’t sleep at night. But now I keep listening to the audio on my mobile till I get sleep.” Ashish Gujarati, president of Pandesara GIDC weavers’ Association, said, “The audio clip has gone viral among the migrants. This is something unique which none of the weavers thought of.” “This khat-khat sound is my companion until I can meet my family. At night, I speak with my five-year-old daughter over phone, listen to the audio and go to sleep. For the first few days of lockdown, it was difficult to sleep at night. But now, I am relieved as my seth (boss) sent us the audio,” Dasratram Patel, says a worker from Lagdharpur village in Jaunpur district of Uttar Pradesh. Psychiatrists said the lockdown and joblessness have made the migrant workers lonely and they are unable to adjust to the stunning silence Dr Mukul Choksi, a psychiatrist, told TOI, “This is called classical conditioning. The same conditioning applies to the powerloom workers who are not able to sleep properly in the absence of the machine sound. It is something similar to people who can’t answer nature’s call with out cigarettes in the morning.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/silence-of-loom-makes-workers-go-sleepless-in-surat/articleshow/75149207.cms||---
April 15, 2020||Bhopal||Sagar lab begins Covid-19 testing||BHOPAL: Sagar’s Bundelkhand Medical College and Hospital became the ninth laboratory in Madhya Pradesh that has been approved to carry out Covid-19 testing . After completing the trial runs on Saturday, the laboratory on Monday tested the first nine samples. The Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) had authorised the lab for coronavirus testing on Saturday. This lab will test samples from Sagar, Damoh, Tikamgarh, Chhatarpur, Panna and Satna districts, said BMCSagar’s associate professor and nodal officer for Covid--19 testing, Dr Sumit Rawat. The Sagar lab will follow updated instructions of the state government with regard to coronavirus tests. The criteria for testing in the laboratory will be ensured under the updated instructions issued by the ICMR as on April 9. MP Health commissioner, Faiz Ahmed Kidwai, issued instructions in this regard to all districts across the state. All symptomatic Covid-19 individuals will be screened in the lab. All their contacts and all symptomatic healthcare providers and patients with severe respiratory disease will also be tested at the lab. Hotspots and migrating groups should be tested too. Individuals affected by symptoms such as high fever and sore throat have to undergo appropriate tests within seven days of their illness.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/sagar-lab-begins-covid-19-testing/articleshow/75148436.cms||---
April 15, 2020||Mangaluru||Former lecturer documents 180 species of butterflies in village||Mangaluru: Not everyone in Halageri village in Siddapur taluk of Uttara Kannada may know Netra Bhat by her name, but ask a passerby her address, and the immediate response is, “Oh, the woman who roams around with her camera”, and they will lead you to her house. Netra Bhat, 30, a former chemistry lecturer, has documented 180 species of butterflies. It was Dr Prashanth Bhat, her guide during her MSc days at Karnatak University, Dharwad, and a butterfly expert, who introduced Netra to the world of butterflies, who till then disliked biology. Bhat, along with Ashok Sengupta, a founding member of Bangalore Butterfly Club, had visited her village about six years ago, and since then, she has been documenting butterflies. Netra said, “I began documenting butterflies on September 24, 2014, and the journey has been exciting. Till date, I have been able to document and identify about 180 species, of which 17 are endemic to the Western Ghats. This documentation is only from my village, that is spread out across a radius of about 8km. There are a few species of butterfly here, that are yet to be identified. Golden flitter, which is a butterfly that is endemic to the Western Ghats, was the 180th species that was added to my list on Thursday,” she said.  During the past six years, Netra has documented some rare butterfly species, including brown onyx, banded royal, silver royal, pale green awlet, orchid tit and golden flitter. “Due to the availability of host plants in the region, we find some rare butterfly species here. I accidentally spotted the beautiful silver royal. The region is known for oakblues. I have managed to document the life cycle of Tamil oakblue and aberrant oakblue, that was uploaded on the website ifoundbutterflies,” she said.  Several experts from across India come to the village for field visits, to document butterflies. Netra has also documented butterflies from the areas surrounding Jog Falls and Tirupati, during her two-year stay there. Her family supports her in pursuing her passion, and Netra, a young mother, shifted base to her village two years ago. Sammilan Shetty, conservationist and founder, Butterfly Park Belvai, said, “The beautiful, serene and undisturbed habitat of Halgeri village is home to the diverse butterfly fauna of the Western Ghats. The dense patches of Hopea ponga forests, hosts the five oakblues found in the Western Ghats, making it a habitat that is one-of-its-kind. Netra’s contribution of documenting the winged beauties in the region has opened the doors of research, and also to study in detail the early stages of some of the interesting oakblues found here. I wish her passion and contribution to the natural world, will inspire and enlighten others, and protect the natural habitat of Halageri village for generations to come.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mangaluru/former-lecturer-documents-180-species-of-butterflies-in-village/articleshow/75148423.cms||Deepthi Sanjiv
April 15, 2020||Delhi||Delhi: With all hands on corona deck, pre-monsoon desilting takes hit||NEW DELHI: It is already mid-April but in the wake of the novel coronavirus crisis, none of the three municipal corporations in the capital has even managed to finalise a plan for desilting drains before the monsoon. The majority of sanitation workers are busy spraying disinfectants and lifting garbage while domestic breeding checkers (DBC) are being used for visiting houses of suspected people to contain the spread of the pandemic. Usually, 80-90% of the desilting work is supposed to be over by May 31 and the rest by June 15. Complaints of mosquito breeding have started coming from many areas with residents pointing at stagnant silt in drains as the key reason behind it. If action is not taken immediately, more cases of vector-borne diseases will be soon be reported, they alleged. During the monsoon, waterlogging in inner lanes will also be a major problem, they added. B S Vohra, a resident of east Delhi, said they had to keep all windows and doors closed in the evening to avoid mosquitoes. “The problem is growing day by day and the corporation is not doing much,” Vohra alleged. A senior official of the East Delhi Municipal Corporation said that with the sanitation staff above 55 years having been sent on leave for safety issues, there was a shortage of manpower. “Inner-lane drains are being cleaned but at major drains, silt has to be left by roadside for at least three days before transporting it elsewhere. In such a critical condition, we can’t afford to leave filth in the open,” he added. The official admitted that so far no meeting had taken place but assured that once this crisis was over, the corporation could handle the situation in a short time by deploying more workers and machines. “Our priority right now is to control the pandemic. If things get better by April 20, we will definitely call a meeting to finalise the desilting action plan,” he added. North corporation mayor Avtar Singh said he would call a video-conference meeting in a day or two to check the work status and the civic body would try to finish desilting in a time-bound manner despite the staff shortage. He, however, admitted that so far no meeting had been held. In south Delhi, residents have written to corporation officials and local councillors alleging unhygienic conditions. “Forget about desilting of drains, sweeping is not happening regularly despite so many residents complaining to officials and the councillor about mosquito breeding,” said Gurdeep Singh, a resident of Vikaspuri’s H block. A south corporation official, however, said more than half of the DBC workers engaged in the area were regularly spraying insecticides. While admitting that no joint meeting has been called, he said desilting of mainly 4ft-deep drains had just begun and soon all areas would be covered.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/with-all-hands-on-corona-deck-pre-monsoon-desilting-takes-hit/articleshow/75149866.cms||Vibha Sharma
April 15, 2020||Ahmedabad||Sanitizing tunnel installed at Gujarat high court entrance||AHMEDABAD: A disinfection tunnel has been installed at the entry gate of the Gujarat high court as the court plans to take up more bail applications and detention matters for hearing from Wednesday. The chief justice has constituted six benches for speedy hearing on bail pleas. For the increased work, the HC would require more staff and therefore the chief justice had ordered the state government and the Ahmedabad Municipal Corporation (AMC) to install the sanitizing tunnel at its gate so that those entering the HC premises at Sola can get disinfected first. Before entering the HC building, all the court staff and officers will have to pass through the tunnel, which is a disinfection chamber. The chief justice had also ordered that all case related briefs and files should be sanitized as well as the vehicles that carry these documents to the judges, who will sit at their respective residences and hear the cases through video-conferencing.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/sanitizing-tunnel-installed-at-high-court-entrance/articleshow/75149224.cms||---
April 15, 2020||Jaipur||JMC seeks more staff for food distribution||JAIPUR: The chaos that happened during distribution of free ration packets at Jhalana slum on Monday proved how ill-equipped and unprepared Jaipur Municipal Corporation (JMC) was. On Tuesday, the JMC asked for more enforcement staff to resume distribution of ration to needy in that area. JMC enforcement head Rakesh Yadav said, “We have been providing dry ration to needy people in slums across the city. On Monday, some people created nuisance at Jhalana slum area which led to crowding. Hundreds of people gathered at one place and it became difficult to manage. Women were in the front due to which we couldn’t do much. This is the first such incident in the city. We have asked for a greater number of force and planning to go on April 16 and 17.” JMC had planned to distribute 400 ration packets but was able to give away only 25. No arrests were made as JMC officials could not identify persons responsible. JMC usually goes to every household to distribute ration packets, but Monday’s situation was out of control. An official of JMC said, “Questions have been raised that in the lockdown when people are out of jobs especially in the slum areas where there is always a possibility that these kinds of chaos can arise, why was JMC so lenient? They should have gone their with additional force. This not only poses a threat to the officials, but lack of social distancing caused a danger of spreading the virus. Action should be taken against the accused people as well who called people violating.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/jmc-seeks-more-staff-for-food-distribution/articleshow/75149628.cms||---
April 15, 2020||Jaipur||JMC site gets new wing for sanitisation plans||Jaipur: Jaipur Municipal Corporation (JMC) has launched a new section on their website to inform people about zone-wise sanitisation plans. In the section, the plan of entire week has been uploaded to help people. This new section was added to give relief to people who have been complaining about sanitisation in their neighbourhood amid the virus spread. JMC commissioner VP Singh said, “We have been receiving hundreds of calls from in control room that their areas hadn’t been sanitised. To give relief and to ensure the public about efforts made by JMC, they can now directly go to the website and look at the plan. We are continuing zone-wise and a weekly plan will be uploaded. This week’s plan is already on the website and next week’s plan will be uploaded in two days.” On the website www.jaipurmc.org, a separate section ‘sanitization plan’ has been created. However, a JMC official has made this clear that sanitisation will be done for colony roads and lanes, not for individual households. People should avoid making any such requests to workers on the field. For sanitisation, JMC has deployed 43 fire tenders and 108 knapsack machines from which sodium hypochlorite will be sprayed.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/jmc-site-gets-new-wing-for-sanitisation-plans/articleshow/75149655.cms||---
April 15, 2020||Kolkata||West Bengal: Masks come as a lifeline for lockdown jobless||KOLKATA: With the state government making the use of masks mandatory, many people, who had lost their livelihood because of the lockdown, have found a new buisness opportunity to tide over the crisis. People who were associated with small businesses that have no takers now, has switched to making masks and selling them in markets or hawking around the city on bicycles. Behala Silpara resident Jainal Abedin worked as a tailor with a small hosiery unit. After the lockdown was clamped, the sole bread winner for a family of six went jobless. He was finding it hard to even buy daily groceries. Now, this mask business gave him a new hope. “Making cloth masks is simple and I can easily make more than 200 a day at my home. So, every day, I go out on my bicycle, displaying the masks on a stand, and sell them in neighbourhoods and markets. People need masks now and business has been good,” said Abedin, who sells masks at Rs 20 to Rs 30 a piece. Dum Dum Durganagar resident Basudeb Das is not an skilled tailor like Abedin, but his wife learnt the art of making masks from an NGO. Now, while she makes masks at home, Das displays them on his bicycle and sells them in areas around Dum Dum, Airport and Baguiati. “I used to work as a sales representative and had been out of work since lockdown. I was left with little money when I started selling masks and it helps me make my ends meet,” he said. These are simple masks — made of cloth, in various sizes and colours and not expensive. Vendors who would only sell essential commodities have been allowed to continue with their business. With demand for masks going up, many of them have returned on the pavements with their makeshift stalls. Sanjay Paswan has been selling puri-sabzi from a stall on Mahatma Gandhi Road for the past 8 years. But the shop has been closed since March 22. “For the first week I had no work. I used to idle around when I saw some people selling masks and doing good business. Since I had no work, I decided to sell masks. I source the masks from a local NGO, where women from self-help groups make those masks,” said Paswan. Every day he sells 15 to 20 masks, which cost Rs 20 each. “Something is better than nothing. Now that the government has made masks mandatory, people are wearing and buying them. Even cops would insist people to buy masks when they step out,” said Paswan. On Sunday, the state government made it mandatory for people to wear masks when they step outside. Those who are making and selling masks feel they would not only act as a shield against novel coronavirus but also help them earn some money to run their family. Near Poddar Court on New CIT Road, TOI spotted masks sellers follwoing social distancing norms with only one vendor for a lane. “I do not let people crowd around and wear a mask myself all the time,” says Mohammad Rahil, a vendor.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/tamaghna-zeeshan-mask/articleshow/75149223.cms||Tamaghna Banerjee
April 15, 2020||Ahmedabad||Dariapur, in the grip of Covid-19, was a Spanish Flu hotspot too||AHMEDABAD: The Unesco’s World Heritage City of Ahmedabad, which Mughal emperor Humayun referred as the ‘most embellished city of the world’ while ordering its army not to vandalize it nearly five centuries ago, has emerged as a disease and death trap on many occasions. Here, the most congested Dariapur area in the overcrowded walled city, which is a hotspot for coronavirus epidemic currently, was also reported to be in grip of the highly virulent Spanish Flu epidemic in 1918. Currently, the Dariapur areas has reported 75 Covid-19 cases of the total 373 cases in Ahmedabad. Similar was the case with Dariapur 102 years ago, when deadly Spanish Flu struck India killing nearly 1.7 crore of its population. Ahmedabad too witnessed heavy loss of life with 3,527 persons reported dead within six months. Among many areas of Ahmedabad, Dariapur attracted notice of historians, as the book ‘The Spanish Influenza Pandemic of 1918-1919: New Perspectives’ mentions, “The epidemic was particularly virulent in the crowded localities, like Dariapur…” Braving many such odds in the history, Dariapur continued to be thickly populated as ever. The 0.79 square-kilometre area in Ahmedabad is the hotspot for Covid-19 outbreak with 75 cases recorded till date. This area has a population of 63,644 packed into 13,170 households, according to the 2015 AMC property tax survey. Dariapur and neighbouring Jamalpur account for 122 Covid19 cases in the city. Urban health centre officials of Dariapur claim that highly clustered localities and neighbourhood makes social distancing difficult. “Many bylanes of areas like Dariapur, Kalupur, Khadia and Jamalpur become informal vending places during morning hours,” says a health official.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/dariapur-in-the-grip-of-covid-was-a-spanish-flu-hotspot-too/articleshow/75149202.cms||Saeed Khan
April 15, 2020||Delhi||Delhi: Feeding hungry minds to serving needy, educators don many hats||NEW DELHI: You’re never too old to learn new things. This is what 57-year-old Ratti Ram Meena has been realising these days. After being an educator for over 30 years, first as a teacher and then a principal, Ram has been learning something new for the past few weeks — ensuring quick measurements. Deputed at the ration distribution centre created at Government Co-ed Senior Secondary School in Sector 6 of RK Puram, principal Meena has been working 14 hours daily distributing rice and wheat to the needy who don’t have ration cards. “I had never thought I would be doing this, but even this is an experience. I’m glad to help those who are in need during this nationwide lockdown,” he said. At his centre, Meena has devised a technique to ensure that people don’t have to wait for long in the heat and there is no overcrowding. “I have marked the panels of two buckets showing the quota of rice and wheat that needs to be poured in for distribution. This helps us cut down the time taken to weigh the rations,” he said. Meena is one of the hundreds of teachers, principals and vice-principals of Delhi government schools who have not only joined in the fight against hunger, but are also educating people on how to combat Covid-19. Nearly 2,500 schools have been converted into hunger relief centres, while over 400 have been designated as ration distribution centres to non-ration card holders. Lauding the education department, chief minister Arvind Kejriwal on Monday said, “I would like to thank school principals, vice-principals, teachers and the entire education department who are working beyond their line of duty.” With 40 hunger relief centres, 20 ration distribution centres and eight night shelters under his supervision, senior education department official Kripa Shankar Upadhyay has to ensure that the needs of daily wagers and the needy are met. “We are providing cooked food to around 25,000 people every day. Currently, 750 people are staying at our night shelters. We perform our duty round the clock at the night shelters. We are also trying to boost the morale of those living here,” said Upadhyay. Alok Kumar Mishra, a teacher at Rajkiya Varishth Madhyamik Bal Vidyalaya in Mangolpur Khurd, who has been deployed at the Narela quarantine centre since March 30, said he has been working in the control room set up in the tents outside theSSS flats. Sarvoday Bal Vidyalaya in C-Block of Sultanpuri, which has been converted into a temporary food distribution centre, is being managed by teacher Shree Lal. “I check the quality of food and ensure that a fair quantity is distributed to whoever comes here. I also ensure that proper hygiene and cleanliness is maintained in the school campus and its surroundings with the help of the sanitisation department,” he said. With many principals nearing 60 years of age, many are scared of getting infected by Covid-19. “Chawal, gehoon baat ke kahin hum bhi corona ke shikaar na ban jaye (We hope we don’t become victims of corona while distributing rice and wheat),” one of them quipped. MS Negi, the principal of a school in RK Puram who retires in December, said, “I had never thought I would be doing this work, but being a government employee we all have to be prepared for every task.” He has been working in the school since 1985.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/feeding-hungry-minds-to-serving-needy-educators-don-many-hats/articleshow/75149859.cms||Shradha Chettri
April 15, 2020||Hyderabad||Hyderabad man helps feed migrant workers, uses social media to aid the stranded||HYDERABAD: Manzoor Akhtar, an Attapur-based construction engineer who hails from Jharkhand, has been helping migrant workers ever since the country came under lockdown due to the coronavirus outbreak. What is even more heartening is that Akthar is using his personal savings for this noble cause and inspiring those around him to do the same. Being involved in construction, Akhtar is helping the migrant workers living in Kukatpally, Madhapur, Mallapur, Maheswaram, Shamsabad, and Habsiguda to buy basic grocery products like rice, vegetables and atta. “Initially, I posted a WhatsApp status of an NGO providing ration and meals during the lockdown to the needy. A number of migrant workers, who are associated with me during my eight-year-long career in the construction industry contacted me and sought my help,” Akhtar told TOI. “I asked my colleagues and engineers living near these areas to buy the workers the essential food items. Later, I used to pay my friends,” he added. Gradually, as the word spread he was flooded with requests seeking help with videos of stranded workers across the city. He is now raising funds along with his friends to help more number of migrant workers. “Most of the migrant workers are from Bihar, Jharkhand, West Bengal and Odisha. They have lost their jobs at construction sites, hotels and other factories,” said Akhtar. By Monday, he had already helped 20 migrant workers in Mallapur, around 45 labourers in Shamsabad, 20 in Kukatpally and 50 workers in Habsiguda with the help of the local residents. “As more and more people are getting in touch with me, I am using social media to get more people involved in this noble initiative. I am willing to spend the money but we need more people across the twin cities to buy the essentials and provide them to the labourers in their areas,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/city-man-helps-feed-migrant-workers-uses-social-media-to-aid-the-stranded/articleshow/75149210.cms||Arya Sharan
April 15, 2020||Goa||Platform to track consumer complaints||Panaji: A consumer complaints platform has been launched in view of the present lockdown implemented due to the Covid-19 pandemic. In the first phase, Goacan will monitor complaints on issues like overcharging, non-issuing of bills, expiry date on products and tampering of weighing scales used to measure food grains. Complaints will be accepted only on email (goacancomplaintscell@gmail.com). The complaints can also be sent on behalf of housing societies, trade unions, employees associations, slum dwellers, migrants, contract and domestic workers. Complaints received on email will be immediately acknowledged, but Action Taken Report (ATR) will be sent after 72 hours, Goacan said. Consumers can complain about overcharging on the marked retail price (MRP) of packed items, placing hiked price stickers over the MRP, smudging price and date of manufacture and packing. In case of LPG cylinders, consumers can complain about overcharging, non issue of bills, no home delivery, cancellation of booking without notice and delayed delivery.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/platform-to-track-consumer-complaints/articleshow/75149664.cms||---
April 15, 2020||Bareilly||Rohilkhand varsity helpline to the rescue, as students suffer from lockdown anxiety||Bareilly: A BTech student of Mahatma Jyotiba Phule (MJP) Rohilkhand University, suffering from stress and fearful of his career, after classes were suspended because of the nationwide lockdown to combat novel coronavirus, was pleasantly surprised when he followed up on advice from the university administration and called up the tele-counseling helpline set up by the university’s pharmacy department. After one session with the counselors, he found his psychological stress had suddenly reduced, and he could sleep in peace. The helpline was set up following University Grants Commission (UGC) guidelines. Sunita Pandey, registrar, MJP Rohilkhand University, told TOI, “On the directions of UGC, we recently launched a Covid-19 helpline for students who are facing difficulties, anxiety or stress. Following the lockdown, some exams were postponed. Even the syllabus under the semester-exam format could not be completed for some subjects. It has been noticed that some fake letters have been circulated on social media to create confusion and anxiety among students. The helpline aims to ease stress among students.” Any student enrolled in the varsity campus and seeking counseling can contact the helpline number daily from 11 am to 1 pm. In the last five days, it has received over 25 calls. Officials said they have also received some calls from students studying in colleges affiliated to the university, but they too were counseled. Amit Verma, assistant professor, pharmacy, MJP Rohilkhand University, said, “To reach out to more students, we first created WhatsApp groups of class representatives from 21 departments. We shared videos, articles and other important documents on mental health, anxiety and stress. The class representatives later formed other WhatsApp groups with fellow students, and shared the videos and documents.” Apart from Verma, professor K K Maheshwari of the pharmacy department is also managing the helpline. Verma added, “To facilitate students, we first send them a questionnaire soon that they can self check if they have anxiety or stress. Once that is done, we counsel them.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/rohilkhand-varsity-helpline-to-the-rescue-as-students-suffer-from-lockdown-anxiety/articleshow/75148467.cms||Priyangi Agarwal
April 15, 2020||Ahmedabad||60% of Ahmedabad’s cases are in 8.7 sq km||AHMEDABAD: Nearly 57% of Ahmedabad city’s Covid positive cases come from just five wards that constitute the 609-year-old Walled City and spread over roughly 8.7 sq km. The virus ran amok in the closely clustered neighbourhoods in these dense municipal wards, propelled by close-knit human interactions which make social distancing a challenge. A large part of the Walled City is under curfew for the containment of the virus. The Ahmedabad Municipal Corporation (AMC) said that about 889 houses are under the containment zone already in these five Walled City areas. Outside the Walled City in the South Zone, Danilimda and Behrampura are the two municipal wards that have 64 cases and counting. Close to 49 are from one lane in Danilimda area with three small housing complexes including Saifi Manzil and Sharukh Apartments accounting for 30 asymptomatic Covid patients. They were discovered by the AMC’s health teams. In the Walled City, the Covid epicentres include Matawadi Pol in Dariapur, Mankoli ki Pol near Manekchowk, Patherwali Masjid in Raikhad, Bhungali ni Pol in Jamalpur, Jivan Pol near Panch Patti in Kalupur, Mol ni Pol in Dariapur, Jamalpur Pagathiya, and Khand ni Sheri also in Jamalpur. A senior health official in one of urban health centres said that by 7:30am the small bylanes turned into small sales points. “Curfew was the only way we could control the spread in the Walled City and a few areas under the Danilimda police station,” municipal commissioner Vijay Nehra said. “We chose the 1 pm to 4 pm period to allow a relaxation because most surfaces will be hot, making it difficult for the virus to survive. Besides, only women can come out during the curfew relaxation.” State health department officials said that the sudden spike in cases in Ahmedabad over the past five days is primarily the result of discoveries through intensive door-to-door surveys and aggressive testing in eight identified clusters. “In several areas such as Danilimda, it has been observed that one positive person was a potential carrier for more than five persons,” said a senior state health department official. Jayanti Ravi, principal secretary (health & family welfare), said that the authorities are expanding testing in areas outside the hotspots. “Even in Ahmedabad, the areas other than those under isolation will also witness testing,” she said. The principal secretary had earlier mentioned that the figures are not alarming and on expected lines as each test helps quickly identify potential positive cases.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/60-of-citys-cases-are-in-8-7-sq-km/articleshow/75149214.cms||---
April 15, 2020||Hubballi||7 fever clinics set up in twin cities||Dharwad: The district administration has set up seven fever clinics in the twin cities. In addition, SDM Medical College Hospital in Sattur and Railway Hospital in Hubballi have been declared as designated hospitals for throat swab collection. With this the number of fever clinics has risen to nine. Dedicated medical staff will be deployed at these centres. Fever clinics will work from 9am to 4pm and the throat swab collection will be done round the clock. The DHO has been told to supply all required medical equipment to fever clinics in a day. Deputy commissioner Deepa Cholan has instructed Ayush doctors not to treat patients with breathlessness and high fever. If any such patients come to their clinic, the doctors should immediately inform the health department, she said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hubballi/7-fever-clinics-set-up-in-twin-cities/articleshow/75147325.cms||---
April 15, 2020||Coimbatore||Coimbatore: Helplines go quiet; officials not sure if abuse cases have come down||COIMBATORE: The district has recorded only a negligible number of domestic violence and other abuse cases ever since the imposition of lockdown. The number of calls to women helpline, childline and police control room too has come down considerably. While officials are uncertain whether such cases have really come down, experts say cases are going unreported and that there are all reasons for a spike in abuse, especially domestic violence cases. As per the available data, the women helpline 181, which received only less than five calls in March-end, has not received a single call so far in April. They usually receive at least 30-35 calls a month from women who are in distress. While the childline has not received any complaint call apart from the one that alerted about a child marriage that was stopped on Sunday, the police control room has also not been receiving any abuse complaint calls of late. A district administration official said, “The public are aware of the helplines. We are not sure why they have stopped calling us abruptly. We don’t know whether the abuse cases have come down or that they are going unreported. As people are spending time together in their houses, chances of outsiders abusing them are low. It is a positive thing amid the pandemic.” However, experts are of the view that there are every chances of a spike in domestic violence cases, especially when people are frustrated to the core. It is a clear case of such incidents going unreported, they say. Latha Sundaram, founder of Aram foundation charitable trust, said, “Due to lack of employment and daily wage, people are struggling to meet their daily needs and they are frustrated. In general, men tend to take out their frustration on women. Then, how would the incidents go down.” Pointing out that women were subjected to abuse when men were spending more time at workplace than at home, she said, “Now that they are confined to their houses, incidences of domestic violence might definitely have shot up.” Expressing a similar view, A Radhika, district secretary, All India Democratic Women Association said, “Either women are not having the privacy to make calls as family members are around them all the time, or they are playing them down as they are too engrossed in other burning issues like feeding their family.” An activist, who didn’t want to be named, said people might have been under the impression that such complaints would not be accepted during the lockdown or that officials might not be available to handle their cases.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/helplines-go-quiet-officials-not-sure-if-abuse-cases-have-come-down/articleshow/75149212.cms||Nivedha Selvam
April 15, 2020||Jodhpur||Jodhpur man vacates house for isolation centre||JODHPUR: While the administration has had to convince people to let out their properties to develop quarantine centres, 38-year-old Govind Singh Rathore voluntarily vacated his house and other properties for the administration. This Jodhpur man, who owns a guesthouse and runs an NGO for women empowerment, has moved to his ancestral village Setrawa, which is 100 km away. Govind left for Setrawa along with his wife Mukta Kumari, son Ayushraj (14), daughter Hirnakshi Kumari (5), two friends, their families and some guests from his guesthouse. This was his way of doing something for the Covid-19 suspects. But once in his village, Govind realized that he had a bigger job waiting for him. He came across several daily wagers who couldn’t manage one meal as the lockdown had left them jobless. “Initially, we decided to provide them with the food items we had brought from home but we quickly realized the gravity of the situation. Helping just one family was not enough when there were so many others that needed assistance,” said Rathore. Rathore began with a survey of eligible families with the help of the sarpanch and a team of locals. He identified 246 families in Setrava, Viramdeogarh, Dera and Lawaran villages with a focus on widows, unattended elderly, disabled, etc. He began raising funds on a cloud platform. While Mukta and other women cook for the family members and volunteers, the children are focusing on academics via digital classes launched by their school. “One team goes to the grocery store to buy ration, separates it and packs it for distribution to 25-30 families a day, the other team goes to houses informing people about Covid-19, distributing soaps and surveying the families who need ration,” said Rathore. The ration kit comprises all the ration items for use by a family of 5-6 members which could last for 12 days. “The first round of ration distribution to 246 families is complete, the second round has begun for another 25 families,” said Govind’s associate Virendra Singh, adding that the teams have also stitched and distributed 300 reusable masks. Sarpanch Gopal Singh said that while the urban areas were offering ration assistance to the needy but rural areas were suffering tremendously. “We are grateful to Govind and his team for helping the depressed villagers in this time of crisis,” said sarpanch, vowing all possible help to the team. A team of foreign volunteers who had been camping in the village carrying out social services has also joined Rathore in distribution of ration kits adhering to all requisite precautions like masks and social distancing. With more and more families needing assistance, Rathore has urged people to sacrifice a cup of coffee in a coffee shop which costs about Rs 90 and donate it for the cause. “Even this modest contribution could mean one square meal for a family of 5-6 members,” said Rathore, who is also trying to provide fodder to the cattle in the village. One of the beneficiaries Anchi Devi (47) has an ailing husband and three children to feed. Apart from two square meals, medicines for her husband are also a big issue for her. “Govind has come as an angel for us in this difficult time when there was no work and food. He also helped get the medicines for my husband,” said Anchi Devi.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jodhpur/jodhpur-man-vacates-house-for-isolation-centre/articleshow/75149661.cms||Ajay Parmar
April 15, 2020||Delhi||Sub-inspector comes to rescue of injured peacock in Delhi||NEW DELHI: In a heart-winning gesture, a Delhi Police officer rescued an injured peacock in north Delhi’s Mall Road area and got it treated. Sub-inspector, Om Prakash Thakur, received a call at 7:43pm on April 9 about an injured peacock lying in the garden of a house. The officer immediately reached the spot, but the peacock was not letting anyone touch it. “I tried calling the civic bodies, NGOs and other helpline numbers, but in vain. It was difficult to catch the bird. Luckily, I was able to speak to the Wildlife SOS helpline and I explained to the coordinator the issue. They could not arrive there, but asked me to cover the bird with a cloth and then move closer to pick it up,” said Thakur. “Immediately, I informed the nearest police control room van. With the help of a cloth piece provided by the family that had called police earlier, I was able to catch the bird. I then took it to a veterinary hospital near Red Fort for treatment,” he added. The veterinarians there informed the cops that the bird had fractured the leg and would need care. They bandaged it and put it in a cage. “As of now, the bird is in the cage. Once it recovers, we will release it at a suitable location,” said Thakur. Rohit Prakash Goyal, who had informed the police about the bird fallen in their garden, lauded Thakur’s efforts. “To my surprise, the cop arrived in minutes and helped the bird. He later showed us pictures of the bird being treated. My salute to him for such a wonderful job,” Goyal added. “Since the peacock’s eyes were covered, it sat calmly. This made the cop’s job easier,” said Rajbir Singh, the helpline coordinator at Wildlife SOS.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/sub-inspector-comes-to-rescue-of-injured-peacock/articleshow/75149872.cms||---
April 15, 2020||Bhopal||Fare refund relief for all train ticket holders||BHOPAL: With Prime Minister Narendra Modi announcing on Tuesday that the coronavirus lockdown period has been extended till May 3, travellers who had booked train and air tickets began making frantic calls about the status of their tickets. West Central Railway and Bhopal airport authorities have made it clear that their services will resume only after the lockdown ends. Railways have, however, assured the travellers that the period of cancellation has been extended for full refund. Due to the lockdown, all mail express trains (including premium trains), passenger trains and suburban trains will not ply till May 3. Passengers will be given full refund on the tickets issued for all these cancelled trains, stated WCR public relation officer Priyanka Dixit. WCR has made it clear that passengers who had booked e-tickets for the said period of journey, are not required to cancel the tickets; the entire amount of fare will be automatically refunded to their accounts (from which the reservations were made). Similarly, passengers who booked tickets from reservation counters for cancelled trains till May 3, can take full refund till 31 July, 2020. Advance reservations will remain closed till further orders. During this period, movement of goods trains and parcel trains will continue to ensure the supply of essential goods to different parts of the country. Same is the situation with the flight movement. Back in March, flight operations were stopped. But now, with the Covid-19 lockdown extended, airlines have further cancelled their schedules till May 3 at Bhopal airport. The director of Raja Bhoj airport in Bhopal , Anil Vikram, said only relief and special, non-passenger flights will operate. “Two such flights operated at Bhopal airport on Tuesday. All other operations have been suspended till May 3,” Vikram added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/fare-refund-relief-for-all-train-ticket-holders/articleshow/75148462.cms||Ramendra Singh
April 15, 2020||Dehradun||Uttarakhand reports 2 new cases of Covid-19||DEHRADUN: After a gap of five day, Uttarakhand on Tuesday reported two new Covid-19 positive cases taking the state's tally to 37. According to the health department, the two new positive cases that were reported from Haridwar district are both members of Tablighi Jamaat members. While one of the new cases is from Bhagwanpur, the other one is from Laksar. Also, the state health department had claimed that two more patients infected with coronavirus, admitted at Doon hospital, have recovered after they tested negative twice in the past 48 hours. Meanwhile, apart from the two positive cases, 146 new samples were sent for testing on April 14. The state has conducted 2,174 test till now among which 272 reports are awaited. The health department has also issued an advisory regarding tobacco consumption. As per the guidelines, people should not consume and spit tobacco in public as chewing tobacco and other related products such as pan masala and areca nut increase the production of saliva followed by a very strong urge to spit and spitting in public places could enhance spread of the covid 19 virus.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/ukhand-reports-2-new-cases-of-covid-19/articleshow/75148440.cms||Ishita Mishra
April 15, 2020||Bareilly||Sugar industry in UP contributes to over 45% in hand sanitizer production||Pilibhit: Sugar mills in UP are producing over 45% of the total sanitiser being manufactured in the state. It is a key disinfectant being used to keep hands clean in the battle against coronavirus.“Although the hand sanitiser is not a sugar mil product, we have started its production on the state government's behest to assist in the war against corona infection," said Deepak Guptara, general secretary of the UP Sugar Mill Associaton (UPSMA).Guptara said as many as many as 24 distilleries associated with their respective sugar mills in UP were producing the hand sanitiser.According to official records, the hand sanitiser is being produced by 70 companies, including10 alcohol manufacturing units, 28 sanitiaer companies, three industrial institutions, including the Northern Railway Charbagh workshop, and five drug and chemical houses apart from the sugar industry.The production report of the state government reveals that a total quantity of 1,19,865 litres of hand sanitiser was post lockdown period and the sugar industry manufactured 5,46,460 litres of sanitiser.Of the total production, as much as 53,758.90 litres of hand sanitiser was provided to the state government free of cost by the manufacturing companies, including the sugar industry.“The involvement of the sugar industry in hand sanitiser production was a joint decision of the state government and the industry," said Sanjay R. Bhoosreddy, principal secretary of the sugarcane and sugar industry,UP government.He said government has not assigned any production target to sugar mills. They are free to produce as much as they want.The production will continue till the hand sanitiser is needed, Bhoosreddy added.Regarding the payment of sanitiser supplied, a mill official said governent was yet to pay any money.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/sugar-industry-in-up-contributes-to-over-45-in-hand-sanitizer-production/articleshow/75148473.cms||---
April 15, 2020||Hyderabad||Telangana: Rice & cash doles on, many families still await ration cards||HYDERABAD: Eshwar and his father N Vandaganthi from Miyapur are worried as to how will their family of four survive, with essentials set to last only a week. With the lockdown extended till May 3, the family is reaching out to NGOs and individual for help. “We have applied for a ration card a couple of years ago. We are yet to get it, the application is still pending,” said Eshwar, an Intermediate student. Yuveswari, a city-based activist who is working closely with slum dwellers, highlighted this concern among several families. “Out of the 222 families we distributed essential goods, we identified 106 families without ration cards. Some people have ration cards of another state, while others have applied but their applications are pending. These people have no access to the PDS ration,” she said. In Shaheen Nagar of Bismillah Colony, local Shaik Chand Pasha said there are around 60 such families without a ration card. “Every day at least five to six persons land up at FPS displaying their Aadhaar cards since they do not have ration cards seeking PDS rice and other items. We have to turn them down, including those who say they had applied for one. We have been given direction to provide ration only to the card holders,” said P Veeresham of Hyderabad ration dealers’ welfare association. So far, officials are distributing rice and essentials to card holders, while no action plan has been charted out to cover the non-cardholders. “We have completed 90% of the distribution and will take up the next phase in May. We are only covering the ration card holders,” said Satyanarayana Reddy, commissioner, civil supplies. The commissioner said the department has enough stocks to last for 10 months.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/rice-cash-doles-on-many-families-still-await-ration-cards/articleshow/75149099.cms||Aditi Mallick
April 15, 2020||Ahmedabad||Viewing of child porn spiked in Ahmedabad, says study||AHMEDABAD: The idle minds of some from Ahmedabad under lockdown are turning into devil’s workshops. Sickeningly so, a study by Indian Child Protection Fund (ICPF), revealed that Ahmedabad is among the cities of western part of India, where there is high demand for child pornographic material online. ICPF study reports that since the lockdown was imposed to curb the spread of Covid, online data monitoring websites showed an increase in demand for searches relating to child pornography. ICPF has released a report titled ‘Child Sexual Abuse Material in India’, a research of child pornography demand in 100 cities in India including Ahmedabad, New Delhi, Chennai, Mumbai, Kolkata, Bhubaneswar and Indore, among others. Shockingly, the report reveals up to 200% increase in demand for violent content. Interestingly, the helpline for child abuse, Childline, has seen a drop in cases of child sexual abuse in Ahmedabad; however, cases of physical, mental and emotional abuse continue. Explaining the trend in the city, Binal Patel, city coordinator, Ahmedabad, Childline, said, “We have hardly seen cases of sexual abuse in Ahmedabad. But this is because most kids are confined to home with their parents, under their constant supervision and therefore, the chances of abuse are less. However, the same phenomenon may be driving predators online. Either way, it is a serious concern and needs to be addressed.” Patel also said that staying indoors with parents has also led to increase in friction between children and parents, as a result of which many undergo physical abuse. “We have also seen a number of cases of discrimination, especially against the girl child,” Patel added. In the wake of rising consumption of child pornography online, ICPF has called for stringent measures to curb this. “This is a blatant violation of the directions of the Honourable Supreme Court, and a violation of national policy. Pornographic websites are playing hide-and-seek with Indian law and judiciary by simply changing their website URLs. The Government of India must urgently crack down on child pornography and also initiate a global dialogue for an international convention against child sexual abuse material,” said Nivedita Ahuja, spokesperson for ICPF. “This presents a chilling reality of the extreme threat faced by India’s children during this period of lockdown. Demand for child sexual abuse material indicates children are more vulnerable to sexual predators,” according to a statement issued by ICPF.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/viewing-of-child-porn-spiked-in-city-says-study/articleshow/75149225.cms||Niyati Parikh
April 15, 2020||Jaipur||Rajasthan: Kite flying banned in Bikaner to check coronavirus||JAIPUR: With a lot of people huddling together to fly kites from their terraces, the Bikaner district collector on Tuesday banned the manufacture and sale of kites and manjha. At Bikaner, there’s a tradition to fly kites in the run up to Akshay Tritiya festival on April 26. The district administration in consultation with doctors said the virus could easily spread during kite flying. “There are cases when people are asymptomatic and are flying kites. So, when a kite snaps and lands in somebody’s house, the latter might get affected,” said an officer at the district collectorate in Bikaner. In Jaipur’s curfew-bound Walled City, people in large numbers fly kites. Jaipur police commissionerate, however, is yet to come up with any such instruction. “For rural areas which are under Jaipur district other than the part which is under Jaipur police commissionerate, we have asked the SDM concerned to keep a check on kite flying,” said an officer with Jaipur collectorate. Bikaner collector Kumar Pal Gautam while issuing the order of banning kites asked authorities for its strict compliance. Doctors at SMS Hospital said the virus can survive for four hours on kite paper while it can survive for eight to 10 hours on thread. “If an infected person is flying kites, it is likely that they can infect other people through kites,” said doctor CL Naval, a senior physician at SMS Hospital.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/kite-flying-banned-in-bikaner-to-check-virus/articleshow/75149665.cms||Ashish Mehta
April 15, 2020||Hyderabad||Buying entire produce of bengal gram may cost Rs 800 crore to Telangana||HYDERABAD: The state government may end up spending as much as Rs 800 crore from its pocket should the Union government not come to its rescue and purchase 1.89 lakh metric tonnes of bengal gram. Due to the lockdown, the price of bengal gram offered by traders in the open market has come down to Rs 4,200 per quintal, in some cases even less. As a result, farmers are demanding that the state government purchase the entire quantity at the minimum support price of Rs 4,875 per quintal. Currently, the central government offers an MSP of Rs 4,875 per quintal of bengal gram and procures it through the National Agricultural Cooperative Marketing Federation of India (NAFED). The central government procures 25% of the produce at MSP. Chief minister K Chandrasekhar Rao has written to Prime Minister Narendra Modi to increase the procurement through NAFED from 25% to 100%. Officials said that as per Centre’s guidelines, farmers should be encouraged to take up cultivation of pulses as the country is yet to become self sufficient on that front. “In Telangana, bengal gram has been sown in 3.27 lakh acres with 84,000 acres crop in Adilabad district, over 73,000 acres in Kamareddy, 60,000 acres in Nirmal, 30,000 acres in Nizamabad, 22,000 acres in Sanga Reddy and remaining in other districts,” agriculture secretary and commissioner B Janardhan Reddy told TOI. The chief minister has assured farmers that the state will procure bengal gram even if the Centre does not.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/buying-entire-produce-of-bengal-gram-may-cost-rs-800-crore-to-t/articleshow/75149230.cms||Roushan Ali
April 15, 2020||Dehradun||Helpline set up to address wage-related queries||Dehradun: A control room has been set up by the Union ministry of labour and employment to address issues such as wage-related grievances of workers arising in the backdrop of Covid-19. It also aims at mitigating problems of migrant workers through coordination with various state governments. “To deal with incidents where the employers may deduct salaries of workers or count the lockdown period as leave without pay, the helpline was thought about. The helpline is important considering the extension of the lockdown till May 3,” said regional labour commissioner Sushil Kumar. An official statement issued by the central government said that 20 control rooms have been set up across India, including Dehradun. The control room will function under the office of the chief labour commissioner. The call center facility can be accessed by the workers through cell phone number, WhatsApp and even email. The number and email assigned for Dehruadun is 9457467433 and rlcdehradun@nic.in and dyclc.ddn-uk@nic.in. Officials added that the control room will maintain a digital data base of the complaints received and action taken to resolve them. The progress of work will be monitored from time to time by the ministry officials as well. Kumar informed that the ministry has also launched a campaign to sensitise the employers and also inform them about the action that may follow on non-compliance of government orders regarding non-deduction of salaries. “Exemplary steps are being taken to handle this unprecedented humanitarian crisis. We are apprising the employers to handle the situation sensitively and not deduct the salaries of the workers,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/helpline-set-up-to-address-wage-related-queries/articleshow/75148463.cms||---
April 15, 2020||Vadodara||Cops track travel history of first Nagarwada patient||Vadodara: A casual visit by a resident of Nagarwada area to Ahmedabad and a congregation of jamatis last month have turned the locality into a hotspot for coronavirus. Police investigations have revealed that the man, who was first to test positive in Nagarwada, had visited Dani Limda area in March, one of the hotspots in Ahmedabad. “Initially, he refused to reveal his travel history but we checked his mobile call details and found out that he had visited Ahmedabad. He then admitted to have visited Dani Limda and some other areas. He got infected there and returned to Nagarwada,” said Jaydeepsinh Jadeja, DCP (crime). The police said he infected many others in Nagarwada, an area that now has over 90 positive Covid cases. The police said a congregation of jamatis in Nagarwada too has been a cause of concern. Crime branch sleuths revealed that these people from Gujarat, Maharashtra and Andhra Pradesh had gathered in a mosque at Nagarwada in March. “About 10 of them from Mumbai had left the city on March 22, while another batch of 10 from Bhavnagar left later. One of them from Bhavnagar tested positive for coronavirus. He and others had met many residents of Nagarwada,” said Jadeja. “They also visited four different mosques in the city. We will now find out whom they met in these mosques so that they can be kept in quarantine. The tourists from Chittoor in Andhra Pradesh are still stuck in the city but they all have tested negative for the virus,” Jadeja told TOI.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/cops-track-travel-history-of-first-nagarwada-patient/articleshow/75147198.cms||Tushar Tere
April 15, 2020||Hyderabad||Flight operations from May 4, airlines tell anxious flyers||HYDERABAD: Soon after Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s announcement on the extension of nationwide lockdown on Tuesday, airline operators were flooded with queries from passengers, who had booked flights between April 15 and May 3. While many, stranded in places away from their families, sought help to return home, others appealed for refunds and rescheduling of their travel plans. Following a flood of anxious questions from travellers, some carriers confirmed that they would begin operations from May 4, albeit in a phased manner. “Initially starting with a slightly curtailed capacity, the airline will increase the operating capacity over the subsequent months, also re-opening selected international flights, depending on the existing international travel guidelines,” IndiGo airlines said in its statement. “My wife is pregnant and about to give birth in two days. On this (April)15th, I booked flight ticket from Hyderabad to Rajahmundry Now lockdown is extended. If flights are running from tomorrow I want to go my hometown Rajahmundry(sic)” tweeted N Krishna Chowdary. He also appealed to Telangana industries minister K T Rama Rao for assistance. Another person, Durga Singh, who is also caught in a similar situation, has written to the authorities in both Goa and Hyderabad, hoping to find some way to return to the city. “I’m a resident of Hyderabad and have been stuck in a hotel for 27 days. My flight has been cancelled two times. I want to go back to my home in Hyderabad,” he said. Meanwhile, dozens of other travellers sought clarity over the status of their current bookings even as most airlines offered a credit note — with a one-year validity — against every cancellation. “@flyspicejet: I booked a flight from Hyderabad to Jaipur for 15th April, 2020. As govt has again imposed lockdown, so the flights should have got cancelled. But Spicejet has not cancelled the flight and also no clue about refund of the money. Please resolve my query asap,” tweeted Harsh Lakhwani. While the carrier has offered a credit shell, which can be used till February 2021, Lakhwani demanded a refund.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/flight-ops-from-may-4-airlines-tell-anxious-flyers/articleshow/75149082.cms||---
April 15, 2020||Hyderabad||Cybercrime cases rise in Hyderabad amid lockdown||HYDERABAD: Cybercrime sleuths of Hyderabad police commissionerate received seven complaints on Tuesday, taking the number of cases booked since lockdown to 160. On Tuesday, a fraudster posing as a wine shop representative siphoned off Rs 92,000 from a private firm employee’s bank account by promising to supply a bottle of brandy. Most of the complaints are of victims who fall prey to fraudsters posing as PayTM, liquor shops, courier company representatives and armed forces or paramilitary personnel trying to sell vehicles. An accountant from Sultan Bazar approached cybercrime sleuths and lodged a complaint alleging that a fraudster had siphoned off Rs 92,000 from his account by posing as representative of a liquor store. “The victim searched on the internet for home delivery of liquor and found a phone number of Bagga Wines promising to deliver liquor in Hyderabad. The victim dialled the number and the fraudster posing as liquor store representative, gathered the victim’s credit card details and also the OTPs to transfer Rs 92,000 to different e-wallets in six transactions,” cybercrime ACP KVM Prasad said. A retired government employee from Habsiguda, who was waiting for a parcel, searched on the internet for the customer care number of the courier service and the fraudster posing as an employee made him fill details of his debit and credit cards in a Google form sent through SMS. “He lost Rs 90,000,” the ACP said. A stock broker from the city who wanted to get a fancy cellphone number lost Rs 55,000 to fraudsters and a private employee was duped by fraudsters for Rs 32,000 in the guise of KYC update for his PayTm account. “The accused made him install Quickviewer remote desktop app and siphoned off the money from his account,” police said. A constable lost Rs 36,000 to a fraudster posing as a CISF official on a e-classifieds website to sell a bike and a private employee from Kavadiguda lost Rs 32,000 to fraudster posing as Army man on the same portal offering to sell a bike.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/cybercrime-cases-rise-in-hyd-amid-lockdown/articleshow/75149103.cms||Mahesh Buddi
April 15, 2020||Ahmedabad||Gujarat: Congress MLA tests coronavirus positive hours after meeting CM & deputy CM||GANDHINAGAR: Top political and administrative leadership of Gujarat leading the battle against Covid-19 in the state found the sword of the highly contagious virus hanging over their heads after a Congress MLA tested Covid positive hours after he met with CM Vijay Rupani, DyCM Nitin Patel and MoS, home, Pradipsinh Jadeja in Gandhinagar on Tuesday.  Government sources said the meeting involving three Congress MLAs lasted for over 30 minutes as the CM discussed the proposal of clamping curfew in these constituencies which are all Covid-19 hotspots. Pictures of the meeting in Gandhinagar triggered panic as the CM was not seen wearing a mask while the MLA's mask was seen hanging on his chin. Rupani, however, insisted there was no need to panic as social distancing norms were followed in the meeting. “The MLA was sitting about eight meters away from me. There is no need to panic as we have been taking all precautions. There is also no need to be quarantined,” said Rupani. Ashwani Kumar, secretary to CM, said that all meetings of the CM are expected to be held through video conferencing as per schedule. “However, final decision will be taken as per medical advise,” a release issued late on Tuesday night stated. After this meeting, government announced to clamp down in the areas, all coronavirus hotspots, from April 15, 6 am to April 21, 6 am in a bid to arrest virus spread in Ahmedabad which has recorded 373 or 57% of the total 650 positive cases recorded till Tuesday evening. Death toll in state reaches 28Of the total 78 new cases, 53 were detected in Ahmedabad. Two more deaths were recorded, taking the death toll to 28. Only women will be allowed to step out to buy essentials and medicines daily from 1 pm to 4 pm. The news of the Congress MLA testing Covid-19 positive unleashed tremors of apprehension across the political and bureaucratic class as the MLA, active in enforcing lockdown in minority areas along with fellow Congress leaders, is also reported to have met city police commissioner Ashish Bhatia and Ahmedabad municipal commissioner Vijay Nehra over the past few days. The case, however, became the talking points in political and bureaucratic circles as the Congress MLAs kept attending high profile meetings and meeting people despite having given his sample for testing for coronavirus a few days ago. His colleague MLA Gyasuddin Shaikh said, “When we met the CM in the afternoon, his report was still awaited. He had given sample for testing a couple of days ago after running fever. I have no symptoms and hence have not opted to get tested. If required, I will get tested.” Danilimda MLA Shailesh Parmar said while he travelled separately in a car while the MLA and Shaikh used the same car to travel to Gandhinagar. “We maintained social distancing norms in the meeting with the CM and Dy CM,” said Parmar. As on Tuesday evening, Gujarat has carried out 15,984 tests out of which 650 were positive and 15,334 were negative. Jayanti Ravi, principal secretary (health), said that in past 24 hours Gujarat conducted 1733 tests out of which 78 were positive. “Testing has been extended to all the areas of the state including 13 districts from where no positive cases have been recorded so far,” she said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/cong-mla-tests-ve-hours-after-meeting-cm-dycm/articleshow/75149137.cms||Kapil Dave
April 15, 2020||Bengaluru||Bengaluru: Virus fear keeps haemophiliacs away from Victoria Hospital||BENGALURU: Haemophiliacs are wary of visiting the blood disorder centre on Victoria Hospital premises because of the 100-bed dedicated Covid-19 facility set up at the Trauma Care Centre on the campus. Victoria Hospital is the only government facility in Bengaluru where haemophilia patients can avail treatment. Haemophilia is a hereditary genetic disorder that impairs the body’s ability to control blood clotting. Patients don’t bleed any faster than normal but can bleed for a longer time. Their blood doesn’t have enough clotting factor, which is a protein that controls bleeding. A serious disorder, it puts the patient at the risk of death due to excessive bleeding. The main treatment for severe haemophilia involves replacement of the specific clotting factor, which is taken from donated blood or through lab preparation. To get these factors inserted in their veins (similar to blood transfusion), the patients visit Victoria Hospital periodically. However, they are are not showing up. “The daycare centre hasn’t been closed even for a day, but patients are not coming,” said a senior doctor in charge of the unit at Victoria Hospital. While haemophilia can’t be cured, patients can lead a near normal life through prophylaxis treatment. Prophylaxis is replacement of the clotting factor on a regular basis and helps the blood clot normally in case of an injury or bleed. The treatment prevents bleeding and joint destruction. Kolkata man’s death sparks worryPatients’ groups are concerned about visiting Victoria Hospital as it houses the Covid-19 facility. The fear has only grown after the death of a haemophilia patient in Kolkata on April 6. The 34-year-old man had developed fever and was taken to the Covid-19 isolation ward in a hospital. It’s the patient was actually suffering from bleeding in the brain but it was mistaken for fever, rendering him a Covid-19 suspect. The man’s relatives, from a lower socio-economic background, had not disclosed he had haemophilia when he was taken to the Covid-19 ward. “The man was said to have got infected in the hospital and died. His swab sample tested positive for Covid-19 in the laboratory after his death. This case has come as a shocker for all haemophilia patients,” a haemophiliac from Bengaluru told TOI. Vikash Goel, president, Hemophilia Federation of India, said: “We have arranged for clotting factors at the Bengaluru chapter’s office in Mahaveer Jain Hospital and St John’s hospital. I suggest people with haemophilia don’t venture into hospitals for small bleeds that can be managed with ice therapy or painkillers.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/virus-fear-keeps-haemophiliacs-away-from-victoria-hospital/articleshow/75148941.cms||Sunitha Rao R
April 15, 2020||Bengaluru||Bengaluru institutes get nod to develop technical solutions||BENGALURU: The National Centre for Biological Sciences (NCBS) and Institute for Stem Cell Science and Regenerative Medicine (inStem) in Bengaluru have received approval to immediately undertake projects that aim to develop affordable, field-deployable actions in the fight against Covid-19. Part of the Bangalore Life Science Cluster (BLiSC), projects at both these institutes will deliver new disinfection technology, efficient sampling methodologies, new pooled testing methods and technologies to screen potential drugs to treat the virus. Given the acute shortage of reagents for the manufacture and procurement of diagnostic test kits in the country and worldwide, a rapid compressed sensing technology for Covid-19 pooled testing is being developed by a team led by Sandeep Krishna (NCBS), Dasaradhi Palakodeti (inStem), and Uma Ramakrishnan (NCBS). A team led by Praveen Vemula (inStem) and Satyajit Mayor (NCBS) is working on a rapidly deployable method of disinfection which can neutralise the virus on contact with any surface, given the acute shortage of masks and protective gear. Similarly, a rapid colour-based assay for point-of-care detection is being developed by Arati Ramesh (NCBS) and Akash Gulyani’s (inStem / Univ. of Hyderabad) team. NCBS’ Shannon Olsoon’s team is working on a community questionnaire in multiple languages to assess the possibility of using anosmia as a potential screening methodology, as studies have shown that loss of sense-of-smell (anosmia) is a symptom of Covid-19. A method to rapidly screen FDA-approved drugs that interfere with key steps of viral entry and processing is being developed by Arjun Guha (inStem), Satyajit Mayor (NCBS) and Vardharajan Sundaramurthy (NCBS). Further, Mu kund Thattai, Sandeep Krishna and Madan Rao of NCBS and Srikanth Sastry of JNCASR are working on mathematical models of Covid-19 spread. These will include detailed agent-based models and coarse-grained epidemiological models. “These will be fit to national-level quantitative data on Covid-19 spread, to provide recommendations on outbreak suppression,” the statement added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/bluru-institutes-get-nod-to-develop-tech-solutions/articleshow/75148955.cms||---
April 15, 2020||Coimbatore||Lack of support, facilities, demotivate PG doctors at CMCH in treating positive case||COIMBATORE: A day after two postgraduate (PG) students of Coimbatore Medical College (CMC) tested positive for the novel coronavirus, other students on Tuesday said they were demotivated in treating Covid-19 patients because of lack of support and facilities from the college administration. They said the two doctors, who tested positive for the virus, were not being treated properly. While the hostel premises are being fumigated, the 15-odd hostel mess staff have been on strike since Monday afternoon, demanding safety gears. A student said, “They didn’t cook dinner on Monday, and breakfast and lunch on Tuesday. We are forced to place orders on Swiggy or manage with biscuits.” Pointing out that they have all been assigned duty at the ESI Hospital for a period of five days, following which they have to remain in quarantine for 14 days, another student said, “While we have to stay at the hospital during the period, we are not provided with proper accommodation. According to people who were posted there, they couldn’t have proper bath after duty as there was no water at the ESI hostel. Some of them in the previous batch have had to come back to our hostel a couple of days to have bath after duty.” Another student said there wasn’t enough space at the circuit house, which could accommodate only 14 people, for them to quarantine themselves after the five-day duty at the ESI hospital. “One has to remain in quarantine for 14 days. Since the circuit house was full, two people had to come back to the hostel itself. The college administration should have arranged accommodation for them.” Their biggest complaint was the “shaming” and “shabby treatment” of their two colleagues who tested positive for the virus. “The two had worked for eight to 10 hours a day on outpatient (OP) duty and examined Tablighi Jamaat cases just as they were coming in from April 2 to 6. They were not given proper goggles initially and were asked to sanitize and use other doctors’ goggles. The only way they got infected was through aerosol droplets, which could attach to the mucosa of their eyes,” said another student. “And after wearing that suit for eight hours, which can give anyone a headache, they didn’t have water at the ESI hostel to have a bath.” While one of them developed sore throat, fever and headache on the fourth day of his quarantine on Friday, the other one developed fever on Saturday. They decided to go directly to the ESI hospital on Sunday evening and give their nasal swab without a delay, a student said. “Medical superintendent of Coimbatore Medical College and Hospital (CMCH) Dr Sadagopan, however, called them irresponsible and shouted at them for getting tested. While awaiting results, they were made to stay in the corona ward of CMCH, which was “nasty”. It had no toilet facilities and the beds that were used by earlier patients were not properly cleaned.” The students said the test results of the two should have arrived by Sunday night, but they were given to them only on Monday. “Our dean Dr B Ashokan did not bother calling them once to reassure them. Is this how the college treats the students who have put their lives at stake to treat Covid-19 patients,” asked another PG student. He said one of the two was an orthopedic surgery student but forced to handle a respiratory issue. “With what confidence should we now take up duty and risk our health?” he asked.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/lack-of-support-facilities-demotivate-pg-doctors-at-cmch-in-treating-ve-cases/articleshow/75149242.cms||---
April 15, 2020||Hyderabad||US nationals call for waiver of repatriation flights’ cost||HYDERABAD: Several United States nationals have expressed dissatisfaction over their government for levying high charges on them for repatriation flights. Many of these citizens, including those of Telugu origin, have signed an online petition asking that these costs be waived in light of the pandemic. A petition to this effect, started by Ahmed Shakil and addressed to the US president among others, on change.org has been signed by as many as 1,900 people. While praising the US government for its efforts to bring back Americans, the petition states that the cost incurred for repatriation flights be waived. “It is expected that the repatriation cost could be upward of $2000 or more per person. Many of the citizens can’t afford to pay during this time of crisis. Wonder how our government could even be asking so much money to cover expenses,” the petition reads. “I have signed the petition. It’s simple, the US government and the airlines shouldn’t be charging Americans stuck in a pandemic situation. Especially, airlines after a bailout from the government, with our taxpayer’s money,” said Murali Devarakonda, a US citizen. Murali also said that the cost was very high for a one-way trip. “It’s unconscionable for them to charge us upwards of $1900 for a one-way flight in flights that were packed! In the Mumbai-Atlanta flight that I was on, there was zero social distancing.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/us-nationals-call-for-waiver-of-repatriation-flights-cost/articleshow/75149127.cms||---
April 15, 2020||Hyderabad||Hyderabad: Lockdown slams brakes on lorries, fruits of labour rot||HYDERABAD: A farmer from Maharashtra got 100 lorry loads of oranges to Hyderabad in mid-March to preserve them in cold storage so that he could transport them to various parts of the country. The farmer, Anil Malpani, has now ended up with heavy losses soon after the lockdown was announced. Like Malpani’s, at least another 1,000 lorry loads of different types of fruits have also been brought to Hyderabad by traders and farmers to sell them. However, due to the lockdown the stock is lying in various cold storages on the outskirts of Hyderabad. “During the lockdown, vehicles should be allowed to transport fruits to different parts of the country,” said Malpani. Nearly nine crore farmers are engaged in horticulture crops. Owing to the lockdown and without the facility to transport their produce, including fruits and vegetables, this farm sector is in doldrums. Expressing his concern, farmers’ activist and chief advisor of Consortium of Indian Farmers Associations, P Chengal Reddy said fruits and vegetables should be transported to mandis, superbazars and to consumers directly. “The kisan (farmer) is as important as a jawan (soldier) in protecting the country,” Chengal Reddy said and added health of people takes precedence because of coronavirus and people should have access to different types of fruits. Reddy urged the government to allow transportation in a systematic manner as fruits are also essential commodities. “We have 310 million tonnes of horticulture crops cultivated across the country and 96 million tonnes of it are fruits,” he explained. A grape farmer from Nashik in Maharashtra said grapes were grown in 30,000 acres and four lakh tonnes of grapes were harvested. “With no exports, the entire stock is being sold at Rs 5 per kg as we have no means to transport,” Sandeep Dagusandhan, the grape farmer, said. Otherwise, he said, a good quality grapes would sell at Rs 200 per kg. Delhi is deprived of papaya which is sold throughout the year and a considerable quantity is sent from Andhra Pradesh. Maharashtra, Karnataka, Tamil Nadu and AP produce 16.38 million coconuts and export them to Delhi, Mumbai, Kolkata, Chennai, Bengaluru and Hyderabad. With lockdown in place, the farmers are not even harvesting the coconuts. Similar is the plight of nearly 200 polyhouses around Hyderabad where flowers are produced for export. The growers too are staring at huge losses.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/lockdown-slams-brakes-on-lorries-fruits-of-labour-rot/articleshow/75149077.cms||Ch Sushil Rao
April 15, 2020||Goa||27 British tourists staying in Salcete return to UK||Colva: While Prime minister Narendra Modi was addressing the nation at 10am on Tuesday, announcing an extension to the nationwide lockdown, 27 British tourists residing in Salcete were packing their bags to return to the UK. The tourists, mostly long-stay vacationers, were left stranded in Goa after the Indian government announced a 21-day nationwide lockdown on March 24 as well as cancelled international and domestic flights. They were picked up from Benaulim and Colva where they have been staying. The travel agent overseeing their bus transportation arrangement to the airport told TOI that the British embassy in Goa had arranged for a charter flight to facilitate the return of its stranded citizens. Interestingly, some of the tourists seemed hesitant to return to their country. One said she was not so keen to go back as the Covid-19 situation in the UK is rather grim. However, she said, she had to return as her financial situation did not permit her to stay here longer. Another tourist, Scot said that he was okay with returning to the UK only since it was summer there, but would not have, had it been the winter season.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/27-british-tourists-staying-in-salcete-return-to-uk/articleshow/75149667.cms||---
April 15, 2020||Ahmedabad||Intake process for medical, dental courses resumes||Ahmedabad: The Admission Committee for Professional Post-Graduate Medical Courses (ACPPGMC) has decided to resume the admission process for post-graduate medical and dental colleges. The committee, which had earlier deferred the admission procedure amid coronavirus pandemic, has announced the merit list online. It will conduct mock round and choice-filling round from April 17 onwards. “The ACPPGMC has begun the process of granting admissions to more than 2,170 candidates for post-graduation studies in medical and dental colleges of the state. The candidates include 1,950 for PG medical courses and 220 for PG dental,” said a source from the committee. “The Medical Counselling Committee (MCC), which had earlier announced to postpone the counselling process amid the lockdown due to Covid-19 outbreak, has suddenly decided to resume the admission process,” said the source. “As a result, the states have also decided to do the same,” the source added. .||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/intake-process-for-medical-dental-courses-resumes/articleshow/75149247.cms||---
April 15, 2020||Kolhapur||Selfie point at Kalamba for rule-breakers||Kolhapur: To ensure that people follow lockdown rules and stay indoors, city police have come up with a novel idea of setting up a selfie point on the Kolhapur-Gargoti road in the Kalamba area of the city. The aim is to ensure that people understand the importance of staying at home in view of lockdown and do not step out of their homes unnecessarily. The initiative has been undertaken by police officials attached with the Karveer division. Police said that they have made a banner displaying a line that reads, “I have come on road, I have broken rules. I am selfish.” The banner is used as a background and rule-breakers are asked to take a selfie with the banner. They said that the photos will be circulated on social media platforms to spread message of staying indoors among people. Prashant Amrutkar, deputy superintendent of police of Karveer division said, “Since the lockdown came into effect, we have undertaken a series of steps to ensure that people stay in their homes. We initially started registering cases against people who were found roaming on roads without a valid reason. Later on, we started seizing their vehicles and blocked roads by erecting barricades to obstruct vehicular movement. Post that, we began making videos of people who despite warnings step out of their homes for morning walk and violate rules. Despite this, we see people coming on roads at wee hours.” “We are planning to set up similar selfie points at Murgud, Gandhinagar, Gokul Shirgaon and other places in the city,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolhapur/selfie-point-at-kalamba-for-rule-breakers/articleshow/75149231.cms||Vivek Waghmode
April 15, 2020||Bareilly||TB patient whose sample collected for Covid test dies||Bareilly: A 48-year-old tuberculosis patient, whose sample was collected for Covid-19 test, died on Monday night at a private medical college. Officials said the patient had no history of coming in contact with a suspected novel coronavirus case, but his sample was collected as he had a breathing problem. His body has been kept in the mortuary and will be handed over for funeral after his Covid-19 test report arrives.According to sources, the man, a native of Hafizganj area of Bareilly, was admitted to the emergency ward of the medical college on Monday. After his examination, doctors found him to be a tuberculosis patient with a breathing problem. After his admission, his samples were collected and sent to Lucknow for Covid-19 test.Chief medical officer Dr Vineet Shukla said, “The patient neither had a travel history nor did he come in contact with any suspected case. His Covid-19 test report is awaited. His family will be allowed to cremate him after his report comes.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/tb-patient-whose-sample-collected-for-covid-test-dies/articleshow/75148494.cms||Priyangi Agarwal
April 15, 2020||Kolhapur||30 booked for spreading fake news on social media in Kolhapur||KOLHAPUR: As many as 30 people have been booked in the 22 cases registered in various police stations across the district for spreading fake news or messages targeting a particular community on social media. Most of the cases in the district have been registered after fake news and messages spewing hatred against a certain community were found making rounds in Whatsapp. The administrators of the Whatsapp groups have been booked. Police have appealed to the group administators to make changes in their settings to ensure fake messages are not posted or forwarded from their groups. “From April 7, WhatsApp has disabled forwarding frequently forwarded messages and also made some other relevant changes. We hope this reduces the incidence of forwarding fake news or messages that can disturb social and communal harmony in the district,” said a senior police officer. Mangesh Desai, assistant police inspector attached with cyber police station, Kolhapur, said, “We appeal the social media users to refrain from sending forwards unless they have confirmed the information in the message. We will register cases if we find anyone spreading fake news about coronavirus and communally charged messages.” “If we come across any such message being forwarded by any member of a Whatsapp group, we will book the group administrator. The group administrator should make changes to ensure that only he or she can post messages on the group till the lockdown is in effect,” said Desai.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolhapur/30-booked-for-spreading-fake-news-on-social-media/articleshow/75149243.cms||---
April 15, 2020||Kolkata||Artisans stare at grim future as orders dry up, turn to government for financial aid||Sandip Das, an artisan at a jewellery manufacturing unit in Bowbazar, would earn around Rs 12,000 every month, which was sufficient to sustain his family of six. But that was before the lockdown last month. Gourango Pal, an idol maker in Kumartuli, would receive orders to make busts of icons even in March and April before orders for Ganesh and Durga idols would start pouring in. During the entire lockdown period he has not received a single order. Babla Ghosh would earn his living weaving Tangail saris which were then sold from government-owned handloom stores. The Handloom Weavers’ Co-operative Society has not received order for even a single sari to distribute it among thousands of weavers scattered across the state. Artisans and skilled workers who eke out a living working at thousands of manufacturing units — that produce jewellery, handlooms, potter, etc — have not only lost their livelihoods but are also staring at an uncertain future. “There has been no production at any of the hubs in Bowbazar, Belgharia, Barrackpore and Domjur. Lakhs of such workers who would work in these manufacturing hubs will not receive any pay for this month,” said Bablu Dey, working president of Swarna Shilpa Bachao Forum. He said the industry was not very hopeful of a surge in demand even after the lockdown is over. The forum has written to the prime minister seeking financial help for these workers to keep them afloat at least till the festive season kicked in . “Even when the lockdown is over a surge in demand is unlikely because people’s priority will be basic things over luxurious products,” said Dey. Kumartuli, which comes alive in the run-up to Durga Puja, receives several orders for busts and idols throughout the year. But since the lockdown came into force, none of the idol makers received any order. “ Sundeep Bhutoria, who is associated with several NGOs and works with artisans, has written to Prime Minister Narendra Modi for a ‘survival package’ for these workers. The West Bengal chapter of the All India Gem and Jewellery Domestic Council has formed a relief fund and started depositing money in the accounts of the artisans. “We have been able to collect around Rs 1 crore. In the first phase, we have identified 10,000 artisans who are getting Rs 1,500 in their accounts. Individual outlets are helping their staff by providing essentials,” said Shankar Sen, vice-chairman of the council. “We pledge to our jewellery fraternity for financial contribution and extend their support to the artisans in the sector,” Shubadip Roy, organising secretary, SSBC.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/artisans-stare-at-grim-future-as-orders-dry-up-turn-to-govt-for-financial-aid/articleshow/75149257.cms||Zeeshan Javed
April 15, 2020||Hyderabad||Nothing less than 100% lockdown in hotspots: Ministers||HYDERABAD: Taking a serious note of lockdown violations, especially movement of people, ministers Eatala Rajender and KT Rama Rao have asked the officials to take stringent action against the violators. They asked the officials to ensure 100% lockdown in the city especially in the identified containment zones (hotspots). The ministers held a review meeting with officials as there has been rise in the number of Covid-19 cases in the city which has accounted more than 50% of the total number of cases in the state. KTR said both the state government and the Centre have extended the lockdown mainly to prevent the spread of the disease. “In the identified zones, 100% lockdown should be implemented by sealing the roads. All essential commodities should be supplied at their doorstep. If anybody wants to distribute commodities to the people living in the containment areas, they should consult the GHMC and police department,” the minister said. He asked the health department to visit every household in the hotspots and suspected cases should be sent to the hospital. The minister also stressed the need of coordination among the police, GHMC and health departments officials in combating the situation. Rajender said the next 10 days are crucial and urged the people not to come out their houses without any necessity. He directed the health officials to keep ambulances at the identified locations and all suspected cases should be taken to the hospitals without any delay. “Results of the samples should be released within 24 hours in the suspected cases,” he said. Meanwhile, chief secretry Somesh Kumar and municipal administration principal secretary Arvind Kumar inspected a containment zone in Humayannagar on Tuesday evening and reviewed the lockdown implementation. They have also took stock of the situation in 135 containment zones in Greater Hyderabad.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/nothing-less-than-100-lockdown-in-hotspots-mins/articleshow/75149254.cms||---
April 15, 2020||Dehradun||Uttarakhand: One more jamaat member booked under attempt to murder charges||DEHRADUN: Police have booked another member of Tablighi Jamaat on Tuesday under section 307 (attempt to murder) of Indian Penal Code (IPC) on charges of hiding his participation in the jamaat. According to police, the accused person, who hails from Jwalapur area of Haridwar, had attended a jamaat in Gujarat and returned in March. He has been booked as despite repeated appeals, he did not show up before the police and was hiding his participation in jamaat, according to Ashok Kumar, Director General (DG), law and order. “Till now, we have registered seven cases of attempt to murder against eight persons for hiding their participation in jamaat and risking the lives of others,” according to Ashok Kumar.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/one-more-jamaat-member-booked-under-attempt-to-murder-charges/articleshow/75148479.cms||---
April 15, 2020||Nagpur||In a first, no fuel without pass diktat imposed in 2 tehsils||Nagpur: In a first of its kind of bold measure aimed at curbing use of vehicles for non-essential purposes amid the lockdown, two tehsildars in the district have on Monday notified 29 fuel pump owners in their respective tehsils to stop vending petrol or diesel to private persons unless they have fuel passes issued by their offices. The orders to this effect have been issued by tehsildars Deepak Karande of Saoner and Sachin Yadav of Kalmeshwar to ensure less crowding of the streets to contain the spread of novel coronavirus (Covid-19). City-based petroleum dealers, however, heaved a sigh of relief as no such diktat has been issued in Nagpur. As per orders issued by Karande and Yadav, fuel pump owners have been permitted to supply petrol or diesel to only state/ central government employees, staffers of different government agencies after verifying I-cards and also noting down Aadhaar numbers. The tehsildars, however, have exempted health officials, LPG distributors, medicine, essential commodity traders and employees of emergency services from such restrictions. Farmers too have been excluded from the curbs as they are required to purchase fuel to operate farm equipment and tractors. In order to procure fuel, the farmers are expected to present a copy of 7/12 extract of their land. Sub-divisional magistrate (SDM) Atul Mhetre said the decision in connection with the two tehsils under him was taken following a meeting with district collector Ravindra Thakare on Sunday. “We had already sealed Saoner and Kalmeshwar tehsils which share boundaries with Kamptee after the arrival of recovered Covid-19 patients there. The restrictions on the operations of the pumps too are part of the same strategy to reduce free movement of people on the streets,” he said. “As fuel was available, several people were misusing it for violating the lockdown orders on some or the other pretexts,” said Mhetre. Karande said some people had queued up at his office for passes to buy fuel. “We would issue fuel passes only after verifying the need of the applicants,” he said. The decision, however, has left office-bearers of Vidarbha Petroleum Dealers’ Association (VPDA) fuming. “This is a bizarre situation that only two tehsils will have a certain regulation regarding fuel pumps and the rest another. Why cannot there be a uniform decision from collector or the district civil and food supply office,” said VPDA secretary Pranay Parate. VPDA president Amit Gupta too sounded exasperated as there was panic buying at fuel pumps in Saoner. “Suddenly, there was rush and police had to intervene to disperse crowd. This is what happens with knee-jerk reaction of the government machinery in such short notice,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/in-a-first-no-fuel-without-pass-diktat-imposed-in-2-tehsils/articleshow/75149313.cms||Soumitra Bose
April 15, 2020||Mangaluru||Kanglish music video inspires in battle against Covid-19||Mangaluru: India’s fight against Covid-19 got a musical edge to it with ‘namma huduga’ Guru Kiran’s Kanglish video, ‘Corona We Will Kill You’ rocking with his fans since its release on YouTube, late on Monday. Such has been its impact in this short span of time, that the celebrated music director, an alumnus of Mangalore University, has since decided to bring out a peppier video version with Corona Warriors featuring in it, later this month. The 140-second YouTube offering is the result of a suggestion by actor Tara, that Sandalwood too must do its bit in the nation’s fight against Covid-19, said Guru Kiran. Noting that he normally quarantines himself in his studio to get the creative juices flowing, Guru Kiran said the lockdown gave work from home, a whole new meaning, as he was able to bring out this video with limited resources at his disposal. “Sri, from Crazy Minds, a visual film editor, helped in this musical effort,” Guru Kiran said, adding the larger effort was to bring out a video version with bits and pieces performances from Bollywood actors. However, with this initial effort already uploaded on YouTube, Guru Kiran said the video version will be a more elaborate and better planned effort, which will also feature those on the front lines of fighting this epidemic, like doctors, police personnel and sanitary workers. With this present video underscoring the idea ‘Irona Nam Nam Maneyalli….” (let us all stay in our homes), Guru Kiran also bats for Sandalwood, urging all those devouring content on Netflix and other such streaming platforms to watch Kannada films on over- the-top (OTT) apps. His video has been lapped up across various social media platforms, including Kannada entertainment channels.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mangaluru/kanglish-music-video-inspires-in-battle-against-covid-19/articleshow/75147358.cms||Jaideep Shenoy
April 15, 2020||Ahmedabad||Stranded Japanese driven to Mumbai||Ahmedabad: Businessmen and industrialists from Japan breathed a sigh of relief on Tuesday when two buses and two private taxies departed from Ahmedabad to Mumbai. The private transport vehicles were specially arranged from Ahmedabad, led by the staff of Consul General of Japan in Mumbai, from where the businessmen will fly to Japan. Sources revealed that a special flight by All Nippon Airways has been arranged on Wednesday, which will take the Japanese passengers from Mumbai to Japan. “At least 140 Japanese nationals from different industrial clusters of Gujarat including Ahmedabad, Sanand, Mandal-Bechraji, Vapi, Vadodara and Bharuch were stranded here as their contract for deputation in Gujarat had concluded but they could not go home because of the ongoing lockdown imposed due to COVID outbreak,” said a well-placed source. These are businessmen and executives associated with several Japanese companies that have a presence in the state. Gujarat is home to at least 50 Japanese companies, wherein several Japanese nationals are employed. Similar measures were taken on Monday as well, when a special flight operated from Sardar Vallabhbhai Patel International (SVPI) airport in Ahmedabad to Heathrow airport in London. At least 240 British nationals boarded the British Airways flight, BA9113C, from the city airport which departed at 3.30pm on Monday. Two more relief flights by British Airways have also been arranged – BA0117C and BA9117C – on Wednesday and Friday respectively, to facilitate movement of British Nationals from Ahmedabad to London. The flight on Friday will be coming from Hyderabad, confirmed authorities of SVPI airport in Ahmedabad. More than 3,000 such British nationals will be moving from various Indian cities to London, confirmed a statement issued by the British High Commission in New Delhi.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/stranded-japanese-driven-to-mumbai/articleshow/75149253.cms||Niyati Parikh
April 15, 2020||Bhopal||Amid lockdown, farmers face harvesting woes||BHOPAL: As the government prepares for procurement of wheat amid the lockdown due to Coronavirus, farmers across many regions of Madhya Pradesh continue to struggle to harvest their crops. The lockdown not only leads to delay in harvesting but could also make the operations costlier. The crisis has deepened in the regions like Gwalior, Chambal, Bundelkhand, and in pockets of Jabalpur and Bhopal divisions. In Bundelkhand region, farmers complained of overcharging by harvester owners. Arvind Tiwari, a farmer, said, “For the last two days, we have been seeing overcast skies. Harvester owners have increased the hiring charges from Rs1,000 an hour as decided by the administration to Rs3,000-4,000. Even the thrashers are costlier.” He added,” If I complaint I need to have five witnesses to confirm my complaint. At the same time, this results in delay in crop cutting. The administration has failed to protect the interests of the farmers.” However, a spokesperson of the administration said, “Around 2,700 labourers who had returned from outside and had completed their quarantine period were given employment for cutting the crops. Besides, it was also ensured that the owners of the harvesters do not take advantage of the situation and charge more.” Then there are issues in harvesting as a result of non-availability of labourers. In Chambal region’s Morena, several farmers are now cutting their crops with the help of family members. Ramprasad Gurjar, a farmer, said, “Though we are farmers and experts in cultivating land, cutting crops ourselves is a new experience. I have both wheat and mustard in different fields and these are required to be harvested urgently.” But in several villages of Vindhya region, the crisis has come as a new opportunity for labourers who have gone jobless because of shutting down of number of cement factories in view of the Coronavirus crisis. “These labourers have got a new job of crop cutting in their own villages,” Laxman Tiwari, a farmer said. But the farmers in Bhopal district seem to be worst hit as number of Coronavirus cases continue to rise. Farmers have not been able to cut their crops in large number of villages around Bhopal city. On the other hand, a spokesperson of the district administration denied any problems faced by the farmers in Bhopal.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/amid-lockdown-farmers-face-harvesting-woes/articleshow/75148541.cms||---
April 15, 2020||Kolhapur||Ichalkaranji man who attended Tablighi Jamaat event in Delhi found||Kolhapur: A resident of the Jawaharnagar area of Ichalkaranji who had attended the Tablighi Jamaat event in Delhi was found by the police after days of search. The man had switched off his cellphone and was hiding in his house ever since he returned from the event. “We had launched a search operation for people who had attended the Delhi programme. We had appealed to the people to come forward for screening if they have attended the programme. On Tuesday, we received information from sources and local residents from the Jawaharnagar area about a person who had attended the programme in Delhi. We immediately rushed to his house and questioned him,” said a senior police officer. The man told police that he had attended the programme and returned to Ichalkaranji on March 23. “We did not find any Covid-19 symptoms. However, as a precautionary measure, the man has been sent to institutional quarantine. His throat swab samples have been sent for testing. His family members are also kept under home quarantine,” the officer said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolhapur/ichalkaranji-man-who-attended-tablighi-jamaat-event-in-delhi-found/articleshow/75149248.cms||---
April 15, 2020||Bareilly||Woman, an elderly man murdered in separate incidents in Shahjahanpur||Bareilly: Two murders have been reported from different locations in Shahjahanpur district on Tuesday. A 33-year-old woman was allegedly killed by her second husband in Madnapur area, while a 70-year-old man was strangled by an unidentified person in Kalaan area of the district. The first incident was reported from Madnapur, where police found Reena’s body in a mini-van on Garrah river bridge on Monday midnight. Reena’s husband Shyamsundar was trying to dump the body in the river when police came, forcing Shyamsundar to flee the spot. When police visited Reena’s house, her mother-in-law told them that her son Reena had a tiff. The mother-in-law lodged a complaint against her son for Reena’s murder. Madnapur police station SHO Dhananjay Singh said, “Shyamsundar was Reena’s second husband, and the couple had a quarrel over her daughter from the first husband. We have gathered evidence and have been waiting for the autopsy report to confirm that it was a murder. The accused is absconding, but we will arrest him soon. We have also recorded the statement of the daughter, who saw her stepfather thrashing her mother.” The second murder was reported from Kalaan, where elderly Balakram was allegedly thrashed and murdered by an unidentified person when he was sleeping on his farm on Monday night. An FIR under IPC section 302 (murder) has been registered, following a complaint lodged by his nephew Suneel Kumar. Police are searching for the accused.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/woman-an-elderly-man-murdered-in-separate-incidents-in-shahjahanpur/articleshow/75148516.cms||Kanwardeep Singh
April 15, 2020||Goa||Area-specific eco activities on cards||Panaji: The state government has decided to examine how panchayats and municipalities can be made into self-sustaining bodies by the creation and promotion of area-specific economic activities, including farming. Chief minister Pramod Sawant said that a model report of the economic strengths of each panchayat and muncipality would be submitted by May-end. Sawant told reporters that a committee, which includes college professors, panchas and others, has been constituted. “After discussion we will decide what kind of economic activities can be promoted,” he said. For example, he said, tourism-related activities can be promoted by the Calangute panchayat. “In times of disaster, some people will contribute money while some will be able to contribute their knowledge,” he said, adding that none of the social welfare schemes in the state will be cancelled. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/area-specific-eco-activities-on-cards/articleshow/75149672.cms||---
April 15, 2020||Bhopal||BJP Covid task force discuss Rabi procurement, public woes||BHOPAL: The first meeting of special task force formed by the BJP to coordinate with the state government to deal with Covid-19 crisis on Tuesday discussed problems related to farmers, citizens’ role, requirements of doctors and para-medical staff. Task force convener and BJP state president VD Sharma said that the members interacted through video conference and praised the efforts by the government. “All members of special task force discussed the role of the government and the organisation during corona pandemic in the state. The members said the central and state governments are working efficiently to deal with the crisis,” said Sharma. The task force discussed necessary facilities and arrangements for the people in view of the extension of lockdown to May 3. The members raised issues related to procurement of Rabi crops, availability of doctors for general public and problems being faced by the citizens during lockdown. “There were two main issues that I had raised at the meeting. First, to involve cooperative societies in the procurement whose audit is yet to be done. Second, role and availability of private doctors to deal with cases not related to Covid-19 like pregnancy, injury or any major ailment. I suggested to involve private doctors for treatment in rural and remote areas," former minister and senior MLA, Narottam Mishra told TOI. Other members including former minister Tulsiram Silawat, organisation general secretary Suhas Bhagat, national general secretary Kailash Vijayavargiya, former LoP Gopal Bhargava, Lok Sabha member Rakesh Singh, former ministers Rajendra Shukla, Meena Singh and Jagdish Devda also participated in the discussions.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/bjp-covid-task-force-discuss-rabi-procurement-public-woes/articleshow/75148517.cms||---
April 15, 2020||Coimbatore||Tamil Nadu: Screening of 40 cops for contagion begins||COIMBATORE: The health department has begun screening of 40 cops attached to Thudiyalur police station for Covid-19 after the 61-year-old man, who served some of them food for five days, tested positive for the virus on Monday. A police source said the elderly businessman from Kotari Nagar had a travel history to and from New Delhi, where he had gone for some personal work. While he was screened twice by the health department after he returned to the city by flight on March 23, he was tested negative for the virus on both the occasions. “Throat swab was taken from him on March 24 and he was tested negative. He remained in home quarantine for 14 days, at the end of which the sample was taken again from him on April 6. That time too he was tested negative,” the source said. The businessman then started to roam freely and visited Thudiyalur police station, seeking permission to supply food to the homeless and stranded guest workers. He also visited the district collectorate. “He also provided food to some of Thudiyalur policemen, who were on duty on Mettuplayam Road and primary health centre staff,” the source said. However, throat swab was taken from him for the third time on April 11 as he started showing Covid-19 symptoms. The test results, which came on Monday, confirmed that he was infected with the novel coronavirus. He was subsequently admitted to the ESI Hospital. On Tuesday, health department officials approached the cops, seeking their cooperation with the screening process. Inspector Balamurali Sundaram and 39 cops attached to Thudiyalur police station were taken to a primary health centre in the area for the test on Tuesday itself. “Throat swab was taken from 30 cops today (Tuesday). Samples from the remaining cops will be collected tomorrow (Wednesday),” the source said. Pointing out that they have traced the family members and friends of the 61-year-old patient, a health department official said samples would be taken from them as well for the test.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/screening-of-40-cops-for-contagion-begins/articleshow/75149255.cms||A Subburaj
April 15, 2020||Ahmedabad||Ahmedabad doctors to get PPE kits||AHMEDABAD: Since the outbreak of Covid-19 in the city and several of the areas under isolation due to high number of positive cases, several of the general practitioners had refrained from attending clinics for their own and their patients’ safety. The issue of protective gears including N95 masks and PPE kits was raised up to the level of the state health minister. Jayanti Ravi, principal secretary (health & family welfare), had also appealed to the doctors to resume their OPDs so that the cases with symptoms such as severe acute respiratory infection (SARI) and influenza-like illness (ILI) could be identified quickly and reported to the state government. Dr Mona Desai, president of Ahmedabad Medical Association (AMA), told TOI that from Wednesday, they would be distributing PPE kits to the members. “The kits are not free but it’s being provided at concessional rate so that the doctors feel safe and can resume their duty at the earliest,” she said, adding that they have asked for about 20,000 kits. The doctors had also made representation to the health department about the procedure to be followed if a patient turns out to be positive.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/city-doctors-to-get-ppe-kits/articleshow/75149264.cms||---
April 15, 2020||Ahmedabad||Ahmedabad: Administration delivers milk powder for infant||AHMEDABAD: A man from the Saijpur area of the city made a distress call to the collectorate on Tuesday, stating that he did not have money to buy milk for his seven-month-old child. District administration officials not only provided him a packet of milk powder, they also gave him with the numbers of officials who help him in the future as well. Even as the administration has been enforcing the lockdown, district collector K K Nirala asked officials to ensure that the caller got milk powder. Pejram Rathod stays with his family in Saijpur and works for a private firm. As he did not get his salary, Rathod had no money to buy milk for his seven-month-old child, Naitik. Asarwa mamlatdar Ashok Sirasiya said, “We have provided him with the things he needs and also called his employer, directing him to pay his salary immediately. "||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/administration-delivers-milk-powder-for-infant/articleshow/75149261.cms||---
April 15, 2020||Goa||Stuck in lockdown, cops reunite parents with child||Panaji: In a joint effort, Goa police along with their Karnataka counterparts reunited a Bengaluru-based Goan couple with their four-year-old child who was in the state before the 21-day lockdown announced by Prime Minister Narendra Modi. Speaking to TOI, superintendent of police Shobhit Saxena said the child had arrived in Goa to stay with his grandparents at Arpora before the lockdown. Saxena said the parents were hoping that the lockdown would end by April 14, but as there was speculation that it would be extended, the child’s parents approached Goa police for help to take him back to Bengaluru. Goa police advised the family to seek a travel permit from authorities in Karnataka to come to Goa to pick up the child, Saxena said. He also said that after obtaining the travel permit, the family approached Goa police, and with the help of an e-pass issued by the collector, the grandparents travelled to the border. Saxena said that since the grandparents are senior citizens, it was difficult to manage themselves during the time of lockdown in the state. The superintendent of police said that as the parents had to return to Bengaluru the same day, a time was fixed at the Keri border checkpost at Sattari to reunite the child with them. PI Valpoi police station Shivram Vaingankar said that the minor child and his grandparents later crossed the checkpost and proceeded to Bengaluru. The overall coordination was managed by the Goa superintendent of police and additional collector Shashank Tripathi, while the ground-level coordination at border checkpost Keri was conducted by Vaingankar, PI Ramakrishna Parab (IRB), and executive magistrate Shambhu Malvankar.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/stuck-in-lockdown-cops-reunite-parents-with-child/articleshow/75149675.cms||---
April 15, 2020||Coimbatore||‘Nilgiris well-stocked to survive lockdown’||Udhagamandalam: Nilgiris collector J Innocent Divya on Tuesday said there was no dearth of essential commodities, grocery items and medicines in the district. She said, “There is no need for the people to panic. We have adequate essential and grocery items and medicines in store to survive the extended lockdown period.” Divya had a meeting with wholesale dealers and medical distributors in the district on Monday. She said retail shops would function from 6am to 1pm and bakeries from 10am to 1pm daily. To address the issue of crowding of meat stalls during weekends, the district administration has decided to close the same at the Ooty municipal market on Saturdays and Sundays during the lockdown period. “However, they will function as usual during weekdays from 8am to 1pm. To bring down the crowd and help senior citizens, we have also introduced door delivery of meat within Ooty municipal limits during weekdays. People are requested to utilize the facility,” the collector said. She advised the senior citizens not to come out unnecessarily. “Face mask is a must when people come out. Action will be taken against the people who are not wearing them.” Pointing out that the nine Covid-19 patients from the district have been showing improvement, Divya said, “After the next test, steps will be taken to bring them to step down wards.” The number of people who are in home quarantine in the district has meanwhile come down to 232 from 1,351. “The others have completed 28 days of isolation period. We are, however, monitoring around 800 people, who had travelled to other parts of the state after obtaining e-pass,” Divya said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/nilgiris-well-stocked-to-survive-lockdown/articleshow/75149260.cms||---
April 15, 2020||Delhi||Delhi: All lockdown measures extended till May 3||NEW DELHI: As Delhi waded into the second phase of the Covid-19 lockdown, chief minister Arvind Kejriwal appealed to the people to be more conscientious in following the need to stay indoors in order to defeat the coronavirus. All the existing prohibitive measures have been extended to May 3, with the electronic passes issued for essential services to be valid till then. Kejriwal had spoken in favour of the extension in a recent video conference that Prime Minister Narendra Modi had with all the chief ministers. Welcoming the move to close down the country till May 3, Kejriwal said at a press conference that the rising number of Covid-19 cases was a cause for concern. The chief minister expressed disappointment over reports that attempts to create a divide between communities and said the nation could win the battle against the novel coronavirus only by staying united. "In the last few days, there has been a considerable increase in Covid-19 cases in Delhi. On April 9, there were only 51 new cases, but the following day, 183 new cases came up. On April 11 April, there were 166 additions, and on April 13, 356 new cases,” Kejriwal said. The CM plans to visit some of the 52 containment zones in the city to assess the situation. Kejriwal pointed out that Delhi being the country’s capital has borne a big burdened because innumerable foreigners landed in the city in the past two months. “But we know and I believe that we will overcome this, as we have done until now, despite a rise in the number of cases," he assured. He added, “Delhi’s people have consistently supported us by following the lockdown rules and bearing with the restrictions imposed on them. I believe that if we continue to strictly follow the rules for the remaining phase of the lockdown, we will be able to win the battle against the coronavirus.” The CM said he knew that the closure of the city was causing hardship and difficulties for the common people, but the lockdown was necessary. The announcement to prolong the shutdown has come as a blow to hundreds of thousands of people who earned their living on an every-day basis. All shops, except those dealing in essential supplies, have been closed. The public transport is off the roads, leaving thousands of drivers of public transport vehicles without an income. Similarly affected are a large number of people engaged in small trades. The government is going to intensify its fight against hunger by strengthening its ration distribution mechanism among non-ration card holders and distributing food among the needy. The government shelters for the homeless and many other points in the city are offering two meals a day to people to ensure no one went hungry. Many social organisations are also offering dry and cooked foods to people in distress. "We have started the process of providing Rs 5,000 as compensation to paratransit drivers,” Kejriwal said. “I have received some complaints regarding the non-functioning of the website, which is because the portal is overloaded because many people are registering on the portal at one go. I want to appeal to all the people registering on the portal to stay patient. Every one of you will be given the compensation.” He also said, “We have identified 47 containment zones (this increased to 55 after the press conference). These are areas that have three or more Covid-19 cases and have been sealed. Our Operation SHIELD has been implemented in these zones to contain the spread of the virus within or outside those areas.” Kejriwal elaborated on the measure his government was taking, among them the use of 60 hi-tech sanitising machines across Delhi, 10 of them procured from Japan. Around 14,000 corona foot warriors were also working across the length and breadth of the city to spread awareness about the virus, especially in the containment zones.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/all-lockdown-measures-extended-till-may-3/articleshow/75149270.cms||AlokKNMishra
April 15, 2020||Bhopal||Ash dyke collapse: Third body found, three still missing||BHOPAL: The body of a 27-year-old woman was found after a 72-hour search operation by rescue teams in Singrauli district on Monday night. This is the third body recovered from Harhawa region of Singrauli, after two others were recovered on Saturday. Six people were reported missing on Friday evening after fly-ash dyke at the Sasan Ultra Mega Power Project (UMPP) broke, leading to a flood of ash slurry which swept through Harhawa region. Six persons from Siddhikalan, Bhamora and Waidhan villages were reported missing after the ash dyke broke on April 10. Bodies of Dinesh Kumar, 35, and Abhishek Shah, 8, were found on Saturday. And on Monday night, the body of Chunkumari, 27, was found, district collector KVS Chaudhary confirmed. Sources said that more than 250 personnel are still deployed for rescue and search operations for searching the remaining three missing. “Search continued for the entire day on Tuesday but to no avail. We would continue with our search on Wednesday. More than 250 personnel have been deployed. We are also using drone cameras for aerial surveillance. The pool of ash spread all over has made the place swampy. One personnel was caught in it as well, but was later rescued”, Singrauli SP Tushar Kant Vidyarthi told TOI. A magisterial probe has been ordered by district administration and Madhya Pradesh Pollution Control Board is also doing environment loss assessment. Meanwhile, Reliance power management has given in written to the district administration that a compensation of Rs10 lakh would be provided to the kin of deceased adults. In the case of death of the minor, Rs5 lakh would be provided to their kin. A job would also be provided to the heir and maintenance allowance of Rs7950 as per the prevalent norms would be provided to the dependent of the deceased.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/ash-dyke-collapse-3rd-body-found-3-still-missing/articleshow/75148558.cms||---
April 15, 2020||Kolhapur||Maharashtra: Blood to be provided at concessional rate, banks have enough stock||KOLHAPUR: The blood banks from the district have decided to supply blood at concessional rates to the patients waiting for the surgeries, which were postponed due to lockdown. People wanting to donate blood could not go out due to strict regulations and it further led to blood shortage. After the appeal by the state government, hundreds of people donated the blood and now all the 12 blood banks in the district have bloodstock adequate for one month. Usually, the blood banks have stock for four to seven days. Prakash Ghungurkar, president of the blood bank association said that many surgeries have been postponed due to the shortage of blood. “People are also facing a shortage of money as they have no income. We have decided to give a concession of Rs 500 per bottle of blood to such patients. In case the lockdown extends further we will continue supply blood at concession rates for the next four months.” Usually, the blood banks charge around Rs 1400 to Rs 1500 for each bottle of blood or blood components. Huge expenses are made to separate the blood components and store the blood for a long time. The blood banks have decided to charge only the separation and storing expenses. “We are going to submit our decision to the city administration, district administration so that people get to know about it. We continue to appeal to people to donate blood even during the lockdown. We are ready to arrange the donation camps at whichever place the people suggest," said Ghungurkar. Ambedkar Jayanti celebrated Meanwhile, amid lockdown people celebrated the birth anniversary of B.R. Ambedkar. Guardian minister Satej Patil paid his homage to Ambedkar statue located at Bindu Chowk and appealed people to celebrate the anniversary staying indoors. The anniversary celebrations is a festival like and streets of the city are flooded with his followers, programmes are arranged to showcase the life and contribution of the social reformer. However, various associations through social media made people aware of the coronavirus crisis through which the entire country is going and requested them to abide by lockdown rules.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolhapur/blood-to-be-provided-at-concessional-rate-banks-have-enough-stock/articleshow/75149272.cms||---
April 15, 2020||Kolkata||Kolkata: Three flights take Japanese, Bhutanese citizens home||KOLKATA: Three planes carrying passengers from Kolkata took off on Tuesday. This was the busiest traffic that Kolkata airport has witnessed in three weeks since fights were suspended to control the spread of Covid-19. In addition, SpiceJet operated a cargo flight from Chennai to Kolkata. In the past three weeks, there have been only three passenger flights — one that repatriated Armenians, another that carried citizens of the European Union and a third that evacuated American citizens. On Tuesday, two Druk Air flights repatriated 50 Bhutan nationals, one in the morning and another in the afternoon. In the mean time, a chartered flight of a private firm was used to transport 13 Japan nationals to Bengaluru en route to Tokyo on a Japan Airlines (JAL) flight later. The 13 engineers from Japan, all working at the Tata Hitachi plant in Kharagpur, flew out in an Embraer Legacy aircraft that departed at 12.35am for Bengaluru, where other Japanese citizens joined them to board the JAL flight for Tokyo. In the Japanese capital, Indians stranded due to the ban on international and domestic flights to India rued yet another opportunity to return home. “We had approached the Indian embassy and requested that we be allowed to travel by the JAL flight. But permission was refused like it had been on earlier occasions when flights went empty from here to bring Japanese citizens back from India,” said Nagerbazar resident Anuvav Palit, who had gone to Japan on an assignment in the first week of February. He has been stranded there since then as he was unable to take a flight home before the lockdown. While Palit’s 68-year-old mother, wife and 10-month-old child continue to wait for his return, so do families of 185 other Indians stranded in Tokyo. Earlier in the day, an ATR-42 aircraft of Druk Air picked up 40 passengers, including two children, from the Kolkata airport. The flight departed for Paro at 8.45am. Later, another Durk Air-operated flight departed at 3.25pm. While other countries have been repatriating their citizens, India has not allowed Indians to return since international fights at short notice were suspended last month. Palit who is holed up in a service apartment in Shibua, Tokyo, said many Indians were depressed. Several Indians are also stranded in Gulf countries with the Indian government staying mum on their repatriation requests.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/3-flights-take-japanese-bhutanese-citizens-home/articleshow/75149277.cms||Subhro Niyogi
April 15, 2020||Vadodara||Man held for ferrying liquor||Vadodara: The crime branch has arrested a man who was ferrying liquor under the pretext of transporting cattle feed in the city on Tuesday. Four other accused involved in the case are yet to be arrested. The police said that Arvind Devipujak was nabbed from Kishanwadi when he was ferrying liquor in a tempo. He told the police that he had got liquor stock worth Rs 2.75 lakh from one Nilesh Kahar, who is yet to be arrested along with Nayendra Kahar, Krunal Kahar and Shailesh Maachi.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/man-held-for-ferrying-liquor/articleshow/75148528.cms||---
April 15, 2020||Mysuru||Private school launches online project on Covid crisis||Mysuru: In a bid to help students utilize the lockdown period properly, a private school in the city has launched an online project challenge. Called Armageddon, the project is aimed at leveraging technology to engage students of class VI-IX in contextual, meaningful and thought provoking activities during the prolonged summer vacation. According to the school authorities, the project offers students opportunities to access authentic and curated content to learn about novel coronavirus. It also enables students to collaborate with each other within the safe confines of their homes as the learning is facilitated through an online tool. "The project explores many facets of Covid-19 crisis such as epidemiology, economic, social and political impacts. It also introduces students to the skills to be used to address challenges related to the crisis. While the project has been designed for self learning, mentors will be available to guide students through the project. The output of the challenges will be evaluated by a team of experts and prizes will be awarded to the best teams,” said the authorities. This is completely an online project, delivered on ProjectMaker. Students form teams, conduct virtual meetings, use collaborative authoring tools, manage and maintain documents and together create an online portfolio. The projects are evaluated by experts based on a set of rubrics for various parameters including innovation and creativity, team work, methodology and presentation. There are eleven challenges which includes delivery of essentials, new social order, bilateral relations, contact tracing and awareness campaign design, etc. Interested students can register online on www.excelpublicschool.com. For more information stenysimon2@gmail.com or to ilavenil@gmail.com.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mysuru/private-school-launches-online-project-on-covid-crisis/articleshow/75147397.cms||---
April 15, 2020||Kolhapur||Kolhapur Inc awaits state guidelines||SLUG: RESUMING OPERATIONS Kolhapur: Members of industrial associations across the district met guardian minister Satej Patil on Monday and asked him to look into the issue of starting the operations of the factories during the lockdown. The members also promised the minister to follow all the precautionary measures. They also informed that it will take around four to five days only to clean the factories and restart the machines after the work stopped around three weeks ago. The delegation, however, was asked by the minister to wait for the guidelines from the state government that is expected to be released on Wednesday. Sanjay Shete, president of Kolhapur Chamber of Commerce and Industries (KCCI), said, "Some of the industrialists demanded opening of their factories. They are assuring that measures like disinfection, sanitisation and social distancing will be adopted. Many industrialists have stopped their manufacturing mid-way and they want the existing orders to be completed and dispatched at the earliest." He added, "The industrialists claimed that it has become difficult to pay the workers since the orders could not be dispatched. The industries while reopening will face shortage of manpower as many migrant workers have returned to native places and they are ready to resume the operations with the available staff." The state government has assured the industrialists that a plan will be worked out to allow factories to function in a phased manner, especially in districts where no Covid-19 case has been reported or the number of new cases have stopped. The district has so far reported six Covid-19 positive cases and no new case has emerged from the hotspots so far. It is likely that the government will allow the agro-processing factories to reopen. Such factories too are in significant number across the district. "We have been asked to submit details about the different kinds of industries present in the district. We are hopeful that some of them will be allowed to resume operations so that the sector reeling under the unprecedented crisis will come out of stress at the earliest," Shete said. The big industrial groups are ready to make transportation available for the workers if the ban on public transport continues. There are however only 10% of such industries in the district and most of them are medium and small scale industries. Shete said if the industries do not open in April then the workers will get only 30% of their salaries. "We have also sought release of funds from the insurance corpus, the tax paid to the government for paying the salaries of the workers," he said. Meanwhile, Patil said that the state government is busy preparing the guidelines. "Once the guidelines about which industry should be allowed to resume operations, we will hold another meeting with the industry representatives," he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolhapur/kolhapur-inc-awaits-state-guidelines/articleshow/75149279.cms||---
April 15, 2020||Kolhapur||Vegetable sellers slapped with Rs 100 for not wearing masks in Kolhapur||KOLHAPUR: The Kolhapur Municipal Corporation (KMC) has slapped fine of Rs 100 on more than 80 vegetable vendors in the city for not using hand gloves and masks despite being told to do so. According to the rules set by civic chief Mallinath Kalshetti, the offenders will be fined Rs 100 for first violation while the second violation may cause cancellation of their vending license and prohibit them from vending at any place in the city thereafter. “The decision was taken a few days ago and its implementation has started now which means they (vegetable vendors) had ample of time to buy hand gloves and face masks. Everyone has to ensure that they are protected from Covid-19 infection. We not only have to protect ourselves from contracting the infection, but also other people. For small vendors, Rs 100 is a huge fine. But, in the end, money is not important than life,” Kalshetti said. “We have repeatedly told the vendors that covering their mouth and nose with handkerchief or using homemade masks will also work,” he added. He said that masks and gloves have been made mandatory for everyone, including retail shop operators and their staff. “The state government has made it mandatory for citizens to wear masks in public places.We will now focus on taking the citizens to task for violating social distancing rules in markets, retail shops, banks and medical shops. Our officials will make surprise visits to public places and will be penalise those violating social distancing rules,” added Kalshetti.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolhapur/vegetable-sellers-slapped-with-rs-100-for-not-wearing-masks/articleshow/75149284.cms||---
April 15, 2020||Coimbatore||Dist administration takes steps to avoid shortfall in supplies||Coimbatore: With the lockdown being extended till May 3, the district administration is bracing up to ensure essential commodities don’t run out of supply during the prolonged period. Authorities are putting in place logistics to ensure seamless supply. Officials say they are also working in close coordination with the horticulture department to fill the gap between farmers and consumers.Collector K Rajamani said the Coimbatore municipal will ensure hassle-free movement of vegetables and other essential needs in the city. “To supply vegetables, mobile vegetable vending vehicles were arranged with the help of horticulture department by the corporation. People can buy vegetables at Uzhavar Sandhais. The officials won’t stop the vehicles carrying essential commodities. We are ensuring that people would get all the essential needs. If people are not getting any provisions, they can bring the issue to the notice of the revenue officials. The issue would be sorted out soon,” Rajamani said.He said the city has nine containment areas, including RS Puram, Kuniyamuthur, KK Pudur, Cheran Maa Nagar and Karumbukadai. Annur, Pollachi South, Pollachi North, Kinathukadavu, Madukkarai and Mettupalayam taluks also come under containment areas and they are completely sealed. So, people cannot come out of their streets. “People have to wait at the borders of the sealed areas to buy provisions and medicines every day from 6am to 1pm. During emergency, they can contact the revenue, health department officials and police,” Rajamani said.He said already 700 staff members had conducted door-to-door survey in containment areas. “So far, more than 1,000 swab samples have been taken from the secondary contacts. We are intensifying the sample collection and we would collect at least 1,000 more samples from the secondary contacts. Now, we are conducting Covid-19 tests at the Coimbatore Medical College and Hospital (CMCH) and ESI hospital. A private lab in the city has assured that it can test 200 samples daily,” he added.More than 90% of ration cardholders bought rice, wheat, sugar, dal, palm oil from PDS shops. “We instructed the officials to ensure to keep enough stock at PDS shops. People can buy the ration rice and other items for the month of May from Wednesday,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/dist-administration-takes-steps-to-avoid-shortfall-in-supplies/articleshow/75149293.cms||---
April 15, 2020||Goa||Goa: Border checkposts may soon have sanitiser tunnels||PANAJI: The government has decided to install sanitiser tunnels at eight different checkposts across the state as a precautionary measure to curb the spread of Covid-19. Chief minister Pramod Sawant said the sanitiser tunnels will be installed on Wednesday following approval from the health department. “Drivers of vehicles carrying essential commodities will have to walk through the sanitiser tunnel before entering the state,” Sawant said. The chief minister further said that he has asked the authorities to monitor entry and exit of vehicles carrying essential goods. “If a vehicle enters the state on a particular day, it has to exit on same day,” Sawant said. The state government is also contemplating the possibility of setting up of a Covid-19 rapid testing facility at the state’s borders to ensure that no person carrying the virus crosses over into Goa. “We are examining whether we should conduct Covid-19 tests at the border. We are not allowing anyone to enter the state, but we want to check the drivers of vehicles carrying essential commodities,” Sawant had said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/border-checkposts-may-soon-have-sanitiser-tunnels/articleshow/75149681.cms||---
April 15, 2020||Vijayawada||Realty sector under stress, prepares for hurdles ahead||Vijayawada: More than 4,000 real estate projects in big cities and towns in Andhra Pradesh have come to a standstill due to the Covid-19 lockdown. Experts of the realty market are of the opinion that the sector may face some challenges over the next few months. They feel that investment from NRIs (non-resident Indians) may help the sector out of the crisis, especially in bigger cities such as Vizag, Vijayawada, Guntur and Tirupati. Prices of real estate may go down in some areas once the lockdown is lifted. The real estate sector has been under pressure for quite some time now owing to a shortage of sand and other issues. The situation had just begun to improve when the coronavirus brought all projects to a complete standstill. Speaking to TOI, K Subba Raju, chairman of Credai-Andhra Pradesh said that the real estate industry is the second largest contributor to GDP and creates a lot of employment. He said that nearly 4,000 projects worth crores have got stuck due to the lockdown. “We think the post-lockdown scenario will be challenging for the real estate sector for at least a few months. We hope that the situation improves. There are indications that some NRIs could return to AP and purchase property,” he said. According to a section of builders, the post-Covid-19 period would see an insecure job market with revenue sources drying up and people’s purchasing power declining. As a result, they say, many may post plans. B Ramachandra Rao, a builder said, “If the lockdown were to extend even after May 3, we’ll see salary reductions and job cuts in most sectors. Banks will exercise caution while giving out loans. The real estate and allied sectors will have to face many challenges.” However, realty prices in cities like Vizag may not come down, according to B Srinivasa Rao, president of Credai-Vizag because of increasing construction costs. The proposed shifting of the secretariat from Amaravati to Vizag has affected an increase in prices of apartments and land plots in Vizag. The prices have gone up by Rs 500 to Rs 700 per square feet. While the prices may come down a little, builders might still find it difficult to sell after the lockdown.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/realty-sector-under-stress-prepares-for-hurdles-ahead/articleshow/75147402.cms||Nalla.Babu
April 15, 2020||Bhopal||Kamal Nath, Digvijaya Singh greet people on Ambedkar Jayanti||BHOPAL: On the 129th birth anniversary of Dr Bhimrao Ambedkar amid the ongoing Coronavirus lockdown, Congress leaders Kamal Nath and Digvijaya Singh greeted the people of Madhya Pradesh on Tuesday. Former chief minister Kamal Nath in a video message said, “We are proud that Dr B R Ambedkar was born in our state. I wanted to visit his birthplace in Mhow and garland his statue. But today, I am observing Ambedkar’s birth anniversary in my home. Let us take a pledge to work for the Dalits and deprived communities and walk on Babasaheb’s path.” Senior Congress leader Digvijaya Singh said that it is the good fortune of the state that Dr Ambedkar was born here in Mhow. “Dr B R Ambedkar awoke a sleeping society, he brought forward a community that was facing injustice for thousands of years. When this country was getting its Independence, he was given the task of framing the Constitution because there was no one in the country who could have framed the Indian Constitution better,”Digvijaya said in video message. The Congress veteran invited people to work with dedication to realise the dreams of Dr Ambedkar. He also added, “Today, our fight is against the ideology of BJP and to protect the Constitution framed by Dr Ambedkar.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/nath-digvijaya-greet-people-on-ambedkar-jayanti/articleshow/75148568.cms||---
April 15, 2020||Delhi||Delhi: 6 new zones on red alert, total 55||NEW DELHI: The Covid-19 red zones expanded to six more areas in the capital on Tuesday, taking the total number of containment zones to 55. In the past seven days, the number has gone up rapidly with Delhi government marking any area reporting three or more positive cases as the red zone. Just a week ago, the count stood at just eight. Except for North West district, Delhi’s 10 other districts now have containment zones, with South East having the highest at 13. North East district got its first containment zone on Tuesday. The new zones are Bara Hindu Rao area and Nawab Ganj in Central district; house no. 62, Gali no. 4 under B block in Shastri Nagar in North East district; Gali nos. 1, 2 & 3, Block D, Sangam Vihar in South East district; entire gali starting from house nos. G-54 to F-107 and entire gali from house nos. CN-854 to 137 in Chhuriya Mohalla in Tughlaqabad village, South district; 1100 Wali Gali, 1200 Wali Gali and 1300 Wali Gali under H-3 block in North district’s Jahangirpuri. Late on Monday night, shop no. J-4/49 at Khirki Extension, and Jain Mohalla and Pandit Mohalla in Chirag Delhi were declared as red zones. While no containment zone has been created in North West district, the local authorities are holding review meetings every day. With 51 new cases in the past 24 hours, Delhi now has 1,561 Covid-19 cases. All containment zones have been completely sealed and the areas around them have been declared as orange or buffer zones to undertake extensive virus containment exercises. All entry and exit points to these areas have been barricaded and police personnel deployed to prevent any unauthorised movement. Special arrangements have been made to provide essential services in these areas. The sensitive areas are being marked as red zones to keep these areas under strict observation and monitoring to stall the spread of the novel coronavirus infection, while the buffer zones have been created to strengthen the drive. An extensive screening drive has been launched to detect all Covid-19 suspects. An elaborate sanitisation exercise is also being carried out by the urban local bodies inside the red zones. A drive to trace people who came in contact with the Covid-19 patients is also going on in both zones and all of them will be screened and tested, said an official.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/6-new-zones-on-red-alert-total-55/articleshow/75149322.cms||AlokKNMishra
April 15, 2020||Goa||Five treated patients kept at Candolim resort||Panaji: Five persons who are suspected to have Covid-19 symptoms have been admitted in the isolation ward at Goa, stated a medical bulletin issued by the directorate of health services on Tuesday. The bulletin stated that 47 test reports have returned negative for Covid-19, while four reports were awaited. Goa has two active cases, while five persons have been successfully treated for coronavirus and were placed under quarantine at a resort in Candolim. No fresh cases were reported on Tuesday. The bulletin stated that 24 travellers have been quarantined for 28 days as per the list released by the central government. GMC dean Dr S M Bandekar said the system has been put in place in the premier hospital to fight the Covid-19 pandemic. The virology laboratory has been functioning well and even junior doctors have been trained to take swab samples, he said. Dr Dilip Hinge of the National Institute of virology (NIV), Pune has been deputed to train technicians and doctors. He will remain posted in GMC till April 21.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/five-treated-patients-kept-at-candolim-resort/articleshow/75149306.cms||---
April 15, 2020||Nagpur||Lockdown benefit: Country breathing cleaner air||Nagpur: While various states have announced extending the lockdown till April 30, the bright side of it is that citizens will be breathing much cleaner air. Latest analysis done by environment organization Climate Trends reveals that many cities in the country saw an improvement in air quality during the lockdown. The analysis of air pollution levels shows that out of 101 cities, 35 recorded ‘good’ air quality on the fourth day of nationwide curfew. The analysis claimed these levels were unprecedented and have not been since the Air Quality Index (AQI) was launched in 2014. Moreover, New Delhi recorded its best ever AQI of 45 on March 26 which was the first ‘good’ air quality day in the capital since August 18 last year and only the third in more than three years. Analysis of System of Air Quality and Weather Forecasting and Research (SAFAR) data brought to the fore that the near-complete stoppage of daily traffic has led to drastic fall in the levels of particulate matter (PM) 2.5. The pollutant’s levels dropped by 62% in Delhi, 45% in Mumbai, 31% in Pune and 57% in Ahmedabad post April 6. However, the biggest impact has been on the levels nitrogen dioxide which is formed from the burning of coal and vehicular emissions. The high presence of pollutant can increase the risk of respiratory ailments. “In Pune, NOx pollution has reduced by 62% in the week starting April 6, in Mumbai by 60%, in Delhi by 50% and in Ahmedabad by 32%,” the analysis stated. It further highlighted that in 38 monitoring stations in Delhi, NOx levels dropped drastically, except in Jehangirpuri which recorded highest NOx levels in the capital at an avg of 77.63 on the third day of the lockdown, indicating the pollutant’s other sources apart from vehicles. It’s not just the cities that are breathing easy but also industrial clusters in Gujarat like Vapi, Ankaleshwar and Vatva have also reported cleaner air during the lockdown. Vapi, ranked as the most polluted industrial cluster on the Central Pollution Control Board’s (CPCB) Comprehensive Environmental Pollution Index (CEPI), recorded a 79.7% drop in sulphur dioxide (SO2) levels, one of the key emissions from coal-fired thermal power plants. “The air quality index in Vapi dropped to 100 from 313 on March 19,” the analysis added. Stating that a nationwide lockdown should not be needed to achieve improved air quality, the analysis suggested some mitigation measures for policy-makers. “Monitoring data proves that shut down of local sources from activities like transport, construction and industries have reduced PM2.5, PM10 and NOx levels, but background pollution levels remain even amidst the complete halt to the economy. The existing way of producing energy and economic activity have to transform towards sustainable and clean energy systems if India is to experience clean air in future,” it stated. Further adding that Indian power grid system has been grossly underestimated, the analysis stated, “With the nine minutes of solidarity event of April 9, it is clear the grid system is flexible enough to handle a greater percentage of variable solar and wind energy. Efforts need to be made to implement learnings from this event.” It added that vehicles on the road need to be zero emission vehicles for them to “stop being a health hazard”.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/lockdown-benefit-country-breathing-cleaner-air/articleshow/75161666.cms||Manka Behl
April 15, 2020||Visakhapatnam||Train coaches turn quarantine facilities as Covid cases spike||Vijayawada: As the number of Covid cases continue to rise in the state, the Railways has joined the battle against Covid-19. While the Vijayawada railway division has set up nine quarantine centres with a total of 160-bed capacity across its jurisdiction, 100 sleeper coaches were converted into quarantine facilities at Tirupati railway station. The quarantine centres in the Vijayawada railway division has been set up across Vijayawada, Rajahmundry, Gudur, Bitragunta, Bhimavaram, Tenali, Eluru and Kakinada. All of them are being disinfected regularly. Besides, taking Kerala as a precedent, officials explained that they have begun collecting swab samples from its 18,000-staff to detect Covid-19 cases. Railway Hospital in the city has come up with a unique way of collecting the throat swab samples from suspected patients. The window in the ENT clinic has been fitted with two gloves. The doctor behind the pane can put his hand inside the glove and collect the swab, thus staying protected. Speaking on the occasion, assistant chief medical superintendent of railway hospital Naseer Hussain said employees with health issues, fever and recent history of foreign visits are being regularly monitored on a daily basis.  “Isolation wards and quarantine facilities are being strictly monitored and frequent disinfection is being carried out to curtail the spread”, he said. Meanwhile, in Tirupati nearly 100 sleeper coaches have been converted into quarantine facilities. “Each coach can accommodate nine patients and has sufficient beds and other necessary medical infrastructure to treat Covid-19 patients/suspects. In each coach, middle berths were removed and all the windows were covered with mosquito nets, while the entrance of each cabin was covered with two half plastic curtains”, Tirupati railway station director Nagaramana Sarma said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/visakhapatnam/train-coaches-turn-quarantine-facilities-as-covid-cases-spike/articleshow/75147430.cms||Ujwal Bommakanti
April 15, 2020||Coimbatore||MSMEs sound alarm bells||Coimbatore: With the nationwide lockdown extended till May 3, micro, small and medium enterprises (MSMEs) in the district are faced with an uncertainty not seen in the past. With no income, industrialists have said it would be a huge burden to pay their guest workers for two more weeks of no-work period. Most MSMEs are providing food and other essentials for their guest workers, who in many places are turning anxious to reach their homes. Other immediate concerns for MSMEs are orders and machinery. With no update from clients on existing orders, industry representatives said they were apprehensive that the existing orders might get cancelled. As for machines, even during the lockdown, industrialists have been visiting their units at least once in two days to run their automated machines to keep them in order. On the status of existing orders, P Nallathambi, president of Coimbatore Sidco Industrial Estate Manufacturers Welfare Association (Cosiema), said “The actual status would be known only when factories resume and start working on existing orders.”  Amid the ongoing crisis in the MSME sector, industrialists said they were looking up to the Centre for relief measures in the form of working capital credits and loan moratoriums. J James, district president of Tamil Nadu Association of Cottage and Tiny Enterprises (TACT), said they have been seeking relief for the past three weeks . “In the last three years, MSMEs are reeling under stress due to GST and economic slowdown. Covid-19 has served a bigger blow. There has to be relief measures such as loans with reduced interest rates and one year moratorium to pay it back. We also seek a waiver of power charges for three months and return of penalty we had paid for late-payment of GST,” he said. Codissia president R Ramamurthy sought a one-year moratorium for all bank loans. He requested that the RBI direct all banks “to extend ad-hoc additional credit to the extent of 25% on existing working capital limits.” He requested the Centre to pay wages for their workers during the lockdown period, as it was not viable for MSMEs to pay an entire month’s salary without running their business. “We have the will to pay our workers, but we don’t have the money.” ends||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/msmes-sound-alarm-bells/articleshow/75149301.cms||---
April 15, 2020||Mangaluru||Online classes: Educationist fears students misusing screen time||MANGALURU: Educationist CK Manjunath supported by a section of PU college principals from Dakshina Kannada district has written to Prime Minister Narendra Modi stating that students must not be forced to participate in online classes during the lockdown period. This comes in the wake of reports that Singapore has suspended the use of video-conferencing tool Zoom by teachers, after obscene images reportedly appeared on screens. Manjunath told TOI, “While one section of the lecturers is for online classes, there is another section that is against it mainly because we fear misuse of mobile phones by students. Most colleges follow the rule of not encouraging mobiles in the campus especially for PU students and by encouraging online classes, we are contradicting the rule. This could result in students spending maximum screen time hooked to the mobile in the name of online classes,” he said. He suggested that the lockdown time must be used to increase productivity. “We have students from the Tungabhadra belt who have returned to farming following the lockdown and we are encouraging others to take up similar activities. There are reports that 37% of the agricultural lands are wasted. Food scarcity is bound to rise. Youngsters who have the land must use this time to get back to the agricultural sector and make use of the government schemes. In cities, people can opt for terrace gardening and those who are good at visual or performing arts, should work on it rather than concentrate purely on academic activities. Students must use opportunities provided under Skill India and Startup India,” he said. Reschedule academic calendar 2020-21A section of PU principals are in favour of starting the next academic calendar in September instead of June. This would enable completion of class 10 exams and pending class 12 exams, entrance / competitive exams in an appropriate manner. There could be a reduction in the number of holidays and syllabus for the next academic year.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mangaluru/online-classes-educationist-fears-students-misusing-screen-time/articleshow/75147437.cms||Deepthi Sanjiv
April 15, 2020||Goa||Ensure movement of cargo trucks, states told||Panaji: With reports of trucks carrying essential and non-essential goods being detained at state borders, the Union home ministry, in a letter to all states, has issued instructions that there should be no hindrance for movement of cargo trucks and workers. The Centre warned states that guidelines issued on March 24, about the implementation of lockdown measures, should be implemented in letter and spirit. It said that reports have regularly emerged of trucks carrying essentials and non-essentials being detained at borders and of workers required for manufacturing of such goods not bring given authorisation passes for their movement. In a letter to chief secretaries of all states, home secretary Ajay Bhalla said that instances of trucks not being allowed to move freely could create a shortage of essential goods during the ongoing nationwide lockdown. “Inter-state and intra-state movement of all trucks and other goods or carrier vehicles with one driver and one additional person is allowed, as long as the driver is carrying a valid driving license. No further permit or approval would be required,” Bhalla said. Among other instructions, MSMEs engaged in manufacturing of essential items like wheat flour, pulses and edible oils should be allowed to function freely, Bhalla said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/ensure-movement-of-cargo-trucks-states-told/articleshow/75149311.cms||---
April 15, 2020||Mumbai||Mumbai corona victim’s dog spends 2 weeks in isolation||MUMBAI: A dog was placed in an isolation kennel for 15 days after its caretaker died of Covid-19. The Pomeranian, pet to a family in Deonar, was taken to a veterinary hospital where it was examined for those two weeks to watch for symptoms. Tuffy, a 3-year-old male, was found to be hale and hearty, and released back to his family home. The pet’s caretaker, a 65-year-old woman, passed away last month after contracting the coronavirus. Seven of her relatives who lived in the same house in a chawl, were taken to a hospital for isolation as a precaution, said Krishna Shenoy, manager of In Defence Of Animals (IDA), an animal welfare trust having its veterinary facility at Deonar. “Left to fend for itself in the locked house, the dog seemed stressed,” he said. “We got a call from the BMC on March 26, asking us to rescue the dog.” In the presence of police and fire brigade personnel, dog rescuers from IDA entered the house. “The dog was barking anxiously. Our staff pacified him and put him in an ambulance,” said Shenoy. When the dog was first taken to the hospital in Deonar, it was a bit aggressive. It was kept in isolation in a standalone kennel, about 10ft by 12ft in size, said Sudnya Patkar, founder trustee of IDA. The basic rules of isolation for a dog are similar to those for humans. So, the Pom was observed for any symptoms. Its temperature was checked daily over two weeks. Its respiration was examined with a stethoscope. This means the dog’s breathing rate per minute was tested. Also, its pulse rate was assessed, said Dr Makarand Chavan, a trustee of IDA. “The dog had no respiratory distress or respiratory infection. It was not sneezing, had no cough or nasal discharge. So, the dog was perfectly normal,” said Dr Chavan who has his clinic in Dadar. Now, the dog is back home, a member of the family from Deonar told TOI. “Our pet is eating well and back to his routine now. He’s perfectly fine.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/caretaker-dead-pet-sent-to-isolation-kennel/articleshow/75149695.cms||Alex Fernandes
April 15, 2020||Vijayawada||Rice and chana dal in ration from tomorrow||Vijayawada: The second-phase of ration distribution will start across the district from Thursday. The civil supplies department is making arrangements to supply ration door-to-door in selected zones in Vijaywada city on an experimental basis. As per the decision of the government, Bengal gram (Chana) and rice will be given to ration card holders free of cost. Officials have identified 155 fair price shops in the city for the door delivery. Ward volunteers and secretaries will go door to door along with the ration dealer to supply ration to the beneficiaries. Officials will implement a token system in the remaining 63 ration shops in the district. Volunteers will go door to door and issue token to the beneficiaries prescribing the time and date of supply of ration. Cardholders can collect the ration without waiting in long queues during the time slot printed on the tokens. Chief minister YS Jaganmohan Reddy, on Tuesday, conducted a review meeting with district collectors and civil supplies authorities on the second phase of ration supply. He directed officials to take all measures required to prevent crowd at ration shops.He also said that masks should be distributed to everyone. Civil supplies minister Kodali Sri Venkateswara Rao (Nani) explained to the CM about the ration door delivery and a few other proposed initiatives.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/rice-and-chana-dal-in-ration-from-tomorrow/articleshow/75147441.cms||Venu Lanka
April 15, 2020||Coimbatore||More time for health dept to be active, industries to stay inactive||Coimbatore: The medical community in the district, especially the public health department, heaved a sigh of relief after Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Tuesday announced that the lockdown would be extended till May 3. They said the extension would give them an opportunity to flatten the curve in the district, which has seen a spike in Covid-19 cases in the last 10 days. This would also prevent further surge in cases, which would have been inevitable had the lockdown been lifted on Tuesday evening. The public health department in the district say the extension for three weeks would help contain the spread of the infection more effectively. “We think the extension will help us contain the spread more effectively. We have so far managed to trace all primary positive cases and even their secondary contacts who they infected. Now, we are in the process of tracing, testing and isolating the secondary positive patients’ contacts,” deputy director of public health Dr G Ramesh Kumar said. “Now, people who did meet second positives, even if asymptomatic, will not infect others outside their home because they will be forced to remain indoors for their incubation period of 21 days,” he added. Dr Ramesh Kumar said tracing of all primary cases and confining the spread of the infection was made possible only because the lockdown was in place. “Except one or two, we were able to identify the source of infection in all cases. Symptomatic or people who have had direct contact with positive patients are also coming forward to us, which is further reducing the spread,” he said. Private doctors handling Covid-19 cases say this lockdown extension will help handle positive patients better and reduce spread. “Covid-19 is more contagious and dangerous than other viruses like H1N1, because it’s a new virus, spreads much faster and has no vaccine,” Dr Jayawardana, pediatrician at PSG Hospitals, said. “Without a lockdown in place, our numbers may shoot up like in Europe or the US,” he said. There are adequate PCR testing kits, beds and ventilators to handle the crisis, according to the health department. “We don’t see the possibility of an unmanageable surge. We have adequate infrastructure to handle a surge if it occurs. But this lockdown extension has put off fears of an immediate surge,” the deputy director said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/more-time-for-health-dept-to-be-active-industries-to-stay-inactive/articleshow/75149326.cms||---
April 15, 2020||Visakhapatnam||Hotels struggle with record low occupancies||Visakhapatnam: The hospitality sector in the city is staring at mounting losses as hotels and guest houses remain shut during the lockdown. With a workforce of around one lakh confined at home and hotel managements unable to repay bank loans, several hotels have decided to streamline their employee strength even after the lockdown ends. The city, which is a preferred destination of travellers and for hosting meetings and seminars, has a well-developed hospitality industry that generates employment. Following the lockdown, however, “people would not travel like earlier. Aircraft occupancy would also come down after the lockdown period as all kinds of travel will come down. It would have an effect on the hospitality sector,” vice-president of Vizag Development Council, O Naresh Kumar told TOI. Naresh Kumar added that industrialists and companies would cut travel plans and opt for video conferences while budget travelers would either not travel or shorten the duration of their trips. “Business-related, tourism-related trips would take a back seat. Companies would go for cost cutting. A 50 per cent cut in essential travel and 75 per cent in overall travel may take place. Pilgrims’ travel would also come down drastically as senior citizens would not travel even after lockdown,” said K Vijayamohan from Tours and Travel Operators Association of Andhra Pradesh. Senior general manager at Daspalla Hotel Prasanth told TOI that people may not be keen to spend as before with all sectors hit by the lockdown. “Earlier the occupancy rate of hotels was around 60 per cent to 80 per cent. Now, it will depend on essential travel, which will also be very low in percentage,” he said. Around 1,500 hotels and guest houses have already incurred losses and the managements of these hotels may reduce the strength of their workforce to cut expenditure||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/visakhapatnam/hotels-struggle-with-record-low-occupancies/articleshow/75147561.cms||Siva G
April 15, 2020||Mumbai||Migrants mass near Bandra station to go home, hundreds of FIRs filed||MUMBAI: Barely hours after PM Modi extended the lockdown till May 3, protests broke out in Bandra (West) and the distant eastern suburb of Mumbra on Tuesday as migrants spilled out on the roads in large numbers demanding they be sent back home. In Bandra, a large police contingent arrived and later carried out a lathi-charge to disperse the mob. A senior government official told TOI that it was intelligence failure on part of the police, which did not anticipate the simmering tension and frustration. However, Mumbai police commissioner Parambir Singh said, “People started gathering at the station following a news item on a Marathi channel. If there is substance to the allegation, we will take legal action against the channel.” NCP spokesperson and minister Nawab Malik, too, said it appeared that the Marathi channel had flashed news that trains would start from each railway division.It is believed to have been based on a letter written by a South Central Railway official on April 13 on a proposal for Jansadharan special trains. Meanwhile, at the time of going to press, Azad Maidan police were in the process of registering an FIR for spreading rumours against one Vinay Dubey for allegedly instigating migrants on his Facebook page to gather near railway stations to take trains.He was detained by Navi Mumbai police on Tuesday night and handed over to Mumbai police. The protest in Bandra started at 3.45pm as groups of people started emerging from the slums around the railway station. Within minutes, the crowd grew to a few thousand protesters, mainly migrant labourers from West Bengal, Uttar Pradesh and Bihar. Their main grouse was they have no work and no money to pay rent to the slumlords. The police immediately transmitted wireless messages to their senior officers after the western suburbs control room noticed a mob gathering on CCTVs. The crowd came out in huge numbers from the Maharashtra Nagar slum near Bada Masjid and gathered outside the Bandra railway station by 4pm. The police claimed more than 1,500 people turned up within 10 minutes in order to leave the city after rumours spread that outstation trains would restart. Senior police officials tried to convince the crowd for almost 90 minutes and even supplied them with food packets. On Tuesday night, deputy commissioner of police (Zone IX) Abhishek Trimukhe said an offence has been registered at Bandra police station under Indian Penal Code sections, including those for unlawful assembly and rioting, against 800 to 1,000 unknown accused. He further said an FIR will be registered at Azad Maidan police station against those who spread rumours that the trains would restart. Joint commissioner of police (law and order) Vinay Choubey denied it was intelligence failure. “We are going through the CCTV footage. The mobs that gathered came from the surrounding locations in Bandra East and West, and we will find out if they had planned the protest,” he told TOI. A police officer who was part of the crowd control team said it could have led to a riot. “A few thousand migrants from slum pockets in Bandra (East) too started to come out to join the crowd at Bandra (West). Police officials from Nirmal Nagar were alerted in time and they lathi-charged them to disperse the crowd. Mumbai police spokesperson DCP Pranaya Ashok said senior officers told the mob their demands would be placed before the government. But it got aggressive,” he said. Although the mob in Bandra (West) was dispersed by 5.45pm, a police team was at the spot till late on Tuesday, patrolling the locality. Former local corporator Rehbar Khan (currently his wife is corporator from the area) said, “It was an unorganized and leaderless crowd. We asked them to form small groups to discuss their issues. The police, too, requested the maulana of the adjoining mosque to send out an appeal to calm the crowd, but in vain.” To pacify them, the police called foodgrain trucks with the help of BMC officials and NGOs. Some people queued to collect the food packets but other groups objected to this distribution and shouted they would not leave till an assurance was given to them that they would be allowed to return to their home states. When the crowd started jostling to collect food items, the situation slipped out of control and police had to resort to a lathi-charge. A civic official said food packets were being distributed through an NGO in these areas daily. “The demand, though, is much more than what we can supply,” he said. Meanwhile, a Western Railway spokesperson said on Tuesday evening that all passenger train services on Indian Railways, including premium, mail, express, passenger and suburban (local) services will not run till May 3, in accordance with guidelines of the Government of India. Merely goods and parcel trains will continue to run. Meanwhile, in Mumbra, around 250-300 immigrants gathered at Rashid Compound, demanding they be sent back to their homes in the northern states as they have been deprived of food and other essentials. Mumbra police senior inspector Khanya Thorat held discussions with them and convinced them to return, which they did after a couple of hours. (With inputs by Nishikant Karlikar)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/migrants-mass-near-bandra-stn-to-go-home-hundreds-of-firs-filed/articleshow/75149716.cms||Vijay V Singh
April 15, 2020||Vijayawada||Excise staff face action for dereliction of duties||Vijayawada: The state excise department on Tuesday took action against two officials for alleged dereliction of duty at Narasaraopet in Guntur district. According to the excise department, the officers were identified as assistant excise superintendent Madhu Babu and S Karna, a circle inspector. The excise commissioner transferred Madhu Babu and asked him to report at the excise headquarters in Vijayawada. On the other hand, Karna received a charge memo from his senior officials for ignoring the thefts taking place at government-owned liquor stores. Previously, an excise department constable was suspended for his alleged involvement in the theft of liquor bottles from a government liquor shop at Narasaraopet. The government also removed liquor shop supervisor and watchman for their involvement in the theft. Around Rs 4.90 lakh worth of liquor bottles were stolen from the shop. Prior to that, other erring excise officials were suspended for illegally selling liquor at exorbitant price in East Godavari district. On March 30, excise department circle inspector Reddi Trinath was suspended from service on charges of looting liquor from a government liquor outlet at Pedaparthi point under Rajamahendravaram excise division.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/excise-staff-face-action-for-dereliction-of-duties/articleshow/75147468.cms||---
April 15, 2020||Goa||5 persons cured of Covid-19 now at Candolim resort||Panaji: Five persons who are suspected to have Covid-19 symptoms have been admitted in the isolation ward at Goa, stated a medical bulletin issued by the directorate of health services on Tuesday. The bulletin stated that 47 test reports have returned negative for Covid-19, while four reports were awaited. Goa has two active cases, while five persons have been successfully treated for coronavirus and were placed under quarantine at a resort in Candolim. No fresh cases were reported on Tuesday. The bulletin stated that 24 travellers have been quarantined for 28 days as per the list released by the central government. GMC dean Dr S M Bandekar said the system has been put in place in the premier hospital to fight the Covid-19 pandemic. The virology laboratory has been functioning well and even junior doctors have been trained to take swab samples, he said. Dr Dilip Hinge of the National Institute of virology (NIV), Pune has been deputed to train technicians and doctors. He will remain posted in GMC till April 21.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/5-persons-cured-of-covid-19-now-at-candolim-resort/articleshow/75149320.cms||---
April 15, 2020||Goa||Health min for making masks compulsory||Panaji: Following Singapore’s approach to curb the spread of Covid-19, health minister Vishwajit Rane has proposed to make wearing of masks mandatory in public spaces. The health minister moved a note to chief minister Pramod Sawant in this regard two days ago. “We need to follow the Singapore model and make masks compulsory in public places. I have also spoken with the chief minister about this,” Rane told TOI on Tuesday. Rane said while Goa is procuring the required quantity of masks for medical staff, there are many self-help groups (SHG) that have started making handmade masks. People can use those masks, he said. Terming the pandemic a “serious issue” as the country has already crossed 10,000 cases and there is no vaccine available for Covid-19, Rane cautioned people to take care and not neglect standard operating procedures (SOPs). “We can’t afford to take things lightly. The PM has put a word of caution.” Goa currently has only two active cases and five others have been cured. Rane said both patients have responded well to the treatment, but their exact status will be known in the next two days. He added that though Goa has not seen a large number of cases, it will still need to build capacity to fight the virus. “The secretary health has been asked to formulate the random testing protocol,” Rane said, adding that this would help widen the scope of testing in the state. Ten testing kiosks will be installed in industrial estates, he said. In light of the large number of Covid-19 cases in neighbouring states, Rane said, “Goa needs to be cautious. I will write to the chief minister asking that airline companies get Covid-19 negative certificates for their staff from a certified laboratory as and when airline service starts.” The health minister said things will become clearer when the central government’s guidelines are released on Wednesday. “They need to be followed in toto. Even if we have zero cases, we cannot afford to lower our guard,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/health-min-for-making-masks-compulsory/articleshow/75149327.cms||Bindiya Chari
April 15, 2020||Business||Biocon, Mylan take cancer drug to Australia||Bengaluru: Biocon and Mylan have launched Fulphila, a biosimilar of pegfilgrastim, in Australia to treat cancer patients. It opens up another advanced market for the the Bengaluru-based biopharmaceutical company.  Therapeutic Goods Administration aprroved the drug for the treatment of cancer patients after chemotherapy, to decrease the duration of severe neutropenia and thus reduce the incidence of infections. Neutropenia is when a person suffers low levels of neutrophils in the blood. Fulphila was the first biosimilar to be approved in the US and was launched in July 2018 and Biocon says it has a market share of 18% in the world’s biggest pharmacy market. Biosimilars are biologic products, made inside living cells, and has no clinical differences in terms of safety and effectiveness from the main product. They are however not considered duplicates, like generics, by regulators as it is impossible to manufacture exact copies of biotech drugs. “Fulphila, co-developed by Biocon Biologics and Mylan, is the third biosimilar to be commercialised in Australia and we hope that continued penetration of our biosimilars will enable higher cost savings for the Australian healthcare system,” Christiane Hamacher, CEO of Biocon Biologics, said. Biocon’s biosimilars, the first of which was launched in 2016 in Japan of insulin Glargine, has become the driving force of the company’s topline, with more of these products finding acceptance in the mature markets of Europe and the US, as also other countries. The company currently has 28 biosimilar molecules in different stages of development.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/biocon-mylan-take-cancer-drug-to-australia/articleshow/75149330.cms||---
April 15, 2020||Vijayawada||Fishing ban begins, fishermen seek help from govt||Visakhapatnam: Close on the heels of the first phase of Covid-19 lockdown, fishermen on the east coast are facing the annual 61-day fishing ban from April 14 midnight to June 14. The ban applies to over 1,800 mechanised boats in the state, while catamarans and manual fishing boats are exempt from the ban. The distressed fishermen have demanded immediate support from the government saying that the fishing season (June 2019 to April 2020) ended with some losses on account of Covid-19. The annual fishing ban (the time during which fish breed) for Andhra Pradesh, Odisha, West Bengal, Tamil Nadu, and Puducheery is in effect from April 15 to June 14. The fishing industry in parts AP has been facing serious challenges which have hampering the realisation of the full potential of the sector. There are over 1,800 mechanized fishing boats in the state in Vizag, Kakinada, Machilipatnam, Vadarevu, Kalingapatnam and few other areas. The once-thriving business is dwindling due to low catch in the Bay of Bengal. Speaking to TOI, president of AP Mechanized Fishing Boat Operators Association, PC Appa Rao said that due to the lockdown, over 70 per cent of the boats stayed anchored at fishing harbours from March 24 and that most of the fish markets have shut down. He added: “Though 30 per cent of the boats returned with some varieties of fish and prawn, we were forced to sell them at a loss of Rs 60 to Rs 80 loss per kg due to lack of proper transport to other states.” “Compared to the previous season, we incurred little losses (Rs 2 lakh to Rs 3 lakh) in the current season. Since most of the people who directly depend on the fishing industry are facing a financial crisis due to coronavirus, we have written a letter to chief minister YS Jaganmohan Reddy requesting him to sanction financial support of Rs 10,000 per family to rescue the families of fishermen,” Appa Rao said. Meanwhile, the official of the Fisheries Department said that a huge penalty would be imposed if any of the mechanised fishing boats were found venturing into the sea during the ban period.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/fishing-ban-begins-fishermen-seek-help-from-govt/articleshow/75147485.cms||Nalla.Babu
April 15, 2020||Goa||Goa: Vishwajit Rane takes Singapore’s cue, bats for compulsory masks||PANAJI: Following Singapore’s approach to curb the spread of Covid-19, health minister Vishwajit Rane has proposed to make wearing of masks mandatory in public spaces. The health minister moved a note to chief minister Pramod Sawant in this regard two days ago. “We need to follow the Singapore model and make masks compulsory in public places. I have also spoken with the chief minister about this,” Rane told TOI on Tuesday. Rane said while Goa is procuring the required quantity of masks for medical staff, there are many self-help groups (SHG) that have started making handmade masks. People can use those masks, he said. Terming the pandemic a “serious issue” as the country has already crossed 10,000 cases and there is no vaccine available for Covid-19, Rane cautioned people to take care and not neglect standard operating procedures (SOPs). “We can’t afford to take things lightly. The PM has put a word of caution.” Goa currently has only two active cases and five others have been cured. Rane said both patients have responded well to the treatment, but their exact status will be known in the next two days. He added that though Goa has not seen a large number of cases, it will still need to build capacity to fight the virus. “The secretary health has been asked to formulate the random testing protocol,” Rane said, adding that this would help widen the scope of testing in the state. Ten testing kiosks will be installed in industrial estates, he said. In light of the large number of Covid-19 cases in neighbouring states, Rane said, “Goa needs to be cautious. I will write to the chief minister asking that airline companies get Covid-19 negative certificates for their staff from a certified laboratory as and when airline service starts.” The health minister said things will become clearer when the central government’s guidelines are released on Wednesday. “They need to be followed in toto. Even if we have zero cases, we cannot afford to lower our guard,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/rane-takes-singapores-cue-bats-for-compulsory-masks/articleshow/75149325.cms||Bindiya Chari
April 15, 2020||Goa||Goa: Worried teachers get relief as lockdown is extended||PANAJI: In a relief for the state’s teachers chief minister Pramod Sawant on Tuesday put on hold orders asking them to report to work from Wednesday. Sawant’s decision came hours after Prime Minister Narendra Modi extended the lockdown to May 3. “Goa has hundreds of government primary schools where there is only a single teacher running the school, with not even as much as a sweeper or peon. What would these teachers do sitting alone in these schools? The decision to put on hold orders asking teachers to report to work from Wednesday has come as a huge relief,” a teacher said. Orders to report back on duty had left many teachers worried on account of public transportation. “Even if Kadamba buses ply, it will only be on the highways. A majority of government schools are located in the interiors. Nearly 90% of Goa’s teachers are females and many do not drive or ride and rely on public transport. Even on regular days, on Divar island, a male teacher can be seen transporting two female teachers at a time from the ferry point to the school on a bike,” said another teacher. Teachers also said that going by instructions from the directorate of education, they had completed the work of paper corrections and preparation of results at home. In these circumstances, there would be nothing to do at school, they said. Meanwhile, staffers of private professional colleges in Goa, four engineering colleges and one pharmacy college, said that there is ambiguity on when they should be joining work. “ The directorate of technical education has said that all gazetted officers under it should join work after April 20. But staffers of private colleges are not gazetted officers and there is no clarity forthcoming,” said faculty of a private engineering college.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/worried-teachers-get-relief-as-lockdown-is-extended/articleshow/75149329.cms||---
April 15, 2020||Patna||46 foreigners sent to jail for violating tourist visa norms in Bihar||PATNA: Altogether 46 foreign nationals have been arrested from different parts of the state and sent to jail for violating visa norms. They were in the country on tourist visas but indulged in promoting religious activities in violation of the Foreigners Act 1946. While 18 foreign nationals were nabbed in Araria and 11 in Buxar districts on Tuesday, 17 had been arrested in Patna on Monday night. All of them have been sent to jail. Among them, 20 are from Malaysia, nine each from Kyrgyzstan and Bangladesh, seven from Indonesia and one from Kazakhstan. Separate FIRs were lodged against them with respective police stations under Section 14(B) of Foreigners Act 1946. Their visas, passports and other related documents were seized. Police said they had come to Bihar after attending the Tablighi Jamaat congregation at Nizamuddin in New Delhi last month. They were kept in separate isolation camps for 14 days soon after being picked up by the police on the complaints lodged by local residents, who suspected them of being infected with novel coronavirus. As their 14-day quarantine period ended on Monday, the police arrested and produced them before the respective courts, which sent them to judicial custody for 14 days after medical examination. They have been kept in separate wards in the Beur central jail in Patna, Buxar central jail and Araria divisional jail. Patna senior superintendent of police (SSP) Upendra Kumar Sharma said the action against the foreigners were initiated on the directive of the immigration commissioner, who had earlier asked all the states and union territories to find out if the tourist visa and other norms were being violated by the visiting foreigners. “As the police had evidences of their involvement in promoting religious activities under the garb of tourist visas, we lodged separate FIRs with Phulwarisharif and Digha police stations in the state capital for violation of the provisions of Foreigners Act 1946,” he said. The 17 foreigners were picked up from Kurji area in Patna on March 23 and subsequently sent for medical examination. However, their medical reports were negative for Covid-19. “We are also tracing the people who had invited them to Patna,” the SSP added. Buxar SP Upendra Nath Verma said seven of the 11 arrested foreigners were from Indonesia and four from Malaysia. They have been sent to jail for violating the tourist visa norms. They were nabbed from a place of worship at Naya Bhojpur in Buxar district and subsequently quarantined last month. On Tuesday, they were sent to jail. Similarly, nine nationals each from Malaysia and Bangladesh were arrested from Araria and Narpatganj police station areas and subsequently kept in isolation camps there. “We had received instructions from the state police headquarters to send all those foreigners to jail for violating visa norms. We have submitted our action taken report to the police headquarters,” Araria SP Dhurat Sayali Sablaram said. Earlier, Patna SSP said the arrested foreigners may be sentenced to five years’ jail if found guilty under the provisions of Foreigners Act 1946 and convicted by the competent court. In Patna, sources said the Tablighi Jamaat returnees had visited several localities, including Harun Nagar and Kurji. The police investigation revealed that they had also visited a place of worship in Patna City. Notably, the state administration is on alert after Indonesians of Tablighi Jamaat were believed to have infected two young boys from Kadirganj in Begusarai district with Covid-19 last month. Begusarai and Nawada have accounted for at least 10 Covid cases, which were tracked to those having come either in contact with members of the Tablighi Jamaat or returnees from the Nizamuddin Markaz. State chief secretary Deepak Kumar said, “Begusarai is our main concern as two activists of the Tablighi Jamaat there have been found Covid positive. In Begusarai, it is difficult to identify the chain whereas in Siwan the chain of contacts has already been established.” Watch Covid-19: 11 foreign nationals sent to 14-day judicial custody for violating tourist visa norms||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/46-foreigners-sent-to-jail-forviolating-tourist-visa-norms/articleshow/75147492.cms||Ramashankar
April 15, 2020||Goa||Train services off tracks until May 3||MARGAO: With the extension of the lockdown until May 3, the suspension of passenger train services has also been extended until then. In view of the measures taken in the wake of Covid-19, a press note by Konkan Railway Corporation Ltd stated, “It has been decided by Ministry of Railways that the cancellation of all passenger train services on Indian Railways including Konkan Railway, that is all mail/express (including premium trains) and passenger trains shall be extended till (12 midnight) of May 3.” To ensure the essential supplies in various parts of the country, movement of Ro-Ro, goods and parcel trains, however, will continue. “No booking of any type of tickets, including e-tickets shall be done till further advice. However, facility of online cancellation will remain functional for ticket bookings,” the press note adds. All counters for ticket booking will also remain closed till further orders. Stating that full refund will be given for tickets for the bookings made for the trains cancelled, the press note adds.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/train-services-off-tracks-until-may-3/articleshow/75149332.cms||---
April 15, 2020||Vijayawada||Psychiatric patients unable to access mandatory daily drugs||Visakhapatnam: With the nationwise lockdown to combat novel coronavirus extended till May 3, several people, especially those in rural areas of Andhra Pradesh, are unable to access psychiatric drugs required for conditions like schizophrenia, bipolar mood disorder, psychosis and acute depression. The only state-run mental care hospital in the entire state—Government Hospital for Mental Care (GHMC), located in Visakhapatnam city—usually provides monthly medicines to each patient free of cost. Since March, almost all patients have exhausted those daily drugs and are unable to come to GHMC in the city due to the lockdown, hospital authorities said. These drugs are also not available at either primary health centres (PHCs) nor at small private pharmacies. Speaking to TOI, GHMC medical superintendent Dr S Radharani said, “About 90-100% of our patients have severe mental disorders, and must be on daily medication which requires two-three doses or even more. Anti-psychotic drugs and some anti-depressants may cost around Rs 2,000-Rs 3,000 per month depending on the tablets. If the patient skips taking the drugs even for a couple of days, the symptoms return immediately and the disorder will relapse. Such cases may even become unmanageable at home.” “Some stocks are supposed to be there in every district headquarters hospital, apart from the stock at GHMC. But due to the lockdown and closure of out-patient departments, the patients are not able to reach these District Area Hospitals. Since the lockdown has been extended further, I will discuss with the health authorities and see if the drugs can reach PHCs and peripheral health centres through the District Medical and Health Offices of every district,” Dr Radharani said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/psychiatric-patients-unable-to-access-mandatory-daily-drugs/articleshow/75147499.cms||Sulogna Mehta
April 15, 2020||Nagpur||Wary cops dealing cautiously with suspects, accused||Nagpur: The spread of Covid-19 has led the cops to devise their own impromptu Standard Operations Procedure (SOP) to deal with suspects and accused. One fallout is their wariness in dealing with members of a particular community that has seen most spread of virus so far. Cops are avoiding taking them into custody until a serious offence is committed. They are taking precautions with others too. Most police teams these days keep themselves equipped with sanitizers, gloves and masks. If an arrest is required to be made the SOP now includes wearing gloves and putting on a mask apart from sanitizing hands at the earliest. An officer said they also observe whether accused is showing any symptom of Covid-19 like cough or high temperature. “We are giving notices and asking the accused to turn up at police station for completing formalities. When an arrest is unavoidable, we first try to deal with the person from a safe distance and then make them sanitize hands properly and wear masks before taking into custody,” said an officer. Another officer said squads are smaller so police vehicles are less crowded. City police had already decided to avoid arrests in cases having punishments less than seven years. The court too has asked the cops to furnish bail from police stations wherever they are empowered to do so. The jail authorities too have made it mandatory for the police to get the accused tested for ‘Covid-19’ before taking them in. Until the reports are declared, all accused are kept in quarantine and not shifted to the barracks meant for the undertrials. A section of cops, especially from traffic department, claimed they were facing a tricky situation with violators whose vehicles are required to be seized. “If we ask the violator to follow us on their vehicle then they try to flee making our work difficult as we have to then trace them using the registration number. We often make that person ride pillion while we drive the vehicle to police station. But this may expose us to infection,” said a traffic cop. A section of the constabulary said detaining someone under Maharashtra Police Act or taking action under Section 188 of IPC required bringing them to police station which many are avoiding fearing the infection. “We make them cover their face with scarves and sanitize their hands properly before allowing them in police vehicles or even to ride pillion on bikes,” said a head constable.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/wary-cops-dealing-cautiously-with-suspects-accused/articleshow/75149335.cms||---
April 15, 2020||Delhi||Corona warriors ready for battle in Delhi||NEW DELHI: Rolling out its ambitious scheme to cover all households in the city through close to 14,000 teams of “corona foot warriors”, Delhi government on Tuesday briefed the booth-level officers about their role and responsibilities. A senior official said all teams were likely to be ready by Wednesday evening and the remaining members of each team — beat constables, anganwadi workers, coprorations’ sanitation staff and civil defence volunteers — would also be trained about their role. “While some teams will start working from Wednesday, all 13,750 teams will be on the job from Thursday,” said Sanjay Goel, coordinator of the Corona Foot Warriors Containment and Surveillance Team. The teams, which were formed by the district magistrates following an order from chief secretary Vijay Dev on Monday, will patrol the designated areas, regularly interact with residents, keep an eye on suspected cases and coordinate with health officials to get the tests done wherever required. They will also ensure compliance of lockdown rules at the ground level and regular supply of essential items in the containment zones. Although all teams were to start working from Wednesday, officials are still busy rearranging the staff and getting additional manpower. “We have deployed all civil defence volunteers on other assignments. We have now sought additional volunteers from the headquarters. By Thursday, all teams will start working,” district magistrate (west) Neha Bansal said. District magistrate (south) B M Mishra said his team was preparing the list of manpower to be deployed for the task. Each DM will have about 1,200 teams comprising 6,000 warriors under each of them. Goel, the coordinator of the drive, said the divisional commissioner, along with the district magistrates and the assistant electoral registration officers (AERO), will review the team formation and finalise the training module on Wednesday. “These teams will have different roles and responsibilities for containment zones, non-containment zones and market areas,” said Goel. All of them will be briefed about their roles before they start working. Each member will also be given hand sanitisers, masks and gloves. “To make them identifiable, we have decided to give them arm bands with Corona Foot Warriors Containment and Surveillance Team written on them,” Goel said. The does and don’ts for the teams will also be circulated through WhatsApp and will be available on the portals of AEROs, he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/corona-warriors-ready-for-battle/articleshow/75149331.cms||Atul Mathur
April 15, 2020||Vijayawada||Even not-so-popular fish varieties in demand now||Visakhapatnam: A few varieties of sea fish, which were hitherto unpopular and hence cheaply available, especially during the ban on deep sea-fishing, are having a moment. Usually, as mechanised boats remain docked at the fishing harbour, only catamarans venture into the sea and fishermen catch the unpopular varieties such as Gulivindalu, Kanagadatalu and Paralu among others. Meanwhile, popular varieties of fish such as silver pomfret, locally known as Chanduva, Vanjaram and Konam (small and big seer) and a few varieties of prawn become unavailable during the ban. Speaking to TOI, Mylapalli Yellaji, a fisherman said that there is a demand for fish among consumers but shortage of catch has pushed up the prices of Gulivindalu, Kanagadatalu, and Paralu. “We are expecting the prices of these varieties to increase further as popular varieties will remain unavailable on account of the fishing ban and demand for fish will as rise, he added. Usually the price of a kilogram of kanagadatalu is Rs 80 but now it costs around Rs 160. Similarly, other unpopular fishes such as Gulivindalu and Paralu are available for Rs 120 to Rs 140 per kilogram. During summers, the varieties, which are usually not sought-after, replace the costly vegetables. But, this time, they have became dearer due to Covid-19 lockdown. However, the demand for the Gulivindalu, Kanagadatalu, and Paralu has increased, said S Srinivas, a resident of Sagarnagar.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/even-not-so-popular-fish-varieties-in-demand-now/articleshow/75147532.cms||Nalla.Babu
April 15, 2020||Patna||Bihar: CM Nitish Kumar orders door-to-door screening in hotspot districts||PATNA: CM Nitish Kumar on Tuesday ordered door-to-door screening of people living in the four hotspot districts from April 16 for detecting suspected coronavirus cases. The first of its kind drive will be launched on the pattern of polio eradication campaign. Besides, those living in the affected areas adjacent to the four hotspot districts of Siwan, Begusarai, Nalanda and Nawada would also be screened. Further, all the persons living in the 3km radius of the villages from where coronavirus positive cases were reported would also be screened. The villages concerned would be deemed as epicentres of the pandemic. The CM said door-to-door screening should be done by a two-member team headed by a supervisor, who would prepare the list of screened persons and submit it to the office of block development officer (BDO) concerned. The BDO office, in turn, would prepare the list for ready reference. Nitish issued the directive after intensive review of the efforts being made to contain coronavirus spread in the state. Chief secretary Deepak Kumar and principal secretary (health) Sanjay Kumar participated in the meeting. The CM said the tour chart for the door-to-door screening should be prepared before its launch and adequate security care of the screening team should also be taken. Sanjay said around 8,000 villages will also be screened as people had returned from foreign countries in those areas since March 1. “Those places from where 66 positive cases have been reported will be considered as epicentres,” Sanjay said. No fresh case: Meanwhile, no positive Covid-19 case was reported in Bihar on Tuesday. Total 66 positive cases had been reported in the state till Monday night and 29 of them had recovered and one died. Nalanda district administration has sealed a locality in Biharsharif after a 40-year-old man tested positive for the virus. He is the third person from Nalanda to have tested positive for Covid-19. He had returned from Dubai on March 21. Nalanda district magistrate Yogendra Singh said the entire locality was sealed and 31 of his close contacts were quarantined. “Door-to-door screening of all the individuals living in his locality has been done and we have not got any symptomatic case,” he added. He further said they had also sent samples of 68 other people for test on Sunday, including that of a person who had come in contact with a Covid patient and others who came in his contact. But none of them tested positive. (With inputs from Sheezan Nezami)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/cm-orders-door-to-door-screening-in-hotspot-dists/articleshow/75147542.cms||Abhay Singh
April 15, 2020||Hubballi||Teacher falls for Jan-Dhan con, loses Rs 50,000 in Hubballi||HUBBALLI: Unidentified cybercrooks duped a woman of Rs 50,890 by posing as a bank official and obtaining her account details on the pretext of depositing lockdown relief package announced by Prime Minister Narendra Modi. According to the complainant, the woman, a retired teacher, received a call from a man who identified himself as a bank official. The man requested the woman to share the One Time Password (OTP) to her bank account in order to deposit Rs 2,000 — the relief package announced for women during the lockdown to her account. The woman shared the OTP to the caller, following which the amount was siphoned of via three transactions on April 11. Hubballi cyber crime police station inspector Prabhugouda D K said they are investigating the case. “Earlier, fraudsters would steal money under the guise of activating their blocked ATMs, taking deposit for jobs etc, but now fraudsters are targeting woman who are now eagerly waiting for money to be transferred to their Jan-Dhan account holders. It is not yet known whether the complainant has a Jan-Dhan account,” he added. “We suspect fraudster might have got the mobile number of the complainant from online data, or she might have been a random target. Bank authorities have said that the complainant’s mobile may have been hacked by the fraudsters, but we are not yet convinced by the theory. We also suspect involvement of bank staff. So we are investigating this case in many angles,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hubballi/rtd-teacher-falls-for-jan-dhan-con-loses-rs-50k/articleshow/75147526.cms||Basavaraj Kattimani
April 15, 2020||Nagpur||GIFS designs unique 3 layer mask to stop corona||Nagpur: The Goverment Institute of Forensic Science (GIFS) in city has designed a three-layered homemade mask for avoiding transmission of coronavirus. The unique mask has a thin plastic layer in the middle that prevents the Covid-19 virus from passing through. Designed by the National Social Service (NSS) scheme coordinator Malojirao Bhonsale, the college would be distributing these masks free to all those working in the frontline to avoid spread of deadly contagion. GIFS, under director RG Atram, Prof SR Thakre, RR Patil, VA Shende, and Nagpur University’s NSS coordinator Keshav Walke had already handed over masks to the healthcare and sanitation workers. It also plans to provide them to police and media personnel, apart from grocery shopkeepers, vegetable vendors and veterinary doctors. “We have made a small video on preparing this mask, which is uploaded on YouTube. The citizens can easily make them at home by watching the video. My wife is helping me in sewing these masks. Our aim is to help government in its battle to contain this virus,” Bhonsale told TOI. The funds for preparing mask were raised by the students and teachers through an online platform. “We collected around Rs10,000 and purchased 260 kgs of rice and 41 kgs of pulses that were distributed among 52 poor and needy families. Ambazari police station has been provided with sanitizer and handwash worth Rs3,500,” Bhonsale said, adding they had purchased good quality cloth for the mask from remaining amount. Explaining the advantages of this mask, Bhonsale said it could come in handy in view of shortage of N95 masks. “The Covid-19 virus is 60-140 nanometres and can pass through cloth masks or handkerchief. In our mask, the middle plastic layer ensures it can’t pass through,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/gifs-designs-unique-3-layer-mask-to-stop-corona/articleshow/75149355.cms||Vaibhav Ganjapure
April 15, 2020||Mysuru||Distribution problem to be resolved soon: Minister||Mysuru: District minister S T Somashekhar said that the Covid-19 lockdown will be implemented strictly and urged people’s continued support in this regard. “People in the district have been cooperating with the administration for the past few weeks. Let’s continue our fight jointly,” he said on Tuesday. Speaking to reporters in Hunsur, where he held a meeting, Somashekhar said that an order has been issued instructing factories not to terminate the services of their labourers or reduce their salaries. The problems related to the distribution of foodgrain will be resolved soon, he said. The minister said that he will convene a meeting with tobacco growers to discuss their problems in Mysuru on Wednesday. He added that a meeting of mango vendors will be convened within three days to discussion the issue of transportation to neighbouring states. He informed that there are 2.5 lakh new applications for ration cards and they will receive the same soon. “A decision in this regard will be taken in the next 2-3 days," he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mysuru/distribution-problem-to-be-resolved-soon-minister/articleshow/75143349.cms||---
April 15, 2020||Goa||Amid lockdown, Sikhs in Goa mark quietest Baisakhi in years||PANAJI: Baisakhi, one of Punjab’s biggest festivals that commemorates the foundation day of the ‘Khalsa Panth’ (Sikh order) by Guru Gobind Singh and also marks the start of harvest season, was observed by Sikhs across Goa in a low-key celebration amid the lockdown. The gurudwara at Betim, which is otherwise thronged by 350-400 devotees on the day of the festival, wore a deserted look this year. Tajinder Singh, a member of the Betim-based Gurudwara said this was the first quiet Baisakhi in a long time. “In Punjab, devotees have been allowed at some gurudwaras on the condition of maintaining social distance. But in Goa, there are strict rules imposed against forming groups and moving around, so people preferred to stay at home,” he said. Lucky Sektri, a resident of Ponda, said he and his family watched online videos of the day-long kirtan and engaged in prayer. The family prepared the ritualistic meal, sherbet and kheer, which are commonly served at the gurudwara. “The festival was not as grand as we would have had at the gurudwara, but considering the lockdown, we had no choice but to comply,” Sektri said. Some of the community’s members served food to the underprivileged and stranded labourers to observe the festival. “We have been serving the poor with nutritious food ever since the lockdown was imposed. Even on Baisakhi, we decided to continue doing so instead of staying home and celebrating with our families,” said Harpreet Singh. For farmers in Punjab, the festival of Baisakhi is the harbinger of hope as the harvest of wheat — the biggest rabi (winter sown) crop of the region — coincides with it. This year, however, prayers also included speedy recovery from the coronavirus. “We prayed for the world to heal quickly,” Satinder Singh, a resident of Borim, said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/amid-lockdown-sikhs-in-goa-mark-quietest-baisakhi-in-years/articleshow/75149342.cms||Nida Sayed
April 15, 2020||Business||Capgemini India increases salaries, grants allowances||BENGALURU: French IT services firm Capgemini, which has 1.2 lakh of its over 2 lakh employees in India, has taken some extraordinary steps towards employee welfare in these tough times. It has rolled out high single-digit hikes for 70% of its India staff, or 84,000 employees, effective April 1. The rest of the organisation will get increments effective July. It is providing up to Rs 10,000 as cash allowance to those employees who are stranded without a paying-guest accommodation. It is retaining its employees on the bench (those without billable projects) and paying their salaries without putting a timeline around it. These were decisions taken at its first virtual leadership meeting in mid-March. Many companies give a grace time of no more than 60 days for those on the bench to find a billable project, and are asked to go if they don’t. IT companies, on an average, have 6-8% of their total workforce on the bench. Capgemini India CEO Ashwin Yardi said irrespective of client furlough periods and bench time, employees will get their salaries. “This is a black swan event and at this point it’s not a question of timeline, but how our business will evolve. And we have a clear view as to what our economic model is going to look like and we don’t see any reason to discontinue this approach,” he said. The company has extended its shift allowance to employees working from home. Today, 95% of its workforce has been enabled to work from home compared to 15-20% prior to the Covid-19 fallout. Promotions scheduled for April will be effective July 1 and will be announced in June. The company has made variable payouts to all eligible employees along with the March payroll. Asked if the leadership team is contemplating a pay cut, Yardi said, “All employees at A and B grades (84,000 employees) have got their hikes and others will get increments in line with our plan. There’s no discussion within the leadership of Capgemini India for a pay cut,” Yardi said. Yardi said one of the key things is to ensure employees have the trust of the leadership. “And it’s not just talking about it, but demonstrating it. In these difficult times, people will look to us to see what actions we’re taking in building trust. We will have some cost-containment measures, but there are many other levers for that,” he added. Capgemini India has also set up a 25-million-euro (Rs 200-crore) benevolent fund, the proceeds of which will be used for medical emergencies for any of the employees who need it beyond their medical insurance or for their families.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/capgemini-india-increases-salaries-grants-allowances/articleshow/75149348.cms||Shilpa Phadnis
April 15, 2020||Pune||Pune: Four more with pre-existing illness succumb to Covid-19||PUNE: Four critically-ill patients diagnosed with the novel coronavirus infection succumbed to associated complications at Sassoon hospital on Tuesday, taking the death tally in the Pune Metropolitan Region to 36 so far. All the four deceased had pre-existing medical conditions, including hypertension, diabetes, liver disease and kidney ailment. Besides, 49 fresh cases of the contagion were recorded in PMR on Tuesday, which is the highest single-day positive count for PMR so far. With this, the total number of positive cases has gone up to 374 in the region. Of 49 fresh cases of Covid-19, maximum 43 cases were registered within the limits of Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC). Rest of the cases were recorded in Pimpri Chinchwad, cantonment and rural parts of Pune. The PCMC said on Tuesday night that total number of positive cases in its limits had increased to 43. Among the deceased, a 50-year-old woman from Kondhwa was admitted to the Sassoon hospital on Tuesday for complaints of breathlessness. “Despite being a patient of hypertension, she reported to the hospital a few days after developing the symptoms. This delay proved fatal and she succumbed to the respiratory complications on Tuesday,” a doctor from the hospital said. He said the other deceased was a 27-year-old man of Parvati Darshan, who was admitted to the hospital on April 12 for difficulty in breathing. “He was a known patient of liver cirrhosis. He succumbed to the complications on Tuesday,” the doctor said. A 42-year-old woman from Kondhwa was admitted to the Sassoon hospital on April 12 after she started experiencing chest congestion and breathlessness. “She also reported late to the hospital despite developing symptoms a few days ago. She was a patient of hypertension, diabetes and asthma. She succumbed to the complications on Tuesday,” the doctor said. He said the fourth patient to succumb to Covid-19 complications was a 77-year-old woman, a resident of Ghorpadigaon. “She was admitted to the Sassoon hospital on April 2. She was also a known patient of diabetes, hypertension and hypothyroidism and acute kidney injury. She died of the complications on Tuesday,” the doctor added. An analysis of all the cases in PCMC limits has revealed that all positive cases had come from 12 zones, of which maximum 25 had come from the nine zones that are under containment. Of these, 21 are being treated in PCMC-run hospitals, three in Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) limits and 12 have been discharged. One of them, a 42-year-old security guard, passed away last week. The civic body said its team of 160 civic officials surveyed 39,913 persons in the nine containment zones on Tuesday. Region death rateThe district administration on Tuesday admitted that the death rate of Covid-19 patients in the Pune Metropolitan Region (PMR) was higher than the state and the national average. With four more deaths on Tuesday taking up the region’s toll to 36, the PMR’s Covid-19 death rate was pegged at 10.34% (36 deaths and 348 positive cases) as against the state’s 6.84% and the country’s 3.45%. The global death rate of Covid-19 is 6.24%.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/four-more-with-pre-existing-illness-succumb-to-covid-19/articleshow/75149336.cms||Umesh Isalkar
April 15, 2020||Delhi||Covid-19 lockdown in Delhi: ‘Homeless are struggling to get food’||NEW DELHI: Days after three night shelters near Kashmere Gate were burnt down allegedly due to inadequate food for the homeless and jobless migrant workers, the civil society on Tuesday claimed that availability of food continues to be a major problem. In a letter to chief minister Arvind Kejriwal, Anjali Bhardwaj of Delhi Rozi Roti Adhikar Abhiyan claimed that the supply of cooked food was disrupted for two days. Sunil Kumar Aledia of Centre for Holistic Development has demanded that new shelters be set up in stadiums and bus depots and the homeless, who are forced to live along the Yamuna in despicable surroundings, be shifted there immediately. “The problem of food shortage in the shelters at Yamuna Pushta has been surfacing ever since the lockdown started last month. Thousands of migrant workers have congregated at the shelters, which already houses many homeless people. Despite this, adequate provision for food supply has not been made nor have additional centres been set up,” Bhardwaj’s letter stated. The organisation urged Delhi government to accommodate displaced people in nearby schools and shelters and ensure adequate supply of both cooked meals and dry rations. It also demanded that dry ration be provided to all needy people without asking for documents and a mechanism be put in place so that the system is not misused. While there were about 800 people living in the night shelters set up by DUSIB on the Yamuna ghat, hundreds of migrants reached there after the lockdown. A senior DUSIB official said 535 homeless were shifted to alternate locations on Tuesday. “We have identified 10-11 schools in Rohini, Avantika, Ghazipur and other locations to accommodate people and maintain social distancing norms. While 200 have already been shifted, the remaining will be moved on Wednesday. Those staying in the night shelters were being provided two meals daily,” he added. Adelia alleged that those shifted to the Ghazipur shelter came back late on Tuesday after police refused to allow them to stay there. DM (Central) Nidhi Srivastava said a large number of people living along the river were being provided food by her team. “These people are spread across a long stretch along the river, so some might have been left out. But we are ensuring food for all,” she added. Another official said that the district administration was working out a plan to move such people to temporary shelters in northwest Delhi.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/homeless-are-struggling-to-get-food/articleshow/75149361.cms||Atul Mathur
April 15, 2020||Vijayawada||One Covid death in Kurnool district, 10 new cases||TIRUPATI: Kurnool collector G Veerapandian on Tuesday confirmed that apart from ten fresh cases of novel coronavirus, one person succumbed to the virus in Kurnool district. Meanwhile, the Rajasthani youngster who was diagnosed of Covid-19 at Nossam village, was discharged from the Kurnool government general hospital on Tuesday evening. Addressing the reporters, collector Veerapandian said of the new Covid cases, five are residents of Ghani galli in Kurnool city and three were reported at Budhavaripeta. “All the areas where there have been positive Covid-19 have been designated as high-risk zones and measures to prevent the spread of the virus have been initiated,” he said. Pointing out that out of all the Covid-19 positive cases reported in the district so far, the district collector said 29 coronavirus cases were reported in Kurnool city alone, the district collector underlined that the district administration and the police department will enforce a more stringent lockdown from Tuesday. “All the people residing in high-risk areas will have to strictly remain indoors and all kinds of entry and exit routes to the zones will be stopped. The district administration will ensure all essential commodities are door delivered in the high risk zones,” added the district collector.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/one-covid-death-in-kurnool-dist-10-new-cases/articleshow/75147556.cms||Sandeep Raghavan
April 15, 2020||Vadodara||Provision store owner robbed of paan masala worth Rs 4,625 in Vadodara||VADODARA: Desperation for chewing paan masala and tobacco during lockdown has led to robbery of paan masala worth Rs4,625 in Dabhoi in Vadodara district on Monday. A provision store owner Mahesh Bariya, who had bought paan masala stock before lockdown, was carrying packets from his friend’s house to his shop when two robbers identified as Kuldeep Sharma and Ayub Tai on a motorcycle robbed him of them and a gold ring worth Rs17,000. According to Bariya, he had kept the paan masala at his friend Jamil Maqbul’s house before the lockdown. On Monday afternoon, he was bringing the stock to his shop when Sharma and Tai met him near railway crossing near Timbi village and asked him where he was going. When Bariya told him that he was going to his shop, the duo snatched the bag containing the packets of paan masala and forcibly took his ring and fled away. Bariya runs his shop from his home only. Based on their bike’s registration number, their identity was revealed and they were nabbed from their homes in Dabhoi town on Tuesday. Police said they have not been formally arrested but have been sent to SSG Hospital in Vadodara for their check-up and will be kept under quarantine until their reports arrive. “They are yet to be interrogated, but during preliminary questioning they said that they had the habit of chewing paan masala and were out of stock,” said a police official.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/provision-store-owner-robbed-of-paan-masala-worth-rs-4625/articleshow/75148548.cms||---
April 15, 2020||Business||GiveIndia gets Rs 75cr towards Covid-19 relief||Bengaluru: A host of corporate bigwigs, entrepreneurs and foundations have contributed to donation platform GiveIndia’s ‘India Covid Response Fund’ (ICRF). Contributors include the Bill & Melinda Gates Foundation, Google.org, Sundar Pichai, HSBC, Omidyar Network India, UBS Optimus Foundation, Marico, Uber, Binny Bansal, Helo (Bytedance) and A.T.E. Chandra Foundation. “Since we started fundraising for Covid relief work on March 22, we have received donations from more than 2 lakh people globally, raised Rs 75 crore, partnered with 40+ organisations, onboarded 100+ nonprofits, and these initial efforts will impact 1 million people,” Govind Iyer, director, GiveIndia and advisor, ICRF, said. However, he said, the on-ground requirement is much larger and the fund is an open platform for everyone to come together “and support the most critical need of the hour.” The fund’s objective is to create a larger corpus that can support up to 10 million people nationally. GiveIndia is India’s largest donation platform, connecting donors with NGOs. ICRF’s advisory group includes Kiran Mazumdar Shaw, Dr Devi Shetty, Binny Bansal, Sanjiv Mehta, chairman of Unilever, Amitabh Chaudhry, CEO of Axis Bank, Surendra Rosha, CEO of HSBC India, Manoj Kohli, country head of SoftBank, and others.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/giveindia-gets-rs-75cr-towards-covid-19-relief/articleshow/75149363.cms||---
April 15, 2020||Mysuru||CMC member gambling on street detained||Mysuru: A member of CMC ward no. 1 was detained by police when he was found gambling with others at a public place in Nanjangud town late on Monday night. Girish was playing cards with some others when police raided the spot. Police seized cards, cash and mobiles phones from them. Despite the district administration declaring Nanjangud as ‘coronavirus red zone’ given its number of cases involving employees of a pharmaceutical firm and their primary contacts, some people are violating lockdown restrictions and are playing cards on streets. Police detained five such persons in Halladaakeri, seven on Bazaar Road, including the CMC member. They were released later after a warning.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mysuru/cmc-member-gambling-on-street-detained/articleshow/75147572.cms||---
April 15, 2020||Pune||17 staffers of civic hospital quarantined||Pune: About 17 medical staffers, including doctors and nurses, of a civic-run hospital in Bhavani Peth were quarantined after a pregnant woman tested positive for the novel coronavirus infection (Covid-19) on Monday. “The woman is in the sixth month of pregnancy. She was undergoing treatment for typhoid at the hospital. During treatment, she developed flu-like symptoms. Hence, we shifted her to Sassoon hospital on April 12. She tested positive for Covid-19 on April 13. About 17 healthcare staffers of the hospital have been quarantined,” said public health expert Sanjeev Wavare, assistant medical officer of health (AMoH), Pune Municipal Corporation. Of the 17 medical staffers, three are doctors and nine are nurses. The other five are attendants and ward boys. “They will also be tested for Covid-19 in due course,” Wavare said. Bhavani Peth has emerged as a hotspot of coronavirus infection in the city. Maximum cases of Covid-19 in Pune have been reported from there.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/17-staffers-of-civic-hospital-quarantined/articleshow/75149366.cms||Umesh Isalkar
April 15, 2020||Business||Tata may keep Ralf Speth in JLR’s driver seat||Reeba.Zachariah@timesgroup.com Mumbai: The Tata Group is considering extending Jaguar Land Rover (JLR) CEO Ralf Speth’s tenure by a year. He is due to retire in September. The conglomerate is contemplating an extension for the 64-year-old British-German automobile engineer as it feels a safe pair of hands at the helm would be best to steer JLR out of the Covid-19 crisis. Speth, the longest serving CEO of JLR, is attributed with having revitalised the automotive company’s fortune after it was acquired by the Tata Group, and the conglomerate hopes he could give the firm a similar boost in the post-coronavirus era. JLR, Britain’s largest automotive company, has taken a hit since the Covid-19 outbreak, with sales plummeting to historic lows in several countries including China, its biggest market. While it recently reopened its factory in China, production at all of its three plants in the UK remain suspended. A major contributor to Tata Group’s revenue, JLR’s rejuvenation is key to the conglomerate’s automotive play. Discussions to extend Speth’s CEO tenure have been held, though no decision has been taken on it, said people familiar with the matter. The tenure extension consideration comes at a time when a search committee is in the process of identifying replacement candidates to steer JLR. If the group decides to extend Speth’s CEO tenure, it will be a rare case where a Tata chieftain’s term has been extended after his retirement age of 65 years. Extraordinary situations call for extraordinary measures and, hence, the move to retain Speth, the people quoted earlier added. Speth has been leading JLR since he and the automobile company became part of the Tata Group after it acquired the UK company from Ford in 2010. The carmaker’s profits have risen under his leadership over the years, though in 2019, there was a temporary dip as the China slowdown and Brexit-related disruptions forced JLR to write off past investments and axe jobs. Speth has since managed to revive JLR again and put it back on track. In the third quarter of fiscal 2020, the business returned to a profit of 318 million pounds as against a loss of 273 million pounds in the December quarter of fiscal 2019.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/tata-may-keep-ralf-speth-in-jlrs-driver-seat/articleshow/75136682.cms||Reeba Zachariah
April 15, 2020||Business||Tata may keep Ralf Speth in JLR’s driver seat||Reeba.Zachariah@timesgroup.com Mumbai: The Tata Group is considering extending Jaguar Land Rover (JLR) CEO Ralf Speth’s tenure by a year. He is due to retire in September. The conglomerate is contemplating an extension for the 64-year-old British-German automobile engineer as it feels a safe pair of hands at the helm would be best to steer JLR out of the Covid-19 crisis. Speth, the longest serving CEO of JLR, is attributed with having revitalised the automotive company’s fortune after it was acquired by the Tata Group, and the conglomerate hopes he could give the firm a similar boost in the post-coronavirus era. JLR, Britain’s largest automotive company, has taken a hit since the Covid-19 outbreak, with sales plummeting to historic lows in several countries including China, its biggest market. While it recently reopened its factory in China, production at all of its three plants in the UK remain suspended. A major contributor to Tata Group’s revenue, JLR’s rejuvenation is key to the conglomerate’s automotive play. Discussions to extend Speth’s CEO tenure have been held, though no decision has been taken on it, said people familiar with the matter. The tenure extension consideration comes at a time when a search committee is in the process of identifying replacement candidates to steer JLR. If the group decides to extend Speth’s CEO tenure, it will be a rare case where a Tata chieftain’s term has been extended after his retirement age of 65 years. Extraordinary situations call for extraordinary measures and, hence, the move to retain Speth, the people quoted earlier added. Speth has been leading JLR since he and the automobile company became part of the Tata Group after it acquired the UK company from Ford in 2010. The carmaker’s profits have risen under his leadership over the years, though in 2019, there was a temporary dip as the China slowdown and Brexit-related disruptions forced JLR to write off past investments and axe jobs. Speth has since managed to revive JLR again and put it back on track. In the third quarter of fiscal 2020, the business returned to a profit of 318 million pounds as against a loss of 273 million pounds in the December quarter of fiscal 2019.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/tata-may-keep-ralf-speth-in-jlrs-driver-seat/articleshow/75136588.cms||Reeba Zachariah
April 15, 2020||Business||Tata may keep Ralf Speth in JLR’s driver seat||Reeba.Zachariah@timesgroup.com Mumbai: The Tata Group is considering extending Jaguar Land Rover (JLR) CEO Ralf Speth’s tenure by a year. He is due to retire in September. The conglomerate is contemplating an extension for the 64-year-old British-German automobile engineer as it feels a safe pair of hands at the helm would be best to steer JLR out of the Covid-19 crisis. Speth, the longest serving CEO of JLR, is attributed with having revitalised the automotive company’s fortune after it was acquired by the Tata Group, and the conglomerate hopes he could give the firm a similar boost in the post-coronavirus era. JLR, Britain’s largest automotive company, has taken a hit since the Covid-19 outbreak, with sales plummeting to historic lows in several countries including China, its biggest market. While it recently reopened its factory in China, production at all of its three plants in the UK remain suspended. A major contributor to Tata Group’s revenue, JLR’s rejuvenation is key to the conglomerate’s automotive play. Discussions to extend Speth’s CEO tenure have been held, though no decision has been taken on it, said people familiar with the matter. The tenure extension consideration comes at a time when a search committee is in the process of identifying replacement candidates to steer JLR. If the group decides to extend Speth’s CEO tenure, it will be a rare case where a Tata chieftain’s term has been extended after his retirement age of 65 years. Extraordinary situations call for extraordinary measures and, hence, the move to retain Speth, the people quoted earlier added. Speth has been leading JLR since he and the automobile company became part of the Tata Group after it acquired the UK company from Ford in 2010. The carmaker’s profits have risen under his leadership over the years, though in 2019, there was a temporary dip as the China slowdown and Brexit-related disruptions forced JLR to write off past investments and axe jobs. Speth has since managed to revive JLR again and put it back on track. In the third quarter of fiscal 2020, the business returned to a profit of 318 million pounds as against a loss of 273 million pounds in the December quarter of fiscal 2019.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/tata-may-keep-ralf-speth-in-jlrs-driver-seat/articleshow/75136738.cms||Reeba Zachariah
April 15, 2020||Business||Tata may keep Ralf Speth in JLR’s driver seat||Reeba.Zachariah@timesgroup.com Mumbai: The Tata Group is considering extending Jaguar Land Rover (JLR) CEO Ralf Speth’s tenure by a year. He is due to retire in September. The conglomerate is contemplating an extension for the 64-year-old British-German automobile engineer as it feels a safe pair of hands at the helm would be best to steer JLR out of the Covid-19 crisis. Speth, the longest serving CEO of JLR, is attributed with having revitalised the automotive company’s fortune after it was acquired by the Tata Group, and the conglomerate hopes he could give the firm a similar boost in the post-coronavirus era. JLR, Britain’s largest automotive company, has taken a hit since the Covid-19 outbreak, with sales plummeting to historic lows in several countries including China, its biggest market. While it recently reopened its factory in China, production at all of its three plants in the UK remain suspended. A major contributor to Tata Group’s revenue, JLR’s rejuvenation is key to the conglomerate’s automotive play. Discussions to extend Speth’s CEO tenure have been held, though no decision has been taken on it, said people familiar with the matter. The tenure extension consideration comes at a time when a search committee is in the process of identifying replacement candidates to steer JLR. If the group decides to extend Speth’s CEO tenure, it will be a rare case where a Tata chieftain’s term has been extended after his retirement age of 65 years. Extraordinary situations call for extraordinary measures and, hence, the move to retain Speth, the people quoted earlier added. Speth has been leading JLR since he and the automobile company became part of the Tata Group after it acquired the UK company from Ford in 2010. The carmaker’s profits have risen under his leadership over the years, though in 2019, there was a temporary dip as the China slowdown and Brexit-related disruptions forced JLR to write off past investments and axe jobs. Speth has since managed to revive JLR again and put it back on track. In the third quarter of fiscal 2020, the business returned to a profit of 318 million pounds as against a loss of 273 million pounds in the December quarter of fiscal 2019.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/tata-may-keep-ralf-speth-in-jlrs-driver-seat/articleshow/75136607.cms||Reeba Zachariah
April 15, 2020||Pune||300 vehicle tyres deflated to enforce stay-at-home in Pune||PUNE: Police personnel patrolling the sealed areas of the city are using unorthodox methods like deflating tyres of two- and four-wheelers to deter people from commuting on roads without any valid purpose. In the last three days, the Kondhwa police have deflated tyres of around 300 vehicles in areas like Meethanagar, Bhagyodayanagar and Shivnerinagar, all falling in the Covid-19 containment zones, for violation of lockdown orders. They claimed these methods are acting as a deterrence because there are no garages or puncture shops to fix the vehicles. Senior inspector Vinayak Gaikwad of the Kondhwa police said, “We are constrained to take such action to discipline them as our repeated appeals to people through public address system appears to be falling falling on deaf ears as people continue to venture out without any purpose.” Twenty people from Kondhwa have so far tested positive for Covid-19 and another four have succumbed to the contagion, he said. “People have not realised the seriousness. We took a call to take stringent action against them like deflating tyres. Our actions are within the framework of the law. The crowd and the number of vehicles have started declining,” he said. A nine-member committee formed by the state government under the National Disaster Management Act (NDMA) has given special powers to enforcement agencies to take stringent measures to dissuade vehicle users from coming on the roads. “The police action of deflating tyres using powers under the NDMA and the Maharashtra Police Act provisions is legal,” former public prosecutor Balasaheb Khopade told TOI. Activist Salim Mulla said the police, instead of deflating tyres, should seize the vehicles. The government’s directive is in place, but people are not following them because they are not ready to change their mentality, he added. Food delivery boy Parvez Qureshi said, “I am doing the job of packaging and distributing food to the needy people on behalf of NGOs and a local corporator. I have a sticker pasted on my bike, but the police refused to recognise it. I showed them a letter issued by the local police authorising me to commute but the policemen asked me to show the QR code. I told them that my application for digital pass was pending, but they did not allow me to travel and deflated both the tyres of my bike. How do you help people in need of help?” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/300-vehicle-tyres-deflated-to-enforce-stay-at-home/articleshow/75149738.cms||Asseem Shaikh
April 15, 2020||Business||Tata may keep Ralf Speth in JLR’s driver seat||Reeba.Zachariah@timesgroup.com Mumbai: The Tata Group is considering extending Jaguar Land Rover (JLR) CEO Ralf Speth’s tenure by a year. He is due to retire in September. The conglomerate is contemplating an extension for the 64-year-old British-German automobile engineer as it feels a safe pair of hands at the helm would be best to steer JLR out of the Covid-19 crisis. Speth, the longest serving CEO of JLR, is attributed with having revitalised the automotive company’s fortune after it was acquired by the Tata Group, and the conglomerate hopes he could give the firm a similar boost in the post-coronavirus era. JLR, Britain’s largest automotive company, has taken a hit since the Covid-19 outbreak, with sales plummeting to historic lows in several countries including China, its biggest market. While it recently reopened its factory in China, production at all of its three plants in the UK remain suspended. A major contributor to Tata Group’s revenue, JLR’s rejuvenation is key to the conglomerate’s automotive play. Discussions to extend Speth’s CEO tenure have been held, though no decision has been taken on it, said people familiar with the matter. The tenure extension consideration comes at a time when a search committee is in the process of identifying replacement candidates to steer JLR. If the group decides to extend Speth’s CEO tenure, it will be a rare case where a Tata chieftain’s term has been extended after his retirement age of 65 years. Extraordinary situations call for extraordinary measures and, hence, the move to retain Speth, the people quoted earlier added. Speth has been leading JLR since he and the automobile company became part of the Tata Group after it acquired the UK company from Ford in 2010. The carmaker’s profits have risen under his leadership over the years, though in 2019, there was a temporary dip as the China slowdown and Brexit-related disruptions forced JLR to write off past investments and axe jobs. Speth has since managed to revive JLR again and put it back on track. In the third quarter of fiscal 2020, the business returned to a profit of 318 million pounds as against a loss of 273 million pounds in the December quarter of fiscal 2019.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/tata-may-keep-ralf-speth-in-jlrs-driver-seat/articleshow/75136624.cms||Reeba Zachariah
April 15, 2020||Ahmedabad||Beggars receive healing touch in Ahmedabad||AHMEDABAD: Having begun a drive to conduct medical check-ups of senior citizens in old age homes across the district, the Ahmedabad district collectorate has conducted medical tests on 87 beggars housed at the Odhav ‘Bhikshuk Gruh’. Officials said that the home houses beggars who have been rounded up from various places in the city. Many are originally from other states. “In these testing times, the collector has instructed the administration to reach out to all those sections of society which could be affected by the pandemic,” said Yogeerajsinh Gohil, additional resident deputy collector. The administration is also conducting health check-ups of senior citizens in various old age homes of the district. Over the next few days, there will be medical check-ups of over 700 such senior citizens.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/beggars-receive-healing-touch/articleshow/75149376.cms||---
April 15, 2020||Delhi||51 new cases take Delhi’s corona count to 1,561||NEW DELHI: One out of every 20 Covid-19 positive patients admitted to Delhi’s hospitals have a compromised lung function. They are requiring oxygen support, ICU care and, in some cases, mechanical ventilation. This was confirmed by the state health department on Tuesday. The department said 1,561 have been confirmed positive for the viral infection, including 51 fresh cases recorded on Tuesday. Total 30 people have died. “Of the 1,531 Covid-19 positive patients, 39 require oxygen support, 32 are in ICU and eight need ventilator support,” said an official. He added that 26 people who are admitted to the hospitals for suspected Covid-19 and whose test results are awaited are also in ICU. So far, 16,282 people have been tested for Covid-19 in Delhi. Of this, 1,561 (9.58%) have tested positive and 13,748 (84%) negative. The results of othersamples are awaited. Meanwhile, Delhi government on Tuesday issued orders for samples to be sent to the eight private labs approved for testing for Covid-19 in the state if the government-run labs are overburdened. “The payment will be done through Delhi State Health Mission funds,” sources said. With 1,531 Covid-19 positive cases, Delhi is the second-most affected state in the country after Maharashtra. Health officials said more than 71% of the cases are related to the Nizamuddin cluster and 25% are foreign travelled and their contacts. Only four per cent cases do not have a known source of infection, as yet. On Tuesday, two doctors from Ram Manohar Lohia hospital were confirmed positive for the disease. At least 50 others are under surveillance, sources said. Delhi State Cancer Institute has recorded 30 positive cases, mostly among the nurses and doctors. A nurse’s two-year-old child has also tested positive, sources said. Till Sunday, Delhi recorded 24 deaths of which, officials said, 12 were recorded at RML hospital. Three deaths took place at Lok Nayak hospital, five at private hospitals, and one death each at Safdarjung Hospital, Rajiv Gandhi Super Speciality Hospital and AIIMS-Jhajjhar. One Covid-19-affected person died at home. “Most of the Covid-19 deaths that have occurred in our hospital are of the patients who were referred from other hospitals at an advanced stage,” RML Hospital stated. “The patients admitted early or not having significant comorbidities are faring well,” it added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/51-new-cases-take-delhis-corona-count-to-1561/articleshow/75149371.cms||---
April 15, 2020||Nagpur||Maharashtra: Another mahua flower collector killed by tiger||NAGPUR: A 56-year-old man collecting mahua flowers was mauled by a tiger in the Pench Tiger Reserve (PTR), Maharashtra, in the West Pench range of the park on Monday evening. This is the fifth fatal case in the last six days in the region where mahua collectors were killed by tigers. Yet, mahua flower collection, being a vital livelihood activity for local villagers, continues unabated in forested villages. Pench field director Ravikiran Govekar told TOI that a woman and her husband from Ghatpendhari village entered the core area of Pench to collect mahua flowers on April 13. While collecting flowers, husband Anand Uikey (56) was attacked and dragged by a tiger. After getting information, the forest staff rushed to the spot. The search continued till late in the evening and Uikey’s body was recovered from compartment number 672 in the South Ghatpendhari beat. “This appears to be a chance encounter as villagers had ventured deep into the forest. There is no other related case in this area so far. The area is being monitored by forest staff and villagers have been told not to venture inside the forests. The department is helping the family of the deceased in all ways possible,” said Govekar. On April 8, two persons, including a woman from Satara near Kolara in the buffer zone of Tadoba-Andhari Tiger Reserve (TATR) and a 20-year-old girl from Khamba in MP Pench’s buffer, were killed by tigers in separate incidents. On April 11, one more mahua collector from Kawdapeth in the Mul forest range was killed by a tiger in the forest area. In all, 10 people have been killed in wild animal attacks in Chandrapur district alone since January this year. Even as people are being attacked, there is no scare. During a visit to the Pench tiger reserve’s buffer, TOI found locals venturing deep into the forest to collect mahua flowers. “We sell this produce to brokers after drying it. We get between Rs25-40 per kg. Though mahua flowers are used for various reasons, they are mostly sold to make liquor,” said a section of collectors from Khursapaar and Bandra in the buffer zone of Pench reserve.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/another-mahua-flower-collector-killed-by-tiger/articleshow/75149369.cms||Vijay Pinjarkar
April 15, 2020||India||No need to panic, says Gujarat CM after MLA who met him tests positive for Covid-19||GANDHINAGAR: The political leadership of Gujarat is keeping its fingers crossed on being able to avoid catching the Covid-19 disease after Congress MLA Imran Khedawala tested Covid-positive hours after he met CM Vijay Rupani, deputy CM Nitin Patel and junior home minister Pradipsinh Jadeja in Gandhinagar on Tuesday. Government sources said the meet lasted for 30 minutes during which the CM discussed the proposal of clamping curfew in all hotspots. Government sources said the meet of three Congress MLAs — Imran Khedawala, Gyasuddin Shaikh and Shailesh Parmar— lasted for 30 minutes during which the CM discussed the proposal of clamping curfew in all hotspots. Pictures of the meeting in Gandhinagar triggered panic as the CM was seen not wearing a mask and Khedawala’s mask was seen hanging from his chin. It's time to mask up and stay safe: Join TOI's #MaskIndia campaignRupani, however, insisted there was no need to panic as social distancing norms were followed during the meeting. “Khedawala was sitting about eight metres away from me. We have been taking all precautions. There is also no need [for me] to be quarantined,” said Rupani. After this meeting, the government announced clamping down of curfew in all coronavirus hotspots from April 15 (6am) to April 21 (6am) in the Walled City of Ahmedabad and Danilimda. Ahmedabad now accounts for 373 or 57% of the total 650 positive cases recorded till Tuesday evening. Of the total 78 new cases, 53 were detected in Ahmedabad. Two more deaths were recorded, taking the death toll to 28. The news of Khedawala testing positive has worried government officials as he has been active in enforcing lockdown in minority-dominated areas. However, Congress MLA Gyasuddin Shaikh said, “When we met the CM in the afternoon, his report was still awaited. He had given his sample for testing a couple of days ago after running fever. I have no symptoms and hence have not opted to get tested. If required, I will get tested.” Danilimda MLA Shailesh Parmar said, “We strictly maintained social distancing norms in the meeting.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/no-need-to-panic-says-gujarat-cm-after-mla-who-met-him-tests-positive-for-covid-19/articleshow/75150057.cms||Kapil Dave
April 15, 2020||Pune||Duo held for not wearing masks and hitting cop in Pune||PUNE: The Khadki police arrested a duo and booked their two accomplices after they were found roaming on a road at Kasai Mohalla late on Sunday night without wearing masks, a move made compulsory by the district administration in view of the Covid-19 pandemic. The four men slapped and abused one policemen of the patrolling team when asked why they were out and directed to go back home. Police arrested two scooter riders Qumer Mohammed Tamboli (23) and Shoaib Bashir Mujawar (23), both residents of Khadki. Their pillion riders managed to flee but the police are searching for them. During a night patrol round, constable Sharad Khairnar and his colleague spotted the scooter-borne men. The police have filed a case against them under IPC sections 353 (assault or criminal force to deter public servant from discharge of his duty), 270 (malignant act likely to spread infection of disease dangerous to life) and 188 (disobedience).||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/duo-held-for-not-wearing-masks-hitting-cop/articleshow/75149739.cms||---
April 15, 2020||Visakhapatnam||Good Samaritans reach out to the elderly||Visakhapatnam: Amidst the Covid crisis, many Good Samaritans have come forward to help the destitute and the stranded who are living on the pavements and under flyovers in different locations of the city. Vengamamba Srinivas, a local businessman, has been distributing food and other essential items to stranded workers1 since the crisis began. He has also been providing medical equipment and other services to medical professionals and shelter homes. Besides supplying cooking gas to shelter homes, Srinivas has donated Rs 1 lakh to city police commissioner, and has so far spent over Rs 4 lakh on supplying food, ration, masks and other essentials. Robbi Srinivas, founder of Vanaprastha Old Age, has also been providing food to senior citizens since March 25. “We are serving nearly 1,400 people on a regular basis. Most of them are stranded labourers who have been hit the worst owing to the lockdown,” he said. NS Raju, managing trustee of Age Care Foundation, has been providing palliative and hospice care services in and around the city. “We will continue to serve 300 packed meals for lunch and dinner to patients and attendants of Mahatma Gandhi cancer hospital and Queen Victoria hospital till the lockdown is lifted,” he said. There are also some who are reaching out to sanitary workers and police personnel who are out on the streets under the hot sun most of the time. “We are distributing food packets, energy drinks and water bottles to sanitation workers and policemen with the support of Symbiosis Technology,” said Uday, who works for an IT firm in Rushikonda.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/visakhapatnam/good-samaritans-reach-out-to-the-elderly/articleshow/75147609.cms||---
April 15, 2020||Nagpur||Lockdown love: Nagpur girl gets engaged on video call||NAGPUR: Even a distance of over 1000 kilometres and a nationwide lockdown could not stop two lovebirds from keeping their solemn promise of getting engaged on the pre-decided date of April 12. Nagpurian Neha Sharma and her Delhi-based fiance Utkarsh Bansal took to WhatsApp video call, with families in tow, and exchanged rings and promises that will last them a lifetime. Had it not been for the lockdown, 25-year-old Neha would have been decked up in a beautiful beige gown for the engagement party scheduled at a city hotel and attended by friends and relatives. “On April 10 my fiance was supposed to arrive from Delhi with his family, and hence on that particular day I was feeling gloomy,” said Neha. “So my would-be mother-in-law cheered me up saying that on April 12 I must wear the engagement dress and join on video call. At that time, I took it lightly because I assumed it was meant just to perk up my mood,” she said. Sunday came and even though Neha and Utkarsh spoke on the phone, an e-engagement was not even discussed, as both were upset about not only missing out on the event but also the prolonged uncertainty. “It was almost around 11.30pm that I finally decided to wear my engagement dress after which I made the video call,” said Neha. Her fiance was floored at what he saw. “She was looking very beautiful in that dress and I was speechless. My mother told me to also get dressed formally. Everything happened very fast after that,” said Utkarsh. Soon enough they ‘exchanged’ rings on the video call to complete the ceremony. Neha laughed saying, “I wore his ring and he wore mine and it was an amazing feeling.” The atmosphere brought to fore the romantic side of an otherwise shy Utkarsh. “He said no matter if we are so far away, we will always be together and all that,” gushed Neha. With both families present during the e-ceremony, it was as good as it could have got given the current situation. The young couple will have to wait for some more time before their arranged marriage is solemnized. Utkarsh said, “We last met on January 22 for the roka ceremony. She was supposed to come to Delhi in March, but by then travel restrictions were in place. Marriage in Delhi is scheduled for May 19 with a reception in Nagpur the same week.” These dates too, may now get extended. Last heard, the couple has committed to follow social distancing with a firm belief that distance makes the heart grow fonder.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/lockdown-love-city-girl-gets-engaged-on-video-call/articleshow/75149378.cms||Abhishek Choudhari
April 15, 2020||Pune||Pune: Flyers hold tickets but have nowhere to go||PUNE: The lockdown extension has left several travellers in the lurch as they had booked air tickets to their hometowns post-April 15. Online travel firms said that airlines had started accepting bookings for the period after April 15. “Since everybody was unsure about the lockdown situation, the airlines had categorically mentioned on their websites that in case of an extension, consumers would have the option of 100% refund (in the form of a voucher that can be used later in the year) on the air tickets,” a source from an online travel portal said. A source from another online travel portal added, “As of April 13, airlines were taking domestic flight bookings for April 15 onwards. Due to rumours about the lockdown likely to be lifted for a couple of days and then reimposed, a lot of people took to panic-buying.” Several eCommerce websites, like ixigo, are updating consumers on the latest policies by various airlines for refunds and cancellation over their mobile apps and websites.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/flyers-hold-tickets-but-have-nowhere-to-go/articleshow/75149749.cms||Neha Madaan
April 15, 2020||Delhi||Validity of curfew passes extended too in Delhi||NEW DELHI: People with curfew passes valid till April 14 have nothing to worry as their validity has been extended till May 3. Delhi Police commissioner SN Shrivastava issued an order asking all DCPs, SHOs and other officers to extend the validity, adding that no separate order for renewing passes will be issued. So far Delhi Police has issued over 58,000 passes. Shrivastava in an internal communication addressed to officers of all ranks stated that validity of police passes would also be extended till May 3. “No separate order for renewing passes will be issued. All guidelines and instructions shall continue to be valid till further orders. The e-passes issue by Delhi government shall be honoured by all the police personnel on duty, if they are accompanied by original message of issue on mobile and identity proof of the person.” Police have issued curfew passes to people who run daily essential goods supplies, newspaper vendors and even NGOs and people engaged in food distribution, among others. Since March 23 when the lockdown came into force, cops have issued 59,025 movement passes, impounded 17,837 vehicles and detained 1,30,953 people. As the incidents of people misusing the curfew passes have come to fore, the cops have tightened the security. On Sunday, a 35-year-old man was caught in south Delhi’s Safdarjung carrying an illegal curfew pass. Police invoked sections of cheating in the case. The same afternoon, police intercepted a car at a picket, when the driver was asked to show his pass, he showed a slip. “We checked the pass and it was an expired one, also it was issued by the Noida administration and was only meant for movement in the district,” a police officer said urging people not to misuse passes.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/validity-of-curfew-passes-extended-too/articleshow/75149373.cms||---
April 15, 2020||Pune||Pune: Red tape, jurisdiction issues pose problems to travel pass seekers||PUNE: A man had to admit his aged mother to a hospital in Pimple Saudagar. When he went to the only open fuel station in Kalewadi, they refused to fill up his tank and asked him to visit the nearest police station to get a pass. The Kalewadi police refused to issue him one. A senior officer directed him to go to the police station nearest to his home or hospital. When asked if online option was available, the person was directed to a helpline, where his call went unanswered. The man is yet to get the pass. Last week, e-commerce executives had a tough time in getting passes for delivery boys. When they got some, the passes issued in Pune were not honoured in Pimpri Chinchwad. They were told to come to the Pimpri Chinchwad offices to procure passes for operations there. “There is a lot of red tape here. One has to wait for a day and submit a lot of documents to get passes,” an executive of an e-commerce firm said. Problems like these notwithstanding, senior police officers insisted no restriction had been imposed on emergency travel. Pune police commissioner K Venkatesham told TOI, “We shall talk to the Pimpri Chinchwad police commissioner and discuss the problems faced by people in commuting between the two cities and we shall see how it can be streamlined.” The Pune police are issuing digital passes to people for commute within the city under certain categories. The Pimpri Chinchwad deputy commissioner of police, Sudhir Hiremath, said, “In genuine cases like visiting hospitals, we have not stopped any person from commuting from here to Pune. Petrol pumps are functioning as per the order of the district collector. We help people in getting petrol in emergency situations.” He said, “We have not issued digital passes. We are operating manually and allowing essential services like delivery boys of online aggregators to offer services to clients, but they will have to show identity cards.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/red-tape-jurisdiction-issues-pose-problems-to-travel-pass-seekers/articleshow/75149744.cms||Satyanarayan Iyer
April 15, 2020||Pune||ENT specialists flooded with anxious phone calls in Maharashtra||PUNE: With all the uncertainty surrounding coronavirus, many people are feeling anxious and worried. Many are rushing to see the doctor after experiencing only a minor discomfort. Ear, Nose and Throat (ENT) surgeons and general practitioners say they are dealing with several such patients every day. The doctors say these people are driven by panic after experiencing the mildest irritation or dryness in the throat. ENT surgeon Virendra Ghaisas said, “I have noticed that even those suffering from a little itching in the throat or ears call me or ask if they can visit the OPD. Nearly 80% are “panic patients” and I have to explain to them that they do not have fever or any other symptoms.” Avinash Bhondwe, general practitioner and president of the Indian Medical Association, Maharashtra, said that there has been an increase in patients suffering from respiratory infections over the last few days due to the climate change. “Many are suffering from cold, cough or fever and are extremely worried. We explain to them that these infections are on the rise due to the change in season. Some do not even have symptoms and visit just to clear their doubts about the caronavirus and what will happen next,” he said. Bhondwe has been counselling patients to try and ease their fears. “With the sort of information we are being bombarded with, it is just a matter of time before people start seeing coronavirus in everything,” he added. ENT surgeon Vandana Joshi said, “Every ENT surgeon from the city must be receiving at least two to thre panic calls every day. The patients complain of itchiness in the throat or ears. I tell them to gargle using salt water and take paracetamol. They sound extremely worried about contracting the coronavirus and we have to explain that they have no fever, no travel history nor any known contact with someone who has tested positive so there is nothing to worry about. We tell them to come to us if the trouble persists.” ENT surgeon Gauri Belsare said most people call up forre assurance. “People are more worried now and call up if they get a throat pain. They mention that they do not have fever. I prescribe medicines and tell them to report back if the medicines do not have any effect. Throat infections have reduced as people are not eating outside and not getting exposed to dust,” Belsare said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/ent-specialists-flooded-with-anxious-phone-calls/articleshow/75149751.cms||Rujuta Parekh
April 15, 2020||Pune||More health workers in Bhavani Peth||Pune: The civic body has deployed additional employees, including doctors and health inspectors, at its Bhavani Peth ward office, which has so far recorded the highest number of positive Covid-19 cases in the city. The new team includes two doctors, a senior health inspector and six health inspectors. An civic official saidaround 39 teams were already deployed in the ward for home-to-home surveys. The new team will intensify the ongoing surveys, carry out contact tracing and offer medical services to symptomatic patients, the official said.  “We also get daily inputs on positive cases. The teams deployed help in contact tracing, which is vital to the containment plan. A mobile medical van has also been deployed in the ward to extend medial services at people’s doorsteps,”a senior civic official said. The Bhavani Peth ward has reported around 78 cases till April 13.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/more-health-workers-in-bhavani-peth/articleshow/75149756.cms||Sarang Dastane
April 15, 2020||Pune||Train passengers unhappy with July 31 deadline for claiming refund||Pune: With the railways suspending train services till May 3 those who have booked tickets from counters can cancel them anytime by July 31, officials said. However, many passengers said that the time given for collecting refunds was short and needed to be extended. "The lockdown has been extended till May 3. People will have two months to cancel their tickets but this is a short time considering that there might be lakhs of people who have booked tickets. ," a Pune-based passenger, who had booked a ticket for a travel to Patna later this month, told TOI. A Pune rail division official said that the date was expected to be adjusted in a later phase. — Joy Sengupta||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/train-passengers-unhappy-with-july-31-deadline-for-claiming-refund/articleshow/75149760.cms||Joy Sengupta
April 15, 2020||Hyderabad||Migrants head home in Andhra Pradesh, GHMC stops assuring help||HYDERABAD: In a tragedy that is unfolding across the country, a large number of migrant labourers, hours after Prime Minister Narendra Modi announced extension of the lockdown, hit the roads of the city on Tuesday as they attempted to walk back to their homes in Andhra Pradesh. Some had decided to make the 800 km journey, to their home in Srikakulam, on foot. Over 100 such workers, including men, women, youth and children, were intercepted by the police between Habsiguda and Uppal.The police and GHMC officials assured them of food and shelter but the workers were in no mood to relent. They wanted the officials to arrange transport for them or be allowed to walk back home. The migrants relented only after animal husbandry minister Talasani Srinivas Yadav and Uppal MLA B Subhash Reddy reached the spot and assured them the government will take care of them. The workers were sent back in vehicles to their rented premises in the city with the promise of help till May 3. Malkajgiri ACP Narasimha Reddy confirmed there were over 100 migrant workers, mainly belonging to Srikakulam in Andhra Pradesh, who had attempted to walk back home. The workers, who were ready to seek alms on their way home, said they were not happy with the extension of lockdown as they had spent all their savings in the past 21 days. They did not have any money left with them. The workers had started from the slums of Marredpally and managed to reach Habsiguda - a distance of 7km, on foot. This was not an isolated case as migrant labourers came out on to the streets of Safilguda and other places in and around Greater Hyderabad. They demanded that the government either make travel arrangements for them to go back to their homes or allow them to walk. Joint Commissioner of Labour Gangadhar termed it as ‘unrest’ brewing among migrant labour due to the lockdown period being extended. “It will take one or two days for everything to settle down. They will be given counselling and explained it’s not safe to venture out during Covid-19 forced lockdown,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/migrants-head-home-in-ap-ghmc-stops-assuring-help/articleshow/75149387.cms||Roushan Ali
April 15, 2020||Amaravati||Migrants head home in Andhra Pradesh, GHMC stops assuring help||HYDERABAD: In a tragedy that is unfolding across the country, a large number of migrant labourers, hours after Prime Minister Narendra Modi announced extension of the lockdown, hit the roads of the city on Tuesday as they attempted to walk back to their homes in Andhra Pradesh. Some had decided to make the 800 km journey, to their home in Srikakulam, on foot. Over 100 such workers, including men, women, youth and children, were intercepted by the police between Habsiguda and Uppal.The police and GHMC officials assured them of food and shelter but the workers were in no mood to relent. They wanted the officials to arrange transport for them or be allowed to walk back home. The migrants relented only after animal husbandry minister Talasani Srinivas Yadav and Uppal MLA B Subhash Reddy reached the spot and assured them the government will take care of them. The workers were sent back in vehicles to their rented premises in the city with the promise of help till May 3. Malkajgiri ACP Narasimha Reddy confirmed there were over 100 migrant workers, mainly belonging to Srikakulam in Andhra Pradesh, who had attempted to walk back home. The workers, who were ready to seek alms on their way home, said they were not happy with the extension of lockdown as they had spent all their savings in the past 21 days. They did not have any money left with them. The workers had started from the slums of Marredpally and managed to reach Habsiguda - a distance of 7km, on foot. This was not an isolated case as migrant labourers came out on to the streets of Safilguda and other places in and around Greater Hyderabad. They demanded that the government either make travel arrangements for them to go back to their homes or allow them to walk. Joint Commissioner of Labour Gangadhar termed it as ‘unrest’ brewing among migrant labour due to the lockdown period being extended. “It will take one or two days for everything to settle down. They will be given counselling and explained it’s not safe to venture out during Covid-19 forced lockdown,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/amaravati/migrants-head-home-in-ap-ghmc-stops-assuring-help/articleshow/75150252.cms||Roushan Ali
April 15, 2020||Pune||Unable to sell produce, worried farmers give away leafy vegetables in Pune||PUNE: Savleram Kute, a farmer from Pimpri Pendhar village in Junnar tehsil, has been cultivating coriander in a big way in summer. Last year, he earned Rs15 lakh by auctioning coriander in Narayangaon market yard. This year, though, it has been a different story due to the outbreak of Covid-19 contagion. The coriander crop on Kute’s 8-acre farm is lying unattended as he is not able to engage a helping hand to collect and transport the produce to the market yard. "I don’t have the manpower nor can I transport the corriander crop. So, I have distributed bunches of coriander to villagers," Kute told TOI over the phone. Like Kute, there are many farmers who are facing financial losses in Khed, Ambegaon, Shirur, Daund and Baramati talukas as they are unable to take their perishable leafy produce to the markets and auction them. Avinash Argade, who cultivated fenugreek in Khed tehsil's Kalus, said, "Growing leafy vegetables in summer is a tough task. One needs to be careful while watering and using pesticides. After taking all these precautions and investing money, I am now selling fenugreek at a throwaway price." In contrast, most leafy vegetables already available in the city markets are selling at a much higher price. Coriander, fenugreek and spinach are being sold in the range of Rs30 to Rs50 per bunch. Dattatray Kalamkar, head of vegetables, onion and potato division at the Gultekdi market yard, said, " The leafy vegetables cannot survive in this heat. The situation is bad for farmers in the district."||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/unable-to-sell-produce-worried-farmers-give-away-leafy-veggies/articleshow/75149763.cms||---
April 15, 2020||Pune||Pune: Curfew imposed in 28 new containment zones||PUNE: Joint commissioner of police Ravindra Shisve on Tuesday said curfew under Section 144 (1) (3) of the Code of Criminal Procedure (CrPC) would be imposed in 28 new containment zones across the city with effect from Wednesday 8am to check the spread of coronavirus. “These new zones are in addition to the five containment zones under the Kondhwa, Faraskhana, Swargate and the Khadak police jurisdiction where curfew was imposed on April 7. The new 28 zones areunder the jurisdiction of 12 police stations,” Shisve told TOI. Shisve, as well as district collector Naval Kishore Ram, had earlier released two fresh orders, extending till May 3 all the prohibitory orders issued since the imposition of the lockdown and making wearing of masks compulsory in areas under the Pune police’s jurisdiction. Closure of all religious places would also continue till the lockdown period was over. The collector’s orders are critical for implementation in the Pune rural police jurisdiction. Shisve said, “Since the number of coronavirus cases is increasing, we want strict enforcement of the lockdown. We have facilitated movement of people having valid reasons. We will be stricter in the Phase II of the lockdown, as any irresponsible behaviour by people will defeat the whole purpose.” Deputy commissioner of police (crime) Bachchan Singh said the passes issued to people in essential services by the Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) and the district collector's office would be valid. Ram, who also heads the Disaster Management Authority, said in a statement on Tuesday that all the orders related to containment of coronavirus would continue till further notice in the wake of the new announcement of the lockdown extension. The Pimpri Chinchwad police on Tuesday said the order of sealing of areas in Chikhali, Dighi, Bhosari, Pimpri and Wakad would continue till further notice. “People in these areas can buy essentials between 8am and 11am. Banks too have been asked to operate only ATM services in these areas,” said R R Patil, Pimpri Chinchwad’s assistant commissioner of police. The officer added that the police have taken action against 167 people for not wearing masks during the past four days.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/curfew-imposed-in-28-new-containment-zones/articleshow/75149386.cms||Asseem Shaikh
April 15, 2020||Bhubaneswar||Popular children’s writer discovers his culinary skills||Bhubaneswar: Had it not been for the lockdown and his wife being away in Boston with their son, popular children’s writer Jitendra Narayan Dash, popular as Dash Benhur, would have never discovered his culinary skills. “I had seen my wife prepare food and learnt by observing. Thankfully, rice and dalma both turned out well,” said Dash, who is confined to his home. His day starts at 4 am. He gets down to write for children with a steaming cup of tea beside him. These days, he writes two poems for children that he posts on Facebook every day. These are ‘Chime a Rhyme’ in English and ‘Tinanka Pain Nanabaya’ in Odia and a couplet in the Bhagabata style. “During the lockdown, nobody talks about children. I started posting poems on Facebook to keep the children entertained,” said Dash, a Bal Sahitya Puraskar awardee in 2014. Besides cooking, Dash also has to water 85 potted plants in his terrace garden. He considers it a good exercise climbing floors to go to the terrace and moving around with a bucketful of water. He also does other odd jobs in the house apart from watching world and local news before retiring for the day around 9 pm with a Netflix documentary series for company. His favourites are ‘Death of Stalin’ and ‘Fall of Czars’. Dash, a retired principal of SCS College, Puri, feels that the lockdown has taught him to use time better and to internalise things. “After the Covid-19 pandemic, people will look with respect at village life where every house is a self-sustaining unit. Villagers usually have foodgrains stored for a year and vegetables are sourced from the kitchen garden. Also, old-timers are very particular about cleaning their hands and feet before entering the house, which has now become a norm worldwide since the outbreak of the virus,” said Dash, who has stocked up on essential food items and has not left the house in the past 20 days.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhubaneswar/popular-childrens-writer-discovers-his-culinary-skills/articleshow/75146763.cms||Arunika Mohapatra
April 15, 2020||Pune||Foot traffic competes with bikes in sealed areas as baking tin roofs drive people out||Pune: Life in the containment zones across the city is peppered with frailties. Even in a lockdown, some people step out without valid reason, defy orders to wear masks, ride their two-wheelers, break down the barricades, all leading to inevitable runs-ins with the policemen patrolling the area.The arrival of the men in khaki signalled a change in life here, and as the days wear on it may test the patience of citizens and those trying to implement the lockdown, as a team of TOI reporters and photographers who visited some sealed areas on Tuesday found out. IN KASBA PETH Barricades Can’t Hold Them Back Citizens broke the barricades installed to prevent people from using the road near Devaji Baba Chowk. Wooden poles fitted horizontally along with the police barricades were damaged, leaving half the road open for vehicular traffic. Two- and four-wheelers freely used the passage to commute to places they wanted to go to. “Policemen set up these barricades and for some time they were helpful in cutting back the traffic flow. They could not have opened the road for traffic by removing these barricades; its the unruly people who have broken it,” a local resident said. IN BHAVANI PETH After a lull, people step out for no good reason The area has been sealed for over a week. But now, more residents are coming out from their homes when compared with the initial days of the lockdown. “Only a handful of people used to come out of their houses during the first few days of the sealing. But the picture has changed now. Footfalls have increased. People are walking out of their houses at all times, and many are using their vehicles,” an on-duty a police official at Sant Kabir Chowk said. Self-discipline is sorely lacking, the cops said.  SHANKARSHETH ROAD Frivolous reasons to be on the road Police officials on duty around Sant Kabir Chowk said many find the flimsiest of reasons to venture out on the road. “Though we are cross-verifying, people often say they have to attend a funeral or visit someone at the hospital as a shield and try to sneak out of their homes. It becomes difficult to curb their movements in these situations,” an official deputed on duty said.AT PARVATI PAYTHA Access to public toilets is 100m away The Parvati Paytha Jilbya Maruti Mandal has set up barricades on its own, so that people don’t go out on the road. But many have no option as access to a public toilet is located 100m away. “We are not getting enough ration. Arrangements should be made to make sure that the quantity is enough for all family members. It should not be provided just as lip service,” Sakharbai Pawar, a senior citizen, said.“Staying at home and maintaining social distance is not possible due to lack of space. Six or more people are living in extremely small houses. They cannot be locked inside their homes for days together. It is virtually impossible,” said Shivaji Mali, another resident. Their tin shed homes heat up in summer and power failures mean they cannot use fans.IN RAVIWAR PETH Jammers preventing purposeless ridesA group of police officials in Raviwar Peth have used jammers and seized vehicles of people venturing out without reason. The owners were told walk back home. The bikes were kept in police custody throughout the day. “We have taken the numbers of these vehicles and warned their owners. Serious action will be taken if these people indulge in such an act again,”a police official said.AT PATIL ESTATE Space under flyover becomes new meeting place The Patil Estate slum was the latest to be sealed on Tuesday. The police and civic administration installed barricades at all the entry-exit points of this slum, but people made their way under the flyover and at the roadside in small groups, while many gathered outside shops. Barring bakeries and grocery stores all other shops in the area were closed on Tuesday. Vikas Das, a local resident, said those having bigger families cannot accommodate everyone at home at the same time which forces people to sit outside.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/foot-traffic-competes-with-bikes-in-sealed-areas-as-baking-tin-roofs-drive-people-out/articleshow/75149390.cms||Sarang Dastane
April 15, 2020||Bhubaneswar||City agencies air-spray disinfectant using drones||Bhubaneswar: The Bhubaneswar Municipal Corporation (BMC) and the Bhubaneswar Smart City Limited (BSCL) on Tuesday successfully conducted a trial run to spray disinfectant using drones as part of measures to check the spread of coronavirus. The trial was carried out on the stretch between Rajmahal Square and Sishu Bhawan Square. BSCL sources said two drones were pressed into the job. While one was meant for surveillance and flew at a height of 30 feet to check whether the stretch was free of people and animals, the other drone, which flew lower, at a height of six feet, sprayed the disinfectant. The drone carried 15 litre of disinfectant and sprayed the 1.5-km-long stretch within 15 minutes. “We had to put up a barricade to rid the area of humans and animals since the disinfectant is poisonous. We kept a watch on the stretch till 2 pm,” said BMC deputy commissioner Subhendu Sahu. The BMC officials said they would decide on where to use drones next. “Whether it is used in markets, residential areas, slums or other places will be decided after a meeting with the technical staff of the BSCL, who will be operating the drones,” a BMC officer said. The drone-mounted disinfectant is likely to be sprayed at night. The drone facility will supplement the disinfectant spraying being carried out jointly by the BMC sanitation team and the state fire service personnel. Several metro cities in the country have also started using drones for disinfection.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhubaneswar/city-agencies-air-spray-disinfectant-using-drones/articleshow/75146777.cms||---
April 15, 2020||Pune||Driver of milk van arrested in Katraj ghat section for transporting beer||Pune: The driver of a milk van was arrested on Monday night for illegally ferrying beer boxes in his vehicle, while three others were taken into custody for selling liquor.The Bharati Vidyapeeth traffic police late on Monday night intercepted the milk van in the Katraj ghat section and seized boxes of beer bottles worth Rs29,000. Inspector Krishna Indalkar said around 11pm on Monday his team stopped the milk van at the checkpoint. “The police became suspicious as the driver was not answering to their questions properly,” he said. The police then checked the van and found 12 boxes of beer hidden behind milk trays. “We have arrested the driver and handed him over to the Bharati Vidyapeeth police for further probe,” Indalkar said.30-year-old in netThe Pimpri Chinchwad crime branch late on Monday night arrested a 30-year-old man while he was selling liquor. The suspect possessing an identity card of a local magazine was found with 14 bottles of liquor worth Rs14,000. “He was selling liquor along the road at Tathawade Chowk,” said an officer from the crime branch.Two held in DaundThe Daund police on Monday arrested two men selling beer to their acquaintances during the lockdown. The police recovered beer worth Rs40,000 from the duo. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/driver-of-milk-van-arrested-in-katraj-ghat-section-for-transporting-beer/articleshow/75149769.cms||---
April 15, 2020||Bhopal||127 cases in a day, MP’s tally shoots to 741||BHOPAL: Madhya Pradesh recorded a whopping 127 Covid-19 cases in just 24 hours, taking its tally to 741 on Tuesday. It’s the first time in MP that the daily count shot past 100 since the outbreak began on March 20. With three more deaths during the day, MP’s toll is now 53 — nearly as many as Delhi and Gujarat taken together. Indore, again, accounted for the bulk of the new cases – 98 in all. It count now stands at 427. Bhopal has 18 more corona patients, taking its tally to 158. Tikamgarh is the latest addition to MP’s covid map. As many as 24 districts now have coronavirus patients, but Indore and Bhopal account for over 80% of them. With a new positive case reported from Tikamgarh district, till date no positive cases were reported from there, a total of 24 districts or nearly half of the state is affected from corona infection, but close to 80% of the total cases are from Indore and Bhopal. ACS health Muhammed Suleman said, “Even the lone positive case in Tikamgarh had gone there from Indore.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/127-cases-in-a-day-mps-tally-shoots-to-741/articleshow/75149391.cms||---
April 15, 2020||Pune||Pune: Doorstep delivery attempt at societies||PUNE: The Haveli and Lonikand police have chalked out an elaborate plan to ensure supply of vegetables, foodgrain and essential items to housing societies in the fringe areas for the next fortnight. The Haveli police are focusing on areas such as Dhayari, Nanded, Kirkitwadi and some parts of Narhe. The Lonikand police, on the other hand, are drawing the plan for Wagholi and its surrounding areas Inspector Ashok Shelke of the Haveli police station told TOI that villages such as Dhayari and Nanded developed in the past 10-15 years. “Many highrises have have come up in these areas. The residents of these societies will not be allowed to venture out. They will get vegetables at the society gates,” he said. Police officers conducted meetings with the local vegetable vendors and the village heads on Sunday. “The village heads allowed the vendors to function at the entrance of the societies. The vendors agreed to shift their current base,” Shelke said. The police also had discussions with the presidents and chairpersons of these societies and the latter agreed to allow the vendors to set up stalls near the entrance of the buildings, he said. The Lonikand police are functioning on the same lines and have contacted local vegetable, grain vendors and the local politicians. The police officers and gram panchayat officials are painting boxes near the entrance gates of the societies for the residents to wait for their turn to buy the essential items in accordance with the social distancing norms. Tejas Chavan, chairman of a society in Dhayari, said many residents were worried about possible overpricing of essential items.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/doorstep-delivery-attempt-at-societies/articleshow/75149388.cms||---
April 15, 2020||Pune||Excise minister rules out liquor sale in Maharashtra for now||PUNE: There are no “cheers” in sight for tipplers. Shutters of liquor shops in the state are unlikely to go up anytime soon. Dilip Walse-Patil, the state minister of excise and labour, told TOI on Tuesday that there were no plans of partial or full reopening of liquor shops in Maharashtra as of now. He said, according to the Union government’s guidelines, liquor was not among the items excluded from lockdown. He also clarified that there was no proposal from the state to start home delivery of liquor. The reopening of liquor shops in Assam and Meghalaya, and the contemplation in some other states on partial reopening of alcohol stores gave a ray of hope to the tipplers in Maharashtra. “While some states have decided to reopen liquor shops, there are no such plans in Maharashtra as of now. When the Union government issued guidelines on the lockdown in the country, liquor was not included in the list of items to be exempted. Hence, as of now, we have no plans to restart liquor shops or start home delivery of alcohol,” Walse-Patil said. Amrit Kiran Singh, the executive chairman of the International Spirits and Wines Association, said, “We have spoken to the Union government, highlighting key points on why liquor shops should be reopened in a phased manner. The Food Safety and Standards Act, 2006, classifies alcohol as food, and food is an essential commodity. Second, the complete shutdown of liquor stores has led to a scenario of black-marketing of alcohol and spurt in sales of spurious liquor like hooch. Third, about 20-30% of the state’s revenue comes from the excise department’s liquor sales. This revenue is needed to provide succour to citizens in the time of the Covid-19 pandemic.” The minister said, “There is a spurt in Covid-19 cases in Maharashtra. So, it would be wrong to talk about reopening liquor stores here as of now.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/excise-minister-rules-out-liquor-sale-in-state-for-now/articleshow/75149767.cms||Neha Madaan
April 15, 2020||Cuttack||Drones carry out aerial surveillance||BHUBANESWAR: The Satya Nagar, Bomikhal and Surya Nagar containment zones here have come under drone surveillance as the commissionerate police on Tuesday started conducting aerial patrolling for proper enforcement of the Covid-19 lockdown. One drone was deployed in each of the localities that were declared as containment zones by the Bhubaneswar Municipal Corporation (BMC) following detection of some Covid-19 patients recently. “Since our personnel cannot enter the restricted zones for patrolling, we took the use of technology (drone) to keep an eye on the lockdown violators. Initially, we mobilized only one drone for each area, but we will add more. Our control room will monitor the aerial surveillance and take strict action against violators,” said commissioner of police Sudhanshu Sarangi. Each drone is equipped with a sound system that can issue a warning to people not to step out of their houses. “We have ensured that the drone cameras capture high-resolution pictures,” Sarangi said. Sources said over 15,000 people live in the three Covid-19 hotspot zones in Bhubaneswar. At least 18 positive cases were detected in Bomikhal, eight in Surya Nagar and four in Satya Nagar. As PM Narendra Modi on Tuesday asked states to adopt stricter approach for enforcement of the second phase of the lockdown till May 3, police are planning to engage drones in non-containment zones as well. “We are trying to hire more drones so that we can cover areas where lockdown violation is rampant. The drones can also keep tabs on shopkeepers selling essential commodities,” another officer said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/cuttack/drones-carry-out-aerial-surveillance/articleshow/75156846.cms||Debabrata Mohapatra
April 15, 2020||Bhubaneswar||Drones carry out aerial surveillance||BHUBANESWAR: The Satya Nagar, Bomikhal and Surya Nagar containment zones here have come under drone surveillance as the commissionerate police on Tuesday started conducting aerial patrolling for proper enforcement of the Covid-19 lockdown. One drone was deployed in each of the localities that were declared as containment zones by the Bhubaneswar Municipal Corporation (BMC) following detection of some Covid-19 patients recently. “Since our personnel cannot enter the restricted zones for patrolling, we took the use of technology (drone) to keep an eye on the lockdown violators. Initially, we mobilized only one drone for each area, but we will add more. Our control room will monitor the aerial surveillance and take strict action against violators,” said commissioner of police Sudhanshu Sarangi. Each drone is equipped with a sound system that can issue a warning to people not to step out of their houses. “We have ensured that the drone cameras capture high-resolution pictures,” Sarangi said. Sources said over 15,000 people live in the three Covid-19 hotspot zones in Bhubaneswar. At least 18 positive cases were detected in Bomikhal, eight in Surya Nagar and four in Satya Nagar. As PM Narendra Modi on Tuesday asked states to adopt stricter approach for enforcement of the second phase of the lockdown till May 3, police are planning to engage drones in non-containment zones as well. “We are trying to hire more drones so that we can cover areas where lockdown violation is rampant. The drones can also keep tabs on shopkeepers selling essential commodities,” another officer said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhubaneswar/drones-carry-out-aerial-surveillance/articleshow/75146782.cms||Debabrata Mohapatra
April 15, 2020||Pune||Brazilian exchange pupils bid adieu to local hosts in Pune||PUNE: Beatriz Teixeira, a 17-year-old student from Brazil, hugged her ‘aai’ Neeta Wawge goodbye minutes before boarding the bus that would take her and a group of seven other students to Mumbai. From airport in the state capital, a special flight would finally whisk the group off to their home country. The Brazilian students arrived in India in August 2019 as part of the Rotary Youth Exchange programme for students in secondary school. The teenaged students were enrolled at the Revachand Bhojwani Junior College in Camp but the year-long programme was cut short due to the coronavirus outbreak. The government of Brazil arranged for an emergency flight to evacuate all its citizens stranded in India. The students were quite heartbroken as they said goodbye to their host families. Their hosts had helped them soak in the local culture over the last eight months. Shirish Puranik, who hosted Beatriz and Lauren Cardia, at his home for three months, said, “My wife and I will miss both girls. We took them to the Peth areas so they could try the local delicacies and shop at Tulshibaug. Beatriz and Lauren bought bindis and incense sticks as gifts for their friends back home.” While the students were relieved to be headed home, they were disheartened at leaving the programme midway and departing from their host families. “We will miss Indian food a lot, especially the street food like pani puri, vada pav and bhel,” said Matheus Oliveira, one of the students. Lauren added, “I will cherish the memories of our visit to the Taj Mahal as well as our long drives around Pune. I’ll never forget the pristine Panshet backwaters.” The programme is designed in a way that it gives participants an opportunity to soak in the experience of living locally. “We took them to the Ganapati procession and they were able to observe traditional Maharashtrian celebrations like Bhondla, Mangla Gaur and Munj to understand Indian culture,” said Manisha Puranik, one of the local hosts. Early on Wednesday morning, the emergency flight will take off from Mumbai airport with the students safely tucked in. The youngsters are, however, hopeful that they get a chance to come back to India and complete their journey once the situation is under control.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/brazilian-exchange-pupils-bid-adieu-to-local-hosts/articleshow/75149398.cms||Aditya Waikul
April 15, 2020||Hubballi||Migrant workers to stay put wherever they are: Shettar||Dharwad: Workers who migrated to other states will have to continue to stay put wherever they are till the lockdown is over, said large and medium industries minister Jagadish Shettar. Chairing a meeting of officials to review the implementation of lockdown in Dharwad district here on Tuesday, Shettar said the state government is coordinating with other states to ensure that migrants from Karnataka are supplied food, shelter, clothing, medical assistance and other essential commodities and services. Shettar, who is also in charge of Dharwad and Belagavi districts, said the administration is taking steps to supply essential commodities to people’s doorsteps. Noting that many private doctors are not opening their clinics, Shettar said the health department should take steps to get KPEM-registered doctors to start their clinics.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hubballi/migrant-workers-to-stay-put-wherever-they-are-shettar/articleshow/75143563.cms||---
April 15, 2020||Nashik||Maharashtra: Deolali MLA uses LAD fund to distribute masks and sanitiser||NASHIK: Deolali MLA Saroj Ahire has used her local area development (LAD) fund for buying and distributing masks and sanitiser in nine government hospitals and primary health care (PHC) units that fall in her area. Ahire has used Rs 22 lakh of the Rs 50 lakh LAD fund that she has received. “The outbreak of Covid-19 has wreaked havoc for many and it was high time to provide priority items like masks and sanitiser to our hospitals that are fighting strong against the pandemic,” she said. Around 10,000 three-layered face masks, 500 litre of sanitiser, one nebuliser and one VP digital apparatus was given to each of the nine hospitals in Deolali area. “The masks and sanitiser have been given for the health care, cleaning and other supporting staff of the hospitals and PHCs. We had requested the district collector for arrange for the masks and sanitiser and he did the needful,” Ahire said. “The stock will last for at least three months. Other necessary items will also be provided to the hospital as and when the need arises from the remaining LAD fund,” she added. Hospitals and PHCs in areas like Cantonment Board, Shiwge-Bahula, Dhondegaon, Jategaon, Shinde, Pimpri Sayyed, Lehvit, Bhagur and Girnare were provided with the priority items. Ajay Kumar, CEO of Cantonment Board Deolali, said, “It is a great initiative. The hospitals and PHCs need all the help to combat Covid-19.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/deolali-mla-uses-lad-fund-to-distribute-masks-and-sanitiser/articleshow/75148863.cms||pragya jain
April 15, 2020||Bhopal||All five covid deaths in Bhopal were gas victims||BHOPAL: They survived an unseen killer, only to be felled by another 36 years later. All five Bhopalis who have died of Covid-19 were gas tragedy victims. In a twist of fate, they couldn’t even step into BMHRC — the hospital meant for gas tragedy victims – because it had been taken over by the state government as a dedicated Covid-19 facility. All five died in private hospitals while BMHRC has not a single patient – covid or otherwise. The latest to die was 73-year-old Ashfaq Nadvi on Tuesday. He, too, belonged to Jehangirabad locality, as did the third and fourth victims -- Imran and Rajkumar Yadav. The first gas victim to die of coronavirus in Bhopal was 55-year-old Naresh Khatik on April 7. He had lifelong respiratory disorder due to exposure to the killer gas, so did the second victim, Jagannath Maithil, 77. They lived in Ibrahimpura and Chowki Imambada. These two localities and Jehangirabad have a high percentage of gas tragedy survivors. Following Yadav’s death in on Monday, the district administration began sanitizing all of Jehangirabad and screening 50,000 to 60,000 residents of the area on Tuesday. Sanitisation was on when news came of Nadvi’s death. “We kept reminding the state government and the district administration to pay special attention to gas victims as hundreds of them already have lung and kidney ailments. Many have cancer, diabetes and heart problems, but no one paid us any heed. You can now see what is happening,” said Rachna Dhingra of Bhopal Group for Information & Action, an NGO working among survivors of gas disaster. BMHRCActivist wrote to Centre in protestBMHRC would now have 40 beds for Covid patients and those in need of specialised treatment like ventilators would be referred to Chirayu medical college. Earlier, the state government through an order dated March 23 had notified BMHRC into a dedicated Covid-19 treatment centre. In the last two weeks, four of the five people who tested positive for Covid-19 and died, were linked to being victims of the gas disaster. BMHRC provides free treatment for people affected from the gas leak of 1984. The 350-bedded BMHRC, which became functional in 2000, was specially built for the gas victims at the direction of the Supreme Court to provide the 500,000 gas victims the best possible medical treatment, said N D Jayapraksh in a memorandum on to government. He is convenor of Bhopal Gas Peedith Sangharsh Sahayog Samiti . In a letter to the state government on March 23, Jayapraksh had demanded Union government to overturn the said decision of the government of MP. “Not because we are in any way trying to undermine the threat of corona virus. On the contrary, we are shocked by the complete insensitivity displayed by the government to the health needs and wellbeing of the Bhopal gas victims since they constitute the most vulnerable section of the Bhopal population at risk of Covid infection, he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/all-five-covid-deaths-in-bhopal-were-gas-victims/articleshow/75149405.cms||---
April 15, 2020||Pune||This civic employee’s primary aim is to maintain water flow||Pune: For Sanjeev Dhamdhere, a supervisor with the Pune Municipal Corporation’s water supply department, life has not been the same since the Covid-19 outbreak last month. Dhamdhere’s job is to solve water supply problems faced by citizens. The outbreak has placed a number of hurdles in the path for Dhamdhere, whose job is among the most important — ensuring that citizens get water. These hurdles include non-availability of labour, closed hardware stores and a reduction in civic manpower, apart from being treated with hostility by citizens .“We have set up field teams for pipeline repairs and other work. Though the number of calls have gone down marginally, we have to be on our toes always,” Dhamdhere said.He said they were working in shifts — with an alternate-day timetable — to manage the workload. But due to the lockdown orders, those working in the field need to start from home early. So there is hardly any relief from work-related pressure,” he said. “Repairs cannot be postponed; saying no to citizens is not an option. We manage by running from pillar to post to get materials,” he said. He urged the authorities to include plumbing material in the essential services bracket. Many water-related works and repairs are pending due to non availability of even basic material,” he said. Regular complaints include non-availability of water, breakage of pipelines and repairs to water-supply valves. “The biggest worry is a lack of plumbing material. The old stock with PMC has already been used for public works,” he said. “Water supply and its maintenance are essential. Some plumbing and hardware shops should be allowed how to operate,” Santosh Lanjekar, section engineer of PMC, said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/this-civic-employees-primary-aim-is-to-maintain-water-flow/articleshow/75149404.cms||---
April 15, 2020||Nashik||Police caution citizens against online fraudsters||NASHIK: The city police have cautioned residents against falling prey to messages that promise delivery of non-essential items —including liquor — as the government has not granted permission for delivery or online trade of such goods. Only essential services are allowed to function in the district. The police said everyone should exercise caution as fraudsters — on the pretext of delivering items following online payments — may collect confidential bank information and cheat people of their money. In a release, the police said the lockdown is in force across the country. However, online fraudsters are trying to take advantage of the situation. The cops said that many people were trying to source liquor by any means possible, including purchasing alcohol at increased prices. The police have also noticed that some fake websites, in the name of leading liquor stores, have started operations by displaying their cellphone numbers. People could fall into this trap and make online payments thinking they can procure liquor from these websites. The fraudsters could ask people to make payments on the cellphone number’s UPI and subsequently not deliver the promised goods. They could also steal important bank account information. The police said that in other cities, there have been cases of shopkeepers getting cheated by fraudsters. The fraudsters, on the pretext of purchasing articles, send a list on the shopkeepers’ Whatsapp numbers. Later, during the payment process, they trick the shopkeepers into giving out confidential information about their e-wallets. The police have appealed to the citizens to remain alert.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/police-caution-citizens-against-online-fraudsters/articleshow/75148877.cms||---
April 15, 2020||Nagpur||Five arrested for selling, buying sanitizers as liquor ‘substitute’||NAGPUR: One Ashu Gupta, who was selling sanitizers by claiming they contained alcohol and could be used as a substitute to get the kicks, was arrested by Shanti Nagar police. His four customers, Akash Gupta, Sushil Shahar, Sheikh Ashpak and Ayaz Ali, too, were arrested. After questioning by the patrolling cops, Ashu spilled the beans. He said he was selling sanitizers as a substitute for liquor and that the four persons around him had come to buy them. Ashu had also hidden sanitizers at his house. Around 46 bottles of sanitizers, named Royal Alcohol Hand Rub, and two bottles of country made liquor in all worth Rs4,340 were seized. It is learnt that every bottle contained 90ml of the sanitizer. He was selling it for Rs200 per piece. The accused has been booked under sections of the Maharashtra Prohibition and Disaster Management Act.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/five-arrested-for-selling-buying-sanitizers-as-liquor-substitute/articleshow/75149416.cms||Viraj Deshpande
April 15, 2020||Nashik||6,500 get permission from police for travel in 3 weeks||NASHIK: Police have appealed to people to seek permission for travel in the city only in case of emergencies and revealed that they have given permission to more than 6,500 citizens in the last three weeks. Police have set up Covid-19 assistance cell at the commissionerate level on March 24 to help citizens in need of emergency travel in view of the lockdown due to coronavirus pandemic. Those residing in Deolali Camp and Nashik Road can contact police on 7020583176 and 8485810477. For Indiranagar, Upnagar and Satpur areas, people can contact on 7248906877 and 9403165140. Those residing in the Panchavati and Adgaon areas can seek help on 7709295534, 7248903877. People living in the Mhasrool, Bhadrakali and Ambad areas can contact on 9373800019 and 7350166999. For communicating with the central government offices, people have been asked to call on 8378966754. Police have appealed to citizens to contact the above-mentioned numbers only if there is an emergency or if they are involved in essential services defined by the government. The applicants need to provide details such as the nature and purpose of travel, the starting and end point and relevant documents. Senior police officials said the use of vehicles has been banned in the city in view of the lockdown. However, personnel of the health department, police and other essential services will continue to work. Those under the essential services category will not face any kind of hassle while moving in the city, said police. They can contact police on the given numbers if they face any problem. The ambulance service is also available during the lockdown. Police said that their assistance cell will continue to function till the extended lock period of May 3.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/6500-get-permission-from-police-for-travel-in-3-weeks/articleshow/75148909.cms||Santosh Sonawane
April 15, 2020||Hyderabad||Telangana: 76 lakh ration card holders get Rs 1,500 each||HYDERABAD: Crediting of Rs 1,500 each into the 76 lakh bank accounts of white ration cards was completed on Wednesday. Chief minister K Chandrasekhar Rao had announced that Rs 1,500 will be given to each of the white ration card holders as financial assistance during the lockdown period. The crediting of assistance began on Monday with over 10 lakh accounts being given money. State Level Bankers’ Committee (SLBC) officials confirmed that over Rs 1,112 crore was credited into the accounts. Crediting was done in a phased manner as there was a heavy load on National Payment Corporation of India (NPCI) gateway. The amount given by state government will go through NPCI first as it is Aadhaar-linked and then it is sent to beneficiary accounts. There are about 82 lakh white ration card holders in the state. The state government has announced that 12 kg rice will be given to every ration card holder. A total of Rs 2,000 crore will be spent by the government towards this programme. MAUD minister KT Rama Rao said that more than 87% of free rice distribution was already completed for over 76 lakh cardholders. He tweeted that more than three lakh tonnes of rice was distributed successfully.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/76-lakh-ration-card-holders-get-rs-1-5k-each/articleshow/75149411.cms||---
April 15, 2020||Nashik||Dist admin all geared up to prevent new Covid-19 hotspots||Nashik: With an aim to get some relaxation from the lockdown, senior officials from across the district are working overtime to contain the spread of Covid-19 and ensure there are no new hotspots. On Tuesday, while addressing the nation, Prime Minister Narendra Modi said that areas that show good record and there is no increase in the number of Covid 19 patients would be given relaxation from the lockdown to resume activities after April 20. A senior district administration official said that thousands of health workers and medical officers are working to trace Covid-19 patients and bring them immediately under treatment. Leena Bansod, CEO of Nashik zilla parishad, said the Nashik Municipal Corporation, Malegaon Municipal Corporation and rural parts of the districts are treated separately in the assessment for Covid-19. "Thus, some areas could get relaxation from the lockdown. We are working hard to trace people with travel history and those who may have come in contact with positive Covid-19 patients. Other measures taken are to get the suspect patients quarantined and tested at the earliest so that chances of spreading the disease are prevented," she said. The Nashik Municipal Corporation (NMC) has already started taking various measures to prevent new hotspots of Covid-19 in the city. "We are keeping a close eye on those coming into the city from Malegaon, which is the most Covid-19 affected areas in the district. Such people are immediately sent to institutional quarantine," a civic official said. Moreover, the civic body has also made a group of home-quarantined people and is taking regular update from them. "We are taking measures to ensure that there are no new hotspot in the city. We are taking all preventive measures to curb spread of Covid-19," the official said. The NMC has also formed teams of health officials, doctors, nurses and Asha workers to conduct door-to-door survey across the city. A door-to-door survey is also being carried out in three hotspot areas of the city. A total of three people from Nashik city, belonging to different areas, have tested positive for Covid-19. The civic body has sealed all the the three areas — Govind Nagar, Anandvalli on Gangapur Road and Rajlaxmi lawns on Nashik Road — for 14 days as a precautionary measure. Until Tuesday morning (April 14), the district had reported 36 patients suffering from Covid-19 with the maximum (30 cases) from Malegaon. So far, the death toll of the district stands at 2. District collector Suraj Mandhare said, "There is no community spread of the disease in the district. Earlier, positive patients were either from family or close contacts of the positive patients. If social distancing is observed, we can prevent the spread of Covid-19."||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/dist-admin-all-geared-up-to-prevent-new-covid-19-hotspots/articleshow/75148923.cms||Tushar Pawar
April 15, 2020||Aurangabad||Coronavirus death: 68-year-old becomes Aurangabad’s 2nd casualty||AURANGABAD: A 68-year-old resident of Aref Colony, father of 38-year-old confirmed Covid-19 patient, died while undergoing treatment at the Government Medical College and Hospital (GMCH) on Tuesday afternoon. The elderly man had first tested negative for the virus on April 9 before testing positive for the contagion on April 13. District civil surgeon Sundar Kulkarni said the patient was admitted to the district civil hospital on March 30 along with his 38-year-old son, who is an IT engineer in Pune. Both their throat swabs were collected and sent for Covid-19 analysis. In the report that came on April 2, the son tested positive though the father was negative. “We tested the 68-year-old man for Covid-19 twice, and he tested negative both times. Since the civil hospital is dedicated for Covid-19 patients, we moved him to the GMCH on April 8,” Kulkarni said. Meenakshi Bhattacharya, the GMCH head of the department of medicine, stated in a release that the patient had started experiencing cough, fever, sore throat, difficulty in breathing and other complaints on April 3. “He was transferred from district civil hospital to GMCH on April 8. As his condition was deteriorating, despite appropriate treatment at the GMCH, the patient was tested for Covid-19 again on April 8, and his result came back negative April 9. However, his condition worsened. So his throat swab was tested again on April 11. The result came positive this time on April 13,” Bhattacharya said in the release. She added in view of the patient’s critical condition, he was kept on ventilator support since April 11. “The patient died while undergoing treatment at 1.15 pm on Tuesday due to acute respiratory distress with acute kidney injury with Covid-19,” Bhattacharya stated. The son, meanwhile, continues to be under treatment at the district civil hospital. The family’s 43-year-old house help and her 11-year-old daughter, who too were detected with Covid-19, are also under treatment at the district civil hospital. This is the second death of a confirmed Covid-19 patient in Aurangabad and whole of Marathwada. Earlier, on March 5, a 58-year-old resident of Satara had died while undergoing treatment at the GMCH. The cause of his death, as told by GMCH dean Kanan Yelikar, was acute respiratory distress syndrome due to Covid-19, bilateral pneumonitis in a known case of diabetes with hypertension and ischemic heart disease. Meanwhile, of the 24 patients, who had been detected with Covid-19 in the city, a 59-year-old woman has recovered, two have succumbed, 20 are under treatment at the district civil hospital and one at a private hospital.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/68-yr-old-becomes-citys-2nd-casualty/articleshow/75148926.cms||Arpita Sharad
April 15, 2020||India||Elgar case: Navlakha, Teltumbde surrender||MUMBAI: Human rights activist and scholar Anand Teltumbde, an accused in the Elgar Parishad case, was arrested on Tuesday by NIA after he surrendered at its Mumbai office. He was remanded in NIA custody by a special court till April 18. Activist and co accused Gautam Navlakha surrendered before NIA in Delhi. He will be produced before a court on Wednesday. Their anticipatory bail pleas were rejected by the Supreme Court on March 16 and they were directed to surrender. Accompanied by wife Rama and brother-in-law Prakash Ambedkar, Teltumbde, 70, arrived at the NIA office on Peddar Road at around 1.30pm. Rama and Ambedkar are the grandchildren of Dr Babasaheb Ambedkar, and the entourage came to the office from Rajgruha, Ambedkar’s house. A black flag was hoisted at the building before Teltumbde left on Tuesday, the 129th birth anniversary of Babasaheb Ambedkar. Seeking 10-day custody of Teltumbde, special public prosecutor Prakash Shetty claimed that investigations had revealed that he had links with the Communist Party of India (Maoist), a banned terrorist organisation, and had received funds from its central committee. The NIA also claimed that documentary evidence revealed that Teltumbde was the convenor of Elgar Parishad, an event that took place at Pune on December 31, 2017. The investigating agency alleged that the speeches made there led to the violence at Bhima Koregaon on January 1, 2018. “It is revealed that there is conspiracy hatched by the accused who promoted enmity between the caste groups and led to violence resulting in the loss of life and statewide agitation,” the remand plea said. The NIA added that Teltumbde’s call data records showed he was in contact with the arrested accused as well as present at the place of offence at the relevant period. Nine activists --- Sudhir Dhawale, Rona Wilson, Surendra Gadling, Mahesh Raut, Shoma Sen, Arun Ferreira, Vernon Gonsalves, Sudha Bharadwaj and Varavara Rao --- were arrested in the case. The NIA said it hadn’t got a chance to interrogate Teltumbde as he had procured various interim protection orders from the courts. It sought the court’s permission to use handcuffs on Teltumbde to help avoid physical contact with him amid the Covid-19 pandemic. In a letter to the NIA, Teltumbde’s lawyer Maharukh Adenwala had requested against immediate arrest in light of the pandemic. His passport had been surrendered and he was willing to attend the NIA office when the need arose, it said, pointing out Teltumbde’s age and that he was a chronic bronchitis asthma patient and also suffered from cervical spondylitis. The letter sought a chair and bed for him while in custody to prevent his condition from aggravating.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/elgar-case-navlakha-teltumbde-surrender/articleshow/75150068.cms||Rebecca Samervel
April 15, 2020||Hubballi||Scholars, writers pay digital tribute to Ambedkar on birth anniversary||Hubballi: As Ambedkarites across the country marked their respect and celebrated 129th birth anniversary of B R Ambedkar on April 14 in novel ways in times of coronavirus, a group of scholars and writers read of chapters from Ambedkar volumes published by Kannada and culture department and initiated discussions reaching out to over 5,000 Facebook users. Arun Joladkudligi, a postdoctoral fellow at Kannada University, Hampi, who pitched the idea of holding the ‘Ambedkar Odu Abhiyan’ in Kannada, told TOI that planning for the session was on from April 4. “We had an open invitation for people to sign up for the session between 10am to 4.30pm. The response was huge and the invitation had to be closed within 90 minutes and only first 41 readers could be selected.” Readers were from different backgrounds — post-graduate students, theatre persons, teachers, journalists from almost all districts of the state among others. We had asked them to chose any chapter from the 22 volumes of Ambedkar’s speeches, articles, question-answers, his autobiography, published by the Kannada and culture department. We formed a WhatsApp group of these 41 readers to communicate with them. We gave 10-minutes slot to each reader and the schedule was allotted in advance. We also provided books of said volumes in PDF format.” “However, after it began, several more Ambedkarites reached out to us to participate in the session and we suggested them to read any chapter of the said 22 volumes on Facebook using our hashtag. By the end of the day over 5,000 people took part in the session on Facebook,” he explained. “I was worried that I would miss Ambedkar Jayanti celebrations this year due to the lockdown, but when I saw this invitation 10 days ago, I immediately registered my name,” said Praveen, a writer and life coach from Belagavi. Purushottama Bilimale, Kannada professor, JNU, Delhi, who joined the reading session, described it as a meaningful tribute to Ambedkar. “This reading session was very relevant in the current scenario,” he added. Joladkudligi said all readings will be compiled and made available on Facebook, WhatsApp and YouTube soon.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hubballi/scholars-writers-pay-digital-tribute-to-ambedkar-on-birth-anniversary/articleshow/75147815.cms||Sangamesh Menasinakai
April 15, 2020||Ranchi||7 RPF jawans hop on goods trains to reach Ranchi, probe on||Ranchi: Ranchi divisional railway manager Neeraj Ambasht on Tuesday said a probe has been ordered to find out how seven RPF jawans flouted lockdown orders and travelled from New Delhi to Ranchi on goods and parcel trains unnoticed. The jawans, posted at the Ranchi division, were at their homes in Rajasthan after availing their entitled leaves before the nationwide lockdown was imposed on March 23. Despite being asked to join duties in divisions closest to their homes, they went to New Delhi and boarded a Kolkata-bound goods train last week. Ambasht said, “They came in the brake van of the goods train and then boarded the special parcel train to reach Ranchi. Upon their arrival, they were taken to Rajendra Institute of Medical Sciences (Rims) for screening on Sunday evening. They have been shifted to the quarantine facility set up by the railways.” He further said, “The divisional railway commandant has been asked to initiate a probe into the incident and file a report by Wednesday evening. Disciplinary action, if any, will be taken after the report comes to us.” None of the jawans showed any symptoms of coronavirus, but the division is monitoring their health and those of the parcel van’s staff (loco pilots and guards), Ambasht added. The incident has raised several questions on the safety measures being put in place by the railways. Senior officials at divisions have now put up posers like, “On whose permission did the jawans board the goods train?”, “How come they were not seen by any of the railway staff across the states the train passed and none reported it?” and “If the lockdown order prohibits any movement without prior clearance, is it being followed within the railways itself?” Officials at the South Eastern Railways’headquarters in Kolkata were not available for comments to these queries.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/7-rpf-jawans-hop-on-goods-trains-to-reach-ranchi-probe-on/articleshow/75147414.cms||---
April 15, 2020||Ranchi||Identify land for last rites of Covid patients: Banna to districts||JAMSHEDPUR: State health minister Banna Gupta on Tuesday directed all the deputy commissioners (DCs) to identify land in their respective jurisdictions where Covid-19 casualties can be either cremated or buried. The move comes after protests erupted in Ranchi when the administration tried to bury the body of a 60-year-old Hindpiri man who died of coronavirus on Sunday. Banna said, “I have asked all the districts to identify land for cremation and burial and have also asked the administrations to keep separate ambulances to ferry deceased Covid-19 victims. Once the land are identified, it will be the first-of-its-kinds in the country.” Banna agreed that finding land for setting up a separate burial/cremation ground is not easy, but said, “Where there is a will, there is way. There are lots of land outside towns and villages which are barren and can be used for this purpose.” He added, “Steps are also being taken to create separate mortuaries for keeping bodies of Covid-19 casualties.” The minister also said that Jharkhand is not a very rich state, but these steps will help in the fight the virus and other states can also follow them. Answering to whether funds will be made available for these steps as withdrawals from the state coffers have been stopped, Banna said, “Funds will be channelized from the disaster management department.” Banna, who is heading the four-member state cabinet team formed to assist chief minister Hemant Soren to handle the crisis, expressed confidence that these initiatives will receive the cabinet’s nod too.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/identify-land-for-last-rites-of-covid-patients-banna-to-districts/articleshow/75147594.cms||---
April 15, 2020||Jamshedpur||Identify land for last rites of Covid patients: Banna to districts||JAMSHEDPUR: State health minister Banna Gupta on Tuesday directed all the deputy commissioners (DCs) to identify land in their respective jurisdictions where Covid-19 casualties can be either cremated or buried. The move comes after protests erupted in Ranchi when the administration tried to bury the body of a 60-year-old Hindpiri man who died of coronavirus on Sunday. Banna said, “I have asked all the districts to identify land for cremation and burial and have also asked the administrations to keep separate ambulances to ferry deceased Covid-19 victims. Once the land are identified, it will be the first-of-its-kinds in the country.” Banna agreed that finding land for setting up a separate burial/cremation ground is not easy, but said, “Where there is a will, there is way. There are lots of land outside towns and villages which are barren and can be used for this purpose.” He added, “Steps are also being taken to create separate mortuaries for keeping bodies of Covid-19 casualties.” The minister also said that Jharkhand is not a very rich state, but these steps will help in the fight the virus and other states can also follow them. Answering to whether funds will be made available for these steps as withdrawals from the state coffers have been stopped, Banna said, “Funds will be channelized from the disaster management department.” Banna, who is heading the four-member state cabinet team formed to assist chief minister Hemant Soren to handle the crisis, expressed confidence that these initiatives will receive the cabinet’s nod too.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jamshedpur/identify-land-for-last-rites-of-covid-patients-banna-to-districts/articleshow/75151896.cms||Debasish Chatterjee
April 15, 2020||Ranchi||Inmates at Palamu, Ghatshila isolation centres protest delay in their release||Daltonganj: With Prime Minister Narendra Modi announcing an extension of the lockdown till May 3, asking all to stay put wherever they are, ruckus erupted in at least two isolation centres in the state as the inmates grew anxious over the delay in their release even after completion of the stipulated period of quarantine. At the Kowwa Khoh quarantine centre in Chhaterpur sub-division of Palamu, which houses over 100 labourers from Garhwa and Latehar districts, frustration ran high as the doctors have declared all of them fit, but they can’t leave due to extension of the lockdown. Chhaterpur SDPO Shambhu Kumar Singh said, “Frustration and anger have gripped the labourers who are not ready to spend even an hour extra at the institutional quarantine centre after completing their 14-day period. Doctors, too, have declared them fit.” Palamu SP Ajay Linda conceded that the inmates at the quarantine centre are upset over the extension of their stay. “It is time for everyone to make them understand that all good will be done to them,” he said. Sources said the district administration is waiting for directives from the state government as releasing them would involve inter-district movement. A senior government official on condition of anonymity said, “Chief secretary Sukhdev Singh in a video conference with DCs and SPs on Monday directed that there should be no inter-district passage of stranded or quarantined labourers at least for a couple of days. Let’s see if safer ways can be explored.” Palamu DC Shantanu Kumar Agrahari said, “We are working on this issue and are in touch with the state government to find a way out of such problems.” A similar situation prevailed at the isolation centre in Ghatshila sub-division’s Galudih which hosts over 90 labourers. After the PM’s announcement, the inmates of the centre created a ruckus and demanded their release after completion of their 14-day isolation. Several inmates also reportedly skipped meals and threatened to sit on an indefinite fast if they are not released. The BDO of the area informed, “The inmates at the centre completed their quarantine period on April 11. Hence, they are now demanding immediate release. We have informed the DC (Ravi Shankar Shukla) about the development and are awaiting his orders.” The BDO added that many of the inmates are natives of Garhwa and Palamu districts. “They were brought here on March 30 after they were caught at the Baharagora inter-state check post while they returning to their hometowns in a truck from Odisha.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/inmates-at-palamu-ghatshila-isolation-centres-protest-delay-in-their-release/articleshow/75147446.cms||MF Ahmad
April 15, 2020||Ranchi||Wall writings, graffiti in Gumla interiors for awareness of villagers||Gumla: To create awareness about Covid-19 and the usefulness of the lockdown, Vikas Bharati, a Gumla-based NGO headed by Padmashri Ashok Bhagat, started making graffiti and wall writings. Talking to TOI Bhagat said, “The move is to sensitise the illiterate and the poor who are living in remote areas about the pandemic in an interesting manner. In far flung areas, there are no TVs and mobile network. Hence, wall writings and allied works are a good way to disseminate information.” The NGO’s treasurer Mahendra Bhagat said, “We are writing messages on the importance on social distancing, hygiene, relevance of masks etc., in local languages. Since holding village and panchayat meetings are possible now, wall writing is the the best way to create awareness.” The NGO has also started manufacturing and distributing masks made of khadi among the villagers. On Tuesday, over 500 masks were also handed over to Gumla DC Shashi Ranjan. Mahendra said, “About a dozen locals were trained in sewing under the skill development programme and have been engaged for making khadi masks. We have already distributed masks in remote areas like Amkipani, Tumse, Mol and other villages here.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/wall-writings-graffiti-in-gumla-interiors-for-awareness-of-villagers/articleshow/75147494.cms||---
April 15, 2020||Ranchi||ESL to cut salaries, promises payment after biz normalises||Bokaro: Electrosteel Steels Limited (ESL) of the Vedanta Group, a 1.5 MTPA capacity steel unit in Bokaro’s Chandandakyari block, said it will defer payment up to 25% of the gross salary of its employees, effective April 1, amid an economic slowdown triggered by the nationwide lockdown. In a circular dated April 3, ESL’s chief people officer (CPO) S Venkataraman said, “In view of ongoing uncertainty in the overall business scenario due to Covid-19 and consequential absence of cash inflow, we are constrained to take a decision to defer payment of a portion of our gross take home pay’”. A copy of the circular, which is with TOI, defines the gross take home pay as the gross salary after all statutory deductions. “Reimbursements like travel expenses, medical expenses, if any, will continue to be paid in full,” the circular read. However, the notice further said, “The deducted amount will be paid back once the business normalises and the cash flow situation is eased.” The notification further mentioned that those who draw salaries above Rs 2 lakh per month will see a 25% deduction, the highest. Meanwhile, those with salaries of more than Rs 1 lakh and up to Rs 2 lakh, will get 20% deduction and subsequently, employees earning in between Rs 50,000 and Rs 1 lakh per month will get 15% less from their gross salaries. Employees, who get between Rs 25,000 and Rs 50,000, will have to bear a 10% deduction, while those getting below Rs 25,000 have been excluded from the deductions. An ESL officer on anonymity confirmed the deferment in salaries. He said, “The company is taking other necessary measures to overcome from the situation.” Earlier, as a part of its cost cutting measures, ESL had curtailed production up to 50% by running its facilities with half of its manpower.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/esl-to-cut-salaries-promises-payment-after-biz-normalises/articleshow/75147393.cms||---
April 15, 2020||Ranchi||Hundreds booked for protests against Covid casualty burial in Ranchi||RANCHI: Police on Monday registered two FIRs against more than 760 persons for violating lockdown and protesting against the district authorities’ bid to bury Ranchi’s first Covid-19 casualty in two city localities on Sunday. The FIRs were registered at Khelgaon and Sukhdev Nagar police stations where locals resorted to massive protests to prevent the burial. A total of 17 persons has been named in the two FIRs. The FIR at Khelgaon said, “Over 250 villagers from nearby villages, including Sugnu, Mesra and Dumardaga, started assembling near Jumar river after they saw a news broadcast that the district administration is planning to cremate the body of Covid-19 casualty on the banks of Jumar river. The PCR teams saw more than 250 people assemble near Jumar river, violating social distancing and lockdown orders.” Khelgaon police station in-charge Mukti Narayan Singh said, “Even after repeated requests and announcements, the crowd didn’t budge. We identified 11 persons from nearby villages and filed an FIR against them along with 250 unknown persons for violation of Section 144 of CrPC, the Epidemics Diseases Act and the Disaster management Act.” Protests also broke near the Ratu road burial ground where more than 650 people assembled violating lockdown orders. The FIR filed at Sukhdev Nagar police station in connection with the incident identified six persons while 500 others are unnamed. SP (traffic) Ajit Peter Dungdung said, “We have identified six persons who instigated the locals and called them out for protests against the district administration’s decision of burying the patient at Ratu road burial ground. A few of them also obstructed the public servants in discharging their duties and tried to communalise the issue by raising slogans.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/hundreds-booked-for-protests-against-covid-casualty-burial-in-ranchi/articleshow/75147554.cms||---
April 15, 2020||India||Across India migrants protest, clamour to be allowed to go home||Protests broke out in Mumbai, Hyderabad and Surat soon after Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s announcement of the lockdown extension on Tuesday with hundreds of migrant workers spilling out on the roads demanding that they be sent back to their native states. In two other parts of the country — Rajasthan and Tamil Nadu — migrants took to desperate measures like walking on railway tracks or attempting to travel hundreds of kilometres on bikes to get back to their home states before they were stopped by the administration.  In Mumbai’s Bandra (W) and Mumbra, migrants came out in protest of lockdown extension hours after PM’s announcement. A large contingent of cops arrived at Bandra after people started emerging from the slums near the railway station around 3.45pm. Within minutes, the crowd grew to a few thousand. Police had to use force to disperse the mob which mainly comprised labourers from Bengal, UP and Bihar. Their main grouse was that they have no work and no money to pay rent to slumlords.  Police claimed over 1,500 people had gathered within 10 minutes after rumours spread that trains would start. Late on Tuesday night, DCP Abhishek Trimukhe said an offence has been registered at Bandra police station against 800 to 1,000 unknown accused for unlawful assembly and rioting.  In Mumbra, around 250-300 migrants gathered in Rashid compound area, demanding that they be sent to their home states as they have been deprived of food and other essentials. They returned after being persuaded by senior cops. It's time to mask up and stay safe: Join TOI's #MaskIndia campaign In Surat, nearly 1,000 migrants came out of dwellings in the Varachha area in the evening and blocked an entire street of the densely populated Baroda Pristage locality. Over 50 cops were deployed to bring the situation under control.  Some labourers complained that they are not getting enough food during the lockdown. The fresh protests come just a few days after migrant workers blocked the main roads in Pandesara and Laskana areas of the city and resorted to violence, some of them pelting stones on police vehicles.  In Rajasthan’s Jaisalmer, migrants from UP, MP and Bihar were seen walking railway tracks in their bid to avoid cops deployed on roads. Station masters at small railways stations persuaded them to go back, but many did not relent. In their desperation to return, some labourers are even leaving behind their belongings. More on Covid-19Coronavirus pandemic: Complete Coverage21-day lockdown: What will stay open and what won'tHow to quarantine yourself at homeTrust the newspaper for your daily verified news It was a somewhat similar story in TN’s Tuticorin, where 31 people from Rajasthan — some of whom sell ice-cream, snacks and toys to tourists in Kanyakumari — were caught by cops while returning to their state on 12 motorbikes.  In Hyderabad, 100-odd workers from Andhra’s Srikakulam came out in their bid to walk to their native place, some 800km away. They were intercepted by police. Inputs from V Narayan and Vijay V Singh in Mumbai, Yagnesh Mehta in Surat, Vimal Bhatia in Jaisalmer, Ananth MK in Madurai and Roshan Ali in Hyderabad Watch Mumbai Lockdown: Migrants hit the roads, CM Uddhav Thackeray assures relief||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/across-india-migrants-protest-clamour-to-be-allowed-to-go-home/articleshow/75150087.cms||---
April 15, 2020||India||ICMR for pooled testing in ‘cold spots’||The Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) has issued an advisory on feasibility of using pooled samples for molecular testing for Covid-19 in areas with low prevalence of the viral infection and for community survey. By specifying low prevalence areas, ICMR has indicated that pooling can add another sting to testing strategy but is more effective under certain conditions of low disease prevalence.  The health ministry’s research wing has recommended pooling of samples for real time RT-PCR screening in areas with prevalence of less than 2% positivity rate. Besides, in areas with positivity of 2-5%, sample pooling for PCR screening may be considered only in community survey or surveillance among asymptomatic individuals, strictly excluding individuals with known contact with confirmed cases and healthcare workers in direct contact of patients.  However, the advisory said even low prevalence areas must be watched closely for any increase in positivity of cases. “Number of Covid-19 cases in India is rising exponentially. In view of this, it is critical to increase the numbers of tests conducted by laboratories. Positivity rate in cases is still low. Hence, it may help to use the pooled samples for screening,” the advisory said.  The recommendations are based on a study conducted in King George's University in Lucknow after the Uttar Pradesh government decided on a pilot project. The move is aimed at widening testing to areas beyond hotspots and ensure that no significant number of Covid-19 cases are left out. TOI had on Monday reported that government plans to expand testing on persons with influenza like illness (ILI) in clusters chosen in “cold spots”.  Pooled testing involves PCR screening of a specimen pool comprising multiple individual patient specimens, followed by individual testing (pool de-convolution) only if there is a positive result. As all individual samples in a negative pool are regarded as such, it results in substantial cost savings when a large proportion of pools tests negative.  The advisory is aimed at increasing capacity of the laboratories to screen increased number of samples using molecular testing for Covid-19 for the purpose of surveillance.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/icmr-for-pooled-testing-in-cold-spots/articleshow/75150099.cms||Sushmi Dey
April 15, 2020||Hyderabad||Covid-19 surge continues in Telangana as 52 test positive; one more death||HYDERABAD: One more person died in the state as the Covid-19 surge continued with 52 new positive cases reported on Tuesday, taking the overall tally to 644. While 18 people have died from the deadly virus so far, 110 others have recovered and discharged. The bulletin released by the medical and health department says that 25 districts have dozens of containment zones and a total of three lakh households and 12 lakh people checked for possible symptoms. As the total number of active cases in GHMC area touched 249, RTC managing director Sunil Sharma announced buses would be off the city streets till April 30. The government also deputed 30 deputy medical health officials for Hyderabad district and allotted them areas. "They will take care of Covid-related surveillance and tracking in these circles," an official said. 4 suspected of attending mourning serviceWith surveillance increasing across the city, officials said they would serve a notice on a corporate hospital in Hi-Tec City after one of their nursing staff contracted the virus and a probe revealed that Covid-19 protocol was not followed. In Rangareddy district, among five new cases, four were suspected to have attended a mourning service of a woman who died recently. In one case, a person was in touch with a Covid-19 positive person, who attended the mid-March Tablighi Jamaat event in Delhi. “This is second contact positive. It was also identified that three members of a family in Madinaguda was found to be having close contacts with a person who tested positive after going to the Tablighi Jamaat event from Karimnagar,” an official said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/covid-19-surge-continues-in-telangana-as-52-test-positive-one-more-death/articleshow/75150124.cms||Sribala Vadlapatla
April 15, 2020||Mumbai||Mumbai: No test, only quarantine for asymptomatic contacts||MUMBAI: The BMC has decided not to test asymptomatic contacts of positive patients, but make them stay in quarantine. While high-risk contacts will be stamped on their hands to help officials spot them if they break quarantine rules, pregnant women who are two weeks away from delivery, patients on dialysis or chemotherapy and healthcare workers will be exempted from this rule. The BMC has also decided not to test symptomatic young patients to reduce load on labs for faster turnaround time of tests. These decisions were taken in a virtual meeting attended by BMC chief Praveen Pardeshi, Dr Sanjay Oak , chairman of the task force for patient managem-ent protocol for critically ill Covid-19 patients, and additional municipal commissioners. A civic official said the testing criteria has been changed to align it with the Indian Council of Medical Research guidelines. “Effectively, we will stop testing asymptomatic patients from big clusters. They, however, will continue to remain in quarantine,” said the official. As per the new norms, testing will only be done if the following criteria are met: Symptomatic high-risk contacts of Covid-positives and people over 60 years and those with underlying diseases. Additional municipal commissioner Suresh Kakani said, “We have 200 Covid care centres with 12,000 beds. We can shift asymptomatic patients and suspected cases to these centres.” He said asymptomatic persons will be allowed to stay in quarantine in their homes if they have ‘good toilet facility’ and adequate space. The idea, he said, was to give more priority to critical and moderately ill patients as per Centre guidelines. TOI has learned that the decision was taken after experts found that resources were being wasted in mass testing. “Also, for asymptomatic patients, test results have no bearing on treatment protocol,” she said. An assistant civic chief said many hospital beds were occupied by asymptomatic patients. “Once such patients are shifted to CCDs or home quarantine, more beds will be available for critical patients. This step will thus reduce the death rate.” Another official said they were conducing tests beyond their capacity, which was one of the reasons the reports arrived after two days. “Once we reduce the number of tests, we will get reports on time.” On Tuesday, state public health minister Rajesh Tope announced the setting up of two committees—one will oversee Mumbai’s developments and the other, the rest of the state. The seven-member panel for Mumbai will be headed by former KEM Hospital dean Dr Avinash Supe and comprise KEM head of medicine department Dr Milind Nadkar, Sion Hospital’s ICU head Dr Nitin Karnik, Dr Chaya Rajguru and Dr Vidya Nagar of JJ Hospital, Dr Sadhana Tayde, director of state health services, and Dr Subhash Salunkhe, former director general of the state health department. The panel will investigate and analyse the coronary morbidity and mortality in Mumbai. It will propose measures to reduce the mortality rate accordingly, and guidelines will be issued to hospitals.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/mumbai-no-test-only-quarantine-for-asymptomatic-contacts/articleshow/75150122.cms||Vijay V Singh
April 15, 2020||Vijayawada||Will purchase every grain of paddy: CM||Amaravati: Andhra Pradesh chief minister YS Jaganmohan Reddy has directed district collectors to play a proactive role to bail out farmers from lockdown blues. He asked the collectors to interact with the marketing department officials on a daily basis and see that the agriculture produce, particularly horticulture stocks, are transported from the field to the market.  The CM said that agriculture operations should also be allowed to resume by making the farmers and farm hands follow social distancing norms. The CM, on Tuesday, reviewed the situation with the district collectors and SPs through video conference a little after Prime Minister Narendra Modi extended the lockdown till May, 3. The CM stressed on the measures to be taken to ease the anxiety of farmers in the wake of the continued lockdown. We are asking agriculture assistants to send feedback with facts. Collectors should be accessible to such information and play a proactive role to resolve the grievances of the farmers,” the chief minister said. He said that the transporters were not readily moving to pick up stocks from fields despite permissions being granted for the transport of agriculture goods due to apprehensions. He asked the collectors and SPs to discuss the issue with the transport operators and extend full cooperation for the movement of the agriculture goods. He asked the collectors and SPs to take stringent measures to prevent the movement of paddy from neighbouring states as it would hamper the government’s procurement operation. He said that they were launching paddy procurement right from the farm level for the first time ever. “We will purchase every grain from the farmer right in his field. To ensure transparent procurement, the district collectors should take every possible measure to prevent the movement of paddy from other states,” the CM said. The CM had also directed the collectors to see that all aqua processing units resumed activity. He asked the officials to ready the draft to issue ordinance to cap the prices of feed and seed in aqua sector. The CM also asked the collectors to keep a close watch on sanitation works in the villages.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/will-purchase-every-grain-of-paddy-cm/articleshow/75147433.cms||Samdani MN
April 15, 2020||Amaravati||Andhra Pradesh aims to test 15 lakh people in a month||VIJAYAWADA: After Kerala managed to flatten the Covid curve, Andhra Pradesh has decided to galvanise its efforts through aggressive testing, tracking of contacts and suspected cases, and bolstering quarantine/isolation facilities. Andhra Pradesh, which registered its first case on March 12, had only 44 cases by March 31. But since then, the curve witnessed a steep upward tick to reach 473 cases within 14 days. This has necessitated the state to focus on better containment measures. The state has now set a target to conduct tests on nearly 15 lakh people through various methods in the next one month. It was learnt that the state ordered about 10 lakh rapid-antibody testing kits after the ICMR gave its nod for the new testing strategy. The kits, which are expected to arrive in the state in the next few days, will be used for screening people in the containment zones, red zones and in large gatherings of migrants and other suspected cases. The state already started leveraging its existing Truenat TB (tuberculosis) testing devices for Covid screening. Mobile Covid WISKs (walk-in sample kiosks) were also launched in some districts to collect samples. Even though the combined testing capacity of the seven laboratories is limited to some 1,000 samples a day, the state for the first time tested nearly 2,010 samples on April 13. Meanwhile, the state has almost completed its third phase of door-to-door survey, which focused mainly on people above 60 years, high-risk persons with pre-existing medical conditions, and people suffering from Covid/influenza-like symptoms. The survey so far has identified 22,272 people for observation. While 6,509 people were asked to remain in home quarantine, 243 people were sent for Covid testing. Eight persons were taken for institutional quarantine. According to state officials, there are enough stocks of hydroxychloroquine and azithromycin, which are said to be effective in Covid-19 treatment. Even though the number of people quarantined at the institutional level is currently low, the state government has prepared 338 quarantine facilities to accommodate nearly 70,000 people. According to state officials, there are 5,864 persons in these quarantine/isolation facilities as of Tuesday. Speaking to TOI, CEO, AP Arogyasri, Dr Mallikarjuna Annam, said the testing strategy will be a multi-pronged approach to detect the suspected cases. “The Truenat machines are already being used to test apart from the RT-PCR kits. Now the state government has placed orders for regular antibody testing kits and for chemiluminescent immunoassays IgG and IgM (CLIA) testing kits,” said Dr Mallikarjuna.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/amaravati/ap-aims-to-test-15-lakh-people-in-a-month/articleshow/75157027.cms||Umamaheswara Rao
April 15, 2020||Visakhapatnam||Andhra Pradesh aims to test 15 lakh people in a month||VIJAYAWADA: After Kerala managed to flatten the Covid curve, Andhra Pradesh has decided to galvanise its efforts through aggressive testing, tracking of contacts and suspected cases, and bolstering quarantine/isolation facilities. Andhra Pradesh, which registered its first case on March 12, had only 44 cases by March 31. But since then, the curve witnessed a steep upward tick to reach 473 cases within 14 days. This has necessitated the state to focus on better containment measures. The state has now set a target to conduct tests on nearly 15 lakh people through various methods in the next one month. It was learnt that the state ordered about 10 lakh rapid-antibody testing kits after the ICMR gave its nod for the new testing strategy. The kits, which are expected to arrive in the state in the next few days, will be used for screening people in the containment zones, red zones and in large gatherings of migrants and other suspected cases. The state already started leveraging its existing Truenat TB (tuberculosis) testing devices for Covid screening. Mobile Covid WISKs (walk-in sample kiosks) were also launched in some districts to collect samples. Even though the combined testing capacity of the seven laboratories is limited to some 1,000 samples a day, the state for the first time tested nearly 2,010 samples on April 13. Meanwhile, the state has almost completed its third phase of door-to-door survey, which focused mainly on people above 60 years, high-risk persons with pre-existing medical conditions, and people suffering from Covid/influenza-like symptoms. The survey so far has identified 22,272 people for observation. While 6,509 people were asked to remain in home quarantine, 243 people were sent for Covid testing. Eight persons were taken for institutional quarantine. According to state officials, there are enough stocks of hydroxychloroquine and azithromycin, which are said to be effective in Covid-19 treatment. Even though the number of people quarantined at the institutional level is currently low, the state government has prepared 338 quarantine facilities to accommodate nearly 70,000 people. According to state officials, there are 5,864 persons in these quarantine/isolation facilities as of Tuesday. Speaking to TOI, CEO, AP Arogyasri, Dr Mallikarjuna Annam, said the testing strategy will be a multi-pronged approach to detect the suspected cases. “The Truenat machines are already being used to test apart from the RT-PCR kits. Now the state government has placed orders for regular antibody testing kits and for chemiluminescent immunoassays IgG and IgM (CLIA) testing kits,” said Dr Mallikarjuna.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/visakhapatnam/ap-aims-to-test-15-lakh-people-in-a-month/articleshow/75157024.cms||Umamaheswara Rao
April 15, 2020||Vijayawada||Andhra Pradesh aims to test 15 lakh people in a month||VIJAYAWADA: After Kerala managed to flatten the Covid curve, Andhra Pradesh has decided to galvanise its efforts through aggressive testing, tracking of contacts and suspected cases, and bolstering quarantine/isolation facilities. Andhra Pradesh, which registered its first case on March 12, had only 44 cases by March 31. But since then, the curve witnessed a steep upward tick to reach 473 cases within 14 days. This has necessitated the state to focus on better containment measures. The state has now set a target to conduct tests on nearly 15 lakh people through various methods in the next one month. It was learnt that the state ordered about 10 lakh rapid-antibody testing kits after the ICMR gave its nod for the new testing strategy. The kits, which are expected to arrive in the state in the next few days, will be used for screening people in the containment zones, red zones and in large gatherings of migrants and other suspected cases. The state already started leveraging its existing Truenat TB (tuberculosis) testing devices for Covid screening. Mobile Covid WISKs (walk-in sample kiosks) were also launched in some districts to collect samples. Even though the combined testing capacity of the seven laboratories is limited to some 1,000 samples a day, the state for the first time tested nearly 2,010 samples on April 13. Meanwhile, the state has almost completed its third phase of door-to-door survey, which focused mainly on people above 60 years, high-risk persons with pre-existing medical conditions, and people suffering from Covid/influenza-like symptoms. The survey so far has identified 22,272 people for observation. While 6,509 people were asked to remain in home quarantine, 243 people were sent for Covid testing. Eight persons were taken for institutional quarantine. According to state officials, there are enough stocks of hydroxychloroquine and azithromycin, which are said to be effective in Covid-19 treatment. Even though the number of people quarantined at the institutional level is currently low, the state government has prepared 338 quarantine facilities to accommodate nearly 70,000 people. According to state officials, there are 5,864 persons in these quarantine/isolation facilities as of Tuesday. Speaking to TOI, CEO, AP Arogyasri, Dr Mallikarjuna Annam, said the testing strategy will be a multi-pronged approach to detect the suspected cases. “The Truenat machines are already being used to test apart from the RT-PCR kits. Now the state government has placed orders for regular antibody testing kits and for chemiluminescent immunoassays IgG and IgM (CLIA) testing kits,” said Dr Mallikarjuna.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/ap-aims-to-test-15-lakh-people-in-a-month/articleshow/75147420.cms||Umamaheswara Rao
April 15, 2020||Nagpur||Nagpur: Industries may have to prune force||NAGPUR: With prime minister Narendra Modi extending the lockdown till May 3, factories around Nagpur may see layoffs in the coming days. According to several local industrialists, many firms are simply not in a position to pay full salaries to their entire workforce. Industrialists are hoping that they be at least allowed to operate their units partially under the graded relaxation plan. The first to go will be the contract workers, who get the lowest salaries and are most vulnerable. In most factories, regular employees have to be paid 50% salary if they are sacked. An industrial consultant told TOI on the condition of anonymity that industrialists were consulting lawyers whether the state government had the powers to ask them to pay full salaries to their employees when the plants were shut. “The lawyers have opined that government has no such powers, especially when it is not giving any relief to the industries. Retrenchments are going to happen in the coming days as companies have suffered unbearable losses,” he said, adding that governments should have given relief to industrialists in either power bills or bank loans or taxes. An office-bearer of an industrial association said that while companies had paid full salaries for the month of March, many were not in a position to do so for the month of April. “Now with the extension of the lockdown, industrialists have started thinking of pruning their workforce. Contract workers will be sacked first as they don’t have to be paid 50% salary. If the lockdown is extended till May, then the situation will go out of control,” he added. An office-bearer of Vidarbha Industrial Association (VIA) said that the body was planning to write to the state government seeking permission to lay off workers. “We are not earning anything. We are unable to sell our products and neither are we getting money for the goods already sold. Our customers are not giving us any money citing cash crunch due to the lockdown,” he added. A unit owner from Akola said that there was no talk on layoffs among the city’s industrialists as most of them operated food product factories. “Our business has not been affected as we produce essential commodities and our units are functioning as usual. So Akola will be spared of the pain of retrenchments,” he told TOI. Builders claim that there were no plans to layoff people as their apex body, Credai, had issued directives to its members to pay construction workers full salaries and also feed and house them. “Our office staff, too, is being paid full salary,” said builder Ashok Chandak. Labour commissioner Vijay Panbude said that so far, the state and central governments had asked employers not to lay off workers. “Right now, the government has prohibited retrenchment. We will send a legal notice to anyone who sacks his employees. However, if there are any changes in the directives, we will act accordingly,” he told TOI.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/industries-may-have-to-prune-force/articleshow/75148610.cms||Ashish Roy
April 15, 2020||Vijayawada||‘Ensure food in quarantine units is up to the mark’||Amaravati: Chief minister YS Jaganmohan Reddy directed collectors to ensure that food and facilities in quarantine units were up to the mark so that people would not think of escaping or rushing home. Moreover, primary and secondary contacts of the positive cases who are in quarantine should be made to feel safe and comfortable until they are discharged, he said. Jaganmohan Reddy asked the officials to conduct rapid tests on all suspected cases identified by ANMs and ASHAs. He said shifting of high-risk cases to Covid-19 dedicated hospitals would help prevent deaths. TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/ensure-food-in-quarantine-units-is-up-to-the-mark/articleshow/75147440.cms||Samdani MN
April 15, 2020||Vijayawada||Hurt by lockdown, lorry owners seek tax holiday from state govt||Vijayawada: The extension of the lockdown comes as a severe blow to the city’s transport sector which is already reeling under various sectoral problems. As all the trucks other than carrying essential supplies have been stalled, lorry owners are finding it difficult to meet the ends. The lorry owners fear that their problems will compound with the extended lockdown. The city which has been known for its transport business has more than 10 per cent of the total trucks in the state. Most of these trucks are into inter-state operations transporting various goods. With the lockdown announced by the Union government to contain the spread of Covid-19, a majority of these trucks are stuck somewhere on the highways, said Y V Eswar Rao, general secretary, Andhra Pradesh Lorry Owners Association (APLOA). Eswar Rao said the disruption caused in the supply chain network has hit them hard. The majority of the small players are now facing the threat of defaulting their term loans. Though Reserve Bank of India (RBI) has given a moratorium of three months, it is of no help as the accrued interest will be added to the principal and loan burden will get compounded. More than paying back the loans, the lorry owners are facing immediate problems like paying salaries, renew permit licences and pay quarterly taxes. Eswar Rao said that they have requested the state government to give a tax holiday for at least two quarters from now so as to come out of this unprecedented problem. The lorry owners are now pinning their hopes on the relaxations that the central government likely to announce in the areas where virus spread is not there after April 20.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/hurt-by-lockdown-lorry-owners-seek-tax-holiday-from-state-govt/articleshow/75147451.cms||---
April 15, 2020||Nagpur||Shelter home inmate taken for tests detected with TB||NAGPUR: The news that the lockdown has been extended did not increase the palpitation among occupants of the shelter home at the NMC school, off Temple Road, in Sitabuldi. “We have no choice but to stay here,” said one of them, peeping out of the school’s entrance as the others agreed. Initially, the situation was tense after one of the inmates, a 22-year old worker from Chhattisgarh, was taken for Covid-19 tests on Tuesday afternoon. But a late evening report stated that the patient was detected with only tuberculosis. The youth was sent back to the shelter home where the doctor said he will be initially kept in isolation and that tuberculosis is not as risky as covid-19. “His treatment will be started,” said medical officer, Dr Sarita Kamat. Caretaker Rajesh Kundapawar, who witnessed symptoms like dry cough, fever and abdominal pain in the youth, had called the corona helpline and asked for an ambulance. The youth’s evacuation was cleared by the medical officer at the NMC clinic which is just opposite the school. The youth, with already a frail structure, was living in one of the classrooms with six others. As the fear was evident, replies by his roommates had remained nonchalant. They admitted that the youth was coughing all night. None of them reported similar symptoms though. Earlier, Dr Kamat had said that hopefully it may not be a case of Covid-19 because the patient was not experiencing difficulty while breathing. Her experience proved right and the patient was later detected with only tuberculosis. “The youth was brought to the shelter home on April 5 from the railway station. He is from Ghaneli village in Rajnandgaon district of Chhattisgarh. Even there, he was under treatment at the primary health centre. He came down to Nagpur in a truck from his village and was found at the railway station,” said Kundapawar. The youth had given his version of events. “I have no family. My siblings have died. There was no work at my village. I have been suffering from a cough as well as a stomach ache,” said the youth. Though he nodded on being asked if he had any trouble breathing, he was seen walking around with ease. At the shelter home, occupants were often seen breaching social distancing norms. Inadvertently, they were coming within one metre of each other. “We have maintained enough distance between two occupants. Some have been accommodated in the hall. We cannot keep a continuous vigil,” said Kundapawar. The youth’s roommate, Rajesh Shivhare, said, “He was coughing at night, but he sleeps away from my bed.” Another roommate, Ramesh Keshav, who is in his 50s, extended his hand and said, “He (the youth) sleeps this much away.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/shelter-home-inmate-taken-for-tests-detected-with-tb/articleshow/75148641.cms||Shishir Arya
April 15, 2020||Hyderabad||OGH doctor hit as patients fret, fume over bad infrastructure||HYDERABAD: Angry doctors attending Covid-19 patients at the Osmania general hospital (OGH) threatened to stop services after one of their colleagues was beaten up by relatives of patients on Tuesday, the second such attack within a week. Trouble broke out at the isolation ward of OGH after two tested positive for the virus, triggering an angry reaction from other patients who wanted to be shifted out. The ward has 8-10 suspected patients housed together in a cramped place. With average time of 2-3 days for testing, suspect cases waiting for their reports are getting angry when other patients are testing positive. "A man demanded that his son be discharged immediately, but as his test report was awaited the duty doctor tried to convince them to stay. This led to a heated argument and the attendants attacked the doctor," said Dr G Srinivas, president Resident Doctors' Association. Junior doctors threaten to stop servicesWhen the PG doctor said that they must wait for his Covid-19 report, the attendants hit the doctor in the ear, rupturing it and leading to bleeding,” he added. After angry junior doctors and resident doctors threatened to discontinue services citing lack of security, hospital superintendent Dr B Nagender and director of medical education Dr K Ramesh Reddy decided to lodge a police complaint and redirect all suspected cases to Gandhi hospital. “Till now Gandhi Hospital was not taking suspected cases from OGH and only positive patients were being sent. Now, all patients with suspected of Covid-19 will be sent to Gandhi hospital. Also, a special protection force will be stationed ,” said Dr B Nagender. Earlier this week, a duty doctor was attacked at Gandhi hospital by relatives of a Covid-19 patient. “We have registered a case under Sections 353 and 506 of the IPC against the son of the suspected Covid- 19 patient for intimidating doctors,” inspector P Gyanender Reddy said. “There is no proper security. Beds are cramped with less than one meter distance,” said Dr Mahesh Kumar, president of Healthcare Reforms Doctors Association.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/ogh-doctor-hit-as-patients-fret-fume-over-bad-infrastructure/articleshow/75150157.cms||Amrita Didyala
April 15, 2020||Vijayawada||Cops relaunch drive against overspeeding||Vijayawada: On average, traffic police and road transport authority (RTA) officials book at least 60 cases of speeding a day. The drive against speeding was suspended following the declaration of the lockdown. But authorities have decided to launch the drive again following increasing incidents of speeding being reported. Although movement of both humans and vehicles are being monitored by the police, it has not prevented traffic violations. With a majority of the roads, including national and state highways being empty nowadays a few motorists have been using the opportunity to ride their bikes above the permissible speed limit. Two road accidents were reported in Visakhaptnam city on April 12 due to speeding on the NH-16 stretch. Fortunately, no casualties were reported in either case. “We have decided to take action against those who speed and drive rashly. We have deployed speed laser guns at key roads. On Monday, we registered a good number of cases for violation of the speed limit, said said ADC, traffic, Ch Adinarayana. Police said nearly 60% of the motorists, who were booked for speeding, were youngsters and two-wheeler riders and the remaining 40% were drivers of four-wheelers. RTA and police officials revealed that most of the fatal road accidents in Andhra Pradesh result due to speeding. On average over 8,000 people die in road accidents in a year in the state and over 32% of the victims are two-wheeler riders. “I saw a few youngsters ride their high-end bikes at high speed between Yendada and Zoo Park areas on Sunday morning. We are appealing to the police to take measures to curb such dangerous driving, especially during lockdown, as it may lead to casualties, said Prakash R, a resident of Yendada.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/cops-relaunch-drive-against-overspeeding/articleshow/75147460.cms||Nalla.Babu
April 15, 2020||Nagpur||Lockdown extension appreciable, relaxation can be risky, say citizens||Nagpur: Prime Minister Narendra Modi has extended the national lockdown until May 3 but what caught the attention of many is him saying some areas could be opened up in a limited way from April 20. To allow this relaxation, the government will keep a keen eye on Covid-19 hotspots and take decisions so as to prevent creation of new hotspots. For the next one week, India will enforce stricter measures to contain the virus. Many citizens see this move as a major threat. The guidelines for relaxation will be known on April 15. Areas with little corona footprint and good containment can restart some activity. Chartered accountant Sandeep Agrawal, calls this a risky step. “The common man has understood very clearly whatever is being said is for the larger good of all citizens, irrespective of all other identities that mankind has created for itself. Relaxation is not advisable, especially in red zones, unless we see a considerable and sustainable downtrend in positive cases,” he said. Mandar Pandhare, an IT professional, said, “Considering what happened during Janata Curfew or during exodus in Delhi, a little relaxation can backfire massively and can result into community transmission.” People are indulging in panic buying and also holding gatherings, defeating the whole idea of lockdown. Relaxation will only increase the casual attitude of the people. Jayakrishnan P, another chartered accountant, said, “Extension of lockdown is appreciable, but relaxation is not something that would be beneficial to the people. A sudden relief to people will give them a chance to gather more,” he said. Mrunal Naik, project head at SGR Foundation, said, "If we don't want to go the Italy way, then we have to follow the lockdown. Even if there is relaxation, we should think whether it is really more necessary than life of self and others. People must cooperate, which is not seen in the city. Mass gatherings and crowd at markets are a common sight.” Prameela Unnikrishnan, director of dance academy Shreekrishna Nrithalayam, said, “The government has said it will look at the less-spread areas. Still taking such a huge step at this peak hour is not needed.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/lockdown-extension-appreciable-relaxation-can-be-risky-say-citizens/articleshow/75148663.cms||Shreya Tinkhede
April 15, 2020||Vijayawada||Now, fee reimbursements to go to accounts of students’ mothers||Amaravati: Doing away with the practice of making fee reimbursement payments directly to professional colleges, the state government has decided to remit the amounts into bank accounts of students’ mothers. Chief minister YS Jaganmohan Reddy said that the government would grant remit reimbursement amounts from the next academic year. The chief minister disclosed this new policy during an interaction with district collectors and SPs on Tuesday. He said that the government has already cleared nearly Rs 1,800 crore dues of the 2018-19 academic year to colleges and has also paid fee reimbursement dues for the 2019-20 academic year. According to the chief minister, the government has decided to pay the fee reimbursement amount to students’ mothers to prevent colleges from overcharging. He said that the government had found that a few colleges were collecting fees over and above the reimbursement charges being paid by the government. “In the past, the government used to pay a fixed amount of Rs 35,000 per student, irrespective of the actual fee in colleges. We have now changed the policy and will be paying the actual fee fixed by the state fee regulation committee,” the CM said. CM Jagan further said that the government has already issued notices to 191 colleges which collected additional fees to students directing them to return the amount immediately. The chief minister also promised that the government would clear the fee reimbursement dues at the end of every quarter in the fiscal. However, experts in the fields feared that the new policy might put the students in trouble as the colleges step up pressure for payment of actual fees right from the first day of admission. “The college managements have so far patiently waited for the fee reimbursement amount as they knew that the government would clear it sometime during the fiscal. Since they will not trust the individual students, they will start harassing students from when they take admission,” said a former principal of an engineering college.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/now-fee-reimbursements-to-go-to-accounts-of-students-mothers/articleshow/75147473.cms||Samdani MN
April 15, 2020||Surat||Air ambulance takes Surat's Sonpari to parents||SURAT: Amid all the chaos across the globe owing to the pandemic, hope shines through Sonpari, a miracle baby born via IVF in Surat hospital to Bengaluru parents. While the stork deposited the bundle of joy on March 29 at the 21st Century Hospital, her doting parents ensured that their baby comes home to their waiting arms in an air ambulance, all the way to Bengaluru. It all began with the business couple desperate to get their own baby coming all the way to Surat to get help. "Sonpari's parents visited us a year ago, as the mother had a problem with her uterus and advised to go for IVF with surrogacy," said Dr Pooja Nadkarni Singh, gynaecologist, who delivered the baby along with Dr Purnima Nadkarni. The girl was born on March 29 amid the nationwide lockdown. "This left the new surrogate parents nervous as they could neither drive down nor fly to Surat. We were constantly communicating with the parents via video calls and they couldn't wait to hold their newborn in their arms," said Dr Singh. Meanwhile, the healthy baby charmed her way into the hearts hospital staff who took utmost care of her for 17 days. At the same time, process continued from the hospital end as the parents to find a way to deliver the precious package to the rightful owner. "After a lot of running around, the parents could arrange for an air ambulance from Delhi to have the baby collected from Surat and delivered to them," said Dr Singh. "The hospital staff bid an emotional farewell to Sonpari, who they handed over to the air ambulance nurses at Surat airport at 2pm. The infant was flown directly to Bengaluru and was in her father's arms by 5pm. We ensured that the baby spent minimal time at the airport, looking at her fragility and so got her a special boarding pass, stating her as 'Baby of ....'," Dr Singh added. Speaking with TOI over phone, her 42-year-old father said, "We were desperate to hold our baby in our arms and it's a magical moment. The entire house is celebrating her arrival. Hospital director Dr Prabhakar Singh expressed his deep gratitude to the airport staff including director Aman Saini for the baby's smooth transition to Bengaluru. "I also thank MLA Harsh Sanghvi and collector Dhaval Patel, who took care of the required protocol formalities," he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/air-ambulance-takes-surats-sonpari-to-parents/articleshow/75150547.cms||Ashleshaa Khurana
April 15, 2020||Hyderabad||It's buzz as usual in several containment zones in Hyderabad||HYDERABAD: Despite orders from Greater Hyderabad Municipal Corporation (GHMC) banning people from moving in or out of containment zones, the ground reality is otherwise with locals and outsiders seen freely entering and exiting the red zones with impunity on Tuesday. In Secunderabad, containment zones have been identified at Kakateeya Nagar in Habsiguda, Srinivas Nagar and Boudha Nagar in Seethaphalmandi, Moula Ali and Lalapet among others. Though general public cannot access these containment areas, locals could seen moving around in these areas. Many residents rue that there is lack of information from the GHMC, forcing them to move in the area for essentials such as water cans. "GHMC officials barricaded the entire area overnight without providing us any information. We are just getting bits and pieces of information from workers visiting our houses. Some communication on how this will work would have been appreciated," said Srinivas A, a resident of Kakateeya Nagar, where close to 110 buildings have been barricaded. Many residents in the containment zones also complain of trash piling up at their homes. At Moula Ali, despite authorities barricading the entry/exit points and posting a policeman, two-wheelers and pedestrians were seen crossing the fence. "As I work in a nearby household as a domestic help, I have to step out of the area for doing household chores," Razia Begum, a resident of Moula Ali, said. Though regular announcements were made on public address systems warning people not to step out of their homes, the messages seem to have little impact on the citizens. "For the next 14 days, these areas will be quarantined. We are stepping up all measures to ensure that residents remain indoors. At all clusters, we are ensuring that people don't step out of their houses by sensitising them through regular warnings," said R Sreedhar, in-charge of LB Nagar and Secunderabad zones during his visit to Kakateeya Nagar.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/its-buzz-as-usual-in-several-containment-zones-in-hyderabad/articleshow/75150257.cms||Preeti Biswas
April 15, 2020||Mumbai||Mumbai's Dharavi cases rise steadily, hunt for quarantine centres||MUMBAI: Six new cases of Covid-19, including two fatalities, were reported from the congested Dharavi neighbourhood on Tuesday. In 14 days since the first case was reported, the case tally has risen to 55, including seven deaths. A 52-year-old from Muslim Nagar died at Sion Hospital, and another 52-year-old from Kalyanwadi passed away at Rajawadi hospital. The latter was found Covid-19 positive after his last rites. So, it was learnt that the protocol on such cases could not be followed for the burial. A 55-year-old woman, who had been kept in quarantine at a civic centre, also passed away at Sion hospital on Monday night. Her swab sample had been collected, but a report is awaited. On Tuesday, the only bright spot was that none of the cases came from a new pocket of the locality. Two men, 55 and 19, tested positive from Janta colony, and a 43-year-old woman from Rajiv Nagar and a 27-year-old from Muslim Nagar were the other patients. With the steady rise in the number of cases, the BMC is running out of space in its quarantine centre that was acquired for the purpose. It is now in the process of getting two more quarantine facilities — a 700-bed isolation facility in the Dharavi transit camp municipal school and a building constructed for project affected persons (PAP) — ready. The BMC is taking all the high-risk contacts of a patient who has tested positive to a quarantine facility if these people live in small homes and find it difficult to isolate themselves. At these centres, orders are to ensure that high- and low-risk persons are separately quarantined. “We had estimated that the Rajiv Gandhi District Sports Complex would have a capacity of 300 beds, but it seems to have filled up with only 200 persons. So, we will shift the new cases to the transit camp school,” said BMC assistant municipal commissioner of G-North ward Kiran Dighavkar. In an uncalled for problem at the Rajiv Gandhi District Sports Complex, several persons from two religious communities did not want to be kept together and civic officials had to house them on separate floors of the complex.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/mumbais-dharavi-cases-rise-steadily-hunt-for-quarantine-centres/articleshow/75150148.cms||Richa Pinto
April 15, 2020||Vijayawada||Lockdown helped identify Covid-19 sources: DGP||Vijayawada: As the first phase of the lockdown comes to an end after 19 days, the state has witnessed a substantial decrease in the daily rate of Covid-19 cases this week compared to the previous week. From a huge dip in crime rate to categorising the sources of infection, the government managed to witness a paradigm shift in dealing with the pandemic. Speaking to TOI, director general of police D Gautam Sawang said there are two main sources spreading the virus in the state--one coming from the foreign returnees and the other from the Tablighi Jamaat. “Crimes have come down since there is no instance for people to indulge in the activity. But we see some instances of domestic violence, harassment coming through the Disha helpline where counselling is being done through local NGOs,” Sawang said. Until March 29, there were only 11 cases in the state, however, once the Tablighi Jamaat, the figure witnessed a huge jump. “We managed to contain the infection from foreign returnees in the initial stage. Both primary and secondary contacts were identified successfully,” Sawang added. Officials explained that 1,167 attended Tablighi Jamaat from the state out of which 1033 have come back to Andhra Pradesh. The primary contacts of Tablighi Jamaat attendees then stood at 4,767 contacts and the secondary contacts stood at 6,730. As of April 13, 2020, 439 cases were recorded out of which 356 belong to Tablighi Jamaat attendees. Police attribute that there hasn’t been any major spread within the state due to the lockdown and social distancing. In terms of lockdown compliance, cops cite that the crowds have been controlled at the state borders during the initial days and there has been an increase in compliance rate. “This lockdown period helped us in identifying the high risk categories and vulnerable areas which gives us a clear idea as to where our focus should be. The CM has been conducting daily review meetings where strategic measures are taken to ensure the supply chain is secured,” Sawang said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/lockdown-helped-identify-covid-19-sources-dgp/articleshow/75147488.cms||Ujwal Bommakanti
April 15, 2020||Vijayawada||PM calls Naidu, seeks feedback on measures||Amaravati: Prime Minister Narendra Modi called former chief minister N Chandrababu Naidu on Tuesday and took his feedback on measures to be initiated to contain the spread of Covid-19. This came in the wake of Naidu’s repeated attempts to reach out to Modi in the last few weeks after having snapped tied with the BJP almost two years ago. Speaking to the media via a video call, Naidu said he had called up at the PMO on Monday to share his views and ideas with the PM on the measures to be taken to control the spread of Covid-19. “Prime Minister Modi was unavailable on Monday. But, he called me back on Tuesday and took feedback,” explained Naidu. He said the nation has achieved positive results in containing the virus only through the lockdown. He said the country should be divided into three zones and more curbs should be imposed in red zones where most number of positive cases are reported. Naidu said the state government should actively consider door delivery of essentials in red zones and opt for more rapid tests. Sources said that TDP was disappointed when Naidu’s name was given a miss in the list of top opposition leaders with whom the PM interacted last week. Modi spoke to almost all Opposition leaders, including AICC chief Sonia Gandhi, former PMs Manmohan Singh, Deve Gowda and CPI(M) general secretary Sitaram Yechury.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/pm-calls-naidu-seeks-feedback-on-measures/articleshow/75147502.cms||Samdani MN
April 15, 2020||Hyderabad||Telangana lockdown to be eased post April 20||HYDERABAD: The state is mulling to ease lockdown restrictions in a phased manner post April 20, starting with relaxing norms in districts logging zero Covid-19 positive cases. However, districts and locations, including Greater Hyderabad, reporting high number of cases may have to endure complete lockdown till May 3. The Union government on Tuesday extended lockdown till May 3 and announced that it would allow some activities, relaxing lockdown norms, after April 20. Later in the day, it issued guidelines to states. The Centre would allow movement of trucks, MSMEs and some categories of industries to function with minimum manpower, engaged in production of wheat flour, edible oil and pulses, provided they stick to social distancing norms and other health guidelines after April 20. "The state government has also categorised areas and activities, where relaxations can be granted, after reviewing the situation. The relaxations will be in a phased manner," health minister Eatala Rajender told TOI on Tuesday. "The government will allow certain activities like construction and small-scale industries to function if locations or towns have zero cases and far away from the affected areas," a senior health department official said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/telangana-lockdown-to-be-eased-post-april-20/articleshow/75150266.cms||Koride Mahesh
April 15, 2020||Nagpur||32 more testing labs can come up with AIIMS as mentor||Nagpur: Many ministers and political bigwigs in Maharashtra have announced that Covid-19 testing laboratories will be established in their constituencies. Some have also sanctioned funds for them. But mere announcements and funds would not be enough for labs to start. Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) has designated All India Institute of Medical Sciences (AIIMS) Nagpur, as the mentor institute for sanctioning Covid-19 laboratories in the state. All new labs in Maharashtra will come only through mentorship of AIIMS Nagpur. Authorities need to apply with the nodal officer at AIIMS Nagpur, procure instruments, train their staff, and undergo inspection. This will definitely take time. “AIIMS Nagpur will serve as ‘Mentor Institute’ to 34 facilities in Maharashtra, Goa, Dadra & Nagar Haveli and Daman & Diu. These include 32 medical colleges in Maharashtra except Mumbai and Pune,” informed AIIMS director and CEO Maj Gen (Dr) Vibha Dutta. AIIMS will handhold and mentor medical colleges and facilitate the establishment of Covid-19 diagnostic facilities. The list of these 32 institutes include NKP Salve Institute of Medical Sciences, Nagpur; Jawaharlal Nehru Medical College, Sawangi Meghe; Mahatma Gandhi Institute, Sevagram, Wardha; V N Govt Medical College, Yavatmal; Dr Punjabrao Deshmukh Medical college, Amravati and Government Medical College, Chandrapur. All these institutes will get mentorship from AIIMS. Many more institutes in Nagpur and Vidarbha also have RT-PCR Machine with which they can start Covid-19 testing. These include Departments of Microbiology, Biochemistry, and Pharmacy RTMNU; Regional Forensic Science Laboratory, Nagpur and NEERI, Nagpur. “Regional Forensic Science Labs are doing such tests for many years. We have the RT PCR machines with us. We will be available as and when the state government approaches us,” said Dr Krishna Kulkarni, director, Directorate of Forensic Science Laboratory, Maharastra. The regional forensic lab in Nagpur is in Dhantoli and testing can start here. “RTMNU’s Department of microbiology is willing to join the fight against coronavirus, but we don’t have enough staff at the moment. This department has done significant work during the earlier epidemics,” said HoD of the department Dr Pradeep Tumane. Director general of Council of Scientific and Industrial Research (CSIR) Shekhar Mande confirmed that Neeri Nagpur will be carrying out Covid-19 tests in its lab. Their labs have to apply directly to the ICMR.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/32-more-testing-labs-can-come-up-with-aiims-as-mentor/articleshow/75148773.cms||Chaitanya Deshpande
April 15, 2020||Mumbai||Mumbai: 10 more staffers at Bhatia Hospital positive||MUMBAI: Ten more healthcare workers from Bhatia Hospital in Tardeo tested positive for Covid-19 on Tuesday, taking the in-house infections count to 35. A radiologist from Bombay Hospital, too, tested positive. Bhatia rose to second on the list of affected healthcare facilities in the city after Wockhardt Hospital in Mumbai Central, where 52 staffers had tested positive for the novel coronavirus. Overall, 137 healthcare personnel from various hospitals and clinics have tested positive so far, almost 8% of the total cases in the city. Wockhardt Hospital completed its 14-day containment period and the BMC gave it the go-ahead to resume operations. It is now one of six dedicated Covid-19 facilities for critical patients. Municipal sources said the hospital communicated to the BMC that some staffers had tendered their resignation. Several nurses had alleged inappropriate handling of the situation after the first positive test of a patient for Covid-19. The five other dedicated Covid-19 facilities are Nanavati in Vile Parle, St George in CSMT, Saifee in Charni Road, Hinduhrudaysamrat Bal Thackeray Trauma Care Hospital in Jogeshwari and SevenHills in Marol. Jaslok Hospital on Pedder Road, placed under containment protocol after 21 staffers tested positive, resumed functioning partially. The hospital said it would begin full-fledged operations in a few days. Additional municipal commissioner Suresh Kakani said facilities were classified into three categories. Covid-care centres would admit asymptomatic positive people. Kakani said 12,000 beds were available here. Dedicated Covid health centres had 2,500 beds and would admit patients with mild to moderate symptoms. Dedicated Covid hospitals, such as Wockhardt, would cater to critical cases. Officials said no cases had been found in Breach Candy, which was running minimal services. At least a dozen nursing homes continued to remain shut.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/mumbai-10-more-staffers-at-bhatia-hospital-positive/articleshow/75150162.cms||Sumitra Debroy
April 15, 2020||Nagpur||Cops serve 17 notices for misuse of social media||Nagpur: City police’s cyber cell has so far served 17 notices under section 149 of the criminal procedure code (CrPC) to warn against the misuse of social media related to fake news, rumours and hate mongering in the backdrop of Covid-19 pandemic. Three notices were served on Tuesday. Five offences have been registered so far by the city police for misusing social media since the lockdown. In the state, 77% of the total offences registered against social media users were related to hate messages in a span of 24 hours since Monday. Around 10 out of the 13 offences registered in a single day across the state were related to hate messages. Maharashtra state cyber cell’s SP Balsingh Rajput informed TOI that 104 cases of hate messages have been registered out of the 196 related to fake news, rumours and hate mongering since the lockdown. As per the statistics shared by the state police, Nagpur police registered 2,706 cases till 4pm on Tuesday against violators since the lockdown was announced. On Tuesday, the city police registered 75 offences against violators of lockdown, detained 64 and seized 21 vehicles. Apart from Covid-19 related issues, cops are also facing challenges to tackle political rivalry on social media platforms. On Tuesday, an offence was registered at Ambazari police station against a man for defaming former CM Devendra Fadnavis and three other top BJP leaders. On Sunday, Kondhali police, too, registered a non-cognizable offence case against a user who had targeted state home minister Anil Deshmukh and others in the government. Sources from Nagpur police’s cyber cell said that every day, almost half a dozen people are summoned, interrogated and warned against misusing social media. “We are keeping a watch on citizens using social media and none can get away by indulging in illegal activities,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/cops-serve-17-notices-for-misuse-of-social-media/articleshow/75148788.cms||Soumitra Bose
April 15, 2020||Vijayawada||Tahsildar, doctor among 44 new Covid-19 cases in Andhra Pradesh||VIJAYAWADA/TIRUPATI: A tahsildar and a doctor figured among 44 new Covid-19 patients in Andhra Pradesh on Tuesday, even as two more people were declared dead from the deadly virus. While the death toll from Covid-19 rose to eight, the positive tally stood at 483. The tahsildar attached to a rural mandal in Anantapur and a physician working at government general hospital in Anantapur tested positive, the government said. The tahsildar is first revenue official in AP to have contacted the virus. Earlier, five medical staff at Anantapur had tested positive. Covid-19 has already claimed life of a doctor from Nellore. The tahsildar, who lives in Hindupur town, attended a recent review meeting conducted by a local MLA. Revenue and health officials are now in search of primary and secondary contacts of the tahsildar. The legislator is likely to be sent to quarantine.  Tracking the contacts of the tahsildar could prove to be a daunting task as he has been working at the frontline of Covid-19 battle in the district, and may have met several people. Anantapur collector Gandham Chandrudu said the tahsildar is being treated at the district Covid-19 hospital. The doctor is the sixth one from the medical fraternity at Anantapur GGH to contract Covid-19 as five others, including two doctors and three paramedical staff, have tested positive. Among the 44 fresh cases, 21 were reported from Guntur district, 8 from Krishna, 7 from Kurnool, 5 from Anantapur, 2 from Kadapa and 1 in Nellore. Guntur is the first district in the state to breach the century mark with a total of 114 cases. The Covid-19 curve of the district witnessing a major jump in the last one week has kept the district officials on their toes. Making things more puzzled for the officials, several Covid-19 cases in the district, including two deaths, have no travel or contact history. According to authorities, one of the two deceased was a 56-year-old orthopaedic surgeon from Nellore. The doctor, reportedly having comorbidities such as diabetes and hypertension, died in a corporate hospital in Chennai on Monday. He was a contact of TJ meeting attendee. Another victim was a 55-year-old male from Vijayawada. The patient was admitted with cough to GGH in Vijayawada on April 5. The man, contact of another Covid patient, was suffering from asthma and diabetes. He was kept on ventilator from April 9 before he passed away on April 12.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/tahsildar-doctor-among-44-new-covid-19-cases-in-andhra-pradesh/articleshow/75150181.cms||Umamaheswara Rao
April 15, 2020||Amaravati||Tahsildar, doctor among 44 new Covid-19 cases in Andhra Pradesh||VIJAYAWADA/TIRUPATI: A tahsildar and a doctor figured among 44 new Covid-19 patients in Andhra Pradesh on Tuesday, even as two more people were declared dead from the deadly virus. While the death toll from Covid-19 rose to eight, the positive tally stood at 483. The tahsildar attached to a rural mandal in Anantapur and a physician working at government general hospital in Anantapur tested positive, the government said. The tahsildar is first revenue official in AP to have contacted the virus. Earlier, five medical staff at Anantapur had tested positive. Covid-19 has already claimed life of a doctor from Nellore. The tahsildar, who lives in Hindupur town, attended a recent review meeting conducted by a local MLA. Revenue and health officials are now in search of primary and secondary contacts of the tahsildar. The legislator is likely to be sent to quarantine.  Tracking the contacts of the tahsildar could prove to be a daunting task as he has been working at the frontline of Covid-19 battle in the district, and may have met several people. Anantapur collector Gandham Chandrudu said the tahsildar is being treated at the district Covid-19 hospital. The doctor is the sixth one from the medical fraternity at Anantapur GGH to contract Covid-19 as five others, including two doctors and three paramedical staff, have tested positive. Among the 44 fresh cases, 21 were reported from Guntur district, 8 from Krishna, 7 from Kurnool, 5 from Anantapur, 2 from Kadapa and 1 in Nellore. Guntur is the first district in the state to breach the century mark with a total of 114 cases. The Covid-19 curve of the district witnessing a major jump in the last one week has kept the district officials on their toes. Making things more puzzled for the officials, several Covid-19 cases in the district, including two deaths, have no travel or contact history. According to authorities, one of the two deceased was a 56-year-old orthopaedic surgeon from Nellore. The doctor, reportedly having comorbidities such as diabetes and hypertension, died in a corporate hospital in Chennai on Monday. He was a contact of TJ meeting attendee. Another victim was a 55-year-old male from Vijayawada. The patient was admitted with cough to GGH in Vijayawada on April 5. The man, contact of another Covid patient, was suffering from asthma and diabetes. He was kept on ventilator from April 9 before he passed away on April 12.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/amaravati/tahsildar-doctor-among-44-new-covid-19-cases-in-andhra-pradesh/articleshow/75150191.cms||Umamaheswara Rao
April 15, 2020||Bengaluru||Karnataka to private companies: Don’t cut pay or sack workers||BENGALURU: The Karnataka government has directed private and public sector establishments not to sack employees or cut their wages — especially of casual and contract workers — in view of the emergency created by the Covid-19 outbreak. In a government order issued on Monday, Captain P Manivannan, secretary, labour department, has said the employees on leave during the period should be considered on duty and paid for those days. Violation of the order would be punishable under the Disaster Management Act, 2005. A helpline will be set up within 48 hours to enable employees to lodge complaints. On March 23, Modi had said no worker should be sacked or her salary cut. Can government act on errant firms?Legal experts are divided whether the authorities can initiate action against private companies under the Disaster Management Act 2005. They conceded that the Act gives governments powers to act against violators. “Section 69 of the Act speaks about delegation of powers by the National Executive Committee or State Executive Committee. Under the Act, there is no power vested with the state government, much less the officer in question, to punish public or private sector employers. The state must exercise restraint and get things done in a benign environment,” Sridhar Prabhu, an advocate who represents industrial concerns, told TOI. Narayan M Bhat, who appears for workmen, said, “Under Section 22, the state executive authority can issue directions to any department, as is done by the labour department here. Under Section 51(b), any failure to comply with the directions may lead to punishment of imprisonment up to one year and fine or both. In case of loss of life, they face imprisonment up to two years.” C Shashikantha, assistant solicitor general, said the guidelines are issued in public interest and officers can exercise power vested in them. He added that erring managements could also be held to account under the Industrial Disputes Act too.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/karnataka-to-private-companies-dont-cut-pay-or-sack-workers/articleshow/75150153.cms||---
April 15, 2020||Nagpur||TOGETHER WE CAN ease sufferings of the needy||Nagpur: Lockdown extension has thrown up new challenges before the frontline workers and NGOs that are working day and night to provide relief to the needy people. Various NGOs, self-help groups and individuals have come together for providing food to migrants, poor, and the homeless. However, this process also requires strict vigilance. The groups involved in community service were also facing problems such as no unrecorded distribution, area wise allotment, reports of people hoarding food, duplication, and wastage. To provide a systematic mechanism and efficiency orientated approach, many individuals, organizations, NGOs and authorities have come together to form TOGETHER WE CAN (TWC). The motive behind forming the group is to streamline the process, cater to more people, and cover large areas with the help of proper system and planning during the lockdown. The group is an umbrella under which self-help groups provide cooked food and grocery kits to the poor, the homeless and the needy. With the help of volunteers from Persistent & Airavat corporate services, an Android app has been developed that can be downloaded from www.covid19nagpur.com. The app features the suppliers and distributors catering to a particular area. It curbs duplication and alerts that the area has been covered and food supplies are distributed to people. The beneficiaries are identified by name and mobile number registered on the app. TWC has made a standardized process of tele-verification, followed by physical verification and duplication check before handing over grocery kit to the end user. The group has appealed to the collectorate Nagpur, NMC and Nagpur Police to avail the facility of the app to avoid slippages and malpractices. TWC has different sets of voluntary teams for verification, procurement, supply, support, distribution and IT support. Harish Adatiya from the App Developer team said, “Whether we like it or not, we have all been born into this world as part of one great human family. We all desire happiness and do not want suffering. With TWC we are trying to ease the pain of the needy. After we saw regular reports of hoarding and duplication we came up with an idea of streamlining the process with the help of the app. I can say, we have succeeded.” “It’s time to give back to the society. It’s the time when we should unite and work smartly in a coordinated manner to cater to the needs. TWC is helping many like us working for the same cause. It has made things easy and efficient for us. Now we are able to serve systematically without hassle,” said Nikunj Dayma of Karunya Foundation. Asma Banu Akbani (coordinator) said, “We don't need to have deep pockets to help the needy, we need to have a heart. We all have come together to form this group as a service to humanity.” Anusaya Kale Chhabrani (Swachh NGO) said, “I appeal to everyone to use the app, come together so we can work for the betterment of the city and fight against Covid-19. This is the time to come from ‘I to We’. The goal cannot be achieved alone, it needs coordinated efforts of individuals, NGOs, self-help groups, police, civic authorities and others involved in service.” The groups and individuals associated with TWC are, Praveen Joseph, Shoeb Meman, Zero Gravity, Yog Vidya Pranic Healing Nagpur, Pragya Gupta, Feeding India, Swami Narayan Temple (BAPS), Akash Katole (MAA Nagpur Group of friends ), Akshita Vyas, Parindey Foundation, Nakul Agrawal Renovatio, Rise, Toast, Indore Gurudwara, India Peace Centre and Chitnavis Centre.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/together-we-can-ease-sufferings-of-the-needy/articleshow/75148808.cms||---
April 15, 2020||India||Storytelling, poetry baithaks make a buzz as lit goes live in lockdown||NEW DELHI: The background is basic: a piece of framed abstract art and a face mask hung against a white wall. “This is the Saraswati symbol used in Maharashtra; it represents wisdom,” says popular mythology writer Devdutt Pattanaik, as he starts a story-telling session. He has done this hundreds of times at literature festivals and gatherings across India. But in lockdown, it is different. Technology has demolished the distance between Pattanaik in his Mumbai home and his audience. The speaker and the listeners are linked in an interactive session that is live-streamed on Facebook and YouTube. Big-name writers, egged on by their publishers, are making social isolation feel more sociable. Literary soirees, storytelling sessions and poetry baithaks are buzzing online. Recently, children attended a workshop by award-winning author Paro Anand, an initiative of her publishing house called #OnceUponABookWithPenguin. Evergreen Ruskin Bond read out from his works. Food historian Pushpesh Pant held forth on the humble pumpkin. Hindi litterateur Mamata Kalia discussed her famous novel Beghar. Urdu visual artist Shiraz Hussain painted a portrait of late Urdu poet Jigar Moradabadi, whose ghazals played in the background. “Writing, to me, has been a solitary activity. But over the last few years as literature festivals have become more common, things have changed. Now writers have to be performers too. Sitting behind a computer to interact with readers is somewhere between being isolated and being in front of a crowd," says Anand. Every afternoon, around 4, Pattanaik goes live on YouTube to speak about any random topic he picks and announces on Twitter, where he has over 7 lakh followers. He plans to do these for the duration of the lockdown. "I notice people prefer Hindu/Indian stories to non-Indian ones and popular Puranic to obscure Vedic stories," he said. He keeps it "extempore, fluid, he says, and finds the lack of structure liberating. Meanwhile, Pant, who spoke in Hindi had 4.3k views on YouTube and Kalia’s video got 2.9k views and 114 comments. Publishers calculate that this is the perfect time to appeal to readers. "With people spending all their time at home, and much of it online, it made sense to give them reading options," says publisher David Davidar of Aleph Book Company, which is running a campaign called 21 Days, 21 Stories, where they make one book or excerpt freely available everyday. Juggernaut, another publishing house, made its catalogue free on March 21 under the #Readinstead Online Literature Festival for the duration of the lockdown. "For those who read, and there are still many who do, it is very important in times like these. It provides a sort of sanctuary when you feel threatened by this torrent of worrying news. There’s a limit to how much television you can watch, or games you can play, they don’t let you take things at your own pace -- that’s something books do," says Davidar. On Twitter, Hindi publishing house Rajkamal Prakashan has announced a list of authors for live storytelling sessions. We roped in 70 authors, who went live on Facebook for a duration of 20 minutes to 60 minutes and interacted with the audience, says Satyanand Nirupam, editorial director, Rajkamal group. Instagram is also being put to use. They also plan to shift all these videos to their YouTube channel. "I have been deluged with recommendation requests from friends for books on parenting, cookery, health, humour, business, self help, fiction and so on, and I feel this is a great time to discover and rediscover the love for reading. Families in India have been at home for weeks now and mothers are coping with distance or e-learning for their children. It is indeed a most unusual time,"says Milee Ashwarya of Penguin India. Video storytelling sessions have also received enthusiastic feedback. On Penguin's Instagram page, several authors have collaborated to build a story and leave it at a cliffhanger for another author to build on. They post their videos under the hashstag Penguin TV. "On an average, we are able to create 100,000 impressions with each episode of #PenguinTV," says Niti Kumar, senior vice president of marketing, digital and communications at Penguin Random House India. The Jaipur Literature Festival has also marked its presence online under the banner JLF-in-Exile. It went online last week. "All-star line-up includes Simon Schama, Alain de Botton, Edmund de Waal, Shashi Tharoor, James Mallinson, Bee Rowlatt, Abhinav Chandrachud and Peter Frankopan," tweeted festival director William Dalrymple.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/storytelling-poetry-baithaks-make-a-buzz-as-lit-goes-live-in-lockdown/articleshow/75150164.cms||Anam Ajmal
April 15, 2020||Nagpur||Life more important than anything else: Recovered patients||Nagpur: Life is more important than anything else, assert the city’s second and fourth positive patients as they returned to normal life at the end of their 14-day home quarantine period after discharge from the hospital. From Monday, both the recovered Covid patients have started regular work. Both IT professionals were admitted to Government Medical College and Hospital (GMCH) on March 12 after being tested positive for coronavirus infection. They had travelled to the USA with a colleague, who turned out to be the city’s first positive patient and their nightmare started soon after they landed in the city. Unlike the first patient, both were asymptomatic. Though they were discharged from the hospital on March 28, they were asked to be remain home quarantined for 14 days. “It was a nightmarish period. These 30 days seemed like a year, but at the end of the day I am happy to be back to the normal life,” says the fourth patient. Echoing same sentiments, the second patient said the entire month was eventful. “I’ve categorized this period into five phases. Right from the initial phase of shock, trauma and panic to sense of satisfaction after end of the hospitalization and home quarantine, I’ve experienced it all,” he says. “This one month taught us life’s lessons. Despite strong desire to take daughters into lap or touch parent’s feet after return to home, we were unable to do so. We used to wash our clothes and utensils,” they said. To get rid of boredom, both the IT professionals slowly started their regular work while in the home quarantine period. From Monday, both have started their regular work from home that stretched beyond eight hours. “I started my day after eating a sweet given by parents, who were much relieved. Then I got back to my work at 10am and interacted with my colleagues. It boosted my spirits,” says the fourth patient. “I along with my daughters performed exercises together in the morning for the first time and then I started my work at about 10.30am. The kids were initially confused about what had happened to me. At present, I am not focusing on the official work and colleagues are helping me out,” said the second patient. Both the recovered patients not only thanked the doctors and health care workers at GMCH for giving them a new lease of life, but also their family members, friends and relatives for supporting them at the moment of crisis. Both also lauded efforts of the NMC officials and police for playing a big role in containing the deadly contagion. “Every day, NMC and police officials used to visit us for enquiring about our health and spraying sanitizers. They also used to take our waste separately, while cops used to keep watch as to whether we were following the quarantine rules or not. Hats off to all these workers, who’re risking their lives for containing the spread of the deadly virus,” they say, adding that they had never seen government machinery so much active.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/life-more-important-than-anything-else-recovered-patients/articleshow/75148818.cms||Vaibhav Ganjapure
April 15, 2020||Mumbai||Rate of positive cases in Mumbai doubles in two weeks||MUMBAI: The percentage of people testing positive for coronavirus in the city is steadily on the rise. Numbers indicate that from the beginning of April, when the rate of positivity was hovering around 3%, it has nearly doubled to 6% now. The city had 1,756 cases as on Tuesday. Similarly, for Maharashtra, which has the highest number of Covid-19 cases and deaths in the country, the rate of positivity of samples tested reached 5.4% on Tuesday, a jump from 3.8% seen on April 1. Data sourced from the BMC showed that at the national level, the rate of positivity has been oscillating between 4.2% to 5.8% over the last fortnight. Maharashtra so far has carried out 46,588 tests, of which Mumbai alone has contributed over 23,000. City experts said the near doubling of positivity rate could be indicative that more people are testing positive, but a conclusion can’t be drawn about spread. Infectious disease consultant Dr Om Srivastava said positivity rate has its limits as it mainly depends on who is getting tested. “If an equal number of samples are tested every day, we could perhaps draw some conclusion,” he said. Another doctor, who didn’t wish to be named, said there is a rise in numbers which cannot be denied. “An ideal way to look at the spread in the community would be to check patients from ICUs, which is still not happening in a big way. Another approach will be to look at numbers from consistent settings for a clearer picture,” the doctor said, adding that Mumbai, of course, is nowhere close to an epicentre like New York that has seen a positivity rate of up to 50%-55% on certain days. Additional municipal commissioner Suresh Kakani said the positivity rate is a result of meticulous contact tracing and testing. “For every index patient who is positive, we are testing around 30 contacts. If five are coming positive out of that, I wouldn’t be so worried. Because of this exercise, we may continue to see cases for another week or more,” he said. “However, compare that number with the fever clinics started in the community. We have screened nearly 7,000 in our fever clinics and tested over 500 from there and found only 5-6 positive cases. That shows us the infection is not in the community still and definitely not spreading in a major way,” Kakani said. At the state level, an official said for most days, positivity has ranged between 4.4% to 4.7% , but with the addition of 352 cases on Monday, the highest singleday jump, the rate too has shot up. “The positive percentage is still comparatively low due to the number of tests carried out.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/rate-of-positive-cases-in-mumbai-doubles-in-two-weeks/articleshow/75150180.cms||Sumitra Debroy
April 15, 2020||Gurgaon||Haryana: 18 mobile teams to screen 300 Palwal villages for Covid-19||GURUGRAM: In a massive combing exercise to check Palwal residents for Covid-19 symptoms, the health department has formed 18 mobile teams that will visit 300 villages over the next 15 days to collect travel and contact data, and medically screen every resident. Each team will have a doctor, a nurse, an auxiliary nurse midwife worker and a paramedic who will travel in vans to designated villages. The district has reported a total of 29 cases so far. Out of this, 28 were related to the Tablighi Jamaat congregation held in Delhi last month. Officials of the health department say that since majority of the cases were people who are residents of other states or countries, and were only discovered in Palwal, this kind of exercise will help identify any person who has not come forward despite being in the contact chain. “We are launching this drive in order to ensure that Palwal turns into a Covid-free district at the earliest. The teams will note down travel and health history of each resident, and will collect data from the entire district to isolate the infected from the healthy,” said civil surgeon Dr Brahmdeep Sandhu. The department revealed 10 mobile teams will scan the Hatin block which has reported the highest number of cases, and two will inspect the urban areas of the district. The department has five ambulances to take any suspected case to the hospital where they will be isolated and tested. The teams will also conduct awareness drives about sanitation and precautionary measures.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/gurgaon/18-mobile-teams-to-screen-300-palwal-villages-for-covid/articleshow/75149796.cms||Ipsita Pati
April 15, 2020||Bengaluru||Karnataka: Stricter lockdown in week ahead, says CM BS Yediyurappa||BENGALURU: The state government on Tuesday said it would strictly implement lockdown measures till April 20. Excise commissioner V Yeshwanth ordered closure of liquor shops till April 20, much to the dismay of many consumers. Vlubs, bars & restaurants and liquor outlets have been closed for almost a month. The Centre is expected to give relief in areas which are not Covid-19 hotspots after a review. “The situation will be reviewed on April 20 for graded relaxation of containment norms in sync with the Centre’s guidelines,’’ chief minister BS Yediyurappa said. He also appealed to people “to follow the seven steps the Prime Minister gave in his speech”. The lockdown extension till May 3 was a disappointment for the Karnataka government which was hoping for graded lifting. Having bucked the national average with 12 of 30 districts not reporting any positive cases, the state hoped that Modi would give the green signal for partial lifting of the lockdown. Deputy chief minister and IT-BT minister CN Ashwath Narayan had scheduled a video conference with industry captains but cancelled it. “We thought it’s better to wait for the PMO’s advisory,” Narayan said. “Based on the Centre’s guidelines, we’ll formulate a policy for relaxation of norms for the rural economy, industry and sectors that provide labour,’’ Yediyurappa said. Sources said a decision would be taken on April 20 with regard to opening of liquor shops, plying of autorickshaws and allowing industries, IT-BT and garment units to open. Home minister Basavaraj Bommai said there would be strict checking and more barricades erected to restrict unnecessary movement of people. The Union government is also planning micromanagement of hotspots to contain the pandemic.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/karnataka-stricter-lockdown-in-week-ahead-says-cm-bs-yediyurappa/articleshow/75150186.cms||Sandeep Moudgal
April 15, 2020||Ranchi||Officers can use force if necessary, says Alam||Ranchi: State urban development minister Alamgir Alam (Congress) on Tuesday said the protests and vandalism were “shameful” and administrative officials and the police have been instructed to use force, if necessary, against those who obstruct them from discharging their duties in view of the novel coronavirus outbreak. The minister’s statement came hours after teams from the health department and the police faced resistance from locals while transferring three Covid-19 patients from Ranchi’s Hindpiri locality to Rims. BJP also condemned the incident in Hindpiri and said the government is “biased” in handling of the virus outbreak. Talking to TOI on Tuesday Alam, “What happened in Hindpiri on Monday night is shameful. The government has asked people from all sections of society to cooperate with doctors and health workers during their screening campaign. The administrative officials must use force when necessary if locals obstruct them from doing their work.” The Muslim-dominated Hindpiri has emerged as the Covid-19 hotspot in Ranchi, but health and sanitation workers, deployed in the area for screening and sanitation drives, have complained that they are regularly being heckled by the residents of the area. Chief minister Hemant Soren, who has asked people to cooperate with the health workers and comply with the lockdown, has so far remained silent on such incidents in Hindpiri despite being prodded on several occasions. State minority affairs minister Haji Hussain Ansari did not respond to calls when contacted. Alam and Ansari (both Congress) are the two ministers from the minority community in Soren's 11-member cabinet. BJP, the single largest opposition party in the Jharkhand assembly, has accused the JMM-led coalition government of adopting a biased approach in its handling of the virus outbreak. State BJP spokesperson Pratul Shahdeo said: “There have been many reports of lockdown violations in the area, but no action has been taken. On Monday night, people pelted stones on ambulances and broke open the barricades, but the administration did not lodge any case against the perpetrators. The government has still not come out of its mentality of appeasement politics.” Accusing the administration of working under political influence, Shahdeo said: “No action was taken against those who spat on sanitation workers, but the administration lodged FIRs against many identified and unidentified persons who took to the streets to object to burying the corpse of a Covid-19 casualty in a cemetery close to their homes citing health risks." Defending the government’s stand, Alam said: “The government is not biased on any lines, be it religious or political. We are repeatedly urging denizens to come forward and fight the pandemic together.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/officers-can-use-force-if-necessary-says-alam/articleshow/75147214.cms||Dhritiman Ray
April 15, 2020||Kolkata||Bengal steps up migrant vigil in border districts||Kolkata: The Bengal government has asked SPs of districts sharing borders with neighbouring states to stay alert over possible migrant worker exodus in the wake of the massive stir at Bandra station in Mumbai on Tuesday. The communiqué mentions that extension of the nationwide lockdown till May 3 may trigger “restlessness among stranded people” and thus, an increased vigil in sensitive areas is imperative. “All measures are to be taken to maintain law and order, and special attention should be paid to stop circulation of objectionable content on social media,” a senior state official said. DGP Virendra has instructed his men to keep tabs on migrant workers from Bihar, Jharkhand and Odisha who are staying in bordering district camps in Bengal. An official said the alert had been issued to West Midnapore, Birbhum, West Burdwan, Purulia, Malda, North Dinajpur, Alipurduar and Jalpaiguri, among others. Many workers from Assam and other northeastern states are stranded in north Bengal districts. Over 150 onion farm labourers from Bihar are camping at Balagarh railway station, where the Hooghly district authorities are providing them with meals. Another 100 construction workers from Odisha, who were returning on foot via East Midnapore, have been placed under quarantine at Goghat in Hooghly.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/bengal-steps-up-migrant-vigil-in-border-districts/articleshow/75149830.cms||---
April 15, 2020||Ranchi||Dhanbad MP, aides advised 14-day home quarantine||Sindri: The district administration advised Dhanbad BJP MP P N Singh, his driver and a bodyguard to remain in 14-day home quarantine after they returned from Delhi by road. They had returned to Dhanbad on Sunday. Dhanbad deputy commissioner Amit Kumar said, “After getting information of their return, we sent a team comprising BDO Uday Rajak and circle officer Prashant Layak to the MP’s home on Tuesday. The MP and his aides have been advised home quarantine. We have also decided to conduct thermal screening of all those who came in contact with the MP in the last two days.” Talking to TOI, the MP said that he travelled amid the lockdown only after getting a nod from the Delhi police commissioner.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/dhanbad-mp-aides-advised-14-day-home-quarantine/articleshow/75147353.cms||---
April 15, 2020||Ranchi||No water on Mondays, Thursdays in several city pockets||RANCHI: The district has decided to start water rationing in some parts the city from Thursday onwards as the water level in one of the three water reservoirs has receded. In a notification, the water and sanitation department said parts of Ranchi will not receive drinking water on Mondays and Thursdays from February 16. It said the move has been necessitated as supply from Hatia dam will stop on these two days every week. Water levels in two catchment areas of the dam — Bero and Nagri — after a poor Monsoon last year, the notification said. The dam, one of the three reservoirs in the state capital, feeds around two lakh residents of the city. The dam’s executive engineer, Riyaz Alam, said, “There will be no supply on Mondays and Thursdays in areas like HEC residential area, Hatia railway station, Ranchi airport, Birsa Chowk, Hinoo, Darzi Mohalla, Bandhu Nagar, Prakash Nagar, Gandhi Nagar and Shukla Colony.” He added, “Areas under Doranda and North office water tank — Ashok Nagar, Harmu, Nivaranpur and Nepal House — will remain unaffected as they will be supplied from the Rukka Dam until further orders.” The Hatia dam supplies nine million gallons of water per day to a population of around two lakh in its command area. HEC industrial area alone needs 0.5 million gallons per day for its smooth functioning. Officials said the department is looking for alternate ways to streamline supply by exploring connectivity with nearby perennial rivers in the future. Notably, water and sanitation minister Mithilesh Thakur had directed department officials to explore ways to connect Hatia Dam with the North Koel river, a few weeks ago. BOX Smooth power supply from Wednesday: JBVNL Amid soaring temperatures, several localities of the state capital reported regular power outages over the last few days, with electricity officials on Tuesday linking the problem to a failure at the Tenughat Thermal Power Station (TTPS). General manager (commercial) of the Jharkhnad Bijli VItran Nigam Limited (JBVNL) Rishi Nandan said, “We are going through a shortage of power as both the units at TTPS have tripped. When they started functioning again, the Tenughat-Biharsharif line witnessed a fault leading to the power cuts. We are working on it. Supply will be smooth from Wednesday.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/no-water-on-mondays-thursdays-in-several-city-pockets/articleshow/75147405.cms||---
April 15, 2020||Hyderabad||AP cop croons ‘corona song’ to spread awareness on Covid-19||After coming up with various initiatives, including dressing up as Lord Yama, the God of Death, or wearing ‘corona’ helmets, the Andhra Pradesh Police have now come up with a corona song to spread awareness about the virus and urge people to stay indoors. KGV Saritha, Additional SP, Women’s Wing, AP Police lent her voice to a four-minute-20-second ‘corona song’, which has gone viral on social media. Speaking to Hyderabad Times, Saritha says, “We noticed that a lot of youngsters are still coming out on the streets and violating lockdown norms. Many still feel that coronavirus only affects people who have travelled abroad. Today, we have over 400 active cases of Covid-19 in Andhra Pradesh and I realised that we need to send a strong message to the masses. That’s when I decided to come up with this Corona song.” Saritha, who wrote the song herself, recorded it in an in-house studio at the Police Headquarters in Vijayawada. “Although I’m not a professional singer, I used to sing a lot during my school days. I used that experience to sing this song in local dialect to make sure people understand the gravity of the situation. This is the biggest fight of our lives and the only weapon we have is social distancing. People should take this lockdown seriously and make lives easier for us,” she adds. Cops feel that friendly policing is the need of the hour at a time when tensions are high due to the ongoing pandemic. “Such initiatives are much-needed to spread awareness and it is good to see people in our department coming up with such ideas. Our duty is not just to enforce the law during a crisis situation but also to spread awareness through our artistic skills. Police department is putting in all the necessary efforts and all we expect is cooperation from citizens, especially from youngsters. Together we can beat this deadly pandemic and get back to our normal lives,” says Dwaraka Tirumala Rao, Commissioner of Police, Vijayawada.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/ap-cop-croons-corona-song-to-spread-awareness-on-covid-19/articleshow/75147733.cms||Thadhagath Pathi
April 15, 2020||Kolkata||Math model predicts slow Covid win with localised lockdown||KOLKATA: A localised lockdown of 22-29 days, in a community of 43-68 people where Covid-19 outbreaks have been reported, can help eradicate the disease in two-three years in India, predicts a mathematical model designed by four sen-ior researchers, three of them from the prestigious Indian Statistical Institute (ISI) and All India Institute of Hygiene and Public Health (AIIHPH). The yet-to-be-published paper, which is mapping state-wise findings, also predicts that any fresh infections after the eradication might not be as potent. For India, the paper says, the TEST (Temporary Eradication of Spread Time) or required lockdown period is around 29 days, and the estimated TTE (Time to Extinction, or time taken for the disease to be eradicated), is around two years. India is likely to have another wave of infection after around a year, but that will be unable to create a pandemic, according to the paper. “These are mathematical models designed with available data,” said Indranil Mukhopadhyay, ISI professor and head of the Human Genetics Unit, who has co-authored the paper. “However, we must factor in that this is a new disease and we have little disease-specific knowledge to fall back on.” The paper makes a strong case for localised lockdowns in specific zones after a general lockdown. “...lockdown, in its truest sense, may not be feasible in a vast and diverse country like India. So, targeted or focused lockdown of selected high-risk population might be a cost-effective option compared to a generalised lockdown. This would mean saturating screening for cases and identifying the critical number of contacts”, the paper says. Bandana Sen, a senior researcher with AIIHPH, said the paper “provided evidence that even after the lockdown phase, multiple waves of the disease may recur, but it will hopefully not create a pandemic situation”. “Even in such recurrences in future, as soon as one infected person is identified, we can implement the local quarantine policy, where a group of people, the maximum number being CCS (critical community size), may stay together in clusters. So, following lockdown rules strictly is the only way to fight out Covid-19 in absence of a specific treatment or vaccine,” Sen added. Sarmistha Das, a senior researcher at ISI, said: “If the exposed group is larger than the CCS, we can split them in subgroups, each of size at most of a CCS, and quarantine them separately. Careful and detailed surveillance is required to trace all such exposed and infected individuals. Moreover, this localised lockdown or quarantine would help maintain the flow of daily life and might prevent, at least to some extent, the economy from being weakened further.” The researchers said their finding also mirrors the ground-level observations from Bhilwara in Rajasthan, where a complete localised lockdown yielded impressive results. Available reports showed that the first case in Bhilwara was detected on March 19, and by March 30 there were 26 cases in the district. From March 20, the administration promptly implemented strict lockdown, case detection, contact-tracing, and clustering of contacts, which eventually helped restrict new cases to only one till April 9.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/math-model-predicts-slow-covid-win-with-localised-lockdown/articleshow/75149806.cms||Saibal Sen
April 15, 2020||Ranchi||CM welcomes lockdown extension, calls for more stringent enforcement||Ranchi: Jharkhand chief minister Hemant Soren welcomed the extension of the nationwide lockdown till May 3 on Tuesday. Soon after the PM’s address, Hemant in a statement said, “Extension of the lockdown is important for the fight against coronavirus which has been declared as a global fight. We all have to follow and enforce it more rigorously. On our end, the state government is working all measures to help public both within the state and those stranded outside. Soon, we shall roll out financial help for the stranded migrants through direct benefit transfers.” On Monday, the state cabinet approved the government’s plan of providing Rs 1,000-Rs 2,000 directly into the bank accounts of around seven lakh migrants who are stranded outside Jharkhand as a part of an immediate economic relief. Hemant said, “Identification and verification of the data is underway and money transfers shall begin soon based on the recommendations of the local legislators from their constituencies.” State finance and food and public distribution minister Rameshwar Oraon also supported the lockdown extension. Oraon, along with state health minister Banna Gupta, on Tuesday visited Lohardaga district to take stock of the situation. Oraon said, “Lockdown will be enforced more stringently now. At the same time, we are ensuring that no one remains hungry. Foodgrain allotments have already been dispatched to all the districts. We are also working out plans to further strengthen the supply chain of essentials and extend all possible relief to farmers by procuring their produce at from their door steps. Plans are being worked out for this.” Oraon’s party — Congress — on the other hand criticized the PM for not clarifying about the relief to farmers. Congress spokesperson Alok Dubey said, “We support the lockdown extension, but we also expected the PM to speak in more details on ways to extend relief to farmers, daily wagers etc to help their livelihoods as it matters most of the people in a poor state like Jharkhand.” On the other hand, the cabinet secretariat and vigilance department on Tuesday formed a four-member cabinet sub-committee to monitor and recommend action to prevent the spread of Covid-19. A total of 24 Covid-19 positive cases, including two casualties, have emerged so far. As per the notification of the sub-committee, Oraon is tasked to coordinate with the governments of other states to resolve the problems faced by stranded labourers and ensure arrangements of relief material to them besides steady supply of food to all needy in the state. State labour department minister Satyanand Bhokta will be responsible for coordinating with various departments to resolve the problems. Transport minister Champai Soren is assigned the responsibility to maintain the supply chain of essentials while health minister Banna Gupta has the responsibility of coordination in the sub-committee for smooth execution.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/cm-welcomes-lockdown-extension-calls-for-more-stringent-enforcement/articleshow/75147303.cms||ASRP Mukesh
April 15, 2020||Ranchi||Yamraj hits Deoghar roads to enforce Lockdown 2.0||Dumka/Hazaribag: Yamraj, the God of death in Hindu mythology, and his emissary Yamdoot roamed the streets in the temple town of Deoghar soon after Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Tuesday extended the nationwide lockdown imposed to contain the spread of the novel coronavirus until May 3. Deployed by the police to remind the people about the perils of stepping out of their homes during the coronavirus outbreak, the harbingers of doom were seen sitting on top of patrol vehicles warning locals that they would be taking those violating social distancing and hygiene protocols to the underworld. “I am Yamraj and coronavirus is my agent. It will bring you all to me if you do not adhere to the government instructions. Stay home,” the loudspeakers blared. Yamraj’s monologue, originally in Hindi, was translated into the local language as well. Deoghar SDPO Vikas Chandra Srivastava said, “We engaged local artists to spread awareness among residents. The drive will continue throughout the lockdown period and extend to rural pockets of the district soon.” A similar initiative was rolled out in Dhanbad district recently and Hazaribag also adopted the idea. In Hazaribag, “Corona Yamraj” is travelling on police vans under Lohshinga police station and other parts of the town with a warninng song on loudspeakers. Hazaribag SDPO Lal Kishore said, “We made a havildar wear a special costume and play the role of Yamraj. The move has been appreciated by the people. He said the idea is to sensitize people with a pinch of humour as an alternative approach to “danda” policing. “While we are taking action against violatiors, ‘Corona Yamraj’ is a soft way to engage the people,” Kishore added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/yamraj-hits-deoghar-roads-to-enforce-lockdown-2-0/articleshow/75147389.cms||Abhijit Sen
April 15, 2020||Ranchi||Protests, vandalism in Hindpiri as team tries to move Covid cases to Rims||Ranchi: Massive protests erupted in the state capital’s Hindpiri area on Monday night when a district administration team reached the Muslim-dominated locality to transfer three Covid-19 patients to Rajendra Institute of Medical Sciences (Rims). The three patients were taken to Rims only around 5am on Tuesday after the team held talks with the locals and community elders. An FIR against six named and around 500 unnamed persons has been filed various sections of IPC at Hindpiri police station on Tuesday in connection with the incident. With all 11 positive cases (10 active, one dead) in the city reported from this locality, Hindpiri is the epicentre of the novel coronavirus in Ranchi. The first case of Covid-19 in Jharkhand was detected in this area when a 22-year-old Malaysian woman, who attended the Tablighi Jamaat markaz in Delhi, tested positive for the disease on March 31. About 11.30pm on Monday, hours after three persons tested positive here, two teams from Kotwali police station, led by DSP Ajit Kumar Vimal and officer in-charge BrijKishore Jha, and four ambulance were dispatched to Hindpiri’s Kurban Chowk and Thana Gali to transfer them and their primary contacts to Rims. While Jha convinced a 35-year-old male patient that moving to Rims was in everybody’s best interest, Vimal’s team faced massive protests Kurban Chowk, with hundreds blocking the road. A policeman, who was at the spot, said, “Around 500 people armed with lathis gathered on the streets near Gwalatoli chowk, Kurban Chowk and Sarfaraz Chowk, shouting slogans against the administration to stop us from taking the patients to Rims. They said the administration was hatching a conspiracy to target Muslims and kill their families at Rims.” The drivers of the ambulances, which were being vandalized, said when the protests started becoming violent and targeting the ambulances, they began reversing their vehicles to return to base sadar hospital, but the police held their nerve and kept trying to pacify the crowd. The impasse broke early morning only after senior officials, including Ranchi deputy development commissioner (DDC) Ananya Mitta and senior SP Anish Gupta, and others rushed to the spot and held several rounds of meeting with the locals and community elders. While the locals finally relented after officials’ intervention and allowed the patients to be moved to Rims, sources in the administration said seven family members of the confirmed cases are yet to be moved to an isolation centre set up at the hospital. Talking to TOI, Ranchi SDM Lokesh Mishra said, “We managed to shift the patients to Rims at 5am on Tuesday. We have taken cognizance of the protests, sloganeering and the attempts to disrupt our work and will soon initiate legal action against all those who stopped us from performing our duty and violated the lockdown orders.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/protests-vandalism-in-hindpiri-as-team-tries-to-move-covid-cases-to-rims/articleshow/75147177.cms||Gaurav Pandey
April 15, 2020||Hyderabad||After woman's death in Hyderabad's old city, 17 of family test coronavirus positive||HYDERABAD: A 65-year-old woman from Hyderabad's old city, who was declared Covid-19 positive after she died on April 11, has infected nothing less than 17 members of her family with the virus. This is the highest number of positive cases detected in one family in Telangana so far. Health officials say it is also an indication of the extreme speed at which the virus can jump from one person to another. A worrying factor is that officials have no clue how the woman contracted the virus. They have joined hands with municipal authorities to intensify contact tracing and started a house-to-house survey the area. Residents voluntarily put barricades in Old City area Authorities are also taking extra precautions in the old city's Talab Katta area where the woman lived given that her funeral was completed even before her positive test results arrived.  Samples of as many as 41 persons, including family members and neighbours, were collected on April 13 after which the family members, including two minors, tested positive. The affected persons have been shifted to Gandhi Hospital for treatment while the remaining have been put in isolation wards in Nizamia Unani Hospital. As news of the woman's death and test results spread in the old city, many residents voluntarily put up barricades to prevent outsiders from entering their localities. The government has also declared the area around her house a containment zone and restricted movement of people. The woman had been suffering from a heart ailment and was taken to a private hospital for initial treatment. Later, she developed complications and was shifted to Gandhi Hospital where the doctors collected her blood samples. After she died, the family members performed her funeral at a graveyard in Begum Bazaar area. It was only after this that the test results arrived.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/after-womans-death-in-hyderabads-old-city-17-of-family-test-coronavirus-positive/articleshow/75151052.cms||---
April 15, 2020||Bengaluru||BMTC's skeletal services ferry 13,000 passengers a day||BENGALURU: The Bangalore Metropolitan Transport Corporation (BMTC) is proving to be the city's lifeline once again. Though most public transport modes are off the road, the transport utility is ferrying an average of 13,000 passengers a day. BMTC is operating 160 buses to and from all major hospitals to ensure frontline workers, including medical staff, security personnel and others, are not stranded. Those who don't have cars and two-wheelers depend on these services. Before the shutdown, BMTC used to operate 6,161 buses and its daily ridership was 36 lakh.  M Raghavendra, a BMTC driver said, "Our services are helping mainly those working in hospitals. If we don't operate, they will face some difficulties. This is the time we all should help each other." BMTC officials said skeletal services will continue till the lockdown ends. "Each bus carries only up to 20 passengers to maintain social distancing. We also check their ID cards and passes issued by police to ensure they are genuine passengers," said a senior BMTC official. Some medical professionals have complained about less frequency, forcing them to wait for long to get a bus. However, BMTC officials said they are ready to operate more buses if emergency service providers give them a specific route and timings.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/bmtcs-skeletal-services-ferry-13000-passengers-a-day/articleshow/75150217.cms||Christin Mathew Philip
April 15, 2020||Noida||Noida gets own labs, wait time for Covid-19 reports reduces to 24 hours||NOIDA: Samples of Covid-19 patients or those being screened for the infection are now being tested in Noida, cutting down on the waiting period for results to 24 hours from a minimum of two days. Samples from the city, one of UP’s two main Covid-19 hotspots alongside Agra, were till recently being sent to Jawaharlal Nehru Medical College (JLNMC) in Aligarh and some to National Centre for Disease Control (NCDC) in New Delhi. But with GIMS, the Covid hospital in Greater Noida, opening its own testing lab and the National Institute of Biologicals (NIB) also accepting samples from Noida for tests, the city’s Covid-19 diagnosis mechanism is now self-sufficient. Testing speed will improve further next week when the other state-run Covid hospital, Child PGI, gets approval from the Indian Council of Medical Research to start testing. Quicker availability of reports will also reduce the waiting period of those at quarantine facilities, which are getting more crowded by the day. The anxious wait also has a demoralising effect. Reports from the Aligarh lab and NCDC took at least two days. GIMS began testing from Sunday. NIB, which had been getting samples through ICMR from across western UP and Delhi since April 4, started testing Noida samples from last Saturday. “At GIMS, there’s one testing machine which has a capacity to test 60 samples at a time in one shift (a shift is of eight hours and the lab works all day in three shifts),” said Brig RK Gupta (retd), director, GIMS. Noida district magistrate Suhas LY said funds had been released to open testing centres at both GIMS and Child PGI. “Out of the two, GIMS was better prepared, had got the machine and began testing from Sunday while Child PGI will begin operations from next week. We are in fact getting samples from outside — Meerut, Saharanpur, etc — and shifting some of the load from Aligarh now to Noida. The idea is to have quick access to reports,” he said. Dr DK Singh, chief medical superintendent of Child PGI, said the order for Covid-19 testing machine had already been placed. “Since these machines are imported, firms take some time to arrange them. Apart from that, we have to run some test samples and send them to ICMR for approvals/certification before we can start testing. All this takes about 14 days. We will begin trials from next week,” he said. Increasing testing speed is important because Noida has targeted increasing daily sample collection to 300-400 from the 100-150 at present. Till April 12, the total samples collected were only 1,344, a number that will have to substantially increase over the next few weeks if aggressive testing at the hotspots is to be carried out.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/noida/noida-gets-own-labs-wait-time-for-covid-reports-reduces-to-24-hours/articleshow/75149410.cms||Meenakshi Sinha
April 15, 2020||World||Trump halts WHO funding, with world on edge over virus lockdowns||WASHINGTON: US President Donald Trump on Tuesday cut off funding to the World Health Organization, accusing the UN body of mishandling the coronavirus crisis as governments grapple with how and when to get their struggling economies back to work. The deadly pandemic has already killed more than 125,000 people and infected nearly two million worldwide since it first emerged in China late last year. The novel coronavirus has also upended the lives of billions of people as nations imposed lockdown measures to curb its spread- undoubtedly reducing the death toll but also sending the global economy into a tailspin. As the tally of deaths and new infections appears to begin to level off, world leaders and citizens are fiercely debating when to lift stay-at-home orders. Trump said he could see "rays of light" on the horizon for the world's largest economy, but launched a virulent attack on the WHO for "severely mismanaging and covering up the spread of the coronavirus." "We have deep concerns whether America's generosity has been put to the best use possible," Trump told reporters at the White House as he announced a halt to WHO funding. He accused the Geneva-based agency of propagating "false information about transmission and mortality," and charged that its reliance on Chinese data had "likely caused a 20-fold increase in cases worldwide." The US contributed $400 million to the WHO last year. Trump had made no secret of his contempt for what he calls a "China-centric" institution, but his caustic barbs were sure to raise hackles- especially when the crisis is far from over. Some shops in Austria and Italy reopened Tuesday, one day after Spain allowed construction and factory workers to return to their jobs. But France extended its nationwide lockdown for another month, and India extended confinement orders for its 1.3 billion people until at least May 3. And dire economic forecasts poured in throughout the day. The International Monetary Fund predicted the "Great Lockdown" would spark the worst global downturn since the Great Depression of the 1930s. The Washington-based IMF said the global economy is expected to shrink by three percent this year- and the US economy is expected to contract by 5.9 percent. "Much worse growth outcomes are possible and maybe even likely," it said. IMF chief economist Gita Gopinath said in 2020 and 2021, global GDP could slip by three percent or about $9 trillion- "greater than the economies of Japan and Germany combined." But if the virus is contained and economies can begin operating again, 2021 should see a rebound of 5.8 percent, the Fund added. Individual governments also issued gut-wrenching outlooks- France said its economy would shrink by a worse-than-expected eight percent in 2020, and Britain predicted a 13 percent drop in GDP. More on Covid-19Coronavirus pandemic: Complete Coverage21-day lockdown: What will stay open and what won'tHow to quarantine yourself at homeTrust the newspaper for your daily verified newsIn a bit of good news, the US Treasury announced a deal with the country's major airlines aimed at keeping workers paid and avoiding bankruptcies in an industry that employs 750,000 people. Details were not immediately disclosed. Around the globe, some countries showed signs of setting off on the long road back to normalcy. Vienna's popular Favoriten shopping district drew mask-clad shoppers after the government allowed some small stores as well as hardware and gardening shops to reopen across Austria, which has been spared the worst of the virus. "I just hope by God that it's not too early" to ease the lockdown, 75-year-old pensioner Anita Kakac told AFP. In Italy, children's clothing shops and bookstores opened their doors Tuesday, but some fearful owners kept their boutiques shuttered. Italy's death toll is now above 20,000 -- the second worst after the US, though far higher per capita -- but deaths and infections have eased off. Denmark planned to open some of its schools Wednesday after a month-long shutdown, and the Czech government said it would begin easing lockdown measures on April 20. WHO chief Tedros Adhanom Ghebreyesus has warned that control measures "must be lifted slowly," noting that the coronavirus was 10 times deadlier than the 2009-10 swine flu outbreak. In the United States, the death toll in hard-hit New York state soared when officials added thousands of suspected deaths in New York City to the total. But new hospital admissions and infections in the state were down, and Governor Andrew Cuomo offered a glimmer of hope. "We are changing the curve, every day. We've shown that we control the virus -- the virus doesn't control us," Cuomo said. Trump sparked controversy on Monday by implying he could force state governors and city mayors to send people back to work at his command. On Tuesday, he insisted the federal government and state leaders were working together to come up with a workable solution, and that he and the governors were "all getting along." But the Republican president, who is running for re-election in November, also warned: "The governors are responsible. They have to take charge. They have to do a great job." Local leaders on both US coasts have banded together and said they will make their own decisions -- and proceed with caution. "I don't want to make a political decision that puts people's lives at risk and puts the economy at even more risk," California Governor Gavin Newsom said. Watch US President Donald Trump halts US payments to WHO||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//world/us/trump-halts-who-funding-with-world-on-edge-over-virus-lockdowns/articleshow/75150239.cms||---
April 15, 2020||Navi-mumbai||APMC grain market may not open on Wednesday over deadlock||NAVI MUMBAI: While APMC vegetable and onion-potato markets will open on Wednesday, APMC’s grain market is unlikely to resume operation as traders, workers and transporters alleged they were not taken into confidence by the APMC administration before finalising guidelines like the cap on number of vehicles, passes, regulating entry of visitors, recording buyers details and enforcing social distancing. Differences between the administration and traders-workers are unresolved despite three meetings. However, APMC additional secretary Avinash Deshpande said “We have enough groceries. Over 4 lakh quintals of foodgrains have reached Mumbai market.” Anil Chavan, Mumbai APMC administrator and secretary, said, “Drafting rules for operation of grain market is finalised after discussions with all stakeholders. We hope the market reopens soon.” Mathadi leader Narendra Patil told TOI, “Social distancing is our major concern. I can’t put my people at risk.” Nilesh Veera, director of APMC grain market, said, “We met top bureaucrats who assured all help to traders and workers. But APMC administration is not serious on redressing our grievances and is not consulting us to find a way out.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/navi-mumbai/apmc-grain-market-may-not-open-today-over-deadlock/articleshow/75150249.cms||B B Nayak
April 15, 2020||Chandigarh||Jawaharpur ahead of five states, two UTs||MOHALI: Jawaharpur village in Mohali district's Derabassi area has outnumbered many states in the number of cases. Out of 56 cases in Mohali, Jawaharpur accounts for 68% cases at 38. All these cases are from seven households in the village. One more case was confirmed in the village on Tuesday - a 56-year-old cousin of the 42-year-old panchayat member, the first case in the village. Jawaharpur has higher positive cases than Chandigarh (21), Himachal Pradesh (32), Uttarakhand (35), Assam (31), Chhattisgarh (31), Jharkhand (24) and Ladakh (15). However, till date none of the positive cases from Jawaharpur have recovered. In Jawaharpur, 243 samples have been taken and 201 have been found negative. The result of five samples is awaited. A 42-year-old member of the panchayat was the first case in the village. He had direct contact with 243 people out of whom 37 have tested positive. The panch was involved in distributing community meals to poor and was helped by six families related to him. The panch infected 35 relatives belonging to three families and two shop owners of the village. The infected age group ranges from a six-month-old infant to a 71-year-old woman.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/jawaharpur-ahead-of-five-states-two-uts/articleshow/75150259.cms||Barinderjit Saluja
April 15, 2020||Kolkata||Kidney patient’s death shuts down MCH wards in Kolkata||KOLKATA: The death of a Covid-19 positive patient has led Medical College and Hospital Kolkata (MCH) to shut down the male and the female medicine ward as a precautionary measure. Healthcare workers who had come in contact with the deceased are being identified. On Monday, the hospital had sealed the gynaecology ward after a patient had tested positive to coronavirus. The deceased, a woman from Baranagar, was a patient of chronic kidney disease and was being treated at Charnock Hospital. But as the private hospital off VIP Road was shut down temporarily for a disinfection drive, the patient’s family had to shift her to MCH on Sunday. Doctors the emergency ward said the patient’s condition was unstable and she was already having respiratory distress. They had asked the patient’s family to take her to a facility like MR Bangur Hospital as the patient was a high Covid suspect and she might require intensive care any time. “The patient’s family did not agree to our suggestion. The hospital officials instructed us to admit her in the medicine ward,” said a doctor in the hospital. The patient was lodged in the female medicine ward for the whole of Sunday and shifted to the isolation ward for Covid-19 patients only on Monday morning, when a senior doctor on round insisted. The patient died late on Monday night. Charnock Hospital had sent the patient’s swab samples before she was shifted to MCH. The confirmatory report came late on Monday night and it was communicated to MCH officials on Tuesday morning. “By this time, at least one faculty member, three post-graduate trainees, six interns and a few more nurses had come in contact with the patient at the medicine ward. Thank God the doctor at the emergency had all protection while examining the patient,” said a doctor at the hospital. Doctors manning the emergency ward said that much of this trouble could have been avoided had the hospital administration heeded to their suggestion to refer the patient to a covid treatment centre that had intensive care facility or admit her in the isolation ward right from the beginning. The patient was kept beside other patients in the isolation ward through the night and a better part of the day till a special ambulance and health department officials took her away on Tuesday evening. Around 20 healthcare workers who had come in contact with the deceased have been identified so far and their swab samples will be tested. Calls to the principal, the medical superintendent and the vice-principal went unanswered. Sources said even a few CCU beds that were created in the superspecialty building to tend to Covid-19 patients who need intensive care have been removed and all equipment shifted after the plan to convert MCH into a Covid hospital was shelved. It has become difficult for healthcare workers to work in the isolation ward in their PPE as air-conditioning has been done away with as attempts at creating negative pressure failed. They claimed that they had suggested to create the isolation ward in the old building that had sufficient ventilation.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/kidney-patients-death-shuts-down-mch-wards/articleshow/75149540.cms||Sumati Yengkhom
April 15, 2020||Kolkata||West Bengal: Two more private hospital doctors, laboratory technician test positive||KOLKATA: The list of frontline healthcare providers infected by Covid-19 in the state got longer after an emergency medical officer, a senior orthopaedic surgeon and a laboratory technician joined it on Tuesday. While the medical officer is attached with Charnock Hospital, the lab technician works at the lab at ICMR-NICED where Covid-19 samples are being tested and the surgeon is attached with Belle Vue Clinic. The lab technician is a resident of Nimta under North Dum Dum Municipality. According to sources, she would commute from her home to the NICED facility in Beliaghata daily. On feeling symptoms of infection, she was admitted to ID Hospital on Friday. Her samples ,which were tested at NICED itself, confirmed the infection. Officials at ID Hospital said the patient is doing well and she has mild symptoms. Four family members of the woman, including her husband and two kids, have been kept under observation at the quarantine centre in Rajarhat. Other technicians who worked with her in the same shift have been alerted but none of them have been put on quarantine as all had proper protective gear while on their job. After getting the information, the North Dum Dum Municipality went on a sanitization drive at the locality where the women lived with her family in Ward 11. “We have carried out a massive sanitization work in the locality, including the local market. We are also trying to trace if anyone had come in contact with her,” said municipality chairman Subodh Chakraborty. According to locals, another ward in Nimata is already sealed after a doctor with a private hospital was found positive a few days ago. The 69-year-old surgeon has been shifted to AMRI Hospital in Salt Lake on Tuesday night after his reports came in. Sample of the emergency medical officer was among the samples taken from three healthcare workers in Charnock hospital. The other two tested negative. Sources said all were asymptomatic but they had come in contact with a renal failure patient who later tested positive. The doctor is now being treated at MR Bangur and he is doing fine. Earlier, a floor manager of the hospital had tested positive.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/two-more-private-hospital-doctors-laboratory-technician-test-positive/articleshow/75149553.cms||Sanjib Chakraborty
April 15, 2020||Chandigarh||18,000 migrant labourers stuck in Tricity||CHANDIGARH: Around 18,000 migrant labourers are stuck in the Tricity and want to leave for their native states of Bihar and Uttar Pradesh. The data has been prepared by local intelligence unit with railway officials covering Chandigarh, Panchkula, Mohali, Kalka, Baddi, Parwanoo, Derabassi Zirakpur and Lalru. Last week, the railway board had asked divisions about labourers or residents stuck in their areas, states they needed to travel and how many trains would be required in case of a relaxation in lockdown. In Chandigarh, there are around 7,000 migrant labourers in Vikas Nagar, Mauli Jagran, Bapu Dham and Dhanas. In Punjab, around 6,000 are in Derabassi, Zirakpur and Lalru, and around 3,500 in Baddi and Parwanoo. In Panchkula and Kalka, 3,000 migrant labourers are putting up in relief camps.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/18000-migrant-labourers-stuck/articleshow/75150274.cms||Aarti Kapur
April 15, 2020||Kolkata||Covid-19 testing gathers pace in West Bengal, NICED bats for more||KOLKATA: The state government has tested over 3,000 Covid-19 samples till Tuesday, with nearly 1,000 being tested in the last three days, a senior state health department official said on Tuesday. Around 659 samples were tested till April 1 and on Tuesday, this figure stood at 3081, the officer said, adding that there will a sharp rise in the number as the state intensifies testing at high-risk spots. As criticism mounted after NICED director Shanta Dutta expressed concern over the “less samples” coming to NICED for tests, the state official said, “The numbers are indicative that after ICMR changed the testing protocols and permitted more facilities to conduct tests in Bengal, the numbers have spiked.” Even on Tuesday, Dr Lal PathLabs Ltd received a nod from ICMR for Covid-19 testing. Bengal now has six government and six private testing facilities. TOI had reported on Monday that the state government has started sending more samples to ICMR-NICED from Sunday for Covid-19 tests. The NICED director, however, stressed that Bengal needs to test more. “It is high time we start conducting tests on people residing at microspots identified by the health department. Tests must be conducted even when people don't show symptoms. This will help us find out if there has been any case of community transmission. And conducting swab tests is not a big deal,” Dutta said. “We must also start conducting door-to-door tests in Bengal, which has a dense population. This will help us get a clearer picture on the degree of contamination,” she said. “If we were to compare, the number of tests conducted in other states is far higher...it is a state subject and the government has to take a call on this,” she added. Dutta’s statement has sparked a volley of political criticism. BJP state president Dilip Ghosh has already spoken on the issue. CPM state secretary Surjya Kanta Mishra alleged while Bengal’s population is 7% of the country’s population, the tests in Bengal has only been 1.5% to the total tests conducted in India. The Bengal government hasn’t formally responded to this. “Initially, samples were sent to NIV Pune. Later, NICED Kolkata started testing. Later, sanctions were given to SSKM and SPM. More tests are taking place with more facilities getting testing nod from ICMR. These are avoidable comments,” a senior officer said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/covid-19-testing-gathers-pace-in-bengal-niced-bats-for-more/articleshow/75149584.cms||---
April 15, 2020||Business||India to grow 1.9%, global economy to shrink 3%: IMF||NEW DELHI: India’s economy is forecast to grow by 1.9% in 2020-21, the International Monetary Fund (IMF) said on Tuesday, as it estimated the global economy to contract by 3% due to the devastating impact of the Covid-19 outbreak.  The international agency’s estimate for India is in line with forecasts by other economists and investment banks, Goldman Sachs estimates growth to slow to over 30-year lows of 1.6% in 2020-21, while the World Bank expects GDP growth in India to be in the 1.5% to 2.8% range, depending on extent of the pandemic.  The latest IMF forecast puts India as one of the fastest growing major economies even in the midst of the Covid-19 devastation, although it will be the slowest pace of expansion since the 1991 balance of payments crisis. In its latest economic assessment released on Tuesday, IMF said China is expected to grow by 1.2% in 2020-21 and rebound to 9.2% next year. The Indian economy too is projected to expand at 7.4% next fiscal as the impact of the Covid-19 outbreak is contained. Barclays economists projected a more pessimistic picture, estimating zero growth for India in 2020 (calendar year), and only 0.8% during the fiscal 2020-21.  “Under the assumption that the pandemic and required containment peaks in the second quarter for most countries in the world, and recedes in the second half of this year, in the April World Economic Outlook we project global growth in 2020 to fall to -3%. This is a downgrade of 6.3 percentage points from January 2020, a major revision over a very short period. This makes the Great Lockdown the worst recession since the Great Depression, and far worse than the Global Financial Crisis,” said IMF chief economist Gita Gopinath.  She said for the first time since the Great Depression, both advanced economies and emerging market and developing economies are in recession. For this year, growth in advanced economies is projected at -6.1%. Emerging market and developing economies with normal growth levels well above advanced economies are also projected to have negative growth rates of -1.0% in 2020, and -2.2%, if you exclude China.  Barclays said while India’s Covid outbreak has not officially reached the community transmission stage, it believed the existing restrictions on movements are causing much more economic damage than anticipated. It pointed out that the shutdown was hurting even those sectors that were classified as ‘essential’ and expected to continue operations even during the lockdown.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/india-to-grow-1-9-global-economy-to-shrink-3-imf/articleshow/75150265.cms||---
April 15, 2020||Bengaluru||Bengaluru: 30% of cops to get a week’s break||BENGALURU: Bengaluru police personnel, including those deployed for Covid-19 duty and the ones at police stations, will get a week’s compulsory break on rotation. Thirty per cent of the staff will be able to take leave each week. The move comes in the backdrop of police being saddled with excess work during the lockdown. The system will start in a day or two. Karnataka State Reserve Police (KSRP) and City Armed Reserve (CAR) personnel deployed in the city are eligible for the break. Police commissioner Bhaskar Rao on Tuesday held a meeting with eight zonal deputy commissioners of police (DCPs) and decided that 30% of the staff from each police station (both law and order and traffic) should stay back at home for a week. After a week, another 30% will go on leave, while the first batch will resume duty. “This move serves two purposes. Since the lockdown, staff are working hard in three shifts and they need some rest. Secondly, those off work will be like a reserve force in case any of their colleagues on the field tests positive for Covid-19. If one person tests positive, then the entire staff of his or her station will have to be quarantined,” Rao told TOI. However, staffers on ‘compulsory break’ are not supposed to leave Bengaluru. “Their service could be required at any point of time and they should be in a position to report back to duty in less than 30 minutes of the summons,” an officer said. Though the city has a 16,500-strong police team, only about 12,000 are considered as working employees or staff on the field. “Writers, constables on sentry duty, drivers with other vehicles like KSRP and CAR vans, staff working at different control rooms, sleuths working in the wireless office, Criminal Investigation department and Records Bureau add up to about 4,000. We’re considering the 12,000-odd staff on the field for the break,” the officer said. However, another senior officer expressed doubts over the plan working smoothly. “Giving a break to 30% of the force at a time like this seems risky. Only 10% of the staff should have been given leave for one week,” he felt||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/30-of-cops-to-get-a-weeks-break-in-bengaluru/articleshow/75150258.cms||Santosh Kumar R B
April 15, 2020||Chandigarh||Five cops tests negative in Chandigarh||CHANDIGARH: Five cops having symptoms of cough, cold and fever have tested negative for novel coronavirus. The police department had sent their samples as a precautionary measure. Eight cops and some of their family members who had visited foreign countries have been quarantined. Manoj Meena, SP, headquarters, said all cops deployed at high-risk zones are screened daily. A team of doctors from the police lines hospital, Sector 26, take temperature of the cops after asking them questions related to their health, the SP said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/five-cops-tests-negative-in-chandigarh/articleshow/75150286.cms||Pawan Tiwari
April 15, 2020||Chennai||Booze cases on high, man dies after drinking methanol in Tamil Nadu||CHENNAI: As the lockdown put Tasmac outlets out of business, tipplers across the state are turning desperate with some paying with their lives and others knocking at bootleggers’ doors. While a 55-year-old man who consumed methanol to get a high in Cuddalore district died on Tuesday, as many as 1,689 liquor cases were registered and 2,119 people were arrested across nine districts in the north zone from March 26 to April 13 — most of it for arrack. M Chandrakasu, the victim, and three others, R Ezhilvanan, A Mayakrishnan, and Sundararaj, who fell ill after consuming methanol were admitted to the Cuddalore GH on Sunday. According to police, K Kumaresan, who works at a pesticide manufacturing firm at the Sipcot industrial estate in Cuddalore, stole one litre of methanol from the unit on Sunday and gave it to Sundararaj who mixed it with water and consumed along with the other three. Meanwhile, 33,083 litres of illicit arrack, 92,381 litres of raw materials and 826 litres rectified spirit have been seized since the lockdown in Javadi hills, Jamunamarathur, Yelagiri, Tirupattur, Vellore, Tiruvallur and Kancheepuram. A total of 441 illicit arrack cases have been registered in Salem range comprising Salem, Namakkal, Dharmapuri and Krishnagiri districts from April 5 to 12. Salem range DIG Pradip Kumar said though cases against illicit liquor are filed all through the year, their numbers have jumped now. Forests of Salem and Dharmapuri conducive for brewing illicit liquor He observed that large pockets of Salem and Dharmapuri districts with good forest cover and hills make it conducive for setting up distilleries to brew illicit liquor. “Kalvarayan hills, which shares border with Salem, Dharmapuri and Kallakurichi districts is notorious for illicit liquor making,” he said. A Tamilarasan, a former bootlegger in Arunuthumalai area near Karumandurai atop Kalvarayan hills, is now a reformed farm labourer. He said two varieties of illicit liquor are prepared in Tamil Nadu. The first uses rice, wheat, maize, jaggery and citrus fruits, whereas alkaline battery acid and even crushed glasses are used for the other variety. Some even add dead lizard, alprazolam tablets, pain reliever balms and urea for stronger kick. He said that earlier, “arrack used to be sold in small packets of Rs.100. Now, due to police raids, they are sold in one litre packs for Rs 800.” Brewing illicit arrack is taking new forms and is also prepared at home using pressure cookers. Three of the 10 cases registered by the Kanyakumari district police in a special raid on Sunday were against those who used pressure cookers to make it in houses. “Seizure in the cases ranged from meagre volumes of two litres arrack,” a senior police officer. The number of illicit arrack incidents is on the rise over the last five to six days. According to a senior police officer in Salem region, tipplers are mostly economically downtrodden and don’t have money to buy IMFL liquor bottles that are sold at exorbitant rates in the black market. “One quarter (180 ml) bottle rum of a popular brand is sold for Rs 850 now while the price fixed by the government for full (750 ml) bottle was Rs 840,” he said. The police are keeping track of former bootleggers who claimed to have reformed after serving jail term to keep illicit arrack under check. (With inputs from Bosco Dominique, V Senthil Kumaran, A Selvaraj and M K Ananth)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/booze-cases-on-high-man-dies-after-drinking-methanol-in-tamil-nadu/articleshow/75150280.cms||---
April 15, 2020||Chandigarh||Allow few Haryana officials to visit offices in Chandigarh: Manoj Parida||CHANDIGARH: UT adviser Manoj Parida has requested the Haryana chief secretary to not allow too many government officials to attend offices in Chandigarh, and restrict their entry. The matter was discussed in a recent review meeting chaired by UT administrator V P Singh Badnore. Sources said the administration had received information that a large number of officials of the Haryana government were attending offices along with their staff in the city. UT adviser Manoj Parida said they have requested the Haryana government to manage offices with minimum possible staff. Badnore also stated that the neighboring districts of Mohali and Panchkula must follow the restrictions strictly. He said since the entire area is geographically contagious and many residents move from one place to another in connection with work and shopping, it will be difficult to have variant policies in the Tricity. Unlike Mohali and Panchkula, the administration is strict in issuing e-passes for movement during the curfew in Chandigarh. Till April 13, the administration received around 38,000 online requests for issuance of e-passes, but it only issued 3,500 to residents. Before issuing any e-pass, the administration officials are checking all the details, including relevant documents attached with the application. The UT had introduced the facility of e-pass on March 28. A UT official, who is involved in issuing e-pass, said the administration is strict in following the curfew orders and accordingly issuing passes. "We are issuing passes for medical emergency, cremation and distribution of essential items," he said||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/allow-few-haryana-officials-to-visit-offices-in-chandigarh-manoj-parida/articleshow/75150288.cms||Rajinder Nagarkoti
April 15, 2020||Kolkata||Old recipes, new greetings usher in 1427||Kolkata: When IT professional Panchali Kar posted a recipe of home-cooked rosogolla on Facebook along with a photo of the syrupy white balls that she had prepared for Nababarsha, it prompted Delhi-based Joveria Sabbah to share her ‘nolen gur’ version of the rosogolla as well. This Nababarsha has turned into a perfect occasion for many youngsters to try out traditional recipes. From rosogolla, kalakand and pantua to kochur shaak-er bharta, chhanar nabaratna korma and fruit custard — authentic Bengali cuisine is staging a comeback on lockdown menu, thanks to the enthusiasm of homebound chefs who would earlier rely on restaurants and takeaways for such delicacies. Koyel Mukherjee's spread with rice, chicken kosha, chutney, fruit custard, mishti doi and chutneyCompletely confined to her Picnic Gardens’ residence, Anumita Dutta R0y tried her hands at making jilipis at home during lockdown. It was her first attempt. Though tad nervous, the coil of batter fried and steeped in syrup turned out almost as good as what the family were used to buying from local shops. “It had become a habit for us to have jilipi for breakfast. Since we were all missing it during lockdown, I called up my friends and asked them for the recipe. Besides, YouTube videos came handy too,” she said. Purbachal resident, who prepared rosogolla at home on Tuesday evening. Anumita Dutta Roy's gilipiSwati Ghosh too tried her hands at making gulab jamun and patua. “Nowadays, the price of all these sweets are skyhigh at the local shops. So, I rustled up these with the help of YouTube,” she said. Anumita Dutta Roy's rosogollaNot just sweets, there has been a rise in preparing non-veg authentic Bengali cuisine. While a section of critics isn’t too pleased with the display of food in times in crisis, those sharing the recipes insist that they are not trying to hurt any sentiments. Sumi Dey, who runs a cookery group called Amader Bangalir Rannaghor on Facebook since 2017, has seen a rise of 500 members daily since lockdown was imposed. “New members are trying these recipes at home. Some have admitted to have had no interest or experience in cooking earlier. They have picked up so well that they are even starting home delivery services. New couples staying away from parents or non-resident Indians are also learning. We are encouraging members to experiment with whatever they have at home,” said Dey, while referring to the delicacies prepared by group members Rakhi Banerjee Mazumdar, Koyel Mukherjee and Angshula Chakraborty. Angshula Chakraborty's kalakandKrishna Mallik, a member of this group, has been regularly sharing her recipes with newcomers. “With them, I have already shared recipes of muri ghonto, dhokar dalna, echorer kaliya, dudh sukto, pachmeshali dal and doi paneer. For Nababorsho, I prepared six kinds of fries along with desi chicken kasha and mango chutney,” she said. Panchali Kar's kochur shaaker bhorta Kar went a step further and also shared ‘kochur shaak’ recipe with an annotated note explaining two ways in which taro stems (kochu saak) are prepared in both sides of the border. “There are two popular recipes for taro stems or ‘Kochu Shaak’, as we call it in Bengali. People, who are originally from West Bengal, prepare it with lentil tablets, lentil dumplings, whole gram, and coconut. This happens to be a slightly sweet mishmash kind of a preparation. The other one is the popular Bangladeshi recipe where taro stems are cooked with Hilsha head. This is comparatively on the hotter side. This particular Bhorta or Sauté is probably a lesser popular Bangladeshi preparation, originating from Barishal district. However, our next-door Bihari neighbor, too cooks this particular recipe, when it comes to taro stems,” Kar wrote adding that her sautéed taro (colocasia) stems with nigella and garlic paste preparation costs less than Rs 15 and “some good amount of manual labour”.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/old-recipes-new-greetings-usher-in-1427/articleshow/75149612.cms||Priyanka Dasgupta
April 15, 2020||Kolkata||Vegetable prices likely to cool off from Wednesday in West Bengal||KOLKATA: The soaring price of vegetables since Saturday is a temporary phase as vendors tried to jack up the price, eyeing at Poila Baishakh. Market insiders said the prices are likely to swing back to normal from Wednesday. However, unlike every year, the intake of vegetables was much less because Poila Baishakh remained a low-key affair within the four walls of home. “A huge quantity of vegetables used to be procured by hotels and restaurants. So, on Tuesday, I returned from the market with one third of my vegetables unsold. I have to sell them at distressed price tomorrow,” said Shankar Palodhi, vendor at Jadubabus’s Bazar. The upswing of vegetable prices at retail market was because of Poila Baishakh. The wholesale price, however, remained very low. The wholesale price of Tomato was Rs12-13/kg. But it was selling in retail market at Rs 25/kg. wholesale price of parwal was Rs 20, but it was sold at Rs 35-Rs 40/kg, said Kamal Dey, president, West Bengal Vendors’ Association. However, only aberration was potato. The price of potato (Jyoti variety) was sold at Rs28-30/kg. The wholesale price of potato on Tuesday was Rs18.30/kg. “The spike of potato price is because of labour issue. There is hardly any loading unloading labourer at arats in Hooghly, which constricted the supply,” said Dey. The price of lemon, however, plunged dramatically. The price of lemon rose to Rs 10- Rs 12/piece last week. On Tuesday, the price plunged to Rs 3.5/piece. “Lemons were sold between Rs 150— Rs 200 for 100 pieces. With supply of lemon from Tamil Nadu steadying a lot, the price of lemon should dip further in retail market as well, said Dey.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/vegetable-prices-likely-to-cool-off-from-today/articleshow/75149618.cms||Krishnendu Bandyopadhyay
April 15, 2020||Bengaluru||Villager tries to grab government land to build house, booked in Bengaluru||BENGALURU: Madanayakanahallli police registered a criminal case against a villager for allegedly grabbing government land and trying to construct a house on the plot in KG Lakkenahalli, off Tumakuru Road, on Saturday.  Shivaraj, tahsildar of Bengaluru North, filed a complaint against Damappa, a resident of KG Lakkenahalli. Police stopped the construction work the same day. Damappa was accused of grabbing land next to the village main road and trying to build a structure. As construction was under way, the tahsildar asked cops to rush to the spot and stop the work.  Damappa claimed he had not encroached upon the land. Police asked him to furnish documents related to the disputed land.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/villager-tries-to-grab-government-land-to-build-house-booked-in-bengaluru/articleshow/75150297.cms||---
April 15, 2020||Chandigarh||Chandigarh: 30 grace marks for IX, XI students||CHANDIGARH: The UT education department has decided to give 30 grace marks to students of classes IX and XI and to not fail any student this year. The students who do not pass despite the grace marks will be put under compartment and given one more chance to reappear after May 15. This was stated by Rubinderjit Singh Brar, director, school education. Results of both the classes will be declared on April 20. "The matter has been discussed with all the senior officers of the department and heads and finalised in consultation with the senior officers of the UT administration. The aim is to improve pass percentage and reduce stress of students in the wake of the lockdown," he said. The education department had done away with the grace marks policy in 2018 after more than 50 per cent students failed in Class X board exams. These students were given 15 grace marks in Class IX. Following poor result, show cause notices were issued to many teachers and principals. Some were even suspended. Teachers have questioned the move. "The department wants to improve pass percentage of Class IX, but if the batch performs badly in Class X next year, teachers will be issued notices. The department should reconsider its decision and let all students who fail reappear," said a senior teacher . When asked, how the decision will affect class X results next year, Brar refused to comment. The result criterion is yet to be shared with the school heads.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/chandigarh-30-grace-marks-for-ix-xi-students/articleshow/75150299.cms||Kamini Mehta
April 15, 2020||Chandigarh||JERC: No fixed charges from industry for 3 months||CHANDIGARH: The Joint Electricity Regulatory Commission (JERC) has directed the UT electricity department to provide moratorium on payment of fixed electricity charges to all industrial and commercial consumers for three months from April to June. However, city based industrialists and traders termed the directions as mere eyewash and instead of moratorium, the department should waive off fixed charges completely during the lockdown period. The JERC in its latest order to department said, "A moratorium on payment of fixed charges is provided to all industrial and commercial consumers for the bills raised during the period from March 24 to June 30, which they can avail if they so desire. These deferred charges shall be recovered in an equated manner over the next three bills to be raised after June 30". Naveen Manglani, president, Chamber of Chandigarh Industries, said the directions are a mere eyewash. The department is in profit from last 3-4 years, which they have also submitted in their petition before the commission. In this lockdown period, when industries are closed and there is no business, the department should waive off fixed power charges, which is the least they can do for the industrial sector, he suggested. Industrialist Mukesh Bassi, who is also member of Industries Association of Chandigarh, said businessmen are finding it difficult to pay wages to their employees.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/jerc-no-fixed-charges-from-industry-for-3-months/articleshow/75150305.cms||Rajinder Nagarkoti
April 15, 2020||Chennai||Tamil Nadu universities to divert equipment for tests||CHENNAI: Universities in the state are joining the fight against the Covid-19 pandemic by diverting sophisticated real time polymerase chain reaction (RTPCR) equipment to state medical colleges and hospitals to enable PCR tests. The public health department is sourcing the equipment from University of Madras, Bharathiar, Bharathidasan, Periyar, Manonmaniam Sundaranar, Madurai Kamaraj and Alagappa universities, TANUVAS and TN Agriculture University (TNAU). The Indian Council for Medical Research (ICMR) has approved 16 laboratories to test for Covid-19 through RT-PCR method, but there is an urgent need for additional equipment to increase the testing capacity. “At least 17 Quant Studio RT-PCR equipment and other models from the biomedical science departments of seven varsities have been identified and two each from Tanuvas and TNAU have already been diverted in the last few days,” said a senior official. Health department sources said the state now has 50 pieces of RT-PCR equipment, including 21 recently procured. Each piece of equipment can handle 96 samples at one time and give results in four hours. N Kumar, vice-chancellor of TNAU from where equipment was sent to Coimbatore and Madurai medical colleges, said they offered training to technicians too. The Tamil Nadu Medical Services Corporation received 10,000 PCR kits from the Centre and procured on its own 1.05 lakh kits, including 90,000 on Tuesday. S Dhanapal, head of microbiology at KAP Viswanathan Government Medical College in Trichy, said two pieces of equipment had been received from Bharathidasan University. “Round-the-clock testing has begun in Trichy government medical college for Covid-,” he said. M S Mohamed Jaabir, head of biotechnology and microbiology at National College Trichy, said the testing can also be done with basic PCR equipment available in almost all the arts and science colleges in the state, while Bharathidasan University’s biotechnlogy department head S Sivaramakrishnan said the state could utilise expertise of the research scholars from the varsity who are trained in the process.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/tamil-nadu-universities-to-divert-equipment-for-tests/articleshow/75150302.cms||Julie Mariappan
April 15, 2020||Puducherry||Tamil Nadu universities to divert equipment for tests||CHENNAI: Universities in the state are joining the fight against the Covid-19 pandemic by diverting sophisticated real time polymerase chain reaction (RTPCR) equipment to state medical colleges and hospitals to enable PCR tests. The public health department is sourcing the equipment from University of Madras, Bharathiar, Bharathidasan, Periyar, Manonmaniam Sundaranar, Madurai Kamaraj and Alagappa universities, TANUVAS and TN Agriculture University (TNAU). The Indian Council for Medical Research (ICMR) has approved 16 laboratories to test for Covid-19 through RT-PCR method, but there is an urgent need for additional equipment to increase the testing capacity. “At least 17 Quant Studio RT-PCR equipment and other models from the biomedical science departments of seven varsities have been identified and two each from Tanuvas and TNAU have already been diverted in the last few days,” said a senior official. Health department sources said the state now has 50 pieces of RT-PCR equipment, including 21 recently procured. Each piece of equipment can handle 96 samples at one time and give results in four hours. N Kumar, vice-chancellor of TNAU from where equipment was sent to Coimbatore and Madurai medical colleges, said they offered training to technicians too. The Tamil Nadu Medical Services Corporation received 10,000 PCR kits from the Centre and procured on its own 1.05 lakh kits, including 90,000 on Tuesday. S Dhanapal, head of microbiology at KAP Viswanathan Government Medical College in Trichy, said two pieces of equipment had been received from Bharathidasan University. “Round-the-clock testing has begun in Trichy government medical college for Covid-,” he said. M S Mohamed Jaabir, head of biotechnology and microbiology at National College Trichy, said the testing can also be done with basic PCR equipment available in almost all the arts and science colleges in the state, while Bharathidasan University’s biotechnlogy department head S Sivaramakrishnan said the state could utilise expertise of the research scholars from the varsity who are trained in the process.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/puducherry/tamil-nadu-universities-to-divert-equipment-for-tests/articleshow/75150511.cms||Julie Mariappan
April 15, 2020||Madurai||Tamil Nadu universities to divert equipment for tests||CHENNAI: Universities in the state are joining the fight against the Covid-19 pandemic by diverting sophisticated real time polymerase chain reaction (RTPCR) equipment to state medical colleges and hospitals to enable PCR tests. The public health department is sourcing the equipment from University of Madras, Bharathiar, Bharathidasan, Periyar, Manonmaniam Sundaranar, Madurai Kamaraj and Alagappa universities, TANUVAS and TN Agriculture University (TNAU). The Indian Council for Medical Research (ICMR) has approved 16 laboratories to test for Covid-19 through RT-PCR method, but there is an urgent need for additional equipment to increase the testing capacity. “At least 17 Quant Studio RT-PCR equipment and other models from the biomedical science departments of seven varsities have been identified and two each from Tanuvas and TNAU have already been diverted in the last few days,” said a senior official. Health department sources said the state now has 50 pieces of RT-PCR equipment, including 21 recently procured. Each piece of equipment can handle 96 samples at one time and give results in four hours. N Kumar, vice-chancellor of TNAU from where equipment was sent to Coimbatore and Madurai medical colleges, said they offered training to technicians too. The Tamil Nadu Medical Services Corporation received 10,000 PCR kits from the Centre and procured on its own 1.05 lakh kits, including 90,000 on Tuesday. S Dhanapal, head of microbiology at KAP Viswanathan Government Medical College in Trichy, said two pieces of equipment had been received from Bharathidasan University. “Round-the-clock testing has begun in Trichy government medical college for Covid-,” he said. M S Mohamed Jaabir, head of biotechnology and microbiology at National College Trichy, said the testing can also be done with basic PCR equipment available in almost all the arts and science colleges in the state, while Bharathidasan University’s biotechnlogy department head S Sivaramakrishnan said the state could utilise expertise of the research scholars from the varsity who are trained in the process.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/tamil-nadu-universities-to-divert-equipment-for-tests/articleshow/75150512.cms||Julie Mariappan
April 15, 2020||Trichy||Tamil Nadu universities to divert equipment for tests||CHENNAI: Universities in the state are joining the fight against the Covid-19 pandemic by diverting sophisticated real time polymerase chain reaction (RTPCR) equipment to state medical colleges and hospitals to enable PCR tests. The public health department is sourcing the equipment from University of Madras, Bharathiar, Bharathidasan, Periyar, Manonmaniam Sundaranar, Madurai Kamaraj and Alagappa universities, TANUVAS and TN Agriculture University (TNAU). The Indian Council for Medical Research (ICMR) has approved 16 laboratories to test for Covid-19 through RT-PCR method, but there is an urgent need for additional equipment to increase the testing capacity. “At least 17 Quant Studio RT-PCR equipment and other models from the biomedical science departments of seven varsities have been identified and two each from Tanuvas and TNAU have already been diverted in the last few days,” said a senior official. Health department sources said the state now has 50 pieces of RT-PCR equipment, including 21 recently procured. Each piece of equipment can handle 96 samples at one time and give results in four hours. N Kumar, vice-chancellor of TNAU from where equipment was sent to Coimbatore and Madurai medical colleges, said they offered training to technicians too. The Tamil Nadu Medical Services Corporation received 10,000 PCR kits from the Centre and procured on its own 1.05 lakh kits, including 90,000 on Tuesday. S Dhanapal, head of microbiology at KAP Viswanathan Government Medical College in Trichy, said two pieces of equipment had been received from Bharathidasan University. “Round-the-clock testing has begun in Trichy government medical college for Covid-,” he said. M S Mohamed Jaabir, head of biotechnology and microbiology at National College Trichy, said the testing can also be done with basic PCR equipment available in almost all the arts and science colleges in the state, while Bharathidasan University’s biotechnlogy department head S Sivaramakrishnan said the state could utilise expertise of the research scholars from the varsity who are trained in the process.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/tamil-nadu-universities-to-divert-equipment-for-tests/articleshow/75150514.cms||Julie Mariappan
April 15, 2020||Erode||Tamil Nadu universities to divert equipment for tests||CHENNAI: Universities in the state are joining the fight against the Covid-19 pandemic by diverting sophisticated real time polymerase chain reaction (RTPCR) equipment to state medical colleges and hospitals to enable PCR tests. The public health department is sourcing the equipment from University of Madras, Bharathiar, Bharathidasan, Periyar, Manonmaniam Sundaranar, Madurai Kamaraj and Alagappa universities, TANUVAS and TN Agriculture University (TNAU). The Indian Council for Medical Research (ICMR) has approved 16 laboratories to test for Covid-19 through RT-PCR method, but there is an urgent need for additional equipment to increase the testing capacity. “At least 17 Quant Studio RT-PCR equipment and other models from the biomedical science departments of seven varsities have been identified and two each from Tanuvas and TNAU have already been diverted in the last few days,” said a senior official. Health department sources said the state now has 50 pieces of RT-PCR equipment, including 21 recently procured. Each piece of equipment can handle 96 samples at one time and give results in four hours. N Kumar, vice-chancellor of TNAU from where equipment was sent to Coimbatore and Madurai medical colleges, said they offered training to technicians too. The Tamil Nadu Medical Services Corporation received 10,000 PCR kits from the Centre and procured on its own 1.05 lakh kits, including 90,000 on Tuesday. S Dhanapal, head of microbiology at KAP Viswanathan Government Medical College in Trichy, said two pieces of equipment had been received from Bharathidasan University. “Round-the-clock testing has begun in Trichy government medical college for Covid-,” he said. M S Mohamed Jaabir, head of biotechnology and microbiology at National College Trichy, said the testing can also be done with basic PCR equipment available in almost all the arts and science colleges in the state, while Bharathidasan University’s biotechnlogy department head S Sivaramakrishnan said the state could utilise expertise of the research scholars from the varsity who are trained in the process.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/erode/tamil-nadu-universities-to-divert-equipment-for-tests/articleshow/75150513.cms||Julie Mariappan
April 15, 2020||Salem||Tamil Nadu universities to divert equipment for tests||CHENNAI: Universities in the state are joining the fight against the Covid-19 pandemic by diverting sophisticated real time polymerase chain reaction (RTPCR) equipment to state medical colleges and hospitals to enable PCR tests. The public health department is sourcing the equipment from University of Madras, Bharathiar, Bharathidasan, Periyar, Manonmaniam Sundaranar, Madurai Kamaraj and Alagappa universities, TANUVAS and TN Agriculture University (TNAU). The Indian Council for Medical Research (ICMR) has approved 16 laboratories to test for Covid-19 through RT-PCR method, but there is an urgent need for additional equipment to increase the testing capacity. “At least 17 Quant Studio RT-PCR equipment and other models from the biomedical science departments of seven varsities have been identified and two each from Tanuvas and TNAU have already been diverted in the last few days,” said a senior official. Health department sources said the state now has 50 pieces of RT-PCR equipment, including 21 recently procured. Each piece of equipment can handle 96 samples at one time and give results in four hours. N Kumar, vice-chancellor of TNAU from where equipment was sent to Coimbatore and Madurai medical colleges, said they offered training to technicians too. The Tamil Nadu Medical Services Corporation received 10,000 PCR kits from the Centre and procured on its own 1.05 lakh kits, including 90,000 on Tuesday. S Dhanapal, head of microbiology at KAP Viswanathan Government Medical College in Trichy, said two pieces of equipment had been received from Bharathidasan University. “Round-the-clock testing has begun in Trichy government medical college for Covid-,” he said. M S Mohamed Jaabir, head of biotechnology and microbiology at National College Trichy, said the testing can also be done with basic PCR equipment available in almost all the arts and science colleges in the state, while Bharathidasan University’s biotechnlogy department head S Sivaramakrishnan said the state could utilise expertise of the research scholars from the varsity who are trained in the process.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/salem/tamil-nadu-universities-to-divert-equipment-for-tests/articleshow/75150515.cms||Julie Mariappan
April 15, 2020||Coimbatore||Tamil Nadu universities to divert equipment for tests||CHENNAI: Universities in the state are joining the fight against the Covid-19 pandemic by diverting sophisticated real time polymerase chain reaction (RTPCR) equipment to state medical colleges and hospitals to enable PCR tests. The public health department is sourcing the equipment from University of Madras, Bharathiar, Bharathidasan, Periyar, Manonmaniam Sundaranar, Madurai Kamaraj and Alagappa universities, TANUVAS and TN Agriculture University (TNAU). The Indian Council for Medical Research (ICMR) has approved 16 laboratories to test for Covid-19 through RT-PCR method, but there is an urgent need for additional equipment to increase the testing capacity. “At least 17 Quant Studio RT-PCR equipment and other models from the biomedical science departments of seven varsities have been identified and two each from Tanuvas and TNAU have already been diverted in the last few days,” said a senior official. Health department sources said the state now has 50 pieces of RT-PCR equipment, including 21 recently procured. Each piece of equipment can handle 96 samples at one time and give results in four hours. N Kumar, vice-chancellor of TNAU from where equipment was sent to Coimbatore and Madurai medical colleges, said they offered training to technicians too. The Tamil Nadu Medical Services Corporation received 10,000 PCR kits from the Centre and procured on its own 1.05 lakh kits, including 90,000 on Tuesday. S Dhanapal, head of microbiology at KAP Viswanathan Government Medical College in Trichy, said two pieces of equipment had been received from Bharathidasan University. “Round-the-clock testing has begun in Trichy government medical college for Covid-,” he said. M S Mohamed Jaabir, head of biotechnology and microbiology at National College Trichy, said the testing can also be done with basic PCR equipment available in almost all the arts and science colleges in the state, while Bharathidasan University’s biotechnlogy department head S Sivaramakrishnan said the state could utilise expertise of the research scholars from the varsity who are trained in the process.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/tamil-nadu-universities-to-divert-equipment-for-tests/articleshow/75150510.cms||Julie Mariappan
April 15, 2020||World||Italy & Austria follow Spain in easing curbs, but France extends lockdown||With cases of the coronavirus nearing the 2-million mark, and over 1,20,000 dead, the pandemic remains a potent threat around the world even as some countries begin to take careful steps to lift restrictions intended to halt the virus spread.  Spain allowed some construction work to resume and a few factories to reopen on Monday. Austria and Italy followed with a gradual easing of restrictions that allowed some small shops to reopen. But there are still strict guidelines in place, with shoppers in Austria required to wear masks and in Italy, a country brutalised by the virus, an even-more stringent lockdown continues until May.  Denmark will allow children under 11 to return to schools and nurseries later this week, after a month of closures. Poland plans to begin to "slowly start unfreezing the economy," the country's health minister said on Tuesday.  But even as nations weigh loosening restrictions, the IMF on Tuesday issued a stark warning on Tuesdaythat the global economy this year faces the worst downturn since the Great Depression, projecting that the global economy will contract by 3% in 202 0.  The WHO said the number of new cases was easing in some parts of Europe, including Italy and Spain, but outbreaks were growing in Britain and Turkey. "The overall world outbreak, 90% of cases are coming from Europe and the US of America. So we are certainly not seeing the peak yet," WHO spokeswoman Margaret Harris said .  Some Spanish businesses, including construction and manufacturing, were allowed to restart. Shops, bars and public spaces are to stay closed until at least April 26. Spain was flattening the curve on the graph, representing the rate of growth of the outbreak, health minister Salvador Illa said on Tuesday. The overnight death toll from the coronavirus rose to 567 on Tuesday from 517 a day earlier, but the country reported its lowest increase in new cases since March 18. Total deaths climbed to 18,056.  Some workers expressed concern that the relaxation of restrictions could trigger a new surge. But for Roberto Aguayo, a 50-year-old Barcelona construction worker, the restart came just in time. "We really needed it, just when we were going to run out of food we returned to work," he said.  In Italy , which has the world's second highest death toll of 21,067, bookstores, stationary stores and shops selling baby clothes and supplies were allowed to open nationwide on Tuesday, provided they could maintain the social-distancing. But there was no coherency to the openings, with some regional governors and individual shop owners deciding to keep their doors shut.  The Czech government will gradually reopen stores and restaurants from April 20.  Thousands of shops across Austria reopened on Tuesday, but the government said it was "not out of the woods". Austria acted early to close schools, bars, restaurants, non-essential shops and other gathering places about four weeks ago. Austria has reported 384 deaths in total .  Britain has the fifth-highest death toll globally. The death toll in British hospitals rose to 12,125 on Monday and foreign secretary Dominic Raab has said there would be no easing of lockdown measures when they come up for review this week. The Times newspaper said he would extend them until at least May 7. French President Macron late on Monday extended a virtual lockdown to May 11. The Covid-19 toll in France rose to 15,729 on Tuesday as the spreading of the virus in the country appears to be stabilizing. National health agency chief Jerome Salomon said France registered 762 deaths over the past 24 hours in hospitals and nursing homes.  Russia might need to call in the army to help tackle the crisis, President Vladimir Putin said. Moscow warned that the capital may run out of hospital beds in coming weeks. Health ministers from the Group of 20 major economies will speak by video conference on Sunday to address the outbreak's impact. Agencies||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//world/rest-of-world/italy-austria-follow-spain-in-easing-curbs-but-france-extends-lockdown/articleshow/75150307.cms||---
April 15, 2020||Chandigarh||10th fire at Chandigarh furniture market in 13 years||CHANDIGARH: The fire that broke out in the furniture market on the road dividing sectors 53 and 54 on Monday night was is the 10th at the same site in the last 13 years. The fire department got the call about 11 pm. Several fire tenders were pressed into service. Officials said the fire was doused at 4 am. Staff returned to their houses after finishing all formalities at around 6 am. They are still preparing the report, which will be submitted to the municipal corporation, a senior official said. According to reports, 17 shops were gutted. A preliminary report prepared by the fire and emergency wing of the municipal corporation pointed to the presence of chemicals, which shopkeepers use while making furniture, as the reason behind the blaze. The exact reason is, however, yet to be ascertained. As there was a lockdown, there was nobody in these shops. No loss of life was reported. Importantly, there were a number of fire safety violations in the market. According to information, there was no passage for the movement of fire tenders behind the shops. Besides, a majority of shopkeepers have not kept fire extinguishers to control the fire in case of emergencies. Meanwhile, the officials of the fire and emergency services, Municipal Corporation, said there is a legal problem in issuing notice to traders for fire safety violations as the market is illegal.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/10th-fire-at-chandigarh-furniture-market-in-13-years/articleshow/75150310.cms||---
April 15, 2020||Chandigarh||Disinfectant tunnels not effective: PGI||CHANDIGARH: The PGI does not recommend disinfection tunnels for checking the spread of novel coronavirus. This was deliberated during a core committee meeting on Covid-19 chaired by Prof Jagat Ram, director, PGI. Public health experts said more focus should be on social distancing, washing of hands with soap and water and cough etiquettes, early detection and containment measures, besides provision of personal protection equipment (PPE) to health workforce. The tunnels have a spray of sodium hypochlorite. Initially, it was believed that, this tunnel of sodium hypochlorite spray will work like a mass disinfectant, that is, a large number of people can be disinfected. The substance, sodium hypochlorite, is a chlorine compound often used as a disinfectant or a bleaching agent. "The use of these tunnels may give false sense of security and may have adverse health effects as sodium hypochlorite has a lot of harmful effects on the human body. Although, a 0.5% solution of hypochlorite which is known as Dakin solution is used for disinfecting areas contaminated with bodily fluids, including large blood spills, however, higher concentration of sodium hypochlorite (5%) exposure may cause nasal and ocular irritation, sore throat and coughing," said Prof JS Thakur, chairman, Covid-19 Prevention Committee, PGI. Exposure to stronger concentration (10-15%) can cause serious damages in multiple organs like burning pain, redness, swelling and blisters, damage to the respiratory tract as well as esophagus, eye damage, stomach ache, a burning sensation, diarrhea and vomiting. According to WHO, the disinfectants will work on surfaces, but not on human body.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/disinfectant-tunnels-not-effective-pgi/articleshow/75150324.cms||---
April 15, 2020||Chandigarh||Vets told to report to work in Panchkula||PANCHKULA: All veterinary doctors have been asked to re-start work at Pet Animal Medical Care Hospital in Sector 3. Medical facilities will be given to animals in villages and urban areas of the district. DC M K Ahuja said amid this lockdown, animals also need medical assistance and to keep that in mind, all veterinary doctors have been asked to join their duties. The orders came from animal husbandry department of the state government. It also stated that all the medical facilities to animals must be given and they must send request of medicine stock required to the administration.Deputy director, animal husbandry and dairy, Haryana, ordered that medical facilities to animals come under Essential Commodities Act. Medical assistance to all the animals is must and administration must make sure all are following norms issued to them at work. Those who will not join the department and will not work to provide medical assistance to the animals will face action under section 188 of the IPC.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/vets-told-to-report-to-work-in-panchkula/articleshow/75150333.cms||---
April 15, 2020||India||WHO lauds India’s ‘tough, timely’ steps||NEW DELHI: The health ministry said the 40-day lockdown was an effort towards breaking the chain of transmission through measures like social distancing and was a follow-up to the 28-day cycle, or two 14-day periods, while the World Health Organisation (WHO) commended India’s “timely and tough actions to stop Covid-19”.  “It may be early to talk about results in numbers, but a six-week nationwide lockdown to facilitate effective physical distancing, coupled with expansion of core public health measures such as detection, isolation and tracing contact of Covid-19 positive people, will go a long way in arresting the virus spread,” WHO regional director Poonam Khetrapal Singh said.  “If no Covid-19 case is reported for 28 days from a specific area, we can say we have been able to break the chain of transmission,” health ministry joint secretary Lav Agarwal said.  He added that through the lockdown, the government was trying to promote social distancing which was key to break the chain of transmission. Singh said despite huge and multiple challenges, India had demonstrated “unwavering commitment” in the battle against Covid-19. “In these testing times, the action lies as much with communities as with the authorities and the health workforce,” she said. Agarwal also said 602 dedicated Covid-19 hospitals having 1,06,719 isolation beds and 12,024 ICU beds had been readied in the country.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/who-lauds-indias-tough-timely-steps/articleshow/75150340.cms||Sushmi Dey
April 15, 2020||Chennai||Want to locate a containment zone? Tap Greater Chennai Corporation’s corona app||CHENNAI: The next time you get an unverified forward on WhatsApp claiming that your area is in a Covid-19 containment zone or a (non-existent) red zone of Chennai, all you need to do is take out your mobile phone and check the Greater Chennai Corporation’s official corona monitoring app for verification. The corporation’s corona monitoring app on Tuesday clearly demarcated the 80-odd containment zones in the city. People can zoom in on the map and view the superimposed yellow polygons with clearly demarcated boundaries on the application. Containment zones are areas where one or more Covid-19 positive cases have been registered in close vicinity. The civic body and the city police barricade a group of streets in the area, disallowing traffic into these areas. For instance, in the Mandaveli-Mylapore-Santhome area, there is just one containment zone. Two such zones are there on either side of Peters Road in Royappetah. In north Chennai, one containment area is on the west side of New Washermenpet and one bordering Ellaimannan Koil Street in Ennore. There are 80 such containment zones in the city. In south Chennai, there is one such containment zone - just off East Coast Road in JJ Nagar beyond Panaiyur. A senior official of the corporation said the map of the containment zones was released to create greater public awareness. “People shouldn’t enter these areas for buying essentials even by mistake,” the official said. With increase in number of positive cases, the containment zones would also increase, he added. The data shown in the google maps is pretty accurate, but in some cases some additional streets may have been added, the official said. This facility in the application is already a huge hit with more than 1,000 people viewing it on Tuesday alone, say sources, adding they didn’t expect such a response. The application was originally designed for capturing fever and home quarantine cases in the city. Created by MP Azhagu Pandia Raja, a research fellow at the ministry of housing and urban affairs and the Greater Chennai Corporation, it geo-tags the fever and home quarantine cases in the city based on people themselves sharing the data through the app. All one has to do is click a photo of a pillar with the home quaranrine sticker in their house and upload it on the app. The app currently has been downloaded around 40,000 times.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/want-to-locate-a-containment-zone-tap-greater-chennai-corporations-corona-app/articleshow/75150326.cms||Siddharth Prabhakar
April 15, 2020||India||ICMR: 70L test kits ordered, expected to reach anytime||NEW DELHI: Amid concerns over availability of diagnostic kits required for testing for Covid-19, the Indian Council Of Medical Research (ICMR) said it has ordered 33 lakh RTPCR testing kits and 37 lakh rapid antibody diagnostic kits are expected any time. The rapid testing kits, to be used in hotspots along with PCR tests, have been delayed for some time now. They were to reach last week, then early this week and are now said to be arriving on Wednesday.  “Yesterday, we said we have kits that could last for six weeks. We have received another instalment for RT-PCR kits which are far more sufficient in numbers,” ICMR head of epidemiology and communicable diseases R R Gangakhedkar said. “We are ordering close to 33 lakh kits for RT-PCR (reverse transcription-polymerase chain reaction) and 37 lakh rapid kits are expected to come at any point in time.”  Officials from ICMR and the health ministry maintained that testing has to be driven by process and only those who require or fit into the eligibility criteria should be tested. “Testing kits have to be used properly,” health ministry joint secretary Lav Agarwal said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/icmr-70l-test-kits-ordered-expected-to-reach-anytime/articleshow/75150351.cms||Sushmi Dey
April 15, 2020||India||India on right path, cases in many nations 30 times higher: PM Modi on Covid-19||NEW DELHI: PM Narendra Modi on Tuesday emphasised that India was on the right path in combating the Covid-19 pandemic and had done well compared to other big and prosperous nations. He said this could be possible due to the country's "quick and decisive action" and people responding to the lockdown like "disciplined soldiers".  "A month, month-and-a-half ago, several countries were on a par with India in terms of infection. But today, corona cases in those countries are 25 to 30 times that of India. Thousands have died. Had India not adopted a holistic and integrated approach, taking quick and decisive action, the situation today would have been different," he said.  Modi underlined that India had been proactive even before a single case surfaced in the country - screening of international passengers, 14-day isolation of international travellers, shutting of malls among others were taken at an early stage. His comments were seen as a response to criticism by some that not enough was done and some experts arguing that India had been deficient in testing for the disease.  The PM noted that India also proactively went into a nationwide lockdown and the country had benefited from it. He said notwithstanding the economic travails being faced, it was clearly the correct path as it protected many lives.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/india-on-right-path-cases-in-many-nations-30-times-higher-pm-modi-on-covid-19/articleshow/75150363.cms||---
April 15, 2020||Chandigarh||Mohali count 56 with two new cases||MOHALI: The novel coronavirus count touched 56, with two more people testing positive on Tuesday. One of them is from the extended family of the 42-yearold panch, the first case from Jawaharpur village of Derabassi. He is 56 years old and a cousin of the panch. Jawaharpur alone has 38 cases. The second patient is a 38-year-old maid of the Mundi Kharar woman who had died. The 78-year-old was the second person — 65-year-old Nayagaon resident was the first — to have died of Covid-19. The woman was admitted to the emergency ward in civil hospital, Kharar, on April 7 and died a few hours later. She had a history of hypertension and diabetes. Following her death, the authorities had decided samples of any person dying in the district would be tested for Covid-19. Deputy commissioner Girish Dayalan said 832 samples from across the district have been taken and 742 of them have been found negative. The result of 36 samples is awaited and active cases are 48. “Comprehensive tracing and sampling process will go on. Disinfection drives are being carried out and ration distributed in villages of Kharar,” the DC said. He said that in accordance with the instructions given by minister for rural development and panchayats Tript Rajinder Singh Bajwa, a drive for disinfection was carried out and food packets distributed in various villages of Kharar block. Villages covered under the sanitation drive were Sukhgarh, Alipur, Raipur, Nadiali, Saidpur. The administration has assured people of continuous support to prevent any hassle to the common public.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/mohali-count-56-with-two-new-cases/articleshow/75150362.cms||---
April 15, 2020||Chennai||Chennai’s air quality index continues to be moderate, shows CPCB data||CHENNAI: You’d expect the air in Chennai to be squeaky clean with most vehicles off the road and factories shut. But, the Central Pollution Control Board’s monitoring stations in North Chennai,continue to show the air quality index to be ‘moderate’ when experts said they expected it to be ‘good’. Track the pollution level in your cityProf S M Shiva Nagendra from IIT Madras said as nearly 30% of the pollution comes from vehicle exhaust, the air quality index should have been ‘good’ in the city. “Since there’s no activity, now is the situation that should give us baseline data. You cannot get this kind of situation in the future. And this data can help design policy for regulating and mitigating pollution,” he added. The air quality index is centred around five chief pollutants – PM10, PM2. 5, ozone (O3), nitrogen dioxide (NO2), and carbon monoxide (CO) . PM 2.5 comes from vehicle exhaust and reaction of pollutant gases in the atmosphere, PM 10 comes from construction sites and landfills and carbon monoxide from burning of any material and motor vehicles and NO2 from fossil fuels and O3 is from vehicles, power plants and other industries. According to CPCB's data, PM 2.5 in all the four monitoring stations in the have recorded less than the standard 80 ug/ m3, CO is less than the standard 4 ug/m3 and Ozone is 180 ug/m3. Manali village and Manali continue to recorded record air quality as moderate to unhealthy for sensitive groups. The air quality recorded in Alandur and Velachery has, however, improved. Experts blame the ‘moderate’ levels of air quality on thermal power plants and the dumpyard in Kodungaiyur, two big sources of air pollution in North Chennai. “As long as the operations of the thermal power plants and Kodungaiyur dumping yard are on, I don’t see the air quality improving drastically,” said Shwetha Narayan, coordinator, Healthy Energy Initiative India. Studies have also shown that meteorological factors like the wind plays a crucial role. Shweta Narayan said in one of the studies they conducted in 2017, they found traces of heavy metals like manganese, nickel, silica and lead, commonly found in fly ash in air samples collected in Poes Garden, which is about 30km away from the power plants in Ennore. Some other studies have also shown that power plant pollutants could travel up to 200 to 300km in the air on a windy day. Prof Nagendra said another indicator of pollution from thermal power plants could be NO2 and SO2 concentrations. According to CPCB, the concentration of NO2 at Manali village for 24 hours ending 7.30pm on April 14 was at 3.65 ug/m3 and SO2 was at 6.77 ug/ m3. At Manali, NO2 was at11.88 ug/m3 and SO2 was at 3.22 ug.m3. According to the national ambient air quality standards, the limit of SO2 and NO2 should be 80ug/m3 when monitored for every 24 hours. “I suspect it could be an issue with the monitoring station because people are unable to go. We don’t know if it’s been calibrated and is checked properly. There are things that need to be looked into. We can see the trend only after seeing the data,” said Prof Nagendran.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/chennais-air-quality-index-continues-to-be-moderate-shows-cpcb-data/articleshow/75150353.cms||U Tejonmayam
April 15, 2020||Lucknow||Restart emergency services at government hospitals: UP CM Yogi Adityanath||LUCKNOW: With the nationwide lockdown extended up to May 3, chief minister Yogi Adityanath said that it was time to restart emergency services in hospitals. The services were discontinued when the first phase of the lockdown was implemented on March 25 in an effort to control the spread of the coronavirus in hospitals. On Tuesday, as he welcomed the decision to extend the lockdown for another 19 days, the CM directed officials to prepare a plan for opening up of emergency services. Additional chief secretary (home) Awanish Awasthi said that emergency services would be started in state hospitals and those listed under the Ayushman Bharat scheme very soon. CM’S DIRECTIVE‘Farmers should face no problem in selling crop’The CM has said that all precautions should be taken to ensure that Covid-19 does not spread in these hospitals. All health staff will be provided with personal protection equipment and N-95 masks. It has been observed that patients with serious illness of kidney, liver, heart etc often report Covic-19 symptoms later. That could put the entire medical team at risk and we need to ensure that they are fully equipped to avoid such a situation,” he said. Awasthi added that the health and medical education departments should first provide training to their master trainers on how to prevent infections and they should then carry out training programmes at the district level. Under these programmes, daily training should be carried out for people connected with various health services like nursing staff, paramedical staff, NCC and NSS. The CM has said that farmers should face no problem in getting their harvest to the markets. He said that to ensure availability of food, it was crucial to maintain supply chains. Meanwhile, with harvesting of wheat taking place currently, the animal husbandry department has also been told to make arrangements for collecting hay from fields to feed cattle. In light of the lockdown extension, the CM also directed officials to review the ration distribution scheme and increase procurement of food grains. The industries department has reported that more than 5,200 manufacturing units are operational in the state currently. These include 99 units producing sanitizers, 412 units manufacturing medical equipment and medicines and 70 units 70 units producing personal protective equipment. The government has also provided financial aid of Rs 1,000 each to 12.86 lakh construction workers, 5.50 lakh daily wagers in urban areas and 3.62 lakh destitute in rural areas.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/restart-emergency-services-at-government-hospitals-up-cm-yogi-adityanath/articleshow/75150383.cms||Neha Lalchandani
April 15, 2020||Lucknow||UP government to start wheat purchase from today||LUCKNOW: CM Yogi Adityanath on Tuesday instructed district magistrates to make all arrangements for the purchase of wheat from farmers which begins on Wednesday. In a video-conferencing with top administrative and police officers, he instructed the DMs to place an officer at each purchase centre to ensure that farmers get the MSP. He instructed the officials that anyone caught indulging in black-marketing, hoarding and under-weighing of food should be charged under the Gangster Act and the National Security Act.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/up-government-to-start-wheat-purchase-from-today/articleshow/75150388.cms||---
April 15, 2020||Lucknow||Delivery of essential supplies: Centre may replicate Gorakhpur model||GORAKHPUR: The delivery of essential supplies in Gorakhpur is being hailed for its high efficiency and effectiveness in keeping people confined to their homes during lockdown and now even the Centre has approached the district administration and sought details of the system with the intent to replicate it on bigger scale. A senior official from Central government called up SDM, Sadar, Gaurav Singh Sogarwal, who has developed the delivery portal, to collect feedback on the lockdown and was highly impressed. "A senior official from the Government of India called me on Saturday to take feedback about the lockdown and the steps taken by us. When I told him about the online delivery system, he asked for a presentation so that it could be replicated in other places too if found suitable," said Sogarwal, an IAS officer of 2017 batch. ‘More than 2L orders delivered till date’We divided Gorakhour in eight zones and involved 1,400 shops, wholesalers and nine online portals for smooth delivery of essential commodities. Apart from the delivery staff of portals, we also hired around 1,000 people for delivery who are being paid by shops and portals. We spread awareness about the online delivery system by posting all details on Facebook,” he added. “People could call or send message on Whatsapp or place order directly on website with options of online and cash on delivery payment,” the SDM added. “We evolved this system after getting lot of calls in the initial days of lockdown since we had to keep people at home and deliver essentials at their doorstep,” said Sogarwal, adding, “Now even 20-25 thousand orders are being placed on some days. Till date, more than 2 lakh orders have been delivered and more than 70% people make digital payments.” “We have been able to implement lockdown and curb coronavirus spread in this way. My batch mates and seniors also called and sought details and many have replicated it in their districts,” said Sogorwal. We have deployed 50 lekhpals to check overpricing and ensure prompt delivery. The lekhpals call up as customers to check rates and availability of goods. We use their feedback for improving the supply chain, the SDM said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/centre-may-replicate-gorakhpur-model/articleshow/75150396.cms||Arjumand Bano
April 15, 2020||Chennai||Chennai civic body to collect swab samples of 40,000 for PCR test||CHENNAI: As part of the fight against Covid-19, the civic body will collect swabs samples from 40,000 people in the city and send them for tests to governmentidentified laboratories, corporation commissioner G Prakash said on Tuesday. “Of this, 10,000 will be from people inside the containment zones,” Prakash told TOI. The corporation has created 35 walk-in kiosks at various parts of the city where designated people have been asked to come and give their swabs which will then be checked through the polymerase chain reaction (PCR) tests. People living in the containment zones in vicinity of Covid-19 positive cases and those who may have severe influenza-like illnesses will be asked to give their swabs, corporation officials said. So far, such kiosks have been set up at 16 places, mainly in Royapuram, Teynampet and Anna Nagar zones which have a sizeable number of positive cases. Now that it is compulsory to wear masks while stepping out, Prakash said it would be okay if people properly cover their face with handkerchiefs. “However, if they can use cotton masks which are reusable then it will be good,” he said. The commissioner visited the Chennai Trade Centre on Tuesday to inspect the 600 isolation wards created there in case the state needs it for future patients. Meanwhile, data released by the civic body shows it has surveyed 1.42 crore households cumulatively as on Monday in their door-to-door fever checking initiative. Totally, 3,886 people have been found to have symptoms of Covid-19 like fever and cough. Of these, 3,274 have been cured while 612 will be followed up.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/chennai-civic-body-to-collect-swab-samples-of-40000-for-pcr-test/articleshow/75150433.cms||---
April 15, 2020||Lucknow||Poila Baisakh, Vishu festivities remain subdued||LUCKNOW: Subdued celebrations marked the traditional new year of Bengali and Malayali communities, Poila Baisakh and Vishu, as people remained indoors on Tuesday in view of lockdown and prayed for the safety of those battling with Covid-19 pandemic. Like many of his brethren, Suresh VK had planned to visit Lord Aiyappa Temple on the auspicious occasion of Vishu but had to stay back due to lockdown. "This year's Vishu is unlike any other that I have seen in my life. We arranged 'Vishu Kani' (seasonal fruits and vegetables are collected in a bowl to offer to God) at Lord Krishna's feet and offered 'puja' during wee hours," he said. Anil Kumar, a member of Kerala Samajam, said: "Traditionally, all family members wake up early and go to the worship area of the house with eyes closed so that the first sight is of Vishu Kani. It brings good luck throughout the year." "We also recite verses from the Ramayana. It is followed by a traditional feast, 'Vishu Sadya'," he added. It was a family affair for Bengalis too who celebrated their new year, Poila Baisakh, at home. Unable to buy any sweet dish to mark the day, Shoma Ghosh, who resides in coronavirus hotspot, AP Sen road, prepared some delicacies at home and wished her friends and relatives over phone. "This time it was a low-key affair with family members offering 'puja' at home and preparing home-made sweets," added Ghosh. President of Bengali Club Arun Banerjee celebrated the day with his mother. "We wore new clothes and prayed for end of pandemic," he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/poila-baisakh-vishu-festivities-remain-subdued/articleshow/75150448.cms||Aditi Singh
April 15, 2020||India||‘Happy hypoxia’ makes Covid-19 cases tricky||MUMBAI: Here is one of the reasons Covid-19 has emerged as a major killer: patients deteriorate quickly and collapse.  After attending to over 2,000 patients and witnessing 160 deaths, the state’s experts have prepared a dossier of sorts on the virus and its ‘novel’ manifestations and attacks. It is by now well accepted that 85% to 90% of coronavirus patients have mild to non-existent symptoms (fever, cough or breathlessness). The public health department is worried not only because the virus is new and little is known about it, but the case fatality rate here is highest in the country at 6.85%.  The dossier is an effort to list all the novel symptoms. If the virus behaves benignly in 85-90% patients, it’s tricky in the rest. The change in their health parameters could be rapid. "Several cases have been seen in Pune where the patient is laughing and talking just before deteriorating and dying in the next few hours,” said Dr Subhash Salunkhe, technical advisor to the state chief secretary. On Monday, deaths and treatment outcomes were a point of discussion in a videoconferencing meet between CM Uddhav Thackeray, the chief secretary, medical heads and doctors.  Another official said, “The need for the meeting was felt because we have to firm up our treatment plans. The fact is that a stable patient with oxygen saturation of more than 90% desaturates rapidly and collapses.” It is felt Covid-19 cases behave differently than routine ARDS (acute respiratory distress syndrome) patients who need ventilator support. ARDS or respiratory failure can be caused by many bacteria or viruses, while here it is caused by just one. This subset of Covid-19 patients needs ventilator support.  Doctors have also noticed weakened heart and kidney function among this group. An autopsy of six patients showed inflamed heart tissues, said the document.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/happy-hypoxia-makes-covid-19-cases-tricky/articleshow/75150467.cms||Sumitra Debroy
April 15, 2020||Mumbai||Mumbai coronavirus victim’s dog spends two weeks in isolation||MUMBAI: A dog was placed in an isolation kennel for 15 days after its caretaker died of Covid-19. The Pomeranian, pet to a family in suburban Mumbai’s Deonar, was taken to a veterinary hospital where it was examined for those two weeks to watch for symptoms. Tuffy, a 3-year-old male, was found to be hale and hearty, and released back to his family home. The pet’s caretaker, a 65-year-old woman, died last month after contracting the coronavirus. Seven of her relatives who lived in the same house in a chawl, were taken to a hospital for isolation as a precaution, said Krishna Shenoy, manager of In Defence Of Animals (IDA), an animal welfare trust having its veterinary facility at Deonar. “Left to fend for itself in the locked house, the dog seemed stressed,” he said. “We got a call from the BMC on March 26, asking us to rescue the dog.” In the presence of police and fire brigade personnel, dog rescuers from IDA entered the house. “The dog was barking anxiously. Our staff pacified him and put him in an ambulance,” said Shenoy. When the dog was first taken to the hospital in Deonar, it was a bit aggressive. It was kept in isolation in a standalone kennel, about 10ft by 12ft in size, said Sudnya Patkar, founder trustee of IDA. The basic rules of isolation for a dog are similar to those for humans. The Pom was observed for any symptoms of viral infection. Its temperature was checked daily over two weeks. ‘Pet dog now back home, is perfectly fine’ The dog’s respiration was examined with a stethoscope. This means the dog’s breathing rate per minute was tested. Also, its pulse rate was assessed, said Dr Makarand Chavan, a trustee of IDA. “The dog had no respiratory distress or respiratory infection. It was not sneezing, had no cough or nasal discharge. In other words, the dog was perfectly normal and healthy,” said Dr Chavan who has his clinic near Shivaji Park at Dadar. Now, the dog is back home, a member of the family from Deonar told TOI. “Our pet is eating well and back to his routine now. He’s perfectly fine.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/mumbai-coronavirus-victims-dog-spends-two-weeks-in-isolation/articleshow/75150478.cms||Alex Fernandes
April 15, 2020||Ghaziabad||Fight against Covid: GMC’s funds drying up, say councillors||GHAZIABAD: From carrying out sanitisation drives to providing food to about 12,000 people everyday — the Ghaziabad Municipal Corporation(GMC) is at the forefront of the battle against Covid-19. But with the lockdown being extended, councillors say tough times are ahead for the corporation as funds for development work are drying up. GMC’s income through house, water and sewer tax constitutes a major source of its revenue and during normal months it collects Rs 12 crore, but the collection has stopped since March, according to the councillors. In addition, it has set up a mega community kitchen in Kavinagar and is distributing 12,000 food packets daily, with the cost being Rs 30 a packet. “The resources which have been diverted in the fight against coronavirus will sooner or later take toll on GMC’s funds and it will require aid from the state government,” said BJP councillor Rajender Tyagi. “GMC’s major source of income in form of house, water and sewer taxes has stopped and it would require huge impetus to bring things back on track,” he added. But the GMC commissioner is confident of a sail through. “It is true that since March, the collection of taxes has been severely hit. But through our reserves, we have so far managed things well on our own and any apprehensions that it would impede development work is unfounded,” said Dinesh Chandra, municipal commissioner. Chandra further said that GMC mega kitchen has employed more than 100 gardeners. “Our community kitchen is preparing food for 12,000 people every day for the past many days now, industrial houses and Good Samaritans have also pitched in with money and essentials. We have also received donations from officials and employees, which have gone a long way in keeping our kitchens running,” he added. GMC has also procured 26,000 litres of sodium hypochlorite, which is being used to carry out sanitisation drives. “Apart from the transportation cost, the sodium hypochlorite has been provided to us for free by a company in Kota,” said Chandra.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ghaziabad/fight-against-covid-gmcs-funds-drying-up-say-councillors/articleshow/75149427.cms||Abhijay Jha
April 15, 2020||Noida||District hospital to turn into isolation unit||NOIDA: The Bill & Melinda Gates foundation, in partnership with Tata Trusts, will help furnish the 280-bed new district hospital in Sector 39 and prepare it for Covid-19 cases. Currently, the hospital is being used as a quarantine facility. Over 150 people at are the unit in the new building as of now. “The foundation will be spending five million dollars on the project and will help with all kinds of equipment and infrastructure required for handling coronavirus patients. We already have 300 beds for positive patients at various facilities. Having these new beds will greatly enhance our capacity,” said Narendra Bhooshan, the nodal officer for handling Covid-19 response in the district.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/noida/district-hospital-to-turn-into-isolation-unit/articleshow/75149396.cms||---
April 15, 2020||Noida||Greater Noida: Abetment FIR in quarantine suicide probe||GREATER NOIDA: Authorities at the quarantine centre, where a 32-year-old man allegedly committed suicide by jumping from the 7th-floor terrace, have lodged a police complaint for abetment to suicide. Police said officials at the isolation centre — set up on the campus of Galgotias University — had mentioned in the complaint that despite efforts to pacify Mohammed Gulzar, unknown persons had provoked him on Sunday evening, hours before he committed suicide. Gulzar, who had a history of mental health problems, had been beaten up on April 10 by a group of villagers who suspected him of attending the Jamaat congregation. Rajesh Kumar Singh, DCP (zone 3), said an FIR under Section 306 (abetment to suicide) of the IPC was registered against unknown persons. “Prima facie, there is hardly any evidence of someone provoking him. We are investigation the case from all possible angles,” he added. Diwakar Singh, the additional district magistrate who is also conducting a detailed inquiry into the alleged suicide, said he had not been informed about any FIR. “I have no information about this FIR. I have sent an interim report to the administration, mentioning the sequence of events that led to the suicide. Further action will be taken after the statements are collected from doctors at the quarantine centre and the man’s family members,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/noida/abetment-fir-in-quarantine-suicide-probe/articleshow/75149654.cms||---
April 15, 2020||India||Covid-19: Testing +ve after 26 days, incubation an X-factor||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM: As many as 22 persons who returned to the state from abroad tested positive for Covid-19 in Kerala after April 5, their incubation period ranging from 14 to 26 days, which vindicates the state’s decision to disregard the WHO-mandated 14-day quarantine norm and extend it to 28 days. International flights to Kerala stopped on March 22 and April 5 was the cut-off date for the 14-day quarantine.  A 40-year-old from Kannur, who returned from Dubai via AI Express IX 346 on March 17, tested positive on Sunday, 26 days later. An 11-year old boy who reached Kannur from the UAE on March 15 tested positive on the 24th day, on April 8. Of the cases reported on Monday, a Palakkad native had reached the state on March 22 and tested positive on the 23rd day.  The development of symptoms after 14 days poses a huge challenge for the state as nonresident Keralites are expected to return once travel options are available. The state has already announced that it will bear the expenses of testing and quarantine of returning NRKs.  Kerala had by the first week of March decided to extend the quarantine period to 28 days while it is 14 days in the rest of the country.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/covid-19-testing-ve-after-26-days-incubation-an-x-factor/articleshow/75150517.cms||Jisha Surya
April 15, 2020||Gurgaon||Gurugram: A chance to find out water quality minus pollutants||GURUGRAM: The Haryana State Pollution Control Board (HSPCB) has initiated a survey to evaluate the quality of water in rivers and other waterbodies across the state during the lockdown period. The department is collecting water samples from various locations to check pollution levels in waterbodies. HSPCB member secretary S Narayanan told TOI that the survey is being conducted in three phases. In the first phase, samples were collected from the date of implementation of lockdown till April 12. The second phase will start on April 14 and end on May 24. The third phase will be carried out after the lockdown is lifted by the government. The survey aims at assessing the impact of lockdown on water quality. “This is a unique study which can be referred for policy making in the future. With all industries off the radar now, the quality of water in Haryana can be evaluated. This is a rare phenomenon. We are analysing the data on pollutants. The study will examine changing patterns in rivers and waterbodies during this period,” he said. HSPCB officials have collected the data of pollutants in more than 500 waterbodies in Haryana. “I have asked officials to collect as many samples as possible. We have already collected samples during the first phase which was till April 12. Now, we are analysing the data. We will collect more data from April 14 to May 24 when the government will allow some industries to function. The third phase will be carried out after the lockdown gets lifted completely,” he said. The survey will analyse industrial pollutants and domestic sewage contribution to waterbodies. Apart from sewage, the teams are collecting samples from waterbodies near industrial hotspots. A large number of industries used to discharge effluents into rivers and waterbodies, which has completely halted owing to the lockdown. Also, domestic sewage still continues to flow into waterbodies. The pollution body will also evaluate its impact on pollutant levels in waterbodies across Haryana. “We have collected samples from drains, waterbodies, groundwater and rivers inGurugram. During the lockdown, the water quality has improved but the analysis will throw some light on how it has improved. Within a week, the results of amples taken in first phase will be out,” said Shakti Singh, regional officer, HSPCB,Gurugram. Asked if the data can be also used to track the spread of Covid-19 by analysing water in sewage and drains, Narayanan said, “The health department can investigate it. Now, we are trying to analyse the level of pollutants in waterbodies,” said Narayanan.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/gurgaon/a-chance-to-find-out-water-quality-minus-pollutants/articleshow/75149458.cms||Ipsita Pati
April 15, 2020||Gurgaon||Gurugram: A plan that guarantees masks and some income||GURUGRAM: Suchita, a resident of The Palladians in Sector 47, dons many hats. This 36-year-old woman is a professional dancer, trains underprivileged children, fashion designer, runs a homestay in Himachal Pradesh apart from being actively involved in social services. Since the first day of the nationwide lockdown, Suchita is doing her bit for the down trodden as well as the Covid warriors like doctors, nurses, policemen, civil defence personnel and also vegetable vendors. She started off by distributing ration (rice, pulses, flour, sugar, salt and tea leaves) to about 150 families living in the slums of Tigra and Samaspur. The fund for this has come from donations from like-minded residents as well as her own pocket. Apart from this, she has also distributed 250 face shields to the Covid warriors and is now stitching face masks. “There are many tailors and women in the slums who are jobless, I am delegating some work to about 30 of them and paying them as well,” she said. She has already distributed 1,000 masks to sanitation workers, security guards and delivery boys. Despite her efforts, logistics and communication are the main challenges she faces. “For a face shield, I need some materials that are available in Delhi. Since borders are sealed, procuring them is an issue,” she explains. Suchita draws inspiration from Mother Teresa and Malala Yousafzai and is determined to bring relief for the people, who are in actual need.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/gurgaon/a-plan-that-guarantees-masks-and-some-income/articleshow/75149569.cms||---
