April 16, 2020||Bengaluru||#LockdownEffect: Now, farmers too rely on technology to reach out to customers directly||The nation-wide lockdown surely has been a major inconvenience, especially for those working in the areas dictated by demand and supply, like farming, for instance. But quite like every other sector seems to have figured out how to handle their work online, a lot of the farmers dealing seasonal and perishable items seem to have followed suit. And if you have already received the odd message or a notification on your social media feed about a fresh batch of mangoes or grapes available for sale, you will know exactly what this is all about. Gated communities, apartment complexes are a farmer’s hotspotsRashmi Suresh, who grows muskmelons as a family business, says that the lockdown hit them hard at first. "We grow close to 120 tonnes of muskmelon at this time of the year. When the lockdown was announced, we wondered what to do, but realised that we could reach out to apartment complexes in the city. The message we sent to a few friends was shared widely and we soon began getting orders from many societies. The only condition we laid down was that each individual order had to be for five kgs. We catered to an 800 kg order at an apartment complex recently, but have a long way to go. We are hoping to sell as much as we can before the fruits start going bad," she says. In the past few weeks, residents at gated communities, apartments and societies, have become part of dime-a-dozen instant messaging groups, designed solely for the purpose of collating bulk orders for famers to deliver. Pratap GM, who grows grapes near Devanahalli, has been following a similar modus operandi now. “I sent messages to all my contacts, who, in turn, forwarded it to their apartment groups. While it is true that I have been getting bulk orders, but it is nothing compared to how it would have been if not for the lockdown,” he says. Arjun and his brother Madhu grow a wide variety of mangoes at their farm in Kolar. “A few of our regular customers knew we were ready to harvest, but that getting the produce to the market was an issue. They spread word about the varieties we have, we started getting orders from individuals and housing societies. We pack each variety by the box, of approximately 3.5 kgs each and ensure contactless delivery. At individual houses we leave the boxes at the door, while in gated communities we insist on customers bringing their own bags, into which we empty the boxes. We recently followed the same method in Whitefield. Right from the harvesting to packing, we have been sanitising at every step," he says and adds, “Getting orders has been, surprisingly, easy, what isn’t is the part where we have to live up to that, given that we have to do everything ourselves, from harvesting to packing and delivering across the city, as our labourers have all gone home.” Citizens too pitch in with reposts of available produce on their social media pagesAnamika Bist, who promotes community farming through her enterprise, says that since the lockdown, farmers have been reaching out to her to help them sell their harvest. “Since we work closely with farmers, they have been seeking our help. We reach out to our customer/clients and contacts via messages, emails, social media and such and tell them what a particular farmer is selling and for how much. Since people too are not able to get their hands on fresh fruits and vegetables, this benefits both the farmer and the consumers,” says Anamika. Ruth James, who used to procure fresh fruits and vegetables from farmers in Ooty for her small-scale jam and pickle operation, had just began expanding orders to include requests from friends when the lockdown happened. “Since I already know a few farmers, I have been trying to help them sell their produce by spreading the word among friends and clients. Given the current situation, farmers only agree to ship if there is a specific volume and I try my best to meet that,” she says.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/lockdowneffect-now-farmers-too-rely-on-technology-to-reach-out-to-customers-directly/articleshow/75164835.cms||Sandra Marina Fernandes
April 16, 2020||Goa||‘Won’t mind returning to Goa but focus now on Hyderabad'||Panaji: Liston Colaco is leaving his forgetful years behind him and hoping to cement a place in the starting 11 of Hyderabad FC for next season’s Indian Super League (ISL). The U-23 international was a bright prospect when he helped Salgaocar FC clinch the Goa Pro League title in 2017 after finishing as the highest goal-scorer. He also took Goa to the final of the National Football Championship for the Santosh Trophy the same year before moving to FC Goa on a record transfer fee. There has never been any doubt about Liston’s talent with many seeing him as the next big thing in Goa football. The forwards goals kept coming for FC Goa’s developmental side, but the 21-year struggled to make an impression in the senior team with Spanish coach Sergio Lobera at the helm. He had a forgetful stint in Goa, playing only nine minutes during three substitute appearances this season where he got just eight touches to the ball. Last season, Liston managed to play only one match for 17 minutes while he played 53 minutes across four matches in the 2017-18 season when he joined FC Goa from Salgaocar. Many can argue that with Ferran Corominas and Hugo Boumous in sublime form, he would always struggle to get minutes on the field and it surprised nobody when he switched to Hyderabad in January on a two-year move. “My move to Hyderabad helped me gain some game time and I am happy. I was trying before as well to get some game time and was working hard according to the coach. Next season, I want to carry on what I am doing and be a regular starter under coach (Albert) Roca,” said Liston. Hyderabad were already at the bottom of the points table when Liston arrived but he made an impression in quick time. He managed four appearances and even scored a brace in their resounding 5-1 win over NorthEast United FC where he was name Hero-of-the-Match. For now, Liston is only focussing on sharpening his skills at Hyderabad but hasn’t ruled out a return to his former club. “Yes, I will surely like to return to FC Goa someday because it is my home and I want to play there,” said Liston. Just like other footballers, Liston too is finding it difficult to stay indoors during the nationwide lockdown. The coronavirus pandemic hasn’t helped, but he is doing everything he can to stay motivated. “These are difficult times but I’m doing some core exercises at home, juggling with the ball and other activities to keep myself fit,” said Liston. The forward has certainly regained his confidence and will be under watch next season. The man who has shown so much promise could finally deliver, although, at least for now, it won’t be for Goa.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/wont-mind-returning-to-goa-but-focus-now-on-hyderbad/articleshow/75169646.cms||FLAVIO LOPES
April 16, 2020||Business||Lockdown 2.0: Supply chain of essentials freed from most curbs||NEW DELHI: Two drivers and one helper will be allowed in each truck and other carriers including vehicle carriers post April 20 so that more drivers can reach the stranded trucks. Coronavirus outbreak: Live updatesCurrently, only one driver and a helper are allowed in a loaded or empty truck. This relaxation is crucial to ensure adequate supply of essential commodities considering that trucks and other goods carriers bring the supply up to the stores. Government reiterating on Wednesday to allow empty trucks to ply is expected to bring more reliefs to truckers. The revised home ministry guideline said all facilities in the supply chain of essential goods whether involved in manufacturing, wholesale or retail of such goods through local stores, large brick and mortar stores or e-commerce companies should be allowed to operate “without any restrictions on their timing of opening and closure”. However, this will be subject to strict social distancing. It said shops, including kirana and single shop selling essential goods, hygiene items should be allowed to operate. The ministry also said carts used for selling essential items and ration shops should be allowed. Similarly, sale of fruits and vegetables, opening of dairy and milk booth, sale of poultry meat and fish, animal feed and fodder should be allowed ensuring strict social distancing. “District authorities may encourage and facilitate home deliveries to minimize the movement of individuals outside their home,” the guideline said. More on Covid-19 Coronavirus pandemic: Complete Coverage 21-day lockdown: What will stay open and what won't How to quarantine yourself at home Trust the newspaper for your daily verified news While government sources said some concerns of truckers have been addressed by allowing more drivers to move in trucks, truckers said the government has not yet resolved how drivers can come from home until there is transport facility for their movement. Meanwhile, the truckers organizations, which had claimed nearly three lakh trucks are held up at factory gates, outside warehouses or are abandoned at dhabas, have so far collected details of about 15,000 such trucks. Sources said they have not yet provided the details of the stranded trucks as compilation is a complicated process and many truckers are slowing responding. The road transport ministry had sought the details quickly so that the issues could be resolved expeditiously. “When the all economic activities including manufacturing have stopped, how can trucks keep running? Only a small share of the trucks are now operating to carry essential items,” said an industry insider.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/govt-moves-to-ease-essential-supply-improve-availability/articleshow/75169924.cms||Dipak K Dash
April 16, 2020||India||Govt charts roadmap for resuming construction activities from next week||NEW DELHI: The government on Wednesday announced the roadmap for commencing new construction activities outside municipal limits from April 20. It said resuming construction of unfinished works in urban areas will also be allowed where workers are available on site and there no need to bring them from outside. Sources said kick-starting construction work even at a limited scale and in a phased manner from next week will prepare the ground for resuming activities in full scale when the lockdown is lifted. The home ministry’s revised guideline said fresh construction activities can be resumed including building of roads and renewable energy, irrigation water conservation and industrial projects after April 20 outside municipal areas. All such works will start only when the district or local authorities allow them. Sources said the detailing will be done at the local level and now it’s up to dynamism of the local authorities to enable this quickly and calibrate the opening up depending up to the circumstances. No construction will be allowed in Covid-19 hotspots and containment zones. “What we understand from the guidelines is that construction activities will be allowed in isolated places and in urban areas where there is no chance of the workers mixing or interacting with locals. There are several road and other projects including in the housing sector where labourers are already staying in camps. Resuming works to complete them can start quickly,” said an NHAI official. The road transport ministry has asked its regional officers and contractors to seek work permission from district authorities. Officials said some work can start immediately because in most cases the highway work sites are usually in isolated areas. Construction sector is one of the biggest job generators and it has potential to have multiplier effect on the economy. The home ministry has specified that all work spaces to have temperature screening and provide sanitisers at convenient places. There must be one hour gap at work places between two shifts and the lunch break of staff has to be staggered. They also need to sanitise work places between shifts. For workers coming from outside special transportation facility will be arranged and these vehicles should be allowed to work only with 30-40% passenger capacity.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/govt-charts-roadmap-for-resuming-construction-activities-from-next-week/articleshow/75170044.cms||Dipak K Dash
April 16, 2020||Lucknow||Lucknowites turn hair stylists for family members during lockdown||The lockdown due to Coronavirus has changed peoples’ lives totally. With every commercial establishment closed people are resorting to doing thingson their own. For example becoming salon gurus. With salons closed, a lot of people wanting hair cuts have no where to go. So stepping in for them are their family members who are turning salon gurus for them. Read on to know about some hair raising tales by a few such city folk... HAIRCUT AND THE FAUJI - A COVID TALEA singularly fauji trait is their penchant for haircuts, it’s a weekly ingrained ritual. Long hair on a fauji is a strict no-no. A week without his crew cut and it’s sheer sacrilege for a forces guy. “But the nationwide lockdown happened and this holy ritual was broken,” shares Ritu Singh, a colonel’s wife in Lucknow. She adds, “Barbers were available but there were also strict orders not to take haircuts in public places. My husband, a typical fauji, tried everything to get a hair cut, even wielding the scissors himself to cut his own hair. But the end result was he ended up cutting his own self instead of his hair. That’s when I had to step in, and armed with a tailoring scissor and his razor, a work of art was created by me. I managed to do a fairly neat job, I must say.” Ritu SIngh giving a hair cut to her husband (BCCL)Ritu Singh giving a hair cut to her husband (BCCL) THIS ONE’S FOR YOU MY SON!“Cutting my son’s hair was actually great fun!” says chef Pankaj Bhadouria, adding, “Well, my son needed a trim and was grumbling about his tresses growing a bit too long. And then, I was inspired to take to cutting and chopping, in another way. (laughs) He needed a little convincing, but then he allowed me to give him a hair cut. I must confess I did a pretty decent job of it.” “My son is four years old and he came to India five months back. In winters, while having long hair was fine, but it is really hot now and my son was not comfortable with his tresses coming on to his forehead. Since because of the lockdown all salons are closed, I cut his hair slightly short, especially from his forehead,” shares Urfi Khan, a businessman from Lucknow. Dr Ali Faraz Siddiqui gets a hair cut from his brother Jibran (BCCL)Dr Ali Faraz Siddiqui gets a hair cut from his brother Jibran (BCCL) Sharing the experience of cutting his sons’ hair, Ashwani Yadav, a government official sharess, “Since all the salons were closed, I decided to give a hair cut to my two sons. And though, my younger son Dhruv did not say anything, the elder one, Atharva, made a request that ‘Papa give me a haircut just like Guru Randhawa's’. Later, when he saw his hair in the mirror, his first question was ‘what kind of haircut have you done Papa? This does not look like Guru Randhawa’s style!’ So to calm him down I had to promise him that next time I will give him a Guru Randhawa waala haircut.” Urfi Khan gives a hair cut to his son (BCCL)Urfi Khan gives a hair cut to his son (BCCL) MAKINFG THE WRONG CUT!Not all hair cuts were a success. Take for example the haircut given to Dr Ali Faraz Siddiqui, a dentist, by his brother, Jibran, a lawyer by profession. “Initially things were going pretty fine. Till the time, Jibran was trimming the hair on the sides, it looked cool. In fact, we also consulted an online tutorial regarding a basic haircut. But as he started trimming it with scissors from the middle, it became a flop shop. The hair cut was so bad that I am now wearing a cap to hide it. I am just waiting for the lockdown to get over so that I can go to my barber and do some damage control,” he sighs. — With input from Farhan Ahmad Siddiqui||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/lucknowites-turn-hair-stylists-for-family-members-during-lockdown/articleshow/75197243.cms||Iti Shree Misra
April 16, 2020||India||Death count 424 as total Covid cases soar at 12,281||The number of fresh Covid-19 cases dropped on Wednesday in Maharashtra and Delhi, the two worst affected states, even as 29 more deaths were recorded in the last 24 hours across the country, taking the toll to 424. While Delhi recorded just 17 new cases, its lowest single-day tally in April, Maharashtra reported 232 — the lowest figure in the last six days and a dip by 34% from Tuesday’s numbers. Nine new Covid-19 deaths were reported in Maharashtra and two in Delhi in the last 24 hours. Significantly, no new casualties were reported from MP, the worst affected state in the country after Maharashtra in terms of deaths. However, MP recorded its highest single-day tally of 197, taking the total number of confirmed cases to 938. Officials in Delhi said the significant drop in fresh cases in the state could be attributed to “zero positive cases among the persons evacuated from the Nizamuddin area. He said of the total 1578 positive cases in Delhi, 1080 or 68% are those who were evacuated from the Nizamuddin mosque. With two fresh deaths, the toll in the national capital has reached 32. With nine fresh deaths, Maharashtra’s toll has reached 187 while the total confirmed cases stand at 2916. Mumbai reported two deaths, the lowest in last 11 days, taking the toll to 114. With 140 fresh cases on Wednesday, which is a decline of 35% from the previous day’s numbers, the total confirmed cases in Mumbai now stand at 1896. It's time to mask up and stay safe: Join TOI's #MaskIndia campaignElsewhere in the country, five deaths each were reported from Gujarat and Andhra Pradesh, two each from TN, UP and Karnataka and one each from Rajasthan and Meghalaya. Meghalaya recorded its first death when a 69-year-old doctor, also the first person to test positive for the virus in the state two days ago, died in the morning. Six others, who are either family members or helpers of the deceased, who had no travel history, have also tested positive. The doctor’s is the second death in the north-east region, the first being that of a man in Assam’s Hailakandi district. On the positive side, more than 1100 people have recovered from the disease across India as per the data shared by the states. At 218, Kerala has maximum such recoveries. More on Covid-19Coronavirus pandemic: Complete Coverage21-day lockdown: What will stay open and what won'tHow to quarantine yourself at homeTrust the newspaper for your daily verified newsGujarat chief minister Vijay Rupani was put under a week of home quarantine even as his state saw a record number of 127 people testing positive for the virus, taking the tally to 766. With five more deaths reported in the last 24 hours, the state’s toll now is 33. Andhra Pradesh reported five fresh deaths, taking the state’s toll to 14. As many as 42 new cases were reported, taking the tally to 525. Uttar Pradesh reported 55 fresh cases, a majority of them from capital Lucknow, which also recorded its first death. In Kerala, only one Covid-19 case (Kannur) was reported on Wednesday, taking the total number of cases to 387. At the same time, seven more people tested negative for the virus.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/death-count-424-as-total-covid-cases-soar-at-12281/articleshow/75170818.cms||---
April 16, 2020||India||Activist, journalist among 13 held for Bandra chaos||MUMBAI: A political activist, a journalist from a news channel, nine migrant workers and two other men from Kamothe were arrested on Wednesday for triggering chaos at Bandra railway station on Tuesday evening by giving out false information about movement of long-distance trains. More than 1,500 migrants had gathered at the railway station, demanding that they be sent back to their homes in Uttar Pradesh, Bihar and Jharkhand in view of the extended lockdown and were lathi-charged by police before they dispersed. Late Tuesday evening, police had filed FIRs against Vinay Dubey, a political worker, and Rahul Kulkarni, a journalist from ABP Majha. Dubey was picked up on Tuesday night from his Airoli residence and arrested early on Wednesday for instigating migrants to gather at stations to board trains. He had put up several videos urging migrants to reach Kurla’s Lokmanya Tilak Terminus on April 18 and said he would help them get home. He had also asked workers to protest against the government for not facilitating their movement. It's time to mask up and stay safe: Join TOI's #MaskIndia campaignKulkarni was held from Osmanabad, district superintendent of police Raj Roshan confirmed, for airing a news report on Tuesday saying the railways had decided to run Jansadharan special trains in order to allow stranded labourers to go home. A Bandra police officer said nine migrant workers identified with the help of CCTV cameras have also been arrested for creating a ruckus outside Bandra station. While Dubey was produced before court and remanded in police custody till April 21, DCP (zone IX) Abhishek Trimukhe said Kulkarni and the nine workers would be brought to court on Thursday. Apart from these three FIRs, Bandra police had initially on Tuesday registered their first offence against 800 to 1,000 unknown accused (migrant workers) for unlawful assembly and rioting. Police are collecting information on those who had assembled. More on Covid-19Coronavirus pandemic: Complete Coverage21-day lockdown: What will stay open and what won'tHow to quarantine yourself at homeTrust the newspaper for your daily verified newsThe Kamothe police on Wednesday also arrested a social activist Kamlesh Dubey (26) and his aide Mohammad Ansari (45), a labourer, for making and circulating a video featuring 10-12 people at the Sakharam Mhatre chawl. The two accused claimed in the video that migrant workers had neither food nor money (which police said was not true), demanded the government send workers back and allegedly instigated workers. PSI Rohit Bandgar of Kamothe police station said, “We are probing if Kamlesh Dubey, who claims to be a social worker in UP, has any links with Vinay Dubey.” Kulkarni had on Tuesday night posted a letter of the railways on Facebook, saying it had been leaked from the office of chief commercial manager (passenger marketing), South Central Railway, Secunderabad, and claimed his news was source-based. But on Wednesday, South Central Railway tweeted: “CLARIFICATION: A communication related to internal planning of SCR to assess demand for train services is being misinterpreted in some sections as decision to run spl trains for migrant labour. There is NO such proposal & ALL Passenger Trains stands CANCELLED till 03.05.2020.” CLARIFICATION: A communication related to internal planning of SCR to assess demand for train services is being mis… https://t.co/RnLLulUXTS— SouthCentralRailway (@SCRailwayIndia) 1586925983000While state public works minister Ashok Chavan demanded a probe into Tuesday’s incident and alleged some elements wanted to “disturb communal harmony and negate the state’s efforts to fight the pandemic,” NCP spokesperson and minorities minister Nawab Malik denied allegations made by some on social media that Dubey was an NCP worker. He said there was a “malicious campaign to tarnish the party’s image.” NCP chief Sharad Pawar urged political parties not to try and score political points over Covid-19 but to “take steps to defeat coronavirus.” Bandra’s BJP MLA Ashish Shelar said one of the reasons for discontent among migrant workers was their inability to connect with families over phone. “Their pre-paid limits have been exhausted, retail shops are closed and many have no access to online recharge. Arrangements must be made so they can speak to their families,” Shelar said in a letter to Mumbai suburban guardian minister Aaditya Thackeray. ABP Majha said in a statement, “There is no conceivable way in which the crowds that gathered at the station can be linked to our stories. We will take legal steps, we have not deviated from practices of responsible journalism. We would like to say that before journalists are arrested, there should be due verification of all facts.” -Inputs by Clara Lewis and Prafulla Marpakwar||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/activist-journalist-among-13-held-for-bandra-chaos/articleshow/75170881.cms||V Narayan
April 16, 2020||India||First lot of Covid-19 kits from China may arrive today||NEW DELHI: After several delays, India will finally receive the first consignment of rapid testing kits for Covid-19 by this week with one consignment of 3,00,000 kits being cleared by customs in Guangzhou on Wednesday and headed to Delhi on Thursday, said official sources. Over the next couple of weeks, India is expected to receive about 2-3 million kits from China. India has diversified its sources of testing kits, tapping Germany, Korea, France and Israel though health ministry sources pointed out that several of these suppliers also trace their supplies to Chinese firms. After Chinese kits were rejected for being substandard, the Chinese government prepared a list of companies whose products are quality tested and would be eligible for exports. In addition, Chinese customs insist on quality checks and this might be taking time. The rapid testing kits are to be used in hotspot areas where infection rates are high and cases are doubling at a fast rate. Though they test for antibodies and are not as definitive as RT-PCR (polymerase) tests, they add another level of surveillance. The kits will also be used in testing persons with ILI (influenza like illness) symptoms in "cold spots" or areas with low prevalence of the disease to make sure Covid-19 cases are not escaping attention. More on Covid-19Coronavirus pandemic: Complete Coverage21-day lockdown: What will stay open and what won'tHow to quarantine yourself at homeTrust the newspaper for your daily verified newsIndian authorities insisted on their own quality checks, which also delayed shipments. But this was more acceptable to authorities here than taking in sub-standard stuff which would have thrown up other problems in the collection of data or the entire testing exercise. There have also been reports of consignments meant for India, diverted to the US, which has been paying top dollar for these precious items. As the world remains in the grip of the deadly coronavirus pandemic, countries are scrambling to source testing kits. It's time to mask up and stay safe: Join TOI's #MaskIndia campaignSpeaking to journalists in a virtual press conference on Tuesday, Vikram Misri, Indian ambassador to China said, “India would welcome the expediting of the registration of Chinese companies and products by the National Medical Product Authority, especially those already having a number of export orders to India, and have been licensed for sale in India by Indian regulatory authorities.” Answering questions on Tuesday, Dr Raman Gangakhedkar, head of epidemiology and communicable disease, ICMR said “We cannot comment on whether our Chinese consignment of rapid testing kits got diverted to the US or somewhere else because we neither maintain commercial data nor are we manufacturers who would know where our supplies are going. Kits are coming from China, and we have been told some of the kits should reach us by April 15.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/first-lot-of-covid-19-kits-from-china-may-arrive-today/articleshow/75171006.cms||Indrani Bagchi
April 16, 2020||India||UP mob attacks doctors, cops of quarantine team||BAREILLY: A team of health workers and police officials came under heavy stone pelting by an irate mob on Wednesday when they reached Nagphani in Moradabad, UP, to take away the brother of a deceased Covid-19 patient to a quarantine facility. Two doctors and four cops suffered serious injuries in the attack. Condemning the incident, UP chief minister Yogi Adityanath ordered action under the National Security Act (NSA) against those involved in the assault. The Covid-19 patient had died on Monday and his brother has developed fever and cold, classic coronavirus symptoms. Nagphani has, meanwhile, been "sealed" and declared a "Covid hotspot". It's time to mask up and stay safe: Join TOI's #MaskIndia campaignSources said rumours that some individuals would be picked up from the minority-populated area for testing and sent to quarantine centres "no less than detention camps" started it all. Defying lockdown norms, a mob of around 100 targeted the two ambulances and police vehicles that had come to Nagphani to take with them the Covid patient's brother. At least 25 people, including 10 women, were later arrested by police. Raids are on to nab the others. "When the family came out of their house on seeing a medical and police team, people there started throwing stones at us. The situation is under control now though,” SSP Amit Pathak, who rushed to the spot along with DM RK Singh, said. Pathak added that section 144 was violated and the men and women responsible for it will also be charged under Epidemic Diseases Act and Disaster Management Act. "Plus, action will be taken under the National Security Act. An FIR is being registered under relevant sections.” More on Covid-19Coronavirus pandemic: Complete Coverage21-day lockdown: What will stay open and what won'tHow to quarantine yourself at homeTrust the newspaper for your daily verified newsOne of the ambulance drivers said a large crowd assembled as they reached the place. Under attack, some of the health workers had to hide in the narrow bylanes. “Two doctors and a few health workers were hurt. The doctors, I believe, have suffered major injuries,” he said, claiming that the people even tore the safety jackets of the medical team.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/up-mob-attacks-doctors-cops-of-quarantine-team/articleshow/75171069.cms||Pankul Sharma
April 16, 2020||Rajkot||Gujarat: Three arrested for Tik Tok video||RAJKOT: The three persons who had allegedly shot their garba playing Tik Tok video and had uploaded it on the social media were arrested for allegedly breaking the lockdown order on Tuesday night. Police said the accused, identified as Swoyam Aya (22), Dhawal Gohel (20) and Jairaj Devda (21), were nabbed from a farmhouse near Nyari Dam. “While Gohel and Devda were playing garba, Aya was allegedly shooting their video near the house of BJP corporator Nitin Bhardwaj on Amin Marg in Rajkot on the night of April 8,” said H M Gadhvi, inspector with Rajkot detection of crime branch.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/three-arrested-for-tik-tok-video/articleshow/75166968.cms||---
April 16, 2020||Rajkot||11-day-old baby girl, parents test positive in Rajkot||RAJKOT: Six more people, including an 11-day-old baby girl, from Jangleshwar area of the city tested positive on Wednesday, taking the total number of Covid-19 cases in Rajkot to 24. Jangleshwar has been cluster quarantined after the spike in cases. The baby was suffering from fever for the last few days and referred to the civil hospital on Tuesday where she tested positive late in the night. According to health officials, her parents’ also tested positive on Wednesday evening. The couple - 25-year old-man and a 20-year-old woman - got married just a year ago and the girl was born on April 3. An 85-year-old man who lived in their neighbourhood was also found infected. Another 47-year-old man, who is the neighbour of Nadim, the first person from Rajkot to test on March 18, also tested positive. Nadim had recovered from the infection and officials said there was no connection between the two cases. A 37-year-old female from the same locality also tested positive. Municipal health officer Dr. Pankaj Rathod saidm “We are doing door-to-door survey in the entire Jangleshwar area. We quarantined 49 people on Wednesday from this area out of which 11 are in government quarantine facilities.” Botad district also registered its first positive case on Wednesday with a 90-year-old man confirmed infected.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/11-day-old-baby-girl-parents-test-positive-in-rajkot/articleshow/75166533.cms||---
April 16, 2020||Surat||Cop a net sensation with 15 seconds video||Surat: An attempt by a police head constable turned him into an overnight social media sensation, thanks to his witty 15-seconds video.Praveen Patil, the in-charge of a police control room vehicle in Udhna police station created and shared his video making an announcement on the megaphone installed in his van.  On patrolling duty in Bhimnagar, Patil, wearing dark glasses delivered his salvo in Hindi: "Koi Bhi Apne Gharo Se Bahar Niklega Nai, Tod Denge Tumhare Sharir Ka Kona Kona, Magar... Hone Nahi Denge Tumko Corona!"  His mobile phone is now flooded with messages from friends who are sending him screenshots of his video being shared widely. “I made a video to create awareness through social media as well and shared it with few friends,” said Patil. A cop for 20 years, Patil has never got a reward in terms of popularity like this. “People like it and my main purpose of giving the ‘stay at home’ message has served its purpose. I am glad,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/cop-a-net-sensation-with-15-seconds-video/articleshow/75166633.cms||Yagnesh Bharat Mehta
April 16, 2020||Varanasi||Hooch business continues in Varanasi, Azamgarh; 3 held||Varanasi: The menace of hooch manufacturers remains prevalent in Varanasi and Azamgarh districts as two units were raided and huge quantity of illicit liquor was seized on Wednesday. Varanasi SSP Prabhakar Chawdhary said that on a tip-off, Sigra police, on Wednesday morning, raided a slum in Maldahiya area. During the raid, 10 litres of illicit liquor, equipment used in its manufacture and empty drums were recovered from the house of a man identified as Shakha. He was arrested while his two accomplices managed to escape. Similarly, in Azamgarh, Maharajganj police raided a deserted area along Saryu river and caught two men red-handed, manufacturing illicit liquor. The dua was arrested. Azamgarh SP Triveni Singh said that several drums containing several hundred litres of illicit liquor and raw material were drained. “In a special drive being conducted in the district since Tuesday, several hooch traders have been arrested. The drive has been intensified,” said Singh.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/varanasi/hooch-business-continues-in-varanasi-azamgarh-3-held/articleshow/75167966.cms||---
April 16, 2020||Business||Sensex dips 310 pts as BFSIs, autos fall||TNN Mumbai: Weighed by heavy selling in banking and auto stocks, the sensex gave up over 1,200 points from its early high on Wednesday and closed 310 points lower at 30,380 as Dalal Street investors kept their fingers crossed because of the rising number of coronavirus infection cases. The weakness of the rupee due to foreign fund selling also led to the slide in the index, market players said. Among the sensex stocks, HDFC Bank, RIL, HDFC and Kotak Bank contributed the most to the index’s slide while buying in HUL, ITC and Nestle cushioned the fall. Outside of the index, aviation stocks slid sharply as the extension of lockdown in the country is expected to affected the finances of already severely hit airline operators. At the close, InterGlobe Aviation (IndiGo) was down 5.4%, while SpiceJet closed nearly 5% lower.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/sensex-dips-310-pts-as-bfsis-autos-fall/articleshow/75168640.cms||---
April 16, 2020||Madurai||Sample testing intensified at Rajapalayam||Madurai: Samples from 183 people of Rajapalayam municipality in Virudhunagar district, which has been entirely designated a containment area, were taken in the past two days and sent for testing. All the 46 wards in the municipality were brought under containment zone on Monday after four people, who were contacts of a 60-year-old man infected by the novel coronavirus and was discharged, also tested positive. A health department official told TOI that these four people included a doctor, lab technician and hospital worker at a clinic where the 60-year-old man, the first to test positive in Rajapalayam, visited. The fourth positive person had visited the man’s house. Following instructions from district collector R Kannan, health department and municipality employees started a door-to-door survey to cover all the 45,000 houses in Rajapalayam from Tuesday. The employees would visit each house and collect details about the number of people and those with symptoms. A total of 371 employees and 12 medical teams have been deputed to carry out the work which will be completed on Thursday. “On Tuesday, samples were taken from 155 people who include 22 family members of these four positive people and 60 who visited the clinic at Rajapalayam between March 22 and 25. Besides, sample were taken from others with symptoms such as respiratory problem, fever, cold and cough. The samples of 28 people were taken from Rajapalayam on Wednesday,” the official said adding they have been sent to the government Rajaji hospital in Madurai for testing. In Kanyakumari district, one more person tested positive in Nagercoil taking the positive cases in the district to 16 on Tuesday. He is one of the 149 contacts of a positive person who was working at the Chennai airport who came to Nagercoil in the third week of March for a relative’s engagement. District collector Prashant M Wadnere said the man had 149 close contacts in two days before the lockdown was announced. He also picked up a quarrel with a man at the engagement and also went to a few others places due to which the number of contacts is high. While his wife and kin tested negative, his five positive contacts include the man with whom he quarrelled.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/sample-testing-intensified-at-rajapalayam/articleshow/75170065.cms||Kaushik Kannan
April 16, 2020||Patna||Lockdown woes hit mental health patients||PATNA: With the extension of lockdown, psychiatrists are flagging a rise in mental health issues among people in the city, especially those living alone or temporarily separated from their loved ones. Psychiatrists say while patients with existing conditions such as depression are relapsing, others are having a tough time coping with being confined at home and no social interaction. The lockdown has also heightened concerns about career and job security leading to a lot of people turning to psychiatrists for counselling, who are coming across cases of unusual behaviour, including self-harming. Boring Road resident Priya Singh, mother of a 24-year-old, is worried about her son who has started freaking out even over smallest of things. “My son was offered a job in one of the top multi-national companies in the country. However, his offer letter was cancelled due to the impact of lockdown. Now, he hardly talks to anyone and stays in his room all the time. He starts screaming out of fear every time he sees me or his father leaving the house to buy vegetables or milk,” she said. Dr Saurabh Kumar, assistant professor of psychiatry at PMCH in Patna, pointed out that mental health issues, including anxiety and depression, are spiking among patients as well as those who never faced any such issue. “There has been an increase in obsessive fear which has led to acute stress reactions. These reactions usually occur during unexpected crisis in life. People who have anxiety or any other mental illness are the worst sufferers. Besides, the lockdown extension has killed hopes of many patients who thought they could go back to their normal life,” Kumar said. He added, “During this time of crisis it is very important to reach out for help to cope up the current situation and maintain mental health with a healthy lifestyle.” There are examples of individuals who are facing a relapse of their existing mental health problems. “The symptoms of my bipolar disorder have worsened due to the covid-19 scare. In addition, I have started getting panic attacks. I feel like going out and seeking medical help but I don’t have the courage to step outside,” said Muskan Thakur, a resident of Saguna More. City-based psychiatrist Dr Binda Singh said she has been receiving unusual cases. “The separation from a loved one and the fear of never being able to meet them can result in panic attacks even among people who never faced any mental health issues,” she said. Citing the example of a patient, Singh said: “The patient’s mother contacted me saying her son is afraid and saying things like ‘I don’t want to get infected’. After talking to him, I got to know that he was hardly taking any rest and was constantly reading about covid-19 cases.” She added: “The situation we are in right now is difficult for everyone, be it rich or poor, healthy or weak, police or health worker, everybody is fighting their own battles. However, the impact of the lockdown is not the same for everyone, especially for people who are fragile and mentally weak. Hence, it’s the responsibility of every citizen to keep a check on their family members and seek medical help.” Dr Binda Singh said it is important for parents to keep an eye on their kids. "I have been counselling a graduation student whose end semester exams were postponed due to the lockdown. His father noticed the sudden behavioural change in him and informed me," she added. Kankarbagh resident Shreya Sinha said she has started experiencing hallucinations again. “A year ago, I underwent treatment for hearing voices that appeared to be real but were the creation of my mind. Everything was fine until the lockdown started. I had to consult my psychiatrist again, who has started conducting happiness sessions for me. I hope everything goes back to normal,” she added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/lockdown-woes-hit-mental-health-patients/articleshow/75166588.cms||Archi Rani
April 16, 2020||Patna||Medical team, 6 cops attacked in two districts||AURANGABAD/MOTIHARI/BIHARSHARIF: A block development officer (BDO), three members of a medical team and six policemen were injured in separate mob attacks in East Champaran and Aurangabad districts on Wednesday. Three members of a medical team and equal number of policemen were injured when villagers of Akauni under Goh police station in Aurangabad district attacked them with bricks for screening the residents for Covid-19. The injured policemen included Daudnagar sub-divisional police officer (SDPO) Rajkumar Tiwari. Sources said Daudnagar BDO was informed that a man had recently returned to Akauni from Delhi. The BDO along with Goh police and a medical team went to the village for screening the man. But the villagers protested and started pelting stones. Dr Arjun Kumar, ANM Neelu Kumari and several others were injured in the incident. Later, SDPO Tiwari with SDO Anupam Singh visited the village, but they were also attacked by the villagers. The SDPO, constable Pintu Kumar and another policeman got injured in the incident. Aurangabad DM Saurabh Jorwal and SP Deepak Barnawal rushed to the village and controlled the situation. The DM said the main conspirator behind the attack, Subhash Yadav, along with 44 other persons were arrested and an FIR was lodged against them in this connection. In another incident, Harsidhi BDO Sunil Kumar and three policemen were injured when the residents of Jagapakad under Harsidhi police station in East Champaran attacked them over non-distribution of ration from public distribution system (PDS) shops. All the injured persons were undergoing treatment at Areraj referral hospital. The incident occurred when the BDO along with the policemen visited the village to spread awareness on social distancing to prevent the spread of Covid-19 and keeping children safe from acute encephalitis syndrome (AES). Sunil in his police complaint said when he was advising the villagers not to allow their children to move out in scorching sun and don’t allow them to sleep without meal, they started complaining about non-supply of ration from four out of five PDS shops since March. Soon they turned hostile and attacked him and his team with stones and other hard objects. Ram Awatar, a villager, alleged that the BDO did not take action against the unscrupulous dealers despite repeated requests. Harsidhi MLA Rajendra Ram, however, alleged that Dalit women were beaten up by the police for demanding action against PDS shop owners. Areraj DSP Jyoti Prakash said guilty persons would be arrested soon. Four arrested in Nalanda: Four persons were arrested and over 400 others made accused for attacking policemen in two separate incidents in Nalanda district on Tuesday. Rajgir SDPO Somnath Bharti said a mob of over 100 persons, including women, attacked a quarantine centre at Nalanda Mor on Tuesday. Five Covid-19 suspects were quarantined there. He said some locals spread rumours that Covid positive patients were kept at the quarantine centre and there was strong possibility of others to get infected by them. He said the mob pelted stones at the quarantine centre as well as the police team. In another incident, Deepnagar police named 54 persons as accused for attacking policemen and trying to damage police vehicle on Monday. A police officer said the irate mob of over 300 people had blocked NH-31 near Biharsharif Pahadi to protest police excesses. The protesters accused the administration of shifting wholesale vegetable market from Bazar Samiti to Deepnagar stadium on Sunday. When they were returning from the stadium after selling their stock, Deepnagar police thrashed them for not keeping proper documents of their bikes. The vendors denied attack on policemen or their vehicles.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/medical-team-6-cops-attacked-in-two-districts/articleshow/75166669.cms||---
April 16, 2020||Patna||Bihar govt should bring back migrant workers: Opposition||PATNA: The opposition parties on Wednesday asked the Bihar government to bring back migrant workers of the state. The videos of migrant workers being caned near Mumbai’s Bandra railway station on Tuesday created an uproar on social media and in the corridor of politics. Earlier, similar videos surfaced from Surat on April 11. The migrant workers wanted to go back home. Citing examples of those who came back from Delhi recently, leader of opposition in Bihar legislative assembly Tejashwi Prasad Yadav said none of the migrant workers were found Covid-19 positive. “Others should also be brought back home and screened. This virus is spread by those who travel by flights, but the poor are facing the brunt of lockdown,” he said. “Bihar government should talk to the governments of Gujarat, Maharashtra, Delhi and Punjab and chalk out plans to bring back Bihari migrant workers. We cannot leave them in this difficult situation,” said Tejashwi. Congress national general secretary and Kadwa MLA Shakeel Ahmad Khan criticized the central government for not coming up with a plan to help poor people with food and other necessary commodities. “Not even once did PM Narendra Modi talk about these poor migrant workers in his address to the nation. PM should coordinate with state governments and get their problems solved,” he said. He alleged that the Rs1,000 promised by state government was not being transferred in the bank accounts of the needy people. “All the legislators are getting calls from people who are stuck outside Bihar. They are crying for help,” Shakeel said. A senior official admitted that apart from food, giving rent had become a problem for daily wage earners. “That’s why people want to come back home,” he said. Mohammad Kalam (30) of Katihar, who is stuck with around hundred others from Bihar near Bisrakh village in Noida Sector 101, said they are living in shanty near the construction site. “Our money is exhausted. Since this place is away from habitation, no one cares to provide us food. I approached a nearby police post, but no one provided us food. We will soon die of hunger,” he said over phone. As per a central government press release issued in February 2019, 93% of the workforce in India (42 crore) are engaged in unorganized sector. A Bihar government official said over 4.5 crore Biharis work in unorganized sectors in other sates, mainly in Delhi NCR, Maharashtra, Tamil Nadu and Punjab.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/bihar-govt-should-bring-back-migrant-workers-opposition/articleshow/75166636.cms||Sheezan Nezami
April 16, 2020||Rajkot||Gujarat: ‘Mava’ makers mint moolah, two Kutch, Junagadh units raided||RAJKOT: The craving for tobacco by the nicotine junkies is at an all-time high during this lockdown period. The addicts are ready to pay any price to buy the tobacco products, especially ‘mava’ (lime-laced betel nuts mixed with tobacco), especially in Saurashtra.No wonder, some people are trying to make the most out this situation to mint money. Police have busted two mava manufacturing units in Kutch and Junagadh in separate raids conducted after specific information on Tuesday night and arrested five persons. In Samikhiyali in Kutch district, police raided a two-storey house where ‘mavas’ were being manufactured and packed in a huge quantity. Police said they had received a tip-off that Sunil Kaila (33) and his brother Ashwin Kaila (42) were manufacturing mava packets to sell them at higher prices in the black market. The police arrested the Kaila brothers from Morbi and seized 185kg uncut betel nuts, 20 kg cut pieces of betel nuts, a dozen boxes of tobacco, 64,000 ready-made mava packets and Rs 45,180 cash, all total worth Rs 4.10 lakh. “The Kaila brothers used to run their shop on the ground floor of their house, while they were making mava on the second floor,” said NV Rahevar, sub-inspector with Samakhiyali police station. In a similar operation, a mava manufacturing unit was busted in a house on Shahpur Road in Junagadh and three persons were arrested. In fact, police had recieved information about liquor stock there, but when they raided, they found three people making mavas. “We arrested Mayur Vanch (30), Abhay Chauhan (27) and Bhavesh Chauhan (25). We seized five gunny bags of uncut betel nuts, 25 kg cut betel nuts, 30 tins of tobacco, all worth Rs 2.50 lakh from their house,” said Pradeepsinh Jadeja, Junagadh DSP. The trio was operating from a rented place owned by Vinja Bhutiya and they were working for him. Bhutiya is on the run.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/mava-makers-mint-moolah-2-units-busted-in-kutch-junagadh/articleshow/75166774.cms||---
April 16, 2020||Kolkata||Lemon price drops to Rs 2.50/piece after supply resumes||KOLKATA: Lemon price has dropped to Rs 2.50 a piece from Rs 10-Rs 15 a piece a couple of weeks ago. The steep fall followed resumption of supply from Tamil Nadu. “On Sunday night, 12 trucks carrying lemon rolled into Natun Bazar on Chitpore Road. The transporters assured that hurdles had been removed and supply would henceforth be smooth. This had an immediate impact on the price. In the wholesale market, 100 lemons sold for Rs 100,” said West Bengal Vendors’ Association president Kamal Dey. It, however, took around 24 hours for the retail markets to adjust to the new rates. “The price crashed to Rs 3 per piece on Tuesday and further to Rs 2.50 per piece on Wednesday,” said Shankar Das of Barisha Bazar Byabsayee Samity. Until the second week of March, lemon was available in the wholesale market for 50 paisa per piece and was being sold in retail shops at Rs 2 per piece. But from April 1, the price had suddenly jumped to Rs 8 per piece. A bulk of the lemon sold in Kolkata comes from Tamil Nadu. The lockdown disrupted supplies, leading to a shortage. In Natun Bazar, barely two trucks would arrive after the lockdown started. Bengal does produce lemon, most of it in Nadia, but nearly 90% of it is exported to South-East Asia. The Bengal variety is juicy, but does not have the strong aroma that the Tamil Nadu variety does.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/lemon-price-drops-to-rs-2-50/piece-after-supply-resumes/articleshow/75169207.cms||Krishnendu Bandyopadhyay
April 16, 2020||Aurangabad||Aurangabad police plan home delivery of essential goods in red zones||AURANGABAD: The city police are contemplating doorstep deliver of essential items such as grocery, milk, vegetables and medicines in containment zones to ensure stricter implementation of the lockdown and contain the spread of coronavirus. As of now, there are eight containment zones in the areas that have reported 24 Covid-19 cases in the city. “We are working on restructuring the bandobast and handling of the potential containment zones, so that people don’t have to step out of their homes to buy essential items,” police commissioner Chiranjeev Prasad told TOI on Wednesday. The authorities confirmed that they have already started looking for ‘socially sensitive’ police personnel, who, irrespective of their designation, can be deployed as coordinating officers in these areas. The phone number of the coordinating police personnel will be shared with the residents of such areas so that they directly reach out to him/her, instead of stepping out of their homes, in case of an emergency. The coordinating officers will be responsible for keeping their seniors updated about every important development in the area. An officer privy to the move said, “Directly deploying a local leader or an area corporator as coordinator may result in friction between them and others. Hence, we are trying to prevent such a situation.” In addition to this, police are considering to identify grocery stores and pharmacies, preferably run by the residents of these areas, for catering to only containment zones, so that these people do not go out too often. A similar pattern is under way in the limits of Waluj police station, which despite having one of the largest jurisdictions in terms of geographical area, comprising 40 villages, has witnessed least or no friction between the people and police.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/police-plan-home-delivery-of-essential-goods-in-red-zones/articleshow/75169213.cms||Mohammed Akhef
April 16, 2020||Business||Labour crunch likely to hit India Inc's plan to reboot business||MUMBAI/NEW DELHI: The government has permitted manufacturing and other industrial establishments to operate from April 20, but the big question is how will they bridge the gap in labour supply? A large section of migrant workers engaged in contract labour, e-commerce and logistics operations and other project-related activities — estimated at around 5 crore — have returned to their hometowns. According to hiring experts, most of them are unlikely to come back to work immediately. Moreover, there’s no transport which can bring them back. A section of workers may also get engaged with activities around the harvesting season. Rituparna Chakraborty, co-founder and executive VP, TeamLease Services, said, “One should not have a dramatic hope that the migrant workers will return soon. In rural India, there is a deeper concern about their safety. They may not come back till the situation eases.” Aditya Mishra, CEO, CIEL HR Services, said, “Out of the 10,000 people we employ, around 4,000 are in the blue-collared segment of migrants. During this period, we have reached out to thousands of them and the message we get is that their families are concerned about their safety. They are under a lot of stress of staying away from the cities for some time now.” Mishra reckons that the pain for the industry may last 3-4 months till normalcy returns. Raju B Ketkale, deputy MD, Toyota Kirloskar Motor (TKM), said a lot of labour manpower in the automotive industry, including suppliers, are migratory workers who have moved to their respective home districts. “This is so even in case of TKM, and our suppliers wherein many of our workers have moved to neighbouring districts in Karnataka. We anticipate that such workers may need some time to get back to Bengaluru as inter-district travel is also curtailed during the lockdown. Considering such conditions, the first few days may see fewer numbers of workers turning in to office,” said Ketkale. TKM has two plants, located in Bidadi Industrial Estate (Ramanagara District) near Bengaluru employing over 6,000 people. An executive with Hero MotoCorp said that the company does not intend to begin production before May 3, the day when the lockdown ends on an official basis. A senior executive at a leading automaker in the Gurgaon-Manesar industrial belt said, “It is not just one factory that we need to take into account. Many of our suppliers are in the containment zones, and it is practically impossible to source from them. How can we have full production in the absence of key components?” Some organisations are keen on restarting operations with existing labour strength. S Venkatesh, president (group HR), RPG Enterprises, said, “We will start operations partially with whatever labour strength we have, to begin with. We witnessed a flight of labour, but 80% are still with us. Those who have gone back to their native places may not be able to come back in the absence of road and rail networks.” However, moving to a full production capacity would depend on the labour position. Welspun has most of its manufacturing facilities in rural areas — Anjar, Vapi and Bharuch in Gujarat, and Chandanvelly in Telangana — and a majority of its workforce resides in its own colonies. “When the lockdown was implemented, we were able to hold back our migrant workforce and provided them full support. We would be using the workforce from our own premises,” said Akhil Jindal, CFO & head (strategy), Welspun Group. The main challenge in restarting production, said Jindal, is bringing people back to work. “Till the lockdown is over, we don’t plan to bring back any employees/workers inter-state. Our goal is to try to run our plants through available workforce in our colonies and nearby residences to avoid risks to our employees/workers,” said Jindal. “Companies will have to provide incentives to the workers to come back. Suddenly, a job is not a job based on its availability. The supply side is equally important,” said Chakraborty. It is believed that the industry may start tapping into local talent from nearby villages as plan B. This could, however, mean higher costs. Going forward, Mishra said there could be a change in labour migration patterns. “What’s happened following Covid-19 has shattered the confidence of workers in a big way,” said Mishra. On the other hand, new age facilities, such as those of ArcelorMittal/Nippon Steel India have high level of automation and hence there is no requirement of labourers to operate the plant. “We have migrant labourers primarily working in housekeeping areas, which are manageable. We are not dependent on migrant labour for operating the plant,” said Anil Matoo, chief people officer, ArcelorMittal/Nippon Steel India.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/labour-crunch-likely-to-hit-india-incs-plan-to-reboot-biz/articleshow/75168846.cms||Namrata Singh
April 16, 2020||Patna||6.7 lakh migrant workers get relief money: Bihar government||PATNA: The state government has claimed that more than 13 lakh migrant workers from Bihar stranded in other states have registered themselves to receive Rs1,000 each as relief money recently announced by chief minister Nitish Kumar to help them amid the lockdown owing to Covid-19 pandemic. Out of 13 lakh registered migrants, Rs6.7 lakh have already received the payments directly in their bank accounts, the state government stated through a press statement on Wednesday. “CM Nitish Kumar has decided to transfer Rs1000 per family from the Chief Minister Relief Fund in the bank accounts of the workers and needy people of Bihar and residing and stranded in other states due to the lockdown. This scheme is only for those who are residents of Bihar and are stranded in other states due to the lockdown,” the statement reads. A link has been provided on www.aapda.bih.nic through which the stranded migrant workers of the state can register themselves. The documents required for registration include a copy of Aadhaar card and bank account in the name of the beneficiary in any branch in Bihar. Monetary help apart, the office of the resident commissioner of Bihar is also providing food and accommodation facilities to migrant workers in other states. Bihar resident commissioner in New Delhi, Bipin Kumar, said in a statement on Wednesday that necessary help has been provided to altogether 10,31,028 persons, who called at the helpline numbers issued by his office. “We are receiving information about migrant workers stranded in other states through telephone calls, WhatsApp messages and other mediums. We are trying to provide them help in terms of food, lodging and medical care by coordinating with the state governments concerned,” the resident commissioner said. He added: “Providing help to migrant workers is the top most priority of the state government. Entire state government machinery is active and dedicated to this work.” The office of the resident commissioner is also providing free food to migrant workers at relief distribution centres at various places in New Delhi, including Burari, Sangam Vihar, Palam Colony and Kirari among others. Officials claimed that nearly 20,000 people availed the food facility on Tuesday night and around 7,500 availed it on Wednesday morning.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/6-7-lakh-migrant-workers-get-relief-money-govt/articleshow/75166572.cms||---
April 16, 2020||Patna||Bihar Police HQ launches helpline for elderly||PATNA: The state policemen are not only busy enforcing the lockdown sternly in order to contain Covid-19 spread, but also extending all possible assistance to elderly and ailing people in home delivery of medicines and other essential items. Dedicated police teams have been formed in each district to help elderly people round-the-clock in providing medical and other emergency assistance amid the lockdown. The state police headquarters has issued two WhatsApp helpline numbers — 9431820403 and 9905876443 — for seeking assistance. Both numbers have been shared on Bihar Police’s official Facebook page. DGP Gupteshwar Pandey said he has instructed all SPs and SSPs to form dedicated teams under DSP (headquarters) in every district for helping the old and ailing people who have no one to assist at home. “Several such people are in need of food or medicine amid lockdown. They might even require ambulance in emergency. The district level police teams would look after these requirements. If required, police would ensure even home delivery of medicines to such needy elderly persons from market besides taking them to hospital or providing ambulance service when needed,” Pandey said. He said instruction had been issued to the dedicated teams to be kept ready with vehicles for any emergency help to the ailing and old people. Police have already come forward at several places in most generous way and even donated blood and distributed food packets among the hungry and elderly persons. The DGP also said the lockdown period is an opportunity for policemen to improve their public image by doing good work. “SPs and SSPs have already been instructed to create a catalogue of policemen from the rank of constables to officers involved in helping people amid Covid-19 pandemic. We will hold a programme in Patna after situation normalizes and felicitate all such policemen,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/police-hq-launches-helpline-for-elderly/articleshow/75166551.cms||Debashish Karmakar
April 16, 2020||Mangaluru||Free milk for the needy distributed to apartment dwellers in Bantwal||MANGALURU: A post that has been widely circulated on social media portals, particularly WhatsApp, has alleged a serious lapse in the distribution of milk earmarked for supply to the poor and needy. In Bantwal, a resident in an apartment complex shared the following post on WhatsApp: “Ridiculous distribution of milk. Officials came to our flat and distributed milk from the government of Karnataka. This was meant to be provided to the needy families who cannot afford it.” The resident of the apartment complex, opposite the Sri Tirumala Venkataramana Swamy Temple, said that he received the 500ml packet of milk so he could highlight the error. “This packet of milk will be given to the security personnel of the building,” the resident further wrote in the post. Managing director of the Dakshina Kannada Cooperative Milk Producers’ Union Ltd GV Hegde said, “We have been supplying the prescribed quantity of milk to the local bodies. In this case, the milk was supplied to the Bantwal Town Municipal Council, it is their responsibility to ensure the distribution to the intended beneficiaries. We have no role in distributing milk.” “The government has asked us to continue free supply of milk to April 21. The marketing team of the union will ensure that the government’s diktat is communicated to the officials concerned,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mangaluru/free-milk-for-the-needy-distributed-to-apartment-dwellers-in-bantwal/articleshow/75168132.cms||---
April 16, 2020||Rajkot||Gujarat: Amreli cop returns money to fraud victim||RAJKOT: The cyber crime cell Amreli police on Wednesday returned Rs 29,396 to a fraud victim who was duped of Rs 48,000. Complainant Piyush Rathod said he had received a call from an unidentified fraudster who said that his bank had decided to wave off three monthly instalments of his loan as per the government’s directive during coronavirus lockdown period. “The accused asked for the details of Rathod’s bank account and withdrew Rs 48,000 in different transactions. We swung into action after registering the complaint and found that the fraudster had deposited money in different e-wallets. We were able to salvage Rs 29,396 which we returned to Rathod,” said an official from the Amreli cyber cell.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/amreli-cop-returns-money-to-fraud-victim/articleshow/75166983.cms||---
April 16, 2020||Rajkot||Gujarat: Vijapur mamlatdar attacked, three held||PALANPUR: Vijapur police in Mehsana arrested three persons for allegedly attacking Vijapur mamlatdar over renewal of lockdown passes on Wednesday. According to mamlatdar GK Patel, a group of about 15 people came to his office and demanded renewal of passes for movement in Vijapur town during lockdown. Their passes had expired on Tuesday. “I asked them to submit the list of needy families to whom the essential commodities are to be delivered,” said Patel. The group of people got into argument with Patel and resulted in an altercation. While all this was going on, one of the men in the group allegedly slapped Patel. “When the matter got out of control I called the cops,” said Patel.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/vijapur-mamlatdar-attacked-3-held/articleshow/75166918.cms||---
April 16, 2020||Patna||Performing hospital duty despite being in family way||PATNA: Even as roughly more than one third of the world is under some sort of the lockdown, people like nursing officer Anupriya Sharma have devoted their lives for the healthcare services, despite being in the family way. The 29-year-old Anupriya, who is deputed as nursing officer at Indira Gandhi Institute of Medical Sciences (IGIMS), is working in the night shift at the paediatric intensive care unit from 8pm to 7am. When asked if she is afraid of going to the hospital in this condition, Anupriya replied, “Initially, when Covid-19 cases started coming, I was a bit apprehensive and there was some fear in my mind for the safety of my child inside my womb. But we health workers serve others in any adverse condition. I am not afraid anymore, but ensure cleaning and sanitising myself regularly as a precautionary measure,” she said. Not only Anupriya, her two siblings and husband are also in healthcare profession. They stay together in a rented accommodation on Gola Road and are doing their duties. “I have two younger sisters and a brother. My second sister Anupma Sharma, 27, is working as a nursing tutor at IGIMS and my youngest sister is on duty at Covid-19 ward in AIIMS-Patna. My husband Shyamanand Sharma is working as a health manager,” said Anupriya with a sense of pride. She thanked her husband for supporting her and taking her as well as her sisters to their workplaces every day. While Anupriya with her sisters and husband is working with dedication amid the pandemic, her father Arvind Sharma and mother Renu Devi call them everyday to enquire about their working conditions and health. “They are parents and it is natural for them to be worried. They call us every day and advise us to follow all precautions. In fact, my mother was supposed to visit us, but she could not come because of the lockdown,” added Anupriya.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/performing-hospital-duty-despite-being-in-family-way/articleshow/75166522.cms||Sheezan Nezami
April 16, 2020||Patna||Patna schools plan home delivery of books||PATNA: With the start of the new academic session, many schools in the city are making arrangements to home deliver textbooks to their students with the help of the publication houses to ensure that studies aren’t affected due to the lockdown. Students of most schools are yet to get the books for the new academic session as schools had to shut down because of the Covid- 19 lockdown. The Patliputra Sahodaya Complex, a group of CBSE-affiliated schools in Bihar, has asked its constituents to provide textbooks to students at home. “The schools will need to get passes for their school buses from the district administration for delivery of textbooks to students’ homes,” said Sahodaya president, Rajiv Rajan Sinha. Sinha told this newspaper on Wednesday that all its schools have applied for the passes from the district administration. “Home delivery of books will be initiated in coordination with the book-sellers only after the vehicle passes are issued,” he said. Shakti Singh, vice-president of Gyan Ganga Limited, informed that his company delivered books to 200 students of Bishop Scott School and St Joseph’s High School, Kankerbagh during the lockdown. “However, the state government has put a stay on delivery of books to households till April 20. We will start the home delivery of textbooks from April 21,” he said. He added: “Almost all private schools have approached us for delivery of books. We have already printed the textbooks before lockdown and it is in our godown.” Fr Christu Savarirajan SJ, principal of St Xavier’s High School, accepted that distribution of books will be a challenging work as they have more than 3,000 students from KG 1 to X. “These students are scattered across Patna. Deliveries to all will be a tedious process. However, we have asked Ganga Sansar book distributors to deliver the books as the school does not have its own conveyance at present,” he said. R Roy, principal of DAV Public School, Khagaul, said once the booksellers deliver the textbooks to the school administration then only they will be able to start the home delivery to students. Several schools have started online classes and giving online materials in order to ensure no loss of classes. But parents are concerned as they feel physical books are a must. Ajit Singh Kunwer, a resident of Agam Kuan, said it is difficult for his two kids to study without the books. “It is good that their school is conducting online classes, however, without books it is difficult for kids to revise the lessons,” he added. Niharika Rajput, whose daughter studies in Class IV, said she downloaded the soft copies of English, science and mathematics books. “It is not healthy for kids to read the books on computer, laptop or mobile phones. It would be better to study through physical copies,” she said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/schools-plan-home-delivery-of-books/articleshow/75166500.cms||Faryal Rumi
April 16, 2020||Delhi||Civic bodies seek Rs 2,200 crore disaster fund from Delhi government||NEW DELHI: The three municipal corporations in the city have demanded a package of Rs 2,200 crore from Delhi government to deal with Covid-19 pandemic and looming dengue threat. “Our sanitation and health department staff are working in all residential areas, quarantine centres and containment zones. From cleaning roads to lifting biomedical waste, and from spraying insecticides to visiting suspected patients, we are doing our duties despite the fund and staff crunch,” said Kamaljeet Sehrawat, leader of house, South Delhi Municipal Corporation. She added that the civic agency needed at least Rs 600 crore as the disaster fund for buying chemicals, machines as well as hiring additional contractual staff to deal with the present challenges. “We need to prepare an action plan for 2-3 months. It can be implemented in phases, but not without funds,” she added. Jai Prakash, standing committee chairman of the north corporation, said: “Everyday, we are receiving complaints about breeding of mosquitoes and accumulation of garbage in drains. We can’t wait till May or June to initiate operations to curb vector-borne diseases.” “We have asked for Rs 1,100 crore from Delhi government,” he added. “The north corporation has not even been able to pay two months’ salary to its grade four staff,” said Jai Prakash. The municipal corporations claim that they are already working with 20-25% less staff. For doing additional work, they need more people. “We have 17,000 sanitation workers and of them, only 12,000 are coming. They are engaged in multiple activities, ranging from sensitising public to spraying insecticides. But this arrangement can’t go on for long,” Prakash said, adding that the agency has asked for Rs 500 crore to meet the additional expenses. All these issues were discussed at a joint meeting of the civic bodies held via videoconferencing on Wednesday. When contacted, a Delhi government official said: “There is a shortage of staff, but we are still checking when these letters were received. Only after that will we be in a position to reply.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/civic-bodies-seek-rs-2-2k-cr-disaster-fund-from-govt/articleshow/75170070.cms||Vibha Sharma
April 16, 2020||Vadodara||Octogenarian teacher donates Rs 2.21L savings to mayor’s Covid relief fund||Vadodara: Many may have money, but not the heart to part with it even during a tragedy like Covid-19. But Lalita Patel, an octogenarian pensioner, did not even blink before donating Rs2,21,551 to Vadodara mayor’s fund for Covid-19.Many have been donating to mayor’s fund since Covid-19 raised its head in the city. Learning about this, Lalita Patel, a retired government teacher, made up her mind to donate money for the cause. She stays in Chhani Jakatnaka area of the city along with her sister.“I was a government schoolteacher and retired 20 years ago. My needs are meagre. I always walked to school right till my retirement when I was posted at Bakrol and stayed at Vallabh Vidyanagar,” said Patel.Patel said that she decided to stay single and had dedicated her life to children at the schools where she taught. “My sister is a widow and has no children. We stay together,” she said.Looking to provide aid, Patel contacted an employee of Vadodara Municipal Corporation (VMC) staying in the apartment where she too stays. “He directed us and arranged for me to hand over the cheque to the mayor,” she said.Patel said that she and her sister never faced difficulties during the lockdown. “We get whatever we need from the shops nearby. We need little to survive on and are independent. We walk to the shops nearby and get whatever we need,” she said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/octogenarian-teacher-donates-rs-2-21l-savings-to-mayors-covid-relief-fund/articleshow/75166519.cms||Sachin Sharma
April 16, 2020||Surat||Highest single-day spike in positive cases in Surat||Surat: The city witnessed its highest single-day spike in the number of Covid-19 cases with 16 persons testing positive on Wednesday. A 45-year-old woman from New Rander Road, who had tested positive on April 6, died at the New Civil Hospital (NCH) on Wednesday, taking the death toll to four. Health officials said that Yasmin Kapadia, a resident of Bag-e-Rehmad, was suffering from co-morbid conditions including cardio respiratory arrest, hypertension, dyslipidemia and pneumonia. Meanwhile, majority of the positive cases detected were during the community sampling from different parts of the city including central zone, Katargam, Rander, Maandarwaja, Limbayat and Umarwada.“Covid-19 infection is shifting from earlier hotspot Rander to newer areas as positive cases now have been reported from central zone and Limbayat zone. I request people to adhere to all the guidelines issued by government for social distancing and wearing masks, or we will have to take more stringent actions,” said Banchhanidhi Pani, municipal commissioner.Sources said that about 22 new patients with suspected symptoms were admitted in the NCH’s isolation ward on Wednesday.SMC has already declared 12 areas as containment zones which effectively puts nearly 2.91 lakh people into home quarantine in the city.“We have started mass testing in the city in last few days. We have taken 3,781 samples so far from different parts of the city and 593 teams are actively involved in the door-to-door surveillance activity,” the civic body chief said.On Wednesday, 111 people were penalized for not wearing masks at public places in the city.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/highest-single-day-spike-in-positive-cases-in-surat/articleshow/75166505.cms||---
April 16, 2020||Rajkot||Pujara, Rivabaa among 21 to join as ‘police mitras’||Rajkot: As many as 21 persons of Rajkot on Wednesday joined ‘Police Mitra’, a unit of citizens formed by the Rajkot police to help them in enforcing the lockdown. Those who joined the unit include celebrities like Mandhatasinh Jadeja, erstwhile ruler of the state of Rajkot, famous literary persons — Devayat Khawad and Sairam Dave — besides Rivabaa Jadeja, wife of cricketer Ravindra Jadeja.“The main aim behind ‘Police Mitra’ is to unburden the police force, which has been performing its duty tirelessly ever since the lockdown order was imposed,” said Rajkot police commissioner Manoj Agrawal. Each police station is supposed to get each of such unit consisting of 15 to 20 people. The members of ‘Police Mitra’ will be working alongside the cops.The members of ‘Police Mitra’ would also ensure that essential commodities and medicines get delivered at people’s doorsteps, said Agrawal.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/pujara-rivabaa-among-21-to-join-as-police-mitras/articleshow/75166578.cms||---
April 16, 2020||Business||E-tailers may get to sell electronics from Apr 20||John Sarkar & Digbijay Mishra | TNN New Delhi/Bengaluru: Consumers looking to buy more than just daily groceries may be in for some relief as e-commerce majors are getting ready to accept and ship orders after the latest guidelines issued by the home affairs ministry on Wednesday. Deliveries are set to resume after April 20, as online retailers feel that the latest notification does not classify essential and non-essential goods, said industry executives. These may begin with summer essentials, such as fans, refrigerators, cooking paraphernalia like induction stoves and rice cookers and work-from-home items, including, laptops, mobile phones, and other electronic accessories. But delivery timelines may vary from state to state as companies will need to overcome logistics hurdles created by the ongoing lockdown. Mobile phones and electronics account for over half the gross sales of top e-tailers like Flipkart and Amazon India. “We will start taking orders for non-essentials from April 18,” said a senior executive at one of India’s leading online marketplaces. “Our staff strength currently is at 80-85%.” A merchant, who sells on Amazon India, said he was told by the e-tailer to be prepared to start selling again from April 20 and a final communication would be sent once the company gets a final word from the government. The Maharashtra government on Wednesday issued a notification, allowing the sale of electronic appliances apart from food, medicine and other essentials via e-commerce. Other states may soon follow, said senior industry executives. A few online platforms, however, have reached out to the central government for further clarity if they can restart selling across all categories. The move could also led to e-commerce companies sourcing goods from local retailers to deliver them quickly to consumers, as flight and train services remain suspended, said logistics companies. “Neighbourhood brick-and-mortar retailers, who stocked up before the lockdown, have a lot of inventory. Like it happened in the case of essentials, online players would onboard these merchants and follow a hyper-local model instead of sourcing from their warehouses,” said Abhishek Bansal, co-founder of Shadowfax, a last-mile delivery services platform. In some cases, delivery could take anywhere from a week to 10 days. But it would mark a staggered opening of e-commerce after 27 days of lockdown. “This is definitely a positive beginning,” said Rubal Jain, MD of Safexpress. “Consumers, however, need to understand that real-time ground zero situation is very fluid. For instance, in Maharashtra, Mumbai is shut and deliveries in that zone will be tough.” While Flipkart and Snapdeal said it is looking to bring products that consumers need to their doorsteps while maintaining government directives on social-distancing and sanitisation, an Amazon India spokesperson said the firm was evaluating the guidelines. Labour shortage, however, continues to be a concern, especially across large cities. “Things will open but it will take at least one week for the supply chain to be normal,” said Satish Meena, senior forecast analyst at market research firm Forrester.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/e-tailers-may-get-to-sell-electronics-from-apr-20/articleshow/75168542.cms||John Sarkar
April 16, 2020||Rajkot||Industry bodies demand relief package for SMEs||Rajkot: Rajkot chamber of commerce and Industry (RCCI) and Bhavnagar-based Saurashtra Chamber of Commerce and Industry (SCCI) has demanded a relief package for small and medium scale industry from state and central governments. The trade body asked for a financial package so that the industry could survive the losses suffered due lockdown and due falling export demand.In letter to chief minister Vijay Rupani the trade body had demanded waiver of state duty and taxes for at least six months. The trade body demanded other relief package to compensate the loss of fixed cost like salary. The industry bodies also demanded exemption from the payment of employees provident fund, bonus and any other statutory contribution for six months. Meanwhile, The Federation of Kutch Industries Association (FOKIA) has urged Gujarat government to allow industries to resume operations in Kutch district.“Fortunately, by grace of God and thanks to prompt administrative steps by state and district administration, the count of Covid19 patients have been restricted to single digit and that too in two pockets of the district,” said Nimish Phadke, managing director, FOKIA in a letter written to Gujarat chief minister Vijay Rupani.“Government of Gujarat is requested to take a holistic view on this and allow industrial units of the district to resume the manufacturing operations from April 15 on limited or full capacity with a condition to comply by WHO protocols to contain the spread of Covid-19 at the factory premises and residential colonies,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/industry-bodies-demand-relief-package-for-smes/articleshow/75166943.cms||---
April 16, 2020||Surat||Over 20k women join ‘roti’ campaign to feed poor during lockdown||Surat: For Geeta Vaniawala, a housewife in Jehangirpura, cooking five extra rotis has become the routine from the day lockdown was imposed on March 24. She waits for the doorbell to ring in the morning and hands over the rotis to a volunteer from the housing society. These rotis donated by her satiate the hunger of poor hit by the lockdown Just like Geeta, there are nearly 20,000 women from the housing societies, bungalows and apartments from Vesu, Pal, Adajan, Athwalines etc. who have joined the 'roti campaign' initiated by city-based NGO, Surat Manav Seva Sangh ‘Chhanyado’ to feed the hungry in the city. These women, who are unable to move out of their houses during the lockdown, are indirectly feeding tens of thousands of needy every day. According to Chhanydo NGO, at least 1,000 housing societies and row houses have joined in the campaign and nearly 1.15 lakh rotis are collected from the households daily. Chhanydo is running a community kitchen at Amidhara Wadi in Adajan, where about 16 women exclusively cook sabji and chilly pickle and that the rotis collected from the households are packed in the food packet and distributed to some 35,000 people in different parts of the city. “The most tedious job is to cook rotis and we do not have enough staff to prepare in the required quantity. So, I posted a video appealing women to donate five rotis each. The video went viral on the social media platforms and we started receiving overwhelming response from the housing societies,” says Bharat Shah, president of Chhanyado NGO. Shah added, “Every day our volunteers from different areas bring 1.15 lakh rotis at our community kitchen. We prepare the food packets each consisting five rotis, sabji and chilli pickle. Majority of the packets are distributed among the migrant population in the industrial areas including Varachhha, Pandesara, Udhna. Also, we are sending the food packets in the villages of Olpaad.” Rakesh Sethna, a volunteer from Vaishnaodevi Sky apartment in Jehangirpura said, “From our society alone, we are donating more than 6,000 rotis and we will continue to do so till May 3.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/over-20k-women-join-roti-campaign-to-feed-poor-during-lockdown/articleshow/75166678.cms||---
April 16, 2020||Jaipur||City set to get more water from Bisalpur||Jaipur: As the temperature is soaring, the Public Health and Engineering Department (PHED) has decided to increase water supply from Bisalpur reservoir by 35 MLD to Jaipur city. The decision was taken by PHED on Wednesday by consulting officers who said as people are staying at home and temperature is rising, the demand for water is increasing too. Hence, from Thursday onwards, Jaipur will get 35 MLD more water. There are 72 pumping stations connected to Bisalpur dam in the city and information regarding the demand of water in their area has been taken. Based on the report of demand, northern circle will get 10 MLD more and southern circle 25 MLD. Earlier, PHED increased water supply by 40 MLD to the city right after the announcement of lockdown was made by the government.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/city-set-to-get-more-water-from-bisalpur/articleshow/75170069.cms||---
April 16, 2020||Patna||Five samples tested on 1st day at AIIMS-Patna||PATNA: Five samples were tested on the first day at AlIMS-Patna, which has become the sixth testing facility for coronavirus in the state. Till Wednesday morning, 8,263 samples were tested for Covid-19 in Bihar, while 565 samples were under the process, said principal secretary (health) Sanjay Kumar. Dr Neeraj Agarwal, a doctor in community medicine department at AIIMS-Patna, said the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) on Tuesday night gave its nod to AIIMS-P for conducting Covid test. The other five Covid testing centres in the state are Rajendra Memorial Research Institute of Medical Sciences, Indira Gandhi Institute of Medical Sciences, Patna Medical College and Hospital, Darbhanga Medical College and Hospital and SKMCH at Muzaffarpur. According to the data of Indian Council of Medical Research shared on Sunday by historian and writer William Dalrymple, Bihar’s testing rate stood at 48 per million compared to the same figure in Uttar Pradesh, 593 per million in Delhi, followed by 365 per million in Kerala, 298 per million in Rajasthan, 273 per million in Maharashtra, 115 per million in Uttarakhand, 103 per million in Gujarat and 72 per million in Madhya Pradesh. Bihar and Uttar Pradesh were at the bottom of the list.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/five-samples-tested-on-1st-day-at-aiims-patna/articleshow/75166568.cms||---
April 16, 2020||Patna||Monsoon in Bihar to be delayed by almost a week||PATNA: India Meteorological Department (IMD) has revised the normal onset and withdrawal dates for southwest monsoon in Bihar. As per a statement issued by Patna Meteorological Centre on Wednesday, the revised onset date for two representative stations of Gaya is June 16 against the earlier date of June 12, while it is June 18 for Chhapra against the earlier date of June 13. For withdrawal of southwest monsoon, the revised date is October 8 for Gaya against the earlier date of October 12 and October 6 for Chhapra against the earlier date of October 8. The normal dates of onset of monsoon have been revised based on data for the period 1961-2019, while the revised normal dates of withdrawal are based on data between 1971 and 2019. Monsoon is making delayed onset in the state in most years at least over the past two decades. Monsoon makes its foray into mainland India through Kerala coast by June 1 and it is normally scheduled to enter Bihar through the northeastern districts of Purnia and Kishanganj around June 10-12 and takes another 2-4 days to cover the entire state. However, in 2019, southwest monsoon made its onset on June 22 — a delay of around 11 days from its normal onset date. In 2015 also, the rain-bearing clouds entered the state on June 22. “IMD headquarters decided to revise the onset and withdrawal of southwest monsoon following identification of consistent abnormality in the same at many places in the country. The change in monsoon onset and withdrawal dates has been made based on assessment of database of the same for past several decades,” said an official at Patna Meteorological Centre. Meteorological experts termed the changes as nominal and remained concerned over the plunge in overall rainfall in the June to September season. “The onset and withdrawal dates have been revised by four to six days, which is quite nominal. Moreover, the monsoon onset date is a technical term for meteorologists and it is the intensity and distribution of rainfall, which concerns common people. Unfortunately, the amount of rainfall in all districts in Bihar except Sheohar has been found to be constantly decreasing between 1989 and 2017,” said Pradhan Parth Sarthi, secretary of Patna chapter of India Meteorological Society and professor of environmental science at Central University of South Bihar. He attributed the gradual plunge in monsoon rainfall in the state to several factors, including reduction in the frequency of formation of depression over the Bay of Bengal and lack of formation of widespread monsoon clouds among others. Rains expected at isolated places till April 18: Patna weatherman has predicted light showers with thunder or lightning at one or two places in Bihar, except southwest and south-central parts of the state till April 18. “The showers and thundering are expected due to a cyclonic circulation over east Uttar Pradesh and a western disturbance, which passed across Jammu and Kashmir a few days ago,” an official at the Met office said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/monsoon-to-be-delayed-by-almost-a-week/articleshow/75166672.cms||Piyush Tripathi
April 16, 2020||Patna||QR code-enabled waste collection in Patna soon||PATNA: The Patna Municipal Corporation (PMC) is planning to implement QR code-enabled door-to-door garbage collection work in the city soon. A sum of Rs 13 crore is likely to be spent on the project. The step will be taken to address shortcomings such as sanitation staff skipping houses and monitor the coverage of door-to-door waste collection vehicles. According to officials of the Patna Smart City Limited (PSCL), the civic body will rope in a private or government agency to fit a QR code-based RFID (radio frequency identification) tag to every house. The online bidding process for undertaking the work is likely to begin by April-end. PMC commissioner and PSCL managing director Himanshu Sharma told this newspaper on Wednesday, “After collecting garbage from a house, the sanitation worker will scan its QR code with a reader every day. This will automatically be fed into the online database of the civic body and used to keep tabs on the waste collection vehicles in all six circles.” A control room will also be set up at the PMC headquarters for the purpose of monitoring the door-to-door waste collection work. “Once our workers collect the garbage, a message will be sent to the registered number of the residents. Those, who want to register a complaint, can do so on a mobile app that will be developed as part of this project,” Sharma said and added that all auto tippers would be equipped with GPS vehicle tracking system. Urban development and housing department secretary Anand Kishor claimed that the QR code-enabled waste collection would be implemented on pilot basis in all wards of Patna.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/qr-code-enabled-waste-collection-in-patna-soon/articleshow/75166647.cms||Faryal Rumi
April 16, 2020||Kolkata||Area watch in north Kolkata after relatives attend woman’s last rites||KOLKATA: KMC will conduct an intensive disinfection drive in a north Kolkata neighbourhood off Bidhan Sarani on Thursday aimed at not only to eliminate any trace of novel coronavirus but also to dispel fear among residents after six people from a family, who had attended a 70-year-old woman’s funeral on Tuesday, were quarantined at the New Town facility on Wednesday. The woman, who had been admitted to an Amherst Street hospital with heart ailments and displayed Covid-19-like symptoms, died on Tuesday and her body was brought to the locality. Several relatives assembled to pay their respects. A list of 15 more people who had reportedly come in contact with the deceased, either just before her death or after, has been drawn up. They include relatives who went for the last rites on Tuesday evening and health workers at the hospital. “We will sanitize the area to reassure people that all is fine,” said local councillor Mohammed Jasimuddin. KMC’s solid waste management wing will take up the disinfection drive at each house, including the building, where the deceased lived. A civic medical team will also visit the neighbourhood to carry out a fever survey. “We will check whether anyone in the locality has fever or respiratory troubles. If we find such people, we will send them to KMC clinics for a check-up,” he said. Jasimuddin confirmed the state health department had promptly sent a team to the locality on Wednesday morning and six of the family members were sent to the quarantine centre. “The health team did not waste time and addressed the issue by quarantining the family members. The KMC will cleanse the locality on Thursday,” he said. Administrative sources and those in the central division of police said as a fairly large number of people had turned up for the cremation, more people needed to be quarantined. The Jorasanko-Amherst Street being a densely populated area, both KMC and police have asked the son of the deceased to prepare a list of those who came in contact. “We knew her swab samples had been sent for test but weren’t aware whether she tested positive or not. Only a handful went for the cremation,” a relative told TOI. Health and KMC officials are keeping an eye on are4as, like Bowbazar, Amherst Street, College Street, on finding three Covid-19 patients there, the latest being an assistant sub-inspector.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/area-watch-in-central-kol-after-relatives-attend-womans-last-rites/articleshow/75169272.cms||Saikat Ray
April 16, 2020||Kolkata||Essentials in stock for lockdown period and beyond, say West Bengal retailers||KOLKATA: On Tuesday afternoon, hours after the Prime Minister’s announcement of extending the lockdown till May 3, the state government took stock of essentials in the markets. During the meeting, the wholesalers gave details of the stock-and-supply scenario and flagged some loading-unloading issues that had cropped up due to acute shortage of labourers. “As far as basic essentials are concerned, we have no supply constraint. We have listed the staples without which kitchens cannot be run. We have a steady supply of rice, pulses, atta, edible oil, salt and spices. Earlier if we had any issue with the supply, we flagged them and they were resolved almost on a real-time basis by the officers,” said Biswanath Agarwal, general secretary of Posta Merchants’ Association. According to the association, the prices of most of the essential commodities have remained stable — the price of edible oil and pulses increased marginally. Apart from the state government, the Union consumer affairs ministry has been monitoring the prices of 22 essential commodities on a day-to-day basis, said a senior state government officer. “Initially, there were some hitches in the supply chain. We were worried about the edible oil stock. But the state government officials coordinated with Rajasthan and Haryana governments to prioritize the edible oil supply and we could tide over the imminent crisis with supply steadying very fast. But we cannot supply edible oil in tetra packs because of short supply of packaging materials. However, there is no shortage of the 15kg tins,” said Agarwal. The Retailers Association of India (RAI) has also assured that there is enough stock. “There is enough stock of grains, pulses and other daily essentials for the extended lockdown period and beyond. There is no need for citizens to believe otherwise and engage in panic buying,” a member said. RAI also said that the association, along with its members, is working closely with various state governments, including that of Bengal, and with the Centre to resolve supply concerns with regards to essentials. A day after the chief minister announced the extension of lockdown till April 30, there was a fresh bout of panic buying at various pockets of the city. However, shops were asked by the government to ration staples so that hoarding could be avoided. “This policy somehow helped. We also did not run out of stock as had happened after March 24,” said Arun Tarafdar, a retailer at Parnasree. “About 90% buyers had earlier, when the lockdown was first announced, tried to hoard essentials and picked up as much as they could. This panic buying put a strain on the supply chain. But now people have the confidence that the essentials will not vanish. Only 10% tried to stock up on essentials in bulk after the extension was announced,” said Gourango Karmakar, a grocery retailer at Kidderpore Market. Sources said the government must slowly extend the exemption to other categories of products. There are many items which are allied with essentials, like packaging materials. “Unless full-scale trading of packaging materials is allowed, the supply of essentials will be affected,” said Samsuddin Haq, who runs a packaging unit of grocery products.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/essentials-in-stock-for-lockdown-period-and-beyond-say-retailers/articleshow/75169178.cms||Krishnendu Bandyopadhyay
April 16, 2020||Kolkata||Construction green light for four realty projects in Kolkata||KOLKATA: Work on the tallest tower in the city and at least three township projects in the suburbs is set to resume following a nod to the real estate sector from both the Centre and state on Wednesday. The Shapoorji Pallonji Group that is developing Joyville, an affordable housing project in Howrah’s Salap, was the first to respond to the go-ahead. “We have already started talking to our construction partners to commence work slowly, utilizing the workforce that has been staying at our project site since the lockdown was implemented,” said Joyville Shapoorji Housing managing director Sriram Mahadevan. Shriram Grand City that is developing a township project in Hind Motor, Hooghly, is also set to commence work while adhering to the social distancing norms. Though a large section of the workforce has returned home, Shriram Properties is keen to resume work in whatever way it can for the project to retain some momentum so that it can roll full-steam once labourers are allowed back. Alcove Realty executive director Yashasvi Shroff, too, said the company would revive work on the New Kolkata project in Serampore. “We are liaising with the construction partners to restart work, as well as with vendors to source the materials needed. Now there is no embargo on movement of material,” said Shroff. The group is also anxious to resume work on The 42, the 63-storey luxury residential project in Chowringhee that was nearing completion when the Covid-19 lockdown halted work. “We have started assessing the materials and manpower available on the site. If there is a match between the material and the men required to work with them, we will resume work immediately,” said Shroff. Sushil Mohta, president of Credai-Bengal, the umbrella body of developers in the state, said the challenge with most projects was labour as most workers hailed from districts like Murshidabad, Malda and Bankura and had left for their homes immediately after the chief minister announced the lockdown. “We have written to the state to allow us to bring labourers back and have committed to improve sanitization on site and ensure social distancing norms are followed. We will not do anything that jeopardises the government’s efforts to contain the spread of Covid-19,” said Mohta. Nandi Belani, who represents major developers in the city through Credai’s Kolkata chapter, said ready-mix concrete plants also needed to operate for construction to begin. “This is a positive step to restart the economy,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/construction-green-light-for-four-realty-projects/articleshow/75169248.cms||Subhro Niyogi
April 16, 2020||Agra||Two in general ward at Agra hospital die of Covid-19; patients in panic, scared doctors, staff isolated||AGRA: Doctors, paramedical staff and sanitation workers of Agra’s Government Medical College are in a panic after two patients, who were admitted in general wards, tested positive for Covid-19 after their deaths. The two patients, a 57-year-old man admitted in ICU for respiratory ailment, and a 13-year-old girl in the paediatric ward, died in the last 72 hours. As news of the reason for their death spread in the hospital, a wave of panic swept through the other wards, terrifying patients and administrators alike. Over 30 doctors and other staff were soon quarantined by the hospital administration. It is feared that hundreds of staffers, including 150 doctors, 300 junior residents, 150 staff nurses might have had direct or indirect exposure to the victims. A senior doctor, on condition of anonymity, told TOI, “If some patients are admitted in the ward and tested positive for Covid-19 later, like these two patients, then the entire staff is at the risk of getting infected as no extra precautions are being taken in the non-Covid wards. Also, the quarantine period for direct contacts should be 14 days, which is not being provided to medicos due to overload of work.” Principal of SN Medical College, GK Aneja, said, "The man who was in ICU had been tested for Covid-19 but the first result came negative. The girl, however, was not tested for Covid-19 as she had no travel history or contact with other Covid-19 patients."||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/agra/2-in-gen-ward-at-agra-hosp-die-of-covid-patients-in-panic-scared-docs-staff-quarantined/articleshow/75169196.cms||Anuja Jaiswal
April 16, 2020||Surat||‘I feel like a winner after defeating Covid-19’||SURAT: Mangesh Vanare, 22, felt like a winner when doctors and nurses at New Civil Hospital (NCH) gave him a heart-warming farewell on his discharge after he recovered from coronavirus here on Wednesday. “I feel like a winner. I have defeated coronavirus and it was only due to care and compassion of doctors and nurses at NCH. All the doctors and nurses stood in a row and they clapped for my fast recovery,” said Mangesh, an employee of DMart and resident of Pandesara, who had tested positive for COVID-19 on April 1. The scene at the housing society where Vanare resides was also similar. The residents accorded a warm welcome to Vanare by beating thalis and showering him with rose petals. “I had not expected residents of my society to give me a warm welcome. When I entered from the main gate, people showered me with flower petals, they clapped and beat the thalis to welcome me. I was not ready for such a warm welcome in my society,” said Vanare. Vanare added, “The residents of my society and my colleagues at DMart have gone through a lot of agony after I tested positive for the virus. With folded hands, I want to say sorry to all of them.” After Vanare tested positive for the virus, Surat Municipal Corporation (SMC) had closed down D-Mart supermarket located at Pandesara and about 1,493 customers, who visited the store, asked to get themselves self-quarantined. “My mother, father, brother and about half a dozen family members were quarantined in a government hospital. My mother tested positive for the virus and was shifted to NCH. She is on the path of recovery and I am told that she will be discharged in a day or two,” said Vanare. Vanare said he has posted a message on social media platforms about his recovery from the deadly disease. “My message on social media platforms will boost the morale of many who are suffering from the disease. It will give them hope that they too can defeat the deadly disease,” said Vanare Health officials said Vanare was eighth patient to be discharged from NCH after recovery from the disease. Vanare has been advised home quarantine for 14 days.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/i-feel-like-a-winner-after-defeating-coronavirus-vanare/articleshow/75166600.cms||---
April 16, 2020||Rajkot||Rajkot Marketing Yard opens for trade||Rajkot: Rajkot Marketing Yard resumed functioning on Wednesday with a condition that all its members would adhere to the norms of social distancing. The marketing yard also opened a facility for telephonic registration for its farmers who can book the sale of their agriculture produce without having to come to the yard till April 21, said a press release.The numbers are as follows: Rajkot Marketing Yard, Bedi, (6356066031 and 6353398635), Gondal Marketing Yard (7359280567 and 9879500872), Jasdan Marketing Yard (9586683983), Jetpur Marketing Yard (9638596111 and 9978117573), Upleta Marketing Yard (9033316910 and 9925028022) and Dhoraji Marketing Yard (9925024370).||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/rajkot-marketing-yard-opens-for-trade/articleshow/75166652.cms||---
April 16, 2020||Rajkot||Kutch man succumbs to Covid-19 infection||Rajkot: A 62-year-old man from Madhapar village in Bhuj taluka of Kutch district succumbed to coronavirus infection. The deceased Jagdishchandra Soni died at G K General hospital in Bhuj. Doctors said tha Soni was suffereing from other co-morbid diseases like hypertension and chronic obstructive pulmonary disease. Soni’s wife and daughter-in-law too were tested positive for the virus and are recovering at the G K General hospital. Doctors said that Soni was admitted about 10 days back.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/kutch-man-succumbs-to-covid-19-infection/articleshow/75166555.cms||---
April 16, 2020||Business||RBI’s bond refinance cap at 10% of a single issuer||Mayur Shetty | TNN Mumbai: To ensure that the cheap refinance it provides to banks is not cornered by large corporates, the Reserve Bank of India (RBI) has tightened rules for the targeted long-term repo-lending operations (TLTROs) under which it provides liquidity support to lenders. Under the new rules announced on Wednesday, the maximum amount that a bank can invest in bonds issued by a business group out of the allotment received by it under the TLTRO shall be capped at 10%. So, if a bank receives Rs 10,000 crore as refinance, it can invest only Rs 1,000 crore in bonds of a single group. After introduction of the facility, Reliance Industries (RIL) has been among the largest issuers. Recently, RIL is understood to have finalised a Rs 9,000-crore three-year bond issue. Investment banking sources said that these bonds are likely to be priced at a yield of 7.2%. Half of the issue is likely to be fixed and the other half at a floating rate. The RBI has already lent banks Rs 75,000 crore under its TLTRO, the next tranche of Rs 25,000 crore will be offered on April 17. If half of the existing Rs 75,000 crore were invested in a secondary issue of bonds, the size available for primary issuance is Rs 37,500 crore. RIL’s issue size is almost a fourth of this. Under the TLTRO, the RBI lends banks three-year money at the prevailing repo rate, which is 4.4%. This money has to be invested in bonds within a month. The RBI has said that it will lend up to Rs 1 lakh crore in all. Half of this is to refinance bonds that are being resold by mutual funds or finance companies who want to generate cash. The other half has to be invested in a primary issuance by corporate or finance companies looking to raise funds. So far, the RBI has lent Rs 75,000 crore. Meanwhile, bond dealers and finance companies said that the RBI’s rate cuts have not helped as yield on government bonds continue to be high and state governments are borrowing at close to 8%. “When yields on government bonds are so high, there is no incentive for a bank to go out and take credit risks. The RBI must buy bonds to bring down yields,” said a dealer.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/rbis-bond-refinance-cap-at-10-of-a-single-issuer/articleshow/75168732.cms||Mayur Shetty
April 16, 2020||Business||Rupee slips 16p to new low of 76.44 against dollar||Mumbai: The rupee weakened by 16 paise to close at an all-time low of 76.44 against the dollar in line with the weakness in the equity markets. The rupee opened strong at 76.07, as the sensex gained over 1,000 points intraday and dealers said that the currency briefly ruled the 75 level. However, with the BSE benchmark slipping back into the red, the rupee also slid to close at a new low. “While emerging markets have recovered marginally against the dollar, the rupee has weakened as there were fresh estimates of the economic cost of dislocation after the lockdown was extended. While there has been a pause in the dollar appreciation, there is no reversal. There is some import covering happening but there are not any dollars to be sold,” said Ashish Vaidya, country treasurer, DBS Bank. He added that the next move on the rupee could be after the government announces the economic package as the Centre’s spending will put pressure on the fiscal deficit. A sharp increase in the deficit numbers would risk triggering a downgrade. This in turn would lead to funds that are mandated to invest in investment grade paper exiting the country as the sovereign rating acts as a ceiling for all issuers in India. The trade deficit coming in at $9.8 billion, which is higher than expected, could also put pressure on the rupee. The RBI has spent several billion dollars in its bid to stamp out volatility in the forex markets. RBI officials have repeatedly said that the central bank does not target any particular level but merely tries to maintain orderly conditions. In its monetary policy report released earlier this week the central bank revealed that it has woven in an exchange rate of Rs 75 against the dollar into its assumptions.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/rupee-slips-16p-to-new-low-of-76-44-against-dollar/articleshow/75168668.cms||---
April 16, 2020||Rajkot||35-year-old woman sexually assaulted, killed in Rajkot||RAJKOT: The body of a 35-year-old woman was found half naked on the outskirts of Khambha village of Lodhika taluka in Rajkot district on Tuesday. An unidentified biker was booked for her murder. Police suspect that the deceased was sexually assaulted before she was murdered, as there were injury marks on her private parts. “It appears that the assailants had allegedly used the victim’s dupatta to strangle her as the cloth was found tied around her neck. The body was spotted by a villager, Kuldeepsinh Gohel, who alerted the village sarpanch, Rajendrasinh Jadeja, who informed us,” said Pratipalsinh Zala, Gondal deputy superintendent of police. The preliminary investigation of the police revealed that the victim used to work as a maid at a family residing at Nanavati Chowk on 150-Feet Ring Road in Rajkot. The victim originally hailed from Junagadh. “The victim took leave from her employers to go to her mother’s house in Junagadh on Monday night. Her employers asked her to stay back till the end of the lockdown period. However, the victim did not listen to them and left home for Junagadh,” said M N Rana, inspector with Rajkot rural local crime branch. The officials of Gandhigram police station stopped the victim at Nanavati Chowk. The cops told her that they would try to arrange for a vehicle to take her to Junagadh and asked her to sit there. When the cops got busy in vehicle checking, the victim walked away from there, stealthily. “When Gandhigram police station officials told us about their meeting with the victim, we checked the CCTV footages of the area and found that an unidentified biker was taking the victim,” said Rana. “Her employers said that they had also called up the victim to know whether she had reached Junagadh. The victim, however, lied to them and said that she had reached Junagadh,” added Rana. The police traced the location of her cellphone which took them to the crime spot where her bag was recovered. (The victim's identity has not been revealed to protect her privacy as per Supreme court directives on cases related to sexual assault)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/35-yr-old-woman-sexually-assaulted-killed-in-rajkot/articleshow/75166890.cms||---
April 16, 2020||Patna||Ensure max wheat procurement: Bihar CM||PATNA: CM Nitish Kumar on Wednesday asked the state government officials to ensure maximum procurement of wheat through the primary agriculture cooperative societies (PACSs) at village or panchayat level in order to provide necessary relief to farmers in this hour of crisis caused due to the lockdown. “If wheat is procured through the PACS, the farmers will get price of their crop within their gram panchayat. Today, each panchayat has at least one PACS. Ensure procurement of wheat on a larger scale through the PACS, so that farmers do not need to wander here and there to sale their produce,” Nitish told officials while holding a review meeting through videoconferencing, with different departments on the situation caused by the lockdown. CM said there was no restriction on agriculture-related works due to the lockdown. “Make all necessary arrangements at the PACS level to ensure maximum procurement of wheat. Also ensure payment to farmers within stipulated period from the date of purchase,” he said. He further asked the water resources department (WRD) to resume all pending anti-erosion and anti-flood works on a priority basis so that such construction works are completed before the monsoon in mid June. “All anti-flood works should be revisited and completed before the beginning of the rainy season,” he told the WRD officials. Nitish further asked works department to resume their pending projects in rural areas so that villagers could get maximum opportunity of employment. “Focus on generating employment in rural areas. Take up works like digging of ponds under the MGNREGS,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/cm-ensure-max-wheat-procurement/articleshow/75166692.cms||---
April 16, 2020||Patna||Universities, colleges in Bihar switch to ‘work-from-home’ mode||PATNA: The extended Covid-19 lockdown has prompted universities and colleges in Bihar to adopt the work-from-home culture and turn into “distance learning centres”. Since all educational institutes are shut, many universities have either started or are planning to begin online classes. Taking the lead, Patna University (PU) has created an e-content depository and YouTube channel for imparting online education. A timetable for the students of different subjects was uploaded to the university’s website on Wednesday. They can contact the teacher concerned for discussion on a particular topic during the specified time slot. PU pro-vice-chancellor (VC) Dolly Sinha told this newspaper, “A detailed timetable with teachers’ names and topics of different postgraduate (PG) academic programmes has already been finalized and uploaded. Students have also started contacting teachers through WhatsApp, video chat, e-mail or cellphone. This practice is likely to continue till April 30.” More than 22 second semester PG students of the PU physics department have participated in four online classes of one hour duration each so far. “We shared notes with the students and gave them assignments to work on,” said physics teacher Ashok Kumar Jha. Patna Science College teachers have also conducted two classes of BCA students using the Zoom app. PU had asked its teachers as well as guest faculty members to prepare e-content for students. More than 200 topics have already been uploaded to the university’s website. “Online classes are being organized only for PG students of PU. All undergraduate courses have already been completed and students are anxiously waiting for their exams,” said the pro-VC. Meanwhile, Patliputra University, Purnea University, Munger University, Lalit Narayan Mithila University, Babasaheb Bhimrao Ambedkar Bihar University and Magadh University have also initiated necessary steps for arranging online classes for students. Munger University VC R K Verma has directed the faculty members to develop e-content by preparing video lectures and providing notes and assignments during the lockdown period.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/universities-colleges-switch-to-work-from-home-mode/articleshow/75166610.cms||B K Mishra
April 16, 2020||Patna||Those found at Ganga ghats in Patna will face action: DM||PATNA: The district administration will identify and take action against those who defied the lockdown and thronged the Ganga ghats in Patna to take a bath and perform the rituals of ‘Satuani’, a traditional harvest festival, on Tuesday. The district administration and police are identifying them through the video footage of CCTV cameras installed at the Ganga ghats. A police complaint would be lodged against them for violating the lockdown norms. Residents in large numbers had gathered at Kangan ghat, Damrahi ghat, Bhadra ghat, Quila ghat, Mahavir ghat, Sherpur ghat and Fatuha ghat among others to take a holy dip in the Ganga on the occasion of Satuani. Patna DM Kumar Ravi said on getting information, he immediately alerted the police stations to disperse the people. “The police will take action against the violators after identifying them,” he said on Wednesday. Maner police station SHO Madhusudan Kumar said constables were deputed at Haldi Chhapra ghat as a precautionary measure and only five to eight people could reach there. “They were priests of local temples. A large number of people gathered at Sherpur ghat, where we were not expecting the crowd. The constables later dispersed them. We are identifying the violators to initiate action against them,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/those-found-at-city-ganga-ghats-will-face-action-dm/articleshow/75166532.cms||---
April 16, 2020||Kolkata||Don’t spread confusion over death figures: West Bengal CM Mamata Banerjee||KOLKATA: Chief minister Mamata Banerjee has sent out a stern message against raising alarm over unaudited death figures in Bengal. Banerjee warned that those spreading confusion over Covid-19 deaths may be arrested. “I told the PM during video conference that the state government has set up an expert medical panel to audit death figures. Neither I nor the chief secretary is doing it. The Union health secretary was present at the video conference. Yet, some people are making secretive leaks on death figures. From where are they getting the confirmation? States are doing the work. You have to take the figures we give,” the CM said. Chief secretary Rajiva Sinha put the death figures so far at seven. “The medical expert panel will meet today and do the audit. The death figures will be updated tomorrow following this exercise,” Sinha said. Banerjee held that such efforts smack of politics. “Some people are trying to fish in troubled waters. This is not the time for communal virus or political virus. Let us all cooperate to fight the health virus. Let us surge ahead with a positive mind. A total 42 people have been cured. Doctors at Beliaghata ID Hospital and North Bengal Medical College and Hospital could do that. Some of the patients came with chronic kidney ailments, pneumonia and tuberculosis. They died,” the CM said. She urged people not to get scared. “Anyone can catch the infection. I may get the infection, too. But healthy people have been found to recover,” the CM said, adding that the DG CRPF is also under quarantine. The CM also refuted charges brought by Bengal BJP president Dilip Ghosh who claimed the other day that the number of tests on people having fever and cough in Bengal is far less than the national average when Bengal caters to 17% of the country’s population. “We began the testing with two testing laboratories. Each of them has a maximum capacity of testing 100 swab samples. Now the number has increased. We are also ramping up tests. Today, a testing laboratory from Malda got the ICMR’s permission. But we can’t allow the laboratory to start testing from tomorrow. The laboratory doesn’t have trained technicians. The employees there are undergoing training,” Banerjee said. The chief minister also set aside the demand for paramilitary forces to enforce the lockdown. “What will the paramilitary forces do here?” she asked. The CM then went on the aggressive citing the flocking of migrant labourers at Bandra railway station in Maharashtra on Tuesday evening. “I talked to some of the migrant workers stranded at Khar West on Ambedkar Road. They had come to Bandra after rumour spread that a special train will be carrying them back home. I want to know who spread the rumour. Who did the mischief and why?” she asked. On the same breath, Banerjee thanked the Maharashtra government for attending to the migrant workers from Bengal stranded in several places in Maharashtra. “The Centre had said it would provide food to migrant workers free of cost. In reality, states are doing the job. We have also set up 711 camps for workers from other states caught in Bengal,” the CM said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/dont-spread-confusion-over-death-figures-cm/articleshow/75169227.cms||---
April 16, 2020||Business||Falling rupee makes it a sweeter deal for Facebook||BENGALURU: The falling value of rupee against the dollar made the mega $5.7-billion investment in Jio Platforms a sweeter deal for Facebook. The rupee, which has fallen by 8% since the start of the year, closed Wednesday’s session in the forex market 16 paise up at Rs 76.67 a dollar. That is still near record lows, while the deal was fixed at about Rs 70 a dollar. This would translate into savings of $500-600 million for Facebook, which is sitting on a cash pile of more than $54 billion, according to sources briefed on the matter. But the falling rupee did not play a pivotal factor in the fate of the deal, as the initial partnership was first discussed as far back as late 2018 and early 2019. Discussions for the deal accelerated around November. That was when the conversion rate for the transaction was fixed, according to one of the sources briefed on the matter. Read AlsoJio accepts FB friend request, sells 10% stake for record Rs 43,574 croreSocial media giant Facebook has agreed to invest $5.7 billion or Rs 43,574 cr for a 9.99% stake in Jio Platforms, a unit of Reliance Industries (RIL). Mark Zuckerberg said they plan on projects which will open up commerce opportunities across India. The transaction, which is among the largest FDI“This was a deal where the conversion rate was fixed as both parties wanted to be certain about the payouts as they discussed it with their board,” said a person directly involved in the transaction. In some mega-deals, parties also decide to keep the conversion rate floating, said this source. Another source said that the deal has been structured in rupees given that Jio’s business is in India and returns earned will be calculated in the local currency. Reliance Industries’ statement announcing the deal pegged the enterprise valuation of Jio Platforms at $65.95 billion based on the conversion of Rs 70 to a dollar.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/falling-rupee-makes-it-a-sweeter-deal-for-facebook/articleshow/75306969.cms||Madhav Chanchani
April 16, 2020||Kolhapur||KMC poll schedule depends on fight against Covid-19||Kolhapur: The schedule for Kolhapur Municipal Corporation (KMC) elections is likely to remain unaltered if the ongoing Covid-19 pandemic ends in the next couple of months. The civic elections are scheduled to be held in November and the preparation for updating the voter list and ward reservation is slated to begin in June. The model code of conduct for the elections is likely to come into effect in October. A couple of days ago, the state election commission deferred the elections for some municipal corporations and councils to be held in June by three months. The process of drafting the voter list and ward reservation has been asked to stop immediately as all civic administrations are busy dealing with the Covid-19 outbreak. A senior KMC official said, "We have not initiated any sort of election-related work. Last month, we had decided to seek applications from former civic staff to assist us in election-related work. We have received the applications, but we are yet to scrutinise them as everyone is focussed on dealing with the coronavirus crisis. We have received no communication from the election commission either." Also, a lot depends on how the the monsoon rolls out this year. Last year, owing to unprecedented floods in Panchganga river over 10,000 families had to be moved to shelter homes. According to the official, monsoon will be one of the hurdles in preparing for the elections and if there are floods, the entire civic machinery will be busy till October-end. "Before elections are held or scheduled the election commission takes into consideration all the factors which may affect the process. Also the political parties will also be consulted. If the coronavirus crisis ends and there is no havoc due to monsoon, we expect the elections to take place in November itself," the official said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolhapur/kmc-poll-schedule-depends-on-fight-against-covid-19/articleshow/75169223.cms||---
April 16, 2020||Madurai||Liquor worth Rs 5 lakh stolen from Tuticorin Tasmac outlet||MADURAI: Liquor bottles worth Rs 5 lakh were stolen from a tasmac outlet in Tuticorin on Tuesday. All Tasmac outlets in the state have remained closed following the lockdown that was announced to contain the spread of Covid-19.  During the late hours of Tuesday, a few miscreants gained entry into the Tasmac outlet located near VOC vegetable market at V E Road. They stole the liquor bottles kept inside the outlet. The incident came to light on Wednesday morning. According to police, the miscreants gained entry into the outlet by drilling a hole through the backside wall of the outlet. The Tuticorin Central police have registered a case and are on a lookout for the miscreants involved in the incident.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/liquor-worth-rs-5-lakh-stolen-from-tuticorin-tasmac-outlet/articleshow/75170072.cms||---
April 16, 2020||Agra||Agra admin starts door-to-door thermal screening in 37 hotspots of dist||AGRA: To detect each and every person infected by Covid-19 and stop the spread of the virus, the district administration has launched a drive to conduct thermal screening of all those living in hotspot areas. Teams of the health department have started door-to-door screening, and details of people having cough, fever or any problem in breathing are being recorded and their samples are being collected. A separate list of all those who had come in direct or indirect contact of those that were tested positive for the virus earlier is being prepared. Meanwhile, one more Covid-19 positive case surfaced in Agra on Wednesday, increasing the district's tally to 149. The new case was a contact of a patient at a private clinic who had tested positive earlier. The owner of the clinic in Ghatiya Azam Khan locality, a senior doctor and his compounder were also tested positive for Covid-19 earlier. Late on Tuesday night, a doctor associated with a private hospital in Hariparwat locality was also tested positive for Covid-19. A female kidney patient who had been admitted for dialysis in a facility having a blood bank was also tested positive for the virus. The blood bank was sealed by the health department on Wednesday. Chief medical officer Mukesh Kumar Vats said, “All the three patients have been shifted to an isolation facility. All their contacts are being traced. We have started thermal screening of all those living in the 37 active hotspots of the city. Massive sample testing will be done in these areas. All suspected coronavirus cases will be shifted to the quarantine facilities. People in these areas are being asked to remain under home quarantine.” At least 76 out of the 149 Covid-19 positive cases reported in the city are related to people who had attended the Tablighi Jamaat event in Delhi and their contacts. Besides, three health centres have emerged as a major coronavirus hotspots. These include a private hospital on national highway-2, another such establishment in Rakabganj locality and a clinic in Ghatiya Azam Khan locality. At least one coronavirus positive cases are related to staffers and patients of these health centres. The 37 localities that have been declared coronavirus hotspots include Azampara, Mantola, Fuwarra, Matgai, Heen Ki Mandi, Topkhana, Gadhiya, Sabun Katra, Rambagh, Sarai Khawaja, Hasapura in Khandoli block, Ajmeri Khana, Dhuliyaganj, Bagh Rajpur, Charsu gate, Kishorpura, Sainya, Subhash Nagar, Chilli Int, Kamla Nagar, a private hospital on national highway-2, Shahdra, Azad Nagar, Kripal Colony, Sarai Jaju, Kaushalpura, Gandhi Nagar, Vibhav Nagar, Raja Ki Mandi, sector 13 of Awas Vikas, Madia Katra, Naya Bans in Fatehpur Sikri block, Chatta market, Kacheri Ghat and Gadi Pachori village in Bah block.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/agra/agra-admin-starts-door-to-door-thermal-screening-in-37-hotspots-of-dist/articleshow/75169204.cms||---
April 16, 2020||Agra||AMU considers online teaching, exams for final year students & for admissions||Agra: In the wake of the extended nationwide Covid-19 lockdown, Aligarh Muslim University (AMU) is planning to conduct online examinations, particularly for final year students. Vice-chancellor Tariq Mansoor said the university will give priority to final year students and admission tests for various programmes, whose schedule will be finalised after discussions with concerned authorities. In a letter addressed to AMU teachers, students, their parents and the AMU fraternity, professor Mansoor said the Union ministry of human resources development (MHRD), University Grants Commission (UGC) and the Government of India (GoI) has already constituted two expert committees to look into the matter. “One of these committees has been constituted for matters for ‘online teaching’ and ‘online examination’, while the other is working to chalk out an ‘academic calendar’ to deal with schedule of admissions and other issues,” said the VC. He added the report of these two expert committees are expected soon and decisions will be taken accordingly in the best interest of students, given the extraordinary circumstances. Addressing AMU teaching staff, the VC said, “For teachers, the current challenges should be translated into opportunities, to acquire new skills in virtual teaching-learning-evaluation methods.” He said in the current situation, it is imperative to go ahead with online teaching-learning in whatever mode it is feasible, and to cover as much syllabus as possible under the prevailing difficult circumstances. “While we are aware of obstacles regarding internet connectivity in a few areas, let us all try to make maximum use of online teaching-learning processes, because universities may not find it possible to conduct physical classroom lectures or practicals for some time to come. The teaching community should be ready to make small sacrifices, if required, to safeguard academic interests of our students, especially those in the final year of their programmes,” wrote professor Mansoor in the letter. He further said since the problem of this infection may remain for a significant time, and physical distancing will be an integral part of it, in such a situation, instead of merely highlighting problems which are common to everybody, we all need to rise to the occasion by working on solutions through innovations related to online teaching and examinations. He urged teaching, non-teaching staff and students to strictly follow social distancing and lockdown guidelines of the government, and to take care of personal hygiene by regularly washing hands, wearing masks at public places and disinfecting surfaces.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/agra/amu-considers-online-teaching-exams-for-final-year-students-for-admissions/articleshow/75169215.cms||---
April 16, 2020||Business||IT/ITeS won’t move more than 10% to office initially||Bengaluru: IT/ITeS companies said they may bring employees back to offices at a pace slower than what the government has permitted. The government has allowed them to operate at 50% strength from April 20. But many companies expect to start with no more than 10%. Some want to be sure there would not be any worsening of the pandemic that would force the government to reverse its orders. That could seriously disrupt their workflows.  “Good to see the MHA (ministry of home affairs) directive stating that 50% of IT sector can go back to work. Our back to work guidance to the industry would be a phased approach (15-20% workforce in Phase 1) with stringent safety measures in place,” industry body Nasscom tweeted, Keshav Murugesh, group CEO of WNS, said the company expects only very critical support and technology staff to return immediately. “We would take a phased approach to ensure minimal risk to employees and clients as well as ensuring that SOPs (standard operating procedures) are created that cover transportation, in-office distancing, critical air travel as well as crisis management. I would expect not more than 10% of our staff to return in April and we will gradually increase after May 3 based on the situation on the ground,” he said. Rajiv Ahuja, president at Startek, too said they would adopt “a split shift working schedule with WFH (work from home) and limited office occupancy to ensure the health and safety of our colleagues is not compromised”. Saurabh Govil, head of HR at Wipro, said only mission critical employees (about 10% of total strength) will be based in its campuses. These are employees who are not able to work from home, or where the company has not been able to get customer approvals to work from home. He said the company would look at bringing others back to office only after May 3. Most IT/ITeS employees are working quite effectively from home now. In many cases, it involved transfers of desktops to employees’ homes at significant cost. Companies do not want to bring them back to offices without greater certainty about the environment.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/it/ites-wont-move-more-than-10-to-office-initially/articleshow/75169231.cms||---
April 16, 2020||Varanasi||Two held for bid to sneak ganja, mobile into jail||Varanasi: Two men were arrested for attempting to provide 600 grams of ganja and two mobile phones to an inmate of district jail compound on Wednesday. Cantt inspector Ashwini Chaturvedi said, “After receiving tip-off about the arrival of a few miscreants, a juoint team of Cantt and Lalpur-Pandeypur police stations and crime branch cordoned off the area behind the district jail compound on Wednesday morning. As two men on a motorcycle reached close to the boundary wall of the jail and attempted to throw a bag inside its premises, the police caught hold of them. 600 grams of ganja and two mobile phones were recovered from the bag. The arrested men were identified as Govind Shukla and Mohd Shahid of Badagaon area. During initial interrogation, they confessed that they had come to provide the ganja and mobile phones to one Abhishek Mishra, who is accused of killing a student leader Vivek of Azamgarh in 2019, and is lodged in the district jail.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/varanasi/two-held-for-bid-to-sneak-ganja-mobile-into-jail/articleshow/75168000.cms||---
April 16, 2020||Madurai||Social distancing goes for a toss at Rameswaram||Madurai: Throwing caution to the wind, several people gathered in front of a PDS shop at Rameswaram on Wednesday to collect the Covid-19 relief materials announced by the government without following social distancing. Following the lockdown, the state government had announced that essential commodities and Rs 1,000 would be distributed to the people through PDS shops. Though officials are taking steps to ensure people keep distance while purchasing the commodities, many people gathered in front of the PDS shop at Pallivasal Street. They were not only standing very close to each other to get the relief materials, but many of them did not have masks too. Ramanathapuram district collector K Veera Raghava Rao told TOI that instructions had been given to all PDS shops in the district to issue tokens by specifying the date and time for collecting relief materials. They were also told to ensure that people follow social distancing while collecting the relief materials. However, despite giving tokens by specifying the timing, people gathered in front of the PDS shop at Rameswaram. He said when the matter was brought to the notice of the tahsildar, immediate steps were taken to regulate the people.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/social-distancing-goes-for-a-toss-at-rameswaram/articleshow/75170075.cms||---
April 16, 2020||Surat||Surat: 20,000 hands roll ‘roti’ to feed poor||SURAT: For Geeta Vaniawala, a housewife in Jehangirpura, cooking five extra rotis has become the routine from the day lockdown was imposed on March 24. She waits for the doorbell to ring in the morning and hands over the rotis to a volunteer from the housing society. These rotis donated by her satiate the hunger of poor hit by the lockdown Just like Geeta, there are nearly 20,000 women from the housing societies, bungalows and apartments from Vesu, Pal, Adajan, Athwalines etc. who have joined the 'roti campaign' initiated by city-based NGO, Surat Manav Seva Sangh ‘Chhanyado’ to feed the hungry in the city. These women, who are unable to move out of their houses during the lockdown, are indirectly feeding thousands of needy every day. According to Chhanydo NGO, at least 1,000 housing societies and row houses have joined in the campaign and nearly 1.15 lakh rotis are collected from the households daily. Chhanydo is running a community kitchen at Amidhara Wadi in Adajan, where about 16 women exclusively cook sabji and chilly pickle and that the rotis collected from the households are packed in the food packet and distributed to some 35,000 people across the city. “The most tedious job is to cook rotis and we do not have enough staff to prepare in the required quantity. So, I posted a video appealing to the women to donate five rotis each. The video went viral on social media platforms and we started receiving overwhelming response from all the housing societies,” says Bharat Shah, president of Chhanyado NGO. Shah added, “Every day our volunteers from different areas bring 1.15 lakh rotis at our community kitchen. We prepare the food packets each consisting five rotis, sabji and chilli pickle. Majority of the packets are distributed among the migrant population in the industrial areas including Varachhha, Pandesara, Udhna. Also, we are sending the food packets in the villages of Olpaad.” Rakesh Sethna, a volunteer from Vaishnaodevi Sky apartment in Jehangirpura said, “From our society alone, we are donating more than 6,000 rotis and we will continue to do so till May 3.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/20000-hands-roll-roti-to-feed-poor/articleshow/75167731.cms||---
April 16, 2020||Delhi||Delhi: All courts extend closure, more cases to be heard online||NEW DELHI: A day after PM Narendra Modi extended the nationwide lockdown to fight the Covid-19 pandemic, Delhi high court followed suit. Functioning of the high court and subordinate courts will remain suspended till May 3, except hearing of urgent matters. The court’s administrative panel also directed ramping up of videoconferencing facilities to hear more cases. One of the measures in this regard is that the number of benches hearing matters through videoconferencing would be further increased. Till Wednesday, one division bench and two or three single judge benches were hearing only urgent matters. The decisions were taken after the administrative and general supervision committee of the court, headed by Chief Justice D N Patel met and took a call. The high court further noted that in case a regular hearing is to take place within the court complex, social distancing norms have to be adhered to. In its order the committee clarified that in view of courts remaining shut till May 3, all non-urgent pending matters that were to be taken up between April 16 to May 2 are adjourned to corresponding dates between June 16 to July 2, respectively. If the lockdown is lifted, the high court and six district courts plan to work during the summer recess this year. The high court had on March 25 restricted its and district courts’ functioning till April 14. On working of the district courts, the committee said matters listed in the lower courts between April 16 to May 2 would also be adjourned “en bloc” and “information in this regard be uploaded on district court website.” However the HC committee, this time, laid down specific norms for the working of trial courts, adding that each district and sessions judges should permit judges and other staff to work from home, wherever possible. The DSJs have been told to ensure that the mechanism of mentioning of urgent matters in the district concerned is quick and efficient and judicial officers are deputed for hearing matters related to bail and urgent civil/injunction cases. “All hearings be done preferably through videoconferencing, which would automatically result in decongestion in court complexes,” the high court said, noting that videoconferencing should be done through the specially developed software for the courts, “Cisco WebEx.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/all-courts-extend-closure-more-cases-to-be-heard-online/articleshow/75170095.cms||Abhinav Garg
April 16, 2020||Agra||Jaipur girl, 13, in hospital for stomach ailment, tests Covid-19 positive at death 3 days later||AGRA: A 13-year-old girl whose family took her away from Agra’s SN Medical College in a critical condition and against the doctors’ recommendation died and tested positive for Covid-19 at another hospital in Jaipur. The girl was admitted at paediatric ward of the medical college in Agra on April 6 after complaint of intestinal perforation. Doctors there had planned a surgery to save her once “she became stable”. But, her maternal uncle took her away after filling Leave Against Medical Advice (LAMA) form. The girl had come to Firozabad at her maternal grandmother’s home from Jaipur. When she fell ill, she was rushed to the Agra hospital. But, the family members wanted her to be treated in Jaipur, where her father, a labourer, worked and lived with the rest of the kin. So they took her to Jaipur’s JK Lone hospital where she died on April 11. The next day, on Sunday, her tests revealed that she had contracted the novel coronavirus. Head of paediatric department of Agra Medical College, Dr R Dayal, told TOI, “She was admitted in the ward in a critical condition and doctors recommended surgery only after stabilising her as an immediate intervention could have been life threatening for her.” “But, the patient’s relative wanted to take her to Jaipur for surgery despite doctors’ advice against it,” the doctor added. He said, “They gave us in writing that they are taking her on their own will.” The girl had no travel history or known contact with any Covid-19 patient when she was admitted to the ward, suggesting that she may have contracted the virus after the admission or during the travel to Jaipur. Her father and other family members are quarantined now. She was tested for Covid-19 in Jaipur prior to her surgery. “But she passed away on April 11 morning,” said the deceased’s father on phone. The man said he could not even bury his daughter, as health workers did not allow him to touch her. He told TOI that their first test for Covid-19 was found negative and he wants to be with his three minor children, who are alone at his house. “I have three more children, including two sons and a daughter, who is 8-year-old. They all are alone,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/agra/jaipur-girl-13-in-hospital-for-stomach-ailment-tests-covid-at-death-3-days-later/articleshow/75169225.cms||Anuja Jaiswal
April 16, 2020||Madurai||49 Covid-19 patients discharged after recovery in southern dists||Madurai: It was literally a positive day for the southern region, as 49 Covid-19 patients were discharged from various hospitals in the districts on Wednesday, meanwhile reporting just three cases one each in Theni, Tirunelveli and Tenkasi. With this, the number of Covid-19 cases in the southern districts has climbed to 290.In Madurai, seven people who tested positive and has been undergoing treatment at the isolation ward at Government Rajaji Hospital were discharged on Wednesday. All the seven had attended the Tablighi meet in New Delhi, and were from Melur and Ezhumalai in Madurai district. They tested negative in two consecutive tests as per protocol, according to hospital sources. They were admitted to the hospital on March 29 and tested positive the next day.Six patients who were under treatment at the Sivaganga Government Medical College, including two people from Ramanathapuram, were discharged after testing negative in two consecutive tests on Wednesday. Sivaganga district collector J Jayakanthan gave them a send-off as they were adorned with shawls and the hospital staff clapped when they walked out.Among the six patients, three were from Tirupathur and one from Devakottai in Sivaganga district. The other two patients were from Ramanathapuram. Sivaganga district has reported 11 Covid-19 positive cases and Ramanathapuram seven. Two people from Kayalpattinam in Tuticorin district who were undergoing treatment at Tuticorin Medical College Hospital were discharged. They include the government doctor from Kayalpattinam and another man from the same area. Tuticorin district collector Sandeep Nanduri gave them fruit baskets as a goodwill gesture on their discharge. The collector said that those who were discharged had participated in the Tablighi Jamaat conference in New Delhi and was admitted to the hospital on March 30 with symptoms and tested positive on March 31. The tests for Covid-19 were conducted twice as per protocol and the tests results were negative. All those discharged have been asked to be in home quarantine for two weeks. Meanwhile, 13 people, who had tested positive for Covid-19 after attending the TJ congregation, were also discharged early in the morning on Wednesday in Tirunelveli. They were brought to their homes in an ambulance, and they have been asked to remain quarantined for two weeks. In Dindigul, where 65 people have tested positive for the disease, saw 21 people being discharged from the isolation ward at the Karur Medical College Hospital. Dindigul district collector M Vijayalakshmi said that they had been asked to remain in home quarantine for two more weeks.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/49-covid-19-patients-discharged-after-recovery-in-southern-dists/articleshow/75170086.cms||---
April 16, 2020||Kolhapur||Proposal for Covid-19 testing lab in Kolhapur sent to ICMR||KOLHAPUR: A proposal has been sent by Rajarshi Chhatrapati Shahu Maharaj Government Medical College and Chhatrapati Pramila Raje Rugnalaya (CPR) to the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) for setting up a Covid-19 testing laboratory at the civil hospital. Minakshi Gajbhiye, dean of the hospital, said setting up the laboratory will cost around 1.22 crore and it will include all the latest lab equipment and renovation of an existing room in the medical college. "We are awaiting response from the ICMR that is likely to come in the next couple of days. Considering the current requirement of the district and the time taken at the existing laboratory in Miraj, having a lab in Kolhapur will save precious time and help in making quick decisions," Gajbhiye said. Being asked about the low sample carrying capacity of the Miraj lab, Sangli district collector Abhijeet Chaudhary said the current lab has manual RNA extractor which takes time in testing. "Hence, the number of samples taken in a batch gets restricted. We have ordered an auto-extractor which will save a lot of time. Due to the technical issues, it is yet to reach us. Once it does, the lab will function full-fledged," he said. Chaudhary added that they have also joined hands with private companies that have provided few equipment. "Once the auto-extractor and other equipment are installed, the sample carrying capacity will increase to 150 samples per batch." he said. "Once the lab starts functioning to its full capacity, it will provide speedy results and eventually rapid implementation of safety and security measures against Covid-19 across the Sangli, Kolhapur, Ratnagiri, and Sindhudurg districts could take place," he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolhapur/proposal-for-covid-19-testing-lab-in-kolhapur-sent-to-icmr/articleshow/75169250.cms||Piyush Bhusari
April 16, 2020||Delhi||Easing of curbs won’t change much in Delhi||NEW DELHI: The lockdown relaxation measures from April 20 as announced by ministry of home affairs are expected to ease the burden on a section of people, but they have negligible significance for industries as the capital doesn’t have any major manufacturing and industrial hubs. Also, the relaxations given for agricultural and related activities, fisheries, plantations and animal husbandry are of hardly any importance because these activities are present on a minimal scale. Moreover, with the MHA order specifying that there will be a strict ban on sale of liquor, Delhi government will not be opening liquor shops till the period of lockdown. A couple of days ago, the AAP government was exploring the possibility of opening liquor shops and had sought a report on it. As part of the relaxations, people will be allowed to call care providers at home, anganwadis will become operational, all goods traffic will be allowed to ply, electricians, plumbers and IT repair personnel will be allowed to work, e-commerce companies and vehicles used by them will be allowed to ply and courier services can start. Construction projects will be allowed where no workers are required to be brought from outside. In all workplaces, wearing of face mask will be mandatory. All offices will have to maintain social distancing and no gathering of five or more people will be allowed. Arrangements will also have to be made for temperature screening and providing hand sanitizers. Staggered lunch breaks and a gap of one hour between shifts will also have to be ensured. All organisations will be required to sanitise the workplaces between shifts. All trucks and goods vehicles with two drivers and one helper will be allowed movement. Truck repair shops and dhabas along highways will also be allowed to function. However, the relaxations won’t be applicable for containment zones. While no public transport will be allowed, all essential services will continue. All educational, training and coaching institutions will remain closed. The district authorities have been asked to encourage home delivery to minimise the movement of individuals outside their homes. All factories and establishments will have to arrange special transportation facility and the vehicles will only be allowed to run at 30-40% passenger capacity. All departments of Delhi government will work with a restricted number of staff. Group A and B officials can attend office as required, but only 33% of the strength of group C and levels below can come to work so that social distancing is maintained. Lieutenant governor Anil Baijal reviewed the enforcement of the lockdown with senior officers and directed them to ensure compliance of all directions of the central government to break the chain of transmission of Covid-19.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/easing-of-curbs-wont-change-much-in-city/articleshow/75170082.cms||AlokKNMishra
April 16, 2020||Agra||Two more from Agra’s pvt hosp test positive for Covid-19 in Manipuri||Agra: Two men, including a health worker of a private hospital in Agra which was sealed on April 6, tested positive for Covid-19 in Mainpuri on Wednesday taking the tally in the district to 5. Confirming this, Mainpuri DM Mahendra Bahadur Singh, said the duo, aged 63 and 26, had returned from the hospital which was declared a major hotspot.Earlier, Agra administration had provided a list of persons who had visited the hospital between March 22 and April 6 to Mainpuri administration, to get them tested for the infection. He said the hospital was sealed on April 6 after a woman, who was admitted earlier and later referred to a private hospital in Mathura, tested positive for the virus.Earlier, three members of Tablighi Jamaat were found positive for Covid-19. All of them were immediately shifted to the 30-bed isolation ward of the community health centre (CHC) in Bhogaon. They are aged 17, 18and 69 years.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/agra/two-more-from-agras-pvt-hosp-test-positive-for-covid-19-in-manipuri/articleshow/75169261.cms||---
April 16, 2020||Hyderabad||As country extends lockdown, crisis deepens for migrants in Hyderabad||HYDERABAD: As many as 25 migrant workers from Uttar Pradesh have been stuck in the city without work ever since the sudden imposition of the lockdown. The workers, who work in the construction sector, said they have neither received the 12 kg free rice nor Rs 500 cash that was announced by the state government. To make matters worse, they have run out of savings and the thought of staying away from their families for a long time has plunged many of them into depression. Many of the migrants TOI spoke to said they want to return home and join their families, adding that they had booked train tickets hoping to return home after the lockdown is lifted on April 14. “We cannot go back as the train services are also shut. The lockdown has been extended up to May 3. Our families in UP are worried about us and want us to return. I request the government to arrange some transport facility for us and help us return home,” said Nand Lal, the eldest in the 25-member group. Food is the foremost concern and the workers are staying in small rented rooms at Tata Chari Colony in Begumpet, with five persons packed into one room and sharing the rent. Expressing helplessness and anger, they said that their families are availing ration supplies back home in UP, even though they all have valid ration cards here. Meanwhile, a group of youngsters, MA Raheem, M Satish and Chandrasekhar among others are distributing packets of food to the migrants with the help of donations and their own contributions.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/as-country-extends-lockdown-crisis-deepens-for-migrants/articleshow/75170102.cms||Roushan Ali
April 16, 2020||Hyderabad||Telangana HC seeks details on status of needy||HYDERABAD: Expressing concern over the status of poor women, old people, children, and the stranded migrant labourers, the Telangana high court on Wednesday sought to know from the state within five days whether it was able to reach the lakhs of unreached poor with rice, money and other essentials. The bench of chief justice Raghavendra Singh Chauhan and justice T Amarnath Goud was hearing a batch of PILs filed by advocate Vasudha Nagaraj and few others seeking medical and other facilities to stranded people. The state’s chief secretary filed a common report in all the PILs and attempted to convey the humanitarian effort undertaken by the state government. But the bench noticed that the state’s resolve and effort were not properly reflected in the affidavit of the CS and termed it as vague. The bench told advocate general BS Prasad to ensure director Dr. K Shankar of Institute of Preventive Medicine is present on April 20, the next date of hearing. The chief justice went through the report filed by the CS and said, “The state says, out of 87.59 lakh food security cardholders, 50 lakh are supplied with free rice and other food items. This leaves us with a question. What about the remaining 37 lakh persons… how will they survive during the remaining lockdown period? The Annapurna Canteens are distributing food at Rs 5/- per meal under the GHMC jurisdiction. When the entire country is under lockdown, how do you expect a poor person to possess five rupees per each meal?”  Agreeing with the apprehensions raised by Vasudha, the bench sought to know the details of thermal screening facilities set up at shelter centres by April 20. AG Prasad assured the court that they have sufficient testing kits and have placed orders for more. Chief justice Chauhan directed the AG to get a comprehensive report on number of rapid tests conducted on people in 266 red zones and containment areas.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/hc-seeks-details-on-status-of-needy/articleshow/75170162.cms||---
April 16, 2020||Delhi||Man on ventilator given plasma therapy in Delhi, doctors say responding||NEW DELHI: A man in his 50s who developed severe symptoms after being diagnosed positive for Covid-19 was recently administered the convalescent plasma therapy at a top private hospital in Delhi. This may perhaps be the first case of clinical use of this therapy, touted as one of the treatment options for Covid-19, in the country. Dr Sandeep Budhiraja, clinical director of Max Healthcare, told TOI the patient has shown significant improvement in need for mechanical ventilation after the plasma therapy. “Before the therapy was administered, this patient was requiring full ventilator support. But now the need has been reduced to half and we are hoping to wean him off the machine in one to two days,” Dr Budhiraja said. On Wednesday, this patient had lost his father to Covid-19, sources said. Covid-19 is known to damage lung function in severe cases. A patient is not able to breathe on his or her own necessitating ventilator support. Despite this, if the patient’s lung function deteriorates further, it has a cascading effect on the functioning of other organs and sometimes it leads to death. The patient, a Delhi resident, was in a similar condition. The doctors said his family members requested them to do anything to save him, including experimental use of the plasma therapy. “Plasma therapy isn’t new. It has been used earlier also for diseases such as Severe Acute Respiratory Syndrome (SARS). However, its application for Covid-19 is new. Worldwide, some hospitals have tried it on experimental basis with some success. In India also, regulatory bodies like the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) and the Drug Controller General of India (DCGI) are initiating clinical trials. We are part of that,” Dr Budhiraja said. He added that this patient, however, couldn’t have waited that long given his condition and, therefore, the therapy was administered on compassionate grounds. “The family themselves got in touch with a Covid-19 patient who had recovered fully from the disease for voluntary donation of plasma. The donor agreed and, thereafter, we took full consent from the patient’s family before going ahead with the process,” Dr Budhiraja said. He added that a Covid-19 patient is considered a donor for plasma therapy, two weeks after being declared as ‘negative’ for the infection because it is believed that by this time his or her antibodies are sufficient. Dr S K Sarin, director of Institute of Liver and Biliary Sciences (ILBS), said that the Delhi government has got approval to use convalescent plasma technique on trial basis to save the life of serious patients of Covid-19. “Delhi government will be deploying it as per the protocol of the Union health ministry,” a released issued by the lieutenant governor’s office stated on Wednesday. Other states like Maharashtra, Kerala and Gujarat among others are also joining clinical trials to assess the effectiveness of plasma therapy for Covid-19, a disease for which there is no vaccine or any other known cure as yet. The convalescent plasma therapy was used on experimental basis even during the devastating 1918 flu, as well as to treat measles in the 1930s. More recently, plasma therapy has been used to treat victims of Ebola, SARS and H1N1 influenza. This year, an early review of five critically ill Covid-19 patients in China found that they appeared to improve after receiving convalescent plasma. The US FDA, however, states that although promising, convalescent plasma has not yet been shown to be safe and effective as a treatment for Covid-19. “Therefore, it is important to study the safety and efficacy of Covid-19 convalescent plasma in clinical trials,” the FDA said in a recent statement.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/man-on-ventilator-given-plasma-therapy-doctors-say-responding/articleshow/75170099.cms||Durgesh Nandan Jha
April 16, 2020||Amaravati||Barring four districts, Covid-19 numbers under check in other areas of Andhra Pradesh||AMARAVATI: Notwithstanding the rising number of positive coronavirus cases in the state, the government is confident that it would be able to contain its spread soon. The medical and health department says that the current numbers are within the anticipated bracket and hopes that they will be able to flatten the curve once they begin conducting more antibody tests in the next few days. As per an analysis, conducted by the medical and health department, of all the samples collected since the operation against Covid-19 began about three weeks ago, shows that the number of positive cases were relatively higher only in four districts while it is well under control in a majority of the other districts. While Guntur tops the list with the highest number of cases, Kurnool has the highest percentage of positive cases. According to official data (till Tuesday), Kurnool reported 91 positive cases, which is nearly 11% of the 826 samples tested in the district. Guntur, which crossed the century mark with nearly 114 positive cases, stands in the second place with 8% of the total number of the samples screened. While the state average for positive cases stands at around 4.5%, Kadapa and Prakasam are the two other districts, which have surpassed the state average with 7.2% and 6.1%, respectively. In Krishna district it is 5.6% and in Nellore it is 5.2%. While, in Ananthapuram, Chittoor and Visakhapatnam only around 2% of the total samples screened so far tested positive, it is around 3.4% in West Godavari district. Interestingly, East Godavari district, which was one of the first districts to report positive cases, seems to have managed the situation well as its average positive cases is 1.3%. East Godavari has also screened the highest number of suspected cases in the state. It has tested nearly 1,279 people of which 17 tested positive. The state, which has already screened over 11,000 people for Covid-19, is gearing up to test another 32,000 people in the coming week.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/amaravati/barring-four-dists-covid-numbers-under-check-in-other-areas-of-state/articleshow/75167758.cms||Samdani MN
April 16, 2020||Madurai||Abandoned people being reunited with kin||Madurai: The district administration has started reuniting abandoned people with their family members. The abandoned, who were found on the roadsides, were lodged in two temporary shelters of the Madurai Corporation in the wake of curfew restriction. Since many families did not readily come forward, counselling was provided to encourage them. Officials said that a team led by district collector T G Vinay visited the shelters on Wednesday. The collector instructed the officials to carry out medical screening before reuniting them with their respective family members.  While the rescued people are taken care of volunteers from Idhayam Trust and corporation officials, the Red Cross, Madurai.is helping in the reuniting efforts. There are more than 400 people in the temporary shelters at Poonga Murugan Temple hall and Kaakaipadniyar School in Talllakulam. Apart from new dress, food, medicine and medical checks are provided to them. Officials said that more than 50 people were sent back to their houses on Tuesday and Wednesday. Secretary of Red Cross, Madurai, M Gopalakrishnan said they are using their vehicles to drop the people as per directions from the collector. However, their volunteers are facing various issues while dropping them as many families are not in a state to accept them. He said that at least 160 people from various parts of the state have expressed their desire to go back to their families. They will be sent in small batches in the coming days. G R Sivakumar of Idhayam Trust said many of the those accommodated in temporary shelters could not take care of themselves due to illness and ageing. They are planning to shift them to a government school near Tallakulam Perumal temple.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/abandoned-people-being-reunited-with-kin/articleshow/75170089.cms||---
April 16, 2020||Varanasi||One more tests positive for corona in Jaunpur||Varanasi: One more youth has been tested Covid-19 positive in Jaunpur district.  The 32-year-old, youth who belonged to ‘Nai Jamaat’ of Delhi, was caught hiding in mosques and other places of the district during the drive launched to detect people associated with the Tablighi Jamaat (TJ). With confirmation of the infection in this youth, the number of Covid-19 positive cases reached five in Jaunpur district. Talking to TOI on Wednesday, divisional commissioner, Deepak Agrawal, said that the sample of the youth, who had been quarantined at ITI College Siddiqpur in Jaunpur district, was confirmed Covid-19 positive by BHU laboratory on Tuesday. “After investigating his travel history, it came to light that the youth, after attending congregation of Nai Jamaat in Delhi, went to Varanasi with a group of 15 on February 29 and from there he travelled first to Jaunpur and then to Maharajganj with his group. He again came back to Jaunpur and camped at different places”, Agarwal said. The commissioner said that during the drive launched to search TJ event attendees, the youth was caught and kept in a quarantine centre in Siddiqpur. Before allowing him to leave, his sample was collected and sent for laboratory test which confirmed him Covid-19 positive, he added. The district officials said the first infected person was found in Jaunpur district on March 23 while on April 2, two TJ attendees, including one from Bangladesh and the other from Ranchi in Jharkhand, were caught from Lal Darwaza mosque who tested positive. A youth of Devgaon village in Badlapur, who had returned from Deoband, was tested Covid-19 positive in the district on April 8, they said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/varanasi/one-more-tests-positive-for-corona-in-jaunpur/articleshow/75168036.cms||---
April 16, 2020||Madurai||Flower market reopens after 20 days, but sees few buyers||Madurai: Madurai’s famous flower market, one of the biggest in south Tamil Nadu, resumed its business after a gap of about 20 days on Wednesday. Sales were dull amidst the lockdown on the first day. The flower market was closed for the first time in about 50 years as part of the nationwide lockdown. As April-June is the first peak season for many flowers including jasmine, tonnes of flowers went to waste after the closure of the market. In a respite to the farmers, Madurai district collector Dr T G Vinay arranged for 10 tonnes of jasmines from the farms around Madurai to be transported to the scent factories in Dindigul and Coimbatore. On Tuesday, the district administration announced that the flower market can function in the Race Course grounds, EVR Corporation Girls Higher Secondary School premises and Arapalayam bus stand from Wednesday. However, only the Race Course market saw some trading. People did not seem to be aware that there was a market in Arapalayam, and the EVR school fell within a containment zone in the city. Veerasamy of Pothumbu in the outskirts of Madurai, was a desperate farmer who rushed to take up the opportunity. “I have grown cockscomb, and marigolds in my 35 acre farm. But I have been unable to get a transport pass from the collectorate to bring the flowers to the market,” he said. About 10 farmers who had come to the collectorate alleged that the police did not allow them to transport the flowers to the market. Supply of flowers like Jasmines, pitchi, chrysanthemums, marigolds and cockscomb among others was low. All of them came only in quantities less than 500 kg, on Wednesday. Sources at the Mattuthavani flower market association, said that they would continue to incur loss even if the market resumes its business because people would be more concerned about buying essential commodities within the stipulated time. Jasmine was sold for about Rs 150 a kilogram on Wednesday. “Temples are closed, there are no festivals or ceremonies, so the need to buy flowers is less during this lockdown period, and we will have to give away the flowers to anybody who comes to buy them,” said Ramalinam, a trader, who was among the handful of traders who were present at the market on Wednesday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/flower-market-reopens-after-20-days-but-sees-few-buyers/articleshow/75170121.cms||---
April 16, 2020||Varanasi||Miscreants attack, loot SI||Varanasi: Some miscreants brutally thrashed police sub-inspector Alok Singh and looted his cash and other belongings near Seer gate under the limits of Lanka police station on Tuesday night. Inspector Lanka Bharat Bhushan said that the injured SI is admitted to Trauma Centre of BHU while a named FIR against one Mantu Yadav and his two accomplices was lodged under section 307 and 394. Several persons had been taken under custody for interrogation in this connection while the main accused are absconding. Singh is deployed for Kashi Vishwanath-Gyanvapi security duty. After the end of his duty hours on Tuesday night he was returning home on his motorcycle. When he was passing through Seer gate area the miscreants attacked him. After injuring him the miscreants looted cash and other belongings of the SI.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/varanasi/miscreants-attack-loot-si/articleshow/75168057.cms||---
April 16, 2020||Delhi||DU admissions may go entirely online this year||NEW DELHI: The admission process at Delhi University is likely to go fully online this year. Students may be asked to upload their documents on the website which will be verified later in July when the session starts. The admission department has suggested reducing the cutoffs too. However, a final decision is yet to be taken. Shobha Bagai, the admission department head, said there are proposals to conduct the entire admission process online. “Earlier, students had to go to colleges and get their original documents verified. But since we are in this situation, we’ll ask them to upload their documents on the website.” Another member of the department said the idea is to conduct the verification a week before the classes start. On the question of internet accessibility, he added: “We will create help centres in colleges. We are looking at possibilities for outstation students.” However, executive council member, Rajesh Jha, said that “DU has a large number of colleges and courses. If students do a lot of reshuffling in the process of admission, then it will be cumbersome.” He also raised concerns about many students not having access to proper internet facilities.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/du-admissions-may-go-entirely-online-this-year/articleshow/75170130.cms||Mohammad Ibrar
April 16, 2020||Kolkata||Kolkata: Locals’ stay-indoors-stay-safe initiative during lockdown||KOLKATA: Bikash Sonkar of Parbati Ghosh Lane near Machuabazar and Atig Chatterjee of Mohun Bagan Lane may be staying around 10km far from each other, but the duo, along with hundreds of their neighbours in central and north Kolkata, became perfect role models for lakhs of people. In the past couple of days, they have thwarted the entry of outsiders in their localities to make way for “perfect lockdown”. In a city that has witnessed over 7,000 FIRs and 16,000 arrests so far for various lock down violations, this little effort of residents in two localities impressed the police, who have promised to lend a helping hand to them. "Our area is located in a densely populated place. Many people used to assemble in our lane throughout the day. So, we decided to stop their gathering and maintain social distancing for the safety of our children. We requested the local police to put up barricades and keep vigil in our area to prevent the entry of outsiders ,” said Sonkar. Since the administration took hectic measures to contain the possibility of Covid-19 outbreak in Belgachhia slum, there was a sense of helplessness the Mohun Bagan Lane residents, Chatterjee said. “But when the administration explained to us the ground reality, we decided to stand beside them. We have put up ‘No Entry’ posters for outsiders and keeping a strict vigil in the area,” he added. A hand-written notice board warns outsiders not to come there. Locals of Jorasanko near Thantania Kalibari made a WhatsApp group where locals share information about the movement of outsiders.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/dg-people-locks-down/articleshow/75169306.cms||Dwaipayan Ghosh
April 16, 2020||Bhopal||Madhya Pradesh coronavirus count shoots to 938 after highest day tally of 197||INDORE/BHOPAL: Madhya Pradesh recorded its highest ever daily Covid-19 tally on Wednesday when a whopping 197 samples test positive, 153 of them from Indore. MP’s corona count rocketed to 938, the fifth highest in the country. The day’s count was the second highest among states, behind only Maharashtra that saw a jump of 232. “We had issued a list of 117 positive patients this morning. It was updated by afternoon as we received reports of 36 more samples as positive,” CMHO Dr Praveen Jadia said. The state bulletin recorded Indore’s day’s tally as 133, but the total matched -- 544. Reports of 500 of the 1,147 samples sent to Delhi are awaited and Indore’s count could rise further, Jadia said, adding: “We have already kept most of the people, whose sample reports have come positive, in quarantine facilities.” One of the latest cases is a police station in-charge. “We have started tracing his primary contacts for screening and are taking other efforts to control spread of the disease through them,” the CMHO said. Due to lack of coordination between the health department and MGM Medical College, a complete bulletin could not be released.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/mp-corona-count-shoots-to-938-after-highest-day-tally-of-197/articleshow/75169292.cms||---
April 16, 2020||Madurai||Bakeries open, but no snacks or sweets for the moment||Madurai: A section of bakers opened their shops in the city on Wednesday after getting permission from Madurai district collector T G Vinay. Bakers sold basic items such as bread, bun, limited cake varieties and rusk. The bakers say that they will slowly ramp up production in the days to come. They will also ensure social distancing among customers and staff till the curfew is over. Although basic items were purchased by customers, who were relieved to see bakeries open after a long time, they expressed disappointment over the absence of snacks and sweets. N Chakravarthi, president of Madurai Bakers Association, said that while most of the small bakers opened on Wednesday, only a few of the reputed bakers have started operation earlier. They started selling only basic items produced using available sugar and maida. It will take a few days before they come up with a variety of items, he said. “We are also awaiting more clarity from the district administration as we are not sure whether all varieties can be produced. Even if we can do so, it will take some days as we have to get back employees and stock required essential materials,” he said. “Many customers have asked for more varieties such as snacks and sweets, but we told them that it will take some more days after explaining the situation. There were a large number of inquiries for puffs, mixture and chips items,” said a prominent baker in the city. He said that they are operating with minimum employees. They also do not want to ramp up production of snacks, which may make bakeries crowded. They do not want to create such a situation. S Vennila, a resident of South Gate, said that it was good to see bakeries open again and the first thing she did was to purchase some cakes for her kids. “We are desperate to buy some hot chips and other snack items to reactivate our taste buds. The entire family is bored of routine homemade snacks,” she said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/bakeries-open-but-no-snacks-or-sweets-for-the-moment/articleshow/75170108.cms||---
April 16, 2020||Jaipur||Govt raises sale points of crops from 483 to 2,000||Jaipur: The state agriculture department has increased the sales points of crops from 483 to 2,000, which are widely distributed across the state, to ensure proper social distancing is followed. The state has for the first time decentralised the sales points to beat the supply chain issues arising out of the lockdown like transport and manpower. “Other than food grain mandis, a total of 5,000 Gramin Sahkari Samitis and Kisan Seva Sahkari Samitis, both cooperatives, are allowed to buy from the farmers directly rather than purchasing it from the mandis. Also, a licence has been issued to over 1,000 agro-based processing units to directly purchase it from farmers,” said Om Prakash, commissioner, agriculture department. The move came after farmers’ organizations expressed concern over the non-availability of farm workers and truckers for harvesting and transporting Rabi crops to the grain markets. “I have to take my Isabgol crop to Kota from Dausa and am looking for a mini truck, but the lockdown is preventing the drivers to ferry our products,” said Shambu Lal, in a letter to the department. Most of Rabi crops, mostly wheat, is in harvesting stage, especially in Ganganagar and Sri Hanumangarh. The farmers with big land holdings are not finding enough human resource for threshing of the crops. “Most of the work nowadays is mechanised but still, we need workers for loading and unloading. The workers have gone away due to the lockdown,” said Kamlesh Singh, a farmer based in Jaipur. CM Ashok Gehlot has announced free distribution of seeds to farmers in the state for the upcoming Kharif season, on Wednesday. The free seeds will be distributed for corn and barley crops. The press statement says that five lakh farmers in the notified tribal areas will get a kit of 5kg of corn seeds while 10 lakh farmers will get a kit of 1.5kg barley seeds for free.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/govt-raises-sale-points-of-crops-from-483-to-2000/articleshow/75170135.cms||---
April 16, 2020||Hyderabad||Home is on their mind||Hyderabad: With the lockdown being extended up to May 3, migrant workers, mostly from Chhattisgarh, Jharkhänd, Bihar, Haryana and West Bengal, are approaching NGOs and volunteers requesting help to go to their home towns. Anandh Chandolu, who is part of a social service network, said: “We received a request from a group of 100 people from Jharkhand based in Miyapur to help them reach their home towns. We can understand their anxiety as most of them don’t have ration cards to receive support from the government.” “I went to a slum on Road Number 10, where migrants from West Bengal stay. They showed me train tickets to their home towns in May and asked me if they can be preponed,” Indranil Chowdary, who supplies food to migrants, told TOI. “Though they are under stress, they are willing to stay back if the lockdown norms are eased and they get back their livelihood,” he added. Ravi Kanneganti, who runs a network, said: “We have written to the Telangana government asking them to provide Rs 5,000 per head for registered construction workers.” In Telangana, there 8.5 lakh registered workers in the construction sector, while the government claims they were only 3.5 lakh migrant labour, he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/home-is-on-their-mind/articleshow/75170126.cms||Sribala Vadlapatla
April 16, 2020||Kolhapur||300 register on portal to help admin fight Covid-19 crisis||Kolhapur: Within two days of its launch, the Kolhapur Warriors portal has received 300 registrations from individuals and organisations wanting to help the administration combat the coronavirus crisis. Moreover, the ex-armymen associations have submitted a list of former servicemen who are ready to assist the administration in maintaining order and providing essentials to the needy people during the lockdown. Kolhapur Warriors has been launched by the district administration jointly with a volunteers’ group called Kolhapur Disaster Management Group (KDMG). The group consists of the technical experts, doctors, hoteliers and many individuals who contribute regularly during disasters. It was formally launched during last August’s unprecedented floods. Shantaram Surve, a KDMG member, said: “We have received over 300 applications. We have made over 400 service categories available through the portal and any person or organisation can choose the kind of the work they are interested in doing voluntarily. So far, the applications have come from the doctors, medical graduates, social workers, medical shops, ration shops, other groups working to provide relief material during disasters. Currently, since the Covid-19 spread here is relatively under control, we have fewer requirements and the existing administrative capacity is adequate. We are going to use human resources if the spread escalates. We have to be prepared to handle this crisis effectively. Some of the registered organisations have already started their work at the local level to provide ration and medical supplies to the people most hit by the lockdown.” The administration has sought help from plumbers, nurses, pharmacists, health workers, drivers, data entry operators and non-medical service providers through the portal. Surve said that to publicise the services needed, a campaign is being carried out on social media and at the ward-level by the civic staff. In his public address on Tuesday, chief minister Uddhav Thackeray had said that the state government has launched similar forum-Covid Yoddha and so far, the state has received over 22,000 applications. The scrutiny of the applications is on. The applications received through the Kolhapur Warriors portal will be exclusively utilised in the district. District army welfare officer Subhash Sasane said, “We have submitted the list of 206 ex-armymen to the district authorities and local police. At many places, especially in the villages, the former armymen are guarding the boundaries and helping the administration in relief works such as providing food to the workers and essentials to the villages.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolhapur/300-register-on-portal-to-help-admin-fight-covid-19-crisis/articleshow/75169283.cms||---
April 16, 2020||Delhi||Air quality dips further, day temperature rises in Delhi||NEW DELHI: Air quality monitoring stations across the capital saw a spike in pollution levels on Wednesday with Delhi’s overall Air Quality Index (AQI) recorded at 155 (moderate) according to Central Pollution Control Board’s daily bulletin – the highest AQI recorded during the lockdown period. The air quality could worsen and reach ‘poor’ category in the next 48 hours. Delhi also recorded its hottest day of the season so far on Wednesday, with the maximum temperature touching 40.1 degrees Celsius at Safdarjung, which is considered the base station for Delhi. The previous highest was 39.7 degrees Celsius on Tuesday. Track the pollution level in your cityA CPCB official said that the air quality was getting affected by long-range dust transport from the western parts of India and abroad, along with local dust being lifted. While additional emissions during the lockdown have remained the same, the prominent pollutant has shifted to PM10, signifying the larger and coarser dust particles to be the problem at the moment. Before this, the highest AQI recorded during the lockdown was on April 6, when the AQI touched 142 (moderate). This was a day after firecrackers were burst at 9pm on April 5, when people responded to the Prime Minister’s call to light candles and diyas to show unity against Covid-19. According to the System of Air Quality and Weather Forecasting And Research (SAFAR) – a Union body under the ministry of earth sciences, Delhi’s 24-hour average PM10 concentration was around 157 micrograms per cubic metre on Wednesday and is forecast to rise to 204 micrograms per cubic metre by Thursday. The standard for PM10 is 100 micrograms per cubic metre. The hourly concentration of the CPCB showed the average PM10 levels spiked to as high as 270.9 micrograms per cubic metre at 11 am on Wednesday. “AQI is forecasted to marginally improve by Thursday night back to moderate category. It is expected to touch the lower end of the moderate category on Friday,” said a SAFAR report on Wednesday. Dipankar Saha, former head of CPCB’s air laboratory, says dust has remained a problem in the Indo-Gangetic plains during the summer, with high background levels persisting through this time of the year.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/air-quality-dips-further-day-temperature-rises/articleshow/75170118.cms||Jasjeev Gandhiok
April 16, 2020||Aurangabad||Over 20k housed in shelter homes across Marathwada||Aurangabad: The district administrations across Marathwada are running as many as 214 shelter homes where over 20,000 migrants are being provided with food and other basic facilities. As per the data from Aurangabad divisional commissionerate, there are 43 shelter homes in Aurangabad, 50 in Jalna, 13 in Parbhani, 18 in Hingoli, 15 in Nanded, 15 in Beed, 22 in Latur and 38 in Osmanabad. Aurangabad district is housing 9,467 migrant workers while the number in Jalna is 3,066. Hingoli district is also housing 2,292 migrants followed by Osmanabad (1,599), Latur (1,289), Beed (1,192), Nanded (939) and Parbhani (613). This also includes 308 sugar mill workers. The Aurangabad district administration has acquired schools belonging to municipal corporation and zilla parishad along with government hostels for providing shelter to the migrants. All the shelter home inmates were screened by the health department before being brought to the camps. According to Saddik Khan, a native of Bahraich in Uttar Pradesh, he along with other workers from his village had started travelling to their village in a private vehicle on April 1 when they were stopped by police. “After initial inquiry, they (police) brought us to this school. We are being provided with food and the arrangement is good. But all we want is to go home. When we tell the administration, they ask us to wait until April 14,” he said, adding that even if the lockdown is lifted and the restaurant where he used to work opens again, he would still want to go home. Just like Khan, Nandu Banjara along with 14 others had started traveling back home in Madhya Pradesh’s Seoni district. They too were stopped by police and brought to the shelter camp in Jawahar Colony. “Many others took a quick decision and left for their native places before the trains were stopped. We too want to go back to our families. That is all what we want,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/over-20k-housed-in-shelter-homes-across-marathwada/articleshow/75055467.cms||Arpita Sharad
April 16, 2020||Hyderabad||Migrant workers in Secunderabad have no money to pay house rent||SECUNDERABAD: The government is providing meals and groceries to over 4,500 migrant workers in the Secunderabad Cantonment area but this is only a partial relief. The bigger problem that is worrying these workers is the house rents. With no income, the workers are in no position to pay the rent and are urging the state government to ask the owners to waive off the rent for at least five months. According to Secunderabad Cantonment Board (SCB) officials’ estimations, over 4,500 migrants from Bihar, Odisha, Uttar Pradesh, Rajasthan and from certain districts of Andhra Pradesh like Srikakulam, Vizianagaram, East and West Godavari districts, are staying in in Rasoolpura, Balamrai, Bolarum, Lal Bazar, Bowenpally and other areas. Most of the migrants are daily-wage workers. The men work at construction sites, bar & restaurants, hotels, godowns and as lift boys at private hospitals and nursing homes and the women mostly work as maids. In fact, most of these houses are in slum areas and the premises have poor sanitation facilities. Shelters in Anna Nagar, Srilanka Basthi, Indiramma Nagar, Chandrababu Naidu Nagar in Rasoolpura, are nothing but ‘pigeon boxes’. The average rent in these areas is between Rs 1,500 and Rs 3,000 per month. Most of these workers cannot afford the rent and, therefore, five or six of them stay together in one single room and share the rent. “By the grace of the Almighty, we do not have food problem. Officials are providing us with meals but the employers have not given us a single penny since the lockdown. Some of us are also having health problems but cannot buy medicines as they don’t have any money,” Chotu Kumar, a daily-wage worker Bihar, told TOI. Odisha’s Raitu Kumar, who was a bartender in an outlet at Trimulgherry, said, “I am staying in a single room along with six members, including my parents, of my family. After the lockdown was announced, my employer sacked me without even paying my salary. From where will I get the money to pay the rent.” Since the lockdown was announced, SCB officials had swung into action and started providing free meals through the GHMC-owned kiosks which were set up at five different places in the Cantonment area. Also, local ward members and social activists joined hands to provide relief materials for the workers. The SCB staff too come forward and contributed rice and essential commodities. On Wednesday, staff of Airport Authority of India (AAI) working in Begumpet Airport, distributed 150 grocery kits to the migrant workers at the Airport premises.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/migrant-workers-have-no-money-to-pay-house-rent/articleshow/75170134.cms||Sunil Mungara
April 16, 2020||Delhi||Delhi: Baby born to Covid-19 positive mother tests negative||NEW DELHI: An infant born to a Covid-19 positive mother, wife of a senior resident doctor at AIIMS who had also tested positive, has tested negative for the disease. Hospital sources said the baby’s mother is asymptomatic, but is still positive for Covid-19. “The infant is doing well,” said a senior doctor. The hospital is recording the health status of the mother and her infant for future reference, the doctor added, because this was India’s first case of child delivery from a Covid-19 patient. The baby boy was delivered on April 3 through caesarean section surgery. One day before that, the senior resident doctor working in the department of physiology at AIIMS and his nine-month-pregnant wife had tested positive for Covid-19. Recently, another woman who delivered a healthy baby at RML hospital tested positive for the disease. The doctors said the baby is doing well. According to the US Centre for Disease Control and Prevention, mother-to-child transmission of coronavirus during pregnancy is unlikely, but after birth a newborn is susceptible to person-to-person spread. “A very small number of babies have tested positive for the virus shortly after birth. However, it is unknown if these babies got the virus before or after birth,” the CDC said.The virus was not detected in amniotic fluid, breastmilk, or other maternal samples.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/baby-born-to-covid-positive-mother-tests-negative/articleshow/75170124.cms||---
April 16, 2020||Madurai||Nagercoil parcel train services extended||Madurai: Railways has extended the daily parcel special train services between Chennai Egmore – Nagercoil – Chennai Egmore till May 3.Train no. 00657 Chennai Egmore – Nagercoil daily parcel special service will leave at 5am and reach Nagercoil at 7pm the same day. Train no. 00658 Nagercoil – Chennai Egmore daily parcel special service will leave at 8am and reach Chennai Egmore at 10pm the same day. Stoppages (Arrival / Departure) of the trains are as follows:. Train no 00657: Chennai Egmore – 5am (departure); Villupuram – 7.50/8am; Vriddhachalam – 8.50/9am; Ariyalur – 9.45/9.55am; Trichy – 10.50/11am; Dindigul – 12.30pm/12.40pm; Madurai – 1.40/1.50pm; Virudhunagar – 2.40/2.50pm; Tirunelveli – 5.30/5.40pm; Nagercoil – 7pm (arrival)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/nagercoil-parcel-train-services-extended/articleshow/75170141.cms||---
April 16, 2020||Jaipur||Only 20% capacity utilisation if allowed to function: Exporters||JAIPUR: Exporters from various sectors like apparel, handicraft and gem and jewellery said even if they are allowed to start operations after April 20, they can only utilize a fraction of their capacity due to unavailability of labour, lack of raw material and enough orders. Rajasthan has around 5,000 exporters with the exports fetching foreign currency worth Rs 51,178 crore in 2018-19. But the permission to the exporters will depend on the location they operate keeping in view the number of Covid19 cases there. Saurav Gupta, a manufacturer of garments in Sitapura said the more than half of the labourers come from outside the city and many have gone back to their villages. “We have to start with reduced operations and it could be at around 20%,” said Gupta. Currently, the exporters also don’t have much orders after buyers had cancelled or postponed them because of the spread Covid19 in their countries. “We have limited orders now since many of which have been put on hold. Countries like Japan, and South Korea is accepting consignments currently. Europe and the US is in completely shutdown. We can only complete the orders bound to these countries provided we all the raw material required for the products and the techical staff. Because it is not easy to get raw materials in the current situation,” said Aseem Singla, general secretary of Garment Exporters Association of Rajasthan. Exporters in industrial areas like Bagru which has remained safe so far from the spread of the virus said that managing the logistics for transporting people, getting passes for them and following the precautions will remain another challenge but they are happy that they will start the factories again. “It will not be difficult to arrange accommodation and food on the premises of the factory. We have to arrange buses and passes for the staff to commute to the factory daily knowing well that only 25% of the capacity can be utilized for manufacturing,” said Atul Poddar, secretary of Federation of Rajasthan Handicrafts Association.” But the workers have a choice also. It’s not there are all ready to join work, as they also would like to avoid going out. “After the guidelines issues by the Centre, I spoke to many of my workers. While many are ready to join, there are also some who are reluctant. We cannot get labourers from outside now and have to manage what is available in our surroundings,” added Singla.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/only-20-capacity-utilisation-if-allowed-to-function-exporters/articleshow/75170147.cms||---
April 16, 2020||Nagpur||Malkapur mayor shoots dismal state of isolation hosp||Nagpur: The mayor of Malkapur town in Buldhana district landed up at the Covid-19 isolation hospital as a patient, and had to resort to social media to vent his ire at the mismanagement. Harish Rawal heads the municipal council in Malkapur, a town in Buldhana district. He reported at the hospital in Buldhana city after he had been in contact with a Covid-19 positive patient. Rawal, who has been in the isolation hospital for four days, released a video showing lack of essential facilities, including water in the toilets. Even as Rawal claimed his video had made an impact, district collector Suman Chandra fired back in the same manner. The collector also released a video refuting Rawal’s claims. In his four-minute video Rawal, who has covered his face with a handkerchief, goes around the corridor reaching the toilet. He goes to the wash basin and the lavatory, and shows there is no running water in the taps. Rawal appealed to the authorities to intervene and improve the conditions. Rawal also says in the video he had heard that seven persons had fled the hospital due to the poor conditions. He also alleged lack of cleanliness in the hospital. Talking to TOI over phone, Rawal alleged that besides lack of basic facilities, even the staffers were rude. “When I raised a voice the staffers asked me to keep quite or else I would be beaten up. They were taken aback when I told them that I am the mayor of Malkapur,” said Rawal. He said even the food is kept in a corner and many times inmates don’t even realize that the packets have arrived. Another video by Rawal shows food packets being left on the floor in the corridor. “Things have improved after I put up the video,” he told TOI. Meanwhile, the collector also released a video in which she does not name Rawal but says that a responsible person admitted in the hospital behaved irresponsibly by spreading wrong information. When contacted by TOI for a comment Chandra said her video was self explanatory. The video by the collector said action will be initiated against the person for spreading rumours that seven persons had fled the hospital. The records were checked and all the patients were present and were undergoing treatment. Chandra said the person raised the issue on social media merely for publicity, without even taking up the matter with the concerned authorities first. An inquiry showed that his claims were false.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/malkapur-mayor-shoots-dismal-state-of-isolation-hosp/articleshow/75170158.cms||Shishir Arya
April 16, 2020||Hubballi||Now, 1-year-old tests +ve for Covid-19 in Kalaburagi||Shreyas.HS Kalaburagi: Days after a two-year-old child tested positive for novel coronavirus in Kalaburagi, a one-year-old kid was confirmed infected in the district on Wednesday, much to the dismay of the parents. The authorities are at a loss to understand how the children contracted the infection despite not having come in contact with individuals who tested positive. The two-year-old boy who tested positive for the virus a few days ago had been brought to the Kalaburagi District Hospital with fractured leg. The boy’s father, a bookseller at the Wadi Railway Station, had been admitted to the same hospital a few days before his son with severe acute respiratory infection. His son, meanwhile, was confirmed infected on Sunday. The one-year-old kid, again with no confirmed history of contact with an infected patient, was rushed to the hospital after developing influenza-like illness. Considering that most children are, even under normal circumstances, not exposed to the external environment to the same degree as others, these two cases have left doctors in Kalaburagi understandably baffled. A source in the Kalaburagi district administration said that they had still not been able to trace the source of the kids’ infection. “The one-year-old child was brought to the hospital by an ambulance, and the personnel attending to the kid were from Yadgir, where they had been in isolation along with 18 others. We have sent their swabs for medical examination and awaiting the results,” the source said. Director of Indian Council of Medical Research-National Institute of Traditional Medicine Debprasad Chattopadhyay, a noted virologist, said that transmission to children was more likely to occur within the walls of a house. “A member of the family or a guest who may have come in contact with an infected patient could have transmitted the disease to the children,” said Dr Chattopadhyay. The detection of the infection in two children with no travel history, and with no clear record of contact with a positive patient has sparked off fears of the Covid-19 pandemic having touched the ‘Community Outbreak’ level in the country. “This had been predicted earlier too – instances of people with no discernible contact history testing positive for the infection. But I would like to point out that the two-year-old child who was confirmed with the infection Sunday may have contracted the disease at the hospital,” said Mangaluru-based physician Dr Srinivas Kakkilaya. However, Dr Maqsood Chanda of Bidar, was not as sanguine in his observations. An advisor to the Bidar district administration for handling the Covid-19 crisis, Dr Chanda fears that this had now become a community outbreak. “The parents may have stepped out to purchase essential commodities, or they may have had visitors. Such scenarios point to the likelihood of a community outbreak,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hubballi/now-1-year-old-tests-ve-for-covid-19-in-kalaburagi/articleshow/75166350.cms||---
April 16, 2020||Agra||Agra man who died of breathing problems tests +ve for Covid-19||Agra: A 57-year-old man, who died of breathing difficulties on Tuesday, was later tested positive for Covid-19, taking the toll to four. Also, the total number of Covid cases in Agra is now 149. In neighbouring Firozabad district, six more were tested positive, taking the tally to 24.The deceased man was a resident of Shastripuram. He was admitted to an isolation ward of SNMC on April 7. According to health officials, his first sample taken on April 8, was found negative. His condition later deteriorated and on April 13 another sample was taken. By the time report arrived, he had passed away and also cremated.Now, all the family members and people, including doctors who came in his contact, are being screened and their samples are collected by the health department.On Wednesday, chief medical officer Mukesh Kumar Vats said, “The man was under treatment for respiratory illness at the SNMC. Doctors tried their best, but were not able to save him. The man died due to respiratory failure. He was later confirmed with coronavirus infection.”Earlier, three women who were admitted to SNMC and a private hospital with multiple medical conditions were tested positive for Covid-19 - after their death. So far, 149, including two junior doctors and a ward boy, have been tested Covid-19 positive in Agra.In Firozabad, out of 24 corona positives, only five patients have no Jamaat link. The majority of the infected patients belong or came in contact with attendees of Jamaat in Durgapur area of Rasoolpur police limits.On Wednesday, six more samples were found of corona positive in Firozabad, taking the district tally to 24 . Dr S K Dixit, chief medical officer of Firozabad, told TOI, "On April 13, a bunch of samples were sent to Saifai PGI in which six samples were found Covid-19 positive. All the infected patients were in direct contact with attendees of Jamaat.""We have thoroughly sanitised Durgrapur area of Rasoolpur police limits from where all the infected patients hailed. Contact tracing is being done, while all the infected have been shifted to isolation facility at a Tundla-based private hospital," he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/agra/agra-man-who-died-of-breathing-problems-tests-ve-for-covid-19/articleshow/75169286.cms||---
April 16, 2020||Kolhapur||4 more test positive in Satara, active cases rise to 8||Kolhapur: Four more people, including a 10-month-old infant, have tested positive for Covid-19 in Satara on Wednesday. According to a district health official, one of the patients had contracted the infection from her close contact, while the remaining three have travel history to Mumbai, Pune, and Belagavi. "With this, the total number of cases in Satra have gone up to 11 of which eight are active cases," he said. The 10-month-old infant along with another 28-year-old positive patient has been admitted to the Krishna Medical College in Karad, while a 75-year-old woman patient has been admitted to a sub-district hospital in Karad. The fourth positive patient, a 27-year-old woman, has been admitted to the sub-district hospital in Phaltan. Satara district collector Shekhar Singh, elaborating more on the cases, said the 75-year-old woman was a close contact of the patient who was identified on April 7. The 27-year-old female patient has a travel history from Pune, while the 10-month-old infant’s family had a travel history to Mumbai. The fourth patient was the high-risk contact of the Belagavi’s positive patient who was traced and has tested positive. "Earlier until Tuesday, we had seven cases of which two passed away, while one patient was discharged after recovering. With addition of Wednesday’s four new cases, we now have eight active cases of COVID-19," he said. Solapur tracing intensified Solapur district collector Milind Shambharkar on Wednesday said that they have intensified the tracing of the close contacts of positive patients. The first patient who died of Covid-19 had as many as 148 close contacts. The throat saw samples were sent for testing. "We have received the test results of 125 suspects of which only one has tested psoitive. The nurse, who has tested positive, and her close contacts have been traced. There are as many as 22 close contacts and their swab samples have been sent for testing," he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolhapur/4-more-test-positive-in-satara-active-cases-rise-to-8/articleshow/75169303.cms||Piyush Bhusari
April 16, 2020||Vadodara||Seven from Khambhat family found infected with Covid-19||Vadodara/Anand: Seven people from the same family tested positive for coronavirus in Gujarat’s coastal town Khambhat on Wednesday, which has set alarm bells ringing in this hotspot of Anand district.Khambhat’s Aling crossroads area has already been declared a cluster containment zone in Anand district.On Wednesday, as seven individuals tested positive, the number of positive cases from this area went up to 12. Counting the new cases recorded in Khambhat, the total number of COVID-19 cases in Anand district stood at 17. “Earlier, a member of this family had tested positive. Thus, we started taking samples of those who had come in close contact of this patient. We had taken 11 samples of close contacts of which seven have come positive,” said Dr Mahendra Chhari, chief district health officer of Anand district, adding that a 35-year-old male was first to test positive in the family. With four other males and three females from the same family testing positive, the total number of COVID-19 cases from this family has touched eight. The seven, who have tested positive include a five-year-old girl, a nine-year-old boy and another 11-year-old boy. A 30-year-old female, another 31-year-old female, a 65-year-old male and another 70-year-old male from the family have also tested positive. Except the five-year-old girl, who has developed some illness, all the six others, who tested positive, are asymptomatic. All of them have been admitted at Anand’s Civil Hospital where their condition is said to be stable.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/seven-from-khambhat-family-found-infected-with-covid-19/articleshow/75166542.cms||---
April 16, 2020||Allahabad||Lockdown 2.0: Security beefed up in city, more policemen on roads||Prayagraj: The second leg of the lockdown commenced with tighter security arrangements in the city on Wednesday. Twelve persons were booked and fined in the city in the past 24 hours — between Tuesday and Wednesday — for allegedly violating guidelines during the lockdown, enforced amid the novel coronavirus (Covid-19) outbreak. SSP Satyarth Anirudh Pankaj said, “Additional police forces have been roped in to ensure that residents follow the lockdown norms strictly. Eleven persons were arrested and 10 FIRs were registered against them in different parts of the city like Mutthiganj, Sarayinayat, Daraganj, Phulpur, Mauaima and Jhunsi in the past 24 hours against those found violating the lockdown rules.” The 11 were booked under section 188 of the Indian Penal Code, which covers violation of section 144 of CrPc. Over 6,124 vehicles were checked and 967 vehicles were challaned on Wednesday. Of these, 10 vehicles were seized, the SSP added. Police intensified patrolling in Old City localities like Lukerganj, Mutthiganj, Attarsuiya, Kareli, Atala, Karelabagh, Bahadurganj, Chowk, Shahganj, Dhoomanganj and adjoining area on Wednesday. A group of 17 migrant labourers were intercepted as they were heading to Bihar from Banda district. The daily wagers were stopped near Parade Ground and were riding 11 bicycles. The labourers were quarantined at Haiza Hospital. The labourers told the police that they used to work in Banda and were stranded in the UP district during the lockdown. However, they decided to head back to their home town on Wednesday as they had run out of money and eatables. Meanwhile, additional chief medical officer Dr Rishi Sahai said that of the 280 samples sent for testing from Prayagraj between March 24 and Apil 15, 255 had tested negative for novel coronavirus. Till now, an Indonesian national who came to Prayagraj after attending the Tablighi Jamaat event in Delhi on March 12-13 is the only Covid-19 case to be reported from the district. The foreigner had come to Prayagraj on March 22. Health department officials said they were waiting for the results of the remaining 24 samples. Additional CMO Dr Rishi Sahai said, “We had sent 280 samples to Lucknow’s King George’s Medical University, MLN Medical College and other labs for testing. Of these, 255 tested negative for Covid-19.” Nine Covid-19 cases have been reported from Pratapgarh, Kaushambi and Prayagraj till now. “The nine novel coronavirus patients are undergoing treatment at Covid-19 Level One Hospital in Kotwa and their condition is improving,” the additional CMO said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/allahabad/lockdown-2-0-security-beefed-up-in-city-more-policemen-on-roads/articleshow/75168141.cms||---
April 16, 2020||Delhi||Delhi: Covid-19 patients misbehave with female doctors||NEW DELHI: A group of Tablighi Jamaat members admitted to Lok Nayak Hospital with corona infection allegedly created a ruckus and misbehaved with the female doctors on duty at the quarantine ward on Tuesday night. They, along with other patients, ganged up on the doctors and allegedly heckled them after the medical team intervened to end an argument between the Tablighi Jamaat members and the other hospital staff over serving of food. The security guards of the hospital later forced the patients into their wards and controlled the situation. Delhi Police has beefed up the security of the hospital following a written request from the resident doctors’ association. The hospital will soon give a formal complaint to police in this regard. DCP (Central) Sanjay Bhatia said that the suspects have been identified and special measures are being taken for safety of the doctors. The incident happened around 10pm in the ward number 5A where Mohammad Arif, the main suspect, and a few other patients were admitted. An initial probe revealed that an argument had broken out between Arif and some hospital staff members over serving of food. When the female doctors tried to resolve the matter, Arif and some of the other patients got into a heated argument with them. “The group of patients misbehaved with the doctors and also heckled them. The doctors had to lock themselves up in their duty room,” said a hospital staff. The patients then allegedly tried to break open the door of the quarantine ward to flee. The resident doctors, in their complaint, claimed that the security guards were informed about the ruckus, but they refused to enter the quarantine ward since they did not have PPE suits. The doctors had to lend them their own PPE suits after which the guards entered the ward and controlled the situation. On Wednesday morning, the resident doctors’ association approached the hospital management, seeking registration of an institutional FIR against the patients and transport facility for the doctors. Later, the junior doctors demanded police protection through the day.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/covid-19-patients-misbehave-with-female-doctors/articleshow/75170149.cms||---
April 16, 2020||Madurai||Temple staff, priests, seek govt relief to withstand crisis||Madurai: The Tamil Nadu Senior Temple Employees Association has sought adequate compensation for temple employees, priests and people who have leased out shops in the wake of the Covid-19 crisis. In a representation to the commissioner of Hindu religious and charitable endowments (HR and CE) department, the association has urged that as income sources of the temple were blocked due to the crisis, steps should be taken to open fixed deposit funds of temples and pay the salaries to the staff on time. President of the association, S Shaji Rao, said there are about 44,000 temples in Tamil Nadu under the HR and CE, of which about 40,000 get an annual income of less than Rs 10,000. Thanking the Tamil Nadu government for giving the Rs 1,000 relief to temple priests, he said that another instalment of funds should be given as the lockdown is continuing. Every year, the HR and CE receives 16% of the assessable income from the temples under Section 92 of the HR and CE Act. Till date, there is a surplus of Rs 300 crore under this particular collection. As the temples are closed now, the HR and CE should postpone this fund collection for the next two years, he said. Funds received in the various temples as public contributions can be taken out as per Section 36 of the Act if the trustees of the individual temples come forward to seek the same from the HR and CE. “This is a fund received from the public, and it could be used for the corona prevention activities and public cause,” he said. Financial years of temples are from June to July every year. Many shops that sell puja items outside temples take the shops on lease in the beginning of the financial year for not less than Rs 5 lakh. The lease amount for the shops is increased annually by 15%. About 50,000 families who are into temple-related business through these shops have also been affected due to the lockdown. Hence, the last year’s lease should be continued this year as well and the 15% should not be collected, he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/temple-staff-priests-seek-govt-relief-to-withstand-crisis/articleshow/75170150.cms||---
April 16, 2020||Ahmedabad||CM chairs cabinet via video meeting||Gandhinagar: Chief minister Vijay Rupani, who will stay put at home and not meet any visitors for the next week, chaired a state cabinet meeting through video conferencing on Wednesday. Among other decisions, the action plan to provide relaxations for industrial and construction activity was approved by the state cabinet. Apart from approving the masterplan for relaxations to industrial and construction activity, the cabinet also worked out a plan to ensure there is no drinking water crisis in any part of the state during the summer. The cabinet also decided to expedite purchase of agricultural products and ensure adequate supply of foodgrain in the state. Both Dy CM Nitin Patel and MoS home Pradipsinh Jadeja gave the cabinet meeting a miss. It has been learnt that both ministers have been advised home quarantine for a minimum of seven days.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/cm-chairs-cabinet-via-video-meeting/articleshow/75169462.cms||---
April 16, 2020||Varanasi||Man beaten to death by kin over dispute||PRAYAGRAJ: Two persons including a woman were murdered in the Prayagraj region in the past 24 hours. While a man was allegedly beaten to death in Prayagraj district on Tuesday night, a woman was found dead in Kaushambi district on Wednesday morning. In the first case, a man was allegedly beaten to death by his elder brother and other family members at Tikra village under the limits of Nawabganj police station late on Tuesday night. The deceased identified as Laxmikant Saroj (40), was a resident of Tikra Bijlipur. SP (Trans Ganga) NK Singh said, “The two families came to loggerheads over a petty dispute at Tikra Bijlipur village. Laxmikant’s elder brother Shrikant and his family allegedly attacked him. He was taken to a hospital, where he was declared brought dead.” Police said the brothers came face to face over a goat grazing on Mahua’s field. However, the locals intervened between the duo and settled the issue. Around 11 pm, Shrikant, his wife Kalawati, daughter Sarita and other family members allegedly attacked Laxmikant, leaving him injured. The police arrested the elder brother on Wednesday morning. In the second case, a woman identified as Vimla Devi (30) was found murdered at a field in Rupnarayanpur Goriyon village under the limits of Saini police station on Wednesday morning. The woman had left the house on Wednesday morning to attend the call of nature but did not return. The worried family members searched for her and found her in a pool of blood inside a field. Police are probing the case. No arrest has been made so far.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/varanasi/man-beaten-to-death-by-kin-over-dispute/articleshow/75168230.cms||---
April 16, 2020||Kolhapur||Cops tighten security of shelter homes to avoid Mumbai-like fiasco||Kolhapur: The district administration on Wednesday tightened the security of the shelter homes across the region, which hosts migrant workers and homeless people. The move comes after the fiasco in Mumbai, where 1,000 people gathered at Bandra station demanding transport arrangements to go back to their native places. Sangli administration, which hosts over 36,000 such migrant workers and homeless people, in over 94 shelter homes across the district is quite aware of the situation. Suhail Sharma, superintendent of police, Sangli told TOI that in these difficult times people are bound to get frustrated. “We are making sure that they get everything they could. The facilities including meals and counselling among others are provided. We are being compassionate to them, but we also want them to comply with the lockdown regulations,” he said. Sharma said they would be taking precautions to avoid Mumbai-like situations. “We have increased the patrolling and also increased our communication with them. So far, they are complying with us. Due to the sensitivity, we are showing, they too trust us. On Wednesday, there was a pregnant lady, a sugarcane crushing worker, who had to be shifted to Karad’s hospital for her delivery. We allowed a few other members from the camp to take care of her,” he said. District collector, Sangli, Abhijeet Chaudhary, said that there is nothing to worry across the shelter homes, as the basic needs have been provided. Echoing the views, Shekhar Singh, district collector, Satara, said that due to the sugar cane crushing season, there are many workers who have come from different parts of the state. “We are taking care of them. They must be around 4,000 such workers, who are in the shelter camps across the district.” According to the Kolhapur district administration data, there are around 800 people staying in the shelter homes out of which 600 are from other states, and over 180 are from Maharashtra.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolhapur/cops-tighten-security-of-shelter-homes-to-avoid-mumbai-like-fiasco/articleshow/75169324.cms||---
April 16, 2020||Jaipur||Modified lockdown in phased manner from April 21: Gehlot||JAIPUR: Chief minister Ashok Gehlot on Wednesday said modified lockdown would be implemented across the state in a phased manner from April 21. He said the state government had allowed agriculture activities like harvesting from April 15. According to the new guidelines issued by the home ministry, industrial activities in the rural areas and in dedicated industrial areas were allowed with social distancing practices in place. This would be a big relief to the migrant labourers who are stranded at different places without jobs. Gehlot gave these directions at a high-level meeting held at his official residence. He said if factory owners provide residential facilities to workers in urban areas, then work could commence from April 21. But he said restrictions on the movement of labourers will continue to be in force. The chief minister directed the officials to coordinate with various agencies so that work at the factories could be commenced without any hitch. “The district administration, RICCO, district industry centres and police have to coordinate so that factories don’t face any hiccups,” said the chief minister. He also asked officials to make arrangements for issuing passes to workers in these factories. The chief minister also gave direction to reopen government offices gradually. Currently, only essential services are functioning. The offices of other departments should start with the presence of group A and B officers, he said. Gradually, one-third of other employees should be permitted on rotation so that the administrative machinery slowly gets to full steam in due course. He said in corona hotspots where curfew was in force, nobody including government employees would be allowed for inward or outward movements. Gehlot said in rural areas, work will start with PWD and irrigation department. He said MGNREGA would also kick off from April 20. The government’s priority was to provide jobs and income opportunities to the rural population. Gehlot said the guidelines issued by the Centre had to be strictly implemented and the state had to work in coordination with the Centre to make the lockdown till May 3 announced by the central to save the life of people and restart the economy a success.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/modified-lockdown-in-phased-manner-from-april-21-gehlot/articleshow/75170155.cms||---
April 16, 2020||Nagpur||Essentials home delivered, 2 Ngp tehsils show the way||Nagpur: In yet another first in the district, residents in Saoner and Kalmeshwar tehsils are set to have their essential commodities like groceries, vegetables and also LPG cylinders delivered at the doorstep. This is being introduced as a pilot project to reduce crowding at shops, markets and also on roads to contain spread of the coronavirus. Some of the services have already kicked off from Monday helping citizens to stay at home in the backdrop of the national lockdown. Sub-divisional magistrate (SDM) Atul Mhetre of Saoner sub-division said nine shops ensured 209 home deliveries on Monday itself, which meant that many people were stopped from coming onto the roads. “In Saoner too, 12 grocery shops had sent deliveries to 48 homes,” he said. After ordering petrol pumps to deliver fuel to only those private users who have passes issued by the officials, the tehsil administration has now made this unique arrangement to ensure that citizens get maximum supplies of their daily essential commodities at the doorstep. Mhetre said we discussed the home delivery option with grocery shop associations, vegetable commission agents and LPG dealers and sought their cooperation. “The association members furnished names, contact numbers and details of their location to the chief officer of the respective municipal council, who later circulated it on different social media groups from where the citizens started placing orders. The home deliveries were effected by the shop owners with the help of two-wheeler riders for whom police permissions were arranged,” he said. Mhetre informed that 60 commission agents of Saoner were contacted for purchasing farm produce from local farmers and supply the same to 120 retail sellers, who had been earlier advised to arrange hand carts or cycle rickshaws to transport the goods. “Similarly, commission agents in Kalmeshwar too were convinced to purchase vegetables from local farmers and bring it to the towns where retailers would then take it to different localities. This would prevent crowding in the market place,” he said. The SDM said in similar fashion, distributors and dealers of LPG cylinders too were contacted and their database has been prepared. “We have asked the LPG distributors to visit the residences of their customers to take bookings and also deliver cylinders. In case there is offline booking, the distributors can later update their systems,” said Mhetre.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/essentials-home-delivered-2-ngp-tehsils-show-the-way/articleshow/75170184.cms||Soumitra Bose
April 16, 2020||Rajkot||For this couple, their sobbing child takes a backseat before duty||RAJKOT: This heart-wrenching drama revisits the early mornings of this family of three. Every day when the parents of this two-year-old girl go out to work, her sobbing entreaties asking them not to leave her alone will perhaps melt even the most hardened heart. But professional integrity keeps mother Kashmira Vadher and father Ashish Dodia get going as they know, the crucial times need their help and they cannot lax. “Every day, when we have to leave home for our duties, we have to hide from her searching eyes. We cover our ears to muffle her wails while we drive to our workplaces. We too want to like all other parents who are at home with their children, but the call of duty is a stronger pull for both of us,” reasoned Vadher, an assistant manager with Rajkot Municipal Corporation (RMC). Vadher is tasked with paying visits to the people under home quarantine and ensure their presence at their residences. She also has additional responsibilities at the Corona Control Room s. “I have to work from 8.30am to 10 pm everyday,” she said. “Our childf means the world to us. And so we want to make the world a safe place for all,” said Dodia, a junior assistant in PGVCL, who serves with the emergency control room of Rajkot rural circle of the firm. He is also involved in the distribution and delivery of essentials. In fact, RMC Udit Aggarwal said, not only this couple who are setting great examples in loyalty and integrity, but there are many more staff in the corporation, whose excellence in duties have set a glittering example in professional principles. “Vadher has also been carrying out additional tasks in the Corona Control Room with utmost seriousness. Both of them are doing a commendable job forgetting the comfort of home, their family, and trying to make the world safer for the people of Rajkot. I salute their endeavour,” Agrawal added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/sobbing-child-takes-a-backseat-before-duty/articleshow/75167845.cms||---
April 16, 2020||Mangaluru||Puzzles are the new boredom busters in global lockdown era||Jaideep.Shenoy Mangaluru: Ingenuity is the name of the game when it comes to killing time and busting boredom during the ongoing lockdown. If one has grown an aversion for Covid-19 ‘gyaan’ on “WhatsApp University” or is bored with the OTT platforms, solving puzzles — picture-based or otherwise, is the new fad. While some are outright creative, the others also give adequate scope for mirth. Entrepreneur Sumith Rao finds these puzzles the ideal stress buster. “It helps keep oneself occupied,” Sumith who regularly posts such puzzles in WhatsApp groups told TOI. The lockdown eats into one’s psyche of being forced to stay indoors, he said, adding that solving puzzles not only helps keep one’s brains sharp, but also unwittingly ensures that time flies by. Ajitha, a home-maker who has emerged as a “puzzle champion” in her family group, however, is candid in admitting that it isn’t solo effort always. When a relative complimented her for cracking a collage of Bollywood starlets of yesteryears and getting most of the answers spot on, she replied, “I can’t take full credit for this at it was a joint effort by my husband and I!” On the flip side, these puzzles frequently hop groups and so do the answers for them. Lizzy, owner of a beauty salon in Bengaluru, loves to tease her classmates by posting the puzzles in their group. Even as the answers keep trickling in, she drops the “answer bombshell”, which by her own admission is something which she had beforehand. This, in turn, triggers a round of banter within the group. What is interesting is the fact that some of them admit they took the help of their children in getting to the bottom of the puzzle. When their honesty is appreciated and a suggestion made that the child in question deserves a treat for solving some real complex ones, they are game. Given that WhatsApp helps people transcend times zones and geographical boundaries with ease, answers literally come in from across the globe, points Savitha Muralidhar, an IT professional who recently moved to Australia from Bengaluru. “While the picture-based puzzles are relatively easy, ones that involve mathematics does tend to scare people for whom numbers do not just add up,” says Savitha, a student.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mangaluru/puzzles-are-the-new-boredom-busters-in-global-lockdown-era/articleshow/75164953.cms||---
April 16, 2020||Bhopal||Wheat procurement begins, but less than 3,000 farmers turn up||Bhopal: Delay in harvesting at many places in the state appeared evident on Tuesday, day one of wheat procurement in the state. Only 2,766 farmers could turn up across 49 districts of the state and a quantity of about 4,500 metric tonne wheat could be procured. In all, 21 lakh farmers were registered for procurement of wheat this year at 4,305 centres. Except Bhopal, Indore and Ujjain, procurement started in all the districts. Though the procurement started, a large number of farmers have not been able to harvest their crops because of lockdown to check the spread of coronavirus. Non-availability of enough harvesters from Punjab and Haryana and labourers stuck in their homes because of lockdown were attributed as major reasons for the delay. Crop cutting has been delayed “considerably” in Gwalior-Chambal regions, parts of Bundelkhand and even Bhopal, farmer organizations claimed. In Gwalior district alone, where wheat is sown in about 1.27 lakh hectares of land, almost 80 per cent area is yet to be harvested, agriculture department sources said. Of the over 70 procurement centres opened so far in Gwalior, only five were functioning on Wednesday and only 216 quintals of wheat could be procured. Similar conditions prevailed at the procurement centes of Chambal division. “We tried to find out the reason why the farmers who were sent SMS have not reached, we were told that crops are yet to be harvested. Besides, farmers are still afraid of stepping out of their homes because of lockdown,” district administration sources said. We expect the number to increase in the coming days, they added. This year, the scene at the wheat procurement centres was altogether different. There was no crowd of farmers and no noise during the procurement process. Only six farmers were allowed each at over 4,000 procurement centres set up in the state. Earlier, the principal secretary (food and civil supplies) Shiv Shekhar Shukla said that text messages were sent to 21 lakh farmers with information about the date and time for them to be present at the procurement centres of their region.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/wheat-procurement-begins-but-less-than-3000-farmers-turn-up/articleshow/75167854.cms||Deshdeep Saxena
April 16, 2020||Delhi||Coronavirus test must for all admissions at Max hospitals||NEW DELHI: All patients seeking admission to Max hospitals will now have to undergo Covid-19 testing. This includes persons who do not have any disease symptoms and are seeking admission for non-Covid-19 problems, the hospital chain said. Those seeking OPD consultation will also have to undergo mandatory screening for symptoms at the entry point and use masks. But, if they do not have any symptoms, they will not be required to undergo testing, Dr Sandeep Budhiraja, clinical director of the Max Healthcare group, said. The group runs 13 hospitals across the country of which 10 are in National Capital Region, including Max Saket, Max Patparganj, Max Shalimar Bagh. The decision to test all in-patients by the Max Healthcare group comes days after there was a scare among the staff at Max Super Specialty Hospital in Saket, when it was revealed that two patients admitted to the hospital for cardiac ailment had tested positive for Covid-19. A least 39 healthcare workers, including nurses and doctors, who had come in contact with them, had to be quarantined. “It has been observed that persons who are asymptomatic and positive for Covid-19 can also transmit the virus. This puts our healthcare workers and other patients in hospital at great risk. Therefore, testing all admitted patients is important,” Dr Budhiraja added. Max Healthcare group will also do precautionary Covid-19 testing of all its 24,000 employees, said Abhay Soi, chairman, Max Healthcare and Radiant Life Care. “Covid-19 is an unprecedented global pandemic and despite being at high risk, front-line care givers are working relentlessly. A large number of infections among healthcare workers have the potential of severely crippling the healthcare systems,” he added. Soi said they have developed Covid and non-Covid hospitals so that there is minimal risk to non-Covid patients and staff. “We have seen as in Singapore that meticulous planning, testing and process safeguards can allow us to minimise infections among healthcare workers,” he added. To reduce the cost of Covid-19 testing of in-patients and staff members, the hospital chain said they will use pool testing in which five samples can be processed at one time. Healthcare workers are among the worst affected by Covid-19 crisis in Delhi. Rough estimates show more than 50 healthcare workers in the state have tested positive for the disease. On Wednesday, a post graduate student working at Lok Nayak hospital tested positive. Two doctors from RML hospital were confirmed positive on Tuesday. Delhi State Cancer Institute has recorded 30 positive cases of the viral infection.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/corona-test-must-for-all-admissions-at-max-hosps/articleshow/75170167.cms||Durgesh Nandan Jha
April 16, 2020||Hyderabad||Jail those attacking doctors & medical staff: HC to Telangana government||HYDERABAD: Making it clear that anyone who attacks a serving doctor or medical staff at this critical juncture will straightaway land in jail, Chief Justice Raghavendra Singh Chauhan of Telangana high court on Wednesday directed the state government and police to take instant action on such assaulters. The court also asked the government to give wide publicity on meting out harsh punishments to deter mischievous elements who, it said, were seemingly under the wrong impression that they could get away after attacking medical and health personnel. Sitting along with Justice T Amarnath Goud, the CJ was hearing cases on providing security to doctors caught up in treating Covid-19 patients and coronavirus suspected cases and also to medical personnel involved in surveying and testing the suspected cases. The CJ referred to a report which appeared in TOI on Wednesday about the attack on a doctor at OGH by the relatives of a patient whose test reports were awaited. “When the state government and its machinery are involved in tackling an emergency, those creating law and order problems need not be tolerated at all,” the CJ said while directing the police authorities to step up security in all hospitals dealing with Covid-19 cases Not pleased with the reply from the state counsel that police had registered an FIR, the bench said that arrests should have been made by now. “It is high time the message should be sent out loud and clear that no one can interfere in the fight against Covid-19,” it said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/jail-those-attacking-docs-medical-staff-hc-to-t-govt/articleshow/75169343.cms||---
April 16, 2020||Vijayawada||Mango traders stare at dwindling returns||VIJAYAWADA: Mango traders are witnessing one of the most bitter seasons this year due to the lockdown across the country. Krishna district which boasts to be the second largest mango crop cultivator in India now face over 60% losses. According to vendors in Nunna’s mango market, one kilogram of mangoes is being sold at Rs 12 compared this year compared to Rs 25 in 2019. Speaking to TOI, Puppala Rama Gopala Krishna, alias Ravi (25), a mango scientist from Agiripalli, says the business has been hit due to lack of public transport to other states. “We supply our produce to Bangalore, Delhi, Mumbai and various other states which stood as a major revenue. While mass cultivators can hire their own trucks to transport them, the smaller cultivators depend on public buses to transport them to other states,” Ravi told TOI. As far as the local business within the district is concerned, mangoes are sold at throwaway prices due to the limited selling time in the morning. Currently, the time stands a peak season for AP with varieties like Banginapalli, Chinna Rasalu, Pedda Rasalu, Neelalu and Jalalu already hitting the market. However, the consumers get to have a field day as they are able to purchase them for a great bargain from the desperate vendors. “By the time the lockdown is lifted, the district’s famous Nuzvid Rasalu would already be out of the markets as majority of them would end up rotting with the farmers itself,” Ravi added. The state agriculture mission did offer to extend help to mango farmers. While the marketing department are facilitating the farmers in selling the products across the state the vendors say there are barely anyone coming forward to purchase within the stipulated time. Apart from the nationwide lockdown, the farmers have already been facing other issues like substantial rise in the price of fertilisers and commissions by the middlemen.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/mango-traders-stare-at-dwindling-returns/articleshow/75167867.cms||Ujwal Bommakanti
April 16, 2020||Ajmer||On frontline to fight Covid-19, nurse meets 2-year-old son after 22 days||AJMER: Yashwanti Garwar met her two-year-old son after 22 days and that too for less than 24 hours before she left to resume her duties as a nurse. Ajmer resident 25-year-old Yashwanti was appointed as a nurse at Pali's Raas Government Hospital three months ago. She moved to Pali with her son Yuvan, but with the spread of Covid-19 cases, she made a trip back to drop Yuvan in her parents’ house. Worried about her son and longing to see him, she took special permission and went to meet him on April 12. She had a bath, changed her clothes and took Yuvan in her arms. “He was so happy to see me and did not leave my lap for a minute. He would wail on not seeing me if I left the room for some time. This made me realise how the kids of parents who are in quarantine must be suffering,” said Yashwanti. Yashwanti admitted that she got emotional while leaving for work again. “Leave a crying child behind is never easy but it must be done. I know I am only a foot soldier and my role is very limited but it is necessary,” she added. Yashwanti said most of the staff at her hospital were away from their families. “Being alone is a challenge. All of us discuss about reuniting with our families in safe environment after this pandemic ends and frequently talk about our children to keep the mood upbeat. Also, a great mood buster is the gratitude of our patients and their families. That keeps us going,” she said. Her husband Himanshu works for the railways and expects to be called on duty anytime. “We feel happy but without mother it was sometimes difficult to manage,” said Sushila Devi, Yashwanti's mother. She said her grandson cannot talk on phone but is happy to see his mother on video calls.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ajmer/on-frontline-to-fight-covid-19-nurse-meets-2-year-old-son-after-22-days/articleshow/75172287.cms||---
April 16, 2020||Allahabad||Helpline to fight hunger in times of lockdown||PRAYAGRAJ: If you know someone in the city who is stuck in the lockdown without food, there’s a helpline you can call to ensure that they do not go hungry. A local organisation, Om Namay Shiva has launched two helpline numbers — 7266920638 and 7266902603 — where people can call and get food packets delivered. The helpline team would ask for details like names, address and number of members in the caller’s family and then deliver cooked meals. The organisation sets up community kitchens at Kumbh, Ardh and Magh Melas to serve devotees. A team of 250 volunteers are working round-the-clock cooking and distributing food among those in need during the second leg of the lockdown, which was enforced to curb the spread of novel coronavirus. Divisional commissioner (Prayagra) R Ramesh Kumar also lauded the organisation’s efforts. Shantanu, one of the members of the organisation, said the community kitchen set up at Gau Ghat was catering to around 15,000 people every day. He said the volunteers were working under the supervision of district and police officials. “While cooking in the community kitchen and distributing the food packets, our volunteers are practising social distancing. They also use masks and sanitisers, and wash their hands with soap regularly,” he added. The volunteers use up cereals and vegetables weighing up to 65 quintal every day to prepares these food packets. At the organisation’s community kitchen, the team uses various machines for kneading flour and cutting vegetables.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/allahabad/helpline-to-fight-hunger-in-times-of-lockdown/articleshow/75168253.cms||---
April 16, 2020||Ahmedabad||Gujarat: District panels to decide modalities||GANDHINAGAR: Detailed guidelines from the Union ministry of home affairs (MHA) have been received by the state government for allowing industrial, commercial, service, and agriculture activities from April 20. The activities will be allowed in non-contaminated areas outside the limits of municipal corporations. The state government has decided to entrust powers to district collectors to implement the MHA’s guidelines. Manoj Das, the principal secretary to the chief minister, said: “The state government has decided to implement the MHA guidelines on giving relaxation to industries.” Das went on to say: “A detailed notification in this regard will be issued in a day or two.” A government source said, “The government has decided to entrust all powers to a district committee chaired by the collector in all districts.” The official, however, added that no commercial activity will be permitted in areas under municipal corporations or municipalities. “The majority of the GIDC estates are outside city limits and all the SEZs and industrial parks will be allowed to resume work from April 20,” the official said. “According to the MHA guidelines, close to 60% of the economic activities will resume, which will also ease labour issues,” he added. State government officials said that the Union cabinet secretary, in a video conference, asked the chief secretary to resume the activities in line with the guidelines.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/district-panels-to-decide-modalities/articleshow/75169458.cms||Kapil Dave
April 16, 2020||Jaipur||On frontline to fight Covid-19, nurse meets 2-year-old son after 22 days||AJMER: Yashwanti Garwar met her two-year-old son after 22 days and that too for less than 24 hours before she left to resume her duties as a nurse. Ajmer resident 25-year-old Yashwanti was appointed as a nurse at Pali's Raas Government Hospital three months ago. She moved to Pali with her son Yuvan, but with the spread of Covid-19 cases, she made a trip back to drop Yuvan in her parents’ house. Worried about her son and longing to see him, she took special permission and went to meet him on April 12. She had a bath, changed her clothes and took Yuvan in her arms. “He was so happy to see me and did not leave my lap for a minute. He would wail on not seeing me if I left the room for some time. This made me realise how the kids of parents who are in quarantine must be suffering,” said Yashwanti. Yashwanti admitted that she got emotional while leaving for work again. “Leave a crying child behind is never easy but it must be done. I know I am only a foot soldier and my role is very limited but it is necessary,” she added. Yashwanti said most of the staff at her hospital were away from their families. “Being alone is a challenge. All of us discuss about reuniting with our families in safe environment after this pandemic ends and frequently talk about our children to keep the mood upbeat. Also, a great mood buster is the gratitude of our patients and their families. That keeps us going,” she said. Her husband Himanshu works for the railways and expects to be called on duty anytime. “We feel happy but without mother it was sometimes difficult to manage,” said Sushila Devi, Yashwanti's mother. She said her grandson cannot talk on phone but is happy to see his mother on video calls.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/on-frontline-to-fight-covid-19-nurse-meets-2-year-old-son-after-22-days/articleshow/75170164.cms||---
April 16, 2020||Jaipur||CM should seek aid from Centre to help MSMEs pay staff||JAIPUR: After chief ministers of Himachal Pradesh and Punjab expressed that the MSMEs in their states do not have the resources to pay their employees for the lockdown period, the MSME sector in Rajasthan has also voiced similar concerns. Many of them urged the chief minister of the state to take up the matter with the Centre for finding a solution to it. Punjab and HP have already suggested that the ESCI and also MNERGA be used to provide relief to the industrial workers. Rajiv Arora, president of Federation of Rajasthan Exports, said, “The MSME sector does not have much room to leverage. Their financial condition is already very frail given the slowdown in the economy. Additionally, the lockdown has shaken their foundation. To expect us to pay the workers for the lockdown period is just not possible.” He said the relief announced earlier by the finance minister of contributing the PF money does not make any sense because the conditions limit the number of companies and the workers. As per the decision, companies employing 100 people and labour receiving salary of Rs 15,000 would be eligible for the benefit. Arora said he has already discussed the issue with the chief minister for raising it with the Centre. “We expect the chief minister to convince the central leadership to extend a relief package so that the workers get their salary for the lockdown period,” added Arora. But Rajiv Dewan, president of Garment Exporters of Rajasthan, said the central leadership does not have to be told about the condition of the MSMEs. “They know the precarious condition of the MSMEs. Why the CMs need to write to the Centre. They should not have put the burden on the already stressed sector,” added Diwan. But for the exporters, the opening of the factories would allow a small window to escape the burden partially. As some factories will open for business, they will not be obliged to pay the wage even though a small percentage of workers would be able to join the work. By invoking the Disaster Management Act, the Centre had mandated all the companies to pay their employees for the lockdown period. But Atul Poddar, a handcraft exporter, said that even if one does not pay, no legal action can be taken against the company. “It’s a moral obligation. That’s why there is no legal problem,” Poddar added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/cm-should-seek-aid-from-centre-to-help-msmes-pay-staff/articleshow/75170179.cms||Srikanta Tripathy
April 16, 2020||Madurai||Over 250 entries received by police for competitions to engage residents||Madurai: There has been good response for the recent announcement by the city police asking residents to send entries for various competitions being organized by them to engage the people during the lockdown period. More than 250 entries were received within few days of the announcement. Apart from Madurai, a few entries from other parts of the state have also been received.Police officials had said that the initiative will help to nurture people’s skills. Entries were invited to various competitions such as painting, essay writing, poems and short film making. WhatsApp number of Teppakulam sub-inspector Ramakrishnan-8940582582, who came up with the idea, was given to send entries. Ramakrishnan said that he has received more than 250 entries not only from Madurai but also for various other districts such as Cuddalore, Chennai, Coimbatore and Villupuram. Most of the entries were received for painting category, which was followed by essay and short films. They have already given away around 20 prizes by visiting participants’ houses. More prizes are to be distributed in days to come, he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/over-250-entries-received-by-police-for-competitions-to-engage-residents/articleshow/75170160.cms||---
April 16, 2020||Kolhapur||Shahuwadi: 1 more tests positive for Covid-19||Kolhapur: The 24-year old nephew of the Covid-19 patient from Shahuwadi tested positive for the infection. With this, two family members have contracted the infection from the man who had returned from Tablighi Jamaat event back in March. The total number of cases has gone up to seven in Kolhapur. Minakshi Gajbhiye, the dean of Rajarshi Chhatrapati Shahu Maharaj Government Medical College and Chhatrapati Pramila Raje Rugnalaya (CPR) told TOI that over 200 samples were pending with the Miraj lab. The lab has received 74 samples on Wednesday, of which, one tested positive for Covid-19. Gajbhiye said that the man is admitted to the isolation ward of the civil hospital and is receiving treatment. While Yogesh Sale, district health officer of Kolhapur, said that the close contacts of the Delhi-returned man were kept under home quarantine. Therefore, the 24-year-old who tested positive for Covid-19 does not have many close contacts. “We have traced seven family members of the youth on Wednesday. Apart from them, a neighbour, a policeman and a driver have been traced and kept under institutional quarantine. The man lives in Uchat village and the swabs of the said close contacts have been sent to the Miraj testing lab,” said Sale. According to Sale, they are taking all necessary precautions and citizens have been asked to comply with the strict quarantine guidelines to avoid any kind of contamination. It has to be noted that a 30-year-old man from a village in the Shahuwadi taluka of Kolhapur district who attended Tablighi Jamaat event in March tested positive for Covid-19 on April 9. He had reached Kolhapur on March 16 via train and left for Malkapur via private vehicle.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolhapur/shahuwadi-1-more-tests-positive-for-covid-19/articleshow/75169340.cms||---
April 16, 2020||Madurai||Dole: Corpn asks remaining vendors to submit docus||Madurai: A total of Rs 56.69 lakh has been distributed to 5,669 roadside vendors so far by the Madurai Corporation, and the civic body has urged the remaining registered vendors to submit required documents to get their financial assistance of Rs 1,000. The amount is being distributed to each registered vendor under the National Urban Livelihood Mission. Recently, the state government had announced the cash dole for unorganized workers registered with various boards so that they can survive the lockdown. The dole is being distributed to roadside vendors, whose livelihood is completely affected due to the lockdown.  Officials said that as many as 8,649 people have registered themselves as roadside vendors. Of these, 5,669 have submitted their proofs and received the dole, while the 2,980 are yet to submit their documents such as Aadhaar card, identity card provided by corporation and bank passbook copy. Corporation has said that they can be sent over WhatsApp on 842842500 to get the dole through bank.TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/dole-corpn-asks-remaining-vendors-to-submit-docus/articleshow/75170165.cms||---
April 16, 2020||Mumbai||Sole BEST staffer to test positive dies||MUMBAI: The only BEST employee to test positive for coronavirus died at a private hospital in Tilak Nagar late on Tuesday. The 53-year-old was a foreman with the electricity supply division and had diabetes and kidney-related ailments, said BEST’s chief medical officer Dr Anil Kumar Singhal. The man was on a ventilator. His family was tested for the virus too; their reports were negative. Dr Singhal issued a circular directing BEST staffers with diabetes, heart problems, kidney dialysis, asthma and cancer as well as pregnant women employees to not report for duty in both the power and transport divisions due to the Covid-19 threat.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/sole-best-staffer-to-test-positive-dies/articleshow/75169347.cms||Somit Sen
April 16, 2020||India||Centre offers big relief to farmers and fisheries||NEW DELHI: The Centre on Wednesday kept all agri-related activities under exempted categories for the lockdown and expanded them to include inland fisheries after allowing marine fishery operations to resume recently.  In addition, it sent an advisory to all states to utilise funds under the water resources ministry's Jal Jeevan Mission to mitigate drinking water requirements of residents in both rural and urban areas, including of those residing in shelter homes. The exemptions in agriculture, fisheries and livestock sectors were devised keeping in view the feedback the agriculture ministry received from the ground. Since the lockdown period coincides with peak harvest season, the home ministry put all related activities as well as procurement operations under the exempted categories with conditions that these should be continued while adhering to social distancing and other hygiene practices . The move on fisheries came in the backdrop of demands from the sector as lakhs of fishermen had been out of work ever since the lockdown was imposed last month. In fact, a number of marine fishermen were out in the sea for fishing when the lockdown order came. They all subsequently got stranded on arriving back at the coast because they did not have any logistics to sell their catch or even go to their villages . As for procurement, Nafed has procured 1,24,125 metric tonnes of pulses and oilseeds on minimum support price, worth over Rs 606 crore, during the lockdown. "This has benefited 91,710 farmers," said the agriculture ministry which had allowed procurement of gram and mustard under central price support schemes in 13 states. The procurement of wheat, on the other hand, was started in Punjab on Wednesday with more states promising to come on board to ensure the operations by April 20.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/centre-offers-big-relief-to-farmers-and-fisheries/articleshow/75171234.cms||Vishwa Mohan
April 16, 2020||Kanpur||More industries jump into mask biz||Kanpur: Manufacture of masks and sanitizers has geared up in the city as several small industries have jumped into the business. The directorate of industries has recently sanctioned permission to 30 manufacturing units to prepare masks and sanitizers. Given the rising demand, the units are hoping to get orders soon from other districts too. Sarvesh Shukla, joint director of industries informed that around 30 units had sought permission for production of masks and sanitizers, and E-passses were granted to them. Few more units were in the pipeline and they too would get the permission soon, he added. PIA state president Manoj Banka said, “Masks and sanitizers have been included in daily utility goods and are being manufactured since last fortnight. The manufacturing units comply the set standards. Once the transport system is restored, it will speed up the supply-demand process.” Entrepreneur and state president of Pharma Manufacturing Association, NK Gupta, said that around 100 units have produced 1500 litres of sanitizers so far. As many as ten big units are in Kanpur. Besides, a few sum all units have entered the trade too,” he added. Pankaj Puri, another entrepreneur, said he was manufacturing 70,000 standard masks per day.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kanpur/more-industries-jump-into-mask-biz/articleshow/75170154.cms||---
April 16, 2020||Ahmedabad||Ahmedabad: Two relief flights for US citizens depart from SVPI Airport||AHMEDABAD: State-owned carrier, Air India, on Wednesday operated two relief flights from Ahmedabad to Mumbai to facilitate travel for American citizens, who were stranded in Gujarat. The airline facilitated the travel of some 161 US citizens along with five infants via two flights from Sardar Vallabhbhai Patel International (SVPI) airport in Ahmedabad. Air India flight AI-1632 departed at 4.30pm from the city airport and ferried some 71 passengers and two infants. On the other hand, AI-1634 departed from the city airport at 4.45pm and transported 90 passengers and three infants. Sources confirmed that these passengers will be connected to Atlanta, USA, via a special aircraft by Delta Air, which will depart from Mumbai. These two flights are in addition to the relief flight of British Airways, BA-0117C, which also departed from the city airport around 3.30pm on Wednesday, to transport at least 240 British citizens from Ahmedabad to London.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/two-relief-flights-for-us-citizens-depart-from-svpi/articleshow/75169457.cms||Kapil Dave
April 16, 2020||Hyderabad||No trains until May 3, clarifies SCR||HYDERABAD: Putting an end to the speculations about resuming train services, South Central Railway clarified that a letter, which made scores of migrants gather at the Bandra station in Mumbai, was meant for internal communication among the oficials. “A communication related to internal planning of SCR to assess demand for train services is being misinterpreted in some sections as the decision to run special trains for migrant labour. There is no such proposal and all passenger trains stand cancelled till 03.05.2020,” tweeted SCR. According to the letter, which SCR claims was leaked, SCR chief commercial manager wrote to the divisional commercial manager informing the decision to run Jansadharan specials for migrant labourers. “No passenger trains will be run till May 3. The letter dated April 13 was meant for railway divisions to take a count of the migrant labourers, in case the railways ministry orders for special trains,” Ch Rakesh, chief public relations officer, SCR, told TOI.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/no-trains-until-may-3-clarifies-scr/articleshow/75170202.cms||Arya Sharan
April 16, 2020||Madurai||Man rescued from 40-foot-deep well in Rameswaram||RAMANATHAPURAM: A 28-year-old man who fell into a 40-foot-deep well in Rameswaram was rescued by fire and rescue services personnel on Wednesday. P Chithirai Kannan, son of Ponraj of Ithitheru in Rameswaram, suffered minor injuries after falling into the well. He was taken to the Rameswaram government hospital where he was given treatment. Fire and rescue services personnel said that the well was very close to his house and the approach to the well was very narrow. He might have fallen into the well by accident. Ponraj found his son in the well and raised an alarm. “We had just rescued a cow that had fallen into a pit at a construction site in Semmamadam village about four km from the place where the man had fallen. We got the rescue call around 7.55am. We reached the spot in four minutes. As the opening of the well was very narrow and the man was still conscious, we gave him instructions,” a member of the nine member rescue team said. A chair knot was lowered, and Kannan was asked to sit on it as per instructions. Six fire and rescue services personnel then lifted him using ropes. The man was rescued by 8.15am.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/man-rescued-from-40foot-deep-well/articleshow/75170181.cms||---
April 16, 2020||Jaipur||Landlords refuse to rent out property to heart recipient||JAIPUR: Sawai Man Singh (SMS) Hospital doctors are facing difficulties in finding an accommodation for 47-year-old heart recipient as landlords are refusing to entertain him as soon as they hear that he is admitted to the hospital. The heart recipient will be discharged from the hospital— now the main centre of Covid-19 patients in the state — on Thursday. Since the recipient is immunocompromised, the treating doctors do not want to keep him in the hospital for more days as there are chances of him getting infected. At the same time, doctors will have to keep this Alwar resident in Jaipur only for regular check-ups for which they have been searching for a locality from where no case of Covid-19 has been reported. But, the doctors are facing difficulties in finding accommodation for him as landlords refuse to rent their place to him. The doctors are apprehensive in keeping him in hospital further it has turned into a Covid-19 treatment centre and they are also reluctant to use air conditioners in the recipient’s ICU as there might be chances of getting infected air into the ICU. “We have to discharge him on Thursday, but we are finding difficulty in finding a safe place for him. The patient is immunocompromised, so he requires a place where the chances of getting infected with Covid-19 is none. We tried and contacted landlords but when they learn that the patient is coming from SMS Hospital, they refuse to give him their place,” Dr Anil Sharma, head of the department, cardiothoracic surgery, SMS Hospital, who spearheaded the transplant. “Before reaching him, one has to pass through six doors, this is the kind of protection we have given to him ,” the doctor said. So far the doctors managed to keep the patient healthy though there were several complications in heart transplant and also post-transplant care. The recipient had a valve replacement surgery in 2011. His heart was functioning just 15% of the capacity. He also had cardiomyopathy, which made it harder for his heart to pump blood. He was bed-ridden due to his ailing heart condition. On February 12, SMS Hospital had conducted its second heart transplant when he received the heart of a 17-year-old boy from Bikaner. Since then, the recipient, though had several complications, remained on recovery track due to hard work of doctors. He is still in post heart transplant ICU. “We have to assess him every third day, and want to keep him near to the hospital. However, we are in touch with landlords in Gangwal Park and Moti Doongri Road,” said Dr Sharma. The past two months were full of challenges for doctors as the patient had complained several complications. At one point of time, the patient went into disseminated intravascular coagulopathy (a condition affecting the blood’s ability to clot and stop bleeding) following which the patient lost excessive blood. The doctors had to take him to operation theatre again for preventing excessive blood loss. In two months, the doctors transfused 19 units of blood, 55 units of plasma and 14 units of single donor platelets. While on recovery mode, the patient had also suffered from diaphragmatic palsy, which is why, the patient felt difficulty in breathing. The doctors had to conduct tracheotomy, a medical procedure to create an opening in the neck in order to place a tube in the recipient’s windpipe so that the patient should breath properly without the use of ventilator support. A specific kind of paralysis known as rhabdomyolysis, which caused weakening recipient’s muscles of left leg, right hand and left side of the face. Doctors said that in rhabdomyolysis, the recipient had suffered breakdown muscle tissue that released a damaging protein into the blood. The patient also suffered mediastinitis, a kind of inflammation of chest cavity. It is a life-threatening condition. The patient also complained of hyponatremia and hypernatremia and hyperthyroidism during recovery phase due to fluctuating levels of sodium in the blood. Due to lack of protein, the patient suffered from hypoproteinemia, which is the reason of ascites (a condition in which fluid accumulates in abdomen).||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/landlords-refuse-to-rent-out-property-to-heart-recipient/articleshow/75170201.cms||Syed Intishab Ali
April 16, 2020||Hubballi||Karnataka: Constable tests positive in Bagalkot||BAGALKOT: A police constable has tested positive for Covid-19 in Bagalkot. It is assumed that he is the first to test positive for coronavirus among the frontline staff in the state. According to sources, the constable was originally posted at Jamkhandi police station and was later deputed to neighbouring Mudhol police station. He was deployed at a madarasa located at Sai Nagar in Mudhol where 25 people took part in a ‘namaz’ on March 27. The police had resorted to lathicharge to disperse the 25 persons who were also sent to isolation wards in Bagalkot later. Later, on April 7, a 33-year-old youth, who had allegedly come from Gujarat, was tested postive for Covid-19. The 39-year-old constable, identfied as P-263, was staying at police quarters in Jamkhandi and used to travel to Mudhol on a daily basis. He had been taken to isolation ward in Bagalkot by health officials on random basis. As soon as he tested positive, the district administration declared the police quarters in Jamkhandi as a containment area. It’s learnt that over 20 police officials have been quarantined and their samples collected for Covid-19 test. “Now the condition of the constable is stable. We are finding out his primary contacts,” said Bagalkot SP Lokesh Jagalasar in an audio clip.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hubballi/constable-tests-positive-in-bagalkot/articleshow/75166399.cms||---
April 16, 2020||Kanpur||Bodies of 2 women found hanging in Shatabdi Nagar area||Kanpur: Bodies of two women aged between 28 and 30 years were found hanging at a flat in Shatabdi Nagar area under Panki police station in the city on Wednesday. The police stated that the incident came to light after the locals came across a stench emanating from a flat in Shivalik Apartment building and alerted the control room. It is yet to be ascertained whether the hanging was a suicide pact or a murder. SSP/DIG Anant Deo, said, “The decomposed bodies of the women, which seemed to be ten days old, were found hanging from a window with separate ‘dupattas’. The police, along with a forensic team and dog squad, collected vital evidence including their mobile phones from the spot and are investigating the matter.” “The flat was sealed and the body was sent for autopsy. The exact cause of the death can only be ascertained after the autopsy report,” he added. Police are trying to reach the women’s family members with the help of CDR details of their mobile phones. The residents of the apartment building said that the two women had shifted to the flat on March 12 this year. The also added that they had not seen the women in the past five-six days. “Police are also yet to ascertain the identity of the flat owner as the occupants of the building only told police that the flat belonged to a BSF jawan but his name was not known to them,” said an official privy to the investigation.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kanpur/bodies-of-2-women-found-hanging-in-shatabdi-nagar-area/articleshow/75168358.cms||---
April 16, 2020||Delhi||Covid-19: Tablighi head, six others booked for culpable homicide||NEW DELHI: Tablighi Jamaat chief Maulana Saad Khandalvi and his six associates have been booked for culpable homicide under IPC 304 as the prima facie probe indicates that their action has led to deaths due to novel coronoavirus infections. Confirming the move, Delhi Police PRO Mandeep Randhawa said IPC 304 had been added to the existing FIR after taking the public prosecutor’s opinion. While the IPC sections under which Maulana Saad was earlier booked were bailable, this is a non-bailable offence, said a source. A person can be sentenced to jail for 10 years if found guilty under IPC 304. More on Covid-19Coronavirus pandemic: Complete Coverage21-day lockdown: What will stay open and what won'tHow to quarantine yourself at homeTrust the newspaper for your daily verified newsThe Crime Branch has also sent notices to 18 people who were in the organising committee of the Tablighi Jamaat. Eleven of them are in quarantine. They have been asked to reveal the names of the attendees and the reason behind continuing with the Jamaat activities at the Alai Markaz, its headquarters, despite the announcement of the lockdown. The cops had earlier sent two notices to the Tablighi chief with 26 questions. In his reply, the maulana has claimed that he doesn’t know the answer to many questions as he was not present at the Markaz due to his quarantine period. With his quarantine period about to get over, police will now record his statement and decide on whether to arrest him, a source said. Maulana Saad was last seen on March 28 and later claimed through an audio message that he was in self-isolation. He has been communicating with police through his legal counsel. His representative earlier said the cleric would appear before police if called. Police have also issued a lookout circular against the 1,890 foreigners who attended the Markaz event and are now suspected to be hiding in different parts of India. Several teams have been formed, too, to trace people who were in touch with the Markaz members.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/tablighi-head-six-others-booked-for-culpable-homicide/articleshow/75170191.cms||---
April 16, 2020||Madurai||TN fishers stranded in Karnataka, Kerala seek help to get back||Madurai: Hundreds of Tamil Nadu fishermen stranded in Karnataka and Kerala following the announcement of lockdown have sought help from the state government to get back home. As many as 205 fishermen including 199 from Rameswaram and five from Tuticorin district are stranded in Mangaluru in Karnataka. In their representation sent to the Ramanathapuram district administration, they stated that they were made to stay on the fishing boats on which they work following the lockdown announcement. They are unable to meet their basic needs such as food and water and hence urged the state government to take steps to help them get back to Tamil Nadu. Meenavar Orunginaipu Sangam general secretary Charles Johnson submitted a representation to the Kanyakumari and Kollam district administrations to ensure the safe return of 28 Kanyakumari fishermen stranded in Kerala. He said all the fishermen ventured into deep sea fishing on two boats from Beypore port in Kozhikode on March 13. Following the lockdown, the fishermen who reached Beypore were not able to travel back home by road. He said that the owner of the boats advised them to go to Colachel port in Kanyakumari by sea. When they were travelling near Kollam on April 2, the Kerala marine police took them into custody and placed them under quarantine for 14 days after preliminary checkup. Since all the fishermen are healthy after the quarantine, he urged the authorities to permit them to travel back to Colachel port via sea.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/tn-fishers-stranded-in-karnataka-kerala-seek-help-to-get-back/articleshow/75170189.cms||---
April 16, 2020||Nagpur||Man who died on Monday in Akola tests positive||Akola: Samples of a 45-year-old man, who died at the Government Medical College and Hospital (GMCH) Akola on Monday, came out positive for Covid-19 on Wednesday. This took the total number of confirmed positive cases in Akola to 14, and Vidarbha’s figure to 111. The patient was suffering from diabetes, high blood pressure and cough. He was admitted to GMCH on Monday evening in a critical condition. “His throat swabs were collected immediately for testing. But, he died during treatment at around 8.30pm on Monday,” said dean of Akola GMCH Dr Apurva Pavde The man happens to be a resident of the locality in Akola where a positive patient was found on April 7. The authorities are now examining all high-risk contacts of the deceased. As many as 14 persons have tested positive for coronavirus in Akola district, of which one Covid-19 patient committed suicide last week. Total active cases in Akola are now 12. Yavatmal at 13: Total 15 samples from Yavatmal were tested at AIIMS Nagpur lab today. Out of these 14 tested negative while one person tested positive. With this, total number of confirmed Covid-19 cases in Yavatmal reached 13. Three of them have already recovered and been discharged. The new person who has tested positive is a resident of the localities where the earlier positive patients used to live. He is one of their close contacts. This is the second such case in Yavatmal. Meanwhile, on Wednesday, 24 more swab samples were sent to Nagpur. With this, 70 reports are awaited. Two suspects die in Amravati: Two suspects of Covid-19 died during treatment at the Irwin Hospital in Amravati on Wednesday. The administration has sent throat swabs of the deceased for testing immediately, and reports are yet to arrive. “While one of the deceased is a local resident, another belongs to Gujarat,” said collector Shailesh Naval. The person from Amravati was a 60-year-old man from Baba Chowk in Hyderpura, while the 50-year-old truck driver is from Gujarat and was living in a shelter home here following the lockdown. The collector said that the wife and sons of the local deceased have been home quarantined, and the family of the Gujarat deceased is being traced from the calls on his mobile. The city has seen five Covid-19 positives from a single family to date. While one of them died on April 4, the other four are under treatment at the Covid-19 hospital. The Baba Chowk deceased was engaged in tiles business and suffering from heart disease, diabetes and blood pressure. He was admitted to the ICU of a private here on April 11 and shifted to Superspecialty Hospital around 9pm on Tuesday, after he developed breathing trouble. The truck driver from Gujarat had been admitted to district general hospital following complaint of fever.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/man-who-died-on-monday-in-akola-tests-positive/articleshow/75169370.cms||Chaitanya Deshpande
April 16, 2020||Kolhapur||Kabaddi player, 7 others held for gambling||Kolhapur: The Kasegaon police on Tuesday night arrested eight people, including a pro-kabaddi league player, for gambling in Kasegaon village of Sangli district. The police have seized valuables worth Rs 1.61 lakh from the spot. All the eight arrested were presented before the local court on Wednesday and the court released them on bail. “We received information that illegal gambling centre is being run at the house of Kashiling Adake in Kasegaon village. After confirming the details, a team of policemen raided the house and found eight people including Adake were found gambling,” said a police officer. The police seized the material including a notebook, papers, cards and other material used in gambling. “All have been booked under several sections of Maharashtra Gambling Act and illegally hoarding liquor,” he said. Adake rose to fame as one of the best Kabaddi players in the Pro Kabaddi League and also won the best raider award in the second season. He had represented U Mumba and Dabang Delhi in Pro Kabaddi League matches.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolhapur/kabaddi-player-7-others-held-for-gambling/articleshow/75169355.cms||---
April 16, 2020||Nagpur||Melghat tiger poached in MP, body parts seized||Nagpur: The Melghat Tiger Reserve (MTR) tiger T-23, which was found dead under mysterious circumstances in Khaknar range of Burhanpur forest division in Madhya Pradesh on April 11, was a case of poaching. Burhanpur divisional forest officer (DFO) Sandhya said, “We have arrested a forest guard Diwakar Sharma and seized body parts from him. Sharma has been remanded to forest custody. Role of a forest chowkidar is also under scanner and will be nabbed soon. We are also looking into others who set afire the carcass by removing body parts.” T-23 was said to be occupying Ambabarva wildlife sanctuary, which is now part of MTR. The tiger was found dead 10km away from the sanctuary in compartment number 361 of Ambajhol beat of Khaknar range. Burhanpur DFO has written to Melghat officials to know whether there was any cattle kill on their side and was it poisoned to ascertain whether it is case of revenge killing. On the contrary, MTR’s Akot division officials have a different version to tell. They said two accused — Rupchand alias Bondriya Buddha from Pangari, and Jyoti alias Gutali Barela from Dantpahadi — have been arrested. Tiger body parts including nails, teeth and canines, tail, part of vertebra etc have been seized from Buddha, they claimed. They also claimed Barela had poisoned a buffalo killed by the tiger. The carcass was first noticed by Dantpahadi locals who informed the foresters. By the time forest officials reached the spot, some locals had tried to destroy evidence by burning the carcass. Sources said a team of Madhya Pradesh Special Task Force (STF) dealing in wildlife crimes had also visited the crime spot and is investigating the poaching case. This is the 26th tiger death in the country since January 1, 2020. Of this, 50% of the tiger deaths have been reported from inside the tiger reserve while remaining 13 are from outside the reserves.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/melghat-tiger-poached-in-mp-body-parts-seized/articleshow/75170198.cms||Vijay Pinjarkar
April 16, 2020||Trichy||Even animal carcasses instil fear among some residents||Trichy: Following some reports of animals and birds getting infected with coronavirus, a section of people has grown apprehensive of animals. People, who earlier would clear the carcass of an animal, now want the authorities to do the job out of fear of contracting the viral infection from it.Finding a dead cat in their locality, people in Kajahmalai turned restless and started calling civic body workers to remove the carcass at the earliest. After a few hours, a Trichy Corporation worker came and disposed the dead cat.If it was on a usual day, residents would have dumped the dead animal in a dustbin or buried it. “But the Covid-19 scare has made such dead animals a creepy botheration for people,” said S Rajesh a resident from Crescent Nagar. “I saw the cat on Tuesday morning ailing with some skin issues and it was unable to move. It died in the evening. Since it appeared to be having some disease, I was hesitant to bury it,” he said.G Ramakrishnan from the animal welfare board of India (AWBI) said that following the Covid-19 scare, the incidents of people abandoning their pets have increased.This is after hearing unconfirmed information on pets transmitting virus infection. Besides, the civic body has no proper way to dispose dead animals. If it’s a big animal, the civic body may give earth mover to dig a pit. If it is small, no one cares, he said.Joint director of animal husbandry, Trichy, Dr S Esther Sheela said that there has not been any scientific evidence so far to prove that Covid-19 is transmitting through dogs or cats.Since it was one cat, there cannot be any issues of disease spread, Sheela said. “The cat appears to have been ailing for quite some time, which could have caused its death. Since the incident has happened at this time, people tend to develop fear,” she said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/even-animal-carcasses-instil-fear-among-some-residents/articleshow/75170207.cms||Sampath Kumar
April 16, 2020||Allahabad||Stranded pilgrims rue nixed plans, miss home||Prayagraj: When Bengaluru resident Puneet set out for Prayagraj via train on March 16 with his family of 12, he was content at heart. After all, he was able to fulfil his 70-year-old grandmother’s long-cherished dream of touring the three popular religious destinations — ‘Kashi, Gaya and Prayag’. However, it was just eight days later that their plans were marred after the announcement of the lockdown on March 24 amid the novel coronavirus (Covid-19) outbreak. Puneet and his family, who returned to Prayagraj on March 22 after touring Varanasi and Gaya, have been stuck in the city ever since. They were able to find accommodation in a math in Daraganj with the help of the district administration and local residents. The 24-year-old executive said that he had booked tickets for April 15 — when the first phase of the lockdown was supposed to end — but the second phase was announced a day before they were supposed to return. “We had earlier planned to board a flight from Bamrauli to Bengaluru. We then booked tickets for Wednesday, but we had to reschedule even those plans,” he added. “Apart from my family, there were 17 others who had come along with us on this trip. We had collectively spent over Rs 1.4 lakh on air tickets, but we never got a chance as air travel was suspended. We have rescheduled our flight, but are stuck here until then. We cannot even opt for any other form of transport, as we will end up losing money.” However, he is not alone. More than 50 pilgrims from south Indian cities like Hyderabad, Mysore and Bengaluru are currently stranded in the city and are forced to stay in two maths in Daraganj as all train and air travel services have been suspended in the wake of the lockdown. “When the trains stopped, we booked flight tickets for April 15 in the hopes of returning home once the impasse ends, but now it has been extended to May 3. There is nothing left for us to do, but wait,” said one of Puneet’s friends who had come along with him while requesting anonymity. Among the stranded pilgrims, many are elderly citizens. The district administration has provided them with the required medicines and the senior citizens have had doctors tend to them in case of a problem. At the same time, pilgrims also complained of the lack of facilities at the maths where they were made to stay.“The math’s water pump is not working since the last two days because of which we have to bathe in Ganga. We do not even have access to potable water. We have to purchase packaged water from outside,” said another member of the group. Jai Amma, one of the elderly women in the group, said that she is thankful to God that she got a chance to spend some days on the banks of a holy river like Ganga. “However, I miss my family and talking to my neighbours. I sometimes, even miss the traditional South Indian food I eat every day back home,” she added. On being asked if the group wasn’t aware about the travel restrictions which were imposed worldwide in wake of the pandemic, Puneet said that he didn’t know about the restrictions imposed in the state. “Even our travel agent didn’t warn us about the restrictions,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/allahabad/stranded-pilgrims-rue-nixed-plans-miss-home/articleshow/75168295.cms||---
April 16, 2020||Kolhapur||License of five ration shops suspended||Kolhapur: The district administration has suspended the licenses of five ration shops from the district after finding irregularities in the Public Distribution System (PDS). District supply officer Dattatraya Kavitke said that every PDS shop has been instructed to provide adequate food grains to every ration card holder depending on the number of family members in the card. “On the backdrop of coronavirus threat, every eligible person should get five kg rice and the instructions have been issued to the ration shop owners in this regard. However, we received complaints from some people that the ration shop owners were providing them less amount of rice than what they were eligible for. After confirming the details about the complaints, we suspended the licenses of five ration shop owners immediately. Out of these five shops, three are from Kolhapur city, one from Bhudargad taluka and one from Ajara taluka,” he said. Kolhapur district has provided 12,400 tonnes of rice to the ration shops to distribute among the 11 lakh beneficiaries in the district. “The people residing in that particular area have been asked to avail the facility of getting food grains from nearby ration shops. We want to ensure that no one should be prohibited from getting his own share of food grains by the government,” said Kavitke. The state government is utilising the PDS to reach out to the masses and provide them grains at subsidised rates to ensure that they get essential food items during the lockdown. “However, the authorities are taking strict actions against PDS shop owners who are involved in any type of misappropriation during this crisis period,” he said. So far, 92 percent of food grains have been distributed in the Kolhapur district in the month of April. “We appeal people to come forward and register complaints if they notice any irregularities of the food grains by the ration shop owners. We will immediately take action against them,” added Kavitke. The tehsildars from all the talukas have been asked to conduct surprise raids at the ration shops to check if they are functioning properly and distributing food grains properly.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolhapur/license-of-five-ration-shops-suspended/articleshow/75169366.cms||---
April 16, 2020||Delhi||Two red zones added in Delhi, total goes up to 57||NEW DELHI: The pace of classifying areas as Covid-19 red zones seemed to slow down on Wednesday, with only two new containment zones created in the city. The total number of containment zones in Delhi, however, rose to 57. On Tuesday, six new areas had been declared as containment zones — also known as red zones — and six areas were declared on Monday. Humanyupur Lane, Ashiana Complex and B-4/206 in Safdarjung Enclave; and G,H and I Block of Police Colony in Model Town were converted into containment zones after novel coronavirus positive cases were found in these areas. The district administrations of all these areas have invoked containment plans to check the spread of the coronavirus beyond these zones. The containment zones were completely sealed and special surveillance is under way in nearby areas to ensure extensive sanitisation exercises. The city on Wednesday reported 17 fresh Covid-19 positive cases, taking the total number to 1,578. In the last two days the city has reported far less Covid-19 positive cases in the past one week – a declining tread is visible for the past two days. All the entry and exit gates of these areas have been barricaded and police personnel deployed to keep guard and make sure that no one ventures out of the containment zones and no outsider is allowed to enter. The government has made special arrangements for essential services like vegetables, food and medicines for those staying within the zones.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/2-red-zones-added-total-goes-up-to-57/articleshow/75170211.cms||---
April 16, 2020||Chennai||Chennai lockdown: Now, connect to god at a click as pujas go online||CHENNAI: Several Hindu priests in and around the city have now switched to the virtual medium to ensure people are able to conduct ceremonies and rituals without any hassle, during the shutdown. They are now providing services through WhatsApp video call, Skype or Zoom. V V Sethuraman, a priest of KK Nagar, was supposed to go to a house to perform tharpanam, a religious offering, this week. “But they had locked the building and no outsider is allowed. We all wanted to do this puja, so I went home, made a video call on WhatsApp and started the ritual,” he said. On the call, Sethuraman began instructing the family members to keep all material in the right position and then began chanting hymns. “They all know the procedure. All I had to do was to guide them when they needed help. It went on smoothly,” he said. This was the second such service Sethuraman had performed over a video call in the last week and he says it serves the cause. “We all have devotion in our hearts and minds, and performing rituals in person or virtually doesn’t matter,” he said. TR Ramachandran, another priest from Mylapore, said he has been getting several requests from people to help conduct ceremonies over video calls. “I am used to going to people’s houses and conducting poojas. But since the last one week people have been contacting to me to perform pujas through video calls,” he said. With his son’s help, Ramachandran downloaded video calling applications on his phone and computer. Priests are already booked to conduct amavasai pitru tarpanam, which falls on April 23, via video calls. “I have received four requests from people so far. I am planning to perform the ritual via video conferencing so we don’t waste time,” said Ramachandran. Ravi Kumar Sharma Pendyala, another priest, said he is performing ceremonies using Google Hangouts. He pointed out that there are several rituals that can be easily performed with a little guidance from pundits. “Rituals like the annual ceremonies for forefathers as per their almanac, naming ceremonies and ganapathi homams can be easily performed with items available in the house. These are in high demand now,” he said. “But rituals like house warming ceremony and havans which need more materials cannot be performed over a video call,” said Ravi Kumar. “These ceremonies are being conducted by our ancestors for generations. Hence it is important to us and we need to continue it,” said TR Ananthanarayanan, one of the people who has availed one of these services. Speaking about the crises due to the Covid-19 outbreak, Ravi Kumar said, “We understand what is happening. But when people reach out to us, it is our duty to provide our services in every way possible,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/now-connect-to-god-at-a-click-as-pujas-go-online/articleshow/75169372.cms||Aditi R
April 16, 2020||Kanpur||Cub born to lioness Jennifer at Etawah Safari||Kanpur: Amid lockdown, here's a piece of good news for wildlife lovers that an Asiatic lioness Jennifer gave birth to a cub at Etawah Lion Safari on Wednesday morning. Eight-year-old Jennifer, born to lioness Jessica, had mated with Mannan, and was brought to the lion safari in Etawah from Gujarat's Gir National Park. Jennifer gave birth to its cub in the wee hours of Wednesday. It has been kept in an enclosure and the officials are using CCTV to monitor its progress. Its gender is yet to be ascertained," said director safari VK Singh. Tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kanpur/cub-born-to-lioness-jennifer-at-etawah-safari/articleshow/75168381.cms||Faiz Rahman Siddiqui
April 16, 2020||Bhopal||Tiger kills mahua girl in Pench reserve, third death in state in the last one week||Bhopal: In yet another tiger attack, an 18-year-old girl was killed by a tiger in the core area of Pench tiger reserve in Seoni district. Deceased has been identified as Santoshi Balchand. She had gone to collect mahua flowers inside Pench’s Thuepani area. The tiger grabbed her by the neck, killing her on the spot. It left the spot after this, say forest officials. The incident took place on Wednesday, a day after reserve officials had tranqualised and captured a huge tiger that had killed another girl in the buffer zone. Both were attacked while collecting mahua flowers. Incidentally, this is the third such incident where a girl was killed in a tiger attack while crouching to gather mahua flowers. The first casualty in this season was a 19-year-old girl in Khitoli region of Bandhavgarh Tiger Reserve. None of the girls were eaten by the big cats. Forest officials say they have seen such instances in the past – tigers mistake the crouching humans for four-legged preys. Forest officials routinely advise villagers not to pick up flowers when they pass the buffer zone. Last Wednesday, when an 18- year-old girl collecting mahua flowers near the Pench buffer zone was killed by a tigress, angry villagers had torched a ranger’s vehicle, alleging that the foresters did nothing despite being told that the tigress had attacked a boy in the area a week earlier. Eight people have been booked by police for setting the jeep on fire. Similar incidents are being reported from the Maharasthra-side of Pench tiger reserve. A 56-year-old man collecting mahua flowers was mauled by a tiger in the West Pench range of the park on Monday evening. On April 8, two persons, including a woman from Satara near Kolara in the buffer zone of Tadoba-Andhari Tiger Reserve (TATR) and a 20-year-old girl from Khamba in MP, were killed by tigers in separate incidents. On April 11, one more mahua collector from Kawdapeth in the Mul forest range was killed by a tiger in the forest area. In all, 10 people have been killed in wild animal attacks in Chandrapur district alone since January this year. Though mahua flowers are used for various reasons, they are mostly sold to make liquor.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/tiger-kills-mahua-girl-in-pench-reserve-third-death-in-state-in-the-last-one-week/articleshow/75167920.cms||P Naveen
April 16, 2020||Nagpur||To demand fees or not, schools in dilemma||Nagpur: Many private schools in city are wondering whether or not to demand pending fees or even the advance fee for booking next academic session seats. This financial and moral dilemma is a result of the current lockdown where parents have taken a hit on business income or are facing salary or job cuts. Many schools that have feeder pre-primary section usually take advance fee from parents, which is similar to ‘booking’ a seat as the child enters formal education set up. This is done in April by a majority of schools. Principal of one such school said for her it is an extremely tricky situation because she has to answer both parents and management. “For management, the problem is of finances. Salaries have to be paid and fee comes in quarterly or monthly instalments. Last time we received fee was in February and that is increasing our financial strain,” she said. Another principal, whose family also controls the school trust, said that pending fee issue and delayed RTE reimbursement is a double whammy. “Every time, school cannot step in and offer reprieve. We are already in a situation where 25% of the revenue has taken a hit due to RTE reservation. The reimbursement allotted is hardly 50% of our normal fee and even that is not coming on time. That leaves us with only 75% of normal revenue to work with and now if that also stops, how will we function,” said the principal. A school owner said that running a school is a ‘costly’ affair. “Do you realize that in Nagpur there are many schools whose salary cost per day runs into lakhs. That’s lakhs of rupees going out to the salary pool everyday to be paid at the end of the month. To offset that, isn’t it obvious that one requires lakhs to come in as well?” said the school owner. The government had in March requested schools not to demand fee in view of the movement restrictions that had been put in place due to lockdown. Another principal said, “I am thinking of now sending a message to parents asking for online fee payment, since bank transfer facility is available. We are only worried about a media backlash which may call it an insensitive move.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/to-demand-fees-or-not-schools-in-dilemma/articleshow/75170213.cms||Abhishek Choudhari
April 16, 2020||Kolhapur||Two arrested for hoarding 215 quintal rice meant for poor||Kolhapur: Shahupuri police have arrested two people, including a truck driver, for allegedly hoarding around 225 quintal of rice. According to police, the suspect duo had procured the rice from Karnataka and it was supposed to be distributed via ration shops. The suspects, Ravi Gajwar and Asif Babasaheb Mulla, have been booked under sections 420 (cheating and dishonestly inducing delivery of property) and 188 (disobedience to order duly promulgated by public servant) of the Indian Penal Code and sections 3 and 7 of Essential Commodities Act, 1955. Both the suspects are from Karnataka’s Belagavi district. Police have also seized 860 sacks, weighing 25-kg each, worth Rs 5.16 lakh along with the truck worth Rs 5 lakh from the suspects. "We got information from our sources, that two people had come to Kolhapur with a truck loaded with rice and were looking for prospective buyer in the Market Yard. We immediately rushed to the spot and nabbed them. We suspect that the rice they were selling was procured from the ration shops which is supposed to be distributed to the beneficiaries. We are investigating the case and will soon reach out to the suspects involved in this chain," an officer attached with Shahupuri police station said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolhapur/two-arrested-for-hoarding-215-quintal-rice-meant-for-poor/articleshow/75169379.cms||---
April 16, 2020||Ahmedabad||Ahmedabad cops use 30 private drones for surveillance, deliveries||AHMEDABAD: To tighten implementation of lockdown with increased surveillance and also for delivery of essentials, city police on Wednesday deployed 30 drones belonging to private licence holders. Until now, police had been using around 25 drones owned by them, but added the privately owned drones to the drone fleet after realizing that 25 drones were insufficient to keep watch over the city. Special commissioner of police, crime branch, Ajay Tomar said, “These drones may also be used to supply essentials to the needy who live in areas where police can’t go.” Tomar said the private drone operators had been called especially for use of their drones for surveillance. “We had received about 130 offers from companies and individuals for lending their drones to us. We selected 30 and have deployed them in Walled City areas. We have given three drones to each police station in the Walled City and the rest of the drones are being used in other areas of the city.” The drones have been immensely helpful during the lockdown on keeping a hawk’s eye on social distancing and implementing containment in cluster-quarantined areas, Tomar said. On Monday, Gomtipur police had run the first trials to deliver medicine through private drones. “After a man called us, we bought the prescribed medicine from a medical shop near Gomtipur Fountain and put it in a box attached to the drone which went and landed on the man’s house terrace near Amrapali Cinema,” said an official of Gomtipur police station. In certain countries, online portals send goods ordered by customer to their addresses through drones. Police officials said that the innovative idea of supplying medicines through drones will certainly help in reducing movement of people on road. Senior police officials said that since the lockdown period has been now extended up to May 3, they may also try delivering other essentials through drones..||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/cops-use-30-private-drones-for-surveillance-deliveries/articleshow/75169453.cms||Sarfaraz Shaikh
April 16, 2020||Mumbai||Two seniors test Covid-19 positive in Dadar’s Shivaji Park||MUMBAI: Dadar’s Shivaji Park reported two more Covid-19 cases on Wednesday. With these, the locality now has a total of 21 cases. The two new patients are a 75-year-old woman and a 65-year-old man. The woman is the wife of a senior politician. She would visit Shushrusha Hospital at Dadar for dialysis, where two doctors and six nurses had tested positive for the virus. Mahim, which adjoins Dadar, reported three new cases, two of whom—a 34-year-old woman and a 32-year-old man —were high-risk contacts of a deceased patient who ran a meat shop in Worli. The third patient is a man aged 55. Mahim now has nine cases.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/2-seniors-test-positive-in-shivaji-park/articleshow/75169423.cms||---
April 16, 2020||Kanpur||Eight madrassa students test +ve for Covid-19||Kanpur: Eight students of Sheikh Hidayat Madrassa of Machharia in Naubasta area, who had tested Covid-19 positive, have been shifted to Sarsaul community health centre for treatment. There were around 51 persons, including the supporting staff and sanitary workers in the madrassa. Chief medical officer Dr Ashok Shukla talking to mediapersons on Wednesday said that after testing of samples of the entire madrassa staff, eight students who were found infected with the virus have been sent to Sarsaul for treatment while the remaining staff has been sent to Naraina College quarantine centre. The health authorities said that the district administration got the information that some Tablighi Jamaat members had visited Sheikh Hidayat Madrassa where one student was found positive. “The health department team brought all of them to UHM hospital and collected their samples while 41 students were sent back to the madrassa”, said a health official. On Tuesday, after the samples of eight students were confirmed positive, they were sent to Sarsaul community health centre while the remaining members of the staff were sent to Naraina medical college. According to the district authorities, around 400 madrassas are being operated in the city imparting education to students of the neigbouring districts. Several students of other states such as Bihar and Bengal are stranded in the city following the lockdown.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kanpur/eight-madrassa-students-test-ve-for-covid-19/articleshow/75170140.cms||---
April 16, 2020||Nagpur||Staffers move HC to save Guru Nanak school||Nagpur: The staffers of Guru Nanak School and junior college at Bezonbagh approached the high court here challenging its management’s decision to shut the school from May 31. According to them, over 2,500 children studying in the school, mostly from backward communities, would be the biggest sufferers, apart from 90 teaching and non-teaching staff. While adjourning the hearing till June, Justice Nitin Sambre on Wednesday issued notices to all respondents, including Maharashtra chief secretary and school education ministry and its principal secretary asking them to reply before next hearing. Maharashtra State Disaster Management Authority, Urban Development Department, Pune-based director and Nagpur-based deputy director of school education, Zilla Parishad education officers at primary and secondary levels in city, Nagpur Improvement Trust (NIT) chairman, and Sikh Education Society running the school are the other respondents. While expressing interest in taking over the government aided school, started in 1956, the petitioners through counsel M Anil Kumar said existing management led by Sikh Education Society was misleading the HC. Blaming the respondents for not making any plans for absorbing 2,500 students before pasting closure notice on the board, the petitioners claimed the society had surplus funds. “Their only reason for closing the school was that they might lose the status of minority run institution. Turning it into the CBSE private school would lead to profiteering, which is against the public trust’s objectives,” the petitioners said. The petitioners questioned on how 2,500 students could be accommodated into other schools when entire country was under the lockdown till May 3. They pleaded that the government should take over the school and continue to run it on aided basis for securing future of students who were entitled for free and compulsory education under Right to Education Act. The petitioners stated that the Society had started four more schools on no-grant basis with sole purpose of “profiteering”. These are Guru Nanak technical institute, pharmacy college and kindergarten, apart from Guru Harkishan Public School. Contending that two other schools in the area — Sindhi Hindi and Mahatma Gandhi — can’t be forced to accommodate all 2,500 students and 90 staff, the petitioners prayed for directives to the respondents to take over the school and junior college and appoint an administrator to run it. Alternatively, they demanded that all students be absorbed along with the staff on same wages.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/staffers-move-hc-to-save-guru-nanak-school/articleshow/75170221.cms||Vaibhav Ganjapure
April 16, 2020||Vadodara||Vadodara: APMCs to resume operations from Thursday||VADODARA: All agricultural produce market committees (APMCs) of Vadodara will resume their operations from Thursday. Based on new guidelines issued by the Centre and the state government, Vadodara district collector Shalini Agrawal on Wednesday asked officials to take necessary steps so that the market yards resume their operations with traders maintaining precautions, including social distancing to combat spread of coronavirus. A majority of market yards had shut down amid the 21-day lockdown announced by the Centre. Of the nine APMCs of Vadodara district, Karjan, Waghodiya, Desar and Savli are engaged in grains, pulses and oilseeds, while that of Padra and Vadodara taluka do business in vegetables. Three APMCs – Dabhoi, Shinor and Sadhli – are involved in trading of agriculture produce based on minimum support price.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/apmcs-to-resume-operations-from-today/articleshow/75166561.cms||---
April 16, 2020||Chennai||Corpn collects over 2,500 samples in four days||Chennai: Four days after setting up 25 Covid-19 walk-in sample collection centres across the city, the corporation has collected 2,545 samples. Apart from this, swab collection is carried out by the civic body health workers in the micro-containment clusters. The first kiosks started functioning from Corporation’s properties in Pudupet and Periamet last Saturday. Gradually, the service was extended across the city over the next two days. Of the 25 kiosks, five are at Royapuram Zone (Zone 5) which has the maximum number of Covid-19 positive cases (63) in the city. Walk-in kiosks are set up at select corporation community halls, ICDS (integrated child development services) centres, e-seva centres, school and college campuses in all zones, except for Manali (Zone 2) and Ambattur (Zone 7), which have recorded zero cases thus far. Of the 2,545 samples, 45 % (1,150) are from Royapuram and 327 from Teynampet zones. All the samples will be sent to the government-approved testing labs. “The idea is to reduce the load of testing on the government hospitals which are witnessing a stream of patients and decentralise the testing or at least swab collection,” an official said The results usually take 48 hours. As on April 14, six samples collected at these kiosks are found positive,” according to a corporation official. Corporation officials said they aim to collect around 1,200-1,300 samples a day. The priority for testing would be the immediate relatives or those in close contact of the Covid-19 positive patients. Up next, would be those in the neighbourhood or those who may have contacted the patients. Those who have to deposit their swab would be asked to come to the nearest kiosk at a predetermined time, officials said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/corpn-collects-over-2500-samples-in-four-days/articleshow/75169421.cms||---
April 16, 2020||Vijayawada||Man jailed for spreading rumours in Chittoor||TIRUPATI: A man from Telangana landed behind the bars in Chittoor district for circulating false information related to Covid-19 on online social media platforms, on Wednesday. According to Chittoor DSP K Eswar Reddy, the man identified as M Vishnuvardhan Reddy — who hails from Siddipet in Telangana — was arrested by the Chittoor police on charges of disturbing communal harmony in the state by circulating fake information and rumours on social media platforms. Elaborating the case to reporters, Reddy said Vishnuvardhan Reddy was responsible for circulating false information that Lord Varasiddhi Vinayaka Swamy temple at Kanipakkam in Chittoor district had been converted into a state government quarantine facility and that people from minority communities were walking in and out of the temple complex with footwear. “Vishnuvardhan Reddy used his Twitter, Facebook and WhatsApp accounts to circulate this fake news between April 5 and April 6,” the DSP said. After the videos went viral on social media, Chittoor SP S Senthil Kumar clarified that 44 family members and relatives of three people who tested positive for Covid-19 were placed under isolation at Ganesh Sadan pilgirm amenities complex at Kanipakkam, but not at the temple complex as was alleged in the fake video. Following a complaint lodged by the Kanipakkam temple EO, Chittoor police booked cases against Vishnuvardhan Reddy under sec 120-B IPC, sec 124-A IPC, sec 153 A IPC, sec 188 IPC, sec 505 (1) (s) (2) IPC and also under sec 3 of the AP epidemic diseases Act and sec 54 of the disaster management Act, 2005. The Chittoor police arrested the accused at Siddipet in Telangana and produced him before the local court at Chittoor on Wednesday, which sent him on remand.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/man-jailed-for-spreading-rumours/articleshow/75167985.cms||Sandeep Raghavan
April 16, 2020||Hyderabad||Young mayor on virus alert in Telangana, protects turf||HYDERABAD: The youngest mayor in Telangana, 26-year-old Mekala Kavya, is not only depending on government resources but also pooling the efforts of her family to fight the spread of Covid-19 pandemic in Jawaharnagar municipality. Thankfully, Jawaharnagar has not reported a single case of Covid-19 in any of the 28 divisions in the municipality. “This is precisely the reason why we are working extra hard to see that Covid-19 does not spread in our area,” Kavya told TOI. An engineering graduate in IT, Kavya found herself in the thick of politics during the municipal elections. In January this year, she was elected as a mayor in the seat which was reserved for women. In the fight against Covid-19, the first thing she did was to get on to the road and spray disinfectants. Her father Mekala Ayyappa, who has been in politics and been a social worker, decided to lend a helping hand to his daughter. Her elder brother Bhargav, a builder, and her younger brother Jagapathi, an architect, have all stood with Kavya to reach out to the needy in Jawaharnagar. “We are aware of the fact that government resources are limited. We, as a family, felt we should first do as much as we can with our own money to help people in distress in our municipality,” Kavya said. The family has spent Rs 20 lakh to supply essential commodities to the poor and needy. Irrespective of which party they belonged to, the TRS mayor involved all the corporators. Her father donated 300 tonnes of rice in addition to providing 200 packets of vegetables. Looking at the involvement of the entire family, children in the neighboured brought in their kiddy bank savings for buying 150 kg of rice for distribution.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/young-mayor-on-virus-alert-protects-turf/articleshow/75169433.cms||Ch Sushil Rao
April 16, 2020||Aurangabad||With 2 more casualties, death toll in Aurangabad rises to 5||AURANGABAD: A 76-year-old woman from the Bhawsingpura area and a 60-year-old man from Aref colony died of coronavirus, taking the tally of Covid-19 casualties in the Aurangabad city to five till Wednesday morning. According to an official release, two new confirmed Covid-19 cases were reported till Wednesday evening, pushing the total number of confirmed cases in the city to 38. It also said that one patient was discharged from the hospital after fully recovering from the infection. The increase in the number of deaths and confirmed Covid-19 cases has prompted the district administration to make a fresh appeal to the citizens to follow lockdown norms in letter and spirit in order to contain the spread of the disease. The 76-year-old woman from Bhawsingpura area of the city died on Tuesday morning. However, the health authorities confiemed her death due to Covid-19 only on Wednesday morning. On April 19, the septuagenarian was admitted to a state-run hospital in an unconscious state as a suspected case of Covid 19. She had tested negative for coronavirus in the first test that was carried out using her throat swab samples then. Meanwhile, the 60-year-old resident of Aref colony died of Covid-19 in the wee hours of Wednesday. Two more cases from Samta Nagar area. As per an official release, the two fresh confirmed cases of Covid-19 emerged from the Samta Nagar area of the city. Two men — a 51-year-old and a 25-year-old — tested positive for Covid-19. Nita Padalkar, the health officer with the Aurangabad Municipal Corporation, said both high-risk and low-risk contacts of both the new patients are currently being being traced by health officials. “Both the confirmed Covid-19 patients were admitted to the designated Covid care centre as they were suspected patients in the beginning. They are being moved to the district civil hospital as it has been confirmed that they have contracted the infection,” she said. Meanwhile, Aurangabad divisional commissioner Sunil Kendrekar on Wednesday held a review meeting in order to put an effective check on the spread of Covid-19 in the region. He asked the district administrations and local self-governing bodies to work in unison to wage an effective war against the pandemic. The divisional chief also asked the district administration to arrange for necessary funds for the local self-governing bodies to undertake awareness campaigns and other measures aimed at containing the spread of the infectious disease. “In the wake of the surge in the Covid-19 cases, especially in Aurangabad, the divisional commissioner specifically asked for strict compliance with the lockdown norms. The district administrations and civic authorities were asked to make sure that there is no crowding of people while buying essentials,” an official release said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/with-2-more-casualties-death-toll-in-city-rises-to-5/articleshow/75304176.cms||---
April 16, 2020||Jaipur||JDA to develop quarantine centres in 5,800 RHB flats||JAIPUR: The Jaipur Development Authority (JDA) has started an exercise to develop quarantine centres in the district on a massive scale. Nearly 5,800 flats of Rajasthan Housing Board (RHB) have been identified for the purpose on Wednesday. RHB commissioner Pawan Arora said, “The board will develop 5,800-room capacity quarantine centres to shelter the suspects. These quarantine centres will be developed in Dastakar Yojana at Naila, Agra Road and the multi-storied flats built in the village Mahala on Ajmer Road,” he said. The civic body will develop 1,400 rooms in Dastakar Yojana in 700 houses. Similarly, 4,400 rooms in 1,500 flats will be developed in Mahala on Ajmer Road. Unlike the district administration, the JDA has adopted a different strategy to zero in on quarantine centres for the residents. The JDA is looking for buildings that have rooms to accommodate more than 300 people. The civic body is ensuring that these buildings are 20-25 km away from the city. Also, people who are sent to quarantine do not stay in one big hall. Sources said the buildings identified by the district administration were inside the city in densely populated areas. Locals objected to these quarantine centres in the middle of dense populations. Also, no building had the facility to accommodate more than 50 people. “First priority is that building should be away from the densely populated areas,” said a source. With the number of confirmed coronavirus cases is expected to increase, the JDA identified also 20 more private buildings in Jaipur. However, officials, refrained themselves from disclosing the locations and names as owners approach government not to acquire their building for centres. “Out of identified buildings, most are schools and colleges. After JDA identify the buildings, the acquisition letter is issued by district collector. Many apply push and pull to escape from acquisition,” said a source.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/jda-to-develop-quarantine-centres-in-5800-rhb-flats/articleshow/75170232.cms||---
April 16, 2020||Bhopal||Stuck in far-off cities, rail travellers’ woes continue||Bhopal: Bhawna Sharma has been waiting to come back to Bhopal after being stuck up in Agra for the past 21 days. Now with lockdown increased till May 3, her waiting period has stretched for few weeks at least, especially after Railways announced that advance booking in trains remains closed till further orders. Bhawna is not the only one from Bhopal, who is stuck up in other parts of the country after lockdown was announced. “I came to Agra for an assignment. I was staying with two other friends; they went back on March 23. I was supposed to come back to Bhopal on March 25, but as luck would have it, lockdown was announced on March 24. Since then, I was staying alone in Agra, but recently, I shifted to a friend’s home,” said Bhawna. Same is the case with Ankush Verma who is stuck up in Noida. “I do not know when will I get back. As Railways have stopped advance bookings, it has become even more frustrating for me,” said Ankush. There are several students who are also stuck up in different parts of the country, having visited those places for academics. West Central Railway has made it clear that services will resume only after lockdown ends. Indian Railways have, however, extended the period of cancellation of all passenger trains for complete refund. During the lockdown, all mail express trains (including premium trains) passenger trains and suburban trains will remain closed till May 3. Passengers will be given full refund on the tickets issued for all these cancelled trains, stated WCR CPRO, Priyanka Dixit. WCR has made it clear that passengers who had booked e-ticket for the said period of journey are not required to cancel the tickets; the entire amount of fare will be automatically refunded to their accounts (from which reservation was made). Similarly, passengers who booked tickets through reservation counters in cancelled trains till May 3, can get full refund till 31 July, 2020. During this period, movement of goods trains and parcel special trains will continue to ensure supply of essential goods in different parts of the country.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/stuck-in-far-off-cities-rail-travellers-woes-continue/articleshow/75167958.cms||Ramendra Singh
April 16, 2020||Ahmedabad||Metro labourers stranded in city||Ahmedabad: Once they put their labour to build the metro network to provide rapid transit facilities to Ahmedabad, but now they find themselves stuck in the city and in dire need of food and other basic essentials. Apart from these 21 labourers, who were working on the metro project and now stay in the Thaltej area, 25 other labourers, who worked for a pharmaceuticals company in Bavla in Ahmedabad district, also find themselves in dire need of basic necessities. Some of them want to return to their native places in UP, Bihar and Jharkhand as they are left with no money. Ajaykumar Mahato, 25, a native of Jharkhand, told TOI that he and 20 others worked on the metro projected as contracted labour, but now all they want is to go home. “When the lockdown was announced, we were given some food and access to water at our labour colony in Thaltej. But it was not enough for 21 labourers and was expended in about two weeks. With the help of some NGOs and individuals, we got some more food for a week, but as the lockdown has been extended for 19 days, we don’t have a clue as to how we will manage,” said Mahato. Mahato said that some people came there on Tuesday and took their Aadhaar card details while promising to provide them some food, but did not return. “We also tried to go out on Tuesday, thinking that we would manage to go back to our native places, but the cops did not allow us to go and we remained here, because we fear legal troubles,” said Mahato. Another labourer, Shivratan Singh, who is also from Jharkhand, said that he and 24 others were stuck in Bavla and did not get any help from the authorities. “Initially, our employer gave some money and food but now he too has stopped providing any help. We are in dire need of food and money,” said Singh.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/metro-labourers-stranded-in-city/articleshow/75169446.cms||---
April 16, 2020||Trichy||Govt moves PCR equipment of univs to testing centres||Trichy/Chennai: As the number of samples being drawn for testing Covid-19 has been going up, the state health department has moved PCR equipment from agriculture, veterinary and state universities to its testing centres. It has also deputed microbiologists and lab technicians from several districts to these labs.At least Two RT-PCR equipment from Bharathidasan University have been made operational from Wednesday. Earlier, machines from Agriculture University and Madurai Kamaraj University were taken to testing centres. The state has 26 labs including 16 in the government sector. “Each state lab has staff working in three shifts and they can test 230 samples a day. Together with private labs, we have a testing capacity of 5,320 samples every day,” health minister C Vijayabaskar said.Labs, however, are not there in all districts. While cities like Chennai have more than four government laboratories, many districts are forced to transport samples to the neighbouring districts. The sample size in some labs is very high because they cater to a larger population.To strengthen manpower, K A P Viswanathan government medical college in Trichy has roped in five lab technicians from other departments. Besides this, a microbiologist who was working as medical officer from neighbouring district has also been deputed, said S Dhanapal, head, microbiology department. “The government has given equipment but there was no communication on the technicians and microbiologist. We made internal arrangements. We can also take help from academia if the government allows us,” he said. Academicians from different colleges said they are now willing to volunteer for testing, training and research. Some senior academicians are now pushing the state government to give an open call in this regard inviting those involved in PCR-based process in molecular biology, said National College Trichy head of biotechnology and microbiology department M S Mohamed Jaabir. “It is a purely a molecular biology technique which involves a lot of skill. It may harm the person involved in testing if not handled carefully,” he said.The state does not have trained personnel in handling PCR and other molecular biology tools. “This is an unprecedented situation. So far, there was no demand for this sort of skill sets for our paramedic team, but now the situation demands it,” said S Senthil Kumar, Botany department faculty who is into sub surface micro-organism research.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/govt-moves-pcr-equipment-of-univs-to-testing-centres/articleshow/75170250.cms||Sampath Kumar
April 16, 2020||Chennai||For board exams next year, CBSE schools begin online classes||CHENNAI: With schools remaining closed for nearly a month now due to Covid-19 crisis in the city, CBSE schools have begun online classes for students who are promoted to Class X and XII to compensate loss of working days. Some schools teaching through apps like zoom, teamlink and microsoft teams, other schools are using learning management systems to upload the lessons. The new academic year supposed to start from April 1 and many schools had originally planned to take classes till third or fourth week of April. "There could be at least one or two months delay in reopening of schools due to Covid-19 crisis. We can make it up during pooja and Christmas holidays. We have started online classes to keep our students engaged," said P G Subramanian, principal of Bhavan's Rajaji Vidhyashram. Sunitha Vipinchandran, principal of Asan Memorial Senior Secondary School said students in Classes X and XII are more responsive to online classes. "We are sending the materials, resources and assignments to parents and they are taking the initiative. The school is also sending the alerts for online classes," she said adding that online classes likely to be extended for other classes as well. Bala Vidyamandir Senior Secondary School Principal R Srinivasa Raghavan said the school has taken the decision to introduce online classes in the previous year itself. "We have trained our teachers in taking online classes. They are uploading lectures using software. Students can view these lectures using their login ID," he said. Students can also rate the lectures. Meena Sriram, an English teacher from Bala Vidyamandir said the Covid-19 crisis has helped her school to make a seamless transition to online classes. "Students will not have brakes in academics especially in Classes X and XII. Though there is no interactive audience, it challenges teachers to make it interesting and informative so children be engaged and watch the video. The students also can play it any number of times," she said. G Chitramala, a Hindi teacher from Modern Senior Secondary School said teachers are prescribing online resources through various apps including teamlink. "We prescribe class timings in advance to the students. Many students are actively participating in the online classes," she said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/for-board-exams-next-year-cbse-schools-begin-online-classes/articleshow/75169449.cms||---
April 16, 2020||Jaipur||JMC carries out massive op to disinfect Ramganj||JAIPUR: As Ramganj has emerged as the epicentre of novel coronavirus in the state, the Jaipur Municipal Corporation (JMC) on Wednesday carried out a massive operation to disinfect the area. The operation started early morning after deploying 15 fire tenders. While, 12 tenders were kept for spraying, three were used to refill the empty tenders. Chief fire officer Jagdish Prasad Phulwari said, “We had deployed fire tenders having capacities of 4,000 litre and 2,000 litre. Around 1% of sodium hypochlorite was mixed to disinfect area. As Ramganj has narrow lanes, bigger fire tenders were used in main markets and smaller ones in other lanes. Fire tenders with 12,000 litre capacity was used for refilling,” he said. Officials claim, the entire Walled City area, including Ramganj, has been disinfected. “On Wednesday, each tender made at least four rounds to disinfect the area. Even though, chemical has been sprayed in entire city area, the operation will continue and four tenders will be deployed on daily basis,” he said. The operation to spray sodium hypochlorite to disinfect the city areas is being done on a massive scale. According to a JMC official, the civic body is spraying over 2.20 lakh litre of the chemical mixture per day using fire tenders. Sources in JMC said, spraying of the disinfectant is done on priority basis so the department has to ration the chemical. The demand for sodium hypochlorite, which is mostly used in hospitals as a disinfectant, has increased in the state after the spread of the virus. “At present, approximately 1,500 litre of the chemical is sprayed in the city every day. We have sufficient amount of chemical to spray in sensitive areas. However, rationing has to be done and random areas cannot be disinfected. We are working on priority basis,” added the official. Watch Jaipur: JMC carries out massive disinfection drive in Covid-19 hotspot Ramganj||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/jmc-carries-out-massive-op-to-disinfect-ramganj/articleshow/75170239.cms||---
April 16, 2020||Nagpur||8 camera traps stolen from Navegaon-Nagzira||Nagpur: Miscreants stole eight camera traps worth Rs1.60 lakh installed for Phase IV tiger estimation exercise being undertaken by Navegaon-Nagzira Tiger Reserve (NNTR) in Gondia and Bhandara districts. Phase IV exercise is in progress in wildlife sanctuaries, tiger reserves and their buffer zones since February in the entire state. On April 4, NNTR had installed 602 camera traps at 301 locations including core and buffer zone. On April 8, four were found missing from Jambli beat under Gondia territorial division near Tidka and Yerandi villages. Two more were stolen near Maramjob village from Compartment 544 and another two from Compartment 513 near Shenda village. “More than the camera traps, it is the recorded data that is vital. If these data land in the hands of poachers it will spell doom for wildlife,” said NGOs. NNTR has announced a reward of Rs5,000 for people helping the department to nab the culprits.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/8-camera-traps-stolen-from-navegaon-nagzira/articleshow/75170251.cms||---
April 16, 2020||Trichy||Gang tries to break open ATM in Trichy||TRICHY: A three-member gang attempted to steal cash from an ATM of the City Union Bank at Thuvakudi in Trichy in the early hours on Wednesday. The gang members, with their face covered with clothes, barged into the ATM situated on the Tasmac Godown Road and caught hold of security guard V Marudhu, 60. While one of the accused pinned Marudhu down to the floor, the others started breaking open the ATM. They broke open the door of the machine. However, their attempt to reach the container where the cash was kept went in vain. The disappointed gang fled the scene. On being alerted by the watchman, bank officials and the Thuvakudi police rushed to the spot. Police said that the cash in the machine was intact. They said the identity of the accused could not be ascertained as their face was completely covered. Police are in the process of checking CCTV footage in the area to identify the gang members. Forensic experts were also called to the spot to look for finger prints. Sources said that it was difficult to get any traces as the gang was wearing hand gloves.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/gang-tries-to-break-open-atm-in-trichy/articleshow/75170241.cms||---
April 16, 2020||Jaipur||Virus screenings take hit as test kits stuck in China||JAIPUR: The state government’s strategy of aggressive screening, testing and quarantine of suspects to prevent spread of Covid-19 in Jaipur’s Ramganj and other hotspots in the state suffered a setback as the rapid test kits ordered by the state were still pending at a port in China.  Meanwhile, a report from Delhi said India will finally receive the first consignment of rapid testing kits by this week with one consignment of 3,00,000 kits being cleared by customs in Guangzhou on Wednesday and headed to Delhi on Thursday, said official sources. Over the next couple of weeks, India is expected to receive about 2-3 million kits from China. “Not only the kits ordered by Rajasthan but by the central government are also pending at a China port,” said chief minister Ashok Gehlot on Wednesday. The state government had ordered 10 lakh kits and was expecting the first tranche of 2 lakh soon. But the consignment has not yet been dispatched. Since the central government had also put its order from China, there is no way the state could arrange test kits from the Centre either. The state has been focusing on testing, isolating and quarantining the suspects as a strategy to control the pandemic in congested areas like Ramganj. Sources in the state government said in Ramganj, which is now the nerve centre of Corona, the administration has decided that if space is available at the residences of suspects or relatives of corona positives, they will be allowed home quarantine. “The officials have been busy identifying buildings to quarantine people living in the old city areas, as home quarantines are virtually ineffective in this congested locality,” said an official. The chief minister said, “We are making arrangements to accommodate about 20,000 people in quarantine centres in Jaipur.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/virus-screenings-take-hit-as-test-kits-stuck-in-china/articleshow/75170247.cms||Joychen Joseph
April 16, 2020||Vijayawada||Soldier from Srikakulam goes missing in Himachal Pradesh||VIJAYAWADA: A soldier from Srikakulam has gone missing in Himachal Pradesh. He is suspected to have accidentally fallen in the Sutlej river valley along with another soldier whom the cops have rescued. The family members of the missing soldier, identified as Prakash Rail, approached Himachal Pradesh governor Bandaru Dattatreya, who directed the cops and defence personnel to inquire into the incident. The police said Prakash and another soldier were on sentry duty at Choling area on the China border. On Wednesday, one soldier was found lying unconscious on the river bank. However, Prakash is yet to be traced. The rescue team has retrieved the backpack and cap belonging to Prakash. As many as 300 personnel from both the police and the Indian Army are searching the area.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/soldier-from-srikakulam-goes-missing-in-himachal/articleshow/75168013.cms||---
April 16, 2020||Ahmedabad||Ahmedabad man on way home thinking lockdown has ended, booked||AHMEDABAD: City police on Tuesday morning booked a man from Chandlodia at Tapovan Circle on Sardar Patel Ring Road near Chandkheda, when he was returning to his home on foot presuming that the 21-day lockdown was over. The man, Vijay Rathod, 40, a resident of Alfa Row House in Chandlodia, had been in Bayad taluka of Aravalli district on March 23 when the lockdown was announced. Rathod stayed there for 21 days waiting to return to his home in Ahmedabad. On Monday night, Rathod thought that the lockdown was about to be over on Tuesday, so he left Bayad and began walking towards the city. He walked for some distance and later took a lift in a truck carrying vegetables and then resumed his journey on foot from Mehsana. Rathod was around 12km from his home when Chandkheda police apprehended him and booked him for violating the lockdown notification. A cop said that Rathod had travelled around 80km from Bayad to Ahmedabad to reach his home, but his journey was cut short at Tapovan Circle. Rathod had crossed the borders of Mehsana and Gandhinagar districts evading the eyes of cops. But as he presumed that the 21-day lockdown had ended on April 15, and was unaware of the new extension for 19 days, he started walking on road without making any effort to hide and got caught.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/man-on-way-home-thinking-lockdown-has-ended-booked/articleshow/75169442.cms||---
April 16, 2020||Kanpur||Three corona suspects die in LLR hospital, reports awaited||KANPUR: Three persons, including a man hailing from neighbouring Hamirpur, admitted to the Covid-19 ward at Lala Lajpat Rai (LLR) hospital as coronavirus suspects, died on Tuesday and Wednesday. The test reports of the three are still awaited. The count of death of suspect patients reached 10, one of whom had tested positive on Tuesday. Chief medical superintendent LLR hospital Dr R K Maurya said, “A 50-year-old man, who was admitted to Covid-19 ward as coronavirus suspect, died on Tuesday. His tests reports are awaited. The man was admitted to hospital on Monday evening with symptoms of breathlessness, cough and fever.” “We are now trying to trace his travel history,” said a district health official. “A 56-year-old man from Hamirpur district admitted to at LLR hospital on Wednesday morning with symptoms of breathlessness, cough and fever died later. His sample report is awaited,” said Maurya. Meanwhile, a 75-year-old man, a resident of Yashodanagar, who was admitted to Covid-19 ward on Wednesday morning, died during treatment. “He was admitted at around 11.30am on Wednesday,” said Maurya. “The reports of their nasal and throat swabs are awaited. The bodies would be handled as per the Covid-19 protocol,” he added. So far, 10 suspected coronavirus patients have died in the city. One among them had tested positive on Tuesday. Meanwhile, the cremation of two local persons, who were suspected to be COVID -19 and died at LLR hospital, took place at electric crematorium at Bhairanv Ghat adopting Government of India protocol. In another development, condition of two technicians working at Covid -19 lab of medical college worsened in the afternoon. However, Dr Arati Lalchandani ,principal of GSVM medical college said they took ill because of fatigue. DM Brahmadeo Ram Tiwari said that two counsellors had been appointed by the government in view of coronavirus infection and anyone could take necessary suggestions from them. The counsellors are Nidhi Madhesia (contact no- 8597347053 and Sudhanshu Prakash Mishra -9451363488. Apart from it, health department has also released two more landline numbers (0512-2333810 and 052-2311155) for counselling.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kanpur/three-corona-suspects-die-in-llr-hospital-reports-awaited/articleshow/75170176.cms||---
April 16, 2020||Ahmedabad||Ahmed Shah Army plans to sanitize all houses in Juhapura||Ahmedabad: A group of nearly 15 volunteers in Juhapura, the largest Muslim area of the city, has embarked on a mission sanitization. The group aims to sanitize every house to fight against the further spread of coronavirus. Its members have named the group as ‘Ahmed Shah Army’, after the founder of Gujarat’s Sultanate and the city of Ahmedabad. The group has been spraying sanitizer in different localities of the area for the past few days. It is now planning to cover each of the more than 30,000 houses in the area that is stretched over two kilometres. One of the volunteers, advocate Gulmoin Khokhar, said that their main aim was to sanitize the houses of the poor in the locality. “A local activist donated us spraying machines. We got sanitizer, which has the same material used by the Ahmedabad Municipal Corporation for sanitizing societies. We obtained it from the authorities,” he explained. Khokhar added: “We have covered more than 5,000 houses in the past five days. We also sanitized the hospitals and two police stations here. Cops appreciated our efforts and advised us to keep the activity on, with a condition to maintain social distancing.” Khokhar said that the group decided to carry out the sanitization work because the civic body did not bother to send its team for the purpose. “They come and conduct sanitization in limited areas, particularly where they have found Covid-19 positive patients,” he said, adding, “We have appealed to the societies of the wealthy, first to procure the chemical, so that we can offer them our services. However, our work is focussed mainly on the poor.” Yunus Jambuwala, who helped the army get sprayers, said, “Initially, we were into distributing ration kits. When that work got over, we thought to continue the social service in this lockdown period. Then someone came up with this idea of sanitization and we found it worthwhile.” Lorem ipsum dolor sit amet, consectetur adipiscing elit. Mauris euismod luctus erat, accumsan semper ex lobortis nec. Cras sed aliquet sapien, vel eleifend purus. Donec in dui sodales, consectetur sapien ac, sodales dolor. Nunc sit amet eros arcu. Donec ut mollis sapien. Morbi ornare dolor eget felis vehicula, viverra commodo tortor porttitor. Curabitur pellentesque lorem at neque facilisis commodo. Nullam a porttitor lorem. Proin non mattis diam. Cras eu metus pulvinar, imperdiet augue id, volutpat ipsum. Orci varius natoque penatibus et magnis dis parturient montes, nascetur ridiculus mus. Sed sed lorem quis ex mattis dignissim. Pellentesque vitae nisi libero. Etiam bibendum neque nec ex feugiat ullamcorper. Donec posuere lectus sit amet condimentum pretium. Nulla facilisi. Mauris ornare lorem ut turpis ornare, et commodo turpis feugiat. Orci varius natoque penatibus et magnis dis parturient montes, nascetur ridiculus mus. Suspendisse vehicula euismod lobortis. Aenean eu volutpat eros. Aenean vitae massa consequat, condimentum arcu id, mollis lacus. Aenean ac risus at nunc viverra pharetra. Etiam iaculis eros sit amet neque iaculis, eget molestie odio tempus. Pellentesque sagittis consequat diam, vel porta metus aliquam id. Duis eget condimentum turpis. Curabitur in neque in est mollis posuere congue id magna. Phasellus vitae suscipit massa. Nullam felis ligula, pretium sed lacinia non, hendrerit a ante. Cras pretium efficitur nisi, vel aliquet neque porttitor quis. Mauris ut suscipit quam. Vivamus nisi massa, interdum quis orci vehicula, ullamcorper mattis sem. Proin condimentum ex at libero feugiat, quis condimentum velit malesuada. Pellentesque interdum massa lacus. Duis nulla ante, aliquam at egestas ac, rutrum et lacus. Sed euismod viverra sodales. Aenean diam lorem, condimentum sed suscipit quis, condimentum vel ligula. Curabitur in auctor orci, sed facilisis nunc. Duis et auctor sem. Morbi sit amet massa id tortor sagittis elementum in non nibh. Phasellus bibendum lorem vitae urna mollis lobortis. In.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/ahmed-shah-army-plans-to-sanitize-all-houses-in-juhapura/articleshow/75149023.cms||---
April 16, 2020||Trichy||Thanjavur dist declares near-total shutdown on Sundays till May 3||Thanjavur: With markets all over the state witnessing big crowds on Sundays, the Thanjavur district administration has decided to go for almost a total shutdown on Sundays till May 3 when the extended lockdown ends. This means that barring pharmacies and hospitals, all shops including those selling vegetables and groceries will remain shut on all Sundays.So, won’t the crowds come out on the other days to make up for this restriction? The district administration has been issuing tri-colour coded cards to regulate such crowds too. Accordingly, green card holders can go out on Mondays and Thursdays between 6am and 1pm while blue card holders can go out on Tuesdays and Fridays and pink colour on Wednesdays and Saturdays. “Eventually, nobody needs to come out on Sunday. The district administration has planned to implement total lockdown on Sundays till the curfew period ends,” district collector M Govinda Rao said in a statement.Despite being driven to their wit’s end by the lockdown, the general public has generally welcomed the move. V Sathyanarayanan, secretary of All Traders’ Association Kumbakonam said, “Since most of the people have stocked groceries, they need to come out to buy vegetables once in three days only. The district administration has taken various steps to deliver essentials at the doorsteps. Total shutdown can be observed even twice a week,” he said. Meanwhile, Ariyalur district superintendent of police V R Srinivasan told TOI that colour-coded card system has been in force in his district for the last one week. They also observed a total lockdown last Sunday (April 12), “Our ultimate aim is to make people remain indoors. As per the card system, nobody can come out of their home every day. So, it was easy for us to implement it successfully with the help of the people. We have decided to follow it on the coming Sunday also,” he added.“The priority should be to address the people’s needs during the lockdown,” said Aazhi Senthil Nathan, publisher and activist based in Chennai. “The district administration should have supportive mechanism and response mechanism in case of emergency while imposing lockdown,” he further said. S Pushpavanam, state secretary of Consumer Protection Council, said Thanjavur model should be implemented in all the districts.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/thanjavur-dist-declares-near-total-shutdown-on-sundays-till-may-3/articleshow/75170236.cms||D Vincent Arockiaraj
April 16, 2020||Chennai||AAI to resume terminal work at Chennai airport on April 24||CHENNAI: The guidelines issued for the shutdown relaxing some of the restriction after April 20 have come as a blessing for the Chennai airport. The Airports Authority of India (AAI) will now be able to resume construction of integrated terminal which was stalled after a national shutdown was announced in the last week of March. A senior official of AAI said, “We are looking at resuming work on April 24 but in a phased manner. The guidelines say that work can be carried out if labourers are available in a camp. Our workers are all in a labour camp opposite to the airport and have been sitting idle.” He also said that social distancing norms will have to be followed while bringing workers in to the work site and also during construction. “We will start the work in a phased manner and step it up only slowly so that there is no need for the full force of labourers to come in for work. This will help in completing the work this year though there may be some delay because of the days lost and also because of the pace of work due to restrictions,” he added. Sources said that there might be some issues in procuring materials because of the shutdown. But most of the materials like cement and all is stocked. The equipment and vehicles are at the work site only. Since, its infrastructure work contractors will be able to bring in materials and the government will allow trucks to come. An official says that shutdown is also an advantage for the work because the airport is not functioning. “It was a challenge to carry out the work with a functioning domestic and international terminal on either side of the worksite. Now, the city side and the air side is free as there are no passengers and no flights,” he added. All major work has been completed to build the terminal in the space between the international and domestic terminals. The structure is ready and the roof work was going on. Once that is over, the contractor was supposed to take up exterior and interior work on the building. The deadlines is September this year. The new terminal is expected to increase the passenger handling capacity of the airport to more than 30million passengers per year. Similarly, work may also resume to complete the multi-level car parking that is underway near the metro rail station. There is also a move to see if works can resume to build balance portion of the taxiway. “It will be easier to carry out because only two to three flights, cargo flights and rescue flights, are operated in a day,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/aai-to-resume-terminal-work-at-airport-on-april-24/articleshow/75169439.cms||V Ayyappan
April 16, 2020||Bhopal||GMC +ve case link traced in 7 dists, 89 tagged ‘high-risk’||Bhopal: Health department has alerted collectors in Dewas, Rajgarh, Hoshangabad, Raisen, Vidhsha, Sehore along with the state capital to screen for patients, new-borns and their relatives for Covid-19. A list of 25 women who were admitted in Bhopal’s Sultania hospital, has been sent to the respective collectors and health officers. These women come in contact with Gandhi Medical College (GMC) doctor in the maternity care hospital, said Sultania hospital superintendent, Dr I D Chaurasia, on Monday. The doctor is assumed to have been present in the operation theatre where these women underwent surgery. The doctor was on duty until last Friday, when she was diagnosed with Covid-19. The patient and their relatives who came to Bhopal hospital are to be screened. Contact tracing of those who came in close contact with Covid-19 positive doctor includes, two patients from Dewas, one from Hoshangabad and Sehore and three each from Rajgarh and Raisen. The rest of the patients who were have a contact history are from Bhopal. Meanwhile, 25 nurses along with seven class-III staff of Sultania hospital were categorised as high-risk on Monday. Earlier, 31 doctors including two senior residents were sent into quarantine. In all about more than 89 people have been tagged as high risk, after GMC junior doctor tested positive.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/gmc-ve-case-link-traced-in-7-dists-89-tagged-high-risk/articleshow/75168028.cms||Jamal Ayub
April 16, 2020||Jaipur||43% of pandemic patients in city fall in 20-40 age group||JAIPUR: As on April 15, as many as 43% of Covid-19 patients in Jaipur were in the age group of 20-40 years. According to official statistics, out of 483 cases, 208 were in the 20-40 year bracket. The situation becomes further worrisome when 80% of them were found to be asymptomatic while rest had mild symptoms. Commenting on the trend, SMS Hospital medical superintendent DS Meena said, “Even those in much younger age groups (0-20 years) are either asymptomatic or show just mild symptoms. The blessing in disguise is that none of them in the age group of 0-60 years are in serious condition.” The authorities are already focussing on the youths during random testing. “The figure makes it clear that the young population of Ramganj cannot be ignored till they show any symptoms. Also, the challenge is they are a big threat to their elderly family members,” said Aqeel Khan, an area magistrate. Figures said just 42 are from the vulnerable age group of 60 years and above. Meena said those in this category are in a critical condition due to co-morbidity. The figures also highlighted that in every four every third Covid-19 patient is a woman. “This makes clear two things — cramped-up living in the Walled City makes it impossible for women to follow social distancing and poor health of women in these areas,” said Meena.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/43-of-pandemic-patients-in-city-fall-in-20-40-age-group/articleshow/75170256.cms||Shoeb Khan
April 16, 2020||Trichy||Tamil Nadu: Lockdown could impact temperature, bring pre-monsoon showers||CHENNAI: The nationwide lockdown, imposed to control the spread of Covid-19, is also likely to impact the weather, say meteorologists. The drop in pollution levels due to the shutdown of factories and vehicles off road may have an effect on temperatures, particularly at night, and may bring intense pre-monsoon showers in the coming weeks. Y E A Raj, former deputy director general of India Meteorological Department (IMD) said the absence of carbon dioxide and aerosol particles in the air will help radiation from sun go back to space unhindered resulting in the land cooling up faster. “This will result in a drop in temperature. Presumably, lower by 0.5 to one deg C,” he said. “But other factors like the amount of incoming radiation during the day, humidity levels, CO2 and wind direction will also play a role.” But it requires careful analysis of pollutants levels and observational meteorological data for a longer period before and during lockdown to see if there was a change in the weather pattern, he said. IMD director N Puviarasan said clean air could also lead to an increase in day temperature, as the sunlight radiation penetrates earth directly. An earlier IMD forecast said TN was likely to experience normal maximum temperatures with a slight departure from normal, -0.5°C to 0.5°C, between April and June. The average maximum temperatures for the three summer months including May is generally 34°C-37°C. Now, temperatures hovering around a maximum of 35 degrees C and a minimum of 26 degrees C. Factors like wind direction too play a role in daily temperatures. “Right now we have easterly or southeasterly warmers winds from the sea flowing through the night. So, we cannot say if the temperature is influenced by the wind or the lockdown. If the winds are calm and then we can study if the temperatures are dropping in the night,” he said. “Also that the maximum amount of gases in the atmosphere are nitrogen and oxygen, while CO2 is very less. So even if there’s a variation in temperatures due to the low pollution, it would be negligible,” he added. The IMD on Wednesday forecast a normal southwest monsoon over the country, while Prof Sridhar Balasubramanian, climate expert from IIT Bombay, said the absence of air pollutants could bring intense pre-monsoon showers in April and May. “Particles suspended in the atmosphere trap the heat and let the clouds evaporate. The absence of aerosols will help clouds hang in for longer,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/lockdown-could-impact-temp-bring-pre-monsoon-showers/articleshow/75173791.cms||U Tejonmayam
April 16, 2020||Trichy||Tamil Nadu: A missed call can get you essentials at Vedaranyam||NAGAPATTINAM: Residents of Vedaranyam municipality can now get essential commodities including medicines, vegetables and groceries at their doorsteps from Thursday onwards by just giving a missed call on a mobile number. A private consultancy has joined hands with the municipality to distribute the essentials to the people. Launching the scheme in Vedaranyam on Wednesday, state textile and handloom minister O S Manian appealed to the people to utilize this facility to minimize the risk of community spread of Covid-19. Elaborating on the scheme, Manian said that municipality officials in association with Gravity Consultancy in Karaikal have planned to execute the process till the lockdown is lifted. So, general public residing within municipality limit should give a missed call on 9999719565 to avail the facility. “Once the volunteers of the team receive a missed call, they will call back on the number and get the details of their requirements and supply the items to their doorstep. People will get their things within an hour,” minister said. Speaking to reporters, district collector Praveen P Nair said that 10,500 people remit their house and property tax. These people alone can avail the facility. Since vegetable and grocery shops have been allowed to function between 6am and 1pm, people should make their calls before 12pm. If anyone posts their request after 1pm, they would receive the items only the next day. However, in case of medicines, they can order any time, the collector further said. Since everyone should remain indoors during the extended lockdown, Vedaranyam municipality has taken this initiative to make sure that people do not step out of their houses.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/a-missed-call-can-get-you-essentials-at-vedaranyam/articleshow/75170254.cms||D Vincent Arockiaraj
April 16, 2020||Puducherry||Tamil Nadu: Lockdown could impact temperature, bring pre-monsoon showers||CHENNAI: The nationwide lockdown, imposed to control the spread of Covid-19, is also likely to impact the weather, say meteorologists. The drop in pollution levels due to the shutdown of factories and vehicles off road may have an effect on temperatures, particularly at night, and may bring intense pre-monsoon showers in the coming weeks. Y E A Raj, former deputy director general of India Meteorological Department (IMD) said the absence of carbon dioxide and aerosol particles in the air will help radiation from sun go back to space unhindered resulting in the land cooling up faster. “This will result in a drop in temperature. Presumably, lower by 0.5 to one deg C,” he said. “But other factors like the amount of incoming radiation during the day, humidity levels, CO2 and wind direction will also play a role.” But it requires careful analysis of pollutants levels and observational meteorological data for a longer period before and during lockdown to see if there was a change in the weather pattern, he said. IMD director N Puviarasan said clean air could also lead to an increase in day temperature, as the sunlight radiation penetrates earth directly. An earlier IMD forecast said TN was likely to experience normal maximum temperatures with a slight departure from normal, -0.5°C to 0.5°C, between April and June. The average maximum temperatures for the three summer months including May is generally 34°C-37°C. Now, temperatures hovering around a maximum of 35 degrees C and a minimum of 26 degrees C. Factors like wind direction too play a role in daily temperatures. “Right now we have easterly or southeasterly warmers winds from the sea flowing through the night. So, we cannot say if the temperature is influenced by the wind or the lockdown. If the winds are calm and then we can study if the temperatures are dropping in the night,” he said. “Also that the maximum amount of gases in the atmosphere are nitrogen and oxygen, while CO2 is very less. So even if there’s a variation in temperatures due to the low pollution, it would be negligible,” he added. The IMD on Wednesday forecast a normal southwest monsoon over the country, while Prof Sridhar Balasubramanian, climate expert from IIT Bombay, said the absence of air pollutants could bring intense pre-monsoon showers in April and May. “Particles suspended in the atmosphere trap the heat and let the clouds evaporate. The absence of aerosols will help clouds hang in for longer,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/puducherry/lockdown-could-impact-temp-bring-pre-monsoon-showers/articleshow/75173785.cms||U Tejonmayam
April 16, 2020||Madurai||Tamil Nadu: Lockdown could impact temperature, bring pre-monsoon showers||CHENNAI: The nationwide lockdown, imposed to control the spread of Covid-19, is also likely to impact the weather, say meteorologists. The drop in pollution levels due to the shutdown of factories and vehicles off road may have an effect on temperatures, particularly at night, and may bring intense pre-monsoon showers in the coming weeks. Y E A Raj, former deputy director general of India Meteorological Department (IMD) said the absence of carbon dioxide and aerosol particles in the air will help radiation from sun go back to space unhindered resulting in the land cooling up faster. “This will result in a drop in temperature. Presumably, lower by 0.5 to one deg C,” he said. “But other factors like the amount of incoming radiation during the day, humidity levels, CO2 and wind direction will also play a role.” But it requires careful analysis of pollutants levels and observational meteorological data for a longer period before and during lockdown to see if there was a change in the weather pattern, he said. IMD director N Puviarasan said clean air could also lead to an increase in day temperature, as the sunlight radiation penetrates earth directly. An earlier IMD forecast said TN was likely to experience normal maximum temperatures with a slight departure from normal, -0.5°C to 0.5°C, between April and June. The average maximum temperatures for the three summer months including May is generally 34°C-37°C. Now, temperatures hovering around a maximum of 35 degrees C and a minimum of 26 degrees C. Factors like wind direction too play a role in daily temperatures. “Right now we have easterly or southeasterly warmers winds from the sea flowing through the night. So, we cannot say if the temperature is influenced by the wind or the lockdown. If the winds are calm and then we can study if the temperatures are dropping in the night,” he said. “Also that the maximum amount of gases in the atmosphere are nitrogen and oxygen, while CO2 is very less. So even if there’s a variation in temperatures due to the low pollution, it would be negligible,” he added. The IMD on Wednesday forecast a normal southwest monsoon over the country, while Prof Sridhar Balasubramanian, climate expert from IIT Bombay, said the absence of air pollutants could bring intense pre-monsoon showers in April and May. “Particles suspended in the atmosphere trap the heat and let the clouds evaporate. The absence of aerosols will help clouds hang in for longer,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/lockdown-could-impact-temp-bring-pre-monsoon-showers/articleshow/75173789.cms||U Tejonmayam
April 16, 2020||Chennai||Tamil Nadu: Lockdown could impact temperature, bring pre-monsoon showers||CHENNAI: The nationwide lockdown, imposed to control the spread of Covid-19, is also likely to impact the weather, say meteorologists. The drop in pollution levels due to the shutdown of factories and vehicles off road may have an effect on temperatures, particularly at night, and may bring intense pre-monsoon showers in the coming weeks. Y E A Raj, former deputy director general of India Meteorological Department (IMD) said the absence of carbon dioxide and aerosol particles in the air will help radiation from sun go back to space unhindered resulting in the land cooling up faster. “This will result in a drop in temperature. Presumably, lower by 0.5 to one deg C,” he said. “But other factors like the amount of incoming radiation during the day, humidity levels, CO2 and wind direction will also play a role.” But it requires careful analysis of pollutants levels and observational meteorological data for a longer period before and during lockdown to see if there was a change in the weather pattern, he said. IMD director N Puviarasan said clean air could also lead to an increase in day temperature, as the sunlight radiation penetrates earth directly. An earlier IMD forecast said TN was likely to experience normal maximum temperatures with a slight departure from normal, -0.5°C to 0.5°C, between April and June. The average maximum temperatures for the three summer months including May is generally 34°C-37°C. Now, temperatures hovering around a maximum of 35 degrees C and a minimum of 26 degrees C. Factors like wind direction too play a role in daily temperatures. “Right now we have easterly or southeasterly warmers winds from the sea flowing through the night. So, we cannot say if the temperature is influenced by the wind or the lockdown. If the winds are calm and then we can study if the temperatures are dropping in the night,” he said. “Also that the maximum amount of gases in the atmosphere are nitrogen and oxygen, while CO2 is very less. So even if there’s a variation in temperatures due to the low pollution, it would be negligible,” he added. The IMD on Wednesday forecast a normal southwest monsoon over the country, while Prof Sridhar Balasubramanian, climate expert from IIT Bombay, said the absence of air pollutants could bring intense pre-monsoon showers in April and May. “Particles suspended in the atmosphere trap the heat and let the clouds evaporate. The absence of aerosols will help clouds hang in for longer,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/lockdown-could-impact-temp-bring-pre-monsoon-showers/articleshow/75169473.cms||U Tejonmayam
April 16, 2020||Bhopal||Madhya Pradesh: MLAs upset over cabinet expansion delay||BHOPAL: The state BJP unit has constituted a task force as a temporary arrangement to help the state government tackle the Covid-19 battle, but many MLAs are upset over delay in the formation of cabinet. There are talks among the senior MLAs that chief minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan must appoint at least a few ministers to help in better planning and implementation of policies at this critical time. But, a decision to form a cabinet is unlikely to be taken before April 20, as the government has hinted to ease down the lockdown period in some covid free areas. BJP state president VD Sharma has recently to a question over delay in cabinet formation clarified that public safety and good health is the party's priority. Most of the MLAs who are lobbying for a berth in the cabinet also believe the same on record though differ unofficially. "Formation of cabinet at the crisis hour is not party's priority. Our priority is public safety and good health. We are fighting a battle against Covid-19 outbreak and it seems that till the crisis is over, decision on the formation of a cabinet should be kept on backburner," BJP MLA from Huzur seat, Rameshwar Sharma told TOI. As per the figures, the BJP has 29 MLAs who were elected first time to the 15th Assembly in 2018. Besides, there are 28 MLAs who were elected second time and 23 elected third time to the assembly. There is also intense lobbying among 11 MLAs with fourth-term, 8 MLAs with fifth term, 5 MLAs with sixth term, 3 MLAs with seventh term and one senior MLA Gopal Bhargava with 8th term in the House. Among these, 18 belong to SC while, 16 are STs. This is almost half of the previous tally during 2013 assembly polls. Sources disclosed that there is an intense lobbying for the berth between MLAs in the party who have completed two and three terms in the House. Several MLAs who have been elected third time and not given a single chance in the cabinet during 15-year BJP rule, have also staked their claim this time. Sources said that almost 10 senior MLAs who had been a part of Shivraj Singh Chouhan team in 2013 will be repeated this time. Six rebel ministers, who are followers of Jyotiraditya Scindia are also sure to get a berth. For remaining seats, BJP is likely to witness an intense lobbying from within the party.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/mlas-upset-over-cabinet-expansion-delay/articleshow/75169463.cms||---
April 16, 2020||Indore||CBSE may conduct exams of the main subjects only||Indore: Central Board of Secondary Education (CBSE) will conduct examinations for only main subjects that will be required for promotion or are considered crucial for admissions to higher educational institutions (HEIs). Considering that the timetable cannot be declared due to the present situation, the board has decided to give notice of about 10 days to all stakeholders before starting board examination. For remaining subjects, board will issue separate instructions for marking, assessment. After getting several queries from students on helpline numbers, the board has answered some of the questions related to higher secondary classes. “We have still been getting three to four calls on a regular basis from students regarding the examination and promotion,” helpline counsellor of CBSE, Jaydeb Kar told TOI. Several students of Class 10 had asked about the examination of language subjects taken as sixth subject as it may affect the admissions for Class 11, the board has decided not to conduct the exam, but it is making provisions to prepare the result for these subjects. Students of Class 12 who are interested to appear in competitive examinations had been enquiring about marks of the subjects that will not be conducted as it might hamper the standard marks. “The system of assessment for declaring results will be worked out by the board shortly and the schools will be informed. Board has ensured that the interest of students will be protected,” said Kar. Students of Class nine and 11 asked if they can be promoted to the next class like the students of classes one to eight stating that mostly students study only for the annual examination. However, the board has disagreed. It stated that there is a system of continuous internal assessment in most of the subjects by the schools besides the term exams at regular intervals in which the students are assessed. Those schools that were unable to conduct the examination of Class nine and 11 will be promoted to the next classes. However, the promotion policy will not be applicable on the students of classes nine and 11 whose results have been declared prior to the lockdown.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/indore/cbse-may-conduct-exams-of-the-main-subjects-only/articleshow/75169468.cms||---
April 16, 2020||Nagpur||111 cases, 4 deaths but only 1 needed ventilator support in Vidarbha||Nagpur: New confirmed positive cases of covid-19 are getting reported every day in Vidarbha region. Especially in last three days, the number has nearly doubled and crossed the 100-mark on April 14. On Wednesday, Vidarbha has reported two new cases taking total number of cases in region to 111. A comparative data analyses can, however, bring a sigh of relief for us. Out of the eleven districts in the region, four are completely free from covid-19. Chandrapur, Bhandara, Gadchiroli and Wardha still don’t have any positive cases. It’s not that these districts are not testing samples of suspected patients. Together, they have tested more than 400 samples till date, but none of them has been tested positive. Some results are pending. The recovery rate of patients is also good in Vidarbha. Since the first patient was found in region on March 10, total 16 have recovered and discharged till date. These include 12 from Nagpur, 3 from Yavatmal and 1 from Gondia. Overall rate of cure and recovery in Vidarbha is 14.51% of total cases which is way better than 6.64% of Maharashtra state and 13% of India’s total recovery rate. It has been noticed that asymptomatic carriers of novel coronavirus recover faster. At present, 91 active cases of covid-19 are taking treatment in six districts of Vidarbha and 85 of them are asymptomatic — means they don’t have any complaints like high fever or respiratory illness. Till date, only one patient in Yavatmal who is 80 years of age, needed ventilator support. This patient is also stable now. In Nagpur, even a paralytic man, 45, recovered from Covid-19 and was discharged on Tuesday. One patient in Nagpur was having high sugar and hypertension problems but he also recovered and was discharged. A 60-year-old woman also made a recovery and was discharged from Nagpur. All these examples show that people of all age groups, if identified early, can recover from Covid-19. Out of total active cases, 18 patients are below 30 years of age and 40 are between 31 and 60 years. Seven are above 60, but most of them are having no serious ailments. According to doctors, most of these patients have all chances to recover. There are four deaths in Vidarbha, but none of these were detected as Covid-19 positive before their death. All four were admitted as suspects and their samples were collected as they were showing symptoms. Their samples were tested positive after their death. No patient, admitted in isolation as confirmed positive has died till date in Vidarbha.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/111-cases-4-deaths-but-only-1-needed-ventilator-support-in-vidarbha/articleshow/75169487.cms||Chaitanya Deshpande
April 16, 2020||Trichy||Man arrested for social media post on Muslims||Trichy: A social media post asking people to avoid getting groceries and vegetables from shops run by Muslims has landed a 32-year-old man from Pudukottai in jail. The accused, identified as K Karthik from Mangalakovil was arrested by the Karambakudi police for the post that was circulated on social media. According to police, Karthik in his message cautioned people to stay away from Muslims alleging that members of the community were in contact with attendees of the Tablighi Jamaat conference in Delhi. Since there are many shops run by Muslims in Karambakudi, he asked people to keep off these shops to prevent themselves from contracting Covid-19. Many Muslim organisations and political parties had lodged police complaints seeking action against those who spread such fake messages on social media to malign the community. After carrying out an investigation, police found out that it was Karthik who was behind the post. He was arrested on Wednesday and was booked under section 67 of the IT Act (publishing or transmitting obscene material in electronic form) and section of the Disaster Management Act 2005 and Section 500 of the IPC (defamation).||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/man-arrested-for-social-media-post-on-muslims/articleshow/75170257.cms||---
April 16, 2020||Jaipur||Section 144 extended in city||Curfew was imposed in few areas of Moti Doongri and Tranport Nagar police station areas on Wednesday after positive cases of coronavirus were reported. Also Section 144 was extended in the entire city till further orders. The order which was issued from 5 pm on Wednesday prohibits movement of people outside their houses. Barring emergency health services, all commercial establishments will remain closed in the area. Hospitals and medical stores will remain open. All religious places will remain closed till Section 144 remains imposed. However, authorities of religious places have been permitted to depute a minimum staff of five for cleaning the premises. There will be a blanket ban on the movement of vehicles in the aforesaid areas.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/section-144-extended-in-city/articleshow/75170252.cms||---
April 16, 2020||Erode||Tamil Nadu: Lockdown could impact temperature, bring pre-monsoon showers||CHENNAI: The nationwide lockdown, imposed to control the spread of Covid-19, is also likely to impact the weather, say meteorologists. The drop in pollution levels due to the shutdown of factories and vehicles off road may have an effect on temperatures, particularly at night, and may bring intense pre-monsoon showers in the coming weeks. Y E A Raj, former deputy director general of India Meteorological Department (IMD) said the absence of carbon dioxide and aerosol particles in the air will help radiation from sun go back to space unhindered resulting in the land cooling up faster. “This will result in a drop in temperature. Presumably, lower by 0.5 to one deg C,” he said. “But other factors like the amount of incoming radiation during the day, humidity levels, CO2 and wind direction will also play a role.” But it requires careful analysis of pollutants levels and observational meteorological data for a longer period before and during lockdown to see if there was a change in the weather pattern, he said. IMD director N Puviarasan said clean air could also lead to an increase in day temperature, as the sunlight radiation penetrates earth directly. An earlier IMD forecast said TN was likely to experience normal maximum temperatures with a slight departure from normal, -0.5°C to 0.5°C, between April and June. The average maximum temperatures for the three summer months including May is generally 34°C-37°C. Now, temperatures hovering around a maximum of 35 degrees C and a minimum of 26 degrees C. Factors like wind direction too play a role in daily temperatures. “Right now we have easterly or southeasterly warmers winds from the sea flowing through the night. So, we cannot say if the temperature is influenced by the wind or the lockdown. If the winds are calm and then we can study if the temperatures are dropping in the night,” he said. “Also that the maximum amount of gases in the atmosphere are nitrogen and oxygen, while CO2 is very less. So even if there’s a variation in temperatures due to the low pollution, it would be negligible,” he added. The IMD on Wednesday forecast a normal southwest monsoon over the country, while Prof Sridhar Balasubramanian, climate expert from IIT Bombay, said the absence of air pollutants could bring intense pre-monsoon showers in April and May. “Particles suspended in the atmosphere trap the heat and let the clouds evaporate. The absence of aerosols will help clouds hang in for longer,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/erode/lockdown-could-impact-temp-bring-pre-monsoon-showers/articleshow/75173788.cms||U Tejonmayam
April 16, 2020||Coimbatore||Tamil Nadu: Lockdown could impact temperature, bring pre-monsoon showers||CHENNAI: The nationwide lockdown, imposed to control the spread of Covid-19, is also likely to impact the weather, say meteorologists. The drop in pollution levels due to the shutdown of factories and vehicles off road may have an effect on temperatures, particularly at night, and may bring intense pre-monsoon showers in the coming weeks. Y E A Raj, former deputy director general of India Meteorological Department (IMD) said the absence of carbon dioxide and aerosol particles in the air will help radiation from sun go back to space unhindered resulting in the land cooling up faster. “This will result in a drop in temperature. Presumably, lower by 0.5 to one deg C,” he said. “But other factors like the amount of incoming radiation during the day, humidity levels, CO2 and wind direction will also play a role.” But it requires careful analysis of pollutants levels and observational meteorological data for a longer period before and during lockdown to see if there was a change in the weather pattern, he said. IMD director N Puviarasan said clean air could also lead to an increase in day temperature, as the sunlight radiation penetrates earth directly. An earlier IMD forecast said TN was likely to experience normal maximum temperatures with a slight departure from normal, -0.5°C to 0.5°C, between April and June. The average maximum temperatures for the three summer months including May is generally 34°C-37°C. Now, temperatures hovering around a maximum of 35 degrees C and a minimum of 26 degrees C. Factors like wind direction too play a role in daily temperatures. “Right now we have easterly or southeasterly warmers winds from the sea flowing through the night. So, we cannot say if the temperature is influenced by the wind or the lockdown. If the winds are calm and then we can study if the temperatures are dropping in the night,” he said. “Also that the maximum amount of gases in the atmosphere are nitrogen and oxygen, while CO2 is very less. So even if there’s a variation in temperatures due to the low pollution, it would be negligible,” he added. The IMD on Wednesday forecast a normal southwest monsoon over the country, while Prof Sridhar Balasubramanian, climate expert from IIT Bombay, said the absence of air pollutants could bring intense pre-monsoon showers in April and May. “Particles suspended in the atmosphere trap the heat and let the clouds evaporate. The absence of aerosols will help clouds hang in for longer,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/lockdown-could-impact-temp-bring-pre-monsoon-showers/articleshow/75173786.cms||U Tejonmayam
April 16, 2020||Salem||Tamil Nadu: Lockdown could impact temperature, bring pre-monsoon showers||CHENNAI: The nationwide lockdown, imposed to control the spread of Covid-19, is also likely to impact the weather, say meteorologists. The drop in pollution levels due to the shutdown of factories and vehicles off road may have an effect on temperatures, particularly at night, and may bring intense pre-monsoon showers in the coming weeks. Y E A Raj, former deputy director general of India Meteorological Department (IMD) said the absence of carbon dioxide and aerosol particles in the air will help radiation from sun go back to space unhindered resulting in the land cooling up faster. “This will result in a drop in temperature. Presumably, lower by 0.5 to one deg C,” he said. “But other factors like the amount of incoming radiation during the day, humidity levels, CO2 and wind direction will also play a role.” But it requires careful analysis of pollutants levels and observational meteorological data for a longer period before and during lockdown to see if there was a change in the weather pattern, he said. IMD director N Puviarasan said clean air could also lead to an increase in day temperature, as the sunlight radiation penetrates earth directly. An earlier IMD forecast said TN was likely to experience normal maximum temperatures with a slight departure from normal, -0.5°C to 0.5°C, between April and June. The average maximum temperatures for the three summer months including May is generally 34°C-37°C. Now, temperatures hovering around a maximum of 35 degrees C and a minimum of 26 degrees C. Factors like wind direction too play a role in daily temperatures. “Right now we have easterly or southeasterly warmers winds from the sea flowing through the night. So, we cannot say if the temperature is influenced by the wind or the lockdown. If the winds are calm and then we can study if the temperatures are dropping in the night,” he said. “Also that the maximum amount of gases in the atmosphere are nitrogen and oxygen, while CO2 is very less. So even if there’s a variation in temperatures due to the low pollution, it would be negligible,” he added. The IMD on Wednesday forecast a normal southwest monsoon over the country, while Prof Sridhar Balasubramanian, climate expert from IIT Bombay, said the absence of air pollutants could bring intense pre-monsoon showers in April and May. “Particles suspended in the atmosphere trap the heat and let the clouds evaporate. The absence of aerosols will help clouds hang in for longer,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/salem/lockdown-could-impact-temp-bring-pre-monsoon-showers/articleshow/75173793.cms||U Tejonmayam
April 16, 2020||Indore||Power usage up 40% as Indoreans stay indoors||Indore: A prolonged lockdown as a result of Covid-19 outbreak has led to a spike in domestic electric consumption with per day usage rising as much as 40 per cent. Lockdown confining people at home as a safety precaution to combat pandemic has led to increased usage of electrical appliances resulting in higher consumption. According to discom, average daily electricity consumption in households of Indore has gone up to 63 lakh units as against an average of 45 lakh units per day in the pre lockdown period. Madhya Pradesh Paschim Kshetra Vidyut Vitaran Company Limited managing director Vikas Narwal said, “Electricity demand in households has seen a jump. In Indore city, electricity consumption has jumped by 8 lakh unit in just a week.” Data on daily electricity consumption by discom, showed a vertical trend in domestic consumption in the lockdown period as against normal months. On April 14, domestic electricity consumption in Indore city stood at 63 lakh units as against 50 lakh units recorded on April 1, according to discom. From April 1 to April 5, domestic electricity consumption hovered around 50 lakh units to 52 lakh units while there was a sudden jump in demand from the second week of the month with highest consumption recorded at 63 lakh unit on April 14. According to discom, domestic electricity consumption in the region including Indore, Dewas, Dhar, Ratlam, Khandwa, Khargone and Burhanpur among other cities in the western zone rose to 1.80 crore unit as on April 14 as against 1.50 crore unit on March 14. Rise in temperature is further anticipated to shoot electricity consumption. Narwal said, “We are all equipped to cater to the rising demand. Our 400 officials are working during pandemic in Indore city with round the clock services.” On the contrary, industrial consumption has declined by over 200 megawatt due to closed business premises and factories. Industrial consumption by HT users has dropped to 279 megawatt as on April 14 in comparison to 567 megawatt on March 14.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/indore/power-usage-up-40-as-indoreans-stay-indoors/articleshow/75169481.cms||---
April 16, 2020||Hyderabad||Telangana ready to conduct tests on any number of people: KCR||HYDERABAD: After the Centre released a list of hotspots (red zones) and non-hotspots for Covid-19 cases, officials in Telangana pointed out that Centre did not talk about the districts which do not have a single case till now in Telangana. The Centre announced Suryapet, Adilabad, Mahbubnagar, Kamareddy, Vikarabad, Sangareddy, Medak, Khammam, Bhadradri-Kothagudem, Jagtial, Jangaon, Jayashankar-Bhupalpally, Kumarambheem-Asifabad, Mulugu, Peddapally, Nagarkurnool, Mahabubabad, Rajanana-Sircilla and Siddipet districts as non-hotspots. “The containment exercise will be deemed over when there is no case reported in 28 days from an area after the last case tests negative. Hotspots (red zones) will be assumed to be undertaking effective containment if no case is reported in next 14 days (designated as orange zone) and deemed successful in containment if no case is reported for 28 days (designated as green zone),” secretary of the ministry of health and family welfare said in his order to the states. Meanwhile, chief minister K Chandrasekhar Rao declared that the government was ready to conduct tests on any number of people and offer treatment to Covid-19 patients. He made it clear that as per the Centre’s guidelines, strict lockdown would continue till April 20. “Later, based on the circumstances, changes will be brought about,” the CM said. KCR held a high-level review meeting with health minister Eatala Rajender and other officials on Wednesday. “We have adequate kits to conduct tests. There is no scarcity of PPE kits in the state. We have 2.25 lakh PPE kits and the number will reach 10 lakh PPE kits soon,” he said. “Besides this, ventilators, medical equipment and every paraphernalia are ready. Nearly 20,000 beds are kept ready and even if Covid-19 patients increase to one lakh, the government has made all arrangements for their treatment,” KCR said. The CM said except health and municipal administration ministers, other ministers and MLAs should remain in their districts, constituencies and monitor the situation.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/t-ready-to-conduct-tests-on-any-number-of-people-kcr/articleshow/75169470.cms||Koride Mahesh
April 16, 2020||Mangaluru||Man booked for violating lockdown||Mangaluru: Dakshina Kannada district police have booked a man for violating the lockdown, and sent him to a hospital to be quarantined, on Wednesday. According to police, Mohammed Ashraf, a resident of Pudu village, who works in Mallapuram in Kerala, had managed to reach his home by taking a ride in a goods truck on April 11. After reaching Bantwal, he was staying at his relatives’ home in Sajipamuda village. The jurisdictional police station received a complaint about the same, and the police then went to the house he was staying in, and took him to the hospital to be quarantined. He was also booked under Indian Penal Code sections 269 and 270. A case has been registered at the Bantwal Town police station in this regard.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mangaluru/man-booked-for-violating-lockdown/articleshow/75165148.cms||---
April 16, 2020||Trichy||Neurologist offers online consultation for free till May 3||TRICHY: A city-based neurologist has come forward to facilitate with free tele-consultation to patients with neurological disorders to help them during the lockdown. Dr M A Aleem, a senior neurologist and a former vice-principal of KAP Viswanatham government medical college (KAPVGMC) in Trichy, has asked people to contact him round-the-clock on 9944241270 for any neurological complaint till May 3. He can be contacted on WhatsApp video call on this number. “People already went through the 21-day lockdown. Now, it has been extended further to contain the spread of Covid-19. I feel it should not affect the people with neurological disorders in getting the treatment. That’s what prompted me to provide the service to the people,” Dr Aleem told TOI. The doctor said that several patients with neurological disorders were unable to continue with their medication during the lockdown as the patients stayed indoors.tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/neurologist-offers-onlineconsultation-for-free-till-may-3/articleshow/75170265.cms||---
April 16, 2020||Jaipur||Two held, one detained for trying to enter Ramganj||JAIPUR: The city police have arrested two youths and detained one juvenile who came from Delhi and were trying to enter Ramganj in Jaipur. According to officials, the trio rode on a single bike. They belong to Jaipur and were apparently trying to meet their relatives in the curfew area of Ramganj which has reported a high number of coronavirus cases. The arrested youths were identified as Vishal Yadav (29) and Raja Dacot (23). “The youths had come from Delhi and were trying to enter Ramganj. When they saw the police check point, they turned the bike around. When cops tried to stop them, they took off and after we gave chase, we managed to catch all three on the bike,” said an official of Manak Chowk police station who were the ones to catch the accused. They were arrested not only for violation of lockdown but also trying to enter Ramganj where strict curfew has been imposed to prevent the spread of coronavirus. Police have deployed 4,500 police personnel in Walled City, which is under strict curfew with no residents being allowed to go out of the area. Additionally, two police personnel are escorting every medical team.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/two-held-one-detained-for-trying-to-enter-ramganj/articleshow/75170259.cms||---
April 16, 2020||Jaipur||Bring 11 hotspot dists from red to green zone: Centre||JAIPUR: The state has a daunting task ahead to convert the 11 hotspot districts from red zone to green zone. In a letter by the ministry of health and family welfare to the chief secretary, the Centre has requested the state to utilise thee extended lockdown period to convert the hotspots (red) to orange and then to green zones. Having been recognised for its ‘ruthless’ containment model implemented in Bhilwara at the national level, the state government is taking it as a challenge to turn its hotspots into green zones in the coming days. “We are not deterred by the high number of positive cases detected in Jaipur’s Ramganj area. We are testing to the maximum possible extent. Our recovery rate is one of the highest and the mortality rate is one of the lowest in the country and stands at less than two per cent now. With ruthless containment and smart testing, we hope to convert the red zones into orange and green in the near future,” said Rohit Kumar Singh, additional chief secretary (health). The state will utilise the extended lockdown period till May 3 to contain the spread of Covid-19. The Centre has appealed all the states to utilise this period effectively to put efforts for implementing containment measures in a focused manner. “As of now, based on reported cases, the districts can be classified as hotspots, non-hotspots and districts which have not reported positive cases,” says the letter by Preeti Sudan, secretary, ministry of health and family welfare. The exercise of identification of hotspots has to be done on a weekly basis (every Monday), says the Centre, while advocating that strict containment measures need to be implemented in the hotspots.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/bring-11-hotspot-dists-from-red-to-green-zone-centre/articleshow/75170262.cms||---
April 16, 2020||Goa||One more Covid-19 patient recovers, only one positive in Goa||PANAJI: The number of active Covid-19 cases in Goa now stands at one. Of the two patients, who were under treatment, one has been cured, health minister Vishwajit Rane said on Wednesday evening. The lone patient continues to be under treatment in Margao. “Goa to lead the way! Happy to announce that Goa’s active Covid-19 cases are down from 2 to 1, after following due protocol. As per the guideline, a repeat sample was tested and reported negative,” Rane said. Congratulating the team of doctors and staff led by Dr Edwin Gomes for their wonderful job, the health minister exuded confidence that by next week Goa will have zero positive cases. This is the sixth patient to have be cured. Since March, seven cases of Covid-19 were detected in Goa. Four of the cured patients are presently lodged at a resort where they are undergoing the mandatory 14-day quarantine, while one person, who completed seven days in facility quarantine, has been sent home. He will, however, have to remain in home quarantine for another seven days. Of 81 samples pending testing, 20 tested negative and 61 reports were awaited at the end of the day, stated the health bulletin released by the Directorate of Health Services (DHS) on Wednesday. Only one patient was admitted in the isolation ward of Goa Medical College on Wednesday increasing the total patients in isolation to six.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/one-more-covid-19-patient-recovers-only-1-ve-in-goa/articleshow/75170137.cms||---
April 16, 2020||Jaipur||Covid-19 claims 2 more lives in Rajasthan; 30 cases in Jaipur, total count at 1,076||JAIPUR: Covid-19 claimed two more lives in the state on Wednesday taking the death toll to 13. This comes on a day Rajasthan recorded 71 positive cases, including 30 from Jaipur. The total number of cases now stands at 1,076. Both the deceased were women and diabetic. While the Jaipur resident was 65 years old, the Kota woman was 70 years. According to health department officials, so far five deaths have been reported from Jaipur, two from Bhilwara and Kota and one each in Tonk, Bikaner, Alwar and Jodhpur. “The Jaipur patient, who was a diabetic, died at SMS Hospital here. She was a native of Phuta Kurra in the Walled City,” Rohit Kumar Singh, additional chief secretary (health) said. The Kota woman too was diabetic and had tested positive recently. She was a native of Bhimganj Mandi. Of the 30 cases reported from the city, 13 were from Ramganj locality. “With the inclusion of these 13 cases in Ramganj, the total number of infected people from the area has risen to 318 out of the total 483 cases in Jaipur,” said a senior officer. So far, cases have been detected in Koyala Wali Gali, Mehro Ka Raasta, Nayakon ka Mohalla, Jaganath Shah Ka Raasta, New Madina Majjid and Char Darwaja in the Walled City of Jaipur. “We also have cases from Sethi Colony, Raja Park, Sanjay Nagar and C-scheme in Jaipur,” said an officer. “We have been focusing on the entire Walled City especially Ramganj in addition to areas such as Raja Park,” said an officer. Besides Jaipur, 27 cases were reported from Kota, 10 from Jodhpur and one each from Dausa, Jhunjhunu, Tonk and Nagaur. So far, the health department has collected 37,860 samples out of which 1,076 have turned out positive, 31,902 negative and results of 4,882 cases awaited. “In addition, 147 positive cases have now turned negative and 74 patients have been discharged,” said an officer.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/covid-19-claims-2-more-lives-in-raj-30-cases-in-city-total-count-at-1076/articleshow/75170266.cms||Ashish Mehta
April 16, 2020||Mumbai||G-South, E and D wards have 36% of Mumbai’s Covid-19 positive patients||MUMBAI: The G-South Ward that comprises Worli, Prabhadevi and Lower Parel recorded 52 new Covid-19 cases on Tuesday, whereas its adjoining E Ward (Byculla and Mazgaon) added 10 cases and D (Malabar Hill and Girgaon) 23. Till Tuesday, G-South had reported 360 cases, the highest in the city, followed by E at 135 and D 130. Of the total 130 cases in D Ward, 35 are staff members of Bhatia Hospital and 24 of Jaslok Hospital. The three adjoining wards reported 36% of the total 1,753 cases in the city till Tuesday. Most cases in G-South Ward are from Worli Koliwada, Janta Colony, Jijamata Nagar and BDD Chawl. In E and D, the cases are spread all over. Meanwhile, a positive case was reported in a chawl in D Ward, following which BMC shifted all high-risk contacts to a quarantine unit in a hotel. An official said the patient is the brother of a man admitted to Bhatia.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/g-south-e-d-wards-have-36-of-citys-ve-patients/articleshow/75169541.cms||Vijay V Singh
April 16, 2020||Indore||12K kg Covid waste disposed in city till April 14||Indore: Indore with highest number of Covid-19 patients in the state has incinerated over 12,000 kg of hazardous biomedical waste, according to Madhya Pradesh Pollution Control Board. According to the data released by regional PCB after conducting inspections of hospitals, isolation wards and quarantine centres, around 12,559 kg of Covod-19 bio medical waste has been collected and incinerated as on April 14. PCB regional officer R K Gupta said, “As Covid-19 patients are increasing, biomedical waste is growing. We are regularly inspecting all centres to keep a close eye on collection and disposal of bio medical waste. Close to 12,559 kg of waste has already been disposed of scientifically in the incinerator.” On Wednesday, a team of officials from regional PCB office conducted inspection at Gokuldas hospital, Vishesh hospital, Index Medical College, Suyash hospital and Prashanti hospital among a few other quarantine centres to check collection and storage of biomedical waste. These hospitals were found collecting biomedical waste in yellow bin as directed by Central Pollution Control Board guideline and waste was sent to the incinerator facility. The inspection team suggested hospitals to dispose hazardous waste such as PPE kits, masks and other discarded items in double layer yellow bags to avoid any probability of spreading infection from discarded medical supplies. Looking at the increasing waste, additional vehicles have been deployed for collection and transportation of biomedical waste. A total of 5 vehicles have been designated in the city to collect bio medical waste from various sources, said pollution control board.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/indore/12k-kg-covid-waste-disposed-in-city-till-april-14/articleshow/75169493.cms||---
April 16, 2020||Trichy||Tamil Nadu: 95 cured Covid-19 patients sent home in central districts||TRICHY: The central region of the state has something to cheer on Wednesday in the fight against Covid-19 as 95 patients were discharged from hospitals in Trichy and Karur districts after recovery. Meanwhile, ten new positive cases were admitted to hospitals in the delta districts on Wednesday. A new born baby born to a Covid-19 infected woman tested negative. As many as 61 of the 69 Tablighi Jamaat delegates quarantined at Jamal Mohammed College (JMC) in Trichy since April 5 tested negative for Covid-19 in the swab tests. Trichy district administration said that doctors have been monitoring the quarantined people constantly. None of them tested positive in the first round of tests in the beginning of April. Yet, they were kept in quarantine as mandated by the protocol. Since they tested negative in the laboratory tests now, they were sent back to their homes. They were told to be in home quarantine for 14 days, said Trichy collector S Sivarasu in a statement. Mahatma Gandhi Memorial Government Hospital (MGMGH) so far had 43 positive cases from Trichy district, all TJ delegates, their family members and relatives. Sources said that the hospital administration had taken swabs of many positive patients at the hospital for the second round of testing. Karur discharged 26 patients on Wednesday.  While 21 of them were from Dindigul, four were from Namakkal and one from Karur. The hospital also sent home eight patients who tested negative. In total, 34 patients left the hospital on Wednesday. A new born baby boy born to a 32-year-old Covid-19 positive woman at Thanjavur on April 7 tested negative on Monday. The woman was a family member of a TJ delegate. Seven new positive cases were reported in Nagappattinam taking the total count to 41, all of them are close contacts of the TJ delegates. They were admitted to the Government Medical College in Tiruvarur. In Thanjavur, a 62-year-old man from Athirampattinam tested positive. He was a close contact of a TJ delegate who tested negative. Thanjavur had 16 positive cases so far. In Tiruvarur, two more close contacts of TJ delegates also tested positive. The total of number of positive cases is 18.With Wednesday’s cases, the total number of Covid-19 patients in the central region has climbed to 160. (With inputs from D Vincent Arockiaraj)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/95-cured-patients-sent-home-in-central-dists/articleshow/75170261.cms||---
April 16, 2020||Vadodara||Vadodara: Migrant UP workers stay put at Savli, make masks||VADODARA: When migrant workers gathered in Surat and Mumbai to go home, it set off alarm bells here too. But at this high-end carpet manufacturing unit, there is no panic and workers are making masks for free distribution. When lockdown was announced and transport services came to a halt, there were around 200 workers at the export-oriented unit in Savli of Vadodara district. The unit of the US-based Perennials and Sutherland LLC employs around 325 people. While 50 of them are local residents, the remaining are carpet artisans from Uttar Pradesh. “We are heavily dependent on workers from UP as they are experts in making carpets. Out of around 275 workers from UP, 75 had gone to UP to celebrate Holi. The remaining were staying in our residential complex near the plant,” said Amol Biniwale, MD of Perennials India.  “We do not sew anything at the unit and the workers are also not experts at this. We identified a handful of workers who could operate sewing machines. The machines were supplied by one of our associates and raw material was obtained,” said Biniwale. The company set up a small unit with seven sewing machines. It will be supplying 50,000 masks to Vadodara Municipal Corporation (VMC) for free. The first lot of 1,000 masks was handed over the civic body on Tuesday. “We have suggested that VMC give these masks to whoever is spotted without a mask on the road. The person should be fined and then handed over the mask,” said Biniwale. VMC has decided to slap a fine of Rs1,000 to those not wearing face masks .||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/migrant-up-workers-stay-put-at-savli-make-masks/articleshow/75166596.cms||Sachin Sharma
April 16, 2020||Jaipur||Ramganj divided into 13 zones, sealed||JAIPUR: To ensure full compliance of curfew and check Covid-19, one-km area of Ramganj has been divided into 13 zones and is completely sealed. On Wednesday, Rajasthan Armed constabulary (RAC) and state disaster relief force (SDRF) reached Ramganj to ensure no movement in the area. Also, free distribution of food and grocery was started by district administration to ensure people do not come out of their houses. From these 13 zones, the process of shifting elderly, sick and interested persons to large-scale quarantine centres has also been started. “Apart from sealing the area, arrangements for ration etc. have been made for the residents here. 2,000 kg of flour, pulses, rice, oil, spices, etc. are being provided free of cost to about 8 thousand households in the area so that the people living here do not have any problem. Milk, vegetables etc. will also be delivered from house to house on e-rickshaws,” said an officer. As the state government has shifted its focus from Bhilwara to Jaipur, the RAC, a unit of Rajasthan police, is all set to facilitate Jaipur police in ensuring full compliance of curfew. RAC has floated a ‘medical team’ of policemen who have a prior training in medical and healthcare especially in nursing and pharmaceuticals. Members of this team have started working at different quarantine centres.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/ramganj-divided-into-13-zones-sealed/articleshow/75170271.cms||Ashish Mehta
April 16, 2020||Bhopal||BMHRC takeover blunder: Not a single patient, but five Covid-19 deaths||BHOPAL: The death of five Bhopal gas tragedy victims from coronavirus infection -- without being able to step into the hospital meant to give them free treatment -- has turned the spotlight on the administrative blunder that led to the takeover of BMHRC and a U-turn on that order without even a single patient, covid or otherwise, being admitted in the threeweek period. The ‘de-reserving’ of BMHRC came too late for Naresh Khatik, Jagannath Maithil, Imran, Rajkumar Yadav and Ashfaq Nadvi, who died without being able to avail treatment at the hospital. The first of these deaths happened on April 7, yet the administration waited a week – during which four others died – before revoking the order. The takeover of BMHRC yielded no benefit either in the battle against coronavirus or for gas victims. To make it worse, the six gas relief hospitals run by the state government also allegedly turned away BMHRC beneficiaries. Activists say the families of Khatik and Yadav had taken them to two of these hospitals, but they were turned away. One died in a private hospital and the other on the way to state-run Hamidia Hospital. In the fog of coronavirus war, gas victims have turned into collateral casualties. Activists point out that this could have been avoided. What was the logic behind taking over a hospital exclusively meant for gas victims, keeping it in readiness for Covid-19 patients, training doctors and paramedical staff on use of PPEs and coronavirus treatment protocol, and then handing it back for treatment of gas victims without admitting a single corona patient? Asked about this, health commissioner Faiz Ahmed Kidwai, who was appointed around a week after the takeover of BMHRC, said: “The hospital was dropped from the list of those designated for Covid-19 patients because some gas victims, who were undergoing treatment there, had been discharged before it was taken over by the district administration. Gas victims were demanding that the hospital should be restored for their treatment. Hence, it was decided to drop it from the list of hospitals earmarked for coronavirus patients.” Activists say gas victims went through a nightmare during the three-week closure period. “The guard at the (BMHRC) gate used to decide whether there was an emergency with a patient,” said Rachna Dhingra, co-convener of Bhopal Group for Information & Action, who has filed a petition in high court against the takeover. “There was no logic (to the takeover). They, perhaps, thought that if both gas victims and Covid-patients are allowed in the hospital, there would be a rush and social distancing would be violated. So, they restricted entry of all gas victims, except for those suffering from flu-like symptoms and emergency patients. OPD patients at the hospital, who numbered 1,200 patients daily, dropped to 200,” said Dhingra. What made things worse for gas victims, six state-run hospitals meant for them also shut their doors soon after BMHRC’s takeover on March 23, said the activist. “They opened only on Wednesday -- after the order to take over BMHRC was revoked. So, they were not treating gas victims during this period, either,” she said. Yadav had gone to Rasool Ahmed Siddiqui Pulmonary Centre in Jinsi (Bhopal) but was denied treatment, Dhingra alleged. However, Dr Ravi Verma, chief medical and health officer of gas relief hospitals, denied the charge and said though there were fewer patients due to the lockdown, the OPDs were operating. “We have all the records for this,” he said. Asked about Yadav, he said: “An inquiry was conducted into the allegation but it was found that the doctor on duty had sent him to Hamidia Hospital in an ambulance because he was complaining of chest pain.” Dhingra reminded the government that gas victims need extra care because their immune systems and vital organs are already weakened. “After the death of five gas victims due to Covid-19, the administration seems to have realized what we had been telling them since the outbreak. Save the gas victims, they are more vulnerable to the infection than any other group,” she remarked, suggesting that BMHRC should now call up all the gas-victim patients of hypertension, diabetes, kidney dysfunction, cancer and pulmonary disorder and test them for Covid-19 so that they can be saved if they have contracted the infection.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/bmhrc-takeover-blunder-not-a-single-patient-but-5-covid-deaths/articleshow/75169499.cms||---
April 16, 2020||Thiruvananthapuram||Just one new case, seven recoveries||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM: In Kerala, only one Covid-19 case (Kannur) was reported on Wednesday, taking the total number of cases to 387. At the same time, seven more people tested negative for the virus. Among the positive cases, 264 came from other nations/states. Eight were foreigners and 114 persons contracted the disease due to direct contact with patients, said chief minister Pinarayi Vijayan. As of now 218 patients have recovered and Kerala has the highest recovery rate in the country. At present, 167 people are undergoing treatment in various hospitals, he added. As many as 97,464 persons are under observation, of which 522 are admitted in designated isolation wards of various hospitals. So far 16,745 samples were sent for testing and 16,002 tested negative. On Tuesday (April 14), eight new cases were reported in state; four in Kannur, three in Kozhikode and one in Kasaragod. Among them, five came from Dubai and the rest got the infection from direct contact with patients. Meanwhile, 13 patients recovered on Tuesday. Six were from Kasaragod, two each from Ernakulam and Palakkad and one each from Kollam, Thrissur and Malappuram. Addressing the media after review meeting, the chief minister said that in all districts, special facilities have been made available for cancer patients. Due to restrictions imposed, these patients are unable to travel to regional cancer centre. Since the cancer patients have low immunity, Covid-19 might result in serious health issues. Hence a decision was taken to ensure their treatment in district and general hospitals. In 21 state hospitals, there will be facilities for the cancer treatment and health records of patients, undergoing treatment at RCC, will be made available at these hospitals. There will be tele-conferencing facility for doctors at these hospitals to have discussion with specialists at RCC. Chemotherapy, follow-up treatment and palliative care facilities will be made available at these hospitals. Kerala Medical Services Corporation will supply necessary drugs to these hospitals, said health minister KK Shailaja. Meanwhile, a 25-member medical team from Kottayam MCH left for Kasaragod to help healthcare workers. Already a 26-member team from Thiruvananthapuram MCH is already serving Kasaragod MCH.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/thiruvananthapuram/just-1-new-case-seven-recoveries/articleshow/75166515.cms||---
April 16, 2020||Hyderabad||Silver lining? Only six new positive cases in Telangana||HYDERABAD: For the first time in past one week, Telangana reported single-digit fresh coronavirus positive cases with only six samples testing positive on Wednesday. For the past few days, the state has reported more than 30 cases. According to health department bulletin, eight persons were discharged and the number of positive cases touched 650, which include 514 active cases, 118 discharges and 18 deaths. Among districts, greater Hyderabad reported highest 337 positive, 51 in Nizamabad, 21 in Rangareddy and 25 cases in Warangal (Urban). Health minister Eatala Rajender said 128 people, who completed isolation period and treatment, would be discharged on Thursday. The minister said 259 containment centres have been opened in the state and are being managed effectively.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/silver-lining-only-6-new-ve-cases-in-t/articleshow/75169516.cms||---
April 16, 2020||Trichy||Colour-coded passes to be issued to restrict people’s movement||Thanjavur: The district administration has began to roll out colour-coded passes for residents of 51 wards in the city to control the movement of people on the streets during the lockdown period. The passes printed in blue, green and pink colours will be issued to the residents. Those receiving the green passes can venture out and purchase essentials on Monday and Thursdays while those who get blue passes can come on Tuesdays and Fridays. Residents provided with pink cards can only shop on Wednesdays and Saturdays.People coming out to purchase the goods should possess their passes along with their Aadhar card. Those found violating the rule would be barred from venturing out and their passes would be taken back. The plan has already been successfully implemented in Ariyalur and parts of Trichy district.As many as 16 patients have been treated at isolation ward in Thanjavur Medical College Hospital. District collector M Govinda Rao said that the administration has been taking various measures to ensure that social distancing is observed by people and issuing the colour coded passes is another way of restricting people on the streets.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/colour-coded-passes-to-be-issued-to-restrict-peoples-movement/articleshow/75170269.cms||---
April 16, 2020||Trichy||Spl camp inmates seek release, revenue dept puts onus on govt||Trichy: Twenty-five foreign inmates, mostly Sri Lankan Tamils, lodged in the special camp on the campus of the Trichy Central Prison staged a demonstration on Wednesday demanding their release. However, the revenue department, which controls the administration of the special camp put the onus on the state government, stating that it is the final authority to decide on their demands. Some of the inmates claimed that they had completed the sentence awarded to them for crimes like murder, fake passport, fake visa and petty offences. Other inmates claimed that they continued to stay in the camp even after acquittal by the courts. “Only the government can take a decision. We have explained to them (inmates) about the position. Still, they are putting forth some demands that can be decided by the government,” said special deputy collector of the camp, N Sudhandhiraraj. Revenue and police officials tried to convince them citing the crisis due to the Covid-19 pandemic. However, the talks did not yield any results. Later, the deputy collector said that the inmates have been provided with masks and other measures to protect them from Covid-19 infection. The camp houses 73 inmates from Sri Lanka, Bulgaria, South Korea, Russia, UK, Bangladesh and Kenya who were involved in several criminal cases and arrested under IPC and Foreigners Act, 1946.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/spl-camp-inmates-seek-release-revenue-dept-puts-onus-on-govt/articleshow/75170273.cms||---
April 16, 2020||Indore||In lockdown 2.0, admn ramps up home delivery||Indore: As the lockdown has been extended till May 3 and demand of grocery, medicines and other essential commodities has only been growing, the district administration has come up with a few plans to ensure home delivery without any hassle. “A list of wholesale vegetable traders will be prepared and for door-to-door supply, packaging facilities will be set up around 20 km away from the city in areas like Mhow, Depalpur, Khandwa Road,” divisional commissioner Akash Tripathi said. He added that a ward and zone-wise plan will be prepared to ease door-to-door supply of vegetables through loading auto-rickshaws while permission will not be given to sell the same through handcarts or in the market. Tripathi on Wednesday held a meeting with wholesale traders of vegetable, grocery, medicine and representatives of transport association. He issued permission to grocery wholesalers to supply the items through their godown to retailers to make them available at doorstep of the consumers. After receiving complaints of a large number of people turning up at Dawa Bazaar to purchase medicines, he instructed to deploy cops at the entry gate while retailers will only be given entry. Besides, employees of Dawa Bazaar will be issued passes and IMC has been instructed to sanitize Dawa Bazaar building. For transporters, Tripathi instructed that movement of the drivers will be allowed after they produce heavy-vehicle licence and an ID-Card issued by transporter. Besides, drivers will be provided medical checkup along with masks and sanitizers by the medical team at toll tax barrier. Meanwhile, district collector Manish Singh has made it clear that permission to go out of the city will only be provided on two conditions including to the patient after they will be discharged from the hospital and close relatives of those, who died in other cities, to participate in the last rites.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/indore/in-lockdown-2-0-admn-ramps-up-home-delivery/articleshow/75169512.cms||---
April 16, 2020||Indore||Biz shut. Small scale units struggle to pay wages||Indore: Coronavirus-hit Micro, Small and Medium Enterprises (MSME) sector faces liquidity crunch making hard for many units to clear wages of employees and pay running expenses. Pramod Dafaria, president, Association of Industries Madhya Pradesh said, “MSME sector is the worst hit due to pandemic. Business activities are nil but liabilities are towering day by day. The question is where is the cash flow to pay wages and pay for running expenses.” Industries have demanded that the government should use funds from the Employees’ State Insurance Corporation and Provident Fund to pay wages for April while funds from welfare fund should be used to pay to employees where number of employees is below 10. Mahesh Gupta, president, Laghu Udyog Bharti, Madhya Pradesh said, “Businesses are shut, how we will make payments? Fixed charges are a big liability. Electricity department should waive off fixed charges for April and charge only as per the consumption.” Industries should get relaxation on Goods and Services Tax (GST) and other bank related interests to aid them survive the lockdown period, said industries associations. They said, export from MSME is adversely hit due to pandemic causing huge losses to the sector. Confederation of Indian Industry (CII) has also submitted its recommendations targeted at providing relief to MSMEs to the government. CII suggested that government departments making purchases should not impose delay penalties as delays are bound to happen due the disruptions caused by the lockdown. Clear all outstanding government dues to MSMEs, including payments for supply for goods and services to PSUs by MSMEs, GST refunds, various state and central government incentives for MSMEs, recommended CII.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/indore/biz-shut-small-scale-units-struggle-to-pay-wages/articleshow/75169501.cms||---
April 16, 2020||Nagpur||Relief as no new +ve case in Nagpur||Nagpur: Wednesday provided relief for the city as no new case of Covid-19 was recorded throughout the day. Nagpur has 56 confirmed positive cases including one death. Total 12 patients have recovered and been discharged till date. On Wednesday, the Covid-19 testing laboratory in Government Medical College and Hospital in Nagpur tested no samples. Initially, it was told the laboratory is falling short of testing kits. However, GMCH Dean Dr Sajal Mitra denied this in the evening. “Our laboratory has enough kits. We had no pending sample on Wednesday. So no sample was tested in morning session. Several samples were received later and they are being tested in the evening session,” he said. GMCH doctors collected over 100 samples from MLA hostel on Wednesday. These included 32 of those quarantined from Mahesh Nagar in Shanti Nagar. Of them, 26 are relatives of the 53-year-old nephew of city’s first and only Covid-19 deceased. The nephew and his wife have already tested positive. AIIMS laboratory tested 96 samples on Wednesday, most of them were from Yavatmal and Amravati. One sample from Yavatmal tested positive. The Directorate of Medical Education and Research (DMER) announced district-wise bifurcation of existing Covid-19 testing facilities on Wednesday. Now, the Indira Gandhi Government Medical College (IGGMC) Nagpur will test samples from Nagpur city and district. Government Medical College (GMCH) will test samples from Gadchiroli, Gondia and Bhandara. Lab at Nagpur Veterinary college (MAFSU) will test samples from Wardha while AIIMS will test samples from Yavatmal, Amravati and Chandrapur. Newly started testing facility at Akola GMCH has been given charge of Akola, Buldhana and Washim districts. Maharashtra now has 17 labs.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/relief-as-no-new-ve-case-in-nagpur/articleshow/75169518.cms||Chaitanya Deshpande
April 16, 2020||Hyderabad||Civic body moves stranded to special camps and shelters||HYDERABAD: Greater Hyderabad Municipal Corporation (GHMC) is catching migrant workers heading towards their hometowns and shifting them to special camps set up for workers and night shelters. The workers who live in the city were sent back to their houses. “There are 208 labour camps and most of them near construction sites. In these camps, 32,008 people are being sheltered,” said GHMC commissioner DS Lokesh Kumar. On Tuesday evening, around 400 workers were caught by officials of line departments near Madhapur checkpost. The group consisted of workers from Uttar Pradesh, Chhattisgarh, Madhaya Pradesh and Bihar. Workers who were who were spotted near Hi-tec City Bridge (near 100ft road circle) were shifted to Lingampally night shelter, Serilingampally. “We are aware that there is no transport, we wanted to start the journey by walking and riding vehicles which are transporting goods to reach destination. We want to return as we have no work in the city. Stocking essentials and getting food has turned out into a hectic task,” said Pramod Saha, a migrant worker currently staying at Zilla Parishad School, Ligampally, a night shelter, According to GHMC officials, nodal officers have been appointed for each labour camp. “Essentials and medical facilities are being provided to migrant workers,” said a GHMC official.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/civic-body-moves-stranded-to-special-camps-shelters/articleshow/75170275.cms||Nabinder Bommala
April 16, 2020||Hyderabad||Webinar organised on coronavirus by Hyderabad hospital||HYDERABAD: An online ‘International Scientific Symposium’ for creating awareness on tackling Covid-19 among common people was organised on Wednesday from Berlin. The symposium, organised by Medicover Hospitals, Hyderabad, covered topics like diagnostic tools and management of the known and unknown pandemics. The symposium was one of the largest scientific webinars with over 7,500 participants from about 26 countries.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/webinar-organised-on-coronavirus/articleshow/75169535.cms||---
April 16, 2020||Hubballi||Are graduates not interested to vote in council polls?||Hubballi: There has been an allegation that not many literates step out to vote during elections. As if this reaffirm this, the graduates in four districts —Dharwad, Uttara Kannada, Haveri and Gadag — have not even enrolled their names to vote in the legislative council polls for West Graduates’ constituency. Only 68,000 graduates have registered as against a total of over four lakh. Ironically, the Dharwad district, considered the education hub of north Karnataka with three universities, has witnessed less enrolment compared to Haveri. According to functionaries of different political parties, Hubballi-Dharwad too have registered in meagre numbers. Santosh Nargund, a social activist, blames Election Commission for the poor enrolment. “While online registration is available even for general constituencies, the EC has not allowed it for the council elections. It conducts SVEEP to create awareness among voters for general elections, but the same is not there for council polls. Also, workers of political parties focus only on schools-colleges, offices, companies and institutions where graduates are in abundance, and motivate them to get themselves enrolled in the list. Many isolated graduates involved in business, agriculture and homemakers are left out,” he reasoned. MLC S V Sankanur, who is representing the same constituency, said EC has done a good job in this regard. “As the list was completely fresh this time, graduates might have stayed away due to lack of knowledge. Third round of enrolment is still open. It’s true that the number of voters has decreased from what it was in 2008 as the EC has filtered out fake voters,” he added. Political analyst prof Harish Ramaswamy observed that Indian voters are interested to know what they would get if they vote. “The same holds good for graduates too. Representatives of particular communities, graduates and teachers, have hardly tried to address basic issues. Such representatives have failed to take active part in framing effective education policies. Such constituencies have become another gateway to enter Vidhan Soudha. Political parties also don’t want all graduates in the voters’ list. They just focus on the confirmed voters. If the number is more, it would be difficult for them to reach out to the large numbers,” he explained. Four districts, four lakh grads Four districts have over four lakh graduates. But only 68,049 graduates have enrolled till the conclusion of the second round of enrolment. It was 47,917 in the first round released on December 7, 2019. A maximum of 5,000 graduates were expected to enrol in the third round which will be open till issuance of election calendar, which is expected in May first week (subjected to normalcy after the Covid-19 crisis). Dharwad district has registered 17,910 voters, Gadag district 14,716, Haveri district 20,505 and Uttara Kannada 14,918 graduate voters.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hubballi/are-graduates-not-interested-to-vote-in-council-polls/articleshow/75160275.cms||Sangamesh Menasinakai
April 16, 2020||Mangaluru||1 arrested in church theft case||City police on Wednesday arrested a 23-year-old man, who allegedly burgled three schools and a church in Paneer near Mangaluru. Another accused is absconding, said police. The arrested has been identified as Fayan, a resident of KC Nagar. He was produced before a court and remanded in judicial custody. In the first week of April, the duo committed theft at Our Lady of Mercy Church, Paneer, and also desecrated the bless sacrament. TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mangaluru/1-arrested-in-church-theft-case/articleshow/75166520.cms||---
April 16, 2020||Kochi||House surgeons told to serve in rural hospitals in Kerala||KOCHI: In order to strengthen the battle against Covid-19, the state government has decided to post house surgeons who passed out this year from government medical colleges at various rural centres for three months by invoking sections of the Kerala Epidemic Diseases Ordinance, 2020. Kerala had done away with compulsory rural posting amidst protest from students in the past and the students have raised concerns over the decision to reintroduce the mandatory service. This year’s batch has completed their one-year house surgeonship on March 31 and are awaiting registration from Travancore Cochin Medical Council (TCMC). The state government had extended their house surgeonship by 20 days, which they are serving in their respective medical colleges. “The principals of all government medical colleges are hereby directed to furnish the list of outgoing interns to the director of health services forthwith facilitating the issuance of posting orders at the earliest. Simultaneously, the director of medical education shall also direct the principals of all government medical colleges to issue internship posting to the fresh batch of students so that they can start the internship by 15/4/2020,” states the government order signed by principal health secretary Dr Rajan Khobragade. “We will give our list of students to the DHS and the authority will issue posting at periphery hospitals in each district. The decision was taken due to the Covid-19 situation in the country. We need to be prepared if there is a community outbreak and, therefore, it was decided to use the services of those who have finished house surgency,” said director of medical education, Dr Remla Beevi. The students, totalling about 1,500 in 10 government medical colleges, stated that they are ready to work, but not as house surgeons. “We completed one- year house surgeonship and have even worked for additional 20 days. Yet, TCMC has not given us registrations. We are willing to work for another three months but it has to be as junior residents or non-clinical doctors,” said Dr Akhil S, state convenor, Indian Medical Association-Medical Students’ Network, Kerala state. Meanwhile, in order to ensure that the fresh batch of MBBS interns are not Covid-19 carriers, the government has asked the students to submit self-declaration forms to their college principals pointing out that they were at their homes for the past 14 days and have not travelled outside the country or state in the past 28 days. They should not have come into contact with a Covid-19 positive patient or suspect or a returnee from other country or state. They should also have to submit that that they have not participated in any social gathering like marriage, birthday party or cremation. They shall undergo clinical examinations as well and those who do not meet the criteria mentioned in the self-declaration forms shall be quarantined for 14 days based on their risk assessment.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/house-surgeons-told-to-serve-in-rural-hospitals/articleshow/75166567.cms||---
April 16, 2020||Nagpur||Neeri to start testing for Covid-19 soon||Nagpur: The National Environmental Engineering Research Institute (Neeri), a constituent laboratory of Council of Scientific and Industrial Research (CSIR), will soon be testing Covid-19 samples at the institute’s headquarters in the city. TOI learns that the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) authorized CSIR to permit its laboratories for carrying out testing as per the guidelines. CSIR director general Shekhar Mande was empowered to identify labs that meet the guidelines. Neeri will be the sixth laboratory in the region to carry out testing for Covid-19. The other testing centres are city’s Government Medical College and Hospital (GMCH), Mayo hospital and All India Institute of Medical Sciences (AIIMS), and GMCH Akola. The Maharashtra Animal and Fishery Sciences University (MAFSU) lab in Nagpur too will get operational from Thursday. It will test samples from Wardha. Neeri director Rakesh Kumar informed that the laboratory will be ready to start testing in a week. “We are in the process of procuring some chemicals and additional personal protective equipment. All other instruments are in place. We are also working on orienting our labs to ensure that entry and exit is proper,” said Kumar, adding that few rooms next to the laboratory are being emptied. Kumar has constituted a three-member committee of outside experts to make sure that all the protocols are being followed. “Though we have our own protocols and ethics’ committee, we wanted to have one more layer of advisory,” the director added. The laboratory testing will be done as per the usual guidelines. “We will get samples of the region from the state. After testing, we will give the reports to ICMR and other concerned agencies,” said Kumar.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/neeri-to-start-testing-for-covid-19-soon/articleshow/75169549.cms||Manka Behl
April 16, 2020||Hyderabad||Convene an all-party meet: Opposition to KCR||HYDERABAD: Opposition parties in Telangana, including the Congress, Communist Party of India, Telugu Desam Party, Telangana Janata Samithi, among others demanded that chief minister K Chandrashekhar Rao convene an all-party meeting to discuss the lockdown situation in the state. At a meeting presided over by Telangana Congress president N Uttam Kumar Reddy on Wednesday, the opposition parties lauded the services of medical, sanitation, police and other departments. Uttam said the free 12 kg rice per person and Rs 1,500 cash per family did not reach all the needy. He also demanded the withdrawal of a case against Congress leader V Hanumanth Rao for garlanding BR Ambedkar’s statue on Tank Bund in violation of lockdown rules .||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/convene-an-all-party-meet-oppn-to-kcr/articleshow/75169544.cms||---
April 16, 2020||Hyderabad||Hyderabad techie develops app to ensure free rations reach the needy||HYDERABAD: Do you want to help migrant workers or the poor who do not have enough food thanks to the lockdown? An app developed by a city-based software engineer will help in providing free food supplies to migrant workers, daily wagers and poor people in two hours. All one should do is download the app, identify poor people in the locality who need food supplies and send the geographical location of the family. A 15-member call centre will get the details through the app, which has tagged grocery stores all over the country. The call centre will pay money to the nearest grocery store, which will deliver the food supplies to the beneficiary within two hours. The beneficiary can also go to the grocery store concerned to take his ration. The app can be downloaded through https://tinyurl.com/FreeRation or through a missed call to 9606046818. As many as 2,000 requests were received through the app and were attended to immediately. The requests have come in not only from Hyderabad and other parts of Telangana, but also from Andhra Pradesh and West Bengal. “Our free ration app has helped hundreds of needy, daily wagers and migrant workers survive the lockdown. We have also helped migrant workers from Jharkhand stuck on the outskirts of Hyderabad. The app identifies needy and daily wage workers, who are suffering due to lockdown anywhere in India,” said Syed Khalid Saifullah of Social Data Initiatives Forum, an NGO. Saifullah, who had earlier developed apps to identify missing voters and helping find one’s name in the National Registry of Citizens (NRC), told TOI that the free ration pack is sufficient for a week. It contains rice, dal, wheat flour, oil, sugar, salt, tea, tamarind and soaps. “Once we get the request, we will forward it to the nearest merchant and pay him the money. The packet is then delivered. This will save the poor from the humiliation of standing in long queues for food,” Saifullah said. The app maintains a database of more than 12,000 merchants, who accept online payment.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/techie-develops-app-to-ensure-free-rations-reach-the-needy/articleshow/75170295.cms||Syed Akbar
April 16, 2020||Hyderabad||V Vijaysai Reddy seeks probe into letter by ex-SEC||HYDERABAD: YSR Congress leader and Rajya Sabha member V Vijaysai Reddy on Tuesday lodged a complaint with Andhra Pradesh Director General of Police (DGP) Gautam Sawang asking police officials to probe into the letter purportedly written by former state election commissioner Nimmagadda Ramesh Kumar to Ministry of Home Affairs seeking additional security. Claiming that the letter, which was sent to the MHA on March 8, was forged, he said that the letter was written at the instance of the TDP leaders. “There are conspicuous differences in the signatures in the notification issued by the SEC and the letter to the MHA. There is reason to believe that the documents were forged and fabricated in the office of TDP. It is learnt from sources that the documents were forged by TDP leaders,” Reddy wrote in the letter, and alleged that the letter was drafted by TDP MP Kanakamedala Ravindra Kumar, at the instance of TDP leaders Varla Ramaiah and TD Janardhan. Reddy asked the DGP to find out the IP address from which the letter was mailed to the MHA and asked the police to get the signatures verified at the forensic science lab. He also requested the DGP to take appropriate criminal action against the accused based on the report received from the forensic expert. Meanwhile, Nimmagadda Ramesh said he had written the letter and that there was no need to create a dispute over his letter.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/vijaysai-seeks-probe-into-letter-by-ex-sec/articleshow/75169551.cms||U Sudhakar Reddy
April 16, 2020||Goa||Business power consumers to take own meter readings||PANAJI: During the lockdown, commercial power consumers in the state will be able to record their own meter readings and send it to the electricity department via WhatsApp. The option will also be extended to those whose houses are closed. “The WhatsApp option is only for those whose houses are closed and for industries. (Elsewhere) meter readers will continue to take meter readings,” an official told TOI. The electricity department is in the process of making available the WhatsApp or SMS number, the official said. “It (the number) will be publicised as soon as it is finalised,” the official told TOI. The move comes following directives from the Joint Electricity Regulatory Commission (JERC) asking the department to have direct meter reading wherever possible by provisional billing or encouraging consumers to take their own meter readings during the lockdown. The commission also asked the department to encourage all types of digital payments without demanding bank transaction charges from consumers. The JERC also provided relief to consumers by asking the electricity department to extend the due date for payment of electricity bills by two weeks where due dates fall between March 24 and June 30, without late payment charges. However, no extension will be granted for due dates beyond June 30. For those making payments after the permitted two weeks, late payment charges have been reduced from two percent to one percent. “This relaxation is purely of temporary nature for the period starting from March 24 to June 30,” JERC stated. Providing further relief, the commission has also introduced a moratorium on payment of fixed charges to all industrial and commercial consumers for bills raised between March 24 and June 30. “These deferred charges shall be recovered in an equated manner over next three bills to be raised after June 30,” the JERC order stated. The electricity department began sending out meter readers only last week. The department had appealed to the public to cooperate with meter readers and provide them with unhindered access to their premises to record meter readings. The meter readers in turn have been instructed to take all necessary health precautions while visiting houses.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/commercial-power-consumers-to-take-own-meter-readings/articleshow/75170057.cms||---
April 16, 2020||Meerut||Family quarantined after clericalerror declares man 'Covid- 19 +ve'||Bijnor: It was a harrowing experience for an entire family. A 66-year-old Amroha-based man tested Covid-19 negative. However, in the consolidated report prepared by Moradabad administration, he was erroneously mentioned positive. The development resulted in the quarantining of eight members of his family.According to official sources, the man, a resident of Amroha's Nauganva Sadat town, was suffering from cold and sore throat and was admitted to a Moradabad hospital for treatment. His blood sample was collected and sent to Aligarh laboratory last week. The report arrived on Monday night. The Bijnor chief medical officer (CMO) later sought confirmation from the Aligarh lab and by Tuesday evening it turned out to be negative.Health department on Tuesday discharged the five members of the family.Amroha CMO Megh Singh said, "The test report of a Nauganva Sadat local was misprinted. As per the earlier report, he was shown Covid positive. Moradabad health department had provided his report to us. When we checked his history and took it up with Aligarh laboratory, the mistake which was made by staff while typing came to light.""We informed the Moradabad admin about it. The man who was shown positive in the report was later tested negative," Singh said.Meanwhile, nine people have tested positive for Covid-19 in Amroha district so far. Out of them, three belong to the same family.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/meerut/family-quarantined-after-clericalerror-declares-man-covid-19-ve/articleshow/75169556.cms||Harveer Dabas
April 16, 2020||Meerut||No food at home, woman, 23, approaches ration dealer for her quota, raped||Muzaffarnagar: A ration dealer allegedly raped a 23-year-old married woman in lieu of providing her with the free government dole in UP’s Shamli district. The helpless woman had approached the local shopkeeper for her quota of government ration after her meagre savings dried up, and the landlord refused to give her more food. With her husband stuck in Punjab, she was left with no option but to venture out of her rented room where she lived alone.“She stood in the queue for hours on Tuesday. And when her turn came, the dealer refused to give her the ration. After her repeated pleas, the dealer said that he would come to her room to get her thumb impression after which she would get her quota of ration. She agreed and left,” a police officer said.“On Tuesday evening, the accused, Vinod, reached the woman’s room. But, instead of giving her the ration, he allegedly raped her after taking the thumb impression,” he said.The victim said, “I had no money to purchase food. So I went to collect free ration but the dealer told me that he will come to my home to get thumb impression on documents. But, he came to my house and raped me.” When contacted, superintendent of police (SP) of Shamli, Vineet Jaiswal, said, “On the basis of complaint filed by the victim, police have booked Vinod under section 376 of IPC for the rape. He has been arrested and sent to jail.”“For the last three weeks, we were giving her the food as her husband was away and she had no money left. But, a few days ago, we expressed helplessness due our own condition,” the landlord told TOI over phone.The woman and her husband are residents of Saharanpur district and they had moved to Shamli’s Kandhla town about six months ago. Sources said that the woman’s husband, a manual labourer, went to Punjab to collect his wages of the work he did a few months ago. But he got stranded there after the announcement of countrywide lockdown.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/meerut/no-food-at-home-woman-23-approaches-ration-dealer-for-her-quota-raped/articleshow/75169563.cms||Mohd Dilshad
April 16, 2020||Hyderabad||SCR begins operating Jai Kisan special freight trains for foodgrains||HYDERABAD: South Central Railway (SCR) has started operating Jai Kisan special freight trains, a new concept, to transport foodgrains to the states of Tamil Nadu, Kerala, Karnataka and West Bengal. According to an official statement from SCR, in the normal circumstances, one freight train containing 42 covered wagons loaded with foodgrains carries around 2,600 tonnes. But in the new concept two freight trains with 5,200 tonnes capacity will be moved in a single path. “The zone started this concept by running two Jai Kisan special freight trains from Dornakal junction in the state to Sevuru and Chettinad in Tamil Nadu. Similarly, the second Jai Kisan special train was also clubbed at Dornakaj junction in the state and moved to Dindigal and Mudiyapakkam in Tamil Nadu,” said Ch Rakesh, chief public relations officer, SCR. “Major food grain loading destinations are Nizamabad, Peddapalli, Karimnagar, Warangal, Nekkonda, Kazipet, Sultanabad, Miryalguda in Telangana. Similarly, Rajahmundry, Samalkot, Nidadavolu, Eluru, Vijayawada, Gudivada, Machilipatnam, Tanuku, and Pallakollu are major loading stations in AP,” added Rakesh.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/scr-begins-operating-jai-kisan-spl-freight-trains-for-foodgrains/articleshow/75169566.cms||---
April 16, 2020||Nagpur||Counsellors calm Lonara quarantined, Satranjipura suspects separated from others||Nagpur: Two cases on Tuesday and six Covid-19 cases since April 6 have created a lot of anxiety and apprehension among not just the 124 suspects, mainly from Satranjipura, Takia Deewanshah, Jaripatka and those identified as ‘Delhi returnees’, but also civic officials at the Lonara quarantine facility in a private college. On Wednesday, a team of psychological counsellors held sessions facilitated by the district collector’s office with many people who showed anxiety and nervousness. The two Satranjipura-linked persons detected positive — a woman and her daughter-in-law, relatives of first Covid-19 deceased — were till Tuesday staying in one room with around 7 to 8 other suspects. The earlier positive cases too had been staying with more than five to six suspects. Since the college didn’t have a hostel, it’s big classrooms were converted into isolation rooms to accommodate around 10 people each. When the two Satranjipura residents tested positive, the news created panic, forcing health officials and college management to address the concerns immediately. The officials had a tough time till late on Tuesday night addressing the concerns. The officials controlled the situation by asking the college administration to make arrangements as per social distancing norms. The college management said it was already following all the norms prescribed by NMC and health ministry, and provided all amenities to fight the contagion. As some advanced measures, less than five suspects were now occupying each of the big rooms. The close contacts of all eight positive patients from here too were shifted to different rooms. Bathrooms were also marked in the name of the people who would use them exclusively. All suspects from Satranjipura have also been separated from others and kept in ground floor rooms. College trust adviser Anees Ahmed said, “People are now settling down. A CRPF jawan too was asked to lift the morale of people staying here. One to one counselling is also going on. Disinfectant was sprayed after positive cases were detected. Of the 124, 114 have been tested and all are negative. Next test will be done after seven days. All are asymptomatic.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/counsellors-calm-lonara-quarantined-satranjipura-suspects-separated-from-others/articleshow/75169584.cms||Sarfaraz Ahmed
April 16, 2020||Hyderabad||Hyderabad: Six cops deployed at OGH wards||HYDERABAD: A day after a resident doctor was assaulted by a suspected Covid-19 patient’s relative, six constables have been deployed at the Osmania General Hospital (OGH)’s emergency and isolation wards to avert any further untoward incident. Even as the state health authorities decided to close the Covid-19 isolation ward at the OGH, a few positive patients were shifted to the Gandhi hospital while others, who are awaiting test reports ,are still lodged at the isolation ward. Their reports are expected by Thursday morning, following which they would be either shifted to the Gandhi hospital, which is a designated Covid-19 hospital, or to regular wards if they are negative for the virus. However, the infrastructure and basic amenities at the hospital continue to be poor, say insiders. While junior doctors and resident doctors have divided the emergency procedure into a three-tier system, where different sets of doctors would check patients (at casualty, at the acute medical care unit and in the emergency ward) to filter suspected Covid-19 patients, the staff is still working with minimal N95 masks and personal protective equipment (PPE). “ The infrastructure is not fit for a Covid-19 isolation ward, but even without that there are many deficiencies. There are no proper BP operators,ECG machines and even the PPE and N 95 masks are supplied in limited quantity. As a result many doctors are working without PPEs. For instance, only two doctors in emergency are given PPEs while the rest are given N95. In some cases even N95 masks are not given in adequate numbers. This is a risk to doctors and patients,” said Dr Mahesh Kumar, president Healthcare Reforms Doctors Association||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/6-cops-deployed-at-ogh-wards/articleshow/75169576.cms||---
April 16, 2020||Goa||Decision on seafarers’ evacuation in 3 days: Goa CM||PANAJI: Chief minister Pramod Sawant on Wednesday said that evacuation of seafarers would be done in three phases, but the final decision on the first phase would be taken within the next three days by the ministry of home affairs. Sawant said he has raised the matter at various levels, even with Union minister of state for shipping Mansukh Mandaviya. As per the Director General of Shipping’s information, 3,000 Indian seafarers are along the Indian Coast, 15,000 in deep sea, while the rest are on land, he told reporters. “The Union shipping ministry has finalised standard operation procedure (SOP) to evacuate seafarers. DG Shipping’s proposal has been sent to MHA for final approval,” the chief minister said. Sawant said as per the SOP, in the first phase, seafarers whose ships are along the Indian Coast will be brought back to port via sea route. “This decision would be taken in three days,” he said. ‘Continuously following up on ship crew with Centre’In the second phase, the seafarers whose vessels are in deep sea brought to shore, but a decision in this regard will be taken in eight to 10 days. In third and last phase, decision will be taken about the seafarers who are already on land. “Within two to three days final decision on the issue to evacuate seafarers will be taken by MHA,” Sawant said. He said that he has been following the issue of seafarers continuously since the last few days, though some feel that the state government is not acting on the issue. “Until a concrete solution is found, we did not want to speak about it and give false assurances. Some people want to politicise the issue. It is not right to give any assurance till we get a solution from the Centre,” the chief minister said. He said that he had also discussed the issue with Prime Minister Narendra Modi and home minister Amit Shah.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/decision-on-seafarers-evacuation-in-3-days-cm/articleshow/75170169.cms||---
April 16, 2020||Hyderabad||Take care of workers, Cyberabad cops tell firms||HYDERABAD: Cyberabad police commissioner VC Sajjanar on Wednesday warned legal action against managers and labour supervisors in construction companies if they fail to take care of migrant workers. Appealing to the migrant workers to stay put wherever they are till the end of the lockdown, Sajjanar said since the lockdown was extended up to May 3, a large number of migrant workers from other states are trying to go back to their native places. He said, “Many of them are carrying small children and luggage and walking on the highways. This is highly dangerous.”He asked construction companies to counsel migrant labourers and take care of their stay.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/take-care-of-workers-cops-tell-firms/articleshow/75170305.cms||---
April 16, 2020||Mysuru||Residents allege disparity in ration distribution||Mysuru: Scores of residents of Gandhinagar descended on the streets here on Wednesday morning, seeking ration, foodgrainand milk. The protesters of the area, which falls under the jurisdiction of ward 27 of the Mysuru City Corporation (MCC), alleged that their corporator Rafiq was distributing ration only to his supporters, and not others. The residents said that the lockdown had left many of them without jobs or means to earn enough for their basic needs and sought the intervention of the district administration to address the disparity in the distribution of essential commodities. Disregarding the prohibitory orders imposed in Mysuru, the residents gathered on the streets to give vent to their angst. Some of the women protesters said that most of them were employed as domestic workers in various localities across the city. “But owing to the Covid-19 outbreak, our employers have asked us not to come, which has rendered us jobless,” they said. Mayor Tasneem told TOI that the MCC had been distributing ration, milk and food grains to all members of the underprivileged sections across the city, regardless of whether or not they had a BPL card.  “The MCC is planning to distribute an additional 11,000 ration kits to those we have identified,” Tasneem said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mysuru/residents-allege-disparity-in-ration-distribution/articleshow/75165241.cms||---
April 16, 2020||Hyderabad||Telangana gives Rs 307 crore to gram panchayats||HYDERABAD: The Telangana government released Rs 307 crore to gram panchayats for maintenance of cleanliness in rural areas and to help clear pending power bills. Panchayat Raj and rural development minister Errabelli Dayakar Rao warned the elected representatives against the misuse of funds and said that strict action will be taken against those who misuse funds. He said that social distancing should be strictly maintained when the works are taken up in the gram panchayats.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/t-gives-rs-307-cr-to-gram-panchayats/articleshow/75169581.cms||---
April 16, 2020||Vadodara||13-year-old girl dies, positive cases surface from more areas||Vadodara: A 13-year-old girl died and 10 others including her tested positive for novel coronavirus infection in the city and district since Tuesday night. Cases have started trickling in from new areas and additional areas have been added to the orange zone in the city. The 10 new cases since Tuesday night included the 13-year-old girl from the Pratapnagar area. She had other health complications and was unwell for a long time. A Dabhoi man also tested positive, taking the total number of cases in the district to 124 even as five have died due to the disease since the outbreak. The other cases include the husband of the woman from Karelibaug who had tested positive earlier. He is a policeman working with a state-owned power company. A man from Salatwada and a woman form Amdavadi Pole in Raopura also tested positive. The remaining four cases were reported from Nagarwada area. The new areas where the cases have been spotted include Pratapnagar, Dabhoi, Amdavadi Pole and Salatwada. Amdavadi Pole and Salatwada are not very far away Nagarwada, but the case in Pratapnagar as well as the one reported on Tuesday from Gorwa have no travel or contact history. The VMC has added 12 new localities in the old city as well as eastern parts of the city to the orange zone. The movements in and out of this zone will be restricted. Kuresha Park in Gorwa was also declared an orange zone late on Tuesday night. A micro red zone was also created within the area located behind the Gorwa police station.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/13-year-old-girl-dies-positive-cases-surface-from-more-areas/articleshow/75166630.cms||---
April 16, 2020||Meerut||Four each test +ve in Meerut &Bijnor, 7 new +ve cases in Hapur||Meerut/Bijnor: Four each Covid-19 positive cases were reported in Meerut and Bijnor, and seven cases were found in Hapur on Wednesday.While the cases of Meerut and Bijnor were reported at Lala Lajpat Rai Memorial Medical College in Meerut, reports of Hapur cases came from Sanjay Gandhi Post Graduate Institute of Medical Sciences, Lucknow.Hapur district magistrate Aditi Singh said, “As many as seven new positive cases were confirmed by test reports received from SGPGI on Wednesday. Four were already in quarantine centres, two were in home quarantine and one in quarantine at a hospital."Five are Tablighi Jamaat men, while two are their contacts. With the fresh cases, the total tally of Hapur rose to 16.Dr Vishwas Chaudhary, Meerut district surveillance officer, said, “We sent 157 samples for testing, out of which, four tested positive. While one is a Jamaati, three others are their contacts. Contact tracing is being done now.”The total Covid-19 tally of Meerut reached 69, including one case which is admitted in Kanpur, on Wednesday.Bijnor district magistrate Ramakant Pandey said, “Four patients tested positive for Covid-19 on Wednesday. Three family members are from Nargadi village under Nehtaur police station area while one is from Chandpur town. We are making preparations to seal these Covid-infected areas. Family members of the patients have been quarantined. All the patients are aged between 18 and 35. They had attended Delhi’s Tablighi Jamaat.”With the fresh cases, the total district tally in Bijnor reached 13, including one, who is admitted in Kanpur.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/meerut/four-each-test-ve-in-meerut-bijnor-7-new-ve-cases-in-hapur/articleshow/75169598.cms||Ishita Bhatia
April 16, 2020||Hyderabad||Drunk man rams car into tree in LB Nagar, booked||HYDERABAD: The driver of a car that met with an accident on Tuesday night in LB Nagar was booked for drunk driving, according to the police. Three scotch bottles were recovered from the car. According to the police, a 21-year-old Pruthvi Raj, suffered leg injury after he rammed the SUV to a tree. The police found the bottles while they checking the vehicle, after shifting Pruthvi to a hospital. The SIV as well as the liquor bottles have been seized by the police. During investigation, it was revealed that Pruthvi was travelling to Khammam district, his native place, in his employer’s car. “We are still investigating as to whom the liquor bottles belong to and why Pruthvi was taking the bottles to Khammam. He has claimed that the bottles belong to him,” LB Nagar Inspector Ashok Reddy told TOI. A complaint was filed against Pruthvi at the police station by his employer, whose vehicle Pruthvi was driving at the time of the accident. Pruthvi, is still undergoing treatment at a local hospital.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/drunk-man-rams-car-into-tree-booked/articleshow/75169595.cms||---
April 16, 2020||Kochi||Mom travels 2,500km by road to see ailing son||KOTTAYAM: Beating lockdown hurdles, a Kottayam native travelled across three states on her way to Rajasthan to see her ailing son. Sheelamma Vasan, a native of Panackachira village in Koruthodu panchayath in Kottayam, along with her son’s wife, Parvathi, travelled over 2500km in a car to see her son Arun Kumar, a BSF jawan admitted to the ICU of AIIMS, Jodhpur.Sheelamma decided to go on the long journey after doctors who were looking after her son informed her that he expressed his wish to see her. “My son was diagnosed with myositis, which affects the muscles. He was in a critical condition and he expressed his desire to see me,” said Sheelamma who is now at the hospital. “The doctors told me his condition would improve if I stay with him. And, he has been feeling better since my arrival,” she said, adding that she is planning to remain in Jodhpur for around a month. She managed to procure a letter from the district collector and BSF officials for travelling during the lockdown. They started their journey on Saturday evening and halted at Madiwala in Bengaluru, Kolhapur in Maharashtra and Surat in Gujarat during the three-day journey. The women were accompanied by a relative and they reached Jodhpur on the morning of Vishu. The Malayali staff at the hospital, BSF officials and other well-wishers helped them get accommodation and food. “I was sure that my son will recover once he sees me,” said Sheelamma. Arunkumar had joined BSF in 2010 and is now posted in Jaisalmer.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/mom-travels-2500km-by-road-to-see-ailing-son/articleshow/75166623.cms||Jaikrishnan Nair
April 16, 2020||Hyderabad||Hyderabad: Throwing caution to wind, citizens & supermarkets ignore social distancing||HYDERABAD: The government’s appeal to maintain social distancing seems to be falling on deaf ears with citizens giving social distancing a miss at various supermarkets.  Greater Hyderabad Municipal Corporation’s (GHMC) enforcement wing on Tuesday sealed D-Mart store at LB Nagar for flouting social distancing norms. Consumers have put the onus on supermarket managements for the lapses as they claim slow billing is often a major issue. “Irrespective of the quantity of items purchased, we have to wait in a queue for a long time due to the slow billing process,” Balakrishna Marupaka, a resident of AS Rao Nagar, said, suggesting that supermarkets should instead have queues based on number of items purchased. On Wednesday, the GHMC’s enforcement, vigilance and disaster management wing conducted drives at various supermarkets. “Supermarket managements blamed consumers for not adhering to norms. Allowing only five consumers at a time is reducing pace of their business. In order to increase volumes, some are allowing more number consumers at one go,” said Vishwajit Kampati, director, EVMD. Though the government has permitted online grocery delivery platforms to commence operations, many are yet to resume operations “Till date, slots are unavailable on most grocery delivery apps. Many supermarkets have not started home deliveries,” said Veena Murthy, a consumer. Meanwhile, Goshamahal MLA Raja Singh on Wednesday wrote to Hyderabad police commissioner Anjani Kumar seeking action against shops flouting social distancing norms.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/throwing-caution-to-wind-citizens-supermarkets-ignore-social-distancing/articleshow/75169602.cms||---
April 16, 2020||Mumbai||Dharavi records 1 more death, has 5 new cases||MUMBAI: Dharavi reported five new Covid-19 cases and one death on Wednesday. With these, positive cases in Dharavi now total 60, including eight deaths. The deceased, a 55-year-old resident of an apartment opposite Baliga Nagar, had been admitted to Sion Hospital. He was among the 18 from Dharavi who had attended the congregation at Nizamuddin Markaz in New Delhi last month. Two of the 18 had tested positive. While the deceased man was first quarantined and then transferred to Sion Hospital, the other positive patient was shifted to Seven Hills Hospital. Meanwhile, civic authorities are worried as all the five new cases are from Mukund Nagar Chawl, making it the locality with the highest number of coronavirus patients in Dharavi at 14. The five cases include two women aged 39 and 47 and three men aged 24, 25 and 38. Civic officials said contact-tracing of the new positive cases has been undertaken on a priority basis. “We had conducted fever camps after initial positive cases were detected in the area. The five patients who have tested positive now were traced through the camp,” said Kiran Dighavkar, BMC’s assistant municipal commissioner of G-North Ward. In Dharavi, the BMC had initially set up an institutional quarantine at Rajiv Gandhi District Sports Complex. Considering the rising positive cases in the area, another quarantine facility at Dharavi transit camp in a municipal school has been started too. Meanwhile, to check whether community transmission of the virus has begun in Dharavi, the BMC has so far screened around 30,000 residents of various localities where cases were traced over the past fortnight, including Mukund Nagar, Muslim Nagar, Madina Nagar and Social Nagar. Of these, swabs of around 100 symptomatic persons have been collected for tests. On the basis of the initial test results, which the BMC began to receive on Wednesday, community transmission sppears unlikely, said civic officials. However, they said they will comment only after receiving all the results.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/dharavi-records-1-more-death-has-5-new-cases/articleshow/75169615.cms||Richa Pinto
April 16, 2020||Nagpur||12-yr-old rape survivor delivers baby, it dies in 10 min||NAGPUR: After the 12-year-old rape survivor delivered a premature baby on Wednesday morning, the Nagpur Bench of Bombay High Court directed the respondents to file a comprehensive affidavit leading to the development. The foetus, however, died within ten minutes of delivery. While adjourning the hearing till next week, Justice Vinay Joshi also asked the respondents, particularly the dean/civil surgeon of Government Medical College and Hospital (GMCH) in Chandrapur, to also inform on condition of the minor. Earlier, the medical board members from Chandrapur GMCH, who were present in HC, informed through government pleader Sumant Deopujari that the girl had developed complications from Tuesday night and finally delivered a baby after doctors operated on her at 10.05am. When the judge inquired about the minor’s health, Deopujari informed she was admitted into the GMCH from the day the case was filed and her condition was reported to be stable. “The GP seeks time to place factual aspect on record by way of affidavit within one week. Virtually the petition has become infructuous as already the mother has delivered a baby. Therefore no question of grant of permission for medical termination of pregnancy survived. In view of that, put up the matter after one week for further direction, if any and for filing of affidavit,” the judge said. Petitioner’s counsel Sweety Harish Bhatia pressed for suitable compensation to the survivor’s family for securing her future. Justice Joshi then told the respondents to include this aspect in their affidavit during next week’s hearing. “We expect the authority will take care of the mother in all respects. Petitioner’s lawyer also stated she is seeking compensation. However, that issue will be dealt with later on,” the judge said. The minor girl from Shegaon village in Chandrapur moved the court to terminate her 23 weeks’ pregnancy. She was sexually exploited by her father’s friend, Yogesh Dohtare, who was later arrested under POCSO Act and Section 376 of IPC. As she hails from extremely poor family, the HC had appointed Bhatia through legal services authority.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/12-yr-old-rape-survivor-delivers-baby-it-dies-in-10-min/articleshow/75170330.cms||Vaibhav Ganjapure
April 16, 2020||Nagpur||Find equilibrium, Gadkari to bizmen||Nagpur: Union minister for MSMEs and road transport Nitin Gadkari has told industrialists that like them, the government, too, is facing a financial crisis due to Covid-19. Elaborating further, he said that some state governments are not even in a position to pay salaries to their employees. Gadkari was addressing industrialists from the MSME sector through videoconferencing from Nagpur. The statement was in response to the industrialists’ major grievance that dues of MSMEs amounting to nearly Rs40,000 crore are pending with PSUs. Some of the government departments like the health ministry, too, have not cleared dues, said industrialists. “In times of such crisis, industrialists should find a point of equilibrium so that all stakeholders can survive,” said Gadkari in the context of the financial crisis faced by the government. Even the banking industry is facing tough times, he said. In a gesture to boost the sentiments of the industrialists, he quoted lines from US president Richard Nixon’s autobiography —“Man is not finished when he is defeated. He is finished when he quits.” Gadkari urged industrialists to see the silver lining in the dark clouds. He said due to the corona crisis, countries like Japan and America are keen to withdraw their investments from China. If this happens then Indian industries stand a good chance of cashing in on the opportunity, Gadkari said. After RBI’s guidelines, loans of various industries have been restructured. With dates for repayment of loans extended, the figure is likely to touch 15 lakh MSME units, said Gadkari. He urged industrialists to tap the capital market. A proposal has been put before the cabinet to create a corpus of Rs10,000 crore for providing capital to MSMEs. The MSMEs will be given ratings on the basis of turnover and GST payment. Industries can raise funds from the capital market on the basis of their ratings. Even the government will fund 15% of the capital for ventures from the corpus that is being created, he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/find-equilibrium-gadkari-to-bizmen/articleshow/75169622.cms||Shishir Arya
April 16, 2020||Meerut||Inside one of UP's Covid-19 labs, no jewellery, no phones, constant risk & a mother who hasn't seen her 5-yr-old for weeks||At the entrance of a lab at Meerut's LLRM Medical College, Dr Amit Garg carefully takes his cellphone out of his pocket and puts it away in a bag in his office. A woman standing behind him does the same. Both then proceed to wear protective layers, gloves and masks. With the elaborate armour in place, the microbiologists are ready to begin another busy day, testing samples of suspected Covid-19 patients. “It takes at least six hours to complete the test of 50 samples — the maximum that we can put in the first batch of testing. Initially, we were testing 100 samples a day; the laboratory has the capacity to test 115 samples daily. But as cases increased, we had to test up to 200 samples a day,” Garg, who heads the team of 14 microbiologists, told TOI. But more samples mean more risk. Read the full TOI+ story here||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/meerut/inside-one-of-ups-covid-19-labs-no-jewellery-no-phones-constant-risk-a-mother-who-hasnt-seen-her-5-yr-old-for-weeks/articleshow/75169609.cms||Ishita Bhatia
April 16, 2020||Hubballi||Family uses pass to attend wedding, get caught||Dharwad: A family from Uppinabetageri village in Dharwad district, who had obtained pass to attend a medical emergency, misused it to attend a wedding. Police seized their vehicle when they were returning after attending the wedding and warned them to be under home quarantine after subjecting them to medical test. According to police, the family had obtained a pass from the district administration to get medical assistance in Hubballi. However, they attended a wedding in Hubballi on Tuesday. Nine members of the family, including a child, were returning in their Innova to Uppinabetageri, avoiding police checkposts. Police during routine checking near Narendra found that the pass was being misused. Acting on the direction of the SP, police seized the vehicle and sent all the nine members to KIMS in Hubballi for testing. After finding that all were asymptomatic for Covid 19, police asked them to be under home quarantine. The administration on humanitarian grounds issues passes to people to travel in medical emergencies. Anybody found misusing passes will be dealt with severely and cases will be filed against them under Section 188 of the IPC, police said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hubballi/family-uses-pass-to-attend-wedding-get-caught/articleshow/75165314.cms||---
April 16, 2020||Kochi||Plasma therapy likely to be delayed||KOCHI: It will be sometime before Kerala starts the convalescent plasma therapy as a treatment option for Covid-19. The Indian Council for Medical Research (ICMR) had approved a protocol for convalescent plasma therapy submitted by the state government on April 9 and it was awaiting the Drug Controller of India’s approval. Meanwhile, on April 13, in a new circular, ICMR informed the state health department that it was initiating convalescent plasma therapy and hospitals in the state can partner with them after getting ethical committee clearance. If unwilling to partner with ICMR, Kerala will have to register separately for convalescent plasma therapy clinical trial. “We are now in discussions with the state government on whether we should partner with ICMR or since we have a protocol, to go for a separate clinical trial. This needs to be done as ICMR has changed its strategy,” said Dr Anoop Kumar, member, state government’s medical advisory panel on Covid-19 management and critical care physician at Baby Memorial Hospital, Kozhikode. Incidentally, the state was all ready for the convalescent plasma therapy and had also started counselling. It was planning to collect plasma from 300 patients who were treated and tested negative in the state. But as per ICMR’s new criteria, only hospitals treating Covid-19 patients can do plasma therapy. Hence, private hospitals will not be able to do the tests as they have not been so far declared as Covid-19 hospitals in the state. There are 10 hospitals in the government sector and about 20 hospitals in private sector here that have the facility for the plasma therapy. The therapy involves transfusion of the blood plasma of a recovered patient into another patient. The antibodies in the plasma of the recovered patient help in neutralising the virus in the infected patient.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/plasma-therapy-likely-to-be-delayed/articleshow/75166656.cms||---
April 16, 2020||Hyderabad||Officials plan to set up oxygen supply lines to three Telangana government hospitals||HYDERABAD: With Telangana witnessing a spike in the number of coronavirus cases and deaths, the health department has decided to divide patients into three groups. Covid-19 patients who are very critical and need to be on a ventilator will be treated in Gandhi Hospital, while other coronavirus-designated hospitals will treat the other patients who are stable. The health department is gearing up to create oxygen supply lines at Gandhi, Chest and King Koti Government hospitals for all the beds. Officials said that of the 18 deaths that occurred in the state (till Tuesday), about 10 deaths happened while they were on ventilators. Some were dead even before the critical treatment began. “Providing oxygen supply will enable patients recover quickly without waiting for ventilator support,” a doctor said. The first and second-level patients are those who would not require ventilator support. In the first level, patients have mild symptoms and may require oxygen. It is observed that those who need ventilators are succumbing within one or two days of treatment. “ We have decided to adopt a different mechanism for three levels of patients,” a senior official said. Apart from Gandhi and King Koti hospitals, Gachibowli Hospital, Nature Cure Hospital in Begumpet, Government Nizamia General Hospital at Charminar, Government Ayurvedic Hospital in Erragadda, Government Ayurvedic Teaching Hospital at Warangal and Dharmakirna Government Homeo Hospital in Ramanthapur have also been designated as Covid-19 hospitals.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/officials-plan-to-set-up-oxygen-supply-lines-to-three-govt-hosps/articleshow/75169644.cms||Sribala Vadlapatla
April 16, 2020||Nagpur||Now, no pillion on bike, just one passenger in car||Nagpur: From Thursday, city police would not allow pillion riders on bikes not more than one passenger in car following advisory issued by the Ministry of Home Affairs (MHA) in the second phase of national lockdown. The restrictions will not apply to the exempted essential services or in cases of medical emergency. City police chief BK Upadhyay also on Wednesday announced ‘Covid Yoddha Yojana’ as part of community policing. Every police station would rope in 30-35 ‘Covid Yoddhas’ or warriors as ‘Special Police Officers’ who would work as ambassadors of ‘social distance’. Every police station would also hire six autorickshaws with loudspeakers for creating awareness at congested places, especially slums and markets. They will be manned by a Covid Yoddha and police personnel. Following a joint review meeting involving different government agencies and video-conferencing of top cops with director general of police (DGP) Subhodh K Jaiswal, city police top brass have issued the latest direction to modify some enforcement plans. Guardian minister Nitin Raut, who was present in the review meeting, told TOI he had asked police to be stricter against curfew violators. He also sounded disappointed with city police having issued large numbers of passes to public for essential commodities and emergency services. Upadhyay said the police’s focus would now be on the hotspots, containment areas and crowd control as public are showing restlessness. “Every day, we are taking legal action on violators in large numbers. With the new guidelines expected on April 20, we need to wait and watch for the local variations and frame our strategies accordingly,” he said. Joint CP Ravindra Kadam said more intense action was expected in the new phase of lockdown in terms of enforcement of social distancing and related norms. He also indicated tougher approach depending on the circumstances. On Wednesday, city police detained 37 persons found on the road without permission. In all, 189 cases were registered for various violations in the city. Police also seized 19 vehicles. SP Balsing Rajput of state cyber security cell informed that 201 cases were registered across the state for posting fake news and hate messages. City police’s cyber cell, under DCP Shweta Khedkar, also rounded up three persons for spreading rumours on social media about the unidentified person spitting on the road to spread corona. The posts were deleted apart from warning notices served to the three.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/now-no-pillion-on-bike-just-one-passenger-in-car/articleshow/75170337.cms||---
April 16, 2020||Hyderabad||141 liquor bottles seized, two arrested in Hyderabad||HYDERABAD: Police seized 141 liquor bottles from a car in Vanasthalipuram in the wee hours of Wednesday amid the nationwide lockdown. The two accused, Rakesh Reddy and Srinivas Reddy, were subsequently arrested for travelling with liquor during the lockdown in the state. During investigation, it was revealed that the duo had sourced the liquor bottles from a wine shop in Hayathnagar. One of the accused is a partner at the said wine shop. They told the police that they had procured the liquor for a function they were hosting at home. “The accused claimed that they were taking the stock to their residence, where they were planning to organize a function,’’ Vanasthalipuram inspector A Venkataiah said. Police personnel said that transporting liquor bottles from a seized wine shop during the lockdown period is a violation of Excise Act and thus, a case was registered against the two.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/141-liquor-bottles-seized-2-arrested/articleshow/75169627.cms||---
April 16, 2020||Bhopal||All cops on frontline Covid duty only working 8 hours to ensure they get enough rest||Bhopal: As 14 cops and their 16 family members have tested Covid-19 positive in the city so far, the senior police officials are working hard to boost the morale of the on-duty personnel. With police personnel staying away from their families amid the pandemic, it has become important to keep them motivated, said officials. Police have already arranged for a doctor to counsel the cops working on the field about their doubts on coronavirus. SP (South) Sai Krishna S Thota said that police have asked senior physician Dr Gurudatt Tiwari to visit the control room for an hour daily and counsel the police personnel.ASP Zone-1 Rajat Saklecha said, police personnel are working as frontline Covid-19 warriors and stritcly enforcing the lockdown. Many initiatives have been taken to boost the morale of the cops and their families. The duty hours of all cops have been reduced to eight hours so that they get proper time to rest. They are being provided masks, gloves and sanitisers regularly for their personal safety. Senior police officials keep on interacting with the cops on checkposts for updates. They also visit the hotels and lodges where the cops are staying to check on them and resolve their problems, if any. Saklecha said that as advised by the doctors, the police personnel are being provided hot water to drink, for which 300 thermos bottles have been distributed. Arrangement of hot water has been done at all the police stations. The cops are provided personal medical kit in which ayurvedic, homeopathic and allopathic medicines are provided to them. The families of police personnel, who tested positive, are being shifted to a quarantine centre at Govindpura police lines. Police teams are taking care of their food and other needs.ASP Saklecha said, police personnel deployed at containment zones are provided PPE kits and are instructed to take all necessary precautions. The cops are being provided fruits rich in Vitamin C to boost their immunity. Police — in association with members of society — are providing canopies or big umbrellas to the policemen deployed at checkpoints.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/all-cops-on-frontline-covid-duty-only-working-8-hours-to-ensure-they-get-enough-rest/articleshow/75168335.cms||---
April 16, 2020||Nagpur||Kalamna shut, APMC shifts markets to zones||Nagpur: With Covid-19 cases rising in the city, the Agriculture Produce Market Committee (APMC) has decided to keep the only the wholesale Kalamna vegetable market in east Nagpur closed. “As an alternative, growers and wholesale traders will work with the Nagpur Municipal Corporation (NMC) to keep makeshift vegetable markets at open places in nine zones operational,” said APMC chairman Nandkishore Gour. In a statement, Gour said that the decision was taken by the administration in view of the Covid-19 scenario. Apart from vegetable growers, wholesalers will also operate from temporary markets set up by the civic body. The Kalamna market will remain closed till further orders, informed Gour. According to the APMC decision, wholesale traders will set up shop at the Jaitala weekly bazaar, Ram Nagar ground, Yeshwant Stadium, Jaitala weekly market, Ramnagar playground, Yeshwant Stadium, the open space at Indraprasth Society (Kalode Mahavidyalay, Beltarodi road), Pipla Road (near Dhage’s bungalow), Unthkhana ground (opposite Tata Capitol Heights), Bhagwan Nagar playground (near post office), Balaji Nagar ground (near Velu Corner), Renuka Vihar Colony ground, Narendra Nagar NIT ground, Shrinagar ground (Darshan Colony), stadium off Tajbagh Road (near PF office), Dighori ground (old Bagadganj), Sardara Wallabhai Patel playground (Kucchivisa Bhavan, near Satnami Nagar), Bhaskar Vyas ground (east Wardhaman Nagar), Deepak Nagar (Uppalwadi Road), Nara Road, Krishna Dham (Zingabai Takli) and Gumnam Lawns (Gorewada).||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/kalamna-shut-apmc-shifts-markets-to-zones/articleshow/75169649.cms||Proshun Chakraborty
April 16, 2020||Vadodara||Dozens to be put in quarantine||Vadodara: Dozens of persons in different mosques in the city will be put under quarantine soon. The detection of crime branch (DCB) has tracked down the mosques where people from Sihor in Bhavnagar had visited during their stay here. One of them had tested positive for coronavirus and has been put in quarantine in Bhavnagar. “We tracked down five mosques in Raopura, Undera, Kadak Bazaar, Lalkui and one near Nyay Mandir where people had visited during their stay here last month apart from an apartment in Akota and a village in Padra taluka. We have also traced the persons who came in contact with them. All of them will be put under quarantine,” said Jaydeepsinh Jadeja, DCP (crime). The cops have also learnt that 13 students of different universities in the city were staying at a madrassa in Nagarwad. All of them left between March 20 and March 24. “The respective police stations have been asked to trace them,” Jadeja added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/dozens-to-be-put-in-quarantine/articleshow/75166663.cms||---
April 16, 2020||Thiruvananthapuram||CM debunks opposition’s Sprinklr data leak theory||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM: Turning aggressively vocal against the opposition UDF’s allegations of serious lapses and secretive deal for selling sensitive data in the name of anti-Covid activities in state government’s agreement with US-based Sprinklr Inc, chief minister Pinarayi Vijayan said on Wednesday that ‘such campaigns were not in favour of the state getting benefit from most modern analytics and data management tools’. “The government is not being secretive, and the agreement has all the legal validity. The American company, run by a Malayali, has the best statistical analysis system (SAS) and all precautions have been taken against any possibility of data leak. This is an unnecessary discussion, which will destroy the unity in the state’s fight to contain spread of the virus,” the CM said. The CM’s clarifications on the collection of data of Covid-19 suspects in the state came after the government published on its official portal all documents related to the agreement with the US firm. The documents included clarifications from Sprinklr on its privacy policy, the non-disclosure agreement and other clauses in the order form and the Master Services Agreement.  “The agreement expires on September 24 and there will be a pricing only if the contract is extended,” the CM said. Among the documents published was the ‘affirmation letter’, sent by Dan Haley, the general counsel of Sprinklr via email on April 12, to ‘reaffirm mutual understanding of data rights and confidentiality obligations’ in the agreement. “Kerala retains all rights to and responsibility for customer data uploaded to or accessed by the Sprinklr platform,” the letter said. Docus fabricated: Ramesh Meanwhile, alleging that the ‘affirmation letters’ (sent on April 11 and 12) from Sprinklr were fabricated after he raised the issue on April 10, opposition leader Ramesh Chennithala said these letters have no legal validity. .||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/thiruvananthapuram/cm-debunks-oppositions-sprinklr-data-leak-theory/articleshow/75166719.cms||---
April 16, 2020||Nashik||Covid Care Centres to treat people with mild symptoms in rural areas||Nashik: District collector Suraj Mandhare on Wednesday informed that the entire machinery is focussed on bringing down the number of Covid-19 positive cases for which necessary steps are being taken. “As part of the three-tier treatment facility for Covid-19 as mooted by the central government, we will have Covid Care Centres in rural areas where people even with mild symptoms will be tested and treated. This will not only ensure early intervention and correction but also lead to timely containment of the areas,” Mandhare said. The district collector was speaking to the reporters after a video conference conducted by union cabinet secretary with the state chief secretaries across the country. “It is too early to decide on how the restrictions will ease and where. We have received some instructions today (Wednesday). We will study it and an action plan will be drawn accordingly in couple of days. However, the most important step is about ensuring the early intervention facility,” Mandhare said. Civil surgeon Dr Suresh Jagdale said that hospitals under the jurisdiction of Nashik Municipal Corporation (NMC), Malegaon Municipal Corporation (MMC) and in rural ares have been identified to treat patients only with mild symptoms. Such patients are around 70%. "A set of other hospitals, Covid Health Centres, will tackle the patients with the moderate systems and Covid Hospitals — at the district headquarters only — will treat the patients who are serious," he said. Jagdale added that they were keeping a close watch on Server Acute Respiratory Illness (SARI) cases as well. "People who have fever and cough, and suddenly develops respiratory problems fall in the SARI category. At this point in time, there is no such patient in Nashik," he said. Meanwhile, in Malegaon, the sub-divisional office of Vijayanand Sharma has issued orders for complete lockdown in the town till April 30 in the wake of Covid-19 patients being found there. "No person will come out of the house for any reason other than buying groceries and vegetables – which will be allowed only till 12pm. After noon only exclusive milk delivery centres will keep functioning," the office said in its orders issued on Wednesday. All banks have also been closed till April 20 to avoid people coming out of the house for withdrawing money. Sharma has also announced that no citizens will be allowed to go out of Malegaon and nobody from outside will be allowed to enter the city under any circumstances . "Sale of petrol and diesel will be allowed only for vehicles asscociated with essential services," he said. Additional police force in Malegaon The Nashik rural police has added one more unit of the State Reserve Police Force (SRPF) in Malegaon in order to stop people from moving out of their houses and contain the spread of Covid-19. The additional police force has also been sought from neighbouring districts to ensure that people stay indoors. Superintendent of police (Nashik rurla) Arti Singh said that currently they have a force of over 1,200 personnel deployed across Malegaon. "We have also started using two drone cameras to keep a check on residents who violate the lockdown orders in Malegaon," she said. "Apart from capturing the footage of people moving on the streets, the public announcement system on the drones is being used to make appeals to the people for staying indoors," she added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/covid-care-centres-to-treat-people-with-mild-symptoms-in-rural-areas/articleshow/75169650.cms||Abhilash Botekar
April 16, 2020||Mangaluru||Youth’s death not due to coronavirus: DHO||Mangaluru: The authorities heaved a sigh of relief after the reports of a 27-year-old man, who died in a private hospital here on Tuesday, turned out to be negative for coronavirus. The man from Surathkal, 18km from here, suffered from acute stomach pain and breathing issues since the past four days. Worker at a chicken shop in the city, he was under medical care at a nursing home in Surathkal. He was shifted to a private hospital in Mangaluru after his condition aggravated on Tuesday. He died within minutes of reaching the hospital, said district health and family welfare officer Ramachandra Bairy. An official communique confirmed the overnight development after the throat swab of the deceased youth was sent for tests. Dr Y Bharath Shetty, Mangaluru City North MLA, affirmed the same in a tweet. “Testing is completed and it’s COVID Negative. The person who expired yesterday was due to some other Health Ailments. There is no need to panic related to said case (sic),” he tweeted. Surathkal forms part of his constituency. Dr Bairy said the deceased had no history of either domestic and or foreign travel and did not meet anyone declared Covid-19 positive. The district had remained Covid-19 free for the past 10 days and the number of active cases has dropped to three and nine patients have been discharged thus far.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mangaluru/youths-death-not-due-to-coronavirus-dho/articleshow/75165427.cms||---
April 16, 2020||Kochi||Heart surgery performed on one-day-old Tamil Nadu baby in Kochi||KOCHI: Amid the Covid gloom comes a story of hope and goodwill. Doctors in Kochi performed a successful heart surgery on a one-day-old ‘blue’ baby on Wednesday morning after the infant was brought in an ambulance by road from Tamil Nadu on Tuesday night. The permission to transport the baby along with parents in the extended lockdown period was granted by the two state governments, after tests confirmed that they were Covid-19 negative. The baby had a congenital heart condition called ‘transposition of the great arteries’ in which the two main arteries –– the pulmonary artery and aorta –– carrying blood away from the heart are switched. Due to this, the oxygen-poor (‘blue’) blood returning from the body is pumped out to the aorta and to the body, while the oxygen-rich (‘red’) blood returning from the lungs is sent back to the lungs via the pulmonary artery, leading to deprivation of necessary oxygen in the body. The incidence is estimated at 1 in 3,500-5,000 live births and if left untreated, over 50% of infants with transposition die in the first month of life and 90% in the first year. “The surgery lasted about 6 hours and the arteries were replaced to its normal position. Baby’s condition is improving,” said Dr Edwin Francis, head, paediatric cardiology, Lisie Hospital. The baby, belonging to a couple from Nagercoil, was diagnosed with the condition before birth and it was decided that couple would come to Lisie Hospital two weeks before delivery and the baby would be operated. But the baby was delivered pre-maturely early on Tuesday morning at a private hospital in Nagercoil. Immediately after birth, the infant was put on ventilators and other life-saving medications. “The baby was detected with the congenital problem a month back and was delivered by an emergency caesarean procedure on Tuesday. Soon after birth it was decided to bring the child here,” said Dr Francis. In the meantime, Lisie authorities contacted district collector S Suhas, who sought permission from chief minister Pinarayi Vijayan. With the government of Tamil Nadu also giving its nod, an ambulance and staff was sent from Kochi to bring the baby. “Our staff was sent to reduce the infection risk,” added Dr Francis. The ambulance that left from Nagercoil around 6pm, reached Kochi by 10.30pm on Tuesday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/heart-surgery-performed-on-1-day-old-tn-baby-in-kochi/articleshow/75166688.cms||---
April 16, 2020||Nashik||Police notification on extension of lockdown||Nashik: The city police has come out with a notification of extending the curfew orders clamped in the city to contain the spread of Covid-19. The notification comes after Prime Minister Narendra Modi addressed the nation on April 14 annoucing the extension of the nationwide lockdown till May 3. The notification says that five or more people will not gather at any public, private or religious programmme. All kinds of programmes including cultural programmes, festivals, celebrations, fairs, entertainment programmes, sports programmes would not be allowed until May 3. Similarly, no workshops or camps, training programmes, meetings, processions, agitations, tours within the country or abroad would be permitted. At the same time clubs, sports grounds, swimming pools, gardens, jogging tracks, cinema halls, schools, colleges, private coaching classes, gymnasiums, etc would also be closed until May 3.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/police-notification-on-extension-of-lockdown/articleshow/75169654.cms||---
April 16, 2020||Nashik||Homesick workers feel the mental strain, want to go home||Nashik/ Kolhapur/Aurangabad: Migrant workers from across the country, stranded in various shelter camps in the state, are increasingly getting homesick and want to return to their families. Most of them say that though they are not wanting for food or shelter at these camps, being away from their loved ones is taking a toll on their mental health. Some also need to start preparing their fields for the upcoming sowing season. “We have finished the lockdown period. None of us has contracted any disease or has Covid-19-like symptoms. Then why are we still not being released?” asked Ajit Singh, one of the workers currently housed in the social justice department hostel of the Nashik Municipal Corporation (NMC). “We stayed here. We obeyed all orders. But now we are getting homesick,” added Maroof Mohammed, a migrant worker from UP, who has been staying at the NMC school in Swarbaba Nagar, near Satpur police station. The regular meals, health check-ups and yoga sessions cannot take their minds off from their families. “If you ask us ‘How are you?’, we would all say ‘Very happy’. But inside, we are sad. Our children think the police have put us in the lockup. They say if other workers from Delhi could take buses to get to their villages, then why can’t we. These thoughts are causing mental stress,” said Jiten Singh, another worker who had started for his home along with 50 others from Vasai. The migrants, who were stopped by the Satpur police while they were travelling by a container, said they are willing to go to their home district without stopping anywhere on the way. “We started in the truck for our homes in Shravasthi district, UP. If the government allows us, we will get back into our truck, that may be sealed, and go to the hospital in our district. We will follow all government orders there,” said Pappu Khan, the driver of the group. “The government can also put us on any road transport vehicle or train under the watchful eyes of the police and drop us at the health centres in our home district,” another worker Kush Singh said. In Kolhapur, workers who migrate from Beed and other districts in western Maharashtra during the sugar cane crushing season to make some money as cane cutters, too are in a bind. They are eager to return home and start work on their fields for the kharif season. The kharif crop helps sustain these families till the next crushing season. “We are sitting idle here. If we do not go home and start preparing our fields, we will not be able to feed our families,” said a sugar cane cutter. Like many other cane cutters, he has been put up at a sugar mill in Kolhapur. In fact, according to the Kolhapur district administration, as many as 16,000 sugar cane cutters, along with their families and cattle, are staying in seven sugar mills. The sugar mills have arranged for their stay and food. The workers are also worried about their relatives at home. “Our elders are still in our villages. Who will take care of them?” asked the cane cutter. Last week, the Kolhapur police had taken action against some cane cutters who were attempting to flee the district in trucks. The police managed to convince them to stay put and told them that they will be allowed to leave only after the lockdown has been lifted. Meanwhile, in the eight districts of the Marathwada region, the number of migrant workers and others in the 218 relief camps has gone up to 20,764. As per official data, the respective district administrations in the region are running 136 camps, while the government labour department is managing 80 camps. Two others are operated by sugar mills here. “Social distancing norms dictate the number of inmates in each camp. The total number has gone past 20,000. This proves that the arrangement is functioning satisfactorily,” divisional authorities said. Besides food and shelter, the camps are also providing counselling to the stranded workers.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/homesick-workers-feel-the-mental-strain-want-to-go-home/articleshow/75169658.cms||---
April 16, 2020||Bhopal||City chemists flout govt order, fail to display stock and price list of masks, sanitisers||Bhopal: Chemist shops not displaying the stock and price list of masks and sanitizers, despite the fact –it’s nearly a month since the Madhya Pradesh government imposed the Essential Commodities Act on masks and hand sanitizers on March 21 and framed the Madhya Pradesh mask (2-ply and 3-ply surgical mask and N 95 mask) and hand sanitizer control order 2020. As per orders, traders will have to exhibit the ‘available stock of masks and sanitizers and also display their prices on boards’. Sources said that the major reason for shops not displaying rates and stocks is the fact that if rates are displayed, then it will not be possible to sell the masks and sanitizers at the desired prices because consumers will start arguing. But in absence of proper checks from the drug administration department, consumers are the ones who are losing out, said sources. On Wednesday, TOI visited chemist shops in several areas of the city — Jawahar Chowk, Shivaji Nagar, MP Nagar, Baghmughalia, Katara Hills, etc. None of them had displayed any stock and rate list. At majority of the outlets, masks are being sold at Rs 20 per piece, despite the fact that the March 21 order of the government state, “Food inspectors will have the right to inspect records and stock of any shop. It could not be sold above the prices prescribed as per the notification of the Union government, which specified that the cost of 2-ply masks will not be more than Rs 8 and cost of 3-ply masks will not be more than Rs 10 per piece. Retail prices of sanitizers shall not be more than Rs 100 per 200 ml bottle.” The order further read, “The trader shall display information of available stock and the sale price of mask (2ply and 3 ply surgical mask, N95 mask) and hand sanitizer on a board fixed at a conspicuous place in its transaction premise daily”. “The trader shall not refuse to sell the essential commodities mentioned in clause 3 to any consumer,” said the order. When contacted over the issue, senior officials claimed that they had made announcements and also informed chemist associations about the orders. When asked what action has been taken, the officials said that announcements have been made at several places and written notices have been issued to associations. Deputy drug controller, Bhopal, Shobhit Kosta, said, “We have made announcements in Dawa Bazar, MP Nagar, Patel market and other areas. Letters have been issued to chemist associations. I have also instructed the drug inspectors to ensure compliance of the instructions issued by the government. Action would be further intensified in the city.” Sources, however, said hardly any action has been taken against shopkeepers for not displaying stocks and price list in their shops.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/city-chemists-flout-govt-order-fail-to-display-stock-and-price-list-of-masks-sanitisers/articleshow/75168400.cms||---
April 16, 2020||Kozhikode||Kannur: Teacher held for abuse of minor in school toilet||KANNUR: A primary school teacher was arrested for sexually abusing a minor girl inside the school toilet near Panoor, police said on Wednesday. The accused, Kuniyil Padmarajan, was arrested after registering a case under the Protection of Children from Sexual Offences (Pocso) Act on March 17. He was a local leader of BJP in Thrippangottur. The delay in arresting the accused even after registering the case four weeks ago had triggered widespread protest. The Congress, on Wednesday, staged a protest outside the district police chief’s office. A special investigation team was formed after various groups, too, protested, leading to the arrest by the team under Thalassery DSP K V Venugopalan. Police said the accused had been abusing the Class IV student in the school toilet since January 15. The incident came to light when her parents became suspicious on seeing her reluctance to go to school. On knowing the reason, the parents alerted the Childline and police. The Childline recorded the child’s statement before the FIR was registered. The girl gave a statement to a magistrate in Mattannur also. Police’s search for the accused went in vain since he was not found at home though his mobile phone was seized from there. It was also suspected that he had fled the state. Meanwhile, it was also alleged that some police officers had tortured the child mentally in the guise of recording her statement, and that the accused was being protected. The CPM, too, had at one stage protested the delay in arresting the man. The protests gained momentum over the past two days. The matter was also brought to the attention of K K Shailaja, minister for health and family welfare since the crime was reported from her constituency. (The victim's identity has not been revealed to protect her privacy as per Supreme court directives on cases related to sexual assault)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kozhikode/teacher-held-for-abuse-of-minor-in-school-toilet/articleshow/75166725.cms||---
April 16, 2020||Mumbai||Dongri, Bhendi Bazar cases spike to 46 from 2 in 10 days||MUMBAI: B Ward, which comprises the congested localities of Dongri, Mohammed Ali Road and Bhendi Bazar, may be fast becoming a new Covid-19 hotspot in the city, after Worli (G-South Ward), Byculla (E Ward), and Malabar Hill and Girgaon (D Ward). The B Ward that had just two patients 10 days ago reported 46 cases by Wednesday morning, ringing alarm bells among civic and state health officials. With the increase, the ward has jumped 13 places to rank 11 in the number of patients, from one with the least cases at 24 on April 4. A total of 1.3 lakh people reside within just 2.8 sq km area of B Ward. Officials attribute the spike to the fact that several people are crammed into small homes. B Ward is also adjacent to E and D wards, which rank number two and three, respectively. MLA Amin Patel said, “This ward has old cessed structures with smaller houses, common toilets and each family has five-six members. So, we can’t offer an immediate solution.” About 150 residents are quarantined so far.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/dongri-bhendi-bazar-cases-spike-to-46-from-2-in-10-days/articleshow/75169678.cms||Sujit Mahamulkar
April 16, 2020||Hubballi||2 suspended for being absent at checkpost||Hubballi: Dharwad deputy commissioner Deepa Cholan suspended an FDA and SDA of the Karnataka BNCC commanding office in Vidyanagar on Wednesday on charges of neglecting their duties and remaining absent at the Covid-19 checkpost at Old Mantur Road, near Bammapur, in Hubballi. FDA Ravindra and SDA Mahesh Dundur have been suspended pending departmental inquiry. Their suspension came based on the report submitted by the Hubballi Urban tahsildar.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hubballi/2-suspended-for-being-absent-at-checkpost/articleshow/75165480.cms||---
April 16, 2020||Agra||Within 24 hours of launch, SETU helpline gets orders weighing 40 tonnes from across country||Agra: Within 24 hours of launch, SETU helpline controlled and operated by a bunch of IRTS officers, including probationers, received delivery orders weighing 40 tonnes of goods from across the country. The orders were received from cities such as Agra, Badaun, Banswara, Bardhman, Bhagalpur, Bhilwara, Bilaspar, Dhanbad, Goa, Hyderabad, Khasipur, Madhubani, Meerut, Mumbai, New Delhi and Surat. According to railway officials, the pharmaceutical sector was the first to take up the service, launched as a pilot project on Monday. The consignment consist of PPE, critical medicines, including for cancer, asthma, raw material for making mask, medicine blisters and other goods Dr Sanchit Tyagi, senior divisional commercial manager (Sr DCM) of the Prayagraj division of North Central railway who came up with the initiative, confirmed that in just 24 hours, SETU received and delivered nearly 40 tonnes of goods delivery order. “The orders included 200 grams of medicine from Delhi to Banswara (Rajasthan), 500 grams of other life-saving drugs from Agra to Madhubani, Delhi to Bhagalpur, 66 kg pharmaceutical products from Prayagraj to Banda and 80 kg medicines from Delhi to Agra. Further, the Setu helpline also delivered 10 tonnes of industrial material for mask making from Bhilwara to Surat and 2,000 kgs of medicine packaging material from Meerut to Goa. SETU also received 60 tonnes of orders for fertiliser delivery,” he said. Fifteen Indian Railways Traffic Service (IRTS) probationers based at Udaipur training center, led by Tyagi and senior divisional operation manager (SrDOM) Manu Dubey with active support from Sr DOM Mumbai Suhani Mishra, Sanjay Kumar the additional traffic manager (ATM) Tundla, area officers Mallela Srikant and Visharl Arjun of Ramagundam and Krishnapatnam Port respectively make up the Setu team. “No matter what the destination, the railway parcel service will deliver the item. It works like Amazon,” Tyagi added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/agra/within-24-hours-of-launch-setu-helpline-gets-orders-weighing-40-tonnes-from-across-country/articleshow/75168385.cms||Arvind Chauhan
April 16, 2020||Kozhikode||Kin of Palakkad patient negative||PALAKKAD: All six primary contacts of the family members of R Rajaekharan Chettiyar, who died in Coimbatore hospital, tested negative for Covid-19. One more result is awaiting confirmation, health department sources here said. Two doctors of the district who had treated the Nurani native, who later died in Coimbatore hospital last Friday and tested Covid-19 positive, are under observation. Tamil Nadu government had informed the Kerala government about the deceased person being affected by Covid-19, district medical officer (DMO) Dr K P Reetha said 25 persons, including two doctors and 19 nurses of the private hospital in Coimbatore where the deceased person went for treatment, are under observation. 2 discharged in Palakkad Two persons who were Covid-19 positive and under treatment in the district hospital were discharged on Wednesday as they tested negative, leaving just two patients in the district under treatment. The discharged persons are from Kavilpad in Palakkad town who tested Covid-19 positive on March 27 and an East Ottapalam native who tested positive on April 4, said district medical officer Dr K P Reetha. Their primary contacts also tested Covid-19 negative, the DMO said. There were eight patients in the district and six were discharged last week, and the remaining two under treatment in district hospital are awaiting another Covid-19 test.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kozhikode/kin-of-palakkad-patient-negative/articleshow/75166753.cms||---
April 16, 2020||Delhi||Delhi: We don’t want food, just let us go home, say migrants||NEW DELHI: Shahdat Ansari, a daily wager at a bag manufacturing unit, spent the last three weeks in a cramped rented room with four others in south Delhi’s Khirki Extension hoping to return to his village in Bihar’s Madhubani district when the lockdown was lifted on April 14. The government’s decision to extend the lockdown has dashed the 37-year-old’s hopes to soon be with his aged parents, wife and two kids. “I am tired of being locked up. I don’t want food, I just want to be back in my village with my family,” Ansari said, standing behind an iron gate leading to a small complex of six residential buildings where rooms have been rented out to over 2,000 migrant labourers from Bihar, Jharkhand, Bengal and Odisha. Ansari and almost everyone living there have not earned even a single rupee since the lockdown from March 25. Some attempted to set out for their villages in the last week of March, but police forced them to make a hasty retreat. They have been locked up in their rooms since then, sleeping or watching videos on their mobile phones and giving emotional support to each other. “We don’t want any other thing from the central or state government. Lock down the country for nine months to save us from the coronavirus, but please let us go back home for god’s sake,” exclaimed Madhav Mandal. SK Manirul, an artisan working with a fashion designer in Shahpur Jat, and his three friends had even got their tickets reserved for the train ride back to their homes in Howrah district of West Bengal but the extended lockdown has paid put to their plans. “We have exhausted our savings and have food for just 2-3 days. Nobody is willing to give us dry rations on credit. It is easy to survive in the village without money, not in a city,” said Manirul, who lives with 16 other artisans working for fashion designers. The designers they worked for have washed their hands of and told them to contact them only after the lockdown. “Our employers have turned their phones off,” said a disgusted Bidhan Majhi. Though Delhi government has opened over 1,500 hunger relief centres to provide cooked food, the migrants feel that is not enough. “We have not had a proper cup of tea for almost a week since we can’t buy milk. There is no money to buy soap to wash our clothes,” said Guddu Singh, a native of Balia in UP, who works with a transporter at Sarai Kale Khan. “My friend suffers from high blood pressure but he does not have money for medicines. Merely providing rice and kadhi or chhole does not solve our problem.” According to Anjali Bhardwaj, founder member of Delhi Rozi Roti Adhikar Abhiyan, a not-for-profit organisation working for the rights of the poor, about 70% of Delhi’s workforce is engaged in the unorganised sector and only a small percentage is registered with the government as construction workers or public-service badge holders. A large number are hawkers or rickshaw and cart pullers. Bhardwaj said it was time that the government provided a basic minimum income to everyone. “All migrant workers are willing to return to their villages, but can’t. The cost of living is very high in Delhi and they have no savings left,” she said. Bhardwaj added that the government should provide foodgrain and other items to all the affected needy without getting into the complicated system of registering them on a portal and issuing e-coupons. “To ensure that nobody gets the dry rations twice, the authorities can put a mark on their fingers with indelible ink for easy identification,” Bhardwaj suggested. Meanwhile, people like Dharmesh haven’t lost hope yet. A resident of Possangipur village in west Delhi, he had packed his bags to leave for his village in Bihar's Purnea district on April 15. Forced by the cops to stay back in the capital, he takes out his rickshaw every day hoping to find a passenger and earn some money to take care of his family of seven. “My wife’s employer has asked her not to report for work, but I can’t afford to sit back home. Though there is nobody on the roads to ask me to take them somewhere in my rickshaw, I still go out in the hope that I wall earn something that day,” Dharmesh said, but added in a morose tone, “Nobody will let us leave the city and there’s nobody to take care of us either. I think we will die of starvation here.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/delhi-we-dont-want-food-just-let-us-go-home-say-migrants/articleshow/75169704.cms||Atul Mathur
April 16, 2020||Nashik||Industries in rural areas to begin operations from April 20||Nashik: Over 2,500 small, medium and large industrial units in rural parts of the district are likely to begin operations from April 20 as per the guidelines issued by the union ministry of home affairs. A meeting between Nashik Industries & Manufacturers’ Association (NIMA) and district administration was held on Wednesday in view of the new guidelines issued by the Centre. As per the guidelines, industries in rural parts, barring industries located in the limits of municipal corporations and municipalities, may start operations on condition of maintaining social distancing between workers along with other sanitation measures. "The Centre has issued guidelines regarding industrial operations in rural areas. Industries falling in this bracket are to be allowed to start their operations against certain conditions. An order in this regard will soon be released by the district collector," resident deputy collector Bhagwat Doifode said. "We had a meeting with the office-bearers of NIMA where we told them to provide us with a list of industries in rural parts of the district that may start operations as per the Centre’s guidelines," he added. NIMA president Shashikant Jadhav said, "The industries in rural parts can start operations, but they will have to take permission from the district administration." He added, "We have also sought district administration’s nod for letting the industries in Satpur and Ambad industrial estates to function. But the decision regarding industries falling under the municipal corporation limits are expected to be taken by the administration in a day or two." The centre has also allowed food processing industries in rural parts to resume operations. "Nashik is known as the wine capital of the country as there are over 30 wineries across the district. The district administration had allowed the wineries to start crushing grapes even during the lockdown. Thus, most of the wineries are operational and crushing grapes," an office-bearer of All India Wine Producers’ Association (AIWPA) said. "The ready-to-harvest vineyards were badly affected because of the lockdown. Grape farmers were even unable to pluck grapes due to lack of workers. Transporting the produce was another problem. Thus, the district administration had given permission to wineries so that they may buy table grapes in order to provide some relief to grape farmers. Accordingly, wineries procured around 7,000 tonne of table grapes to make wine," he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/industries-in-rural-areas-to-begin-operations-from-april-20/articleshow/75169683.cms||Tushar Pawar
April 16, 2020||Nashik||Avg wholsesale onion price drops 20% at Lasalgaon||Nashik: The average wholesale price of onion dropped by 20% — from Rs 1,125 per quintal on Tuesday to Rs 900 per quintal on Wednesday — at Lasalgaon APMC. According to an APMC official, there has been a rise in supply as compared to the demand, leading to the drop. "The harvest of summer onions is going on in full swing and farmers at large are bringing their produce to the wholesale markets," he said. "Some farmers are selling their summer produce owing to requirement of money. This has overall led to drop in average wholesale onion price at Lasalgaon. The availability of late kharif onions has also come done. Only few quintals of late kharif onions were sold at Lasalgaon on Wednesday," he added. According to sources, the average wholesale onion price may drop further as the demand for onion is expected to reduce during the holy month of Ramzan — from April 24 and to May 23. "Muslims do not eat onions during Ramzan and prefer eating fruits and dry fruits. Hence, the average wholesale onion price may drop further by Rs 200 per quintal once Ramzan begins. But the price trend will again move north after Ramzan," one of the sources at APMC said. Currently, the onions coming to the market are summer onions that have a shelf life of six months. Hence, farmers have an option to store the produce and sell at better rate when the market situation improves. The minimum and maximum wholesale prices of summer onions were recorded at Rs 700 and Rs 1,119 per quintal, respectively. Over 21,000 quintal of onions were auctioned at Lasalgaon on Wednesday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/avg-wholsesale-onion-price-drops-20-at-lasalgaon/articleshow/75169675.cms||Tushar Pawar
April 16, 2020||Chennai||Tamil Nadu: Woman seen off by labour minister tests positive||CHENNAI: Labour minister Nilofer Kafeel visited a marriage hall at Vaniyambadi in Vellore district on April 9 to bid farewell to a group of 35 women and children sent for home quarantine after being kept in isolation. On Monday, one of the women in the group tested positive, setting off alarm bells. The minister had attended a cabinet meeting convened by chief minister Edappadi K Palaniswami on April 11. Until Wednesday evening, Nilofer Kafeel had neither been screened nor quarantined. “The Vellore administration had decided to release the group of women and children for home quarantine. Naturally, I had to visit them and present a bouquet as they are residents of my constituency,” said Nilofer Kafeel. “They were all negative then,” she told TOI. The minister said she did not meet the entre group of women and children, but just the one woman, who came out of the hall to ask her to convey her gratitude to the chief minister. The woman, who met her, has tested negative, Nilofer Kafeel said. ‘Minister didn’t come in contact with anyone who tested positive’Health minister C Vijayabaskar said he inquiredwiththedistrict officials and there was “no issue” since the minister did not come in to contact with anyone who tested positive. The Tirupattur district officials said eight people attended the Tablighi Jamaat conference in New Delhi in March. Of them, two tested positive and were admitted to the Vaniyambadi government hospital. Later, 52 contacts and family members of the TJ attendees, who tested both positive and negative, were taken to the marriage hall and a private college on April 3. The men were taken to the college, while the women and children to the marriage hall and isolated based on their relation to positive and negative cases. “Initially, it was decided to take them to the isolation centre to protect locals from getting infected. Following pressure “from certain quarters and representations”, it was decided to send all of them for home quarantine after samples collected on April 6 from 12 contacts and family members of positive cases turned out to be negative,” said an official source. Kafeel, who had been distributing fruits and milk to the inmates, all through their stay at the isolation centre, visited them again on April 9 to hand over bouquets in the presence of senior officials. The remaining people at the centre were not tested and were sent in school buses for home quarantine. Two days later, on April11, those who reached their homes were tested and one 48-year-old woman tested positive, sources said. Tirupattur collector M P Sivan Arul could not be reached for comment.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/woman-seen-off-by-min-tests-ve/articleshow/75169686.cms||Julie Mariappan
April 16, 2020||Kozhikode||Expats want medical teams to be sent to Gulf||MALAPPURAM: As India is yet to take a call on evacuating its citizens stranded in the Gulf countries, the expatriate communities across the Middle East are demanding the government to take an immediate decision on sending medical teams to help Indians stranded there. Earlier, a team of doctors and healthcare professionals was sent to Kuwait to supplement the efforts of the Kuwait government to fight Covid-19. The organizations are demanding a similar intervention from the government in other Gulf countries too. Jeddah Indian Media Forum has already approached external affairs minister S Jaishankar raising the demand, and different units of Kerala Muslim Cultural Centre (KMCC), a leading organization of NRKs in GCC countries, are also pressing for a decision on sending medical teams. In a letter sent to the external affairs minister, Jeddah Indian Media Forum in Saudi Arabia has pointed out that a large number of Indians there are still not availing treatment due to their ignorance or negligence and some people who have Covid-19 symptoms have not yet undergone any tests and people who are Covid-19 positive are not getting admitted to the hospitals in a timely manner. It requested the government to explore possibilities of sending medical teams comprising doctors, nurses and paramedical staff with all necessary equipment and medicine to Jeddah, Riyadh and Dammam. “In case of a community spread in Saudi Arabia, the Centre and the Indian missions abroad have to ensure that sufficient preparations are taken to handle such a situation,” said forum general secretary Sadiqali Thuvvur. “Gulf countries have the facility to treat own citizens. But the virus infection has affected a large section of expatriate community and sudden sprout of disease has led to shortage of treatment facilities and medical staff. India can lend major support to its citizens by sending medical teams to the affected countries,” Nihamath Mankada of Dubai KMCC said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kozhikode/expats-want-medical-teams-to-be-sent-to-gulf/articleshow/75166794.cms||T P Nijeesh
April 16, 2020||Nashik||In time of crisis, heroes deliver help to the needy||Nashik: The coronavirus has not just taken a toll on the people infected by the contagion, but also on thousands of others who have either lost their livelihoods, are stranded away from home or without shelter and in some cases, completely isolated indoors without access to even basics like cooked meals and medicines. This time of crisis, however, has also brought to the fore many selfless heroes who are going above and beyond to help those in need. Help is pouring in from individuals, organisations and groups of people to lessen hardships among senior citizens, migrants, daily wage workers, homeless people and even stray animals. And this help is not just in terms of food or ration. People, especially youths, are going out to buy medicines for neighbours, women are cooking for senior citizens in their societies, some are giving tips on how to manage restless children at home or are conducting yoga classes for migrants in the shelter camps. Restaurants and dining halls are quietly operating their kitchens to provide food for the thousands of migrants. Animal groups have taken to feeding stray dogs who can no longer find food since everything is shut. The art of giving has encompassed cities and towns across the state, be it in Kolhapur, Nashik, Aurangabad or Pune. From providing food and water to the policemen on duty to distributing food packets among the needy, people have contributed in large numbers to ensure that everyone has access to at least the basic survival needs. About 100 NGOs, scores of individuals and groups led by activists and prominent citizens are working with the Aurangabad police to offer food, dry ration kits to the poor, migrant workers and the destitute. Several doctors, teachers, educationists, religious leaders, and even executives are chipping in. The police have granted permission for them to provide healthcare, ration kits, packed food and distribute other necessary articles. S P Jawalkar, a retired principal, and his group of 10 people, prepare 400 food packets for the migrant workers at the Bhalgaon camp being run from the Yashwantrao Chavan Ayurvedic Medical College, and two other camps. Abdul Husain, the 68-year-old founder of a private school, distributes dry ration kits. “It is not charity, but our contribution for the unfortunate,” Husain said. In Nashik, gurdwaras have started cooking meals while some NGOs have taken the responsibility to distribute the same. An NGO took up the distribution of milk for babies. Navin Doshi, 78, who owns a naturopathy centre in Deolali, and his team, cook two meals for 800 people every day. In Kolhapur, over 800 migrant workers and travellers are staying in 11 shelter homes. Ujjwala Khebudkar, the headmistress of Chetana Vikas School, has taken up the task to keep them engaged. “I take yoga sessions and other activities on alternate days. A migrant worker from Karnataka wanted to learn Marathi. So I bought him a notebook, pencils and introductory books on Marathi. Now, he can write some words,” she said. Activist Apurva Naniwadekar-Singh keeps children engaged. “We have made social media groups through which children are given a task every day. On one day, we may ask the children to help their parents clean the utensils or make food. On another day, we may tell them to draw something,” she said. A volunteers’ group from Kolhapur has tied up with the social welfare department to manage helplines for persons with disabilities. In Pune, the Jai Ganesh Group from Kachi Ali, is a group of self-employed persons, who have been distributing breakfast to policemen and migrants around Swargate. “We started serving food in an effort to do something for the personnel who are manning the roads 24x7 for our safety. Fifteen of us are involved and we take turns to go out and distribute the food cooked by our wives,” said Chetan Lodha, a member of the group. NGOs too are taking the lead in ensuring that help and food reach all those who need it. “ We have been distributing food packets to migrants at the shelter camps and even the poor persons in various slums in the city,” said Samaiirah from Safe Road Foundation. Youth across the city, too, has taken it upon themselves to ensure that senior citizens get everything they need without stepping out of their houses. Shruti Shete, who runs a health cafe in Pune’s Baner, has been donating groceries and green groceries at an old age home and at some slums around Balewadi since the lockdown began. (with inputs from Pune, Kolhapur and Aurangabad)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/in-time-of-crisis-heroes-deliver-help-to-the-needy/articleshow/75169687.cms||---
April 16, 2020||Hubballi||HDMC extends property tax rebate period till May 31||Dharwad: The Hubballi-Dharwad Municipal Corporation (HDMC) has offered 5% rebate in property tax for 2020-2021 if paid between April 1 and May 31. Usually, the rebate is allowed for taxes paid in April. The rebate period has been extended this year in view of the Covid-19 lockdown. The HDMC has also deferred upward revision of the property tax. Taxpayers have to pay the same amount they paid for the year 2019-2020. Urban local bodies are permitted to revise tax rates once in three years and the HDMC was supposed to revise it for the financial year 2020-2021. HDMC Commissioner Suresh Itnal said on Wednesday that the revision of tax rate has been deferred in anticipation of the government’s order. He said property owners have to obtain computerised tax challans at their zonal offices after filling the details in the prescribed booklet. If there is any change in the property, they should give a self-declaration in Form 1. Tax can be paid through NEFT or RTGS. Those paying a tax exceeding Rs 10,000 through cheque/DD can call the helpline number 0836-2213888/2213868 so that the HDMC staff will collect cheques from their homes. Those making online payment can avail assistance from the HDMC website www.hdmc.mrc.gov.in. The commissioner has appealed to those who have not paid their tax for the previous years to make the payment and help development activities of the HDMC. PAYMENT OPTIONS Hubballi Canara Bank, Koppikar Road, (A/C No: 2538106003554/IFSC code: CNRB0002538); Corporation Bank, Vidyanagar (A/C No: 2538106003554/IFSC code: CORP0000528), SBI Adarsh Nagar (A/C No: 64162342284/IFSC code: SBINOO40410); SBI, Keshwapur (A/C No: 64164577315/IFSC code: SBINOOOON846), UTI/Axis Bank, Deshpande Nagar (A/C No: 129010100041520/IFSC code: UTIB0000129), IndusInd Bank, Deshpande Nagar (A/C No: 100032405328/IFSC code: INDB0000058); Indian Overseas Bank, Koppikar Road (A/C No: 012601000202020 /IFSC code: IQBADODQ126); Indian Overseas Bank, Navanagar (A/C No: 357701000002000/IFSC code: IOBADOO3577). Dharwad Indian Overseas Bank, Jubilee Circle (A/C No: 177101000007468/IFSC code: IOBACCO1771).||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hubballi/hdmc-extends-property-tax-rebate-period-till-may-31/articleshow/75159270.cms||GURURAJ JAMKHANDI
April 16, 2020||India||Out of money, migrant workers turn impatient, start walking towards home||KOLKATA: Hundreds of migrant labourers running out of money have begun a homeward journey on foot in West Bengal, taking their existential dilemma beyond life and livelihood. Above all is their desperation to reach home even if it means breaking lockdown rules. The migration on foot has prompted the administration to set up police outposts at several points in towns and highways to prevent the trend picking up after a massive gathering of migrant workers at Bandra railway station in Mumbai on Tuesday in their desperate bid to catch a train. The movement of migrant labourers in Bengal throws up a mixed profile, both inter-state and intra-state. While some are from neighbouring states —Assam, Bihar, Jharkhand, Odisha, some others are from different districts in West Bengal. Stranded in Nadia, as many as 15,500 brick-field workers from Bihar and Jharkhand are on edge, said Nadia zilla sabhadhipati Rikta Kundu. “We are giving them food and shelter. We can’t allow them to move out. The district is under strict surveillance,” Kundu said. More on Covid-19Coronavirus pandemic: Complete Coverage21-day lockdown: What will stay open and what won'tHow to quarantine yourself at homeTrust the newspaper for your daily verified newsAnother group of 49 road labourers from Bihar has already approached the panchayat at Ranaghat’s Anulia to allow them to go back home. These workers have been spending days together without food after their contractor laid them off. “We don’t want anything more. We want to go home,” said Kali Mahato, a migrant labourer from Giridih. CPM’s Nadia functionary S M Sadi said: “We provided them food but they are not in a mood to stay back.” Many of the 3,700 labourers from South 24 Parganas, working in cold storage facilities in north Bengal, have started on foot for their homes at Raidighi, Patharpratima and other villages in the Sunderbans. Falakata police tried to prevent them from proceeding but the workers refused to return to their workplace. “We are taking care of the labourers. But I don’t know how long we will be able to hold them back. They have become desperate,” said Manoj Saha, secretary of West Bengal Cold Storage Association, north Bengal chapter. Police have also intercepted a truck from Assam carrying 40 labourers. All these labourers were pushed back to Assam after doing a health check-up. A group of 11 migrant workers from Tatanagar reached Midnapore on Wednesday on their way back home in Malda and Murshidabad. They are walking all the way. Midnapore police stopped them soon after they crossed the Kansabati bridge near Dharma and took all to Kharagpur. The same day, some workers from Howrah’s Amta entered Hooghly’s Pursuara on their way home in Birhum’s Murarai. Champadanga police provided them food and advised them to walk towards Burdwan. BJP ward convenor from Asansol Amitava Banerjee has appealed to the Bengal governor to help a group of 33 people stranded at Amrita Lodge, Durgapur, near Mission Hospital. These people had come for treatment and have nine children with them. Asansol SP has arranged cooking gas and other items for them. “We have provided them 25kg rice, 50kg atta, fruits and vegetables,” Banerjee said. Yet, these people are growing restive. On the other hand, Bengal tourists stranded in Vrindavan and patients locked down in Chennai have been sending SOS to the Bengal government to bring them back. “We have got in touch with them and also with migrant labourers stranded in other states. We will be sending some pocket money to them. I would urge them to bear with the lockdown,” chief minister Mamata Banerjee said. (With inputs from Ashis Poddar, Pinak Priya Bhattacharya, Sujoy Khanra, Falguni Banerjee and Md Asif)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/out-of-money-migrant-workers-turn-impatient-start-walking-towards-home/articleshow/75171311.cms||---
April 16, 2020||Mysuru||‘Gupta in Mysuru to supplement district administration efforts’||Mysuru: Senior bureaucrat Harsh Gupta had been deputed to Mysuru to supervise the measures taken by the district administration to contain the spread of the Covid-19 infection and not to undermine the authority of deputy commissioner Abhiram Sankar, Mysuru district in-charge minister ST Somashekar clarified on Wednesday. “The DC, Abhiram Sankar has done a very good job. Gupta is a senior IAS officer who will supplement the efforts of the district administration. We have appointed senior IAS officers to oversee the measures to curb the spread of the infection in other hotspots such as Bengaluru,” the minister said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mysuru/gupta-in-mysuru-to-supplement-district-administration-efforts/articleshow/75168017.cms||---
April 16, 2020||Hyderabad||Admissions to degree courses to face delay||HYDERABAD: Admissions to various professional courses such as engineering, medical among others are likely to be delayed with the extension of lockdown set to defer class 12 results till June. Over five lakh students appeared for the class 12 exams conducted from March 4 to March 20. With evaluation of all answer-scripts yet to commence, the results are expected to be delayed. Every year, intermediate results are declared by April third or fourth week.“We conducted spot-evaluation for one day following which the national lockdown was declared. Once the lockdown concludes, we would need 25-30 days to complete evaluation following which we should be able to declared the results,” said Telangana State Board of Intermediate Education commissioner, Omar Jaleel. After the blunders in intermediate results last year, the TSBIE is not in a rush to complete the evaluation process and is taking additional measures to ensure that the evaluation process is error-free. “Once the manual evaluations conclude, we will be utilising artificial intelligence for weeding out our errors, calculation of marks and processing of final results,” said Jaleel. With several competitive exams postponed, admission schedules will be also be affected which will have an impact on the overall academic calendar. Intermediate admissions will also be postponed as extension of lockdown has cast doubts over class 10 exams.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/admissions-to-degree-courses-to-face-delay/articleshow/75169538.cms||---
April 16, 2020||Hyderabad||Telangana: Woman breaks lockdown, sarpanch-son ‘banishes’ her||HYDERABAD: Many villages in the state are strictly following the lockdown norms and are not allowing outsiders to come in. They are not even allowing their own folks to return to the village from other places. So strictly the norms are being followed that a sarpanch of a village in Sangareddy did not permit even his mother to come back home. Sai Goud, sarpanch of Goisaipally of Sirgapoor mandal, had to take such a decision when his mother Tulsamma, who had returned from his relative’s house, was made to wait at the entry point. The sarpanch came there and told his mother that the rules would be applicable for her too and that she would not be allowed into the village. He asked her to go back to the relative’s house. A disappointed Tulsamma turned back. This incident reportedly happened on April 13. Many sarpanches are physically present at the entry points to ensure that outsiders are not allowed. In Nalgonda district, 23-year-old Vudutha Akhila Yadav, sarpanch of Madanapuram village, stands at the entry points, sometimes even armed with a stick, to ensure that the lockdown is not violated. No outsiders enter the village, even with the intention of passing through it. “Do not come to our village. We will not come to your village,” reads a banner at Tanikella village in Konijerla mandal in Khammam. Chopped tree branches have been used to barricade the village. In Bhimunigudem village of Bhadrachalam, sarpanch Madakam Pothamma too is at the forefront of guarding the village. The villagers themselves are taking turns to stay on guard at such barricades even throughout the night. Only during medical emergencies, they are opening the entries. Otherwise, no one is being allowed to enter or exit. Even those from Hyderabad, who had returned home after the lockdown had been announced, were not allowed to enter the villlages.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/sarpanch-punishes-mom-for-lockdown-breach/articleshow/75169547.cms||Ch Sushil Rao
April 16, 2020||Visakhapatnam||Residents in red zones find it difficult to procure groceries||VISAKHAPATNAM: People living in the containment zones are facing a tough time procuring essential commodities as the police have turned these areas into fortresses. With little help from the government, delivery executives are not allowed in these localities, and even residents are not allowed to get out of their houses. Locals are finding it almost impossible to arrange for a square meal at home. “The only exemption is 6 am to 9 am when we can go to localities beyond the red zones to buy essential commodities. But quite often we are stopped by the police during that part of the day also,” said Battula Sivaprasad, a marketing executive from Nggos Colony in Akkayyapalem. Although the ward/village volunteers are supplying rations to the residents of these areas, these rations are meant only for white ration card holders. The government had also promised to operate mobile rythu bazaars and had allowed residents to move from 6 am to 11 am in case of extreme emergencies. In fact, the government has claimed to have tied up with e-delivery apps to deliver products at the doorsteps of residents. “However, in reality, nothing has happened. There are hardly any stores selling vegetables or groceries. Instead of 6 am to 11 am, police are allowing us to move between 6 am and 9 am. That too, quite often they are restricting movement during that time also,” said Tirupati Rao, a resident of Alipuram. Officials of the delivery apps said that even they are not being allowed to enter red zone localities. Under such circumstances. they say they are going to the nearest barricade from the customer’s house and asking them to come till the barricade. “However, even after we are reaching, we had to return after cancelling the order as the police is not allowing the customers to walk down from their home,” said Joshua Kunjuo, the owner of an e-delivery app. From Thursday, the police have agreed to issue daily passes for executives of delivery apps. However, no decision has been taken whether they can enter the red zones after showing the passes.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/visakhapatnam/residents-in-red-zones-find-it-difficult-to-procure-groceries/articleshow/75166797.cms||Arpit Basu
April 16, 2020||Hyderabad||Task Force busts two arrack rackets in Hyderabad||HYDERABAD: A bootlegger was apprehended and 100 sachets of arrack were seized from his possession at Shanti Khani in Mancherial district on Wednesday. In another case, Ramagundam police destroyed illicit liquor manufacturing units in a forest near Talla Gurijala. Task Force sleuths of Ramagundam commissionerate apprehended M Suresh, 32, an auto driver from Shanti Khani, and seized 100 sachets of arrack from his possession. On interrogation, Suresh confessed that he purchased it from one B Rajender of Lingapur, Task Force circle inspector Kiran said. Police launched a manhunt to nab Rajender and the accused was handed over to Bellampally II Town police. In the other case, Task Force police of Ramagundam raided arrack manufacturing units in Talla Gurijala village of Mancherial on Tuesday evening and busted an illicit liquor manufacturing racket. According to police, the accused have been manufacturing arrack at secret locations in the forest near Talla Gurijala village. Police seized 3,000 litres of jaggery concoction and other raw material from the spot along with five litres of arrack. The accused are absconding.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/task-force-busts-two-arrack-rackets/articleshow/75169508.cms||---
April 16, 2020||Hyderabad||Hyderabad: Haleem business to take a major hit||HYDERABAD: The one dish that Hyderabadis eagerly look forward to during Ramzan is the mouth-watering haleem. Over the decades, haleem has become synonymous with Ramzan but this time Hyderabadis may miss this once-a-year delicious affair. Those engaged in haleem business say even if the lockdown is lifted after May 3, the government may impose certain restrictions on mass gatherings as a precautionary measure and this would make selling haleem through restaurant counters quite difficult. While many may not get the opportunity to eat haleem with friends at restaurants at least in the first 15 days of this Ramzan, a few leading names in the business are planning on a door-to-door delivery service. Some are hopeful of selling haleem through special counters post lockdown by ensuring social distancing norms. MA Majeed of Pista House said he had tied up with food delivery apps for doorstep delivery of the delicacy right from 3 pm during the lockdown period. “Depending on the situation after the lockdown, we will take measures to ensure that Hyderabadis do not miss haleem this year,” Majeed said. Though haleem or its variant harees had its origin in Arab-Persian region, it was Hyderabad that made the dish popular. Thanks to the addition of special herbs and local ingredients and a little change in the cooking style, Hyderabadi haleem got its unique taste and flavour and thus the Geographical Indication (GI) tag. Hyderabadi haleem is incidentally the first meat-based dish in India to have received the GI certification. The Qutub Shahis brought the dish to the Deccan while the Nizams had perfected it to suit the Hyderabadi palate. The popularity of haleem can be gauged from the fact that almost all restaurants in Hyderabad display the Ramzan countdown boards a month before to herald the unique dish. But, it is not so this year.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/haleem-business-to-take-a-major-hit/articleshow/75169429.cms||Syed Akbar
April 16, 2020||Nashik||170 BAMS doctors recruited by rural health department to fight Covid-19||Nashik: The district health department has appointed 170 BAMS doctors to screen, diagnose and refer Covid-19 patients to bigger health facilities in the district. They will be stationed at 516 health sub-centres. Dawal Salve, district health officer, Nashik Zilla Parishad, said that training will be provided online to all these doctors on Monday, following which they will be sent to the respective health sub-centres. “The recruitment of doctors to fight Covid-19 was done as per the instructions of the state government,” he said. Salve sid that there will now be one doctor for a population of 5,000 people at the village level. “This increased force of doctors would be of great utility to fight the spread of coronavirus. Since there has been a dearth of MBBS doctors, we have recruited BAMS doctors and a few B.Sc Nursing pass-outs,” he said. He said that a team each comprising Anganwadi Sevika, Asha workers and ANM (Auxilliary nurse-midwife) have also been stationed for 1,000 people. The aim of the health department is to maintain a strong vigil to ensure that no individual enters a village from outside. “If at all someone comes, that person is immediately screened for Covid-19 to prevent the virus from spreading at the village level,” said Salve. One such patient was recently spotted in Sinnar by the same team. A person from Malegaon came to Sinnar and he was immediately screened for Covid-19. He was found positive despite having no symptoms of the virus. This helped in stopping the spread of the virus in Sinnar. These teams are working at all the 1,750 villages spread across the district. The BAMS doctors will be on contract for 11 months, though their services would be mainly utilised for the fight against Covid-19.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/170-bams-doctors-recruited-by-rural-health-department-to-fight-covid-19/articleshow/75169690.cms||Santosh Sonawane
April 16, 2020||Hyderabad||Ramzan activities in Hyderabad will be kept low-key in wake of Covid-19||HYDERABAD: With the extension of lockdown to curb the spread of coronavirus, the aura of festivity associated with Ramzan, the Muslim month of fasting, will be missed this time in Hyderabad. Ramzan will begin in India on April 25 subject to sighting of the crescent moon. Muslim scholars across various schools of thought have appealed to the community to stay off congregational prayers in mosques. Ramzan is the period when Muslims spend a major portion of their time in mosques, offering individual and congregational prayers. It is also the time when special congregational night prayers called Taraweeh are offered. Religious leaders have urged the community to forgo Taraweeh prayers in view of the lockdown till May 3. Incidentally, Saudi Arabia has suspended all congregational prayers, including Taraweeh, at the grand mosques in Mecca and Medina, two of the three Islam’s holiest shrines, during Ramzan this year. A meeting of Islamic scholars is scheduled for this weekend in Hyderabad where a fatwa (religious decree) will formally be issued calling upon Muslims to obey lockdown rules during Ramzan and stay away from congregations in mosques. Hyderabad MP and AIMIM president Asaduddin Owaisi is likely to preside over the meeting proposed to be held at Jamia Nizamia, the 144-year-old Islamic deemed university, here. Moulana Syed Ghulam Samdani Ali Quadri, president of Seerat-un-Nabi Academy, told TOI that the question of offering Taraweeh would not arise. “When Muslims have forgone Friday congregational prayers and five obligatory prayers in mosques, they will also stay away from Taraweeh. Unlike Friday and five daily prayers, which are obligatory (Farz), Taraweeh prayers are Sunnah (tradition of the Prophet),” he said. Quadri said a formal fatwa would be issued with a list of do’s and don’ts to be followed during Ramzan to prevent the spread of the novel coronavirus. He said Muslim leaders would meet after May 3 when the lockdown is likely to end and issue fresh guidelines depending on the situation prevailing then. Moulana Khalid Rashid Firangi Mahali, chairperson of Islamic Centre of India, has also issued a ‘no congregational prayers’ advisory. He said while fasting is compulsory for healthy Muslims, Sahar (pre-dawn meal) and Iftar (post-fast meal) and prayers can be had at home. “It is a tradition to break the fast together and in view of social distancing and lockdown, congregations should be avoided,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/ramzan-activities-in-city-will-be-kept-low-key-in-wake-of-covid-19/articleshow/75169400.cms||Syed Akbar
April 16, 2020||Mysuru||Farmer who failed to sell produce ends life||Mandya: A 65-year-old farmer, who failed to transport his produce to the market due to the lockdown, allegedly committed suicide by hanging himself to a tree on his farm in Hosahalli village in Mandya district on Wednesday. Ramegowda could not transport the tomato and beans he had cultivated and claimed to have suffered a loss of Rs 5 lakh. He was also in deep debt. Revenue and horticulture department officers visited the village and promised monetary compensation to the bereaved family. They said that farmers should sell their produce to Hopcoms. A case has been registered in Melukote police station.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mysuru/farmer-who-failed-to-sell-produce-ends-life/articleshow/75165042.cms||---
April 16, 2020||Hyderabad||Techie in Hyderabad helps keep supplies running for those in slums||HYDERABAD: Every week, K Yuvaneshwari, an IT professional and activist steps out to extend help to the slum residents in getting essential food items. She has been working to distribute and refill the essentials for over 300 families and daily wagers during the lockdown. Yuvaneshwari, who along with her volunteers has been distributing essentials to slums in Miyapur, says that initially they distributed grocery and other food items to over 200 families in the first week of April after which several more distribution rounds were taken up. “Some 300 families were identified in the slums. I found out that many people do not have a ration card. Some families only had essentials to last a week or so. We prioritised the families without ration card and daily wage labourer who do not have cash in hand even to buy things and the first phase of distribution was done,” she said. Concerned that families may go hungry, Yuvaneshwari’s non-profit in collaboration with other organisations managed to raise over Rs 87,000 worth of essentials for the families in the slums. The IT professional’s vnon-profit organisation, Chotu Ki Education for children in the Miyapur slum, was formed with an aim to eradicate child labour and begging.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/techie-helps-keep-supplies-running-for-those-in-slums/articleshow/75169560.cms||Aditi Mallick
April 16, 2020||Hyderabad||Post-May 3 blues for Telangana and Andhra Pradesh, fear surge in infections||HYDERABAD: Administrations in both Telangana and Andhra Pradesh are worried about a possible surge in cases after the lockdown ends on May 3. Their main worry is how to tackle the situation when a huge number of people return to Hyderabad from their hometown in AP while those stuck in Telangana move to the neighbouring state. When the lockdown was declared in third week of March, many tried to go to their villages in AP and some people managed to reach their villages a day before it or through other areas.“The situation now is different as both AP and Telangana are not in a position to put them under 14-day quarantine after May 3. This is a major issue bothering both the governments,” an state health department official said.  Since more number of new positive cases are being reported from AP now, officials are worried about the quarantine period which is likely to be completed only after May 3 if the trend continues. For instance, the border district of Kurnool in AP alone has 100 coronavirus cases. Once the lockdown is lifted it would be extremely difficult to stop movement of people from both sides, officials said. “We are facing a major problem in Greater Hyderabad where nearly 300 positive cases have been reported. The government is combating the situation by declaring over 130 areas as containment zones (hotspots). After the lockdown, a majority of the people from AP will head towards Hyderabad as they have jobs here,” a senior official said. He pointed out that AP would also face a similar predicament.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/post-may-3-blues-for-t-and-ap-fear-surge-in-infections/articleshow/75169459.cms||Koride Mahesh
April 16, 2020||Hyderabad||Telangana steps up vigil near Maharastra border||HYDERABAD: With a surge in coronavirus cases in neighbouring Maharashtra, authorities in Telangana have further tightened vigilance along the border districts to ensure there is no movement of people between the two states during the lockdown. “No letters of permission even from local police or other authorities across the border are being entertained. There is also coordination with police in Maharashtra to not allow anyone to enter Telangana from border districts,” Adilabad district SP Vishnu Warrier told TOI on Wednesday. Not only have the borders with Maharashtra been sealed, those who were able to come during late March were made to undergo a medical test and the home quarantine stamp affixed on their hands. What is peculiar about the Maharashtra-Telangana border is that people of the villages on either side of the states are relatives and there is always movement of people. Those who went to work in Maharashtra in March were put under home quarantine after their return. The strict implementation of the rule has also resulted in inconvenience to pilgrims who were returning from Varanasi after having been stuck there due to lockdown. “After verifying and understanding the situation, pilgrims who came in nearly 10 buses were allowed but they were all sent for home quarantine after conducting medical tests,” the SP said. In Adilabad and Kumarambheem Asifabad district for which Vishnu is in-charge, as many as 12 major checkposts have been set up to prevent movement of people into Telangana.There are 15 five mini checkposts. As many as 18,000 houses are under containment zones as Covid-19 cases have been reported from those areas.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/state-steps-up-vigil-near-maha-border/articleshow/75169483.cms||Ch Sushil Rao
April 16, 2020||Vadodara||Gujarat: Man beats brother to death over Rs 1,000 due||VADODARA: A farmer in Chhota Udepur was killed by his brother and nephew for asking the latter to return Rs 1,000 which he had lent him earlier. According to police, the deceased Chhatrasinh Rathwa had been demanding repayment of his money from his brother Dhanka. However, Dhanka did not have money and was enraged by his brother’s incessant demand that led to his murder on Tuesday morning. Chhatrasinh’s wife told the police that Dhanka and his two nephews Raju and Dileep reached their house on Tuesday morning with wooden sticks. The trio pushed Chhatrasinh in a room and started beating him for demanding the money. When Chhatrasinh’s wife intervened, the trio pushed her away and beat Chhatrasinh to death. Cops said that Chhatrasinh had suffered major injuries on his head and had bled profusely due to which he succumbed even before he could be given medical help. His wife then called her brother and mother and went to Rangpur police station to lodge a complaint. “We have registered the offence and are searching for the accused. The deceased had lent money only to his brother but his nephews too joined in attacking him,” said a police official.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/man-beats-brother-to-death-over-rs-1000-due/articleshow/75166689.cms||---
April 16, 2020||Kochi||Unknown contacts in route map of Qatar returnee||PALAKKAD: The route map and list of primary contacts of the Covid-19-positive person, who arrived from Qatar, has many unknown contacts, in addition to a co-passenger in the taxi with his friend from Kozhikode airport and his family members. He developed throat pain on March 22 but he went for treatment only after 20 days on April 11. The route map prepared by the health department shows he reached Kozhikode airport on March 22 by Oman Air (WY 297) in seat number 18F (window seat). He had many unknown contacts before and during the flight. At the airport, he attended the awareness class and spent one hour and fifteen minutes there. From airport he dropped a friend at Ponnani in airport taxi with an unknown contact. He reached home at Ittonam in Chathanoor, Thrithala in Pattambi. The taxi went to Kootanad with the unknown contact after dropping him. After reaching home he was under home quarantine. On April 11, he went to Ottapalam taluk hospital for swab collection. On April 13, he tested positive and was shifted to district hospital and is now in isolation ward. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/unknown-contacts-in-route-map-of-qatar-returnee/articleshow/75166863.cms||---
April 16, 2020||Visakhapatnam||Local youths turn businessmen as demand for masks increase||VISAKHAPATNAM: Taking advantage of the growing demand for masks, a few youths have started selling them near rythu bazaars, grocery stores and meat shops albeit at a higher price. While a piece of cloth mask costs around Rs 10 to Rs 15, these youths are selling it for no less than Rs 70 or Rs 80. “The other day I went to the rythu bazaar that has been shifted to a school. The police stopped me at the gate for not wearing a mask. So, I decided to buy one from a boy standing there. To my surprise, he was selling it for an exhorbitant price and people are forced to buy from such sellers as masks are not available at medical shops,” said K Arun Kumar, a Madhurawada resident. Medical store owners say that the youths are usually from nearby localities who bought masks in bulk before the lockdown and are selling them now at a higher price. “Demand for masks increased from the second week of March and we had procured them in bulk. Ever since the lockdown was imposed, youths from the neighbourhood started buying masks from us in huge quantities and we sold them as there are no rules to stop it. Now, we are running out of stock and they are making money,” said Ganga Prasad Rao, owner of a medical store. Although most people had bought masks, they are now looking for fresh ones as the lockdown has been extended till May 3. Residents are worried that they may have to pay a higher price to buy new masks as most stores don not have stock. “The government should ensure that we receive some supply of masks and there should be a rule against bulk selling to an individual. Otherwise there will be a shortage of supply again,” said D Dhanamjaya, a wholesale medicine and medical product supplier.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/visakhapatnam/local-youths-turn-bizmen-as-demand-for-masks-increase/articleshow/75166821.cms||Arpit Basu
April 16, 2020||Nashik||70 booked for not wearing face masks in Nashik||NASHIK: City police has so far booked as many as 70 people for not wearing face masks while stepping out of their homes. A senior police officer said a notification has been issued that wearing of masks is essential to avoid the spread of coronavirus. "Despite this there are people who are not paying heed to this rule. Since March 22, we have booked 70 such people. They have been booked under section 188 (disobeying the orders duly promulgated by a public servant) of the Indian Penal Code. "We have also taken action against 2,729 people under Section 188 for breaking lockdown. Strict action against such people will continue till the lockdown is not lifted," the official said. According to the officer, the number of cases in the city is increasing steadily steadily and this calls for strict social distancing norms. "Hence, people should not venture out of their houses unless there is an emergency. It has been observed that people not only come out of their homes frequently on the pretext of buying grocery, vegetables, etc but they also for morning and evening walks. All such people who have been identified and booked," the officer said. "We have also limited the timing of grocery stores and vegetable markets so that people do not venture out of their houses. Since the lockdown has been extended till May 3, people are advised to ensure that they always wear a mask while moving out. Strict action will be taken against people for not adhering to police instructions," he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/70-booked-for-not-wearing-face-masks/articleshow/75169705.cms||Santosh Sonawane
April 16, 2020||Delhi||Delhi: Out of balance, even their phones don’t ring now||NEW DELHI: Living hundreds of kilometres away from their families, mobile phones have been the biggest companions of the migrant workers in this time of uncertainties. Mobile phones not only keep them connected with their families and friends, but are also the only source of entertainment for most of them . However, with no spare money to recharge or buy a new phone or a SIM card in case of a glitch, the migrants have slowly started losing contact with their folks back home. The extended lockdown means they will have no way to earn some money and recharge the connections or get their mobile phones repaired. Gopi Mandal, a mason who has been living in Delhi for almost 15 years, said the validity of his mobile connection got over two days ago and he has not spoken to his wife since then. “I have no cash left. Even if I borrow some money from a friend, all recharge shops are now closed,” said Mandal, who owns a feature phone. With all mobile phone shops closed and most migrant workers having no access to mobile wallets or apps, getting connections recharged has become a huge problem for them. Gopal Das who worked as a labourer with an iron rods dealer in West Delhi’s Kirti Nagar said that he broke his phone recently when a policeman hit him while he was going to get food. “The phone is useless now. I can’t make or receive calls. I don’t even remember the number of my wife or father,” Das said. Md Islam, who worked as a bus cleaner at Sarai Kale Khan before the lockdown and now rendered jobless, has a different problem. While his phone is still working, the validity of his father’s phone has expired. “I call up my neighbour in the village to speak to my family now. Sometimes it gets difficult to get connected,” Islam, whose family lives in Bihar’s Katihar district, said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/out-of-balance-even-their-phones-dont-ring-now/articleshow/75169715.cms||Atul Mathur
April 16, 2020||Visakhapatnam||Livelihood of fishermen in Vizianagaram takes a hit||VISAKHAPATNAM: Fishermen from the Bhogapuram and Pusapatirega mandals in Vizianagaram district are facing hardships due to the annual fishing ban compounded by the lockdown to tackle Covid-19. The two mandals account for the 29-km beach stretch in Vizianagaram, which is home to the fisherfolk community of the district. There are roughly 35 hamlets and villages, with over 20,000 people who are dependent on fishing for their livelihood. According to sources, ban on fishing for the past month or so has hurt the fisherfolk a lot. “Many of us are totally dependent on fishing and allied activities for a living. There are more than 400 boats, many of them mechanised. Now, at the peak of the season, we have been told to shut shop,” lamented P Gangayya, a native of Pusapatirega. While the fisherfolk hope for a special compensation for the loss, authorities have made it clear that compensation will be given only for the 61-day ban period from April 14 to June 14. T Sumalatha, deputy director, fisheries, Vizianagaram, said, “So far we have not received any official news regarding special compensation. As of now, they will be compensated only for the regular period, which is from April to June.” Ironically, the ban due to coronavrius threat has worked well for those dependent on inland fisheries. With summer approaching, the harvesting and sale of inland fish is in full swing.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/visakhapatnam/livelihood-of-fishermen-in-vzm-takes-a-hit/articleshow/75166855.cms||Venkatesh Bayya
April 16, 2020||Vijayawada||70,000 in government shelters as per estimates||VIJAYAWADA: Dola Ramu, a tribal migrant labour who works at a brick kiln in Guntur district, was all set to leave for his hamlet in Anantagiri mandal in Visakhapatnam district on Tuesday. The 21-day extension of the lockdown not only dashed Ramu’s hopes, but also that of thousands of migrant workers stranded in various parts of the state. Lack of livelihood, running out of money and struggling to make ends meet in their makeshift accommodations, these workers are now dependent on whatever little help comes their way from the government, NGOs, their owners, and locals. According to estimates, about 25,000 workers are stuck in Guntur district alone. Hundreds of workers are also stranded in West Godavari, Prakasam, Kadapa, East Godavari and Visakhapatnam. A majority of these people are involved in construction work, brick kilns, small-scale industries, agricultural and aqua works and other menial work. Dammi Polayya, a migrant worker stuck in Guntur district, told TOI that he wants to go back to his village. “Things have become so difficult in the last three weeks due to the lockdown and I have no work. We are caught between a rock and a hard place with the lockdown being extended. Today government officials came to our place and provided us with food,” said Polayya. In March, the Union government ordered several new measures for the containment of Covid-19 in the country. It allowed the states to utilise funds dispensed under the state disaster relief fund (SDRF) to provide temporary accommodation, food, clothing and medical care to the homeless, including migrant labourers, stranded due to the lockdown. Following the same, the state identified thousands of migrant workers and shifted them to government shelters. Despite this, several people are still restricted to their rented or makeshift accommodations near their workplaces or agricultural fields. The absence of work and food, compounded with no means of transport to their native places has made the situation stressful for the poor workers. They said they are now worried about the well-being of their families as they are unable to send any money home. It is hence of little surprise that a few of the workers have chosen to walk home. Carrying children on their shoulders, workers walking on national highways have become a common sight in the last three weeks. Even on Wednesday, 22 migrant workers set off to their villages in Jharkhand on foot from their workplace in Gajuwaka. But they were stopped by the police near Kancharapalem and were sent to the shelters. But the growing impatience among the migrant workers – even those placed in government shelters – can be gauged from the fact that some of them staying at these centres in Anantapur and Krishna districts staged a protest recently. They demanded that officials send them to their homes. According to a state government official, the shelters have been providing accommodation to nearly 70,000 migrant workers in the state. “The identification of migrant workers, who are suffering due to the lockdown, has been a continuous process and we have been sending them to shelters and providing the best food and accommodation,” said an official.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/70000-in-govt-shelters-as-per-estimates/articleshow/75166848.cms||Umamaheswara Rao
April 16, 2020||Jaipur||Kadha to boost immunity of corona warriors||Udaipur: The ayurveda department in the city is preparing herbal syrup or ‘kadha’ to boost the immunity of corona warriors out in the field braving Covid-19. Led by the deputy director of the ayurveda department Dr Girjia Shankar Joshi, a team of experts got together on Tuesday to prepare and pack special kadha packets to be distributed among the corona workers of the medical, police, power, water supply and education departments, etc. The kadha-making task began at 7am at the Ayurved Rasayanshala near Gulab Bagh which continued till late evening. “We have set a target of making 12,000 packets of special herbal mix that can be boiled and made into an effective syrup to boost the immune system. 8,500 packets would be distributed in the city area, while the rest are meant for the blocks,” Joshi said. The task was supervised by senior doctor Shobalal Audhichya and yoga expert Ashok Jain wherein staff of the ayurved department and Patanjali fraternity collaborated in making of the kadha and packing them in 100 gram of packet each. The staff of the medical department, sanitation workers, electricity and water supply, para medical teams, teachers, Asha workers who are going door-to-door for surveys would be given the packets on Wednesday so that they have some protection from the disease or infection. Some 3,500 cops are on the streets ensuring that people follow the social distancing and lockdown protocol, they too would be given the kadha packets. Audichya said, the herbal mix has been made from 23 medicinal herbs, including black pepper, gajwaan, tulsi panchang, hansraj, adoosa, mulaithi, neem, giloy, turmeric, etc., which is effective is fighting various kinds of flu, common cold, chickengunia, etc.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/kadha-to-boost-immunity-of-corona-warriors/articleshow/75160886.cms||---
April 16, 2020||Dehradun||15% increase in tipplers’ calls after extension of lockdown||Dehradun/Rudrapur: With the lockdown extending for another 19 days, the helpline numbers of Government Doon Medical College (GDMC) witnessed a 15% surge in calls from anxious tipplers on Wednesday. Many who were expecting the government to end the lockdown on April 14, are now even more harried because of the extension and no intimation from the government on easing the restrictions on sale of liquor and alcoholic beverages anytime soon. A day after PM Narendra Modi announced the extension of lockdown, the central government on Wednesday issued advisory to states to ban the sale of alcohol and tobacco in the next phase of the lockdown -- from April 15 to May 03. Dr Suhil Ojha of GDMC’s helpline told TOI that they receive over 800 calls every day but there was no case of tipplers calling for any kind of help in the initial two weeks of the lockdown. “We started getting calls from anxious people since the past 5-6 days. But the number was still very less. However, just after news of lockdown extension broke, the number of such callers has increased by 15%,” Dr Ojha said, adding, “We are asking them to do some exercises and have also referred some to the psychiatric ward at Coronation Hospital. The callers are showing withdrawal symptoms with body shaking and other complaints and we are providing them necessary help.” Not just in Dehradun, the situation is similar in other cities of the hill state as well. Doctors said that the people approaching them are complaining of anxiety, restlessness, insomnia and peevishness. Doctors opined that these are withdrawal symptoms which occur when alcoholics or addicts do not get the intoxicants they are addicted to. Dr SP Singh, neurologist at Narayan Hospital, Rudrapur, said that people coming to them are asking for remedies. "Most of them are suffering from insomnia and abnormal behaviour for which we are prescribing them short term courses of medication and also counselling them. Some of them shiver and also loose control over their bodies, they have also gone delusional which comes under severe withdrawal symptoms. We are administering them treatment and also asking them to do yoga and meditation", Dr Singh added. Dr Gautam Kumar, another neurologist, said that it was expected. "An alcoholic person's body takes time to adjust under such conditions. More than a dozen such patients are being registered at our OPD everyday. Some of them seek counselling over phone as well. The stage can be cured with medicines but it is also right time to provide them such medicines which may improve their immunity. If they are not provided treatment, they may get worse and it can result into these people turning violent or self-harming", he added. Dr Sonia Adlakha, a senior physician, said that the lockdown also gives an opportunity to detoxify. "I believe that the going may get tough for severe addicts of alcohol, drugs and psychotropic substances and also for those presently under rehab. But the withdrawal can be managed successfully using medications,” she added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/15-increase-in-tipplers-calls-after-extension-of-lockdown/articleshow/75168534.cms||Ishita Mishra
April 16, 2020||Mangaluru||GP member ensures water to 50 households in summer||Mangaluru: For Rohinath Shetty, member of Boliyar gram panchayat in Mangaluru taluk, the lockdown prompted to innovate to ensure drinking water supply to around 50 houses in his ward. It is because of his innovation that these households are managing the show without venturing out to quench their thirst during summer. With borewell being the sole source of potable water in the GP limits, Rohinath faced a challenge when one of the five borewells there failed. It was this borewell that supplied water to 50-odd households in his ward. Faced with lack of labour, plumbers and material, Rohinath borrowed an earth-moving equipment that GP president Satish Acharya owned, and swung in to action. Working overnight, he laid trenches for water pipeline. Rohinath earlier had sourced plumbing material, including pipes, from a nearby hardware shop on credit. Lending him a helping hand in energising the borewell was the management committee of Ammembal Juma Masjid that loaned him rolls of wire that it had purchased for a religious function. A local Mescom junior engineer too pared off paperwork to speed up the work. Located close to Bearys Institute of Technology, the area often goes through the throes of water shortage, Rohinath told TOI. “The new borewell to supply water to the households was ready, when the lockdown was enforced. We had to think out of the box in handling this situation — right from getting the (earth-moving equipment) machine and the materials needed for laying the pipeline to sourcing the wiring material. The masjid committee helped us in this hour of need,” he said, adding: “Mescom authorities too were proactive in giving us temporary connection given the pressing circumstances.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mangaluru/gp-member-ensures-water-to-50-households-in-summer/articleshow/75166882.cms||Jaideep Shenoy
April 16, 2020||Mangaluru||Expats in Kuwait help bring body to M’luru||Mangaluru: Despite strict imposition of curfew in Kuwait due to the Covid-19 pandemic, some expatriates risked their lives, careers and health, to airlift a man’s mortal remains to Mangaluru, who died due to leukaemia and cardiac arrest. According to Indian Embassy officials in Kuwait, Prakayath Kumar Bejai, 32, a resident of Bejai Kapikad in Mangaluru, passed away in Kuwait. He was working for National Aviation Services as a passenger service agent. Prakayath was admitted to Farwaniya Hospital in Kuwait, and was diagnosed with leukaemia at the last stage of the disease, and died due to cardiac arrest. Prakayath, who isaclose relative of former Union minister B Janaradhana Poojary, and had gone to Kuwait two years ago. Harish Poojary, Prakayath’s uncle, expressed his gratitude to the people of Kuwait, and also Dakshina Kannada MP Nalin Kumar Kateel, whose timely help made it possible to bring Prakyath’s mortal remains to India. “It was Herculean task, as all the passenger flights have been cancelled, and Kuwait has imposed a curfew. Despite that, some people came forward to help bring Prakayath’s body home, by braving all odds. An expatriate, whose area was under curfew, risked his life and career, and ensured that all the necessary documents were in order to bring Prakayath’s body home,” said Harish, adding that the body was supposed to reach here on Friday, but got delayed at the last minute, due to one signature. The body is being brought in a cargo flight that took off from Kuwait on Tuesday. The flight will land in Bengaluru, after making a stop in Qatar. “The body is expected reach Kempegowda International Airport, late on Wednesday evening, and will be brought to Mangaluru by road in the early morning, after which final rites will be performed, which only close relatives are allowed to attend, as per guidelines,” said Harish.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mangaluru/expats-in-kuwait-help-bring-body-to-mluru/articleshow/75165618.cms||Kevin Mendonsa
April 16, 2020||Visakhapatnam||ARCs in Visakhapatnam, Tirupati may be turned into quarantine facilities||VISAKHAPATNAM: The forest department is planning to convert the Animal Rescue Center at the Visakhapatnam Zoological Park into a quarantine facility. The ARC has 62 unused cubicles and can cater, if the need arises, to both Visakhapatnam and Rajahmundry circles. There are five ARCs in the country of which Andhra Pradesh has two — one in Visakhapatnam and the other in Tirupati. Together they have the capacity to house at least 120 animals and come equipped with their own hospital facilities. Speaking to TOI, chief conservator of Visakhapatnam circle, Rahul Pandey, said, “We use the ARC as a quarantine centre on a regular basis, whenever we bring in or rescue animals. For examples, when the Asiatic lions were brought from Junagadh, they were quarantined and examined here before being released into their enclosures. Same is the case with a leopard rescued near Rajahmundry.” The chief conservator added that as of now, no animal has been quarantined owing to coronavirus and the zoo is being sanitised daily. He said, “We follow a regimental method of running the zoo. All the measures being taken are as per protocol and these are inclusive of other regular sanitisation methods, which are usually followed.” Pandey said, “The ARC in Visakhapatnam has 69 cubicles, out of which only six are being used, while the remaining 62 are empty.” There is a tigress in quarantine there but not due to Covid-19. Sources in the forest department said that they are prepared for any eventuality and are confident that the ARCs in both Visakhapatnam and Tirupati would be more than sufficient.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/visakhapatnam/arcs-in-vizag-tirupati-may-be-turned-into-quarantine-facilities/articleshow/75166887.cms||Venkatesh Bayya
April 16, 2020||Vijayawada||Kanigiri legislator flouts lockdown norms||TIRUPATI: YSRC Kanigiri MLA Burra Madhusudhan Yadav on Wednesday tried to enter Andhra Pradesh from Karnataka with 36 other people by defying the lockdown. He was obstructed by the Chittoor district police near Cheekalabailu checkpost, close to the Andhra Pradesh-Karnataka border. Once the police on duty at the checkpost barred the MLA’s five vehicles to pass an altercation broke out. The Kanigiri legislator then met Madanapalle DSP Ravi Manoharachari and demanded that his convoy be allowed to pass. But the DSP refused to budge and told the MLA that the lockdown guidelines cannot be broken or altered for anyone. However, following instructions from higher-ups, the MLA alone was allowed to pass through the checkpost while his family members and followers were sent back to Bengaluru. Speaking to TOI, Madanapalle DSP Ravi Manoharachari said the Kanigiri legislator had approached him for permission to let five of his vehicles with 36 members to pass through the Cheekalabailu checkpost. ‘‘We told the MLA that the DGP orders clearly states not to allow any deviations from the lockdown no matter what the contingency. After instructions came from the higher-ups, only the MLA was allowed to pass through the checkpost, while his other family members and followers had to return back to Bengaluru”, the DSP said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/kanigiri-legislator-flouts-lockdown-norms/articleshow/75166892.cms||Sandeep Raghavan
April 16, 2020||Delhi||Delhi: Government pulls out all stops to prevent an exodus||NEW DELHI: The unorganised sector in the capital provides livelihood to over 40 lakh people, a large chunk of them being migrant workers from Bihar, Uttar Pradesh and other states. While many of them have gone back to their villages — some even on foot — after the Covid-19 lockdown was announced in March-end, the rest are stranded in the city without any work. With the lockdown now extended till May 3, the authorities are apprehending that many of them may try to leave Delhi. While the government is strengthening its relief mechanism, the district authorities and police have been asked to take steps to avoid another exodus of migrant workers who are not only without job but are also required at home during the harvest season. Any such attempt will negate the basic principle of social distancing, a source said. Most of the migrants work as daily-wage labourers at construction sites and for various non-essential services, and the lockdown has forced them to depend on the ration and food being provided by Delhi government, traders’ bodies and NGOs. Many of them have taken shelter in government facilities and hardly anybody is left with any cash after 22 days of the lockdown. Thousands of migrants work in Kashmere Gate and Mori Gate areas in motor parts and tractor and agricultural equipment businesses, respectively. “Hundreds are still stranded in their rented houses. Our members are offering them food and ration,” said Niranjan Poddar, president of Automotive and General Traders Welfare Association of Mori Gate. In many other markets, they work as helpers in shops, eateries and offices and stay in congested rented rooms. Local traders’ bodies and social organisations have become their saviours in many such places. Since the announcement of the lockdown, Delhi government has taken several relief measures for the needy such as distribution of cooked meals twice a day. It now provides food to over eight lakh people daily. Ration items — 4kg wheat and 1kg rice each — are being distributed from over 400 schools among those who have applied for e-ration cards during the crisis. The existing 71 lakh beneficiaries — many being migrant workers and their family members — are already getting 7.5kg free ration from over 2,000 fair price shops. The government has also provided a one-time financial assistance of Rs 5,000 to around 35,000 construction workers and para-transit drivers are going to receive the same.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/govt-pulls-out-all-stops-to-prevent-an-exodus/articleshow/75169723.cms||AlokKNMishra
April 16, 2020||Dehradun||State govt agrees that U’khand needs 3 more Covid-19 test labs, Assistant Solicitor General to consult Centre: HC||Nainital: The officials of the state government and Assistant Solicitor General of India have reached a consensus that Uttarakhand needs at least three more government facilities for coronavirus test in addition to the present three facilities at Sushila Tiwari Hospital in Haldwani, AIIMS Rishikesh, and Government Doon Medical College and Hospital in Dehradun. The development comes as Uttarakhand High Court was hearing a public interest litigation (PIL) through video conferencing. Earlier this month, advocate Dushyant Mainali had written a detailed letter to the Chief Justice of Uttarakhand High Court in which he highlighted lack of protective gear with the doctors and other frontline workers. The HC took cognisance of the letter and decided to treat it as a PIL which was heard on Wednesday by the bench of Justice Sudhanshu Dhulia and Justice Ravindra Mainthani. In its order, the court said that Rakesh Thapliyal, Assistant Solicitor General of India, has told the court that he will consult the central government on the issue. “After hearing all the concerned authorities, there is a common consensus (including that of Assistant Solicitor General of India) , that it is desirable that at least three more testing laboratories may be made functional i.e. one each at Haridwar, Udham Singh Nagar and Nainital/Ramnagar… The Assistant Solicitor General of India has assured this Court that he will consult the relevant ministry of Government of India and apprise the court on the next date of listing,” the order read. The HC has also asked the state and central governments to file a detailed response apprising the court of what measures are being taken to comply with the guidelines of World Health Organisation (WHO) and the Union ministry of health while also detailing what other measures can be taken in “the main and the most frequently visited government hospitals of the state, so that the doctors who are examining the patients in their OPD are properly protected in these times.” The court said that the response must be filed by Saturday, when the case will be heard next.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/state-govt-agrees-that-ukhand-needs-3-more-covid-19-test-labs-assistant-solicitor-general-to-consult-centre-hc/articleshow/75168560.cms||Prashant Jha
April 16, 2020||Ahmedabad||Guj CM under a week’s home quarantine; Cases tally is 766||Ahmedabad: Gujarat chief minister Vijay Rupani was put under a week of home quarantine on Wednesday, a day which saw a record high 127 people testing positive for coronavirus in the state. Gujarat recorded five more deaths with death toll climbing to 33 even as the total coronvirus cases tally shot to 766. The CM’s quarantine was mandated after he underwent a detailed medical check-up by top infectious diseases doctors following his much-debated exposure to Congress MLA from Jamalpur-Khadia Imran Khedawala who tested positive merely hours after his meeting with the CM, DyCM Nitin Patel and MoS home Pradipsinh Jadeja. Khedawala was joined by another senior Congress corporator, Badruddin Shaikh, and his wife who have tested positive on Wednesday. Two nurses tasked with taking samples of Covid suspect tested positive in Bharuch Civil Hospital. Of the 127 cases, 88 were reported from Ahmedabad. The last time the state saw over 100 test positive in a day was on April 10 when 116 people were detected with the virus. “During the CM's meeting with Congress MLAs to discuss imposition of curfew in walled city and Danilimda that are Covid-19 hotspots with maximum cases, Khedawala was sitting at least 15-20 feet away from the chief minister,” said Dr Jayanti Ravi, principal secretary – health and family welfare, government of Gujarat. “Khedawala suffered from low-grade fever and cold due to which his sample was collected on Monday. Till the reports arrive, he should have avoided meeting anyone, but by not doing so, he has made a mistake,” Ravi further added. The chief minister conducted the cabinet meeting through video conferencing from home itself. The top leadership discussed the detection of a high number of 88 cases from Ahmedabad alone. “Most cases in Ahmedabad have been reported from areas such as Dudheshwar, Panch Kuwa, Kalupur, Behrampura, Odhav, Shah-e-Alam, Naroda, Raikhad, Dariyapur and Danilimda. While one case was reported was that of a paramedic affiliated with 108 Emergency services who hails from Kheda, he was on duty in Kathwada of Ahmedabad,” confirmed Ravi. Five people including a 14-year-old girl from Vadodara and a 45-year-old woman from Surat succumbed to the infection. According to the state health department, both patients had co-morbidities. Three more deaths from Ahmedabad were also reported, one of a 45-year-old woman at Civil Hospital along with a 65-year-old woman at UN Mehta Hospital and a 55-year-old woman at SVP Hospital. This takes the total Covid-related deaths in the state to 33.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/guj-cm-under-a-weeks-home-quarantine-cases-tally-is-766/articleshow/75169725.cms||---
April 16, 2020||Nagpur||NMC record of deaths rules out unidentified Covid-19 fatalities||Nagpur: The Nagpur Municipal Corporation’s (NMC) analysis of the number of deaths registered in March and in the first 11 days of April, in comparison with the corresponding period last year, ruled out possibility of unidentified Covid-19 deaths in the city. In fact, the number of deaths has reduced this year. Following media reports of spurt in deaths from a particular community in a city of a neighbouring state, the civic body had ordered the analysis. NMC data says 1,825 persons died in March last year, of which 1,638 were cremated and 187 buried in cemeteries. In March this year, 1,415 deaths were registered of which 1,286 were at crematoriums and 129 at cemeteries. Similarly, NMC registered 1,583 deaths in April last year, 1,402 at crematoriums and 181 at cemeteries. In 11 days of April this year, there were 459 registered deaths of which 407 were at crematoriums and 52 at cemeteries. The city started to witness positive cases of Covid-19 from March 11. As of now, total positive cases are 56 in the district, of which 55 are within NMC limits. The district has registered one death, from Satranjipura. The reports of the deceased had come positive a day after his death. The number of positives reach 56 due to two cases. Satranjipura case also recorded 27 positives while 11 persons were afflicted in the Khamla case. The city stands at third place after Mumbai and Pune in the state as far as area and population are concerned. As on Tuesday, Mumbai had registered 1,756 positive cases including 112 deaths, while Pune’s positive cases are 310 including 34 deaths. A few more cities are ahead of Nagpur in positive and death cases. Municipal commissioner Tukaram Mundhe told TOI, “We came up with a lot of ideas during the think tank session in Covid-19 War Room. Analysis of deaths was one of the ideas. We have done day-to-day and area-wise analysis. There are no abnormal deaths in the city. Also, there are no abnormal deaths in any particular area,” he said. Though the civic body receives information of all deaths for death certificates, the teams of NMC went to 16 crematoriums and 10 cemeteries to compile the data. Mundhe said, “The major reasons behind fewer Covid-19 positive and death cases in the city are the various steps taken by us. We have immediately done containment drives in areas where positive case came to fore. We traced all family members, close contacts, tested and quarantined them. Also, we launched door-to-door survey of high-risk persons across the city. There are many more such initiatives which helped contain Covid-19,” he said. Mundhe added, “We have started to reach out to all tuberculosis (TB) patients over the last two days. Satranjipura death was a TB patient. Such patients are high-risk for Covid-19. We have a number of TB patients in the city. Our teams have started to visit them, inquire about their health condition, guide them to take medicines regularly, and encourage them to stay at home.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/nmc-record-of-deaths-rules-out-unidentified-covid-19-fatalities/articleshow/75169747.cms||Anjaya Anparthi
April 16, 2020||Delhi||Delhi: Poor quality, meagre portions irk many||NEW DELHI: At a government school in Trilokpuri, the queues for morning meals being distributed by Delhi government had no children. The adults lined up disclosed that the civic defence volunteers at the school had told them not to bring children. That is not their only grouse. Anil Kumar, a driver from Trilokpuri Block 11, grumbled, “I got two spoons of rice yesterday. Should I eat it or give it to my wife and kid? When we ask for more, they tell us to manage with this. The dal is watery and we have been given only rice, not chapatis for days. We will die of hunger rather than the coronavirus disease.” The lockdown has left migrant labour, daily-wage earners and slum dwellers at their wits’ ends with no income or the option to return to their villages. The state government has made arrangements for food and dry rations, but most people that TOI met at homeless shelters and distribution centres in schools expressed dissatisfaction at the quantity and quality of what they were getting. Many also complained about the erratic timings of the food distribution. At the shelters in Sarai Kale Khan, the people waited in anticipation of food from noon until it finally arrived around 1.30pm. A lad appeared with a single big dish of pulao for the 107 people at the two shelters. When asked why there was just one vessel for so many people, the youngster shot back, “Yesterday I brought two but had to take a lot of food back, so today I just got one. I am only doing my job and bring whatever I am given.” When TOI was at the shelters, each time someone stopped outside, the people thought the meals had arrived. The children were out on the road hoping someone would give them food; some even approached a policeman on duty under the flyover. The cop gave them four boxes. Other asked too, but the cop had nothing left for them. Rajkumar Basod, a labourer from MP staying there with his wife and five children, said, “All the families have made chulhas here and we cook with whatever we have. If the government can’t give us decent food, then it should provide us raw rations and we will cook ourselves. Today, the food arrived early, but there are days when we have to wait till 3pm.” TOI also visited three government schools in east Delhi, two in Trilokpuri and one in Mayur Vihar Phase-I Extension where the afternoon meals were being distributed. The scenario at the schools was similar in all three locations. In Mayur Vihar, photography inside the school was prohibited. People stood in six parallel lines, and they were asked to enter the building by civic defence volunteers once the others inside exited. Imrana stepped out after collecting the dal and rice with no expression on her face. Asked why she appeared glum, she replied, “My husband divorced me and I have three children aged 14, 9 and 3 years. We get so little here. I can bear the hunger, but what about my kids? Does the government think people can stay hungry after walk 2km just to get some food? We don’t have money and the shopkeepers refuse to give us anything on credit.” Ahead of her was Chilla village resident Shimla, who warned Imrana not to complain with the civil defence volunteer within earshot. Shimla herself said more judiciously, “We were given kadhi the other day with boondi in it or it’s soya nuggets and rice. In 15 days, I haven’t seen a chappati. Even if we bring bigger dishes, we get the same meagre quantity. And while we don’t have money to feed ourselves, the landlord keeps demanding his rent. Either you should send us home or give us food according to the number of members in our families.” Also in the queue was Shabadra Devi, a Bihar native. “My husband is diabetic and my only child is disabled,” she groaned. “Is there a way we can be happier? We can cook for ourselves but only if we have rations.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/poor-quality-meagre-portions-irk-many/articleshow/75169733.cms||Sakshi Chand
April 16, 2020||Dehradun||U’khand forms committee to analyse effects of Covid-19, suggest measures to improve economy||Dehradun: With the lockdown being extended till May 3, the state government has started its preparation to handle the economic as well as the social fallout. A state cabinet meeting has been called on Thursday to review the situation and finalise locations and sectors where relaxation can be provided from April 20. The government has formed a high-powered committee to analyse the present scenario and recommend the necessary remedies to bring the economy back on track. Besides, it has hinted at the possibilities of opening of construction sites in the state and further relaxations in the nine hill districts, where coronavirus has made virtually no impact. In addition, a three month advance pension has been provided to beneficiaries of the old age, widow, farmers and physically challenged pension scheme. There are around 7 lakh beneficiaries of the pension being provided by the social welfare department for widow, old age persons, farmers and physically challenged people. “From April, we are transferring three months of advance pension in their account, so that they do not face problems. The process has been started and soon the amount would reach all the beneficaries,” said CM Rawat.  Meanwhile, retired IAS officer Indu Kumar Pandey will head the high-powered committee which will also have principal secretary industry Manisha Panwar, secretary finance Sowjanya, additional secretary finance Bhupesh Tiwari and additional secretary planning Yogendra Yadav. After gauging the situation, the committee will suggest measures to strength the financial institutions in the state. It will also identify the high priority areas, which can provide maximum and earliest solution to the issues faced by the common man. For the present crisis, Uttarakhand has been divided into two categories of Green and Red. Green category has districts which do not have coronavirus-positive cases and others have been included under Red category. While nine districts have virtually no impact of coronavirus, the remaining four – Dehradun, Haridwar, Udham Singh Nagar and Nainital – have been included in the Red category list.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/ukhand-forms-committee-to-analyse-effects-of-covid-19-suggest-measures-to-improve-economy/articleshow/75168585.cms||Kautilya Singh
April 16, 2020||Visakhapatnam||Vizag-based NGO preparing database for doctors on call||VISAKHAPATNAM: With out-patient departments and non-emergency services closed, volunteers from Mother Earth Environment Consciousness Society (Meecons) are creating a database of area-wise medical practitioners in Visakhapatnam and Vizianagaram, who can serve as visiting doctors or tele/video consulting doctor. The area or service will be within three kilometres from their localities. “This database of doctors is meant to provide a platform for people to contact physicians during the lockdown period. A patient can directly pay the fees in case of home visit or through online for teleconsultation. Some doctors may also offer free treatment. A few junior or MBBS doctors have expressed their willingness to home visits,” said Vijay Potnuru, a member of Meecons. “We are getting queries from colony residents and acquaintances about doctors vailable for home visits for common ailments like stomach aches, pregnancy-related issues, joint pains, BP, diabetes and so on,” said founder-president of Meecons S Ravi Kanth Reddy. Doctors who are willing to register can log in to www.meecons.org and fill the database form with details such as qualification and specialty, area of residence, and preferred time of consultation.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/visakhapatnam/city-based-ngo-preparing-database-for-doctors-on-call/articleshow/75166909.cms||Sulogna Mehta
April 16, 2020||Amaravati||Andhra Pradesh to double screening capacity in next five days||AMARAVATI: The state government is gearing up to screen people for Covid-19 in a big way. The medical and health department has told chief minister YS Jaganmohan Reddy that the daily screening capacity will be increased from 2,100 to 4,000 in the next five days.The officials told the chief minister that they have started testing all the suspected cases identified during the family survey held across the state. The chief minister took stock of the situation with ministers and senior officials at the camp office on Wednesday. He directed the officials to immediately test all the 32,000 people identified during the family survey and said that random tests should be conducted in the second phase by taking mandal as unit. “Carry out random tests after covering all those identified in the family survey. Random tests will determine the pace and intensity of the spread of the virus,” said the chief minister. He asked the officials to pay at least Rs 2,000 to the poor while they leave quarantine facilities so that they do not return home empty handed from quarantine homes. He said the officials should create awareness among the people who get discharged about the safety measures which ought to be followed after reaching home. But officials must follow the World Health Organisation (WHO) and the Centre’s guidelines to discharge people from quarantine facilities even after they tested negative for Covid-19, he said, adding that the discharged people should be tested at least once in a week to rule out the possibility of contracting the virus. The chief minister reiterated that there should not be any compromise on food and facilities at the quarantine shelters and asked the officials to spend at least Rs 500 per person for food and accommodation, Rs 50 for sanitation and Rs 50 for incidental costs. Officials explained that they are spending Rs 600 per person to shift them to the quarantine centre and drop them back at home. They said they were providing double or single bed facilities to all those brought to the quarantine centres.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/amaravati/ap-to-double-screening-capacity-in-next-five-days/articleshow/75166912.cms||Samdani MN
April 16, 2020||Coimbatore||Mobile testing kiosk launched in Ooty||Udhagamandalam: Nilgiris collector J Innocent Divya on Wednesday opened a walk-in sample kiosk (Wisk) in Ooty to screen and collect samples from people with possible Covid-19.“It is a mobile kiosk for blood testing and to facilitate people in the containment areas,” said Divya. “In the three containment areas in the district, the 14-day protocol of containment operation got over yesterday. The second phase of the operation starts today.”The kiosk will enable the vulnerable people including those above 60 years and with medical conditions in the containment areas to conduct blood test. “As per the government guidelines, vulnerable people of all categories are to be scanned and tested. The mobile kiosk will help in reaching out to the people in containment areas,” said Divya.Sponsored by a group of philanthropists including the Citizen’s Forum Ootacamund and Nilgiri Mavatta Vokkaligara Sangha, the kiosk has two cabins with separate entrances, one for the microbiologist and the other for the testee. After the testee exits, the cabin is disinfected. The kiosk is designed to check cross-infection.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/mobile-testing-kiosk-launched-in-ooty/articleshow/75169731.cms||---
April 16, 2020||Vijayawada||Anakapalle jaggery market opens, likely to operate twice a week||VIJAYAWADA: Anakapalle jaggery market, the second largest in the country, resumed business on Wednesday. The rates for low-quality jaggery are in the range of Rs 270-Rs 290 per 10 kg and better varieties are priced at Rs 360-Rs 385 per 10 kg, said B Ravi Kumar, secretary of Anakapalle jaggery market yard. On Wednesday, around 50,000 jaggery lumps arrived in the market, he said. Traders said yard officials should make social distancing and wearing of face masks manadtory in the market premises during the auction and packing of the jaggery lumps to prevent the possible spread of Covid-19. Sources said that the yard authorities are chalking out plans to open the market twice a week till May 3 to buy jaggery and send Anakapalle jaggery to other states. It is expected that 15,000 to 20,000 kg jaggery is likely to come to the yard in a week and the traders expects the trend to continue till the first week of May. So far during the current season (from September 2019 to March 2020), 13.33 lakh lumps of jaggery were sold at the Anakapalle market and the number may touch to 16 lakh lumps by the end of the season. KV Sharath Kumar, a third-generation jaggery trader in Anakapalle, said they are planning to send jaggery to Odisha, Chhattisgarh and Jharkhand by road as the officials have assured that they will give permission for the transportation of jaggery in trucks. “It is not an easy task to maintain social distancing at the jaggery market. We are appealing to the authorities to take more precautions in the coming days,” he said. In recent times, Anakapalle market has been facing stiff competition from Uttar Pradesh and Maharashtra. Jaggery producers from other states are resorting to price cuts to make a dent in the Anakapalle market, said sources.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/anakapalle-jaggery-market-opens-likely-to-operate-twice-a-week/articleshow/75166938.cms||---
April 16, 2020||Coimbatore||Cop injured in crude bomb blast||Coimbatore: A police constable was injured after a crude bomb exploded during an illicit liquor raid at Athikuttai in Kuppanur village on Tuesday.A police team led by inspector Baskaran attached to the prohibition enforcement wing (PEW) had raided the farmhouse of A Nachimuthu after receiving information about arrack sale on Tuesday evening.“The team found two litres of arrack in the house. When they were inspecting the cattle shed, one of the crude bombs stored there fell to the ground and exploded. Grade I police constable from Annur station Senthil Kumar sustained minor injuries in the explosion,” a police officer said.The 36-year-old cop was taken to a hospital where he was treated as outpatient. The bombs were made to kill wild boars, the officer added.Police registered a case against Nachimuthu and arrested him. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/cop-injured-in-crude-bomb-blast/articleshow/75169738.cms||---
April 16, 2020||Thiruvananthapuram||Dengue fever rears its head again in the Thiruvananthapuram||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM: Though the district has managed to keep Covid-19 cases under check, dengue cases are posing fresh challenge for health wing and local bodies.  The district reported the second dengue death in the year on April 12. A 78-year-old woman hailing from Manikkal is the deceased. She had earlier been taken to Kanyakulangara PHC and from there she was taken to a private hospital. Later she was admitted to Covid ICU at Medical College where her samples were tested for Covid-19 and dengue. Samples turned negative for Covid-19, however, she was tested positive for dengue. Later she returned home but again showed signs of wheezing and she died on the way to Medical College Hospital. The date of death was recorded as April 12. In January, a person from Tamilnadu had died at Kattakada of dengue. Between March and April, 44 cases of dengue have been reported in the district of which majority of cases have been reported within corporation limits. Vellanad, Vembayam, Vattapara, Manikkal, Perumkadavila and Karakulam are the rural areas from where dengue cases have been reported between March and April. Dengue cases have been reported from around 29 corporation wards during the same period, including city wards like Kowdiar, Vazhuthacaud, Palayam, Karamana, Valiyasala, Muttathara, Nalachira, Vanchiyur, Fort, Pattoor, Medical College, Peroorkada, Ambalamukku and Kunnukuzhi. Beemapally ward alone reported three cases on March 3 and repeated cases have emerged from Kowdiar and Peroorkada. Apart from Beemapally, cases have been reported from other coastal wards like Vizhinjam and Valiyathura. The officials with integrated disease surveillance programme have visited Manikkal and initiated disease control protocol in the area. The health wing of the city corporation, which is already overburdened with tasks related to Covid-19 management, has been wary of the rise in number of dengue cases within corporation wards. Efforts are underway to deploy the workforce currently engaged in multiple tasks associated with Covid-19 management to combat the spread of dengue. The local self-government department has already warned local bodies to take action against spread of mosquito-borne diseases. Six chikungunya cases were also reported from Medical College, Manacaud, Poonthura, Chettivilakom, Vallakadavu and Attukal areas in March. Since 2017, the number of dengue cases has been effectively controlled in the district. In 2017, the district reported 8,955 cases and 13 deaths which came down to 311 cases and two deaths in 2018. However, the number rose slightly in 2019 with 1,100 cases and four deaths. In 2017, when the number of dengue cases rose alarmingly in the city, the corporation had constituted a 24-hour special dengue cell at Kazhakkoottam zonal office. The cell monitored breeding spots of mosquitoes by arranging communication with residents. Services like anti-mosquito spraying, fogging, power spraying, growing guppy fishes in shallow wells and stagnant water, source-level eradication, services of Asha workers, anganwadi workers and students of nursing colleges were also ensured through the dengue cell.  A leptospirosis death has also been reported from Varkala, health officials said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/thiruvananthapuram/dengue-fever-rears-its-head-again-in-the-district/articleshow/75166945.cms||Aswin J Kumar
April 16, 2020||Dehradun||Over 1,400 linked to Tablighi Jamaat quarantined in U’khand||Dehradun: As many as 1,436 people from Uttarakhand, who are linked to Tablighi Jamaat, have been quarantined since the last week of March, according to police. Of these, 895 have been institutional quarantined while rest 540 are in home quarantine, said Ashok Kumar, director general (DG) law and order, adding, “About 80% of the total jamaatis have been tested while tests of nearly 20% are awaited.” Incidentally, the state governments across the country, including Uttarakhand, have been on tenterhooks since the Tablighi Jamaat congregation at Nizamuddin Markaz turned out to be the hotbed of COVID-19 outbreak in the country. In Uttarakhand, police have booked eight members of Tablighi Jamaat under section 307 (attempt to murder) of Indian Penal Code (IPC) for not showing up before police and hiding their participation in jamaat.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/over-1400-linked-to-tablighi-jamaat-quarantined-in-ukhand/articleshow/75168613.cms||Gaurav Talwar
April 16, 2020||Delhi||Delhi: Migrants trapped on riverbank, hungry and without hope||NEW DELHI: Sixty-year-old Ramesh Kumar sat quietly under a tree and kept staring at the river ahead. His last proper meal was on Saturday. “He is too hungry to even speak,” said Gokul Mandal, who sat near him. These two are among hundreds taking shelter under a bridge over the Yamuna, near Qudsia Ghat, holding on to their scant belongings. Most of them have been hungry for days, and some have fallen sick with fever, cough and cold. As temperatures rise, things can only get worse. They can’t go home and what got them some money to survive – stray jobs -- have disappeared in the lockdown. “We are scared. What comes first? Maintaining a distance from each other or food and shelter. Who will test us for the disease? This scorching sun is making matters worse,” said Naveen Singh, a migrant from Uttar Pradesh. They have managed to stave off starvation thanks to a Sikh gentleman who comes early in the morning with food, they say. Otherwise, since Sunday, not much food or aid has come their way, said Sonu, who used to work in an Old Delhi eatery. “Some miscreants created a ruckus because food was served a bit late. Now we are all suffering. Due to the lockdown, we can’t even go anywhere else for food. The mandirs, gurudwaras and dargahs are all closed. What do we eat and where?” asked the 23-year-old. On April 12, following an altercation over food at a Yamuna Pushta shelter, where many of these people were staying, there was a scuffle and some jumped into the river in the melee. Discovery of a body in the river later led to rumours which caused unrest. First, there was some stone-pelting and then three night shelters were set on fire. Since then food and aid has dried up considerably at this site. “The young people can run and get whatever little food is coming. What will we do?” said a 70-year-old, who did not wish to be named. What’s worse, even drinking water is not easily available. One has to walk for nearly 25 minutes to a tap at Majnu ka Tila. “No one cares about us. Whether we live or die. We are surviving somehow,” said Manoj, 45. Many were seen taking a dip in the river, a little less polluted than usual. Some sat in groups under any shade available. Most remained camped on a dry patch of land between the pillars of the bridge. Some were napping and others were chatting, with a few cows and mongrels for company. “They, too, like the shade here. Besides, there is an occasional cool breeze blowing which gives us some relief,” said Shamsher, 27. However, not all is as grim on the Yamuna banks. Near the burnt shelters at Yamuna Pushta, in the shanties built by families, who claim to have been living there for years, many were seen eating at noon.. “We got chawal for lunch and will get roti for dinner. The food service has resumed since Tuesday. Before the lockdown, the quality was good. Now it is not as palatable,” said Ramesh Kumar, who is from Ludhiana. He has been working in small hotels across the city for many years and was last at an eatery in Greater Noida. Another resident of the hutments made with plastic sheets and bamboo, Anil Sharma, said they were taken in buses to a shelter in Ghazipur on Tuesday. “The police there didn’t allow us to go in. So, we were brought back here,” said this man from Hoshiarpur, who works as a daily wager with caterers. According to activists, there are more than 10,000 people living on the Yamuna ghats of the city at the moment. Sunil Kumar Aledia, who has been working with the homeless in the city for two decades, said these include the migrants stranded due to the lockdown. “On Wednesday evening, nearly 1,100 people were shifted to nearby schools which are being used as shelters now by the government. A majority are still on the ghats,” he claimed. However, this didn’t include those under the bridge. Earlier in the day, chief minister Arvind Kejriwal had said that the government has made arrangements to shift hundreds of migrant workers and daily-wage earners who were living on the banks of the river. “Workers have gathered at Yamuna Ghat. Arrangements for their stay and food have been made. They have been ordered to shift immediately,” the chief minister said in a tweet, adding that there was no shortage of food and urged people to inform the government if anyone was hungry or homeless.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/migrants-trapped-on-riverbank-hungry-and-without-hope/articleshow/75169740.cms||Ritam Halder
April 16, 2020||Visakhapatnam||Stranded and homeless people find refuge in GVMC shelter homes||VISAKHAPATNAM: Temporary shelters set up by the Greater Visakhapatnam Municipal Corporation (GVMC) in the city have helped many stranded people as well as beggers, destitute and homeless people find a refuge. All the inmates are provided with breakfast and refreshments by community volunteers, while Akshaya Patra and Vanaprastam Old Age Home serves them cooked meals for lunch and dinner daily. “We have provided beds and blankets as well as toothpaste, toothbrushes and soaps to 225 people who are mostly beggars and orphans,” said Ramya Krishna, GVMC special officer for Covid-19 shelter at Subba Lakshmi Kalyana Mandapam in Dondaparthi. “During the first three days of the lockdown, we faced incidents like some inmates trying to climb the walls and run away, but we were able to bring the situation under control with the help of police personnel. We are also taking all precautionary measures with the help of sanitation workers to maintain hygiene. Sprinkling of bleaching powder in surroundings, regular cleaning of bathrooms apart from medical checkup of inmates are being done,” Krishna added. Doctors and health experts have opined that the homeless are at more risk of Covid-19 infection as many already suffer from illnesses such as tuberculosis and their morbidity rates are higher. “Cleanliness during these times is a huge task. If one person in a shelter gets infected, it’s going to be hard to control its spread,” said A V Rama Rao, in charge of Vamana Mandiram shelter. “Out of the 30 inmates that we have, most of them are migrant labourers from Uttar Pradesh, Bihar and Odisha. Five days ago, we sent one of them to King George Hospital with high fever,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/visakhapatnam/stranded-homeless-people-find-refuge-in-gvmc-shelter-homes/articleshow/75166955.cms||---
April 16, 2020||Vijayawada||11 of 13 Andhra Pradesh districts marked Covid hotspots: Centre||VIJAYAWADA: The Union health ministry on Wednesday identified 11 of the 13 districts in Andhra Pradesh as ‘hotspot districts’ or red zones with “large outbreaks” of Covid-19. These 11 districts are Visakhapatnam, East Godavari, West Godavari, Krishna, Guntur, Prakasam, Nellore, Kadapa, Kurnool, Anantapur and Chittoor. The only districts left out are Srikakulam and Vizianagaram. They have been classified as green zone districts. According to the health ministry, the hotspot districts have been classified either based on the criteria of the number of cases or on the growth rate of cases. The districts, which have not recorded any new cases in the last 28 days, are the green zone districts. When it comes to the criteria for shifting of the categories, a hotspot district will be declared as an orange zone district, if it did not record any new case in the last 14 days. And if the trend continues for the next 14 days in that particular district, it will be classified as a green zone district. The exercise of identification of hotspots will be done on a weekly basis. The major focus of the containment strategy for the hotspot districts will be on geographic quarantine with a complete clampdown on the movement of people in the area where the cases are reported. The containment operation would be deemed over when there is no case reported in 28 days since the day of last case tests negative. Meanwhile, the state government identified 42 mandals as red zones and 47 mandals as orange zones, while 587 mandals fall in the green zone list. According to the state officials, they are exploring the option of door-delivering the essential commodities in the red zone areas apart from intensifying the containment measures in these areas. Guntur, Kurnool and Nellore account for more than 55 percent cases in the state.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/11-of-13-ap-dists-marked-covid-hotspots-centre/articleshow/75166951.cms||---
April 16, 2020||Thiruvananthapuram||Covid-19: Only one patient under treatment in Thiruvananthapuram||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM: The concerns over spread of Covid-19 are subsiding in the district with only one person remaining Covid-positive. A 13-year-old girl at SAT Hospital is the only remaining case in the district as per official sources. The girl is healthy and doctors expect that she will soon turn negative. With no new case reported in the district for the past six days, health officials heave a sigh of relief. Along with the 13-year-old girl, her 8-year old brother who was cured of Covid-19 is also staying in the hospital. The two children got infected from their UAE-returned father, who has already recovered. SAT Hospital superintendent Dr A Santhosh Kumar said that the girl and her brother were on treatment at SAT after they were tested positive for coronavirus. “The boy has tested negative. Since he has acquired immunity and has been staying with her sister, we will be discharging them together,” he said. Of all the 16 positive cases reported from the district so far, only four were caused by local transmission. A Pothencode-native died after contracting Covid-19, but his source of infection is yet to be known. The district administration and health department conducted mass testing in the areas to rule out fear of community transmission in Pothencode. With the support of local bodies and health workers, the district administration was able to properly quarantine the foreign-returned persons. Concerns over spread of infection from persons who attended Tablighi meet at Nizamuddin subsided after the district was able to trace and conduct tests on 11 such persons. Of the around 20,000 persons quarantined in the district after the spread of Covid 19, there are only 2,539 under quarantine now. Of these, only 106 are in hospital. Around 129 persons have been quarantined on Wednesday, while 28 were admitted to hospital. On Wednesday, around 66 samples were sent for testing while results of 119 samples received were found to be negative. The health department is awaiting results of 86 samples. The district was declared a Covid-19 hotspot when there had been 15 cases. With the number reduced to only one, the district will be removed from the list of hotspots when the list is revised next. Meanwhile, the city police continue to register cases for lockdown violations. On Wednesday, city police booked 143 persons for violating lockdown norms. Out of these, provisions of Kerala epidemic diseases ordinance were invoked against 120 persons. They also seized 125 vehicles in this regard. City police commissioner Balramkumar Upadhyay said that the police will continue to maintain vigil in the wake of government deciding to extend the lockdown till May 3.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/thiruvananthapuram/covid-19-only-one-patient-under-treatment-in-district/articleshow/75166959.cms||---
April 16, 2020||Kolkata||Semester exams in West Bengal to be clubbed together||KOLKATA: Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee on Wednesday said students receiving degrees in the sixth semester (for the undergraduate programme) and tenth semester (for postgraduate programme) will have to appear in the examinations, after which they will be awarded their terminating degree certificates. For the rest of the students pursuing UG and PG courses, the semesters will be merged and an examination will be held in December 2020 or January 2021. For the students under the choice-based credit system (CBCS), universities will have to combine semesters. The second and third semesters will be held together and the fourth and fifth semesters will be clubbed together for UG students. Similarly, the eighth and ninth semesters will have to be combined in PG classes. “There is no time to pursue the mandated six weeks of classes before a semester examination,” a vice-chancellor said. Though students will appear in both the semesters successively, their examination dates and mark sheets will be separate. Thus, the second semester or fourth semester, which started in January, will be merged with the third and fifth semesters respectively that are scheduled to begin from July 1. By clubbing the two semesters, examinations will be held in either December 2020 or in January 2021. All universities have also decided to hold classes on Saturdays as well after the academic year resumes. On Wednesday morning, VCs submitted proposals to the higher education department based on their discussions with education minister Partha Chatterjee on Tuesday. Late on Wednesday, VCs attended another meeting with education secretary Manish Jain after chief minister Mamata Banerjee discussed the changes in higher education. “The CM’s decision regarding the final semester students in UG and PG are different than what was mentioned to us on Tuesday,” said a VC. As per the earlier plans, Bengal colleges and universities under CBCS would have allowed UG and PG students in the final semester to receive the terminating degree without appearing in any examination. It was suggested in Tuesday’s meeting that students were to be marked for their sixth semester (for UG) and tenth semester (for PG) based on the internal assessment and on the average of their cumulative grade points in the past semesters. The universities are now awaiting a circular from the higher education department for clarity on the next step. Presidency University VC Anuradha Lohia called an online meeting of the heads of departments where she requested them to discuss proposals for their faculties as each department has different needs. Proposals in case of colleges affiliated to Calcutta University following the old system of 1+1+1 are, however, different. “There is no provision under the old rules to award students marks based on the internal assessments or give them CGPA as in the CBCS. They will have to appear for the final exams,” a source said. Chatterjee said, “We shall issue a circular soon.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/semester-exams-to-be-clubbed-together/articleshow/75169750.cms||Somdatta Basu
April 16, 2020||Jaipur||Nine Iran evacuees test negative in Jaisalmer||Jaisalmer: In times of gloom due to coronavirus, there is cheerful news emerging from Jaisalmer. Out of 236 Indians, who were brought from Iran to Jaisalmer in the first batch, 17 were found positive for coronavirus. Now, nine of them, seven men and two women, have been cured. After recovery, they reached the Jaisalmer Military Station on Tuesday evening. They were admitted in AIIMS Hospital in Jodhpur. On the other hand, out of 30 people tested positive in Pokhran, report of nine has come out negative. Sources said that 22 Indians were brought from Jaisalmer to AIIMS who are also recovering. So far, 54 Indians brought from Iran had tested positive of which nine have recovered and the rest are undergoing treatment. Jaisalmer CMHO Dr B K Barupal said that repeat test of five positive patients was done and all reports were negative. Earlier, test of one patient had also come out negative. So far, six patients in Jaisalmer were tested positive and all have been tested negative in repeat tests.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/nine-iran-evacuees-test-negative-in-jaisalmer/articleshow/75160891.cms||---
April 16, 2020||Jaipur||2 sneak out of house to dig stones, buried alive||Kota: Two persons were killed after being buried under mounds of soil in Nainwa town of Bundi district on Tuesday noon. The two deceased were reportedly digging out stones from a pit. Police handed over the bodies to their family members after postmortem and lodged a case. The deceased Vinod Dhakad, 35, and Shankarlal Yadav, 32, were residents of ward no. 17 of Nainwa town in Bundi district. Despite lockdown, the two managed to sneak out around 2km away from their houses on the outskirts of the town to dig stones for construction at their houses, SHO Ramlal Meena said. People nearby noticed the incident and rushed to help them. However, they were declared brought dead at the local government hospital, he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/2-sneak-out-of-house-to-dig-stones-buried-alive/articleshow/75160887.cms||---
April 16, 2020||Coimbatore||Academic year proceeds sans glitches as CBSE schools set up virtual classrooms||Coimbatore: The lockdown and its extension amid the Covid-19 pandemic seem not to have fazed teachers and students of CBSE schools. For the last two weeks, they have been logging on to online portals from the safe confines of their homes to participate in classwork.The CBSE academic year started from April 1. The board had instructed schools to conduct online classes to ensure that academic activities go on undisturbed. Subsequently, Kendriya Vidyalaya as well as private schools have been conducting online classes.With structured time tables, sessions and regular breaks, the classes have been going on smoothly, said teachers and principals. While some Kendriya Vidyalayas have been sharing study material and tests online with students, private CBSE schools have been conducting live sessions through Zoom and Skype. Teachers improvise the sessions using blackboards or whatever means and materials they have at home. Teachers and students at Vivekam Senior Secondary School in Saravanampatti have been logging onto Skype for classes, said principal Lily Princy. “We give 10 minutes for students to get prepared before each session. There are two sessions every day. Some teachers who have blackboards at home use them in the sessions,” she said.Some schools have asked students to wear uniforms or follow a dress code even when they log in from homes to create a classroom atmosphere. President of the CBSE Schools Management Association (CSMA) C S Manoharan said schools have been insisting on students wearing uniform or following a proper dress code in the Zoom virtual classroom sessions. “We ensure there is a classroom atmosphere. Teachers have a blackboard and while they use it, the camera is focused on it. Students would be in mute mode while the class is on and are allowed to clear doubts later,” he said. Considering all students may not have uniform gadgets at home to log on to the sessions, Manoharan said they are free to log in using a desktop, a laptop, a tablet or as a last resort, a mobile phone. The CBSE has asked schools to use resources from the Diksha website, E-Pathshala portal, Swayam portal, and the YouTube channels of the National Institute of Open Schooling (NIOS) and CBSE.V Meganathan, principal of Kendriya Vidyalaya in Sulur, said they were using resources from the portals. “We also have live sessions in Zoom. There are two sessions each in the morning and afternoon. We also give them tests online,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/academic-year-proceeds-sans-glitches-as-cbse-schools-set-up-virtual-classrooms/articleshow/75169751.cms||---
April 16, 2020||Ahmedabad||Dyestuff manufacturers seek soft loans to pay labourers||Ahmedabad: Gujarat Dyestuff Manufacturers’ Association (GDMA), on Wednesday, made a representation before the state and central governments, seeking that banks give soft loans to the industry to meet working capital needs and pay labourers. GDMA has sought a stimulus package worth Rs 1 lakh crore, from the state and central government. The association members said it will be very difficult to pay labourers for the upcoming month as there has been no business.“There is a great impact on domestic and international demand during the lockdown period, which has now been extended till May 3. With cancellation of both domestic and export orders, industries are bearing major revenue losses. Despite the loss, industries have duly cleared the pending dues of all the labourers for the month of March. However, at a time when manufacturing activity has come to a standstill and there is no business, it is extremely difficult to pay the labourers,” said Yogesh Parikh, president, GDMA.“In such circumstances, banks should extend soft loans to industries at a very low interest rate so that the financial difficulties faced by the industries can be abated to a great extent,” said Parikh.“We request the state and central governments that a package worth Rs 1 lakh crore be announced for chemicals, dyestuff and MSMEs at the earliest to prevent MSMEs from shutting down due to working capital crisis,” the representation further mentions.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/dyestuff-manufacturers-seek-soft-loans-to-pay-labourers/articleshow/75169753.cms||---
April 16, 2020||Dehradun||U’khand seeks nod to bring Kedarnath, Badrinath priests for opening portals||Dehradun: Uttarakhand government has written to the Union ministry of home affairs seeking special permission for the head priests of Kedarnath and Badrinath shrines so that they can come to the state for opening the portals of the two revered shrines. Confirming the development, state minister Dhan Singh Rawat told TOI, “The head priest of Kedarnath is presently in Maharashtra and that of Badrinath is in Kerala. We have written to the Union ministry of home affairs to grant us special permission to fly the priests from those states to Uttarakhand. On Monday, chief minister Trivendra Singh Rawat even spoke to those priests and explained them the plan to bring them to Uttarakhand.” The minister added that once they get the nod, a state-owned plane would fly from Dehradun’s Jolly Grant Airport to bring the priests to Uttarakhand. “According to the guidelines of Union ministry of health, the head priests would undergo 15-day quarantine in Ukhimath and would also undergo all tests,” said Rawat. Bhimashankar Ling, the head priest of Kedarnath, has also written to Prime Minister Narendra Modi asking for the permission to travel by road from Maharashtra’s Nanded district to Uttarakhand before April 29. Meanwhile, Congress legislator Manoj Rawat told TOI, “The state government must ensure that both the priests are present at the time of opening of the portals so that the centuries-old tradition is not overlooked. Looking back at our history, we find that even during the times of Mughal and British rule, head priests were always present during the portal opening ceremony.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/ukhand-seeks-nod-to-bring-kedarnath-badrinath-priests-for-opening-portals/articleshow/75168646.cms||Yogesh Kumar
April 16, 2020||Coimbatore||Man abuses cop for not letting him in sealed area||Coimbatore: A 34-year-old man was arrested on Tuesday noon for attempting to enter the cordoned off area of Amman Kovil Junction in Kuniyamuthur, from where a number of Covid-19 positive cases has been reported. Police identified the offender as B Mohammed Safiq, a resident of SNR Garden in Kuniyamuthur. According to a police source, Safiq attempted to enter the area that was sealed to contain local transmission of the virus around 12 noon on Tuesday when sub-inspector Sowbarnika, who is attached to all-woman police station (central), was on duty at Amman Kovil Junction. “When the official refused to let him in stating the area was sealed and that no one was allowed in or out, he argued with her and verbally abused her,” the source said. The sub-inspector subsequently lodged a complaint against Safiq, based on which the Kuniyamuthur police booked him under Sections 269 (negligent act likely to spread infection of any disease dangerous to life), 270 (malignant act likely to spread infection of any disease dangerous to life) and 353 (preventing a public servant from discharging her duty) of the Indian Penal Code and Section 4 of the Tamil Nadu Prohibition Women Harassment Act. He was arrested and produced before a judicial magistrate, who remanded him in judicial custody. Safiq was later lodged in Avinashi sub-jail.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/man-abuses-cop-for-not-letting-him-in-sealed-area/articleshow/75169744.cms||---
April 16, 2020||Bareilly||Man rapes & kills daughter suspecting her to be result of wife’s illicit affair||Bareilly: A father admitted to having raped and killed his 8-year-old daughter because he suspected his wife of cheating on him, and the daughter to be a result of her illicit relationship. The body of the girl had been recovered from a neighbour’s toilet on March 29 in Fatehganj West area of Bareilly district.Police had earlier registered an FIR against the neighbour, but truth was revealed during the investigation. The accused was sent to jail on Wednesday after he was produced before a remand magistrate.According to police, the girl had gone missing sometime during the evening on the day of the incident. Announcements were made through a local mosque’s PA system, but she couldn’t be found. Later in the night, her body was recovered from a toilet, and the girl’s father had an FIR registered against a local youth.SHO Fatehganj West Chandrakiran detained the accused and sent him to jail, but he said he was not convinced the youth had committed the murder, as he was sleeping inside his house when he was caught.After thorough investigation, police found out that the girl’s father often used to quarrel with his wife, and mistreat his daughter. The father had also repeatedly changed his statement. By then, the girl’s mother had expressed suspicion about her husband. It emerged the father had also borrowed money on interest from the accused, giving credence to a financial motivation behind his naming the accused. Finally, forensic evidence collected from the spot and the girl’s body also indicated the father’s involvement in the crime.Additional SP (rural) Sansaar Singh said, “When we started the investigation, the girl’s mother had indicated that her husband could have had committed the murder. A day after we questioned him for the second time, he changed his statement and then went absconding. He was caught on Tuesday, when he confessed to have raped and killed his daughter, as he suspected she was a result of his wife’s illicit relationship with another man. The youth who was earlier booked will now be acquitted. He was framed because he had lent some money to the accused.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/man-rapes-kills-daughter-suspecting-her-to-be-result-of-wifes-illicit-affair/articleshow/75168616.cms||Kanwardeep Singh
April 16, 2020||Thiruvananthapuram||‘Lockdown’ for vehicles too! Demand for mechanics rises||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM: Binu Wilson is an automobile electrical technician by profession, whose job profile involves recharging or replacing batteries of vehicles. With the lockdown entering the fourth week, he has become increasingly busy. It has become difficult to spot him at home as he is flooded with calls from customers seeking his service to get their vehicles revived. “It is mostly middle-aged and senior citizens who are calling me for help,” Binu Wilson, a resident of Nalanchira, said adding most of them followed lockdown restrictions diligently and avoided going out.  “Their occasional outings were restricted to the nearest grocery shops and thus they completely forgot about their vehicles. Not turning on their vehicles at regular intervals cost them dearly as the batteries got drained,” he said. Wilson added that for the past few days he has been getting at least 40 to 50 batteries per day for maintenance. Majority of the batteries are collected from households. While, recharging costs around Rs.200, now transportation charges too have also been added. Around 12hours are needed to recharge a battery and at a time 12 batteries can be recharged at his place. “It’s not just senior citizens who are affected, many disabled persons are also facing the issue,” said Vinayakan, another auto electrical technician at Maruthamkzhy in the city adding that he serviced as many as seven modified motorcycles of disabled persons in the past three days. Former HM motors mechanical engineer S Stephen said, “If a vehicle is not in use for a long period, it should be started for at least 12 minutes once in 10 days. Else, the battery must be disconnected. Most of the vehicles have 24-hour security sensor working. This also leads to increased working of batteries,” Also, care must be given to handbrake and tyre pressure too, added Stephen, who is now an engineering instructor at technical education department. The trend observed now is that batteries which were in use for two to three years are getting drained. With proper maintenance, a battery can be used for up to five years.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/thiruvananthapuram/lockdown-for-vehicles-toodemand-for-mechanics-rises/articleshow/75166979.cms||Nidhin A S
April 16, 2020||Visakhapatnam||Telugu man delivers essentials to the elderly in England||VISAKHAPATNAM: In a bid to control the increasing number of Covid-19 cases in its country, the British government has asked senior citizens with comorbid conditions to isolate themselves. But for many of the aged who live alone or at care homes, the task is unsurmountable. Hence, Dreamsai, an organisation in Milton Keynes, England, has stepped in to support all elderly above 65 years-old. Vijayawada man, Laxman R Kastala, is the founder and chair of Dreamsai organisation. Along with his team, they have distributed free food, hampers of essential items to over 300 elderly people in and around Milton Keynes who live alone. Each hamper consists of around 30 essential items like fruits, vegetables, bread, soups, rice, pasta, water bottles and handwash among others. The hamper has provision for 10 days. Speaking to TOI, a few of the senior citisens from England said that self-isolation for them has resulted in a lot of difficulties. They are unable to go out to bring essentials due to the strict restrictions. Even online shopping is not easy anymore. Either they are unable to navigate the technicalities or are unable to get delivery slots. “Panic buying at supermarkets have only compounded our problems as most of the essential items are out of stock,” said Jessie Adams (name changed). It was after factoring in these problems that Dreamsai decided to launch the initiative. Laxman, who was recentluy recognised by the High Sheriff Buckinghamshire for his leadership and contribution towards the community of Milton Keynes, where he now resides, said, “Either we receive calls from the aged themselves, or their children staying in a different city or country and are unable to help their parents contact us. In some cases we received requests from hospitals.” “We have a team of 50 volunteers, including men, women and children, who have been working on this for the past one month. Till now, we have helped over 300 people. And they are all between 65 years to 100 years old,” added Laxman. Eighty-six-year-old Max Dupayn (name changed) in self-isolation and one of the recipients of the hamper, said, “I am thankful to Dreamsai. I am deeply moved, and I can’t thank the Indian community enough.” A 75-year-old mental health worker, Caroline Mellock (name changed), who is also in self-isolation, said, “I have not been able to see anyone for the past few weeks. The food pack, which I received contained all the essential items and I think they will last me for two weeks, at least. I never expected to receive such a package in these dreary times. It was so beautifully wrapped that it made my day.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/visakhapatnam/telugu-man-delivers-essentials-to-the-elderly-in-england/articleshow/75166965.cms||Reshma Jain
April 16, 2020||Dehradun||Poornagiri Mela cancelled for the year due to Covid-19||Tanakpur (Champawat): The Champawat district administration has decided to terminate the Poornagiri fair before the scheduled time this year in view of the outbreak of novel Coronavirus. The decision was taken after a meeting with the office-bearers of the Poornagiri Mela Samiti. "After a meeting in Banbasa, the district magistrate of Champawat has issued an order to terminate the Poornagiri fair due to Covid-19 scare. The administration will now start the work of removing government facilities installed in the fair complex,” Dayanand Saraswati, sub-divisional magistrate of Tanakpur, told TOI. The Poornagiri fair, which starts from the next day of Holi every year, was suspended for some time due to the previous lockdown call. The officials wanted to resume the fair, which started on March 16 this year, after the threat of coronavirus outbreak subsides. But now, the fair has been cancelled for the year in view of the ongoing crisis. The office-bearers of Poornagiri temple committee have also welcomed the decision. Bhuvan Pandey, president of the committee, told TOI, "The fair has now been officially cancelled due to coronavirus. Now, darshan (visit) and other public functions in the temple will be resumed only after the lockdown is lifted.'' Notably, thousands of people come to Poornagiri fair from several areas of Uttarakhand, Uttar Pradesh, and Nepal every year. Many traders involved in the fair will have to bear losses due to the decision. Saraswati has said that the administration is still assessing the loss due to an early termination of the fair.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/poornagiri-mela-cancelled-for-the-year-due-to-covid-19/articleshow/75168665.cms||Rohit Joshi
April 16, 2020||Coimbatore||Male elephant dies of injuries at Semmedu||Coimbatore: A five-year-old male elephant was found dead with injuries at Semmedu near Alandurai on Wednesday.District forest officer D Venkatesh said, “The elephant had bruises all over its body and mouth,” he said.The elephant had been roaming on the banks of Noyyal, he said. He said when they got information on Wednesday morning, they had sent a team with a doctor to the spot. “When we reached the spot around 2.45pm, we found the elephant lying dead,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/male-elephant-dies-of-injuries-at-semmedu/articleshow/75169755.cms||---
April 16, 2020||Mangaluru||Coast keeps up supply of essentials to North Kerala||Mangaluru: Supply of essential commodities from Karnataka to Kerala, despite the temporary closure of the border at Talapady, is going on unhindered. The northern parts of Kerala are getting regular supplies of items through the checkpost at Talapady in Dakshina Kannada. The district administration has ensured that the decision by the state government to close the border does not deprive Kerala of its rightful share of essential items. The dust is settling on the other issue that was the bone of contention between the two states – emergency medical treatment for patients from Kasaragod in medical facilities in this coastal city, and the administration is keeping a strict vigil on both these issues. Kasaragod and Malabar regions of Kerala depend on the state for their essential supplies, including rice, cereals and pulses. Coastal Karnataka sources copra, coconut oil and rubber sheets from Kerala. Dakshina Kannada deputy commissioner Sindhu B Rupesh said that there have been no issues in the movement of essential commodities to Kerala through Talapady on NH-66. Section 2 of the Epidemic Diseases Act, 1897, that the state government issued on March 31, has only barred the movement of patients across the state borders in view of acute shortage of healthcare facilities in the state. This order has not hindered the movement of essential commodities. Aiding the district administration in this endeavour is the Old Bunder Wholesale Kirana Merchants Association. “We have adhered to the direction that the district administration has given us on ensuring supply of essential items to Kerala,” said Panduranga Bhandarkar, president of the association. Incidentally, the wholesale sub-market here is the main source of commodities for Kerala and places in North Kerala, up to Payyanur and Kannur, used to get commodities from here. Mangalore Refinery and Petrochemicals Ltd, the lone petrochemical complex in Karnataka, is catering to the fuel requirements of North Kerala. Bullet tankers carrying LPG to bottling plants to North Kerala, and fuel tankers are transporting petrol or diesel there, which are being moved from the refinery at Kuthethur, on a routine basis. Oil marketing companies in Kerala source their products from MRPL, albeit not at the scale they used to earlier, a MRPL functionary said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mangaluru/coast-keeps-up-supply-of-essentials-to-north-kerala/articleshow/75164258.cms||---
April 16, 2020||Bareilly||Leopard found prowling in Bareilly village||Bareilly: Panic gripped Gurva village in Bareilly district after a few locals working in a field spotted a leopard sitting near a water pump on Wednesday. The leopard later moved to an adjoining wheat field. Upon getting information from villagers, forest department officials and a police team from Sirauli police station rushed to the village. They were monitoring the area till the filing of this report. According to police, the feline was first spotted by one Chhatrapal Maurya, who was working in his field, and he alerted the village head and other villagers. Divisional forest officer Bharat Lal said, “The leopard later moved to a wheat field. Teams of forest department and police are monitoring the field. We will go to the spot on Thursday and track the location of leopard using drone camera. At bthe same time, we will also decide whether the big cat will be tranquilised or trapped.” “Due to the lockdown, the movement of wild animals has increased, and hence, leopard strayed into the village,” he added. Sanjay Garg, station house officer, Sirauli police station, said, “Our team is camping in the area and we are ensuring that both leopard and humans are safe.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/leopard-found-prowling-in-bareilly-village/articleshow/75168644.cms||Priyangi Agarwal
April 16, 2020||India||Army chief to visit J&K amid surge in Pak firing along LoC||NEW DELHI: Army chief General M M Naravane will head to Kashmir on Thursday to review the operational situation and preparedness in the backdrop of the surge in ceasefire violations and infiltration attempts along the line of control, which comes at a time when both India and Pakistan are grappling with the coronavirus pandemic. Gen Naravane in particular will be visiting the 15 Corps headquarters in Srinagar and the 28 Infantry Mountain Division in Kupwara during his two-day tour to discuss the ongoing counter-infiltration and counter-terrorist operations with the commanders on the ground, said sources on Wednesday. The visit comes soon after the recent spike in ceasefire violations (CFVs) along the 778-km LoC, with both the Indian and Pakistani armies deploying artillery guns and anti-tank guided missiles to target each other’s posts and locations, as was reported earlier by TOI. The Indian Army on April 10 had used 105mm field guns as well as 155mm Bofors howitzers to target terror launch pads, ammunition dumps and gun positions in the Dudhniyal area opposite the Keran sector of Kupwara. The Keran sector was also the site of the fierce close-quarter gun-battle in which five terrorists were killed on April 5. Five Indian Para-SF commandos, unfortunately, had also laid down their lives in the encounter after being air-dropped by helicopters in the snow-bound heights. India has already recorded well over 1,200 CFVs this year, with 367 in January, 382 in February and 411 in March. Last year, there were as many as 3,479 CFVs and firings across the LoC and the 198-km international border in J&K, the highest number recorded since 2003||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/army-chief-to-visit-jk-amid-surge-in-pak-firing-along-loc/articleshow/75171336.cms||---
April 16, 2020||Goa||NRI commission compiling data of seafarers abroad||PANAJI: Even as it waits for the Centre to consider its request to allow seafarers stranded across the globe to be brought home, the NRI commission is compiling details of Goans stuck abroad, including a few land-based employees. The commission said it has received details of around 5,000 persons so far. “Where seafarers are concerned, all state governments are sailing in the same boat. The government of India has not relaxed the ban. They may consider our request after April 20,” director of NRI affairs and nodal officer appointed to deal with the seafarers’ issue, Anthony D’Souza said. Stating that their office was working overtime to gather and compile seafarers’ data and share it with the director of civil aviation, D’Souza said, “We are also constantly in touch with missions abroad, who then reach out to Goans there.” The office is receiving hundreds of phone calls, emails and WhatsApp messages and representations from family members worried about their loved ones, following which it contacts the Indian embassies abroad, who get in touch with the Goans there, he said. Some who went abroad for internships have run out of money, while others who went on visit visas to meet family are also stuck. But the most worrisome lot are the seafarers on cruiseliners who fear they will contract Covid-19 if they spend any more days onboard. Although many are isolated in their own cabins and are being fed, the food is being rationed out. “They get dinner at 6pm but it’s not sufficient. They get nothing else until breakfast and they cannot buy any food as all shops onboard are closed. They are also given 1.5 litre of drinking water every day,” the wife of a seafarer told TOI. Recently an Indian seafarer tested positive onboard the same vessel and was moved out. “Some have been quarantined and others isolated. The government should have taken quick action and brought them back. Once they are in their own country there is no fear. There were no positive cases onboard initially. Perhaps the man got infected as the food supply is brought in from outside,” the wife said. The crew get a half-hour break every day so that they can take in some fresh air on the open deck while maintaining social distancing before they each return to their cabins.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/nri-commission-compiling-data-of-seafarers-abroad/articleshow/75169774.cms||Lisa Monteiro
April 16, 2020||Dehradun||Online classes launched for students of state govt schools||DEHRADUN: In order to ensure that the students don’t fall behind their school syllabus, the state education department has started online classes for students of the state government schools. The students are being taught by their respective teachers with the help of various social media platforms. "Different WhatsApp groups have been created for the students in which they are being given study material and home tasks. Besides, other social media platforms are also being used. Students of all state government schools from Class I-XII are part of this programme," said Asha Rani Painuly, chief education officer. When asked whether the education department will be able to cover all students under this programme, Painuly replied, “There won’t be a single student left out as almost every household possesses a mobile phone through which they can access social media platforms.” Meanwhile, the education department has also announced that the remaining exams of the Uttarakhand State Board will take place 10 days after the lockdown is lifted. To recall, the education department had postponed its board exams from March 23 due to Covid-19 threat. The board examination of Classes X and XII were supposed to conclude by March 25. Also, the department has stated that there is no need for schools to conduct exams for Classes IX and XI if any school is yet to conclude them and students will be promoted based on their performance in previous exams.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/online-classes-launched-for-students-of-state-govt-schools/articleshow/75168686.cms||Mohammad Anab
April 16, 2020||Ahmedabad||Grains in soup: Big APMCs not to open now||AHMEDABAD: Though the state government has announced that APMCs will begin trading in food grains and other commodities from Wednesday, several key APMCs like Gondal, Unjha and Rajkot have decided to do so only after interstate transport resumes.  On Wednesday, some APMCs in north Gujarat did their muhurat trading and purchased grains like wheat and cumin from some farmers. Other APMCs are still working out modalities. Mahesh Vadodaria, secretary, Gondal APMC, said that red chillies, cumin, cotton and groundnut are sent to Rajasthan, Tamil Nadu, Maharashtra and Uttar Pradesh. However, traders are apprehensive that whatever purchases they make will have to be stored till lockdown eases and inter-district and interstate transport resumes. Further, traders are reluctant to go to villages to procure, as collection of harvest produce requires at least eight labourers to be economically viable, and such operations will not be permitted by police who will treat it as violation of Section 144. Vadodaria also said that in absence of competition it will be easy for traders to manipulate prices. Vishnu Patel, secretary, Unjha APMC said, “We are waiting for relaxation of the lockdown likely by April 20. We will then begin trading as it will not be problematic to send agricultural produce to processing industries or to other states.” Patel said they are collecting data about the farmers and their phone numbers so that they can be called on schedule. D K Sakhia, the president of Rajkot APMC, said, “We are meeting tomorrow to work out how to operate. Traders or agents could visit villages to purchase directly from farmers, or farmers can be called to the APMC in turns. However, trading at the APMC will begin only after April 21, when restrictions are relaxed.” A secretary of an APMC in north Gujarat said that even during the initial 21-day lockdown there was permission for movement of essential goods, but transporters claimed that their drivers were harassed and were forced to park their trucks on the road and wait. He said that almost all APMCs will wait for the restrictions to ease, and some may commence full-fledged trading only after May 3.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/grains-in-soup-big-apmcs-not-to-open-now/articleshow/75169792.cms||Himanshu Kaushik
April 16, 2020||Coimbatore||PHC doctor from Ooty dies in Coimbatore||UDHAGAMANDALAM: A 31-year-old doctor with a primary health centre in Thengumarahada in the Nilgiris died in a private hospital in Coimbatore on Wednesday. While some reports claimed that he was a suspected case of Covid-19, Nilgiris collector J Innocent Divya said the doctor had tested negative for the virus. Dr Jaimohan, who passed away in a private hospital in Coimbatore, was a native of Sirumugai Village near Mettupalayam. According to Dr P Balusamy, deputy director, public health, Dr Jaimohan was admitted to PSG Hospital in Coimbatore with persistent fever on the night of April 12. “He was treated there for three days. However, he tested negative for Covid-19. He also tested negative for dengue feve.” He added, “The hospital authorities suspect ‘scrub-typhus’. The patient also suffered multi-organ failure. We are yet to get a detailed report of cause of death of the medical officer.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/phc-doctor-from-ooty-dies-in-city/articleshow/75169775.cms||---
April 16, 2020||Bareilly||Grocery shop owner booked for black marketing||Pilibhit: A grocery shop owner was booked for allegedly black marketing on Tuesday night, following a written complaint lodged by two lekhpals of Pilibhit Sadar tehsil. According to lekhpals Vinod Kumar and Ravi Kumar Singh, following the directions of Pilibhit Sadar circle tehsildar Vivek Kumar Mishra, they were conducting a drive to check black marketing of essential commodities and bought 500 gm of moong dal from Uttam Provisional Store in Asafjan locality under Pilibhit kotwali. The shopkeeper charged Rs 60 for half a kg against Rs 100 per kg, the price fixed by the district administration, without issuing a cash memo, they said. The lekhpals said they immediately informed to district food and marketing officer Avinash Jha about it and he sent area food inspector Bhupendra Kumar on the spot. An FIR was registered against shop owner Dilip Kumar under section 3/7 of the Essential Commodities Act, said Pilibhit kotwali SHO Shrikant Dwivedi.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/grocery-shop-owner-booked-for-black-marketing/articleshow/75168679.cms||---
April 16, 2020||Coimbatore||Lockdown leaves papaya, banana farmers in limbo||Coimbatore: P V Arumugam, a farmer in Gandhavayal village in Sirumugai near the city, had decided to cultivate papayas for the first time this season and planted 3,000 Red Lady variety on four acres of his land. The trees bore fruit and late in March, were ready to be harvested. Then came the nationwide lockdown. With no farmhands to harvest the fruit and no means of transportation, the fruits are on the verge of getting wasted, said Arumugam. “I had invested Rs 4 lakh expecting to get a profit of Rs 10 lakh. Even if I manage to take it to the market, traders want only 200 to 300 kilograms. Also, the market is open only till 10am due to the restriction in place,” he told TOI. M Ammasaikutti, another farmer in the village, said on normal days, they could expect a kilogram of papaya to fetch about Rs 20. “But now, the price has fallen to less thanRs 10,” he said. As much as 2,000 acres in the region is under banana cultivation. “Varieties such as sevvazhai, nendran and kathali are cultivated here. A part of the banana crop is ready for harvest. But as there is no transport, ripe banana also faces the risk of being wasted,” said Ammasaikutti. “Price of banana has fallen by Rs 10 to Rs 20.” Meanwhile, horticulture department officials promised to help the farmers. Block-level officials will intervene and help the farmers sell their produce, an official told TOI.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/lockdown-leaves-papaya-banana-farmers-in-limbo/articleshow/75169767.cms||---
April 16, 2020||Dehradun||Mansa Devi Temple Trust prez urges all temples to donate for Covid-19 fight||Haridwar: Swami Ravindra Puri, president of Mansa Devi Temple Trust in Haridwar, who recently donated Rs 1.17 crore (including cash donation and food and ration distribution) for fight against Covid-19, has called upon the management of all temples in the country to donate generously to the government’s fund created to tackle the crisis. Puri, who is also the Niranjani Akhada secretary, told TOI, "The country’s temples owe their entire property to the people. It is their duty to come out to help them during such a big crisis." Since the imposition of lockdown, Puri said he has been spending Rs 65,000 per day on meals for the poor, which has cost Rs 16 lakh so far. He also claimed to have distributed food grains worth Rs 32 lakh. Apart from this, he said that he has donated Rs 69 lakh to the government’s relief fund.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/mansa-devi-temple-trust-prez-urges-all-temples-to-donate-for-covid-19-fight/articleshow/75168709.cms||Sheo S Jaiswal
April 16, 2020||Jodhpur||Sample collection doubles to 1k per day in Jodhpur||JODHPUR: With corona positive cases skyrocketing in Jodhpur, especially with a major spurt in past three days from the two hotspots of the city, the administration has expedited sampling in these areas from Wednesday taking it to 1,000 approximately per day from the existing 400-500 samples. Over 37 lab technicians have been called in from rural areas to assist the team which is already in the field in two hotspots, Nagori Gate and Udaimandir, taking samples of the suspected persons with influenza-like illness (ILI) symptoms. “We have called in 37 lab technicians from rural areas and have provided them training for taking samples in the field. These technicians have been roped in on Wednesday with a targeted samples of 1000 persons”, said Deputy Director (Medical & Health) Sunil Kumar Bist, who has been roped in by the state government with a special order on Tuesday with the direction to the CMHO Balwant Manda to report to him. It may be noted that with 105 cases reported in Jodhpur by Wednesday morning, 85 have been reported from these two hotspots. Entire administration has its focus on these areas with regard to door to door survey and taking samples of symptomatic cases. But against the need of expediting the sampling, there were hardly 400-500 samples had been taken per day. “We have focus on taking as much samples as possible in these areas in first phase. Hopefully, it will be completed in next 2 days as we have set up 37 centers for taking samples in these areas. People have been asked to come to these centers for giving their samples”, said Bist adding that positive cases will be sent to hospital and contacts for those will be sent to quarantine centers. Bist said that 20 more lab technicians will be reporting to us on Thursday and with this enhanced field staff, we would focus on sampling of those vendors like vegetable sellers, milk suppliers and likes, who have been regularly visiting these hotpots. “This will be hopefully completed in one day, after which, we would move to other areas of the city, primarily, where the cases have been reported.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jodhpur/sample-collection-doubles-to-1k-per-day-in-jodhpur/articleshow/75172846.cms||---
April 16, 2020||Jaipur||Sample collection doubles to 1k per day in Jodhpur||JODHPUR: With corona positive cases skyrocketing in Jodhpur, especially with a major spurt in past three days from the two hotspots of the city, the administration has expedited sampling in these areas from Wednesday taking it to 1,000 approximately per day from the existing 400-500 samples. Over 37 lab technicians have been called in from rural areas to assist the team which is already in the field in two hotspots, Nagori Gate and Udaimandir, taking samples of the suspected persons with influenza-like illness (ILI) symptoms. “We have called in 37 lab technicians from rural areas and have provided them training for taking samples in the field. These technicians have been roped in on Wednesday with a targeted samples of 1000 persons”, said Deputy Director (Medical & Health) Sunil Kumar Bist, who has been roped in by the state government with a special order on Tuesday with the direction to the CMHO Balwant Manda to report to him. It may be noted that with 105 cases reported in Jodhpur by Wednesday morning, 85 have been reported from these two hotspots. Entire administration has its focus on these areas with regard to door to door survey and taking samples of symptomatic cases. But against the need of expediting the sampling, there were hardly 400-500 samples had been taken per day. “We have focus on taking as much samples as possible in these areas in first phase. Hopefully, it will be completed in next 2 days as we have set up 37 centers for taking samples in these areas. People have been asked to come to these centers for giving their samples”, said Bist adding that positive cases will be sent to hospital and contacts for those will be sent to quarantine centers. Bist said that 20 more lab technicians will be reporting to us on Thursday and with this enhanced field staff, we would focus on sampling of those vendors like vegetable sellers, milk suppliers and likes, who have been regularly visiting these hotpots. “This will be hopefully completed in one day, after which, we would move to other areas of the city, primarily, where the cases have been reported.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/sample-collection-doubles-to-1k-per-day-in-jodhpur/articleshow/75169796.cms||---
April 16, 2020||Bareilly||Crowds defy wholesale mkt lockdown on first day of relaxation||Bareilly: A day after district Vyapar Mandal members met magistrate Nitish Kumar to extract a two-hour relief for the market at Shyamganj to operate from 10 am to 6 pm, instead of 4 am to 10 am, hundreds of people thronged the area on Wednesday, making a mockery of lockdown in the city, as the wholesale market for groceries, etc, remained open for the extended period.There were hundreds of people on the roads of Shyamganj’s wholesale market area lining up to buy grocery and other essentials on wholesale, as most shops remained open throughout the day. Earlier, only a few designated shops were being allowed to keep open during the stipulated time.Speaking to TOI, president, UP Udyog Vyapar Mandal, Rajendra Gupta said, “Ever since the lockdown came into force, a few shopkeepers and traders in Shaymganj were being allowed to open their shops, that too, between 4 am and 10 am. Even then, people were assembling near these shops to buy essentials. We thought by shifting the opening time from 4 am to 10 am and extending it till late evening, we’ll make it easier for everyone, as buyers won’t crowd knowing shops will remain open for a longer duration. But things didn’t go as per plan.”He added, “We wanted to ensure that social distancing was maintained, but it happened otherwise. Looking at the situation, we decided to withdraw our request and have asked the administration to take appropriate measures. We’ll follow whatever guidelines are now given.”DM Nitish Kumar told TOI, “We’ve called for another meeting with members of Vyapar Mandal, following which, a decision will taken regarding the time period for which shops in the area will remain open. Since most of them are grocery stores and sell essentials, these won’t be shut and it is likely that a few shop owners, traders will be granted permission to open shops for a shorter period like before. We’ll also focus on home delivery to ensure that lockdown guidelines and social distancing are maintained.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/crowds-defy-wholesale-mkt-lockdown-on-first-day-of-relaxation/articleshow/75168701.cms||Maria Khan
April 16, 2020||Jaipur||5 women held for throwing spit bags in Kota houses||Kota: Five women who were caught on CCTV camera throwing polythene bags filled with spit into houses in Vallabhvadi area under Gumanpura police station of Kota on Sunday, were arrested late on Monday. On Tuesday, they were sent to a jail in Bundi. Notably, in the wake of coronavirus outbreak, the government had put a ban on spitting in public places. During preliminary investigation, the women admitted that they had thrown spit filled polythene bags into the houses over being denied alms. However, they denied spreading coronavirus infection. “Taking a serious note of the incident, a team led by Manoj Sikarwar, SHO, Gumanpura, and cyber cell in-charge Pratap Singh carried out an intensive examination of CCTV footages to trace the women involved,” said Kota city SP Gaurav Yadav. The five accused women were arrested from a slum in Kunhari area on Monday evening. They belong to Bawari community and begged for a living, he added. “The five women, identified as Mala Bawari (30), Anariya Bawari (65), Dulari Bawari (35), Asha Bawari (35) and Chanda Bawari (20), residents of Bapu Kacchi Basti in Kunhari, were on Tuesday produced before the court that ordered to send them to jail under 14-day judicial custody,” said Sikarwar. The women were sent to a jail in Bundi, he added. Following the incident, a sanitisation drive was carried out in Vallabhvadi area by Kota Municipal Corporation on Sunday as a precautionary measure. Meanwhile, a 42 year-old-man from Makabara area of Kota city on Tuesday tested positive for Covid-19.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/5-women-held-for-throwing-spit-bags-in-kota-houses/articleshow/75160893.cms||---
April 16, 2020||Coimbatore||City hospitals contribute generously to fight Covid||Coimbatore: Some of the city’s multi-specialty hospitals authorised to treat Covid-19 patients have contributed generously to the chief minister’s covid relief fund to help combat the disease. While GKNM Hospital handed over a Rs 1 crore cheque to local administration minister S P Velumani on Wednesday, the PSG and Sons Charities handed over the same amount to Coimbatore collector K Rajamani. Kovai Medical Center and Hospital also made a contribution worth 1 core for the cause.TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/city-hospitals-contribute-generously-to-fight-covid/articleshow/75169790.cms||---
April 16, 2020||Goa||‘Rescue 65 Goans stuck in Indian waters’||PANAJI: President of the Goan Seafarers’ Association of India, Frank Viegas said that 65 Goan seafarers are stuck aboard the vessel Marella Discovery 1 because they were not allowed to disembark in Goa, although the vessel travelled from Kochi to Mumbai on Monday. The vessel has around 200 Indians on board in all and is presently off the Mumbai coast. Viegas said that while the ship’s main business ports are Kochi and Mumbai, the captain was willing to dock at Goa to disembark Goan seafarers. “The government was not ready. Talks are now on with the management of the cruise and the Maharashtra government. With the assurance given by Goa CM on Wednesday, the crew are likely to be disembarked,” Viegas said. He added that the vessel is expected to be in Indian waters for another four days. It was in Kochi for the purpose of bunkering and remained off the coast for around 20 days, he said. “If they are not given clearance in Maharashtra this vessel will proceed to Europe and take our seafarers from a safe zone to an unsafe zone,” Viegas said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/rescue-65-goans-stuck-in-indian-waters/articleshow/75169788.cms||---
April 16, 2020||Bareilly||UP: Doctors, cops injured as mob targets health workers in Moradabad||BAREILLY: A team of health workers and police officials came under heavy stone pelting by an irate mob on Wednesday when they reached Nagphani in Moradabad, UP, to take away the brother of a deceased Covid-19 patient to a quarantine facility. Two doctors and four cops suffered serious injuries in the attack. Condemning the incident, UP chief minister Yogi Adityanath ordered action under the National Security Act (NSA) against those involved in the assault. The Covid-19 patient had died on Monday and his brother has developed fever and cold, classic coronavirus symptoms. Nagphani has, meanwhile, been "sealed" and declared a "Covid hotspot". Sources said rumours that some individuals would be picked up from the minority-populated area for testing and sent to quarantine centres "no less than detention camps" started it all. Defying lockdown norms, a mob of around 100 targeted the two ambulances and police vehicles that had come to Nagphani to take with them the Covid patient's brother. At least 25 people, including 10 women, were later arrested by police. Raids are on to nab the others. "When the family came out of their house on seeing a medical and police team, people there started throwing stones at us. The situation is under control now though,” SSP Amit Pathak, who rushed to the spot along with DM RK Singh, said. Pathak added that section 144 was violated and the men and women responsible for it will also be charged under Epidemic Diseases Act and Disaster Management Act. "Plus, action will be taken under the National Security Act. An FIR is being registered under relevant sections.” One of the ambulance drivers said a large crowd assembled as they reached the place. Under attack, some of the health workers had to hide in the narrow bylanes. “Two doctors and a few health workers were hurt. The doctors, I believe, have suffered major injuries,” he said, claiming that the people even tore the safety jackets of the medical team||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/docs-cops-injured-as-mob-targets-health-workers-in-moradabad/articleshow/75168690.cms||Pankul Sharma
April 16, 2020||Thiruvananthapuram||Youth forced to carry father in his arms: KSHRC seeks report||KOLLAM: The Kerala state human rights commission (KSHRC) has sought a report from the district police chief with regard to an incident in which a youth was forced to carry his ailing father on his shoulders back home from the Punalur Taluk Hospital.  Punalur police stopped a youth, Roymon, 30, of EFM Colony, Kulathupuzha, who was going to the taluk hospital in his autorickshaw to bring his father, George, 89, back home after he was discharged from the hospital. When he reached the hanging bridge, police stopped him citing that he didn’t possess the relevant documents of the vehicle. Though he said that he wanted to bring his aged father back home from the hospital, the police officers were unrelenting. The youth walked nearly a kilometre to reach the hospital and returned carrying his father on his shoulders, all under the scorching sun.  Though the policemen on the road saw the youth carrying his father on his shoulders, they did not show any leniency to them. According to the youth, the Punalur circle inspector asked for the vehicle’s documents and though he showed the documents they did not allow him to take the autorickshaw to the hospital.  However, the police version is that the youth did not have the affidavit stating that he was going to the hospital. Also, there were no hospital documents with him. When the incident attracted severe criticism, police came out with another justification that the town witnessed heavy traffic as several people breached lockdown restrictions, which forced the police to act tough. However, higher authorities have said that they would enquire about the incident. KSHRC has said that after receiving report from the district police chief they would consider the case at its next sitting to be held in Kollam.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/thiruvananthapuram/youth-forced-to-carry-father-in-his-arms-kshrc-seeks-report/articleshow/75167020.cms||---
April 16, 2020||Goa||Bombay HC adjourns plea seeking curbs on returning seamen||Panaji: The high court of Bombay at Goa adjourned to four weeks a petition seeking travel restrictions on seafarers after they return to Goa. Mukesh Chaganlal Patel, a “public spirited citizen” from Margao, has filed the petition seeking the court’s intervention to ensure travel restrictions are in place on getting back Goans who are in foreign countries, for the safety of existing people living in the state. The court on Wednesday adjourned the petition to four weeks after advocate general Devidas Pangam told the court that a similar petition concerning the rights of seafarers has been filed before the apex court, which has been adjourned by four weeks. “Depending on the outcome of the said petition, the present petition also stands over by four weeks,” Justice Nutan Sardessai stated. Additional solicitor general of India Pravin Faldessai told the high court that there are Indians stranded in other parts of the world as well and that the central government is looking at the larger issue. He added that hasty decisions cannot be taken in this regard and requested that the case be heard after four weeks. In his petition, Patel has sought comprehensive screening before boarding flights from abroad to ensure they are fit to travel. The government shouldn’t take this unplanned step of exposing Goa to the Covid-19 contagion, the petitioner said. “There are wide chances of susceptibility to Covid-19 while travelling from a foreign country, and getting these Goans back can be of high risk not only to Goans abroad but also to those residing here. Goa being a tiny state, a smallest mistake could lead to spread of the disease like wildfire which will be beyond the government’s control and could result to several deaths. The Goa government will be risking the lives of 15 lakh Goans by getting 8,000 people into Goa without any infrastructure and planning,” his letter states.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/hc-adjourns-plea-seeking-curbs-on-returning-seamen/articleshow/75169804.cms||Lisa Monteiro
April 16, 2020||Goa||Women’s groups in Goa step up, make masks in bulk||PANAJI: With hand-made masks gaining popularity, people have either started procuring it locally or making on their own. Many self-help-groups (SHGs), groups of women coming together to conduct a common activity, have taken up the initiative of making masks in a big way. They aren’t earning huge commission – at the most Rs 5 to Rs 6 per piece. But they are thankful as they have some work during the lockdown period. Few have even started making masks with the sole objective of donating it for the needy. Ashama Pagi from Poinguinim who heads Ashama Kala Kavshal Group, said she has received an order of making 3 lakh masks for Goa Handicrafts Rural and Small Scale Industries Development Corporation (GHRSSIDC). “We are a group of ten women engaged in this work. Though the earnings aren’t big, we have taken it up with a hope that this might open to us a door of opportunity in future,” said Ashama. With the lockdown in force, she said, she delivers the required material to those who have agreed to work. “I do the cloth cutting work and give cut pieces to women for stitching in my group,” she said. Ashama’s group has stitched about 5,000 masks as of today and her work has been halted temporarily owing to the unavailability of the thread. Suman Chopde from Ponda whose livelihood depends on tailoring said she had no choice but to stitch masks as she has been rendered jobless amid lockdown.“My husband is bed-ridden for the last ten years and my son is in Class XII. I’m the only earning member in the family,” she said. Though she has made 300 masks so far, she could sell only 100. She approached some pharmacists in her area but to no avail. “They want my GSTIN number. I’m completely helpless,” she said. With most pharmacies running out of masks and some are overcharging, people find it convenient to use hand-made masks. They not only cost less but can be reused after washing. The handmade masks are available in the price range of Rs 25-Rs 30. Lawyer Sphurti Kothare has started making masks out of boredom though she is not selling them. “I stitch my clothes, so I decided to stitch some colourful masks during the lockdown,” she said.Sphurti uses leftover material of salwar kameej to make masks. Sakshi Nagarsekar, a student, decided to pitch in to contribute to the relief work by making masks even as she had no idea of making them. “I also feel one can make or wear colourful masks as promoted by the Times of India through its #mask India campaign. It can be a fashion statement too as having a choice of colours would make wearing the mandatory piece popular among youth ,” she adds.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/womens-groups-step-up-make-masks-in-bulk/articleshow/75169799.cms||---
April 16, 2020||Bareilly||Ashes pile up at cremation ground as lockdown delays immersion||Bareilly: “That’s my mother right there,” says Avnish Jhingran, pointing to a yellow bag that holds her ashes. The name ‘Rajkumari’ is scribbled on it. At the City Cremation Ground in Bareilly, the bag is placed in a room lined with several other earthen pots or ‘asthi kalash', all waiting to be immersed in a holy river when the lockdown lifts.Travel curbs due to the ongoing lockdown and fear of infection mean many bereaved families are not able to complete the last step in the final rites of their loved ones — consign their ashes to a river. In Bareilly alone, nearly 200 families have deposited the ashes of the deceased with one of the oldest cremation ground in the city. Supervisor of City Cremation Ground Triloki Nath Sharma told TOI that since borders are sealed, most families who want to immerse ashes in rivers outside the state are waiting for the right time. Jhingran, who lost his mother to chronic asthma on April 6, said, “We have no option but to wait. We have to perform the rituals according to our faith. But right now it’s risky to travel, so we will wait until the lockdown is over and then immerse our mother’s ashes in Ganga in Haridwar.”Similarly, Vijay Kumar’s family is also awaiting the end of lockdown to consign his ashes to Falgu river in Bihar’s Gaya according to family tradition. Babli Yadav, his niece, told TOI, “We will not get a train or bus for Gaya, so we deposited his ashes here until the family can travel.”But it’s not just Bareilly where the lockdown has added to woes of those who have lost their dear ones. Reports of ashes piling up at crematoriums — as people are unable to complete post-cremation rituals — have come from other states like Punjab and Haryana as well. Superintendent of police (Bareilly) Ravindra Kumar said families are being advised to cremate the body but carry out immersion of ashes only later. “Traveling can put people at risk of contracting Covid-19. So we are advising against it.”Vijay Kumar Agarwal, secretary of the Hindu Social Service Trust which manages the cremation ground, said in case people don’t turn up to claim ashes of their near ones even after several months, they are consigned to rivers. “We do this twice a year,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/ashes-pile-up-at-cremation-ground-as-lockdown-delays-immersion/articleshow/75168710.cms||Priyangi Agarwal
April 16, 2020||Vadodara||Vadodara: Paan masala robber tests positive after arrest in Dabhoi||VADODARA: Had he not robbed a provision store owner out of desperation to get paan masala on Monday, Dabhoi’s Ayub Tai would not have been diagnosed of coronavirus so soon. With Tai’s report turning out to be positive, Dabhoi taluka in Vadodara district registered its first case of coronavirus. Tai and his accomplice Kuldeep Sharma had targeted provision store owner Mahesh Bariya near a railway crossing at Timbi village in Dabhoi taluka of Vadodara district. The duo had looted packets of paan masala worth Rs4,625 from Bariya along with his gold ring and fled. Bariya had then approached Dabhoi police with a complaint of robbery and given the duo’s bike registration number. Police said based on the registration number, Tai and Sharma were nabbed on Tuesday and sent to SSG Hospital for tests. “However, before arresting them their medical check-up and tests for coronavirus had to be conducted as per protocol,” said deputy superintendent of police H J Chaudhary. On Wednesday, Tai’s report turned out to be positive while Sharma tested negative. Tai has been admitted at the isolation ward at GMERS Medical College and Hospital in Gotri. “The patient has not revealed his travel history so it is not known how he got infected of the virus and police are trying to inquire about it,” said chief district health officer Dr Uday Tilawat. Meanwhile, district administration and Dabhoi police have turned Ram Tekri area in Dabhoi town where Tai was living into community containment area. “This area has 150 buildings and around 600 people live here. The health department has initiated door-to-door surveillance and if any person shows symptoms of coronavirus, their samples will be collected for tests,” said district collector Shalini Agrawal. Besides, Ram Tekri, seven other surrounding localities have also been declared as buffer zones. These areas have 330 buildings and around 1,650 people live here. Dabhoi police are trying to find out all those people who have come in contact with Tai.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/paan-masala-robber-tests-ve-after-arrest-in-dabhoi/articleshow/75166752.cms||---
April 16, 2020||Coimbatore||A lull in Covid-19 storm, no +ve cases in 2 days||Coimbatore: Three days after the district crossed 100 positive cases and discovered a new Covid-19 cluster in the city, there seems to be a let-up in the spread of contagion. The district didn’t report any positive case for the second consecutive day on Wednesday, even as the public health department heaved a sigh of relief as nearly 700 of the 1,800-odd people who were screened on Sunday tested negative for the virus. The remaining test results are yet to come. Dr G Ramesh Kumar, deputy director of public health, confirmed that the district hasn’t reported any new case since Monday, when it recorded seven fresh cases that comprised two doctors, a former MP’s personal assistant and a five-year-old child from Kinathukadavu. “Around 50 of the 100 people who were screened at the apartment on West Periyasamy Road have tested negative for the virus so far. The 40 cops from Thudiyalur police station have also tested negative and so are a few postgraduate students at the Coimbatore Medical College and Hospital (CMCH). The child’s mother remains asymptomatic and is most likely to test negative,” he said. While two more doctors at CMCH were isolated on Tuesday after they showed mild symptoms of the virus infection, they have also been tested negative. The official, however, admitted that the child’s case was worrying as the source of infection was not traceable. He said they have been working on to contain local transmission of the virus by screening the people who are living in the 5km radius of the child’s residence. “We are going door-to-door as part of the containment drive, testing everyone who has cold, cough or fever, because that would give us a clue on the source of infection and if there is any spread,” Kumar said. Speaking about the testing facilities in the district, Kumar said the samples (nearly 500) that were collected a day were split among the ESI Hospital, CMCH and Microlabs. Pointing out that some samples were also sent to Chennai for tests, the deputy director of public health said, “It takes more than 24 hours for test results to arrive from Chennai. Our labs used to announce results within five hours. But since the sample load is high, they now take around 18-24 hours to give us the results.” While the district has around 2,000-2,500 polymerase chain reaction (PCR) kits, the state government has allocated a quota of 500 to 1,000 kits a day, depending on the requirement.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/a-lull-in-covid-19-storm-no-ve-cases-in-2-days/articleshow/75169801.cms||---
April 16, 2020||Jaipur||Man killed over clanging plate: Jodhpur IG visits kin||Jaisalmer: A youth of Tanwar caste of Mandawa area of Pokhran sub-division in Jaislamer district had been thrashed to death in a clash over clanging plate on Janata Curfew day. On Tuesday, Jodhpur range IG Navjyoti Gogoi visited the native village of deceased Rewat Singh and assured the family members of impartial action. Large number of villagers and family members met IG Gogoi and demanded for fair action into the death. The villagers said that the family is poor and the deceased has three sons and a daughter. Former CM Vasundhara Raje has sent a financial assistance of Rs 5 lakh to the family. BJP state secretary K K Vishnoi, BJP state Yuva Morcha vice president Ayeedan Singh Bhati, BJP state vice president Gopal Singh Bhandla and others on behalf of Raje handed over the cheque of Rs 4 lakh and Rs 1 lakh cash to the family members on Tuesday. SP Kiran Kung said that Bhaniyana police on Tuesday arrested one more culprit Ikbaal. They had earlier arrested one accused. They have seized a motorcycle used by the accused. Investigation is on and the remaining culprits will be arrested soon, she added. Collector Namit Mehta said that assurance has been given to family for compensation of Rs 5 lakh from Rajasthan Jilla Vidhik Sangh district branches.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/man-killed-over-clanging-plate-jodhpur-ig-visits-kin/articleshow/75160898.cms||---
April 16, 2020||Ahmedabad||Ahmedabad cops get cafeteria on wheels||AHMEDABAD: After fumigation vans to disinfect cops, police have got a cafeteria on wheels for personnel on bandobust duty. Senior police officials said these mobile cafeterias will move about the walled city area and give cops on duty lemonade and jal jeera besides light snacks.  Special police commissioner, crime branch, Ajay Tomar said they have three such vans in service. He said that with summer setting in cops deployed in the walled city area which is under curfew are feeling the heat. “As all shops in the area are closed, the personnel have nothing to keep hydrated. We started operating three vans providing lemonade, jal jeera and light snacks so they can work properly,” said Tomar. Police officials said there are more than 2,000 cops in the areas under curfew. “We are planning to put more such vans in service,” said Tomar.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/after-sanitization-vans-cops-get-cafeteria-on-wheels/articleshow/75169809.cms||Sarfaraz Shaikh
April 16, 2020||Hubballi||Domestic violence calls to 181 helpline dip during lockdown||Hubballi: The Mahila Sahayavani (181 helpline) in Karnataka has reported a decrease in calls related to domestic violence during the Covid-19 lockdown. The trend, however, does not necessarily mean a fall in such cases. Many instances might have gone unreported since victims are ever in the close proximity of abusers due to the lockdown. According to officials of the women and child development department, the 181 toll-free helpline received 86 calls pertaining to domestic violence between March 23 and April 13 (22 days). There were 200 calls received in the 22 days prior to March 23. Some experts said self-isolating partners at home due to the lockdown led to decrease in abusive behaviour and violence against women. The male member generally abuses his wife in a drunken state, but such cases dropped due to the non-availability of liquor. However, Suvarna A T, supervisor of Mahila Sahayavani, said women might not get a free hand to call the helpline when the abuser is present at home. “Even during normal days, we receive complaint calls on behalf of the women in trouble. But due to the lockdown, women may have to restrict themselves at home. She may not get a chance to share her problems with family members and neighbours,” she added. D Roopa, IGP, railways, said that during the lockdown, it is quite difficult for women in distress to call the helpline and seek help. “So, many women may be not coming forward to file complaints of harassment, leading to decline in calls of abuse cases,” she informed. With 42 calls, Bengaluru reported the most number of domestic violence calls. There were seven such calls from Mandya district, six from Chikkaballapur, five from Tumakuru and four from Belagavi. Vijayapura, Dakshina Kannada, Dharwad and Ballari districts recorded two cases each. K A Dayanand, director, department of women and child development, said the staff at Mahila Sahayavani 181 have been working round-the-clock to address the problem of women after the lockdown was announced. Sources said the 181 helpline provided police assistance in 45 cases between March 23 and April 13. Workplace harassment The 181 helpline received two calls related to sexual harassment at workplace (one each from Bengaluru and Ballari) and three sexual violence (general) calls (two from Davanagere and one from Bengaluru) from March 23 to 31. Sexual violence (general) is meant for lovers, who complain about break up, or not getting calls from the lover, or lover not responding to calls and other issues. So far this month, there has been one sexual violence call received from Davanagere.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hubballi/domestic-violence-calls-to-181-helpline-dip-during-lockdown/articleshow/75164334.cms||J Abbas Mulla
April 16, 2020||Bareilly||15 Indian migrant labourers on their way home from Nepal on foot quarantined in Pilibhit||Pilibhit: As many as 15 migrant labourers of Indian origin on their way home on foot from Gularia village under Balauri police station in Nepal’s Kanchanpur district amid the lockdown were quarantined for 14 days after being caught at the Indo-Nepal border in Pilibhit district on Tuesday evening. Following the superintendent of police's order, the labourers were booked under section 188 (disobedience to order duly promulgated by a public servant) of the Indian Penal Code (IPC) at Madhotanda police station on Wednesday evening.Taking serious cognisance of the matter, district magistrate Vaibhav Shrivastav, SP Abhishek Dixit and commandant of 49th battalion of Sashastra Seema Bal (SSB) Ajay Kumar spoke with their Nepalese counterparts and told them to intensify vigil on the porous border.The SSB commandant said, “We are making all-out effort to keep the round-the-clock vigil on the 46-km-long border in the district. The labourers managed to enter the district due to laxity on the part of the forest force.”“I requested my Nepalese counterpart to intensify checking and patrolling on the border,” he said.the DM said, “I have written a letter to SSB’s 49th battalion DIG SN Singh Visht about the movement despite high alert. After all, the SSB is responsible for the security of the porous border.” The SP said police were extending their fullest cooperation to the SSB in carrying out joint patrolling and keeping tight vigil at its two outpost areas, Ramnagara post under Madhotanda police station and Kambojnagar post underHajara police station.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/15-indian-migrant-labourers-on-their-way-home-from-nepal-on-foot-quarantined-in-pilibhit/articleshow/75168745.cms||---
April 16, 2020||Bareilly||76-year-old man 1st Tablighi Jamaati to die of corona in UP||BAREILLY: A 76-year-old Tamil Nadu man, Mohammad Nuh, became the first Tablighi Jamaati to die due to Covid-19 in Uttar Pradesh on Tuesday night. This was the second Covid-19 death within 24 hours in Moradabad and 12th in UP. Mohammad Nuh was shifted from the neighbouring Sambhal district to a Moradabad facility where he was undergoing treatment. According to sources in the administration, Nuh had attended the Tablighi Jamaat congregation in New Delhi in mid-March. After participating in the Nizamuddin Markaz, Nuh went to Sambhal, where he and 10 other Jamaatis were found in Saraitareen locality under the jurisdiction of Hayatnagar police station. Of the 11 jamaatis found in Sambhal, eight have been tested positive for Covid-19. After his condition deteriorated, he was shifted to a facility in Moradabad on April 9 where he breathed his last late on Tuesday night. His test report, which had arrived on Monday, confirmed he was Covid-19 positive. This was the second such death since the first coronavirus casualty took place on Monday night, when a 49-year-old resident of Nawabpura locality succumbed to the virus. Meanwhile, 17 people (15 of them are Tablighi Jamaatis) have tested positive for Covid-19 in the district so far. Yamuna Prasad, superintendent of police of Sambal district, said that 11 Tablighi Jamaatis -- all hailing from Tamil Nadu -- had arrived on March 31 and were staying at Saraitareen locality. “All of them were taken to a quarantine centre and their samples were sent for testing at Aligarh and Lucknow labs. Eight of them tested positive for the virus. On Tuesday, one of them, Mohammad Nuh, was shifted to Moradabad after his health condition deteriorated. He died during treatment later in the day,” said Prasad. Chief medical officer of Moradabad said, “Bodies of Covid-19 infected persons are being disposed of according to the guidelines issued by the government.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/76-year-old-man-1st-tablighi-jamaati-to-die-of-corona-in-up/articleshow/75168737.cms||Pankul Sharma
April 16, 2020||Goa||High court disposes of plea against survey||PANAJI: The high court on Wednesday disposed of a letter petition raising safety issues over the ongoing door-to-door Covid-19 survey after advocate general Devidas Pangam told the court that the exercise has almost been completed and thus the petition had been rendered infructious. The petition came up before Justice Nutan Sardessai on Wednesday, the last day of the three-day survey. Dattatreya Naik, president of the all-Goa secondary school teachers’ association, had written a letter to the high court on April 9, raising concerns over the risk the door-to-door survey poses to 7,000 employees and their families. The petition sought a stay on the survey. The three-day survey began on Monday. Pangam also told the high court that another letter petition was filed in the Supreme Court, seeking a direction to the high court to look into the same matter. He added that the fate of that matter is not known yet. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/high-court-disposes-of-plea-against-survey/articleshow/75169812.cms||---
April 16, 2020||Coimbatore||Pushcart vendors make hay while coronavirus sends people indoors||Coimbatore: Business has never been dull for K Bhaskar ever since the lockdown came into force. In fact, he has been doing brisk sales, of late. And if you are wondering what works for him, that is his pushcart. At 11.30am on Wednesday, Bhaskar was spotted in front of a private apartment on East Periyasamy Road in RS Puram. Around his vegetable pushcart were at least four to five women and men, who were quickly picking up vegetables and filling their bags. Just as they were about to leave, another man was seen walking hurriedly towards the cart. Bhaskar admits there has been an increase in sales since the lockdown began. “My income has doubled to Rs 8,000 a day from Rs 4,000. Earlier, I used to work for 10 hours in RS Puram area. But today I am earning double the income from the same area in just five hours.” While nearly all other businesses are reporting zero or crashing revenues, the pushcart vegetable and fruit vendors have an entirely different story to say. With the state government instructing people to maintain physical distancing and not to venture out of their houses unnecessarily, they have suddenly found pushcart vendors “more convenient”. Janaki T, a resident of East Ramalingam Road, says, “They literally come to our doorsteps, so we don’t have to step out. This way, we are not near strangers in a closed air-conditioned space, which is scary. Since they come regularly, we don’t have to hoard and deal with spoilage. It also ensures fresh supply of vegetables and fruits.” Another factor that makes these pushcart vendors popular among the people is the easy access to them. They don’t have to wait in long queues like they do in front of branded outlets and return empty-handed. As a result, there is an influx of pushcarts on the streets, selling vegetables and fruits. Lakshmi Narayanasamy, a resident of Saibaba Colony, says, “I used to go to uzhavar sandhai, but with the number of Covid-19 cases increasing so rapidly in the district, I now prefer buying from these carts even if it costs me Rs 100 more a week. All these disinfecting and having a shower immediately after returning from market are so stressful. It’s like going to war.” Gnanaprakash, who sells fruits on his bike and goes to apartments and gated communities on request, says the business has been so good since the lockdown that he has convinced two of his friends to join him last week. “We sell grapes, oranges, apples and guava. We buy it from the market near Karpagoundanur and sell it to people at the gate of their apartments,” says the man, who travels all the way from Narasimanaickenpalayam to Gandhipark to sell fruits. Most vegetable vendors like Bhaskar buy their stock from the Anna wholesale market on Mettupalayam Road. Some vendors, however, buy directly from farmers, relieving the agriculture community in the process. T Palanisamy, a farmer from Periyanaickenpalayam, says, “While I find it safer to sell to a wholesaler, my usual client has not been picking up my calls. One person approached me last week and agreed to buy 50kg each of tomato, brinjal and lady’s finger. I happily agreed.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/pushcart-vendors-make-hay-while-coronavirus-sends-people-indoors/articleshow/75169806.cms||---
April 16, 2020||Jaipur||PM appreciates 8-yr-old Jodhpur girl’s contribution||Jodhpur: It was a moment of pride for Pooja Bishnoi, a young athlete from Gudha Bishnoian village in Jodhpur, when a small contribution to the Covid-19 fund on her birthday was acknowledged and appreciated by Prime Minister Narendra Modi. Eight-year-old Pooja, who had shot to fame as the only Asian girl with six-pack abs, is currently being supported by Virat Kohli Foundation and is training to realise her dreams with coach Sarvan Bishnoi, her maternal uncle. “It was a call from within that I must contribute to the nation’s efforts in dealing with the pandemic. So whatever small amount I could manage, I gave it,” said Pooja. She said that this was the best birthday celebration for her that she could give something to the country, which has given me so much support and recognition. “But I felt more happy and recognised when Modiji acknowledged my contribution terming it to be a remarkable gesture on his Twitter handle,” she said. Pooja has run 3 km in 12.50 minutes which is Under-10 world record and next 10 km in 48 minutes and now preparing with a dream of becoming an Olympic champion. “It is my wish to represent India in 2024 Olympics and earn a gold medal for my country,” said Pooja. But for now, her ardent wish is that the country successfully battles with the threat and a sincere compliance of the lockdown protocol by people.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/pm-appreciates-8-yr-old-jodhpur-girls-contribution/articleshow/75160900.cms||Ajay Parmar
April 16, 2020||Delhi||Delhi: After back-to-back jitters, experts assure a big quake not imminent||NEW DELHI: With two earthquakes striking the capital less than 24 hours apart and with both centred in east Delhi, people are quite worried. Seismologists, however, assured that these did not indicate an imminent quake and asserted that Delhi was an unlikely epicentre of a temblor. Other experts brought in a note of relief by pointing out that the newer buildings and those adhering to seismic zone IV regulations can withstand convulsions in the 6-6.6 magnitude range, while the older constructions can bear 5-5.5 Richter shocks. J L Gautam, head (operations), National Centre for Seismology, told TOI that the two earthquakes in Delhi did not appear to be the result of fault-line pressures. “For these local and low-magnitude earthquakes, there needn’t be a fault line,” Gautam explained. “Small adjustments take place underneath the surface from time to time and this can occasionally result in tremors. Larger earthquakes tend to occur along the fault lines.” Rather than Delhi, it is the Himalayan belt that is at risk. “The range stretching from Hindukush to Arunachal Pradesh is where major earthquakes tend to occur. The mountains are, however, 200-250 kilometres away from Delhi and it is unlikely Delhi can be the epicentre,” said Gautam. The Bureau of Indian Standards has classified India into four seismic groups, zone II being low intensity and zone V being very severe intensity. Delhi falls in zone IV (severe) under this categorization, with three fault lines running through the area: Sohna, Mathura and Delhi-Moradabad fault lines. People’s anxiety is also because there have been scientific warnings of a high-intensity earthquake in the Himalayas in the ‘near future’. In 2018, a study headed by seismologist C P Rajendra of Jawaharlal Nehru Centre for Advanced Scientific Research, Bengaluru, noted, after studying past data, that a temblor of magnitude 8.5 or higher was overdue. The study found a massive earthquake had occurred between 1315 and 1440, with the central Himalayan region staying seismically quiet since. ‘Enormous strain’ had built up in the geological region in this period, the study said. A Union ministry of earth sciences study puts locations on the Yamuna floodplain at highest risk in the event of an earthquake. Also at threat are the highly populated residential colonies of east Delhi, Lutyens’ Delhi, Sarita Vihar, Paschim Vihar, Wazirabad, Karol Bagh and Janakpuri. Relatively safer areas, such as JNU, AIIMS, Chhatarpur, Naraina and Vasant Kunj, might be able to withstand a major jolt, the study observed. Delhi attempted retrofitting of old buildings in 2008 and in 2015 after the Nepal quake, strengthening the Delhi Secretariat, Delhi Police and PWD headquarters, Ludlow Castle School, Vikas Bhawan and Guru Tegh Bahadur Hospital. But as Gautam pointed out, “We have seen buildings collapse recently even without an earthquake occurring.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/after-back-to-back-jitters-experts-assure-a-big-quake-not-imminent/articleshow/75169829.cms||Jasjeev Gandhiok
April 16, 2020||Ahmedabad||Three more cases lodged against Sura jamaatis: DGP||Ahmedabad: Three more cases against ‘Sura’ jamaat members were registered in Gandhinagar and Mehsana on Wednesday said DGP Shivanand Jha. Jha said two from Gandhinagar and three from Mehsana had gone to Bhusaval in Maharashtra to attend a Tabligh congregation before the lockdown and and had returned on Tuesday. The DGP said they were sent for medical examination. Two cases were registered in Gandhinagar and one in Mehsana. “One case was earlier registered in Mehsana. Hence in total four cases have been registered until now in this matter. Earlier, 17 such cases were registered in the city against members of the Sura Tabligh Jamaat,” said DGP Jha. Jha said talks are on with migrant labourers with the help of local leaders. Speaking about the curfew in the Walled City, Jha said that tight bandbodust has been made in the city and a hawk’s eye is being kept on social media and hate messages.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/three-more-cases-lodged-against-sura-jamaatis-dgp/articleshow/75169827.cms||---
April 16, 2020||Ahmedabad||Gujarat: Industry to resume work on April 20||GANDHINAGAR: Close to a month since the lockdown was clamped across the country, industrial activity will resume in Gujarat from April 20. Adhering to GOI guidelines, chief minister Vijay Rupani on Thursday decided to relax the lockdown in select areas of the state with regard to industrial activity. Secretary to the CM, Ashwani Kumar, said that the relaxation will not be applicable in areas declared as Covid hotspots or containment zones in different cities of Gujarat. “Commercial activities and businesses can start functioning from April 20, with stringent precautions that have been listed out by the Union government,” the official said. A committee will be formed at the district level under the leadership of district collector who will oversee the implementation of the relaxation to industries and commercial activities in his or her jurisdiction. Besides, a seven-member committee comprising the regional head of the concerned GIDC, officer from the department of labour and employment, chief district health officer, factory inspector, a deputy municipal commissioner in areas governed by municipal corporation, and an officer from district industrial centre will be formed to issue permissions as per the guidelines of government of India for resuming industrial and commercial operations from April 20. The standard guidelines for industries include conducting thermal screening of the people at the establishment, compulsory mask, adequate facilities for sanitization and social distancing, staggered lunch time and staggered entry and exit time and crowd management. The owners and the management of the organization will have to ensure that no person from identified clusters or quarantined areas joins the work. Adequate stay and lodging arrangements for the workers and safe transport for pick-up and drop will have to be arranged by the units concerned. Violation of any of the standard operating procedures will lead to suspension of approval for operations and the particular unit will be forced to close. The official added that women workers will not be asked to work from 7pm to 6am at industrial units which will be granted permission to function. Works related to MNREGA will also commence from April 20 and priority will be given to irrigation and water conservation works. Self-employed persons such as electricians, plumbers, carpenters, motor mechanics and the like will also be allowed to operate provided they use face masks, sanitizers and observe social distancing, Kumar added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/industry-to-resume-work-on-april-20/articleshow/75189143.cms||---
April 16, 2020||Jaipur||Transgenders should not be deprived of govt benefits: HC||Jaipur: The high court on Wednesday ordered that transgenders should not be denied any benefits of government schemes in the absence of identity cards, while issuing notice to the state government seeking reply within four weeks. The division bench of chief justice Indrajit Mahanty and Satish Kumar Sharma issued the order on a PIL by lawyer Shalini Sheoran. The court directed that the Supreme Court guidelines had to be complied with in its letter and spirit especially for health services. The petitioner said a large number of persons not in the mainstream, including transgenders, acid attack survivors, specially abled, HIV/AIDS positives, sex workers, have been adversely affected by the imposition of lockdown on account of the Covid-19 pandemic. The petition pointed out that despite the Supreme Court ruling, they have not been given the benefits till date as persons with disability nor certificates have been issued to that extent for the purpose of availing benefits of social welfare schemes. Similarly, the transgenders have not been declared socially and economically backward, said the petitioner.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/transgenders-should-not-be-deprived-of-govt-benefits-hc/articleshow/75169818.cms||---
April 16, 2020||Goa||Goa: Families of sailors go on strike, held and later released||PANAJI: Fourteen persons, including family members of Goan seafarers stranded worldwide, were arrested on Wednesday for going on a hunger strike outside the chief minister’s official residence in Panaji in violation of curfew orders. The protesters, who were demanding that the 8,000 Goan seafarers be brought back, were later released on bail. The protest was initiated by two seafarers’ wives, who were later joined by more persons. The family members held placards with messages: 'Our government is dead. Cannot bring seafarers back' and 'Government is just fooling us'. Chief minister Pramod Sawant met with the protesters. After their discussion with Sawant, Gina Pereira, wife of a seafarer, told reporters, “We asked the CM about his final decision on seafarers. He asked us to wait till the day after tomorrow. He also said that state government has forwarded everything, but the final decision is with the central government.” Pereira said when she asked why the Prime Minister was not taking any action, Sawant told them that “it is not only the issue of our state” and that “chief ministers of other states have also requested the PM”. He also told them that the issue was not limited to seafarers, but included Goans working abroad. “The CM said he is not guaranteeing us anything. He said he would let us know by Thursday evening, which I am not happy with. Tell the PM to speak to us directly if the decision is with him,” she said. Stating that Sawant had requested them to call off the strike, Pereira said they would continue protesting till the news reached the Prime Minister. “Let the CM tell the PM that we have gone on strike,” she said. As they were not ready to call off the strike despite several requests, Panaji police detained them and brought them to the police station. Panaji police inspector Sudesh Naik told TOI that they arrested 14 persons, including two men, and later released on bail. Pereira said, “This is not the end. I don’t know what would be the next step, I am not saying anything right now, but it will be worse. Today I have come, tomorrow entire Goa will come out if the chief minister does not decide. I don’t know then who will stop them and who will arrest them.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/families-of-sailors-go-on-strike-held-and-later-released/articleshow/75169820.cms||---
April 16, 2020||Goa||Goa CM: Four lakh households covered, report will be compiled soon||PANAJI: Chief minister Pramod Sawant on Wednesday said that the three-day community survey to identify persons with Covid-19 has concluded by covering over 4 lakh households across the state, and final report would be compiled in the next two days. Sawant said except a few in the industrial estates, all households in the state have been covered. He said the surveyors have reached out to 4,39,666 households during the survey.“I will get the final report in the next two days, after which we will know how many persons need to go for coronavirus test,” he said. He had said that it would take one or two more days to cover households living in labour colonies across industrial estates as it is an unorganised area. On Monday, the state government had commenced its three-day, door-to-door community survey. The chief minister had said that based on it, the government would “be able to declare Goa as a safe zone vis-à-vis Covid-19”. Around 7,000 trained government employees, teachers of government and government-aided schools, booth-level officers and ANM staff were involved in house-to-house survey, asking six questions prepared by the health department. Survey was conducted across 1,560 polling booths, and this survey, was on the lines of the one carried out in Rajasthan’s Bhilwara district.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/cm-4l-households-covered-report-will-be-compiled-soon/articleshow/75169830.cms||---
April 16, 2020||Coimbatore||Erode reports 6 new positive cases as 13 get discharged from hospital||Erode: The district reported six new cases of Covid-19 on Wednesday even as 13 patients, who had tested positive earlier, were discharged from the IRT government hospital in Perundurai here after 28 days of treatment. While two of the new positive cases are attendees of Tablighi Jamaat conference in New Delhi, the remaining four are their family members. All the six have been admitted to the IRT government hospital. Salem also reported three new cases on Wednesday, taking the total number of novel coronavirus patients in the district to 22 from the earlier 19. With this, the district that was in ‘orange’ zone is moving towards ‘red’ zone. Erode collector C Kathiravan said the 13 discharged patients have been advised to remain in home quarantine for another two weeks. “Doctors and health department officials will check them daily.” He said the 13 were among the 64 Covid-19 positive patients, who were getting treatment at the IRT government hospital, which now has a total of 57 positive cases, including the six fresh cases that were reported on Wednesday. “There are another 52 people in the hospital with Covid-19 symptoms,” the collector said. All the 13 were given a warm send-off by Kathiravan, district superintendent of police S Sakthi Ganesan and other officials. Pointing out that 1.27 lakh people were in home quarantine in the district, Kathiravan said, “Of them, 66 have been found sick and we have collected samples from them for testing.” Namakkal district, which has 45 covid-19 cases, did not report any new case on Wednesday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/erode-reports-6-new-positive-cases-as-13-get-discharged-from-hospital/articleshow/75169821.cms||---
April 16, 2020||India||I-T dept issues 10 lakh refunds worth Rs 4,250cr in just 1 week||NEW DELHI: The income tax department has issued over 10 lakh refunds worth Rs 4,250 crore in the last one week after the government's April 8 decision to issue all refunds up to Rs 5 lakh.  The central board of direct taxes (CBDT) on Wednesday said it has already issued over 10.2 lakh refunds totalling around Rs 4,250 crore as on April 14. "These refunds are over and above the 2.50 crore refunds already issued in FY 19-20 till March 31st totalling to Rs 1.84 lakh crore," CBDT said . About 1.75 lakh more refunds are in the process of issuance in this week, the CBDT said, adding that these refunds would get credited directly to the taxpayer bank account in 5-7 business days. The income tax is, however, awaiting e-mail responses from around 1.74 lakh cases regarding reconciliation with their outstanding tax demand for which a reminder e-mail has been sent asking them to respond within seven days.  "It may be noted that these reminder e-mails from I-T department are in fact for the benefit of taxpayers as it seeks them to confirm their outstanding demand, their bank accounts and reconciliation of defect/mismatch prior to issue of refund," CBDT said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/i-t-dept-issues-10-lakh-refunds-worth-rs-4250cr-in-just-1-week/articleshow/75171345.cms||---
April 16, 2020||Coimbatore||Hosp denies Covid-19 positive man left isolation||Coimbatore: The private hospital where a 61-year-old man who tested positive for Covid-19 is in isolation has clarified that he has not left the hospital as alleged in certain media reports.The Coimbatore man had returned from New Delhi on March 23 and samples were collected from him on April 11. He tested positive on April 13 when the results came and was admitted in the isolation ward of PSG Institute of Medical Sciences and Research. Forty policemen attached to Thudiyalur police station were also screened for Covid-19 since the man had visited the station after his return from Delhi. A Murali, professor of medicine and specialist, infectious diseases of PSG hospitals, issued a certificate stating that the second throat swab RTPCR was negative. This was issued on the request of the man’s son, the hospital said.``Yet, the patient is retained in the hospital. He has not left and nor would he be allowed to go based on the negative result,’’ the hospital said. The negative result does not invalidate the earlier positive result of the test done at the ESI. Further tests were planned.TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/hosp-denies-covid-19-positive-man-left-isolation/articleshow/75169837.cms||---
April 16, 2020||Goa||Goa government should have shown protesters empathy: Opposition||PANAJI/QUEPEM: The opposition on Wednesday condemned the police’s decision to detain family members of a few Goan seafarers for protesting outside the chief minister’s residence earlier in the day. Opposition leader Digambar Kamat and former deputy chief minister Vijai Sardesai said the authorities should have shown empathy towards the protesters instead. “The arrest of Gina Pereira is shocking and condemnable. Hitherto, the chief minister has responded to the genuine anxiety of seafarers’ families with inaction, and now, with this insensitive act,” Sardesai said. Kamat said that instead of detaining kin who were expressing concern for their loved ones, the state government had a duty to give the family members courage during “testing times”. “I have written to the Prime Minister as there are 21,000 Indians on ships. I have asked him to give the issue some attention and bring them back. I also plead with the chief minister to take up this issue with the prime minister and give these seafarers relief,” said Kamat. AAP said the issue was taken up by its MP Sanjay Singh with the shipping minister, Mansukh Mandaviya, who informed him that the government was “actively” working to bring the seafarers safely home. Meanwhile, a group of Quepem residents, from where many seafarers hail, has threatened to go on a hunger strike outside the chief minister’s residence if the government failed to draw up a timebound plan to repatriate Goan sailors stranded on passenger and cargo ships across the world. Protesting the state’s proposal to quarantine returning seamen in Mumbai, and at paid quarantine facilities, the sailors’ families said they would assemble 300 people for the protest. “All other nations, particularly the Philippines and Indonesia, have already rescued their seafarers,” said Monica D’Cunha, a Quepem resident. She demanded that seafarers be directly brought to Goa and quarantined instead of routing them through the “danger zone” of Mumbai.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/govt-should-have-shown-protesters-empathy-oppn/articleshow/75169835.cms||---
April 16, 2020||Ahmedabad||Govt allows 12-hour shifts||Gandhinagar: In view of the nationwide lockdown due to the Covid-19 pandemic, the state labour and employment department has allowed certain relaxations to factories, including increasing shift hours from the existing eight to 12. In a notification dated April 13, the labour and employment department said that factories registered under the Factories Act, 1948 are being exempted from various provisions of the act that are related to working hours till July 19. “We have tried to achieve a balance between the needs of industries and welfare of workers. According to the notification, we have allowed industries to extend the shift time from eight hours to 12 hours. The relaxation will be available to factories that have been allowed to resume operations by the Union ministry of home affairs from April 20. These concessions will be available to other factories as and when they are allowed to open,” said Vipul Mittra, additional chief secretary, labour and employment department. TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/govt-allows-12-hour-shifts/articleshow/75189142.cms||---
April 16, 2020||Jaipur||CCTVs help village monitor lockdown||Ajmer: Dantra is the first village in Ajmer district where CCTV cameras are being used to monitor the lockdown. Dantra is a village in Pisanghan block of the district. Eight CCTVs cameras were installed last year to keep a watch over the village with 6,000 residents. As Dantra village is situated on national highway, there were regular incidents of thefts or robberies. But last year, the former sarpanch installed CCTV cameras on every road leading to village as well as in the centre of the village. “Around 85 people are home quarantined in the village and they are being monitored through CCTV cameras,” said the gram panch. Sarpanch Ranjeet said that people from the panchayat have been deputed for eight hours to monitor CCTV cameras. They make daily reports of monitoring, “If we find anyone roaming without reason, people from the control room go and counsel him/her and send them home,” said gram panch. People from outside the village or in the village are not allowed to move around and the entry points are sealed. “Even grocery vans coming to the village are checked and whereabouts of drivers are noted in a register,” added villagers. Since this is the time for harvest, those who want to go to their fields need to seek permission from the control room.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/cctvs-help-village-monitor-lockdown/articleshow/75160894.cms||---
April 16, 2020||Ahmedabad||Gujarat government borrowed Rs 2,100 crore in April first week||GANDHINAGAR: For the first time in several years, the state government has had to borrow money from financial institutions, as it has run out of funds due to the Covid-19 outbreak. The Gujarat government borrowed a sum of Rs 2,100 crore at 7.5% per annum interest in the first week of April. With the lockdown having been extended to May 3, the state government is expected to further borrow from banks to pay salaries and pensions of employees and also spend funds on various relief measures that are being implemented, because of the pandemic outbreak. However, the government will get some relief after April 20, as some industries are expected to be allowed to resume commercial activities. A key government source said, “Due to non-realization of revenues from various sources in the month of March, the government had to borrow Rs 2,100 crore at a higher interest rate of 7.5%, as many other states are also competing to get funds because of the lockdown.” The source added, “Fortunately, the Gujarat government received around Rs1,600 crore of GST compensation, so we did not require to borrow more money for funding the payment of various relief measures taken by the government. However, the government will need to borrow substantially to pay salaries and pension by the month end.” Every month, the state government requires a sum of around Rs 3,150 crore to pay salaries to its employees numbering around five lakh. In addition, the government requires a sum of Rs 1,500 crore to pay pensions by the end of every month. “By the end of the current month, the state government will have to borrow between Rs 4,650 crore and Rs 5,000 crore to pay salaries, pensions and for other routine expenses. Meanwhile, the government is looking at other ways to generate revenues,” the source said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/state-borrowed-rs-2100-cr-in-april-1st-week/articleshow/75169846.cms||Kapil Dave
April 16, 2020||Goa||Octogenarians in Goa appeal for help||SALIGAO: Had it not been for the national lockdown, Salestiano Fernandes and his wife would have been in Mumbai. Instead the 84-year-old is stuck in Goa with no inkling when they could get home. It’s not been easy for them, along with one of their friend, aged 74, who landed here on March 10 and were staying at their house in Sangolda. Originally scheduled to return to Mumbai on March 24, the octogenarians have been stuck all by themselves with little help forthcoming. The extension of the national lockdown has compounded miseries and they have now appealed for help. “Most senior citizens have health related problems. They have to be on a special diet and during times like these, extra care is needed,” said Salestiano. When the state announced that its borders would be closed, the senior citizens could not get food for some days. They have now started cooking themselves for survival while some others have also provided help. “Someone should spare a thought for us, look after us with at least provisions being made for food. If we get sick, whom are we supposed to contact in case of an emergency?,” said Salestiano.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/octogenarians-appeal-for-help/articleshow/75169844.cms||---
April 16, 2020||Jaipur||Labourers on the move dangerous to law & order: Min||JAISALMER: Expressing concern over the continuous movement of labourers, state’s minister of minority affairs Saleh Mohammad on Wednesday said that this could prove to be dangerous to law & order. He appealed to the PM and the CM to take an immediate decision on these migrant labourers. On the other hand, district administration has made boarding and lodging arrangements for the labourers who were walking to their states, by persuading them to stop. The district administration has sent a truck full of edible items to these labourers at Ramdeora. Minister Saleh Mohammad said that he has visited many canal areas and since the labourers have completed harvesting the crops and they want to go back, but there is no arrangement for it, therefore they are going on foot. Their situation is very pathetic and they are living under the sky and are not happy with the arrangements. It is getting very difficult to control them. The district administration is making efforts to persuade these labourers who are walking towards their homes with children and luggage, but they are not ready to listen. He said he visited Sutharwala, Bharewala etc. and found that without informing the administration, these labourers are walking towards their homes. The minister also tried to persuade many but they did not listen and continued walking home. He expressed his concern that the way they are on the roads, will prove very dangerous. Jaisalmer collector Namit Mehta sent trucks containing food items to Pokhran and Ramdeora on Wednesday. He said that food is being provided to migrant labourers at the shelters at both places. He accepted that some labourers are left out, but efforts are being made to stop them where they are. He said schools have been opened to accommodate them and food is being provided to them. Jaisalmer SP Kiran Kang said they are doing their best to stop the migrant labourers from the district. Mohangarh police caught one turbo truck carrying 70 labourers who were hiding in the truck, at Sutharwala Mandi going to Suratgarh. Driver Jasvinder Singh and cleaner Vikal Ram were arrested under Sections 151, 188, 269, 270.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/labourers-on-the-move-dangerous-to-law-order-min/articleshow/75169852.cms||---
April 16, 2020||Ahmedabad||‘Pay wages for lockdown 2.0 too’||Gandhinagar: With the Covid-19 lockdown extended by Union and state governments up to May 3, the state labour and employment department extended the validity of the earlier notification under Section 34 of the Disaster Management Act, 2005, regarding mandatory payment of wages to cover the period up to May 3. Anyone violating the notification shall be liable for imprisonment up to one year or fine or both. A government statement said the directions will be applicable to all factories registered under the Factories Act, as well as all shops and establishments and all households. It covers all workers with contractors and all in formal or informal sector workers. Vipul Mittra additional chief secretary, labour and employment, said the direction was issued to ensure timely payment of wages to workers. He added that following the cabinet decision, he has asked all collectors to extend the existing notification and activate the helpline to enforce payment of wages. TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/pay-wages-for-lockdown-2-0-too/articleshow/75189140.cms||---
April 16, 2020||Chennai||Chennai: Two die; cases dip below 40 for 2nd day in a row||CHENNAI: Two people died of Covid-19 in Chennai hospitals and 38 more were tested positive for the viral infection on Wednesday, taking the total positive cases in the state to 1,242 and the death toll to 14. Since March 31, this is the second consecutive day the state has reported less than 40 cases despite testing more number of people, said health minister C Vijaya Baskar. On Wednesday, the state tested 2,739 samples taking the total number of individuals tested to 17,835. “We are seeing fewer positive cases despite conducting more tests. But we are still cautious and continuing with all the precautionary measures,” he said. The minister, who is addressing the press conference after nearly two weeks, said the state has managed to keep the mortality rate between 0.9% and 1.1%. “Our recovery rates are also climbing,” he said. The biggest reason for death in TN fatalities is the low oxygen level, he said. “More than 80% of people remain asymptomatic throughout their active phase. Among those who show symptoms, deterioration happens rapidly,” he said. Among the 1,110 active patients, nine are in critical condition. Covid: 118 discharged till nowOn Wednesday, 37 people were discharged from various hospitals in the state, including an 83-year-old from Rajiv Gandhi Government General Hospital and two of her kin, taking the total number of people discharged so far to 118. A 47-year-old patient admitted to the Stanley Medical College Hospital with severe acute respiratory infection died of Covid and another 59-year-old died at the Apollo Hospitals in Vanagaram. “He was the only person with severe acute respiratory infection to have turned positive,” the minister said. Among those who tested positive on Wednesday was a postgraduate student of the Madras Medical College. The total number of doctors infected in TN now stands at 12. Three other people had contact history and 34 others were from the Tablighi Jamaat cluster, the health minister said. The positive cases from the cluster in TN is 1,113. The state has 26 labs including 16 in the government sector. While each state lab can test 230 samples a day, private labs can test up to 100. We have the capacity to test 5,320 samples a day, he said. Intensive containment activity is being undertaken at 558 containment zones, he said. The state has adequate number of hospital beds, ventilators and PPE kits. “We have placed orders for these and also allowed manufacture of the goods within the state. Today, we received 40,000 testing kits from the Tata Group,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/2-die-cases-dip-below-40-for-2nd-day-in-a-row/articleshow/75169851.cms||---
April 16, 2020||Pune||Realtors urge Maharashtra govt to pay workers from labour cess||PUNE: Realty majors want the government to make use of the Rs52,000 crore labour cess to pay the stranded workers. The realtors said while they were taking care of the workers’ needs, it would become difficult to pay their full wages with the slowing real estate market. Last month, the labour ministry had said around Rs52,000 crore was available, which could be distributed to Rs3.5 crore registered workers. However, the states are yet to act on the advisory. Under the Building and Other Construction Workers Welfare Cess Act, 1996, all developers are required to pay 1-2% of the total construction cost of the project for all approved constructions for the welfare of workers. “This amount is lying idle. We have requested the government to allow restarting of the work at sites as the workers are sitting idle and need to be engaged. We are ready to take care of their food and healthcare needs,” Atul Chordia, the director of Panchshil Group, said. Even other developers are taking care of the food and ration needs of their workers for now. But, some of them said the same would be deducted from their monthly wages even if they don’t intend on cutting the total amount payable. Top developers said they could pay their workers for around two months, but the same might not be possible for the small developers and contractors.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/realtors-urge-govt-to-pay-workers-from-labour-cess/articleshow/75169843.cms||Satyanarayan Iyer
April 16, 2020||Bengaluru||When BBMP gave Attiiuppe the fright||Bengaluru: The BBMP’s list of Covid-19 hotspots in Bengaluru city released on Tuesday sparked panic in Attiguppe ward in west Benglauru. Though the ward has not reported a single case of infection, it was on the list. S Raju, Attiguppe corporator, was flooded with over 100 calls from constituents, who wanted to know who the positive patient was and what risk they had of contracting the infection. Raju was at a loss since he knew not a single Covid-19 case had been reported from the ward. “My people were not only worried about the risks they faced, but also feared the ward would be sealed off,” he told TOI. Raju immediately checked with the zone’s joint commissioner Veerabhadra Swami and was told Attiguppe’s inclusion in the list was a “clerical error” and officials had meant to include Chamarajpet instead, where a Covid-19 patient had died on Monday. "There was a technical error in the war room and we are rectifying it," said BH Anil Kumar, BBMP commissioner. Meanwhile, Nazima Khanam, corporator of KR Market ward, and family members have been put in quarantine as she had visited the Chamarajpet patient.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/when-bbmp-gave-attiiuppe-the-fright/articleshow/75169319.cms||Nithya Mandyam
April 16, 2020||Pune||Pune: Cops seize gutka amounting to Rs 22 lakh||PUNE: The Pune Rural police intercepted a truck headed for Mumbai at Patas toll plaza, around 68km from the city, early on Wednesday and seized gutka worth Rs22.27 lakh. The police team, led by inspector Chandrasekhar Yadav, arrested the driver for smuggling the gutka from Telangana by hiding it behind bags of biscuit packets.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/cops-seize-gutka-amounting-to-rs-22l/articleshow/75169855.cms||---
April 16, 2020||Ahmedabad||Gujarat CM Vijay Rupani to stay home for a week at least||GANDHINAGAR: Even though two eminent doctors, Dr R K Patel and Dr Atul Patel have declared the CM to be in good health, CM Vijay Rupani has decided to stay in his residence for a week, not to meet visitors, and oversee the administration through video-conferencing, video calls, phone calls and the like. “The chief minister is fine and all his parameters are normal,” said secretary to CM, Ashwani Kumar, on Wednesday. The official added that no visitor will be allowed at the CM’s residence for one week. Congress MLA Imran Khedawala, who had met Rupani along with other party legislators at the chief minister’s official residence in Gandhinagar on Tuesday morning, tested positive for Covid-19 in the evening. He has been admitted to the SVP hospital, a designated Covid-19 hospital. Officials said Khedawala should have stayed at home after giving his sample for Covid-19 testing, but he had chosen to meet several people, including the CM even as his test result was awaited. Khedawala was however seated about eight metres away from the CM in the meeting. Besides Khedawala, two other Congress MLAs from the city — Gyasuddin Shaikh and Shailesh Parmar — were also present in the meeting. Rupani on Wednesday called Khedawala, who has been hospitalized and inquired about his health.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/cm-to-stay-home-for-a-week-at-least/articleshow/75169935.cms||---
April 16, 2020||Goa||Rapid testing facility begins at Mapusa hospital||SALIGAO: After receiving approval from the Indian Council of Medical Research, a ‘rapid testing’ facility for Covid-19 has commenced at the North Goa district hospital at Mapusa. This is expected to enhance the testing capacity of the health department. Two machines have been installed at the hospital, while testing of samples began from Monday. Medical superintendent Dr Mohandas Pednekar said a special laboratory was set up at the hospital premises for which a ‘biological safety cabinet’ was procured. He also said that the device was validated by a team under senior pathologist Dr Varsha Munj, who along with laboratory technicians and two microbiologists will conduct tests. “At a time, four samples can be taken up for testing, and around 80 samples are expected to be tested on a daily basis,” said Pednekar. However, in case a sample tests positive, a confirmatory test needs to be conducted at Goa Medical College and Hospital (GMC), Bambolim. It may be recalled that on April 6, health minister Vishwajit Rane had announced that the state government would collaborate with a Goa-based company and five PCR systems would be procured and installed at GMC, sub-district hospital at Ponda and North Goa district hospital, Mapusa.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/rapid-testing-facility-begins-at-mapusahospital/articleshow/75169850.cms||---
April 16, 2020||Surat||Lockdown: April fuel sales in Gujarat set to fall by 85%||AHMEDABAD: With restrictions on vehicle movements, petrol and diesel sales have unsurprisingly fallen across the state. According to estimates by the Federation of Gujarat State Petroleum Dealers’ Associations (FGSPDA), petrol and diesel sales fell by 85% drop in Gujarat in April. Petroleum dealers are staring at massively lower revenue due owing to the lockdown. According to FGSPDA estimates, usually, 23 crore litres of petrol and 55 crore litres of diesel is sold in the state every month. “With restrictions on vehicle movements since the day the ‘janata curfew’ was imposed, there was barely any business for 10-11 days in March and sales declined by 30%. The entire month of April will be under the lockdown and therefore, a decline of at least 85% decline is expected,” said Arvind Thakkar, president, FGSPDA. Currently, transport vehicles are almost the only ones moving but due to the manpower crisis, less than 5% of transport vehicles are currently plying the roads in Gujarat and thus, fuel sales, particularly that of diesel has drastically come down. Industry estimates show that diesel sales are driven by commercial vehicles. For the first fortnight of April, 1.5 crore litres of petrol and 4.1 crore litres of diesel were sold. Several dealers have retailed less than 10% of normal sales. Dealers are raising concerns about the health of their businesses. “There has been a greater than 90% decline in sales due to the restrictions. Our overheads including paying staffers, electricity bills and other charges remain the same while sales are massively down, thus putting a question mark on the business. We are currently operating with 50% staff because there is less work but those who are working are at risk despite all precautions and we thus pay them extra,” said Padmajay Rathod, the owner of a fuel station in the city. Thakkar said that while no fuel stations have shut, the losses are tremendous. FGSPDA has made representations to oil companies, seeking financial assistance. “We are awaiting their response and hope some help is extended,” said Thakkar.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/april-fuel-sales-in-gujarat-set-to-fall-by-85/articleshow/75194771.cms||Niyati Parikh
April 16, 2020||Vadodara||Lockdown: April fuel sales in Gujarat set to fall by 85%||AHMEDABAD: With restrictions on vehicle movements, petrol and diesel sales have unsurprisingly fallen across the state. According to estimates by the Federation of Gujarat State Petroleum Dealers’ Associations (FGSPDA), petrol and diesel sales fell by 85% drop in Gujarat in April. Petroleum dealers are staring at massively lower revenue due owing to the lockdown. According to FGSPDA estimates, usually, 23 crore litres of petrol and 55 crore litres of diesel is sold in the state every month. “With restrictions on vehicle movements since the day the ‘janata curfew’ was imposed, there was barely any business for 10-11 days in March and sales declined by 30%. The entire month of April will be under the lockdown and therefore, a decline of at least 85% decline is expected,” said Arvind Thakkar, president, FGSPDA. Currently, transport vehicles are almost the only ones moving but due to the manpower crisis, less than 5% of transport vehicles are currently plying the roads in Gujarat and thus, fuel sales, particularly that of diesel has drastically come down. Industry estimates show that diesel sales are driven by commercial vehicles. For the first fortnight of April, 1.5 crore litres of petrol and 4.1 crore litres of diesel were sold. Several dealers have retailed less than 10% of normal sales. Dealers are raising concerns about the health of their businesses. “There has been a greater than 90% decline in sales due to the restrictions. Our overheads including paying staffers, electricity bills and other charges remain the same while sales are massively down, thus putting a question mark on the business. We are currently operating with 50% staff because there is less work but those who are working are at risk despite all precautions and we thus pay them extra,” said Padmajay Rathod, the owner of a fuel station in the city. Thakkar said that while no fuel stations have shut, the losses are tremendous. FGSPDA has made representations to oil companies, seeking financial assistance. “We are awaiting their response and hope some help is extended,” said Thakkar.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/april-fuel-sales-in-gujarat-set-to-fall-by-85/articleshow/75194765.cms||Niyati Parikh
April 16, 2020||Pune||Pune: Liquor bottles worth Rs 10 lakh stolen||PUNE: Bottles of liquor worth Rs8.81 lakh and Rs1.82 lakh were stolen from a bar at Vadgaon Nimbalkar in Baramati and a liquor shop at Bhigwan, respectively, during the night intervening Monday and Tuesday. The rural police said the strict lockdown implementation was driving thieves and addicts to commit such acts.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/liquor-bottles-worth-rs-10l-stolen/articleshow/75169854.cms||---
April 16, 2020||Kochi||UK airlifts its citizens stranded in Kerala||KOCHI: An evacuation flight of British Airways left for Heathrow Airport from Cochin International Airport Limited (Cial) on Wednesday night with around 260 UK nationals who were stranded in Kerala due to lockdown. Most of them have reached Kerala on tourist visa and the rest for medical purposes. Many of them were supposed to leave India over the last couple of days but the flights got cancelled due to the lockdown. The flight (BA 9111C) has arrived from UK after receiving permission from Director General of Civil Aviation (DGCA) and first went to Thiruvananthapuram to airlift the UK nationals who were stranded there. After that, it reached Cial and left for Heathrow by 9.50pm. Among the 260-odd UK nationals, there were eight Brits who had undergone treatment for Covid-19 at Government Medical College, Ernakulam, and cured. They were part of 19-odd British nationals were offloaded from a flight after one of them (Brian Neil) tested Covid-19 positive, exactly a month ago. Eleven among the 19 were tested negative earlier and sent back on March 23. They were all full of gratitude for the treatment here and their parting words were “It is hard to put into words one’s gratitude when one’s live is saved.” “We want to thank all the doctors and nurses at both the GMC Ernakulam and private hospitals for their special care and excellent treatment they gave us, leading to all in the party successfully recovering from Covid19,” said Jane Lockwood, wife of Brian Neil. Brian Neil was administered anti-retroviral drugs for fast recovery after he developed medical complications. “We have just had Raj Kumar, joint director of Kerala tourism, here to help get all our paperwork in order. Also, we would like to thank staff Bolgatty Palace hotels for making our stay there as comfortable as possible - everyone has been so kind to us. Besides, our travel agent here, Kochi City police have also checked on welfare regularly. We thank them all,” she said. The health department had conducted medical check-up of the passengers and certified them asymptomatic. They were brought to the airport in buses arranged by the UK Embassy with the help of state police department. Diplomatic officers from British deputy high commission in Chennai and Bengaluru were in the state on Monday to oversee the arrangements. Cial followed the Covid-19 protocol during the boarding of the UK passengers. The baggage of the passengers was disinfected and they were provided with hand sanitizers. They had also undergone mandatory health screening at the terminal. The passengers were given special seating area arranged towards the east side of the check-in counters. Seating was arranged at the check-in area maintaining distance between individual chairs as per health protocol for Covid-19. The check-in was completed in small groups with maximum five persons in a line at a time. Earlier on Tuesday, a Maldivian aircraft has flown out of Kochi with 79 passengers at 12.10am. On April 6, 189 Maldivians, who have reached Kerala as tourists and for treatment purposes before the lockdown started, were airlifted from Kochi airport in a specially charted aircraft. The flight operated on Tuesday was in continuation of the same evacuation drive by the government of Maldives.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/uk-airlifts-its-citizens-stranded-in-kerala/articleshow/75167196.cms||---
April 16, 2020||Hyderabad||Away from kin, workers in Hyderabad desperate to return home||HYDERABAD: Crammed inside makeshift sheds along the upscale IT corridor of Hyderabad, the thousands of migrant labourers from West Bengal, Jharkhand, Uttar Pradesh and Bihar, have only one desire – to return home to their families as soon as possible. If some are anxious about their ageing parents, others are worried about their wives and young children who, they say, are struggling to make ends meet. As TOI travelled through their camps in Kondapur and Nanakramguda, on Wednesday, hundreds of construction workers queued up seeking help and appealing to the authorities to take them back to their states. Though most said that their employees were making sure they get at least two square meals a day, they do not feel secure in the city anymore. Reason: on an average, 6 to 10 people share a single room, which makes social distancing an impossibility. Worse, with construction sites closed due to the lockdown, none of them are being paid their daily wages – Rs 200 to Rs 400 – that they usually save to send home. The lack of clarity over just when train services with resume, has only made matters worse of these workers. The city has over 60,000 migrant labourers working in the organised construction sector. The number in the unorganised sector is much higher. “My wife is due for delivery in May. I had a ticket for this month, but now I can’t go home. I feel helpless as I do not know anybody here who I can reach out for support. If something happens to my family, will the government take care?” said a visibly distraught Anil Goud, staying at a site in Kondapur, along with 1,200 to 1,500 others. The labourer from Gorakhpur, Uttar Pradesh, who lives in the city along with his brother is certain to take the first train back home, as soon as they become operational. Ramprasad Ray from Lucknow, UP said, “We are willing to adhere with the lockdown — be it 30 days or three months. Right now, all we want is for the government to facilitate our return to our families and ensure every labourer gets his/her daily wage. After that, we promise not to step out.” “Given our living conditions here, even if one person contracts the virus, all of us will get infected,” he added, standing outside his shanty in Nanakramguda – one of the largest construction labourers’ camp in the city that houses around 3,000 people. But while workers in these camps have access to food and water, at some sites — that TOI visited — even that is a struggle. “We barely get any essentials from our employers. And if we step out to buy them, the police beat us,” said Sandhan Mondal, from West Bengal’s Malda district, outside a site in the Financial District. It has around 500 labourers living within its premises. Not surprising then, that some workers like Mohd Sheik and Lanchan Sheik have vowed not to return to the city even if that means settling for a less paying job back home. “I can assure all labourers are well taken care of. They have all been paid for March, even if there wasn’t much activity at construction sites. For April too, they will be paid by the end of the month. The money is disbursed through the contractors,” said P Ramakrishna Rao, president, Credai Hyderabad. Watch COVID-19 crisis: Away from kin, workers in Hyderabad desperate to return home||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/away-from-kin-workers-desperate-to-return-home/articleshow/75169861.cms||Sudipta Sengupta
April 16, 2020||Jaipur||Lockdown extends, farm workers in Jaisalmer leave for home states||Jaisalmer: Disappointed with Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s announcement about extension of lockdown period till May 3, many labourers who had come to Indira Gandhi Canal area in Jaisalmer for harvesting crops in January, have started to leave for their home states. These farm workers can be seen walking along the railway tracks towards their destinations. At many places, the railway station masters are stopping them and persuading them to go back. At some places, these people have stopped, but a large number is still walking towards their houses. District collector Namit Mehta and SP Kiran Kung had visited many places in canal areas on Monday and directed to stop the labourers and arrange food and shelter for them. The district administration and police teams have started making efforts to stop them at various check-posts and road routes, but the labourers are not ready to listen to them and continue walking even leaving their belongings behind. On Tuesday, dozens of labourer groups from Sodhakor village were going towards Pokhran along the railway tracks. Lathi railway station master reached the spot and persuaded them to go to the Government Senior Secondary School. Collector Mehta said that around 300 labourers have left Mohangarh, Nachna and other areas who were stopped. Many others were stopped near Ramdeora. They were persuaded and shifted to schools. The state government has been apprised about the problem of labourers leaving the place. He said that better arrangements of shelter and food for these labourers have been made. SP Kung said that many labourers from the canal areas are leaving for their homes and police are trying to stop them and persuading them, but the labourers are not listening. Patrolling has been also increased in the area.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/lockdown-extends-farm-workers-in-jaisalmer-leave-for-home-states/articleshow/75160877.cms||---
April 16, 2020||Pune||120 bags of rice, oil pouches burgled from grocery shop at Maan in Hinjewadi||PUNE: Around 120 bags of rice worth Rs1.03 lakh and a box of oil pouches worth Rs12,000 were stolen from a grocery shop at Maan in Hinjewadi on Tuesday. Except medical and essential services shops, all other shops are shut with the lockdown in effect. Along with these closed establishments, liquor shops too, are now on the radar of burglars, police said. Grocery shopowner Shravan Kumar Gehlot (43) has lodged an FIR with the Hinjewadi police. Gehlot told TOI that his shop, Majisa Super Market, is located near a construction site at Maan. “On Monday I had refilled the bags of rice as we find it difficult to go to market every day during the lockdown,” Gehlot said. On Wednesday around 6.30am when he went to the shop he found someone had removed the tin door of the shop. “I found that 120 bags of rice were missing along with a box of oil pouches, collectively worth Rs1.15 lakh,” Gehlot said. Investigating officer Mahesh Waybase of the Hinjewadi police said the offence has been registered under sections 380 and 461 (dishonestly breaking open receptacle containing property) of the IPC. On April 1, two criminals on police record had broken into four medical shops in Chinchwad and decamped with Rs5,000 from one of the shops. The duo was later arrested by the Chinchwad police. An officer from the Pimpri Chinchwad crime branch said the thieves have been targeting the grocery and medical shops as these shops are operating during the lockdown. “In some areas suspects also broke into liquor shops. But these shops may be targeted by alcoholics who are finding it difficult to get liquor. We have launched a search for the thieves,” the officer said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/120-bags-of-rice-oil-pouches-burgled-from-grocery-shop/articleshow/75169848.cms||Mihir Tanksale
April 16, 2020||Rajkot||Lockdown: April fuel sales in Gujarat set to fall by 85%||AHMEDABAD: With restrictions on vehicle movements, petrol and diesel sales have unsurprisingly fallen across the state. According to estimates by the Federation of Gujarat State Petroleum Dealers’ Associations (FGSPDA), petrol and diesel sales fell by 85% drop in Gujarat in April. Petroleum dealers are staring at massively lower revenue due owing to the lockdown. According to FGSPDA estimates, usually, 23 crore litres of petrol and 55 crore litres of diesel is sold in the state every month. “With restrictions on vehicle movements since the day the ‘janata curfew’ was imposed, there was barely any business for 10-11 days in March and sales declined by 30%. The entire month of April will be under the lockdown and therefore, a decline of at least 85% decline is expected,” said Arvind Thakkar, president, FGSPDA. Currently, transport vehicles are almost the only ones moving but due to the manpower crisis, less than 5% of transport vehicles are currently plying the roads in Gujarat and thus, fuel sales, particularly that of diesel has drastically come down. Industry estimates show that diesel sales are driven by commercial vehicles. For the first fortnight of April, 1.5 crore litres of petrol and 4.1 crore litres of diesel were sold. Several dealers have retailed less than 10% of normal sales. Dealers are raising concerns about the health of their businesses. “There has been a greater than 90% decline in sales due to the restrictions. Our overheads including paying staffers, electricity bills and other charges remain the same while sales are massively down, thus putting a question mark on the business. We are currently operating with 50% staff because there is less work but those who are working are at risk despite all precautions and we thus pay them extra,” said Padmajay Rathod, the owner of a fuel station in the city. Thakkar said that while no fuel stations have shut, the losses are tremendous. FGSPDA has made representations to oil companies, seeking financial assistance. “We are awaiting their response and hope some help is extended,” said Thakkar.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/april-fuel-sales-in-gujarat-set-to-fall-by-85/articleshow/75194768.cms||Niyati Parikh
April 16, 2020||Ahmedabad||Lockdown: April fuel sales in Gujarat set to fall by 85%||AHMEDABAD: With restrictions on vehicle movements, petrol and diesel sales have unsurprisingly fallen across the state. According to estimates by the Federation of Gujarat State Petroleum Dealers’ Associations (FGSPDA), petrol and diesel sales fell by 85% drop in Gujarat in April. Petroleum dealers are staring at massively lower revenue due owing to the lockdown. According to FGSPDA estimates, usually, 23 crore litres of petrol and 55 crore litres of diesel is sold in the state every month. “With restrictions on vehicle movements since the day the ‘janata curfew’ was imposed, there was barely any business for 10-11 days in March and sales declined by 30%. The entire month of April will be under the lockdown and therefore, a decline of at least 85% decline is expected,” said Arvind Thakkar, president, FGSPDA. Currently, transport vehicles are almost the only ones moving but due to the manpower crisis, less than 5% of transport vehicles are currently plying the roads in Gujarat and thus, fuel sales, particularly that of diesel has drastically come down. Industry estimates show that diesel sales are driven by commercial vehicles. For the first fortnight of April, 1.5 crore litres of petrol and 4.1 crore litres of diesel were sold. Several dealers have retailed less than 10% of normal sales. Dealers are raising concerns about the health of their businesses. “There has been a greater than 90% decline in sales due to the restrictions. Our overheads including paying staffers, electricity bills and other charges remain the same while sales are massively down, thus putting a question mark on the business. We are currently operating with 50% staff because there is less work but those who are working are at risk despite all precautions and we thus pay them extra,” said Padmajay Rathod, the owner of a fuel station in the city. Thakkar said that while no fuel stations have shut, the losses are tremendous. FGSPDA has made representations to oil companies, seeking financial assistance. “We are awaiting their response and hope some help is extended,” said Thakkar.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/april-fuel-sales-in-gujarat-set-to-fall-by-85/articleshow/75189139.cms||Niyati Parikh
April 16, 2020||Pune||Indian Army personnel give ration to 800 in need||Pune: Army jawans and junior commissioned officers posted with various defence establishments in the city have contributed in providing groceries to around 800 migrant workers that are engaged in the construction of the new command hospital in Wanowrie. They have distributed 2,600kg of ration — including rice, pulses, salt, edible oil — in the first two weeks of April. At present, the workers are staying in facilities on the hospital premises where social distancing and other safety measures are in place, a source from the Army said. An Army officer, who did not wish to be named, said, “These workers, mostly hailing from Bihar and Madhya Pradesh, have been working at the site for the last two years. They could not go back to their homes because of lack of transport due to the lockdown announcement. Their accommodation arrangement was made at the hospital site. They had no ration so we internally put out requests to all ranks of our personnel to voluntarily contribute for their food.” Nishant Teotia, the safety officer of a private firm that is constructing the hospital, said, “These workers are not only getting ration but are also getting medicines whenever needed and in time. They have all the basic facilities here and are safe and secure.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/indian-army-personnel-give-ration-to-800-in-need/articleshow/75169864.cms||---
April 16, 2020||Udaipur||Aravali blushes as birds tweet on Palash trees||UDAIPUR: The forest department had planned to hold the first-of-its-kind Palash festival last month but things went awry due to the lockdown and the event was called off. However, nature seems to be rejoicing the blooming season of the beautiful trees as the ‘Flame of the Forest’ is painting the Aravalis range red. Amid the Palash trees blooming with bright orange-vermilion flowers, one can see a multitude of birds assemble on the flowers to seek nectar from it. They include the common myna, white eye, purple rumped sunbird, yellow throated sparrow, rose ringed parakeet, tailor bird and plum headed parakeet. Many birds seen in groups are rosy starlings. Many butterflies, wasps and honey bees also visit. Langoor raid it to eat the flowers. Little green bee eater also remains present to eat honey bees! It is just like a festival during its blossom. “The Samar forest block in Udaipur, 20 km from here, is a whole valley blooming with Palash these days. We had planned to hold the festival here, unfortunately it had to be called off. However, the lockdown has come as a boon for the nature and wildlife in general as the pollution level has considerably decreased. We are observing better and safe movements of avian species. Also, there are less trampling of snakes and other animals on roads and the stress on the wildlife has reduced to a great extent,” Rahul Bhatnagar, ex CCF told TOI. The forest department in collaboration with voluntary organisations had planned the Palash festival to spread awareness on the need to conserve the trees which was once found in abundance in the region. “Like many other trees growing in the forest, the Palash is also lopped for fuel wood and other purposes. So we need to conserve it like many other trees, we need to create awareness about its importance to children and general public,” Bhatnagar said. Authorities are planning to develop Palash groves near cities to develop a bond between the tree and people so that they can also appreciate its beauty and association with birds and animals. “Palash is part of our history and culture. It finds mention in our art, litrature and ancient text like ‘Puranas’. Palash is known as Kimshuk, Harni, Dhak, Cheela, Khakara and Tesu. Its scientific name is Butea monosperma. It is small in size tree and mostly grows upto 15 metres height. The tree trunk is crooked in shape. In 10 years, it grows to around 20 cm in thickness. Palash leaves are arranged in bunch of three leaflets to be made into ‘donas.’ The flower is fleshy and remains fresh for quite some time. Colour and shape of its flower is unique and beautiful. The fresh flowers do not have any smell but when flower are lying in a heap rotting, they emit a sweet smell. It is a dominant tree in many parts of its range and is found in good number in those areas. Plates and other utensils are made from its leaves. The flowers are soaked in water to take bath from that water which is supposed to be an excellent moisturizer and an antidote for skin aliments of children. Roots are used to make ropes. It is also used to to secure dam bund from washing down during rains.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/udaipur/aravali-blushes-as-birds-tweet-on-palash-trees/articleshow/75172597.cms||Geetha Sunil Pillai
April 16, 2020||Jaipur||Aravali blushes as birds tweet on Palash trees||UDAIPUR: The forest department had planned to hold the first-of-its-kind Palash festival last month but things went awry due to the lockdown and the event was called off. However, nature seems to be rejoicing the blooming season of the beautiful trees as the ‘Flame of the Forest’ is painting the Aravalis range red. Amid the Palash trees blooming with bright orange-vermilion flowers, one can see a multitude of birds assemble on the flowers to seek nectar from it. They include the common myna, white eye, purple rumped sunbird, yellow throated sparrow, rose ringed parakeet, tailor bird and plum headed parakeet. Many birds seen in groups are rosy starlings. Many butterflies, wasps and honey bees also visit. Langoor raid it to eat the flowers. Little green bee eater also remains present to eat honey bees! It is just like a festival during its blossom. “The Samar forest block in Udaipur, 20 km from here, is a whole valley blooming with Palash these days. We had planned to hold the festival here, unfortunately it had to be called off. However, the lockdown has come as a boon for the nature and wildlife in general as the pollution level has considerably decreased. We are observing better and safe movements of avian species. Also, there are less trampling of snakes and other animals on roads and the stress on the wildlife has reduced to a great extent,” Rahul Bhatnagar, ex CCF told TOI. The forest department in collaboration with voluntary organisations had planned the Palash festival to spread awareness on the need to conserve the trees which was once found in abundance in the region. “Like many other trees growing in the forest, the Palash is also lopped for fuel wood and other purposes. So we need to conserve it like many other trees, we need to create awareness about its importance to children and general public,” Bhatnagar said. Authorities are planning to develop Palash groves near cities to develop a bond between the tree and people so that they can also appreciate its beauty and association with birds and animals. “Palash is part of our history and culture. It finds mention in our art, litrature and ancient text like ‘Puranas’. Palash is known as Kimshuk, Harni, Dhak, Cheela, Khakara and Tesu. Its scientific name is Butea monosperma. It is small in size tree and mostly grows upto 15 metres height. The tree trunk is crooked in shape. In 10 years, it grows to around 20 cm in thickness. Palash leaves are arranged in bunch of three leaflets to be made into ‘donas.’ The flower is fleshy and remains fresh for quite some time. Colour and shape of its flower is unique and beautiful. The fresh flowers do not have any smell but when flower are lying in a heap rotting, they emit a sweet smell. It is a dominant tree in many parts of its range and is found in good number in those areas. Plates and other utensils are made from its leaves. The flowers are soaked in water to take bath from that water which is supposed to be an excellent moisturizer and an antidote for skin aliments of children. Roots are used to make ropes. It is also used to to secure dam bund from washing down during rains.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/aravali-blushes-as-birds-tweet-on-palash-trees/articleshow/75169866.cms||Geetha Sunil Pillai
April 16, 2020||Chennai||Staffer tests positive; 2 Tamil Nadu judges in soup||CHENNAI: The nationwide lockdown and caution by the higher judiciary notwithstanding, indiscretion by a district judge and chief judicial magistrate of Tirunelveli district has put the entire district judiciary in Covid-19-infection risk. The two asked all staff members of the district judiciary to attend court on April 8 and 9 and also conducted a meeting of all judicial officers in a small air-conditioned room. A woman employee has now tested positive for Covid-19, resulting in home quarantine of 30 staffers. Association seeks action against two officersIn a letter to the registrar-general of the Madras high court on April 14, the Tirunelveli principal district judge admitted that an office assistant had indeedtested positive and,therefore, allstaff memberswhowere in contact with the woman employee during the past 15 days had been quarantined. But the Tamil Nadu Judicial Employees Association has not taken the development lightly. Fearing spread of infection to the entire district judiciary due to the action of the two judicial officers, the association has complained to the high court seeking action against the two officers. In its four-page representation, the association alleged that besides the meeting on April 8 and 9, the office assistantwas madeto attendtodomestic works at the residence of a judicial officer concerned. “All staff members who have travelled along withtheoffice assistant on the said day in an autorickshaw are in panic. This includes a woman court assistant who is pregnant. Our members are forced to meet this critical situation due to the compulsion of the principal district judge and the chief judicial magistrate without any social responsibility and in violation of circulars of the high court,” the representation said. “We most humbly request the high court to intervene and take appropriate action (against the DJ and the CJM) for violating the directions of the chief justice of the high court. We further request the high court to protectthewelfareof itsemployees now under social isolation and house quarantine due to the grave situation,” it said. Despite repeated attempts by TOI, the registrar-general of the high court did not respond to calls.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/staffer-tests-positive-2-tn-judges-in-soup/articleshow/75169907.cms||Suresh Kumar
April 16, 2020||Bhopal||War against Covid-19: NGOs and individuals making masks for the needy||Bhopal: Now that district administration has made it compulsory for everyone to wear masks while stepping out for important work, the demand for the masks has suddenly increased. Many self-help groups, entrepreneurs, individuals as well as NGOs have taken it upon themselves to make home-made, fabric masks for the corona warriors and the needy, so that they stay safe.Mahashakti NGO in collaboration with municipal authorities has made around 7000 fabric masks for people living in the slums, as they can’t afford to purchase the masks from the market. "We bought cotton cloth in bulk and distributed it among our NGO workers who have sewing machines at home. The cloth is cut into manageable pieces and washed before the process of making the masks begins. After the masks are stitched, the ladies wash them with detergent and dip them in liquid sanitizer. We have manufactured around 7000 masks till now and distributed them to sanitation workers, policemen at check-posts and people in slum areas," said Pooja Iyengar of the NGO.Another NGO, Sahara Saksharta Education and Social Welfare Society, has also taken up the task of making masks during the ongoing Covid-19 pandemic. The NGO has branches all over Madhya Pradesh and has involved many youngsters as well as homemakers to make these masks. Many individuals are funding the NGOs to buy the cloth and make more masks.Lakshmi Dongre, a tailor, has also started making masks with the leftover pieces of fabric."I wash all the leftover pieces of cloth lying with me and then make masks out of them. I’m only using cotton fabric as other fabrics don’t allow people to breathe freely. I’m able to make only 5-10 masks per day and distribute them to the sanitation workers who come to collect the garbage and sweep the locality in the morning, milkman and vegetable vendors who cannot afford to buy the masks," said Dongre, a resident of Jawahar Chowk.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/war-against-covid-19-ngos-and-individuals-making-masks-for-the-needy/articleshow/75168891.cms||---
April 16, 2020||Ahmedabad||Ahmedabad: Patient with kidney trouble dies as hospital closes ICU||AHMEDABAD: The private medical service paralysed due to the Covid-19 spread and the nationwide lockdown has started taking its toll now. A 69-year-old man suffering from a chronic kidney disease did not survive because he required an urgent ICU facility, but the private hospital, he was in, had closed its ICU due to the dip in the number of patients. The case involved P T Sebastian from Bodakdev area who was suffering from the kidney ailment. His family was on the receiving end, and they still cannot comprehend that they were so helpless because the ICU facility was not operational. Sebastian’s condition deteriorated on Sunday, but the pathology service was not available due to the lockdown. The family waited till Monday morning for blood tests. Since his condition became critical, his treating doctor advised him immediate dialysis, though his scheduled dialysis was on Tuesday at Trisha Multi-specialty Hospital in Vadaj. Sebastian’s widow Sushma told TOI: “First of all, it took us a great deal to convince the hospital staff to take my husband on dialysis a day ahead out of turn. As his condition deteriorated further, we requested the hospital staff to treat him in the ICU. But the hospital told us that the ICU facility was shut because of the government’s orders.” Sushma said that Sebastian was later shifted to another hospital, where the ICU was operational. “Because of the skeletal hospital staff in this lockdown period, we faced a lot of difficulty in shifting him. However, by the time he was shifted to the ICU and the ventilator was made available, he had already passed away. We felt so helpless because of the waste of time. There must be many people in this country who may have to suffer because of such situations,” Sushma said. The hospital authority refused to admit that the ICU facility was denied to the patient, and clarified that there were no orders from the government to shut the ICU. Dr Hitesh Panchal of Trisha Hospital said, “We have closed our ICU facility for the past 15 days because we had not received patients after the lockdown. We are running only emergency dialysis and the orthopaedic department.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/patient-with-kidney-trouble-dies-as-hospital-closes-icu/articleshow/75169933.cms||---
April 16, 2020||Kolkata||Central order dampener for West Bengal's liquor plans||KOLKATA: A circular issued by the ministry of home affairs (MHA) on Wednesday came as a dampener on the initiative taken by the state excise department to deliver liquor at home. The circular has banned sale of liquor, gutka and tobacco in public spaces till May 3. Earlier in the day, before the circular was issued, several off-shop owners were coming around to the idea of home-delivering liquor, keeping within the guidelines. They turned sceptical following the circular. Some top clubs of the city, too, were contemplating home-delivery of liquor to its members. However, after the MHA order, they decided to scrap the plan. “We were thinking of home-delivery, following informal discussions with excise department. This morning we inspected our stocks as well. We thought of asking our workers to deliver liquor to the homes of our members who stay in the nearby areas. But now we have scrapped that idea,” said an official of a club. A leading retailer of liquor who started home delivery on Wednesday was caught in a dilemma after the order. “I heard that off-shops in some other states, where they were allowed to remain open, may shut down now. We shall discuss the matter of home-delivery at our association meeting on Thursday,” he added. However, executive chairman of International Spirits and Wine Association of India Amrit Kiran Singh pointed out that the MHA circular banning sale of liquor in public spaces cannot affect home-delivery of liquor. Singh pointed out that an off-shop is an excise premises of the respective state. “Off-shops according to excise law is not a public place. So, if somebody procures liquor from an off-shop and sells it to a private premises (home), it cannot be a violation of the MHA circular,” he added. After almost three dry weeks, tipplers had got booze through home delivery in some parts of the state earlier this week. The excise department, though, had not issued any notification for home-delivery. However, sources privy to the development said that excise officials informed off-shop owners that it may allow home-delivery, provided the local administration allowed it. There is no provision for home-delivery of liquor under excise laws, but there is no prohibition either. “It depends on interpretation of the law,” added an expert. Last week, the excise department wanted to follow the Wuhan model. The city, where Covid-19 was first detected, had enforced 68 days of lockdown and home-delivery of liquor was attempted successfully with the help of an app. On Wednesday, there was an informal communication from excise that during the lockdown, liquor will delivered at homes from on/off shops, bars, restaurants and hotels with valid liquor permits. Incidentally, West Bengal is a market of 14.1 million (1.4 crore) cases of hard IMFL that includes whisky, rum, vodka etc and eight million (80 lakh) cases of beer.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/central-order-dampener-for-liquor-plans/articleshow/75169872.cms||Udit Mukherjee
April 16, 2020||Ahmedabad||‘Social distancing’ becomes bail condition||Ahmedabad: ‘Applicant shall abide by the law of the land’ and ‘he shall not misuse his liberty’ are the usual conditions imposed by courts in bail orders. But the nationwide lockdown due to the Covid-19 pandemic has added one more condition in the bail order of a murder convict. The Gujarat high court on Wednesday ordered Raghubhai Sohla, a murder convict, to maintain social distancing and follow all rules and regulations that the civic bodies and the state government have framed to curb the spread of the novel coronavirus, if he wanted to go out of prison temporarily. The prisoner will have to abide by the guidelines issued for citizens for Covid-19 pandemic and restrictions imposed on them during the lockdown. The HC has granted 10-day bail to Sohla, who wanted to see his wife and their newborn child. Since it was a premature delivery, the child’s health is not good and at present the child is in ICU in a hospital in Rajkot. After verifying all medical papers, the HC ordered to release the prisoner on his furnishing Rs 10,000 bond. The HC has imposed three routine conditions on Sohla, and after that it said, “By virtue of the present order, the applicant would be at large on temporary bail which would be during the period when the country and the state has been facing and fighting the situation arising out of dreadful spread of corona virus Covid-19, therefore it is directed further by way of condition imposed that during the period the applicant remains on temporary bail/leave, he will abide by the rules, regulations and circulars which may have been issued by the municipal corporation or municipal authority or any other government or semi-government body in relation to the corona disease.” The HC further ordered, “The applicant shall also observe the norms of social distancing and related discipline during the period of leave.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/social-distancing-becomes-bail-condition/articleshow/75189137.cms||---
April 16, 2020||Bengaluru||Doctor who battled to save Bengaluru from plague 122 years ago||Bengaluru: Doctors of Karnataka are in the forefront of the battle against Covid-19, like they were 122 years ago when bubonic plague swept the then princely Mysore state killing over 1.5 lakh people. Bangalore alone saw over 6,000 deaths after the pandemic started spreading from its Pete area in August of 1898. Fourteen doctors, including a woman, were tasked by the then Mysore government to check the advent of the pestilence in Bangalore. One of them, 35-year-old Gregory George Noronha, was in charge of a medical team stationed at Yeshwantpur railway station to screen passengers coming into the city from plague-affected parts like Bombay Presidency. The valiant doctor not only lost three of his children to plague-related illnesses, but also paid with his own life in 1901. Dr Noronha’s role in battling the disease is the stuff human history is made of. But his fourth-generation successor living in today’s Bengaluru didn’t have much clue about his forefather’s glorious role in saving Bangalore from the deadly plague. A family photograph accidentally discovered in mid-2012, however, led to unravelling the doctor’s worklife. “A framed photograph of the wedding of my grandmother Rose’s sister, taken 100 years ago, was hanging on the wall at my cousin’s home here. He opened and cleaned the frame to find hidden behind it a rare family photograph of Dr Noronha and family taken in 1897,” said Odette Katrak, great granddaughter of Dr Noronha and co-founder of Beautiful Bengaluru. The image was in pristine condition and had Dr Noronha with his wife Matilda and their three children, which was taken in Bangalore when the medical practitioner was posted as a special officer for plague duties after being transferred from Kolar. According to British officer PR Cadell’s report on the Outbreak of Plague in Bangalore 1898-99, the pandemic led to temporary construction of a plague hospital on Magadi Road to accommodate 108 patients which ultimately went up to 2,053 patients at one juncture. Dr Noronha was part of the team that was posted at Yeshwantpur station and his family resided in a tent in the vicinity as authorities then were mostly ignorant about the spread of the disease. Dr Noronha was only 39 when he died on March 3, 1901 in his hospital quarters due to complications arising from the disease. After that, it took more than 10 years for the city to be freed from plague.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/doctor-who-battled-to-save-bengaluru-from-plague-122-years-ago/articleshow/75169361.cms||Petlee Peter
April 16, 2020||Pune||Plea on prisoners’ release disposed off||PUNE: The Aurangabad bench of the Bombay high court on Wednesday “disposed off as withdrawn” a petition of two prisoners from the Harsul jail challenging the norms for extending interim bail relief to undertrial prisoners as a part of an exercise to decongest jails in the state in view of the Covid-19 scare. The bench of Justice V K Jadhav granted liberty to petitioners to prefer a representation before the high-power committee with plea for expeditious hearing of the same. The bench initially heard the petitioners’ lawyer Pradnya Talekar before it noted a praecipe had been moved on behalf of the petitioners before the chief justice of high court in Mumbai and it had been turned into a suo motu public interest litigation. Justice Jadhav observed, “The counsel for the petitioners seeks liberty to prefer representation before the high-power committee when this court expressed disinclination to entertain the writ petition. In view of the same, leave granted.” The bench also disposed off an intervention application filed by a Cidco Aurangabad resident, seeking dismissal of the petition.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/plea-on-prisoners-release-disposed-off/articleshow/75169875.cms||Vishwas Kothari
April 16, 2020||Thiruvananthapuram||Pet dog on quarantine after owner tests positive||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM: The animal husbandry department has kept a dog in home quarantine after its owner tested positive for Covid-19. The Pathanamthitta district administration noticed the one-and-a-half-year-old Indie while preparing the contact list of its owner, a 27-year-old man, who had returned home from Dubai on March 22. He was since quarantined at home in Airoor panchayat. The man tested positive on April 8. Health officials, who prepared contact list, was told that the dog, called Appu, had closely mingled with the youth. “The family comprises the father, mother and a younger brother, who are in home quarantine. Though we have quarantined the dog, it is in its natural habitat and not strictly in a kennel,” Dr Oommen P Raj, deputy director, Animal Husbandry, Pathanamthitta, said. The family and health workers checking on the quarantined people have been instructed to observe the dog for symptoms such as fever, nasal discharge, dullness or anorexia. “Currently, the dog is healthy and shows no symptoms,” Dr Raj said. Officials said though there has been no case of the virus getting transmitted from pets to humans, the dog has been quarantined as a precautionary measure. “Some local residents raised concerns after a tiger in a New York zoo was tested positive for Covid 19,” the official said. After discussions, the department decided to conduct tests only if the dog showed any symptoms. There are only three institutions—in Bhopal, Hisar, and Bareilly—to conduct Covid-19 test on animals in the country. “If there are any such symptoms, swabs will be sent to the national institute of high-security animal diseases in Bhopal, the nearest of the three,” the official said. Officials have also prepared a list of 427 domestic animals and birds in houses of persons either tested positive or on home quarantine. Incidentally, a three-year-old Indian Spitz at Deonar in Mumbai suburb was released to its owners after two weeks of quarantine. The dog was quarantined after the death of its caretaker, a 65-year-old woman.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/thiruvananthapuram/pet-dog-on-quarantine-after-owner-tests-ve/articleshow/75167247.cms||Jisha Surya
April 16, 2020||Patna||20 foreign nationals with Tablighi links held in Bihar||PATNA: Altogether 20 foreign nationals with links to the Tablighi Jamaat were arrested in Samastipur and Kishanganj districts on Tuesday for alleged violation of visa rules. Among those arrested are nine Bangladeshis, 10 Indonesians and one Malaysian. So far, 66 foreigners have been arrested under The Foreigners Act, 1946, who had entered India on tourist visa but were carrying out religious activities in contravention of rules. Earlier this week, 16 people Kyrgyzstan and one from Kazakhstan were arrested from Patna, seven Indonesians and four Malaysians from Buxar, and nine citizens each from Bangladesh and Malaysia were arrested from Araria on Monday and Tuesday. In Samastipur, nine Bangladeshi nationals were being hosted by one Dr Ishteyaque Ahmed at his residence in village Dharampur under Town police station area in the district. Town SHO Sitaram Prasad said Ahmed was also arrested along with the nine foreign nationals on charges of “harbouring them”. “All these foreign nationals were traced on April 1 after which they were quarantined for 14 days. They have tested negative for Covid-19. All were arrested on Tuesday and were forwarded to jail on the same day,” Prasad said. The SHO informed that the foreigners had reached Samastipur around Holi last month. “They were found involved in flouting visa rules. The Bangladeshis were involved in religious work in the country while they had been issued tourist visas,” he added. In Kishanganj, 10 Indonesian and one Malaysian nationals were arrested and sent to jail on Tuesday. Kishanganj Town SHO HK Yadav said all these foreign nationals had come to attend Tablighi Jamaat in Delhi. “They all were kept quarantined for 14 days and tested negative after which they were arrested. They were staying in a mosque in town area prior to arrest,” he said, adding, action was taken on the direction of senior authorities of the district administration.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/20-foreign-nationals-with-tablighi-links-held-in-bihar/articleshow/75167240.cms||Debashish Karmakar
April 16, 2020||Pune||Pune: GoAir to start operations from May 4||PUNE: GoAir on Wednesday announced a slew of measures to ensure proper sanitisation and social distancing when they begin partial operations from May 4. IndiGo, too, has announced partial operation from May 4 onwards."Strict social distancing will be maintained at the airport, check-in and boarding and on aerobridges. There will be row-wise boarding and de-boarding. The check-in counters will open three hours prior to departure and close one hour early to allow more time for sanitisation," an airline official said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/goair-to-start-operations-from-may-4/articleshow/75169888.cms||Joy Sengupta
April 16, 2020||Ahmedabad||Ahmedabad may be centre for trial for blood plasma therapy||AHMEDABAD: One of the major government run hospitals in Ahmedabad may soon be the centre for clinical trials for blood plasma therapy as a possible treatment against Covid-19, if approved by country’s apex biomedical research institution the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR). In this therapy blood plasma is extracted from people who have recovered from Covid19 and then injected into people who are suffering from the virus. The Gujarat government has made an application before ICMR on Sunday. On April 12, ICMR had invited a letter of intent from institutions with the equipment and infrastructure available to participate in a clinical trial to study the safety and efficacy of therapeutic plasma exchange in COVID-19 patients and for using Convalescent plasma therapy-- subsequent to necessary approvals and clearances. "Institutions which are interested to collaborate with ICMR on undertaking this trial intervention, may express their interest by providing details of their institution," the ICMR proposal had read. The Gujarat government had made an application on Sunday and had even written to the central government earlier too. Kerala is among the first states to apply for the permissions for the therapy. A senior state health official told TOI. "As per ICMR instructions, our primary objective of the plasma treatment is to assess the safety of convalescent plasma in treating Covid-19 affected patients. It is assumed that blood plasma from a cured patient will have antibodies against the virus and this can cure another patient." The official also cited a research in a medical institution in Wuhan in China which found that plasma infused in 10 adult patients with severe Covid19 symptoms could notably increase or maintain neutralizing antibodies at a high level and patients had marked improvement in their Covid19 symptoms. "We are waiting for the ICMR approval in this case."||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/ahmedabad-may-be-centre-for-trial/articleshow/75169942.cms||---
April 16, 2020||Ahmedabad||‘Appoint us and we will donate’||Ahmedabad: Women Lok Rakshak Dal (LRD) aspirants, who are still waiting for the government to issue appointment letters to them, have said that they are willing to donate one month’s salary to the PM relief fund if they are issued the letters. The LRD aspirants say that at a time when the government is seeking the services of retired cops, NCC officers and others to enforce the lockdown, it should give them appointment letters so that they can join service at the earliest. “None of the 5,277 women who scored 62.50% marks in the exams has been given the appointment letter yet by the government,” said Suresh Chaudhary, one of the leaders of the agitation by the LRD aspirants. “The women have decided that they will donate their one month’s salaries to the PM relief fund if they are issued appointment letters and asked to report for work immediately. This will also help the state to enforce the lockdown more efficiently,” stated Chaudhary. After widespread protests by the women LRD aspirants of both reserved and unreserved categories, the state government announced that all candidates who scored 62.50% or above in the written examination would be given appointment letters. However, with the Covid-19 outbreak, the government’s focus was diverted to the pandemic and how to check its spread. “Personnel of the police force have been working round-the-clock to ensure that the lockdown is obeyed by citizens,” Chaudhary said. “At such a time, it is necessary for the government to issue appointment letters to the women LRD candidates who have passed so that they can join the field duty right away,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/appoint-us-and-we-will-donate/articleshow/75189135.cms||---
April 16, 2020||Jaipur||More disinfection tunnels come up in Udaipur even as experts warn of health hazards||UDAIPUR: People and vehicles entering disinfection tunnels to sanitise themselves amid the Covid-19 spread is a common sight these days in the city. While in Tamil Nadu, the government has decided to dismantle them after the side-effects of such tunnels were highlighted, its number continues to increase in Udaipur as more voluntary organisations, private parties and even police department is setting up such tunnels and chambers in a bid to sanitise the area. According to experts, the hypochlorite solution is used for cleaning floors, tables and other furniture in hospitals. It is widely used in toilet cleaners and mosquito repellents. In some toilet cleaners, 0.5% of the chemical is used. Dr Shankar Bamnia, city in-charge on Covid-19, agrees to the fact that direct spray of the chemical may be harmful for human skin, but he says to deal with the pandemic and prevent its spread in the community is the foremost concern of the medical teams. “Too much exposure to the solution may be dangerous for the skin in long term, but for now, it seems to be an effective solution to sanitise market places,” he said. In Udaipur city, four disinfection tunnels have been installed by the Udaipur Municipal Corporation, but they are meant for sanitising vehicles only, not for human beings,” said commissioner Ankit Singh. But unaware of the health hazards, people are passing through the tunnels thinking it would keep them safe. At some places in the city disinfectant chambers are seen installed spraying the solution directly on people. “The virus entrapped in the palms cannot be destroyed in this manner. One has to clean hands using a sanitiser or soap and water. The real danger is the virus present in lung tubes. You will need to wear masks to prevent it from spreading it to others. Tunnels and chambers are ineffective,” claimed Mahesh Sharma, an activist.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/more-disinfection-tunnels-come-up-in-udaipur-even-as-experts-warn-of-health-hazards/articleshow/75169921.cms||---
April 16, 2020||Udaipur||More disinfection tunnels come up in Udaipur even as experts warn of health hazards||UDAIPUR: People and vehicles entering disinfection tunnels to sanitise themselves amid the Covid-19 spread is a common sight these days in the city. While in Tamil Nadu, the government has decided to dismantle them after the side-effects of such tunnels were highlighted, its number continues to increase in Udaipur as more voluntary organisations, private parties and even police department is setting up such tunnels and chambers in a bid to sanitise the area. According to experts, the hypochlorite solution is used for cleaning floors, tables and other furniture in hospitals. It is widely used in toilet cleaners and mosquito repellents. In some toilet cleaners, 0.5% of the chemical is used. Dr Shankar Bamnia, city in-charge on Covid-19, agrees to the fact that direct spray of the chemical may be harmful for human skin, but he says to deal with the pandemic and prevent its spread in the community is the foremost concern of the medical teams. “Too much exposure to the solution may be dangerous for the skin in long term, but for now, it seems to be an effective solution to sanitise market places,” he said. In Udaipur city, four disinfection tunnels have been installed by the Udaipur Municipal Corporation, but they are meant for sanitising vehicles only, not for human beings,” said commissioner Ankit Singh. But unaware of the health hazards, people are passing through the tunnels thinking it would keep them safe. At some places in the city disinfectant chambers are seen installed spraying the solution directly on people. “The virus entrapped in the palms cannot be destroyed in this manner. One has to clean hands using a sanitiser or soap and water. The real danger is the virus present in lung tubes. You will need to wear masks to prevent it from spreading it to others. Tunnels and chambers are ineffective,” claimed Mahesh Sharma, an activist.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/udaipur/more-disinfection-tunnels-come-up-in-udaipur-even-as-experts-warn-of-health-hazards/articleshow/75172557.cms||---
April 16, 2020||Ahmedabad||No transport but evaluation duty looms||Ahmedabad: The distance between Valsad and Surat is 95km and educators in Valsad who are supposed to report for evaluation duty from Thursday wonder how they will travel. Public transport has been suspended because of the lockdown. The same problem confronts educators who have to reach the evaluation centre in Vadu from Mehsana (which is 37km away), Sabarkantha (97km), Patan (85km), and Banaskantha (175km). Villages have sealed their borders due to the coronavirus threat. So the educators ask how they will reach the centres even if they somehow manage to reach the designated villages. A delegation of the Gujarat Rajya Sangh Shaishanik Sangh Sankalan Samiti had met chief minister Vijay Rupani on Tuesday. It had requested him to postpone the evaluation process till after the lockdown. The delegation also suggested the work from home option. About 50,000 teachers have to report to 300-odd centres. Talking to TOI, Vinod Rao, secretary, primary and secondary education, the government of Gujarat, said, “Teachers fall in the category of essential services and they will have to report for evaluation duty.” One city-based educator said, “My house is in the red zone and autorickshaws are not available. How will I cover this distance daily?” She added, “I have a senior citizen at home. Who will manage her needs when I am away for so long? Besides, if I step out of home, I may be putting my family at risk.” Another educator said, “Agreed that our services fall in the category of essential services, but some tasks can be postponed.” Dinesh Chaudhari, the general secretary of the association said, “Teachers never have and never will shy away from their duty.” But, Chaudhari said, the government needs to consider practical challenges teachers will face if the evaluation process starts from April 16.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/no-transport-but-evaluation-duty-looms/articleshow/75169896.cms||---
April 16, 2020||Hyderabad||Nowhere to go, migrants cooped up in Hyderabad||HYDERABAD: The Telangana government has identified about 3.35 lakh migrant labourers for supply of 12kg free rice and Rs 500 per person cash scheme, however, activists say that the numbers are far more than what the government has identified. They claim that there are about 6 lakh such workers in the state and a majority of them do not have ration cards. Several NGOs, working for the welfare of migrant labourers, claim that the survey done by the government to identify the migrant workers for the relief scheme during the lockdown period ‘was a rapid survey and not a detailed one’. As a result, not all the migrant labourers were covered by the survey and several of the identified 3.35 lakh workers are still to get Rs 500. Members of Rythu Swarajya Vedika, Human Rights Forum and Arogya Jeevan among other NGOs said individuals and organisations are donating essential commodities to the migrant labourers, who missed out on the government’s scheme. They appealed to the government to revise its numbers and reach out to everyone in need of rice and cash. There are lakhs of migrant workers mainly staying in areas near the industrial clusters in and around Greater Hyderabad, Rangareddy, Medchal and Sangareddy. Jeevan Kumar, of Human Rights Forum, told TOI that workers from Odisha come to Telangana to work in brick kilns and most of them are not registered with the labour department. “Workers from Bihar, Jharkhand, Chhattisgarh and Uttar Pradesh are employed on a contract basis by the managements of industries in Nacharam, Patancheru and other places. Many have also not been covered by government’s rapid survey,” Kumar said. Kanneganti Ravi of Rythu Swarajya Vedika said managements do not submit the list of all contract workers to the labour department.. However, officials in the labour department said the rice and cash scheme has been extended to almost all the 3.35 lakh migrant labourers identified in the survey.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/many-denied-rice-cash-say-activists/articleshow/75169918.cms||Roushan Ali
April 16, 2020||Pune||Centre’s nod to ply a relief for truckers stuck for days||PUNE: With the Centre allowing plying of trucks carrying essential and non-essential items or moving empty from April 20, transporters are a bit relieved. Baba Shinde, president of the Maharashtra State Vahan Chalak Malak Pratinidhi Sanghatna and a member of the All India Motor Transport Congress, said, “It is a good news for the truck drivers and transporters, who can now expect business. Close to 10 lakh trucks were stranded at different checkpoints and industrial areas of Maharashtra .The truckers were in a trouble with al roadside eateries remaining closed.” All India Motor Transport Congress president Kulktran Singh Atwal had earlier said many truck drivers were deserting the vehicles with the commodities and walking back home. Shinde said opening of the eateries and vehicle repair and spare shops would be a bg help. Vijay Kumar Ram, one of the thousands of truck drivers stranded by the lockdown, said, “We have suffered for three weeks, work is at a standstill, we eat what we cook and stay in our vehicles on the highway.” Ram drives a trailer and with nine others, all of whom ply trailers for a Mumbai transport firm, is stuck on a highway near Navsari in Gujarat. Speaking to TOI on phone, Ram said he missed his family in Bihar and was keen to return home, but felt no bitterness for the government’s decision. Said Abhishek Gupta, who owns a transport firm, “Some days back, the truckers ere struggling to get water to drink. Even petrol pump dealers did not allow them to use their tap fearing infection.” (With inputs from Somit Sen in Mumbai)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/centres-nod-to-ply-a-relief-for-truckers-stuck-for-days/articleshow/75169901.cms||Joy Sengupta
April 16, 2020||Ahmedabad||Courts resume work via video conferencing||Ahmedabad: As the Gujarat high court resumed work during the lockdown with an increased number of benches, the judges heard 111 cases through video conferencing and disposed 59 of them including 10 applications on interim bail on Wednesday and more cases were handled on Thursday. The HC constituted five benches including one division bench to deal with bail and detention matters. All judges conducted matters through video conferencing from their homes. Meanwhile, the principal city civil judge, Shubhada Baxi, also assigned urgent matters for hearing to three judges, who conducted them through video-conferencing. Of the bail matters taken up on Thursday, as many as 94 applications were rejected, because they were filed by accused in heinous offences like murder, rape and drug peddling, said public prosecutor Sudhir Brahmbhatt. The district courts at the Mirzapur rural court campus too have started working through video-conferencing and began conducting bail and urgent matters. Meanwhile, the president of the Gujarat High Court Advocates’ Association, Yatin Oza, made a representation to the city police commissioner and urged him to grant relaxation to advocates who have to travel from their residences to offices for the purpose of addressing courts.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/courts-resume-work-via-video-conferencing/articleshow/75189132.cms||---
April 16, 2020||Bhopal||13000 people reveal their travel history as 1 more tests + in Jabalpur||Jabalpur: One more suspect was tested positive for Covid-19 in Jabalpur on Wednesday, taking the total number of patients in the city to 12. Sources said that patient, who tested positive on Wednesday is aged around 40 years and had come into contact with 10th patient of Jabalpur.It is noteworthy that an elderly man was the 10th patient to be tested positive in the city, later his 12-year-old grandson was also tested positive. The 12th positive patient happens to be a friend of the elderly patient’s son, said sources. Four people were found positive in the city on March 20, since then 12 people have been tested positive, however, five of them have recovered and also discharged from hospitals. In the meantime, around 13000 people have provided information about their travel history to administration in Jabalpur. Administrative officer of Jabalpur Smart City Private Limited, Ravi Rao said, “Around 13000 people in the city have so far informed us about their travel histories.” Sources said that collection of information from people who have domestic travel history after March 10, had begun on April 9. Information regarding the foreign travel history of the patients has already been collected, added sources. Administration has also sought information from domestic airline companies, bus operators, railways and taxi service operators, and matching it with the information provided by suspected patients. District collector Bharat Yadav had ordered that it is mandatory for the residents to inform if they have any kind of travel history after March 10, including travel to other states, towns or any other country.Those not providing the information will be liable for action, the collector had said in his order. People can also provide information online or through telephone by calling on the control room set up at Jabalpur Smart City office to curb the spread of corona infection.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/13000-people-reveal-their-travel-history-as-1-more-tests-in-jabalpur/articleshow/75168961.cms||---
April 16, 2020||Thiruvananthapuram||16 foreign tourists booked for lockdown violation||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM: Police have registered a case against 16 foreign tourists, hailing from various countries, including Russia, UK, Canada and France, who ventured out to the beach in Kovalam to take bath on Tuesday, and against owners and staff of five hotels in the vicinity for breaching the lockdown restrictions. However, owners of some of these hotels expressed concerns against the harsh measures being initiated against tourists and hotels, ‘which will be detrimental to revival of tourism sector in the state after the pandemic’. They also said that several tourists named in the list had not violated any lockdown rules and that hotels were even spending from their own pockets to accommodate them during the lockdown period. According to police, the foreign tourists were seen taking bath as a group in Kovalam around 7am and were spotted by the lifeguards. “We have also initiated steps to collect CCTV camera footages, including from those installed in hotels, as part of the probe,” said Kovalam CI Anilkumar. The case has been registered invoking various provisions under the Kerala Epidemic Diseases ordinance. Meanwhile, a top tourism official said it was up to the police to take any legal action required for violating lockdown rules. “Prima facie, there was an offence committed by the tourists, which we had to report to the police after being alerted by our tourism information officer stationed at Kovalam,” the official said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/thiruvananthapuram/16-foreign-tourists-booked-for-lockdown-violation/articleshow/75167280.cms||---
April 16, 2020||Bengaluru||Bengaluru: ‘Dad dead’ lie got him past cops, but not coronavirus||BENGALURU: A 26-year-old construction worker, who rode his two-wheeler from Hindupur in Andhra Pradesh to Bengaluru, getting past police checkposts by allegedly lying that his father had died, has tested positive for Covid-19 and is being treated at Rajiv Gandhi Institute of Chest Diseases (RGICD). The boy’s father – very much alive – has also been quarantined at Sir CV Raman General Hospital in Indiranagar since he is now a primary contact of a positive patient. When BBMP health officials questioned the youth he was evasive and vague on details but came clean when the police got involved. Officials are now tracing his contacts. He told officials he might have contracted the virus in a Hindupur market. The youth left Hindupur early on Monday and arrived in Bengaluru – 103km – away at around 9.30am. He told police who stopped him at several places en route that his father had died of cancer and he had to rush home for the last rites. At his home in Halagevaderahalli, Rajarajeshwarinagar, Bengaluru, he spent his time with his father, mother, brother, sister and her one-year-old daughter, watched movies and also stepped out to buy provisions from a nearby grocer. That afternoon, the boy took his father to a nursing home near Race Course Road for a routine check-up for diabetes. “While his dad was being checked, the youth suffered bouts of severe cough and experienced discomfort in breathing. When he told doctors at the nursing home of his symptoms, they asked him to rush to RGICD,” a senior BBMP official told TOI. At RGICD, the youth’s throat swab samples were collected and by Wednesday he was declared positive for Covid-19. Once, the confirmation came, BBMP health officials swung into action, putting in place containment measures as also tracing his contacts. Officials have sealed off Halagevaderahalli, which has a population of 750 people and 1,300 homes. Twenty-five teams are monitoring the entire locality and conducting door-to-door visits to screen people. Five primary contacts and 10 secondary contacts are all in hospital and being monitored.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/he-spun-dad-dead-tale-to-ride-from-hindupur-to-bengaluru/articleshow/75169410.cms||Nithya Mandyam
April 16, 2020||Ahmedabad||With 88 new cases, city’s tally now at 450||Ahmedabad: In 24 hours, the Ahmedabad Municipal Corporation (AMC) screened more than 9,000 residents of the city’s Gulbai Tekra slum, aka ‘Hollywood’ near LD Engineering College and discovered six Covid-19 cases. Without wasting time, the AMC decided to cluster quarantine the entire slum area. It will provide residents what they need. Another find was that of the AMC’s 1,500 sanitation workers screeened, one tested positive. One of f the 400 homeless and destitute persons tested was also found to be positive, said municipal commissioner Vijay Nehra Nehra said that after one Covid-19 case was confirmed from Gulbai Tekra on Tuesday, 20 health teams swooped down to test 9,800 residents in 24 hours. “We had come across one case we surveyed more than 9,000 people zeroed in on 206 symptomatic cases and performed 200 Covid-19 tests to identify infected people.” Nehra added that if there had been a delay many more would have been infected. Covid-19 poses a big challenge for the AMC in the 691 slum clusters in the city. Ahmedabad recorded its highest number of new Covid cases in a day with 88 on Wednesday, taking the total number of cases here to 450. According to state health authorities, the majority of these cases were reported in hotspot areas such as Dudheshwar, Panch Kuwa, Kalupur, Behrampura, Odhav, Shah-e-Alam, Naroda, Raikhad, Dariapur and Danilimda. AMC has also began rapid testing of its sanitation workers, of whom one tested positive, said Nehra. Gujarat reported a total of 127 new Covid cases on Wednesday, taking the state’s tally to 766. This means Ahmedabad now accounts for 59% of the Covid-19 cases in the state. The state also reported five deaths, with three from Ahmedabad – a 45-year-old woman at Civil, a 65-year-old woman at UN Mehta Hospital and a 55-year-old woman at SVP Hospital.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/with-88-new-cases-citys-tally-now-at-450/articleshow/75169928.cms||---
April 16, 2020||Delhi||Buildings older than 30 years to be checked in Delhi||NEW DELHI: The two mild tremors experienced in the past few days have once again highlighted the capital’s need for making buildings earthquake-safe for which the integrated retrofitting and structural strengthening policy has been long delayed. Senior officials from South Delhi Municipal Corporation (SDMC) said that when the lockdown is lifted, buildings older than 30 years would have to get a safety audit done by a structural engineer. The audit policy is being formulated due to an ongoing court case in which structural integrity of buildings across Delhi in case of an earthquake is being assessed. “The policy was being finalised, but was put on hold due to the novel coronavirus outbreak. Initially, a 30-year limit will be put up for a mandatory security audit of buildings. A public notice will be issued in this regard,” an official said. SDMC will be empaneling 500 structural engineers for the safety plan. “People can approach them for carrying out an audit and submit the safety certificate to the corporation. The engineer will either declare the building safe or recommend alterations and strengthening measures. We already have a pool of such engineers, which will be expanded in the coming months,” said the official. An official, who was part of the consultative process, said that if the buildings are found wanting in the audit, retrofitting and strengthening steps would be recommended. “For this, a notice will be issued to the owner. Failure to act will result in legal action,” he added. A senior engineer said that buildings older than 30 years are comparatively more at risk. “New buildings usually fall within a couple of years if they have structural faults. If the structure survives a decade, it is considered safe for a long term and only natural calamities or carelessness can bring it down,” he added. Another civic official said that both the earthquakes were very mild and the city would not be impacted by tremors measuring lower than five on the Richter scale. “We are sitting atop the Muradabad fault line. Delhi falls in the second highest category among the vulnerable areas after some Himalayan regions, such as Uttarakhand,” he added. The safety audit will be a Herculean task as the three corporations collectively have only 74 structural engineers, whereas there are more than 32 lakh buildings in the capital. Over 45,000 buildings are added every year. The Tejendra Khanna committee, which was set up in 2006 to look at unauthorised construction and misuse of premises, had found that 70-80% structures violated building bylaws.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/buildings-older-than-30-years-to-be-checked/articleshow/75169938.cms||Paras Singh
April 16, 2020||Aurangabad||SCR starts ‘Jai Kisan’ special freight trains||Aurangabad:The South Central Railway (SCR) has started a unique concept of running ‘Jai Kisan’ special freight trains to ensure speedy delivery of grains to different parts of the country. As part of the initiative, two freight trains loaded from two different destinations will be clubbed at the nearest junction point and then moved as a single train up to the common junction point of the destination stations. SCR public relations officer Ch Rakesh said that the ‘Jai Kisan’ trains will take advantage of the path availability due to non-running of passenger carrying trains. “In normal circumstances, one freight train containing 42 covered wagons loaded with grains carry around 2,600 tonnes of weight. But in the new concept, two freight trains means having 84 covered wagons with 5,200 tonnes capacity grains will be moved in a single path,” he said. SCR authorities said that the ‘Jai Kisan trains’ will drastically reduce the journey time of the freight trains to reach destinations and will serve the purpose of quick delivery of grains during the current lockdown. As per official observation, these new trains have registered an average speed of 44 kmph, fulfilling the objective of speedy movement of the essential commodities. Before starting new trains, SCR has loaded a total of 160 freight trains containing food grains weighing over 4.38 lakh tonnes and transported to different parts of the country. SCR general manager Gajanan Mallya said the efforts of officers and staff for introducing the Jai Kisan special freight trains will reduce the running time of the essential commodities during the critical time arising out of Covid-19. “These trains will transport essential items faster than usual, which is the need of the hour,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/scr-starts-jai-kisan-special-freight-trains/articleshow/75168959.cms||---
April 16, 2020||Goa||With markets closed, fish being sold on streets in Goa||CALANGUTE: As the fish markets are closed, fish is now being sold along the roadside by the traditional fishermen at different locations in Calangute and Candolim. Traditional fishermen, who are otherwise busy with beach shacks and water sports, are venturing into the sea for fishing during the lockdown. This week, the fish is being sold at reasonable rates as compared to last week. A portion of four mackerels were being sold for Rs 200, while a portion of medium sized prawns was also being sold for Rs 200. Kingfish was available with the prices varying as per the size. A portion of around four to five large slices of kingfish were priced between Rs 600-800. However, sources said that the demand for fish has been sluggish as not many people are leaving their homes, and restaurants, barring a few, are closed.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/with-mkts-closed-fish-being-sold-on-streets/articleshow/75169946.cms||---
April 16, 2020||Thiruvananthapuram||Kerala, Tamil Nadu differ over listing Covid-19 death||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM: Ambiguity in the protocol of listing patients, who travelled to other states for treatment, has led to the non-inclusion of a Covid-19 patient from Palakkad in the list maintained by Kerala and Tamil Nadu. The person died in Coimbatore. Tamil Nadu government officials are claiming that since he came from Palakkad to Coimbatore for treatment, he couldn’t be included in their state’s records. However, state health department is not ready to account his death since ‘he became positive while being treated at a Coimbatore hospital and died there’. This logic was not applied when a 71-year-old resident of Mahe died of Covid-19 in Kannur last week. Health department didn’t record the death in Kerala’s list and the case was included in Puduchchery’s list as the man from Mahe had reached Kannur only for treatment. Though he was originally included in the list of positive patients in Kannur, it was later rectified by removing his name. The man from Palakkad went to Coimbatore for treatment on April 3 and he tested positive on April 8. Following this, his family was quarantined at Palakkad government hospital. He died on April 10 in Coimbatore and was cremated near Athupalam in Coimbatore that day. The man with acute breathing and renal problems had a cardiac arrest at the hospital. His samples tested positive twice. The man was running a hardware shop in Palakkad, residing there with his immediate relatives. "The protocol for people who are travelling to other states for treatment and getting affected there has to be verified," said a senior official about the situation and why the man’s death was not accounted in state. As per the official version, only two deaths were recorded in state due to Covid-19. The first one occurred in Ernakulam and the second in Thiruvananthapuram. Tamil Nadu authorities made it clear that the man would have to be counted in the list of deceased in Kerala as he lived in Palakkad with relatives and reached Coimbatore only for treatment. The question – why Kerala adopted a contradicting stand in the death of Mahe and Palakkad residents – was not answered by health minister KK Shailaja and health secretary Dr Rajan Khobragade at the time of going to press.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/thiruvananthapuram/kerala-tamil-nadu-differ-over-listing-covid-19-death/articleshow/75167331.cms||---
April 16, 2020||Aurangabad||Had faith in doctors, says city’s 2nd recovered patient||Aurangabad: “I had faith in my immune system as well as the doctors. I knew I could beat any disease. Such a belief worked,” said city’s second Covid-19 recovered patient on Wednesday. The 59-year-old woman had tested positive around a fortnight ago and was discharged from the state-run hospital after recovery. It is the second case from Aurangabad, where a woman in her 50s has recovered from the infection. Sunil Gaikwad, the doctor supervising the patient, said that both tests of the woman showed negative in the stipulated time period, following which she was discharged from the hospital. “The woman needed oxygen supply during the first five days of her treatment, but started improving thereafter. She received treatment as per the protocol defined by the government. We conducted a CT scan and ECG before releasing the patient and all investigations were normal,” he said. The case was unique in nature, as the woman’s husband had a travel history to Delhi but he tested negative along with closed relatives. “It is still a mystery to me as to how I developed the infection without having any travel history. However, it was encouraging sign that my husband did not test positive,” she said. Visibly jubilant after her recovery from the disease, the woman said she spent her time reading books in the hospital. “I read a couple of books. All staff was very caring and always gave me confidence that I would be free from the infection,” she said. Aurangabad did not report any fresh confirmed cases of Covid-19 till Wednesday evening. Till Wednesday, the city had 25 positive patients, including one death and two cured patients.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/had-faith-in-doctors-says-citys-2nd-recovered-patient/articleshow/75169007.cms||---
April 16, 2020||Goa||High humidity pushes minimum temperature to 2.6 above normal||PANAJI: The India meteorological department (IMD), Panaji, recorded a minimum temperature of 27.5 degrees celsius, 2.6 degrees above normal, as people experienced some discomfort on the warmest night of the season so far. The wind direction contributed to the rise in temperature. “Surface winds were southerly from early morning itself. These brought a lot of moisture to surface level and caused humidity,” Rahul M, scientist at IMD, said. Humidity recorded by the Panaji centre on Wednesday morning was 87%, 11% above normal. On Tuesday evening, the level was 71%, just 4% above normal. During the past few days, night temperatures have been fluctuating between 26 and 27 degrees Celsius. After a warm winter, especially the warmest December month in five decades, as also the hottest February in a decade, there was some relief in March. In April, the days have been appreciably hot with the maximum temperature hovering below 35 degrees so far, less than 2 degrees above normal. But this is considered more or less in the normal range. But nights have been warmer in the past few days due to cloudy conditions. On Wednesday evening, IMD issued a nowcast, stating that rain is likely in Sanguem and Canacona.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/high-humidity-pushes-minimum-temperature-to-2-6-above-normal/articleshow/75169961.cms||---
April 16, 2020||Bhopal||Madhya Pradesh’s migrant workers to get Rs 1,000 in bank accounts||BHOPAL: Alarmed by the huge crowd of migrating workers gathering in other states, ruling BJP has asked party MLAs to ensure proper supply of ration and food to migrant workers who are stranded outside Madhya Pradesh. The state government has also announced that it would deposit Rs1,000 in their bank accounts. Chief minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan on Monday discussed the situation amid the Covid-19 crisis with BJP state president V D Sharma, organisation general secretary Suhas Bhagat, MPs, MLAs and district heads through video conferencing and asked them to help the government collect names, mobile numbers and bank account details of workers from Madhya Pradesh stranded outside. “We will deposit Rs1,000 in the bank account of each workers so as to provide them immediate relief during the ongoing lockdown. They can withdraw the money at their own place and utilise it during this crisis period," said Chouhan.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/mps-migrant-workers-to-get-rs-1000-in-bank-accounts/articleshow/75169017.cms||---
April 16, 2020||Goa||Goa: Focus on health workers, agriculture operations at review meet||PANAJI: All travel permits and permissions granted by state authorities have been automatically extended till May 3, said the State Executive Committee (SEC). The SEC has also decided to allow employees who provide healthcare services to travel on the special Kadamba Transport Corporation (KTC) buses which are meant for government staff. The agriculture department is in the process of issuing travel permits for all personnel and labourers involved in agriculture activities, in view of the harvesting and sowing season for the next crop. “The SEC directed that all the permissions and travel permits issued by district collectors or any other delegated agencies, shall automatically stand extended till May 3 with the same terms and conditions,” the government said in a statement. Given that many healthcare services are being provided by private establishments, the SEC decided to permit these healthcare workers to use the KTC buses based on valid photo identity cards. The SEC meeting was chaired by chief secretary Parimal Rai at Altinho with principal secretary for science and technology Puneet Goel, transport secretary S K Bhandari and revenue secretary Sanjay Kumar in attendance. At the meeting, the SEC asked the agriculture secretary to ensure collection of horticulture produce directly from the farmers, through the Goa Horticulture Corporation. Secretary for health Nila Mohanan informed the SEC that all the 219 health sub-centres would be operational by the weekend.  The SEC directed the civil supplies department to prepare a mechanism to provide rice, wheat and pulses to above poverty line ration card holders at cost price, from the additional stock which the department has picked up.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/focus-on-health-workers-agri-ops-at-review-meet/articleshow/75169964.cms||---
April 16, 2020||India||India slams US body for fake news, says stop communalising war on Covid-19||India on Wednesday slammed the United States Commission on International Religious Freedom (USCIRF) for spreading false media reports after the US body expressed concern over reports that Hindu and Muslim Covid patients were being segregated into different hospital wards in Gujarat.  "As if its peremptory commentary on religious freedom in India is not enough, the USCIRF is now spreading misguided reports on the professional medical protocols followed to deal with spread of Covid-19 in India," said MEA spokesperson Anurag Srivastava in a statement late on Wednesday. The @USCIRF must stop adding religious colour to our national goal of fighting the COVID 19 pandemic. https://t.co/CsdGplDWmL— Anurag Srivastava (@MEAIndia) 1586972407000 USCIRF describes itself as an independent, bipartisan US federal government commission dedicated to defending the universal right to freedom of religion or belief abroad. "It must stop adding religious colour to our national goal of fighting the pandemic and distract from larger efforts. No segregation is being done in civil hospitals on the basis of religion, as clarified by the Gujarat government," Srivastava added. More on Covid-19Coronavirus pandemic: Complete Coverage21-day lockdown: What will stay open and what won'tHow to quarantine yourself at homeTrust the newspaper for your daily verified newsReacting to report in a daily, USCIRF had tweeted that it was concerned with reports of "Hindu & Muslim patients separated into separate hospital wards in #Gujarat". "Such actions only help to further increase ongoing stigmatisation of Muslims in #India and exacerbate false rumors of Muslims spreading Covid-19," it had said.  Besides MEA, Prasar Bharti New Service also slammed the US body for "peddling fake news". "Myth: USCIRF says #Covid patients are being segregated on religious lines in a Gujarat hospital, citing a news report. Reality: Unfortunate that this claim is based on a news item, already found to be fake and denied by the state government," it said. Patients are kept in different wards based on their medical condition, severity of the symptoms and age, purely bas… https://t.co/cS2429Aeti— GujHFWDept (@GujHFWDept) 1586936691000Earlier, the Gujarat government said, " The health department of Gujarat has clarified that no segregation is being done on the basis of religion. Corona patients are being treated based on symptoms, severity, etc, and according to the recommendations of doctors".||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/india-slams-us-body-for-fake-news-says-stop-communalising-war-on-covid-19/articleshow/75171355.cms||---
April 16, 2020||Salem||Rs 500 fine for stepping out without masks||Salem: The Salem municipal commissioner (SMC) R Sadheesh warned that, Rs 500 fine will be imposed on anyone who fails to wear face mask in public places. “Strict action will be initiated from Thursday onwards,” he said. Meanwhile, the corporation officials sealed two bakeries in Suramangalam zone for selling tea and coffee inside the shops. “One of the shops was functioning on Steel Plant main road near Suramangalam and Kurunguchavadi,” the commissioner added. The commissioner strictly warned the bakeries are not allowed to sell tea and coffee inside the shop. “Only take away or parcels will be allowed,” he explained.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/salem/rs-500-fine-for-stepping-out-without-masks/articleshow/75169987.cms||---
April 16, 2020||Salem||Mentally ill man kills father||Salem: A 75-year-old man was allegedly killed by his son, who suffers from mental illness, near Mettur in Salem district on Tuesday night.The Karumalaikudal police identified the deceased as M Pachaiannan, a mason, of Mottur Kattuvalavu near Mettur. He was living with his wife Ayyammal, 68, and son Mathivanan, 35. Police said Mathivanan had been seeing a psychiatrist in Mettur for over a year. “On Tuesday night, Pachaiannan chose to sleep outside the house, while his son and wife slept inside. Suddenly, Mathivanan woke up and came out and started arguing with his father. At a point, he took a trowel and slit Pachaiannan’s throat,” a police officer said. The victim died on the spot. Ayyammal, who woke up to the noise, said she did not know why her husband and son were quarrelling .Police registered a case and have arrested Mathivanan.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/salem/mentally-ill-man-kills-father/articleshow/75169976.cms||---
April 16, 2020||Delhi||200 SDMC gardeners to help in contact tracing, disinfection drives||NEW DELHI: As the number of containment zones to fight the novel coronavirus keeps increasing in the capital, the municipal corporations are struggling to cope with the shortage of manpower on the ground. Now the South Delhi Municipal Corporation (SDMC) has deployed its gardeners as helping hands in contact tracing and disinfection drives. A health official said 200 gardeners joined the force — 50 in each zone — on Wednesday while more were likely to be roped in soon. Till now, nurses, midwives and domestic breeding checkers were being engaged, along with district surveillance officers, in tracing the contact history of each confirmed patient and isolating them. The public health department has trained 400 gardeners and 209 nala beldars (drain cleaners) as ‘disease detectives’ to trace contacts, the frontline resistance to ward off the virus spread, a spokesperson said. Nala beldars, who are kept on standby, are now disinfecting houses. “The work involves asking questions about possible contacts of a patient, checking if any of them has any symptom related to Covid-19, and asking them to self-quarantine themselves for 14 days while preparing a database. They have also been taught to take precautions during this exercise,” an official explained. As per the Centre’s order, civic surveillance teams will have to cover each house in a containment zone and also keep track of people exhibiting flu-like symptoms in the buffer zone around each sealed area. Each ‘disease detective’, who is to cover 50 houses daily, will be provided masks and gloves as protective gear. A health official said the main problem that contact tracers face was people’s resistance. “People should understand that during such an outbreak, contact tracing forms the backbone of the public health mechanism and that’s not possible without good surveillance,” he pointed out. The three corporations have so far deputed more than 5,000 workers on this job. “We are going to need more and more people as geographical areas expand with each case,” an official said. Although some sanitation workers unions are worried about being drafted into this work, an official said the confusion was triggered by a district-level order that mistakenly printed “sanitation” instead of sanitisation.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/200-sdmc-gardeners-to-help-in-contact-tracing-disinfection-drives/articleshow/75169982.cms||Paras Singh
April 16, 2020||Goa||Normal monsoon this year, but may withdraw late, says IMD||PANAJI: India Meteorological Department (IMD) on Wednesday predicted a normal monsoon for the state during the June-September period and also released new reference dates for its arrival and withdrawal. The new dates indicate whether the monsoon would be longer or shorter by a few days or even a week in state, but the bigger and more reassuring message was that rainfall is likely to be 100% of the long period average. “Monsoon 2020 is going to have normal rainfall – 100% of what the long period average (LPA) for the entire country as a whole,” IMD said. As per new reference dates, the onset of monsoon for Goa remains the same as on June 7, but the withdrawal date gets delayed by four days to October 14. IMD Goa scientist, Rahul MC said that the dates are based on the previous years’ data. Before this, the base data for this information was from 1901 to 1947. Now the latest data of 15 years has been taken into consideration. It’s been found that the dates are slightly different for some regions. Goa’s onset date remains unchanged despite the IMD’s reading of the state having received rain nearly two weeks late, last year. However, change in withdrawal of monsoon or onset date do not have any relation with the amount of rainfall. The 2019 monsoon is a striking example of that. The onset of monsoon was neither early nor was it the longest prevailing monsoon - since monsoon withdrew from Goa on October 16 - yet Goa had the highest quantum of rainfall in the last 50 years in that period. “In 2019, monsoon withdrew from Goa and entire country on October 16, but it wasn't the most delayed withdrawal from the whole country. In 2017, the date of complete withdrawal was October 25,” said Rahul.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/normal-monsoon-this-year-but-may-withdraw-late-says-imd/articleshow/75170021.cms||---
April 16, 2020||Dehradun||Covid-19: U’khand police to slap NSA against rumour mongers||Dehradun: Police would consider slapping National Security Act (NSA) against people spreading rumours about coronavirus that is leading to law and order problem, said state director general of police (law and order) Ashok Kumar on Wednesday. Kumar who was in Haldwani on Wednesday, took stock of the security situation at Banbhoolpura area, which has been under curfew since April 13 after thousands of people came out in the streets to protest over fake news. “Police are preventing people to come out during lockdown to contain the spread of coronavirus. If someone tries to spread any type of rumour about the crisis which can result in law and order problem, police might consider invoking NSA,” he told TOI. Since the imposition of lockdown, police have booked nearly 44 persons in Uttarakhand for spreading rumours, either through social media or by other means, he informed. Notably, the NSA empowers the central and state governments to detain a person to prevent him/her from acting in any manner against the welfare and security of the country. The suspect can be kept in jail for 12 months without any charge under the NSA. Meanwhile, Uttarakhand police have registered 1,584 cases and arrested 6,394 persons for defying lockdown orders till April 15. The accused have been booked under section 188 of Indian Penal Code (IPC) and relevant sections of Disaster Management Act. Besides, nearly 4,200 vehicles have been seized and over 17,000 drivers have been challaned for violating lockdown rules under Motor Vehicle Act. Police have collected a total penalty of Rs 81.91 lakh through challan of vehicles.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/covid-19-ukhand-police-to-slap-nsa-against-rumour-mongers/articleshow/75167390.cms||Gaurav Talwar
April 16, 2020||Goa||Sale of chicken in Panaji shops to resume from April 20: CCP||PANAJI: Chicken supply to the state may have resumed from regions free of the bird flu infection, however, poultry vendors are facing hurdles in selling their birds since the local municipality has been asking them to shut shop in the wake of the lockdown. “What is the point of resuming the import of chickens from Maharashtra if we’re not allowed to sell its meat to consumers?” a vendor from Panaji asked. On Tuesday, when he opened his shutters to sell chicken in the market, the local municipal authorities demanded that he shut shop since he was in violation of the lockdown. The same was experienced by another butcher in Bicholim on Wednesday. “We are merely following the collector’s orders. We have been told not to allow open sale of commodities,” Panaji mayor, Uday Madkaikar said. The traders who are attempting to resume business have been instructed to only carry out home delivery of chicken and refrain from entertaining customers at their shops. The Corporation of the City of Panaji (CCP) said that traders will be permitted to sell commodities from their shops only from April 20 onwards. “The new guidelines state that shops selling certain essential goods will be allowed to operate from Monday,” Madkaikar said. The list of items includes poultry besides fruits, vegetables, dairy, meat and fish among others. Following the Avian Influenza (bird flu) outbreak in chickens in west Kodryathur and Kozhikode in Kerala and Devenagere in Mysore, Karnataka, Goa had ordered a ban on chicken from the two affected states. However, the ban was relaxed on the condition that chicken supply would come from other states. The total requirement of Goa is approximately 40 tonne of chicken per day. Of this about 30 tons are sourced from Karnataka and the rest from Maharashtra and Goa.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/sale-of-chicken-in-shops-to-resume-from-april-20-ccp/articleshow/75169978.cms||Nida Sayed
April 16, 2020||Goa||Firms in Goa producing medical supply to get funding||PANAJI: With funds drying up for small and medium enterprises, the Small Industries Development Bank of India (SIDBI) has plans to provide emergency working capital of up to Rs 2 crore to MSMEs. The loans will be disbursed within 48 hours and are for confirmed government orders for medical equipment required to combat the coronavirus pandemic. SIDBI’s Assistance to Facilitate Emergency (SAFE) and SAFE Plus loans are being offered to industries at an interest rate of 5% and are collateral free. Processing fees and prepayment charges for the SAFE loans have also been waived off. “The scheme has been launched to provide financial assistance to MSMEs engaged in manufacturing of hand sanitisers, masks, gloves, head gear, bodysuits, shoe covers, ventilators, syringe pumps, portable X-ray machines, endotracheal tubes, suction tubes, oxygen cylinders, rubber sheets and for testing labs,” SIDBI assistant general manager Pranava Piyush said. MSMEs that qualify for the loan can utilise the funds to purchase any equipment, assets for manufacturing or services and to purchase raw material for production. The funds are being offered only to already registered MSMEs which have confirmed orders from the government or government agencies.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/firms-producing-medical-supply-to-get-funding/articleshow/75169970.cms||---
April 16, 2020||Salem||Covid-19 lockdown: Thirteen booked for gathering in mosque in Krishnagiri||KRISHNAGIRI: Thirteen people were arrested in Krishnagiri town for gathering in a mosque for prayers on Tuesday. Based on a tip-off, a police team led by Krishnagiri DSP P Kumar reached the mosque and conducted an inquiry. “We found 12 people in the mosque,” the DSP said. “They had not obtained any permission for prayers and had gathered illegally.” All the 12 people were booked under IPC Sections 188 (disobedience to order promulgated by public servant) and 269 (negligent act likely to spread infection of disease). One more person entered the mosque when the police team was interrogating others. He was also booked under similar sections. One more person came to the mosque for prayer when police officials inquiring with others. The police officials detained him and initiated inquiry. During inquiry they came to know that, the persons has been under home quarantine in the same area for the last 10 days. “The person had attended Tablighi Jamaat meeting in New Delhi,” the official said, adding that, the district administration has recently identified him and asked him to be in the house until further orders. The police also have arrested him and register the case against him.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/salem/thirteen-booked-for-gathering-in-mosque/articleshow/75170000.cms||---
April 16, 2020||Goa||Fruits get dearer as vendors grapple with transport and storage issues||PANAJI: The prices of fruits have skyrocketed with vendors blaming the same on the supply chain market. The price tag on the humble banana, which was selling at Rs 40-50 per dozen until last month, prior to the lockdown, has shot up to Rs 70 per dozen at small vendors across Panaji, while a supermarket in the state capital is selling the same quantity at Rs 120. “Earlier, fruits would be brought into Goa on interstate buses. Now, we are forced to rent vehicles and obtain the a permit from the collector to bring in fruits from the neighbouring states,” said fruit vendor Kasimsab Mokashi. Vendors like him have acquired permits from the district collector so that they can seamlessly carry out their business. They have been discouraged from openly selling the fruits at their shops at Panaji market and asked to adopt home delivery instead. “We have also been warned not to overprice fruits, or else our permits will be cancelled,” said Mokashi. “The rates we’re selling the fruits at are based on the current market price,” fruit vendor, Imam Shaikh said. Owing to the high prices, shoppers prefer not to purchase fruits. Besides, in this time where citizens are struggling to purchase basic vegetables, groceries and milk, fruits like mangoes and avocadoes are considered a luxury. “Fruits are perishable and must be sold within a certain number of days or else they get spoiled and have to be discarded. Due to the poor response, we collect the soft fruits at the end of the day and feed them to the stray cattle that are starving due to the lockdown,” Shaikh said. Some vendors however haven’t been as lucky, and lost stock worth lakhs. Nisar Nandihaldi, who owns a stall in the Panaji municipal market complex lost all his fruits after the municipal corporation decided to lock the building’s gates during the lockdown. “With all our fruits trapped inside, every single one of them went rotten,” he said. Others who managed to salvage their stores of fruits distributed them among friends and family, to prevent wastage at a time when food is scarce.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/fruits-get-dearer-as-vendors-grapple-with-transport-and-storage-issues/articleshow/75169990.cms||Nida Sayed
April 16, 2020||Goa||Goa CM visits Padocem, Hivre village gets water||VALPOI/BICHOLIM: Chief minister Pramod Sawant visited the Padocem water treatment plant on Wednesday to review the water supply problem in the area. Villagers in the vicinity shave been affected as pumps at the plant have been out of order. During the visit, it was found that the present pumps were outdated. The chief minister told officials to install new pumps if the existing pumps could not be repaired at the earliest. On Wednesday, TOI had reported that residents of Bicholim and far-flung areas of Sattari and Pernem talukas have been facing severe water shortage for several weeks. Meanwhile, assistant PWD engineer, Sattari taluka, Prashant Gaude went to Hivre village on Wednesday, which is facing water shortage, too. Gaude and his team inspected the water pump and pipelines. Gaude told TOI that he assured villagers of resolving the problem in the coming days and said that water was released for 1.5 hours on Wednesday. “People claim they get water for just 10-15 minutes. From Thursday they will get water for 1.5 hours,” he said||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/cm-visits-padocem-hivre-village-gets-water/articleshow/75170006.cms||---
April 16, 2020||Erode||Erode farmer gives away 7 tonnes of vegetables free||ERODE: Actions speak louder than words. A farmer from Andhiyur taluk in Erode district is quietly helping poor and the needy with free vegetables reared in his farm. G S Mathesh, the 36-year-old farmer from Alampalayam village near Andhiyur, owns 10 acre of farm land in Udayarpalayam village in Karnataka. He had cultivated vegetables such as garlic, tomato, cabbage, ladies finger and beetroot in his land, and was planning to harvest them in the third week of March. However, the lockdown shattered his business plans. “Due to the lockdown, I could not sell my vegetables, I was looking for an alternative,” Mathesh said. The farmer heard from villagers that grocers and traders had increased the prices of vegetables owing to the lockdown. “Many people were using the lockdown to make money... I decided otherwise,” Mathesh said. The farmer decided to help the needy and poor people in his village by giving them vegetables grown in his land for free. He shared his idea to his family members and convinced them about the noble cause. With their support, Mathesh harvested vegetables in his farm land. He travels nearly 110 km from Alampalayam to Udayarpalayam village in Karnataka to bring his vegetables in a truck. “I have been travelling everyday to bring vegetables from my farm,” he said. Mathesh said he has distributed nearly 7 tonne of vegetables worth Rs 8 lakh. “I have started selling vegetables from March 27 onwards,” he said, adding that, he will continue distributing vegetables for free till the lockdown ends.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/erode/erode-farmer-distributes-rs-8-lakh-worth-vegetables-free-of-cost-to-fellow-villagers/articleshow/75170011.cms||---
April 16, 2020||Dehradun||Please help pay salaries for staff, provide other relief: U’khand hoteliers to govt||Nainital/Mussoorie: Hoteliers in the two premier hill stations of Uttarakhand — Nainital and Mussoorie — have appealed to the state government seeking relief in the wake of the ongoing Covid-19 crisis which has disrupted their businesses. The Nainital Hotels and Restaurants’ Association (NHRA) has asked the government to defer the installment payments of loans for a period of at least two weeks as well as slashing of GST rates as a relief measure for the tourism industry. Besides, they have sought assistance in payment of staff salaries. Hoteliers from Mussoorie have also written to the chief minister seeking relief for the hospitality industry. The letter written by the hoteliers of Nainital is addressed to Indu Pandey and Bhupesh Tiwari (chairman and member secretary respectively) of the committee appointed by the state government to provide relief measures to the industries. The letter asks the government to waive off the fixed charges included in the electricity bills for the lockdown period and to defer the annual increase in the water bill for at least five years as an additional measure to help the industry. “The electric charges include a “fixed charge” component, which is like a fixed rental. This should be exempted for the lockdown period, as has already been done by the Uttar Pradesh government,” the letter says. Speaking to TOI, Ved Sah, owner of Alka Hotel in Nainital and PRO for the hotel association said that the tourism industry has virtually collapsed because of the Covid-19 pandemic and the hotels as well as restaurants will continue to face the brunt of the lockdown even after it is lifted. “We had shut our hotels around mid-March and since then, the revenues have only plummeted. Although many other industries will revive once the lockdown is lifted, the tourism industry will continue to suffer because people will not be willing to travel for a long time because of the scare of the spread of virus and the lack of disposable income,” Sah said. The hoteliers’ association also said that since their staff is not working, the Employees’ State Insurance Corporation (ESIC) should be directed to pay their salaries. “For the staff members that are beyond the coverage limit of the ESIC, the establishments may be allowed to pay 25% of the salary and the balance may be paid by government agencies like EPF,” the letter says. Meanwhile, Mussoorie-based hotelier and president of Hotels and Restaurant Association of Uttarakhand in his appeal to the CM, said that with “zero cash flows,” hoteliers would find it difficult to pay salaries and wages to the staff and hence the government must bear the salaries during the lockdown and also six months post the lockdown. He also sought deferment of loan installments for hospitality industry for the next six months and also waiver of interest during this period, relaxation in GST slabs, deferring increasing water and sewerage charges for 5 years, relaxation in fixed charges of electricity bills and deferring payments and freezing minimum wages for at least 2 years. Similar demands were raised by other hoteliers from Mussoorie who are worried that due to heavy losses, several hoteliers might find it difficult to sustain their businesses. “The government needs to provide a relief package to the hoteliers to tide over their losses. We would request the state government to subsidise the salary of hotel staff for six to nine months at least in order to alleviate the burden on hoteliers,” said Ajay Bhargava, vice-president of Mussoorie Hotels Association.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/please-help-pay-salaries-for-staff-provide-other-relief-ukhand-hoteliers-to-govt/articleshow/75167462.cms||Prashant Jha
April 16, 2020||Mangaluru||Pig farms suffer due to lockdown||Mangaluru: The lockdown has put pig farm owners in trouble, due to the unavailability of food waste generated from hotels, wheat, rice bran and oil cakes, the major sources of food for pigs. Philip D’Souza and his son Primus D’Souza of Prince Caterers from Neermarga, who rear pigs for catering orders, have now been forced to slaughter the animals and sell the pork at a lower price. “We have around 200 pigs, and a majority of their feed comes from hotels. It has become difficult for us to feed them due to the lockdown. We rear pigs exclusively for catering purposes. We had never supplied raw pork to the public in the last 25 years. However, the current situation has forced us to slaughter the animals and sell the pork at a cheaper rate,” said Primus. Primus has been running to several places — during the morning hours, when the lockdown is eased — to collect feed for his pigs. “We are trying to collect rice bran and oil cakes from wherever possible. This apart, we are feeding the pigs rice, which is economically not viable,” Primus said, adding that the supply is not enough. Due to the high demand for pork, Dakshina Kannada has several pig farms. The industry largely depends of leftover food from hotels and produce thrown away at vegetable markets. With hotels remaining closed for the past many weeks, and an inadequate supply of vegetables, stakeholders have resorted to mass slaughter of pigs, and are forced to sell pork at a cheap price. “We have around 50 pigs. As there is a paucity of feed, we had to slaughter many pigs,” said a pig farm owner from Moodbidri.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mangaluru/pig-farms-suffer-due-to-lockdown/articleshow/75161064.cms||Kevin Mendonsa
April 16, 2020||Goa||Casinos get 6-month extension to stay in the Mandovi||PANAJI: The state cabinet on Wednesday gave the offshore casinos six months’ extension to continue operating in the Mandovi, as it is yet to identify an alternative site to which the vessels can be shifted. In the past couple of years, the state government has been granting several extensions to the six offshore casinos, allowing them to continue operating in the river. Reacting to the decision of the state government, Panaji MLA Antanasio ‘Babush’ Monserrate said that it is very clear that the Mandovi river is not the permanent place for the casinos as the government has only given them a six month-extension. “I will continue to pursue the matter of shifting the offshore casinos out of the Mandovi, as was promised to the people of Panaji,” he said. Ports minister Michael Lobo called for a clear policy to govern the offshore casinos, on the lines of what former chief minister Manohar Parrikar had planned. Parrikar had initiated the framing of a casino policy, and intended to move the offshore casinos to land at Mopa. After his death, the government is yet to finalise the policy. In his manifesto during the Panaji bypolls in 2019, Monserrate said he would remove the offshore casinos from the river within 100 days of him getting elected as the Panaji MLA. The government has identified a location along the coast at Verem, near Reis Magos, and one casino operator had agreed to shift there, but it fell through due to opposition from Saligao MLA Jayesh Salgaonkar.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/casinos-get-6-mth-extension-to-stay-in-the-mandovi/articleshow/75306446.cms||---
April 16, 2020||Kolkata||‘Sensitive’ zones in Kolkata get fresh covers||KOLKATA: Restricting entry to city’s major markets to reaching food to people under poverty line: these are a few strategies that the KMC and Kolkata Police will adopt to conduct joint operations in neighbourhoods, now being regarded as high-risk Covid-19 zones in Kolkata. The Union health ministry on Wednesday indicated they had identified Kolkata, North 24-Parganas, East Midnapore and Howrah as places to have reported more cases than elsewhere in Bengal. The state government has further mapped the disease spread to micro-clusters in these “sensitive” zones and already introduced containment measures. A KMC market department official on Wednesday said department officials and cops would man entry points at major markets in those areas—Ultadanga, Maniktala, New Market, Gariahat, Lansdowne, Lake, Baghajatin being some of them—to ensure no crowding took place. Besides, at some major markets with multiple entry points, only two would stay open for public use. Police also said access control would be part of this strategy. “We will not shut out any neighbourhood but we want to keep as many people from entering them as coming out of it. If required, adequate arrangements for ration will be made. Police would also resort to using drones for surveillance on a few pockets, which are being regarded as sensitive zones. By-lanes in the earmarked areas will be barricaded and cop presence at entry points will be stepped up,” an officer said. The KMC solid waste management department will intensify sanitization drive in all sensitive areas. “Large, specialized vehicles will be used for the sanitization of roads. Besides, hospitals, health centres and community halls will be disinfected as will be lanes and by-lanes that face threat,” said a KMC official. The civic body will specially focus on city’s slums for a disinfection drive and fever survey. “We will send more health workers to conduct door-to-door fever survey in sensitive areas, especially at slums,” said a KMC health department official. At least 12 localities across seven municipalities in North 24 Parganas have been under complete lockdown after these areas were identified as hotspots by the central health ministry. Nearly 15 Covid-19 cases were reported from there and as many sent to quarantine. At least four deaths have also been reported, though the expert committee set up by the state government has not confirmed them to be due to Covid. Barricades have been put up in areas, like Dum Dum, Nagerbazar, Satgachhi and Birati under North Dum Dum Municipality, Neogipara under Baranagar Municipalty and Belgharia and Rathlata under Kamarhati Municipality to restrict exit and entry of people. Madhyagram and Michaelnagar under Madhyamgram Municipality, where a councillor and his driver tested positive, have reportedly been sealed, along with places in Bhatpara and Harba. “These places are under strict monitoring by police who are constantly patrolling. Respective civic bodies are carrying out regular sanitization of public places, like markets,” said a district official. Areas in Howrah under stricter watch include Salkia, Mallik Fatak, Shibpur and Sandhya Bazar. In addition to police patrolling, drone surveillance is being carried out. The Howrah Municipal Corporation is also carrying out regular sanitization. But apart from a few lanes in Salkia, barricades are yet to be put up in other localities. At Egra in West Midnapore—where five persons had tested positive after they attended a wedding—and Haldia, where a man contracted the virus after returning from Delhi, have also been marked sensitive areas. Markets in those places have been shut. (With inputs from Rupak Banerjee and Suman Mandal)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/sensitive-zones-get-fresh-covers/articleshow/75169170.cms||---
April 16, 2020||Delhi||Delhi schools can only collect fees on a monthly basis: Directorate of education||NEW DELHI: The directorate of education (DoE) has ordered a private school group in the capital not to demand and collect the fees from parents/students on a quarterly basis in the wake of the coronavirus crisis.“The fee must be collected on a monthly basis only. The schools should extend maximum support to the parents and provide online learning material to the students without discrimination,” the DoE stated. The order follows complaints from some parents that the schools were barring their wards from attending online classes over non-payment of fees. The parents had not paid the fees as the schools had apparently sent them an increased bill without due approval. TOI had reported about the complaint against one of the Apeejay Schools on April 11 after which National Commission for Protection of Child Rights had written to the department. The department has now invoked Disaster Management Act-2005 and Delhi Epidemic Diseases, Covid-19 Regulations-2020 to help the parents in the time of crisis. “Some parents are not in a position to pay the school fees of their wards even at the existing rates if demanded on a quarterly basis in one go. When all sections of the society are trying to help out those in need, it has been brought to our notice that APJ, private unaided school, is not only violating the provisions of Delhi School Education Act and Rules-1973 in respect of regulation of fee, but also the provisions of the Disaster Management Act-2005,” said the order issued to the group by the department. Other private schools in the city will also be issued similar instructions within a week, said an official. The department has, meanwhile, pointed out that charging fees under different new heads violates directions of the Supreme Court and orders of the DoE. The department also ordered the school group not to stop payment of salaries to its teachers in the name of non-availability of funds.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/delhi-schools-can-only-collect-fees-on-a-monthly-basis-directorate-of-education/articleshow/75170027.cms||Shradha Chettri
April 16, 2020||Chennai||How we’re getting back there||Chennai: The Centre has given an in-principle nod for reopening, in a calibrated manner, factories that have been closed and the industry is now waiting for local clearances and approvals from state governments. On Wednesday, the central government released a set of guidelines which among other things said factories could reopen but should ensure that social distancing is maintained and should not allow employees from containment areas to attend work. Senior officials from the industries department of the Tamil Nadu government said they had initiated the process to issue operational guidelines for industries by talking to other departments. “Over the next 2-3 days, operational guidelines will be in place. Thereafter, it will be left to the district collector, where the factory is located to give the final nod,” officials said. While factory heads are also keen on starting production as it will get them back to working ways besides providing gainful employment to contract and temporary workers, it isn’t an easy task. “The opening of manufacturing facilities in rural areas will provide a lot of relief to small enterprises and workers,” said Confederation of Indian Industry (CII) chairman (Tamil Nadu State Council) K Hari Thiagarajan in a statement. A spokesperson for BMW said that the company’s factory inside Mahindra City would be opened on May 3. “We have to get some parts from the port. That will happen from April 20 and we hope to resume from May 3,” the spokesperson said While some factories may restart on April 20, the issue is availability of workers. Most of them have left the city and have been staying in their native places for the past three weeks. “It will be tough for them to return as there is no public transport till May 3. Gradual increase in production is the way forward and that too with the hope that the demand will pick up,” a human resources (HR) head of a car maker told TOI. “Besides, we cannot allow employees from containment zones to come to work. We need to enumerate that. Also, we must look at other safety issues of commuting to the factory, social distancing on the shop floor and canteen. It was easy to shut down, difficult to restart by the press of a button.” There are other issues as well. “It’s not clear as of now. If OEMs open up we will need to for sure. We are continuously evaluating. Also permission from the state government is needed. We do qualify as a continuous process industry,” Satish Sharma, president, Apollo Tyres, said. Several other industries including automobile factories such as Ford, Hyundai and TVS Motor in Hosur are all in wait and watch mode, awaiting instructions from the state government. Tech companies too are awaiting guidelines from the state’s IT department.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/how-were-getting-back-there/articleshow/75170031.cms||---
April 16, 2020||Aurangabad||Entering distto be tougherfor those from hotspots||Aurangabad: People entering Aurangabad district from coronavirus red zones will be subjected to detailed screening while strict action, like registering offences, is being planned against those arriving without clearance from the authorities concerned.The instructions, issued by the district administration on Wednesday, will be implemented from Thursday. As per the instructions, all those coming from districts or places marked as red zone, including government or private ambulances, will have to take clearance from their district authorities. “The district’s borders are already sealed. However, people are found to be trying to enter the district on the pretext of some emergency. Now, there are stricter directions that unless people have valid pass from authorities, like police unit commander or district collector, they will not be allowed to enter, whatever the reason may be,” district collector Uday Chaudhary told TOI. The district magistrate said that his office has so far issued only 25 passes, that too after screening the applicant’s health and that he expects other authorities in other districts to do the same while issuing travel passes.Aurangabad rural superintendent of police Mokshada Patil said that any consequences or inconvenience arising because of not having valid pass, responsibility will be on the commuter.As per the categorisation done by the state government, districts with the highest number of Covid-19 cases have been marked as red zones while districts that have reported fewer cases come in the yellow zones. The remaining districts with zero cases of Covid-19 have been marked as green zones.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/entering-distto-be-tougherfor-those-from-hotspots/articleshow/75169155.cms||Mohammed Akhef
April 16, 2020||Mumbai||On ground too, it takes a lot to keep a plane fit and ready to fly||Aircraft are designed to fly. Which is why, when they are grounded for weeks together, different parts of the flying machines start whining. The workload goes up, especially for the undercarriage that rests on wheels. When life was normal, an A320 aircraft for instance would be at work 14-15 hours a day, flying passengers to domestic destinations. But after the coronavirus rendered it temporarily jobless, its tyres were suddenly left to bear, 24/7, the over-75,000kg that the behemoth weighs. If parked in one position for days together, the tyres tend to develop a flat spot. “To avoid that, the aircraft should be moved every three days. Towing tractors move them forward and backward and rotate the tyres so that a different point is left in contact with the ground,’’ said a senior AI engineer requesting anonymity. Indian carriers operate a fleet of around 650 aircraft; of this, a few have been operating charter flights and repatriation flights. In the past three weeks then, tow tractor operators across airports would have moved the rest, say about 620 aircraft, to and fro at least seven times each to prevent flat spots. With the lockdown extended, the aircraft will need to “stretch their legs” till May 3. Keeping an aircraft flying is work, but keeping it on the ground is work too. “With the grounding, the workload of aircraft engineers and technicians has only gone down by 35-40%,’’ says the engineer, listing the maintenance routine around an aircraft, even when it’s left parked for the long haul. Last week, the US aviation regulator ordered airlines to switch their Boeing 787 Dreamliner aircraft on and off every 51 days to prevent “potentially catastrophic failure scenarios’’ in the future. For all other aircraft, once every month the engine needs to be switched on and left to run for about 15 minutes—to allow oil to wash through the engine parts and prevent corrosion. Then there is the “A check’’, which for an A320 for instance, has to be carried out every 90 days or after 750 flying hours. “It takes about 250-400 manhours to complete an A-check,’’ said an A320 engineer, adding that an airline fleet goes through time-bound checks, irrespective of whether flying is banned or not. D Anand Bhaskar, CEO of Air Works, a major aircraft maintenance, repair and overhaul company, said that they are currently maintaining and preserving aircraft as per a guidance of “parking period of less than 1 month and in flight-ready condition”. “If the parking period is further extended, we may need to perform additional tasks on engines— to protect the external surface from climate conditions; the engine fuel system, to avoid corrosion and contamination in pumps, gear box, etc; the fuel system, to avoid microbiological contamination; landing gear, to prevent corrosion and ensure smooth operation; water and toilet system, to avoid formation of contamination, corrosion, and to ensure cleanliness” said Bhaskar. Besides, all open ports exposed to the atmosphere have to be blanketed to prevent deterioration due to environmental factors and to discourage birds from building their nests, he added. An Air India engineer said: “The maintenance plan is followed rigorously, else the regulator might cancel the airworthiness certificate granted to the aircraft.’’ After all, unlike a car or a bus, an aircraft cannot be halted and pulled aside if it develops a problem mid-air.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/on-ground-too-it-takes-a-lot-to-keep-a-plane-fit-and-ready-to-fly/articleshow/75170035.cms||Manju V
April 16, 2020||Aurangabad||Coaching centre gives food to 200 aspirants||Aurangabad: City-based coaching institute, Sambodhi Competitive Exam Training Centre, took the responsibility of feeding 200 candidates who had come to the city for a crash course followed by the preliminary and subordinate exams that were supposed to be held on April 26 and May 10. Due to the lockdown, they were left stranded. The institute sponsored by the Dr Babasaheb Ambedkar Research and Training Insititute, Pune, came to the rescue of aspirants preparing for competitive exams. Prior to the outbreak of the pandemic, students who were preparing for the MPSC exams came to the city but much to their dismay, the lockdown was not only imposed but their exams were also postponed.On learning about this, the coaching centre took the responsibility of feeding 200 candidates, who came from across Marathwada. The problem began for them after the closure of kitchens serving food to them.Food is being served to the aspirants, irrespective of them having any association with the competitive exam training centre. Institute director and Samajbhushan awardee, Bhimrao Hattiambire said that food is being prepared and served to these students for free. “We intend to this, so that when these candidates crack the exams and get in to services, they too contribute their bit to the society.” Of the total candidates being served, about 70% are women. A woman aspirant, on the conditions of anonymity said, “While coming to Aurangabad, we had a limited budget, enough to pay for house rent, tuition fees and for kitchen mess.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/coaching-centre-gives-food-to-200-aspirants/articleshow/75169161.cms||---
April 16, 2020||Business||Wipro won’t provide Q1 revenue guidance||BENGALURU: Wipro said it will not provide revenue guidance for the first quarter ending June due to the severe business disruption from the Covid-19 pandemic. This is the first time it has done this since it started providing guidance. Cognizant also earlier this month withdrew its guidance for 2020. “We anticipate that we will resume providing revenue guidance when we have increased certainty of both demand and supply side factors,” chief financial officer Jatin Dalal said in a statement. The move led to its American Depositary Receipts (ADRs) losing nearly 8% in morning trade on the New York Stock Exchange. Its shares on the BSE was down 1.5% but since the results were announced after markets closed, the real impact will only be seen on Thursday. For the fourth quarter ended March 31, India’s fourth largest IT services provider’s revenue was up 2.6% on constant currency compared to last year. On a reported basis, it inched up 0.4% to $2.1 billion. For the full year, revenue was up 1.7% to $8.3 billion. The fourth quarter was particularly challenging, especially the last 10-12 days, as lockdowns were imposed across India resulting in discontinuity of business which resulted in revenue loss of $14-$16 million. Incrementally, the company lost $21 million in revenue, thus failing to meet its growth guidance of 0-2%. “We are still very much in the middle of the crisis,” outgoing chief executive Abidali Neemuchwala cautioned, adding that if the crisis peaks in July, then decline in revenue will be drastic. There has already been a negative impact on clients' business with less IT spends, pricing pressures, and companies asking for longer payment cycles. “Segments like retail, travel, auto will experience deeper impact,” Neemuchwala said. All business segments across geographies bore the brunt. Wipro’s margins also came under pressure at 17.6%, down 140 basis points compared to last year and 80 basis points sequentially. CFO Dalal said he expects working capital to increase. “This is bigger than the financial crisis (2008-09),” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/wipro-wont-provide-q1-revenue-guidance/articleshow/75169168.cms||Avik Das
April 16, 2020||Business||Wipro defers promotions, hikes indefinitely||BENGALURU: Wipro is deferring annual increments and promotions scheduled for June for most of its employees as the company grapples with the uncertainty due to coronavirus. “It is certainly not happening in the first quarter. We will take a call based on how the business moves and are not in a position to give guidance,” president and chief human resources officer Saurabh Govil said when asked about the time such hikes might happen. The company will honour all job offers made in the engineering and MBA institutes, though onboarding will be deferred and the time will be decided later. Wipro said in January it will hire 12,000 from Indian campuses this fiscal. But Govil on Wednesday said the company will take a call about hiring numbers closer to the time it starts visiting campuses around September. “The biggest cost in our business is people so there are three ways of cost optimisation. Either we onboard less or do not give hikes or reduce the number of people. Depending on the situation, we will decide what to do,” Govil said. Staff strength falls by 4.4k Wipro’s employee strength fell by as much as 4,400 in Q4, suggesting that business was weakening even before the Covid-19 impact. The total strength now is 182,886, compared to 187,318 at the end of the third quarter.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/wipro-defers-promotions-hikes-indefinitely/articleshow/75169201.cms||Avik Das
April 16, 2020||Chennai||Agricultural activity back to normal in most areas||Chennai: Relaxations announced by the MHA, starting from April 20, to restart economic activity in a phased manner would help farmers go full throttle in areas not hit by Covid-19. Agriculture and horticulture activities are progressing in full swing in most villages as more than 95% of TN villages are not hit by the pandemic. Compared to last year, there is substantial increase in summer crop cultivation in the state this year. While about 6.5 lakh acres were covered under agricultural crop cultivation like paddy, millets, pulses and oil seeds between March 1 and April 15 last year, it has gone up to 9 lakh acres for the same period this year. Similarly, area under horticultural crops like vegetables and fruits has also gone up. Efforts taken by the agriculture and horticulture departments in the last 10 days have helped ease pressure on farmers who were finding it tough to sell their produce when lockdown started. Agriculture secretary Gagandeep Singh Bedi said as on Wednesday, the department was procuring more than 4,000 tonnes of vegetables a day from farmers -- double of what was being procured a week ago. “At present, we are getting about 66% of the total vegetables produced a day – 6,000 tonnes - in the state. Efforts are being taken to increase it further. About 3,700 tonnes of the vegetables we procure is being sold through 6,200 mobile motorised vehicles and 4,200 push carts. Over and above that, we sell vegetables through our website ethottam.com. Department of horticulture and agri marketing, CMDA and local bodies are involved in the distribution and sales. “As we sell at cost, there is no significant difference between our procurement price and selling price. More than 150 farmers’ markets add a significant share too,” said Bedi. “In effect, a vast majority of farmers have wriggled out of the clutches of traders, middlemen, wholesalers and retailers, who never gave what was due to farmers all these years. To ease the pressure on flower growers, about 35 tonnes of flowers from Madurai region was being diverted to scent factories, some of which were defunct for some time,” said Bedi. Activities like ploughing, sowing, irrigation, application of fertilizers and harvesting were almost back to normalcy in most areas, said Bedi. “We have been holding talks with all food processing companies at the state and district level to get them back to production. Most rice, flour, pulses and oil mills have restarted work. Masala-making firms have also begun work in many places. The government is sorting out transportation issues faced by private food processing firms, which procure their raw material from other states. An ADGP is coordinating with police officials in other states to ensure smooth movement of goods,” said another official.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/agricultural-activity-back-to-normal-in-most-areas/articleshow/75170061.cms||---
April 16, 2020||Jaipur||Netas interfere in work, allege JMC officials||Jaipur: A few days ago, a deputy commissioner of Jaipur Municipal Corporation (JMC) was sent on APO for not allowing workers of a political party to spray disinfectants in the city. The officer was following rules but political party members were there for publicity. This was seen as interference in the work of JMC officials. At the time of pandemic when officials are busy in disinfecting roads and streets of the city, politicians have been interfering in JMC work. They have been calling JMC officials to spray disinfectant in areas where their vote banks are to spray disinfectant individually in people’s home and take photographs to get publicity. A JMC official said they had been getting calls every day from MLAs and MPs ordering them to spray disinfectant according to their wishes. “They order us to spray disinfectants in individual houses or areas of their vote banks. The official was sent on APO and transferred to Jaisalmer, but the entire JMC staff stood behind him. He was just doing his job and these kinds of decision lower the morale of officials and workers,” said the JMC official. JMC commissioner VP Singh had released a press note requesting people not to approach influential people to get disinfectants sprayed individually at their houses. He said it was not possible to spray disinfectants in all houses and such requests affect operations. Similar complaints were received from officials while distributing ration and food. This had grave impact as the people in need were not been able to get the help required.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/netas-interfere-in-work-allege-jmc-officials/articleshow/75170055.cms||---
April 16, 2020||Ranchi||Govt to initiate money transfer to stranded labourers in a wk: Oraon||Ranchi: State finance minister Rameshwar Oraon on Wednesday said the government’s direct benefit transfer (DBT) of one time money into the accounts of stranded migrants, both within and outside Jharkhand, will begin within the next few days as letters to initiate ground works in this regard is being dispatched to all the districts and local legislators. On Monday, the cabinet decided to transfer Rs 1,000 to the stranded migrants in Jharkhand and Rs 2,000 to the those stuck outside the state as a one-time immediate monetary relief. Beneficiary identification will be done on the recommendation by local MLA to the concerned of a particular district. Each MLA can recommend up to Rs 25 lakh from his coffers. Talking to TOI, Oraon said, “The government is serious on extending immediate monetary relief to stranded migrants and following cabinet’s nod on Monday, official communiques are being sent to all the districts. In the next step, all the MLAs will begin a survey to identify the beneficiaries in their respective constituencies and recommend them to the deputy development commissioner (DDC). We will start sending the money in a week’s time I suppose.” When asked how will the government ensure that the amount is being credited to a genuine account, Oraon said, “Focus will be on accounts which are linked with Aadhaar. This is the best option available with the government at the moment. Rest, we will sort out the problems as and when we encounter them on a case-by-case basis.” As per the government’s assessment, around seven lakh migrants are stranded in other states while identification of those stuck within Jharkhand is underway, sources in the labour and employment generation department said. Jharkhand Janadhikaar Manch (JJM), which is a conglomeration of several rights body working in different social sectors, cited several challenges in transferring money with the help of Aadhar linkage. JJM member Siraj Datta said, “Only depending on Aadhaar linkage could be a problem as we have seen in the past that several accounts are linked with the wrong Aadhaar numbers in Jharkhand.” He also spoke about the cumbersome process of money transfer. He said, “The MLA will first recommend the beneficiaries which will then be cross-checked by the DDC, which is nothing but cumbersome. The entire process is going to take weeks. If the government has the data of seven lakh people, it should then just take them two to three days to put all the government call centres at work in order to collect their account details for the transfer of DBT. The government can choose to have electronic receipts to track the account holder in case of any gaffe.” He added, “Those migrants who are stuck near the cities and have access to platforms like Google Pay can be given money through it.” Datta also pointed out that the quantum of funds is too less and it could lead to uneven distribution. “There is a cap of Rs 25 lakh per MLA for recommendation. Considering 80 MLAs in the state, the total amount of funds comes to about Rs 20 crore. What if a particular constituency has two lakh migrants while another has 50,000? We suspect not many would be able to receive timely help at all. The government must increase the quantum of funds,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/govt-to-initiate-money-transfer-to-stranded-labourers-in-a-wk-oraon/articleshow/75168106.cms||ASRP Mukesh
April 16, 2020||Ranchi||Ranchi, Dhanbad MPs reach Jharkhand by road amid lockdown, face flak||Ranchi: BJP parliamentarians from Ranchi and Dhanbad, Sanjay Seth and Pashupati Nath Singh, have found themselves under the scanner after the duo returned to Jharkhand from New Delhi via road on the night of March 13 amid the prevailing nationwide lockdown. The matter came to light late on Tuesday evening after a photograph showing Seth handing over thermal screening guns to Ranchi deputy commissioner Rai Mahimapat Ray found its way into social media. Seth’s associates confirmed that the meeting took place on Tuesday morning. Seth’s phone remained switched off throughout Wednesday. One of his close aides in Ranchi said: “Since public curfew was held on March 22, he was at his government residence in the national capital. On the morning of March 13, he left for Ranchi in a car with a bodyguard around 7am and reached here at 11:30 pm. Since then, he is under self-imposed home quarantine.” When asked how Seth got here amid the lockdown, the associate said: “He obtained special permission from the Union government.” Singh also returned to Dhanbad on March 13 night and was advised home quarantine by the deputy commissioner. Taking strong exception, Jharkhand Mukti Morcha (JMM) on Wednesday urged the Hemant Soren government to conduct a probe to find out how the two lawmakers managed to slip into the state without being screened. “It is also surprising how the Uttar Pradesh and Bihar governments allowed them to cross their borders without proper screening when inter-state travel is not allowed during the lockdown,” JMM general secretary Supriyo Bhattacharya said. As per sources in BJP, Seth returned to Ranchi to oversee the relief work to be undertaken across six assembly segments under Ranchi parliamentary constituency limits. Under his patronage, Seth plans to distribute 1 lakh food packets, each comprising rice (3kg), pulses (2kg), potatoes (3kg), onion (2kg), masks, sanitizers and soaps this week onwards. Bhattacharya also criticised the Ranchi administration for not taking Seth for screening at the dedicated Covid facility at Rajendra Institute of Medical Sciences and for not shifting him to the government quarantine facility at the Mega Sports Complex in Hotwar. “All those who came in contact with Seth should be put on a 14-day quarantine as per the guidelines, even the deputy commissioner,” Bhattacharya claimed. Rashtriya Janata Dal – Loktantrik, a breakaway faction from Lalu’s party, on Wednesday demanded that separate FIRs be lodged against Seth and Singh. While the Ranchi deputy commissioner declined to comment on the matter, a senior official in the district administration said: “No government is mandated to issue passes amid the lockdown allowing inter-state and inter-district movements. The MP had travelled with a pass issued by the Delhi police. Had he not travelled with a pass, there was a ground for lodging FIR against him.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/ranchi-dhanbad-mps-reach-jharkhand-by-road-amid-lockdown-face-flak/articleshow/75166733.cms||Dhritiman Ray
April 16, 2020||Ranchi||Deposit Rs 10k to PM-CARES funds to get bail: Jharkhand HC||Ranchi: The Jharkhand high court on Wednesday granted anticipatory bail to an accused on the condition that he deposits Rs 10,000 into the PM-CARES (Prime Minister’s Citizen Assistance and Relief in Emergency Situations) funds along with furnishing a bail bond. Accused Nageshwar Singh was charged in an illegal liquor transcation case under sections of the Excise Act in East Singhbhum district last year. After hearing the case via video conferencing, justice Deepak Roshan said, “In the event of his arrest or surrender within a period of two months from the date of this order, he shall be released on bail on showing the proof of payment of Rs 10,000 to PM-CARES fund.” The accused also has to furnish a bail bond of Rs 25,000 with two sureties each of similar amount. The court order came after Singh’s lawyer informed the court that he has no criminal antecedents. He added that neither the seized articles (liquor) were recovered from the conscious possession of the petitioner nor was he apprehended from the spot.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/deposit-rs-10k-to-pm-cares-funds-to-get-bail-jharkhand-hc/articleshow/75166592.cms||---
April 16, 2020||Jamshedpur||Jharkhand: East Singhbhum administration writes to private schools to waive off tuition fees for lockdown period||JAMSHEDPUR: The East Singbhum administration is in talks with private English medium schools here to waive off fees for the period of the lockdown, officials said on Wednesday. Following government directives, schools here were shut from March 17. The district superintendent of education on Wednesday told TOI that letters are being sent to the schools to forgo fees for the period of the lockdown starting March 25. “The fee waiver is not about any particular month, but for the total days of the lockdown period,” said DSE Vineet Kumar. However, the schools said they are yet to receive any circular and would prefer to comment once they receive it. “The matter of waiving fees is under consideration with the school management and as and when a decision is taken, we shall go public about it,” said Fr P Raj, principal, St Mary’s English School. Raj added that his school is yet to receive any circular from the administration. A principal of another English medium school on condition of anonymity said, “Fee waivers will hurt the financial health of schools as the managements primarily depend on the monthly tuition fees for earnings.” Meanwhile, parents’ associations, who demanded fee waivers for March and April, welcomed the move. “Schools will remain shut for a long time and thus we had demanded for a fee waiver,” said Ankit Anand, a member of the parents’ association Shiksha Satyagrah. Another such body, Jamshedpur Abhivavak Sangh (JAS), said a majority of private English medium schools may come up with several arguments to evade the directions, but it is for the local adminstration to ensure compliance. “The Jharkhand Academic Council has issued directions for the school fee waiver, hence administration should make schools honour the directions,” said Umesh Kumar, a member of JAS. “Private English medium schools are very particular about the fees, hence, there is a possibility that they hoodwink the government. On one hand they may waive off the fees, but on the other hand, they may increase the fees,” said 48-year-old entrepreneur S N Pathak, a Kadma resident who has two children studying in a leading English medium school.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jamshedpur/east-singhbhum-admin-writes-to-pvt-schools-to-waive-off-tuition-fees-for-lockdown-period/articleshow/75166768.cms||---
April 16, 2020||Ranchi||BJP seeks guv intervention for stricter lockdown in Hindpiri||Ranchi: The state unit of BJP on Wednesday submitted a memorandum to Jharkhand governor Droupadi Murmu via email seeking her intervention for strict enforcement of the lockdown, especially in the Covid-19 hotspots. The saffron party also alleged the Hemant Soren of doing precious little to curb trouble-mongers in the high risk zones like Hindpiri. In the letter, signed jointly by the state BJP president Deepak Prakash and leader of legislative party Babulal Marandi, BJP citied a few recent instances of lockdown violations in Ranchi’s Hindpiri locality in the last few days and how the administration allegedly failed to curb them. “The second phase of the lockdown has begun and the entire nation is united in the fight against coronavirus. However, in Jharkhand, it seems that the government is only interested in blaming the Union government despite the latter extending all possible assistance,” the letter reads. “On the contrary, the state government seems to deliberately act slow against trouble-mongers in Hindpiri despite serial violations by the residents there. Out of 27 covid-19 cases, 13 are from Hindpiri, but still the administration has not been able to enforce the lockdown properly, putting others in risk,” the letter further read. It added, “Corona warriors like cleaning staff and police are constantly being troubled and ridiculed by local residents through protests against them. Reported instances of spitting or vandalism on ambulances have also come in, but the government machinery has failed to act tough. In such situations, the party requests your intervention to direct the government for strict enforcement of the lockdown in Ranchi and other hotspots.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/bjp-seeks-guv-intervention-for-stricter-lockdown-in-hindpiri/articleshow/75168281.cms||---
April 16, 2020||Ranchi||Thundershowers likely in Jharkhand in next 3 days, says IMD||Ranchi: Parts of Jharkhand are likely to witness thundershowers in the next 72 hours, the Ranchi office of India Meteorological Department (IMD) said on Wednesday. In its afternoon weather bulletin, IMD, Ranchi attributed the change in weather pattern to a cyclonic circulation over West Bengal and adjoining Bangladesh, whose trough of low pressure ran across Bihar, Jharkhand and parts of Uttar Pradesh. In the evening, IMD issued warnings of moderate thunderstorm in parts of Ranchi, Ramgarh, Seraikela-Kharsawan, Hazaribag and East Singhbhum with wind speeds up to 40 km/hr. Over the past 24 hours, light rains were recorded in some parts. Pathergama in Godda recorded 13mm rain while Dumka recorded 3.4mm, the weather office said. Maximum and minimum temperatures in Ranchi, Jamshedpur and Daltonganj were recorded a little over normal on Wednesday. Daytime mercury was recorded at 37.3°C in Ranchi, 1.7 degrees above the normal temperature. Jamshedpur and Daltonganj recorded 40.4°C each. IMD, New Delhi on Wednesday issued its first long range forecast for this year’s monsoon. In its forecast, IMD predicted normal rains (96%-104%) in between June and September this year, considered the most active monsoon months. However, IMD Ranchi director S D Kotal said, “Precise forecast about eastern region, including Jharkhand, will be available in a fortnight.” Jharkhand, which records 1,092 mm rain in cumulative in the monsoon months, recorded 19% deficit in 2019.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/thundershowers-likely-in-jharkhand-in-next-3-days-says-imd/articleshow/75168220.cms||---
April 16, 2020||Ranchi||Ranchi businessman celebrates birthday week by feeding poor||Ranchi: For 45 year old Ranchi based businessman, Sanjay Kumar Senapati, his birthday on Thursday will be unique and different. He shall be celebrating it by continuing to serve food to hundreds of needy in the village of Ranchi outskirts to help them tide over the crisis of hunger in times of the nationwide lockdown. The second phase of lockdown till May 3 formally kicked off on Tuesday. But Senapati, who owns a sweet shop at Birsa Chowk, said that the current phase of crisis has given him a new vision towards life. He said, “While I will turn 46 tomorrow, but I am celebrating birthday week this time unlike past years, by serving the needy since last three days.” Accompanied by wife Poonam, the duo daily first distributes about 300 packets of food consisting of 3kg rice, half kg pulse and 1 kg potato to homeless and needy on the streets and then drive to different villages on Ranchi outskirts to single handedly feed around 1,000 people in different villages. He said, “The reason I chose villages on capital outskirts is because there are many who are helping within the city. We get the food cook (poor, sabji, kheer and pickle) at my hotel and packets are carried for distribution. So far we distributed people in Lodhma,Balsiring, Jojoairing and Obhoria villages near Birsa Chowk.” He said the lockdown has given him a new calling. “Helping poor daily gives a lot of satisfaction which is incomparable. If there was no lockdown, I would have thrown lavish party but now I am celebrating by public service.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/ranchi-businessman-celebrates-birthday-week-by-feeding-poor/articleshow/75166706.cms||---
April 16, 2020||Ranchi||200 untested labourers remain in Baharagora isolation centre||JAMSHEDPUR: As India entered lockdown 2.0, around 200 daily wage labourers who are currently at an isolation centre at Baharagora High School, began to worry more as their ‘brief stay’, which was already marred with trauma and lack of food and basic amenities, got extended. The biggest concern, however, is that none of the labourers here have been tested for Covid-19 so far and social distancing is a myth at this centre. Located at the tri-junction of three states — Jharkhand, West Bengal and Odisha — these workers were huddled in this school campus, around 100 kms from Jamshedpur, when they were trying to cross the inter-state borders after the announcement of the lockdown on May 25. TOI’s visit to the isolation centre revealed that the labourers do not even get proper meals, leave alone essential goods such as soaps and sanitizers. The centre houses labourers mainly from West Bengal, Bihar, Jharkhand and Uttar Pradesh. Ram Pyare, a daily wage labourer from UP, who was brought to the camp when he was trying to cross the Jharkhand border from Odisha, said, “When I was caught, police promised that I would be given food and other essential goods at the camp.” He added, “We get khichdi only twice daily and the quantity is very less. There is no fixed time for the food as well.” Pyare was echoed by Hari Mandol, a construction worker from West Bengal. “I have heard it is important to have a proper diet to fight this virus, but here, one proper meal would be enough for us,” he said. However, the most alarming fact about this centre is that none of the 200 odd labourers have been tested for Covid-19. “We are living in constant fear as we do not know who has contracted the disease as no tests have been conducted on any of us,” said Ravi from Bihar. He added, “There is no sanitizer or soap in this centre.” Former Baharagora MLA Kunal Sarangi said, “These workers were brought to the camp and till date not a single test has been done. The problem multiplies when they are living together for days and there is no one to ensure social distancing or maintain basic hygiene.” He added, “Since the food provided is not enough, I arranged muri and alu chop for the inmates for their breakfast.” Local MLA and JMM leader Sameer Mohanty conceded the fact and said, “A team from the district administration had come to enquire about the health of the inmates, but samples for Covid-19 tests are yet to be collected.” Interestingly, though nobody has tried to escape from this centre, there is only one guard with a stick in his hand to man the 200 labourers.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/200-untested-labourers-remain-in-baharagora-isolation-centre/articleshow/75166564.cms||Debasish Chatterjee
April 16, 2020||India||Don't dilute lockdown norms: Centre to states||NEW DELHI: The home ministry wrote to all states and Union territories on Wednesday emphasising that the revised lockdown guidelines issued by it cannot be diluted, though stricter measures can be enforced as per requirement of specific areas.  In a communication to state chief secretaries, home secretary Ajay Bhalla said the additional activities allowed under the revised norms in non-hotspot areas may not be permitted in containment zones demarcated by states and UTs as per guidelines of the health and family welfare ministry. Also, if any new area is demarcated as a containment zone, the activities allowed there till such time will be suspended except for those which are specifically permitted under the revised guidelines. The activities allowed will be withdrawn immediately if any lockdown measures are violated, risking spread of Covid-19. "All entities, in the government and private sectors, and members of the public should follow the guidelines strictly," Bhalla said while urging the states/UTs to ensure compliance of the instructions and direct all authorities concerned for their strict implementation. More on Covid-19Coronavirus pandemic: Complete Coverage21-day lockdown: What will stay open and what won'tHow to quarantine yourself at homeTrust the newspaper for your daily verified news||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/dont-dilute-lockdown-norms-centre/articleshow/75171371.cms||---
April 16, 2020||Nagpur||Migrants’ no. at shelter homes rises by over 200% in 3 weeks||Nagpur: With the lockdown extended till May 3, the Nagpur Municipal Corporation (NMC) stares at a Herculean task of dealing with increasing number of migrants in different shelter homes across the city. On Day One of the national lockdown. i.e. March 25, around 300 migrant and homeless people were staying in different shelter homes in the city. By March 31, the number reached 828 and as on April 15, 1,252 people were staying in 20 shelter homes. This, in other words, translates to over 216% rise in the number of migrants in shelter homes in three weeks. “Occupancy of NMC’s shelter homes has increased by over 50 overnight and around 70 more migrants would have to be accommodated as Dhantoli police intercepted a huge Rajasthan-bound group,” said Ranjana Lade, deputy municipal commissioner, NMC’s social welfare department, on Wednesday. As per the data of migrants compiled by the NMC, 276 persons out of the total 1,252 are from different parts of Maharashtra, while the highest number of 612 stranded people hail from Madhya Pradesh. As many 168 migrants hail from Rajasthan and 104 from Uttar Pradesh. As the novel coronavirus (Covid-19) infection cases are on the rise in the city, NMC had been struggling to curb the spread of the disease and manage public health challenge with limited resources. The increasing number of migrants has added to the pressure. Another senior official expressed concern over receiving new migrants who might infect others because the NMC has no space to isolate such a large number of people. Actually, it exposes lethargic approach of various other government machineries in handling the lockdown. “Despite lockdown in place, how could over 800 people enter city limits? This only points to the callous manner in which the rural police and tehsil administrations are functioning,” said the official. “If the arrival of migrants continues, the existing shelters really don’t have the capacity,” said sources. At present, the NMC is arranging tea, breakfast, two meals for the migrants along with other jobless workers across the city limits.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/migrants-no-at-shelter-homes-rises-by-over-200-in-3-weeks/articleshow/75168258.cms||Proshun Chakraborty
April 16, 2020||Nagpur||With sarpanch letter in hand, stranded Rajasthan migrants seek travel permit||Nagpur: Narendra Jangid, a migrant from Rajasthan, had been staying at a shelter home in Nagpur since March 30. He has arranged a letter from sarpanch of his village to allow people stranded like him to travel back their native place. “The village will ensure to keep them in institutional quarantine for 15 days,” the letter reads. Like Jangid, relatives of eight other stranded persons from the district, also managed to procure similar letters from sarpanches of their respective villages in Nagor district in Rajasthan. These stranded people received the letters through WhatsApp. In all the letters, the sarpanches claimed that quarantine facilities have been set up in their villages and urged concerned authorities to allow their villagers to travel back home. Armed with the letters from respective gram panchayats with request to allow them to go back to their homes, four families from Rajasthan’s Nagor district, who had been staying at a shelter home in Bokhara area under Koradi police station jurisdiction, have urged the district collector Ravindra Thakare to release them. The group has two vehicles in which they had started journey on March 29 from Hyderabad to their hometown in Rajasthan. “On way, Hingna police intercepted our vehicles on Amravati Road and since then we are staying at the Bokhara shelter home,” said Jangid. “We have been staying here since then and had not developed any symptoms of Covid-19 infection,” said a restless Jangid. Our vehicles accommodate all 29 members of our group and the government should issue a travel permit allowing us to go back, said the stranded people. A similar demand was raised by 70-odd labourers from Seoni district in Madhya Pradesh. Kamlesh Yadav, one of the stranded labourers, said they had already completed 14 days at the shelter home. “With no symptoms of the disease, the government should arrange a vehicle for us to go back home,” said Sandip Nangeshwar, another villager who praised NGO members Neerja Pathaniya, Neha Patel, Jalpesh Katoriya for providing quality food to them. BOX 6 pregnant women at shelter home a concern With the lockdown extended till May 3, volunteers working for 113 stranded persons in Bokhara’s Tuli Public School shelter home are a worried lot. The reason: Six of the 37 women there are pregnant. “Of these, one woman has completed seven months of pregnancy. Recently, a city-based gynaecologist carried out free medical check-up, but all of them need extra care,” said volunteers and cited their inexperience in handling such situation.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/with-sarpanch-letter-in-hand-stranded-rajasthan-migrants-seek-travel-permit/articleshow/75168423.cms||Proshun Chakraborty
April 16, 2020||Nagpur||‘No of +ve cases will decide lockdown relaxation in dist’||Nagpur: District collector Ravindra Thakre has made it clear that relaxation in lockdown ordered by the ministry of home affairs (MHA) and state government will be done depending on the situation in the district on April 19. Clearly, if the number of Covid-19 cases increase too much, then there will be no relaxation. In the evening, he issued a circular regarding the activities to be permitted from April 20 if the situation does not worsen. This notwithstanding, the state government circular on lockdown relaxation has created confusion in the minds of local industrialists. They said that a clarification was expected on Thursday. Nitin Lonkar, president of Butibori Manufacturers Association (BMA), said that many activities permitted by MHA were not mentioned in the state government circular. “As per the Wednesday circular, only food processing industries are allowed to function, which were already permitted. On the other hand, MHA has allowed all industries outside municipal limits to run. Industry department officials say that another circular is likely to be issued on Thursday,” he added. Suresh Rathi of Vidarbha Industries Association (VIA) said that a clarification was needed on Thursday as there was lot of confusion in the state circular. Meanwhile, Pravin Mahajan, an irrigation contractor, said that while rural irrigation projects have been permitted, not many contractors are in the mood to start work. “We will need cement, steel, gravel, etc. Labourers will have to be transported from their camps to worksites. The trucks will be stopped at all village boundaries and they will be checked. Moreover, how do we maintain social distancing at sites?” he said while talking to TOI. Mahajan appealed to the government to waive off interest on bank loans taken by the contractors for taking costly machinery on rent. “If this is not done, many contractors will be in deep financial trouble,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/no-of-ve-cases-will-decide-lockdown-relaxation-in-dist/articleshow/75168454.cms||Ashish Roy
April 16, 2020||Nagpur||Petrol, diesel sale just 10-15% of earlier level||Nagpur: The sale of petrol and diesel is now just 10-15% of normal levels in the city proving the lockdown has been effective to a great extent. However, this also means a huge loss for petrol pump owners who have demanded government aid. President of Vidarbha Petroleum Dealers Association (VPDA) Amit Gupta told TOI, “Only people working in emergency services, government machinery, supply of essential goods are using vehicles. City’s 94 pumps sell around 5 lakh litres petrol and 1.5 lakh litres diesel every day. Sale is now below 15%.” Gupta’s own outlet used to sell around 8,000 litres daily which is now down to 1,000 litres (12.5%). Similarly, sale of diesel has come down from 2,000 litres to 200 litres per day (10%). Gupta said, “Operation cost has continued to be same and we are required to keep open as per government’s guidelines. Even, evaporation loss has increased with rise in temperature.” Gupta added that Consortium of Indian Petroleum Dealers has requested three public sector petroleum companies to give a financial package from March and continue it for 120 days after lockdown ends. “The consortium stated that debt-ridden dealers can sustain no more stress. Pump owners and staff are working like heroes in prevailing situation and need immediate help,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/petrol-diesel-sale-just-10-15-of-earlier-level/articleshow/75168509.cms||Anjaya Anparthi
April 16, 2020||Nagpur||NGO to launch Jal Hai Sabka Haq campaign for strays, birds||Nagpur: The temperatures are rising and with complete lockdown in progress, the condition of stray animals in city is deteriorating. To provide them some relief in the scorching heat, city-based animal welfare NGO Save Speechless Organization (SSO) has kickstarted a ‘Jal Hai Sabka Haq’ campaign. Under this, the organization will be installing over 50 cement water pots across the city for stray animals. “In the current crisis due to Covid-19 pandemic, everyone is having a tough time. The stray animals helplessly wandering in search of food and water are specially hard-hit. Even birds and other smaller animals like squirrels and cats are struggling for survival,” said Smita Mire, founder of SSO. While the strays manage to get food on the streets, the biggest concern is water. “Through Jal Hai Sabka Haq project, we aim to help animals and birds to quench their thirst during the lockdown. For now, we have placed an order for 50 pots, with each costing Rs 120. But we want to place more pots across the city so that no animal dies of thirst,” added Mire. The cement pots are heavy and thus no one can steal them which usually happens with mud or metal pots. “Thus these pots will be placed permanently. All of them have our organization's title ‘Save Speechless Organization (SSO)’ as identification marks,” said Mire. The initiative will start from Saturday in which the volunteers will cover different areas like Manewada, Narendra Nagar, Khamla, Patode Square, Ambazari, Jaitala, Hingna T-Point, Amravati Road, Wadi etc. For the route Dabha to Katol Naka, the organization has booked a tanker which will fill water in the pots. “At other locations, our volunteers will refill the pots everyday. We will be using our own vehicles for the campaign,” said Mire. The organization is seeking support from citizens to cover more areas. Those who wish to help can contact SSO on: 8055239993. “We are also willing to make pots for interested citizens. All they have to do is tell us the number of pots they want and the location where they will be placing it,” said Mire.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/ngo-to-launch-jal-hai-sabka-haq-campaign-for-strays-birds/articleshow/75168751.cms||Manka Behl
April 16, 2020||Nagpur||For every negative emotion, they have a positive solution||Nagpur: As the coronavirus pandemic and its far reaching fear continue to unfold, it is natural for humans to feel a wide range of emotions. For the first time in the city, ‘MotivatedSteps’, an online counseling platform founded in November 2019, is providing online counseling services, sessions, talk therapy. MotivatedSteps has a team of 13 counselors all over India to help the people amid this stressful situation. Khushal Katara, founder of MotivatedSteps, wanted to do something for the people who shy away from seeking therapy. It is coming in handy for teenagers and adults. They have successfully conducted over 200 sessions. “From April 1, 2020, we started with free telephonic counseling sessions for the people feeling low in this quarantine period. It’s a step to make people feel heard and helped,” he said. Problems such as extreme anxiety, panic attacks and clinical depression are surfacing. “We have diagnosed people with depression and anxiety because they are not able to step out. Initially they would go out and calm themselves but now being grounded at home is taking a toll on many people’s mental health,” said Pooja Thakkar, clinical psychologist associated with the platform. Thakkar stated by the time the lockdown ended there was a high risk of people getting OCD (obsessive compulsive disorder), agoraphobia, and major addiction of alcoholand drugs. “Continuously cleaning hands or being very particular about anything can lead to OCD. Agoraphobia is fear of going out and meeting certain new people. We recommend a psychiatrist for the people who show withdrawal symptoms or hallucinations because of alcohol addiction or substance abuse,” she added. Patients have stated the urge to not living to the fullest or being negative about life during quarantine. For such patients, Thakkar said, “We conduct several talk therapy, video call and telephonic sessions. Talking about a problem always helps. Controlling the obsessive habits and calming our mind down are the keys to such problems,’’ she added. Stigma about mental health is still prevalent. Many teenagers and youngsters using MotivatedSteps are not able to talk to their parents about feeling blue. “We are receiving overwhelming response. Now people have a venue to share their problems,” said Garvita Singh, counseling psychologist at MotivatedSteps. She said couple problems, relationship issues and even problems between parent and child had become more frequent during quarantine. Singh said a client had said she was not able to maintain healthy relation with her child. “There’s going to be a lot of breakups and divorces in future. But at least people are talking about it and we provide sessions to help them come out of it,” she added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/for-every-negative-emotion-they-have-a-positive-solution/articleshow/75168790.cms||Shreya Tinkhede
April 16, 2020||Nagpur||Confusion over issuing MBBS certificates||Nagpur: The Directorate of Medical Education and Research (DMER) has asked Government Medical Colleges (GMCs) across the state to issue degrees to MBBS students, who are in the process of NEET-PG admission process, without insisting on affidavit issued by the executive magistrate. Many UG students have landed NEET-PG seats after the first allotment round recently, and will soon have to submit soft and hard copies at their preferred colleges across the country. However, some GMCs refused to issue hard copies of the degrees to students citing an earlier notification mandating submission of photo-affidavit issued by tehsil office regarding bond period compliance. As per legal experts, the affidavit issued by executive magistrate is considered more authentic as it requires physical presence of the candidate for biometric details. However, as the tehsil offices are shut because of lockdown, students are finding it difficult to even bring notarized affidavits. The government approved notaries too are found near these offices during working days. At Nagpur, IGGMCH and GMCH have adopted different approaches on the issue. While the former has decided to hand over degrees, GMCH has permitted students to click photograph of the original degree and upload it on Medical Counselling Committee (MCC) website where PG Medical/Dental registrations have started. Some students told TOI that they were ready to give undertaking and a notarized affidavit in the prescribed format yet GMCH refused to give the degrees. A senior authority at IGGMCH told TOI, “DMER has instructed us to issue the degree. We have taken an undertaking that the affidavit will be submitted soon after the lockdown is over and offices open. We understand that such relaxation is necessary at this stage of PG admissions.” A parent asked how can there be two different sets of norms for students of same university. Both, GMCH and IGGMCH are affiliated to Nashik-based Maharashtra University of Health Sciences (MUHS). “My child has been allotted a top college of the country. Instead of appreciating the student’s achievement, GMCH authorities are harassing my child. We have been going around the college for last couple of days. They asked us to attached bona fide. The NEET-PG guidelines do not permit this,” the parent said. GMCH dean Sajal Mitra said they have not refused to give degree to any one. “It is given for a specific time for PG admission by taking an undertaking that it will be returned after seat confirmation. After lockdown ends, students will have to submit the affidavit issued by magistrate. Degrees are held back to ensure bond period is served.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/confusion-over-issuing-mbbs-certificates/articleshow/75168823.cms||Sarfaraz Ahmed
April 16, 2020||Mumbai||Bandra arrests: Workers were instigated, say cops||MUMBAI: Vinay Dubey, a political worker, was picked up on Tuesday night from his Airoli residence and arrested early on Wednesday for instigating migrants to gather at stations to board trains. He had put up many videos urging migrants to reach Kurla’s Lokmanya Tilak Terminus on April 18 and said he would help them get home. He had asked workers to protest against government for not facilitating their movement. TV journalist Rahul Kulkarni was held from Osmanabad, district SP Raj Roshan said, for airing a report on Tuesday saying railways had decided to run Jansadharan special trains to allow stranded workers to go home. A Bandra police officer said nine migrants identified by CCTV cameras have also been arrested for creating a ruckus. While Dubey was produced before court and remanded in police custody till April 21, DCP Abhishek Trimukhe said Kulkarni and the nine workers would be brought to court on Thursday. Apart from these three FIRs, Bandra police had initially on Tuesday registered their first offence against 800 to 1,000 unknown accused (migrant workers) for unlawful assembly and rioting. Kamothe police arrested a social activist Kamlesh Dubey and his aide Mohammad Ansari for making and circulating a video featuring 10-12 people. PSI Rohit Bandgar said, “We are probing if Kamlesh Dubey has links with Vinay Dubey.” Kulkarni had on Tuesday posted a letter on Facebook, saying it had been leaked from South Central Railway, Secunderabad. On Wednesday, South Central Railway tweeted: “CLARIFICATION: A communication related to internal planning of SCR to assess demand for train services is being misinterpreted in some sections as decision to run spl trains for migrant labour. There is NO such proposal & ALL Passenger Trains stand CANCELLED till 03.05.2020.” While public works minister Ashok Chavan demanded a probe and alleged some elements wanted to “disturb communal harmony,” NCP spokesperson Nawab Malik denied allegations made on social media that Dubey was an NCP worker. NCP chief Sharad Pawar urged parties not to score points. Bandra’s BJP MLA Ashish Shelar said one reason for discontent among migrants was inability to connect with families over phone and suggested they be given access to speak to families. ABP Majha said in a statement, “There is no...way-...crowds that gathered...can be linked to our stories. We will take legal steps, we have not deviated from practices of responsible journalism...Before journalists are arrested, there should be due verification of all facts.” -Inputs by Clara Lewis||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/bandra-arrests-workers-were-instigated-say-cops/articleshow/75171422.cms||Narayan Namboodiri
April 16, 2020||Business||All state jute mills to open from April 20||Kolkata: The jute industry in Bengal that produces almost 95% of jute bags for food grain packaging across the country can heave a sigh of relief now as the Central government has allowed all the jute mills to function in an order issued on Wednesday. With most of the state governments facing acute shortage of food grain packaging materials for Ravi marketing season (RMS), the ministry of home affairs (MHA) in its order on Wednesday has allowed the entire jute industry to operate in staggered shifts maintaining proper social distancing and other sanitisation norms from April 20. Chief minister Mamata Banerjee, too, on Wednesday allowed the jute sector to function with limited workforce of 15%. Last week, amid a shortage in supply of packaging materials for foodgrains during Covid-19 lockdown crisis, Punjab chief minister Amrinder Singh had called his Bengal counterpart for a steady supply of jute bags. The jute mills have not been operating with the onset of lockdown since March 24. IJMA has written to the state government and formulating operational guidelines for mills on Wednesday following the MHA order and subsequent approval by CM. More than two lakh people are employed in the jute industry across the state. Meanwhile, there was a furore among members of IJMA, the nodal representative body of jute mills in the country, on Tuesday over a letter issued by the Union ministry of textile on April 13 night. The letter written by Union textile secretary to the chief secretary of West Bengal, Rajiva Sinha, had urged the state government to give permission to 18 of the 72 jute mills in the state to operate in view of the shortages of jute bags in this Ravi crop season. Most jute mill owners came down heavily on that order terming it as “partisan and discriminatory” on the part of union textile ministry and current IJMA office bearers. Mamata Banerjee too in her address on Wednesday termed the earlier order of opening 18 mills as injustice and allowed all to operate. However, when contacted, IJMA president Raghav Gupta told TOI that the earlier order of textile ministry has been superceded by the MHA order on April 15. “Now, we shall write to state government for opening all jute mills in the manner prescribed in the circular and further suggested by the state government. We are also formulating the guidelines of staggered shifts in jute mills. Hopefully we can start operation after April 20,” he added. Ghanshyam Sarda, the chairman of Sarda group, welcomed the directive of MHA on Wednesday as well as unbiased approach of state government towards jute mills. However, he expressed his dismay that the heads of IJMA misguided the textile ministry earlier in preparing the list. Hemant Bangur, chairman of Gloster Jute Mills, also criticized the earlier directive of textile ministry and questioned the role of IJMA for the approach. Sanjay Rai, the general secretary of Trinamool Jute & Textile Workers Federation, had earlier written to state chief secretary for opening all jute mills. The MLA of Barrackpore, Nirmal Ghosh, under whose constituency 16 jute mills operate, said he is discussing the issue of opening of all jute mills with limited workforce with the state government.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/all-state-jute-mills-to-open-from-april-20/articleshow/75169217.cms||---
April 16, 2020||Thane||Food shortage in Mumbra may lead to unrest||THANE: The possibility of rising demand for food and ration could spark off a similar outbreak of protests, political activists from Kalwa-Mumbra said. Kalwa corporator and NCP leader Milind Patil told TOI party workers are facing demands amid depleting stocks. If the situation is not controlled in time, things could get bad, he said. "We are feeding nearly 80,000 people daily and are on our toes. The last few days we are facing delays in arrival of ration and volunteers are wary of getting infected. People are getting restless and want to leave. If they do not get rations in time, it may lead to unrest," Patil said. After the Mumbra outburst, Thane civic body announced a community kitchen in coordination with local NGOs to feed nearly 50,000 people. Manoj Badgeri||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/thane/food-shortage-in-mumbra-may-lead-to-unrest/articleshow/75171442.cms||Manoj Badgeri
April 16, 2020||Nagpur||SECR swings into action, seals Motibagh entry point||Nagpur: A day after TOI reported how slum dwellers from Dobi Nagar and nearby areas violated the lockdown by trespassing railway tracks to enter Motibagh Colony, the South East Central Railway (SECR) on Wednesday permanently fenced the entry point. Residents of Motibagh Railway Colony had complained to the authorities that trespassers from Mominpura, Dobi Nagar and Ansar Nagar slums were using the narrow gauge tracks through bridge number 4 to reach the colony and other areas of the city through the residential area. They said that owing to the series of Covid-19 positive cases in the area, the administration had sealed the entire area. Hence, in the last few days there was a spurt in the movement of people from these slums. On Tuesday, after TOI reported about the coronavirus fears expressed by residents of the colony, the SECR’s engineering department swung into action on Wednesday and fenced the entry point of the bridge. “Now, the movement of two-wheelers will not be possible. They will have to either go to Motibagh Chowk or pass through Timki and Golibar Chowk to reach Kamptee or any other place. With no fencing, slum dwellers were having a free run, round-the-clock. They had even removed a temporary barricade put up by Matatoli residents,” said the colony’s social workers. Though the underbridge has been blocked, the movement of people cannot be ruled out as they may cross the main Howrah line to reach Motibagh Colony.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/secr-swings-into-action-seals-motibagh-entry-point/articleshow/75169104.cms||---
April 16, 2020||Jamshedpur||Jharkhand: West Singhbhum DDC develops cov-bot, isolation bed||JAMSHEDPUR: The West Singhbhum district administration has designed a remote-controlled robot that can carry food and medicines to patients at the isolation ward of the railway hospital in Chakradharpur, which has been converted into a Covid-19 hospital. The robot has been named Covid robot or cov-bot. Inaugurated on Tuesday, the battery-operated device is equipped with a close-circuit camera and a speaker for two-way communication. The load carrying capacity of the robot is 30kg. A brainchild of West Singhbhum deputy development commissioner (DDC) Aditya Ranjan, it has been developed by him with help from four other engineers of the district rural development agency (DRDA). Ranjan said, “The robot can move freely within a radius of 300 feet and can be operated remotely. We needed Rs 25,000 to develop the robot, but its usefulness in minimising human contact and thereby checking the spread of the novel coronavirus is priceless.” The group led by the DDC has also developed an innovative isolation bed. “The conventional iron bed has been covered with a polythene sheet tightly from all four corners and this helps in reducing the risk of droplets infecting another person when a Covid-19 patient coughs or sneezes,” Ranjan said. Ranjan, who is a computer science graduate from BIT-Mesra, added that as there has been no positive case of Covid-19 in the district, his team has developed only one cov-bot and isolation bed, but if the situation demands they can increase the production. Earlier, Ranjan had designed a telephone booth-size protective gear for health workers to collect samples for Covid-19 tests.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jamshedpur/w-singhbhum-ddc-develops-cov-bot-isolation-bed/articleshow/75167992.cms||B Sridhar
April 16, 2020||Kolkata||Poverty stalks Bengal workers in Mumbai||Chinsurah: Stranded in Mumbai’s Bandra, Santa Cruz and Malad areas, the burden of poverty is weighing heavily on migrant workers from Bengal in the wake of Covid-19. Like workers from other states, they too had heard that train services would resume after April 14 and had turned up at Bandra station on Tuesday. Some of them received baton blows as police tried to quell a snowballing protest amid misplaced information. Ever since the lockdown, migrant workers from Bengal say they have barely been able to eat two square meals a day with vigilant cops chasing them away every time they have stepped out. Sheikh Salauddin of Hooghly’s Khanakul had been working at an embroidery unit in Malad for the past eight years and lives with seven other workers from Bengal in a two-room house near Bandra East station. “We had bought train tickets for April 15. We have no money and don’t know how we will manage here till May 3,” Salauddin said, adding that back home relatives were trying to rustle up some cash for them. Raj Kumar Das of Hooghly’s Pursura came to Mumbai 6 years ago to work at an optician’s in Bandra. “I stay with seven others from West Midnapore, Burdwan and Hooghly in in a slum near Bandra. We pay Rs 10,000 a month as rent. We have no cash for food. If we can’t return home soon, we will die here of hunger,” he said. Sheikh Maidul of West Midnapore’s Kespur, who has worked at jewellery workshops in Mumbai for 10 years, said they were not part of protests on Tuesday. Khanakul panchayat samiti karmadhyaksh Sheikh Hira said: “Police caned 25 people from Hooghly and 2 from Midnapore at Bandra station. We are trying to arrange whatever relief we can for them.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/poverty-stalks-bengal-workers-in-mumbai/articleshow/75170614.cms||Falguni Banerjee
April 16, 2020||Kolkata||Mamata: Bengal ‘sensitive’ to lockdown pain points||KOLKATA: Bengal chief minister Mamata Banerjee on Wednesday allowed more concessions in the state as part of her lockdown plan with a “human face”, balancing life and livelihood with a special focus on sectors that engage the largest number of daily labourers. And, like she has done before, she reiterated the importance of strictly following social distancing norms in the collective effort to win the war against Covid-19. The chief minister, while not compromising with any of the “red zones” — the Centre has released a list of 170 districts across the country, which have such zones, including four in Bengal: Kolkata, Howrah, North 24 Parganas and East Midnapore — preferred to call them “sensitive” areas. “I urge the police to make doorstep delivery of food items in the sensitive zones that need micro-planning,” she said at Nabanna, wearing the now-mandatory mask. Banerjee spent a part of her press meet to show how one should cover one’s nose and mouth, and also how masks could be made at home with various kinds of readily available cloth. The CM took no chance with children, repeating that all schools would remain shut till June 10, while allowing the most relaxations in daily labour-intensive sectors, such as road construction, real estate, irrigation and public health engineering. “Contractors may engage MNREGS workers in jobs,” she said, opening up opportunities for labourers in the rural sector, apart from crop harvesting, by relaxing norms in the construction of dwelling units, water harvesting, plantation in nurseries and rural industrial units. And she threw open brick kilns, which engage a huge number of daily wage-earners. Banerjee said the three HS papers that had to be suspended would be held in June and announced automatic promotion for Class XI students, on the lines of the earlier-announced move of promoting students between classes I and VIII. For college and university students, too, she had a relaxation: instead of holding examinations after each semester, teachers will start giving lessons for the next semester; and students will have to take exams after the final semester. For industrial estates, Banerjee had a rider: individual industrial estates have to write to the chief secretary, seeking relaxations on operations. “The chief secretary will examine each proposal and give a go-ahead on a case-to-case basis,” she said. Taking note of the MHA guidelines over the functioning of government offices, the CM rolled out a duty schedule for state government officers. “State government officers of the rank of deputy secretary and above have to attend office on alternate days,” she said. She also asked Swasthya Bhavan to prepare a rotational duty roster for doctors, nurses and paramedical staff on 24x7 duty in government hospital.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/mamata-bengal-sensitive-to-lockdown-pain-points/articleshow/75170421.cms||---
April 16, 2020||Kolkata||Out of cash, migrants start walking home||Kolkata: Hundreds of migrant labourers running out of money have begun a homeward journey on foot in West Bengal, taking their existential dilemma beyond life and livelihood. Above all is their desperation to reach home even if it means breaking lockdown rules. The migration on foot has prompted the administration to set up police outposts at several points in towns and highways to prevent the trend picking up after a massive gathering of migrant workers at Bandra railway station in Mumbai on Tuesday in their desperate bid to catch a train. The movement of migrant labourers in Bengal throws up a mixed profile, inter-state and intra-state. While some are from neighbouring Assam, Bihar, Jharkhand and Odisha, some others are from various districts in Bengal itself. Stranded in Nadia, 15,500 brick-field workers from Bihar and Jharkhand are on edge, said Nadia zilla sabhadhipati Rikta Kundu. “We are giving them food and shelter. We can’t allow them to move out. The district is under strict surveillance,” Kundu said. Another group of 49 road labourers from Bihar has already approached the panchayat at Ranaghat’s Anulia to allow them to go back home. These workers have been spending days together without food after their contractor laid them off. “We don’t want anything more. We want to go home,” said Kali Mahato, a migrant labourer from Giridih. CPM’s Nadia functionary S M Sadi said: “We provided them food but they are not in a mood to stay back.” Many of the 3,700 labourers from South 24 Parganas, working in cold storage facilities in north Bengal, have started on foot for their homes at Raidighi, Patharpratima and other villages in the Sunderbans. Falakata police tried to prevent them from proceeding but the workers refused to return to their workplace. “I don’t know how long we will be able to hold them back. They have become desperate,” said Manoj Saha, secretary of West Bengal Cold Storage Association, north Bengal chapter. Police have also intercepted a truck from Assam carrying 40 labourers. All were pushed back to Assam after a health check-up. A group of 11 migrant workers from Tatanagar reached Midnapore on Wednesday on their way back home in Malda and Murshidabad. They are walking all the way. Midnapore police stopped them soon after they crossed the Kansabati bridge near Dharma and took all to Kharagpur. The same day, some workers from Howrah’s Amta entered Hooghly’s Pursuara on their way to Birhum’s Murarai. Champadanga police provided them food and advised them to walk towards Burdwan. BJP ward convenor from Asansol Amitava Banerjee has appealed to the Bengal governor to help a group of 33 stranded at Amrita Lodge, Durgapur, near Mission Hospital. These people had come for treatment and have nine children with them. “We have provided them 25kg rice, 50kg atta, fruits and vegetables,” Banerjee said. Yet, these people are growing restive. On the other hand, Bengal tourists stranded in Vrindavan and patients locked down in Chennai have been sending SOS to Bengal to bring them back. “We have got in touch with them and with migrant labourers stranded in other states. We will be sending some pocket money to them. I would urge them to bear with the lockdown,” chief minister Mamata Banerjee said. (With inputs from Ashis Poddar, Pinak Priya Bhattacharya, Sujoy Khanra, Falguni Banerjee and Md Asif)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/out-of-cash-migrants-start-walking-home/articleshow/75170651.cms||---
April 16, 2020||Ranchi||Simdega police seals village of Covid patient||Gumla: The Simdega administration on Wednesday collected blood and swab samples of 12 persons from Thetaitangar after a 17-year-old boy from the village tested positive for Covid-19 a day earlier. “After we received instructions from deputy commissioner Mirtyunjay Kumar Barnawal, the village and its adjoining area were sanitized and then sealed,” Thetaitangar BDO Manoj Kumar said. District officials said the teenager returned to Simdega on March 31 after staying briefly at a mosque in Balsokra village under Chanho block of Ranchi district. Kumar said the teenager returned with three more persons, while another group of two people returned separately. “Among the five, only one tested positive. The others have been quarantined. So far, 32 persons have been tested,” Simdega civil surgeon P K Sinha said. A door-to-door survey is being carried out in the containment zone, added Sinha. “The corona-positive teenager had visited Balsokra to attend a religious congregation,” said a senior police officer in Lohardaga. One of the persons he met has been traced to Kuru in Lohardaga, the officer added. “The movement of public in the containment zone has been curbed, while a control room has been set up at Thetaitangar police station to assist the residents in procuring essentials,” Simdega SP Sanjiv Kumar said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/simdega-police-seals-village-of-covid-patient/articleshow/75166966.cms||---
April 16, 2020||Kolkata||Evacuation bus fuels virus buzz in Darj, 1 arrested||Darjeeling: A bus with a Haryana registration plate, which stopped in Darjeeling on Wednesday to pick up two Spanish tourists and a Portuguese national, fuelled Covid-19 rumours and sparked panic in the hills, prompting police to arrest one person for spreading canards against the three foreigners. Police said the bus was taking foreign tourists stuck in various parts of the country to Delhi following directives from the Union home and external affairs ministries. It had picked up three French tourists and an Italian and a Spanish national from Manipur before making the Darjeeling halt en route to the national capital. “The Union home ministry has started a process of sending back stranded (foreign) tourists in India to their respective countries. Accordingly, a bus reached Darjeeling to take back three foreigners stuck here since the lockdown,” said T S Nath, inspector in-charge of Darjeeling Sadar police station. Nath said the two Spanish tourists and the Portuguese national were taken back to Delhi on special requests of their embassies. “Various embassies have arranged for chartered flights to take their citizens back home. The MHA is facilitating the return and it is an ongoing process. The three nationals have been here for over two months,” the officer said, adding safety protocol was followed and the bus scanned at various checkpoints before being allowed to enter Darjeeling town. Nath refused to give numbers of stranded tourists in the hills, but sources said before the first lockdown, around 40-45 were stuck here. “A few days ago, two Spaniards and an Australian were sent back following an MHA order,” a source said.  “These tourists are not the ones that come for a few days and return. They stay on for six months and even more in rented houses or homestays,” Nath said.“One should verify things before spreading rumours. It is dangerous. Our special monitoring cell will look into the incident and take necessary action against the person arrested,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/evacuation-bus-fuels-virus-buzz-in-darj-1-arrested/articleshow/75170587.cms||Deep Gazmer
April 16, 2020||Kolkata||Jhargram teen cremated in Kol amid corona fears||Belpahari (Jhargram): A tribal woman’s attempt to cremate her 13-year-old daughter forced her to travel 200km from a Kolkata hospital to her Belpahari village and then return to Kolkata on Wednesday morning to perform the last rites. Residents of tribal-inhabited Purnapani in Belpahari put up stiff resistance on Tuesday night and refused to allow the cremation there amid Covid-19 rumours. Local police helped Fulmoni Sabar, who worked at an ice factory in Andhra Pradesh’s Gannavaram, and her family bring the body to Kolkata, where Nandita Sabar’s last rites were performed at Keoratala crematorium. Nandita and her elder sister Sunita (15) lived at an ashram hostel in Bishnupur, South 24 Parganas, and studied in the adjoining school. Down with fever, Nandita was taken to Chittaranjan National Medical College and Hospital on March 31 and died that night. In Fulmoni’s absence (the children’s father had deserted them) and Sunita being a minor, the postmortem could not be conducted and the body was kept in the hospital morgue. On hearing of Nandita’s death, Fulmoni contacted West Bengal Lodha Sabar Samaj whose working president Jharna Acharya called the Jhargram district authorities. The latter contacted their counterparts in Gannavaram. Fulmoni’s employer arranged a vehicle, which she boarded on Monday morning. She reached Kolkata — 1,200km away — on Tuesday and went straight to the hospital. After the post mortem and magisterial inquest. Fulmoni and Sunita left for Purnapani with the body in a hearse organised by the ashram hostel authorities. Fulmoni said: “I was first informed that my daughter was down with fever. Later, I was told that she had passed away.” At Purnapani late on Tuesday, locals refused to let Fulmoni cremate Nandita at the burning ghat, fearing the girl may be a Covid-19 victim. Fulmoni went to Belpahari police station with the body. With police help, the body was brought back to the city and the girl was cremated at Keoratala. The Jhargram administration made arrangements to keep Fulmoni and Sunita in quarantine at Belpahari hospital to allay locals’ fears.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/jhargram-teen-cremated-in-kol-amid-corona-fears/articleshow/75170595.cms||Sujay Khanra
April 16, 2020||Ranchi||Ranchi: Another Hindpiri man tests positive for Covid-19||RANCHI: A 50-year-old man from Ranchi’s Hindpiri locality tested positive for Covid-19 on Wednesday, taking the city’s tally to 14 and the state’s to 28 (26 active, while two have died). He has been shifted to the Covid-19 block at Rims and five members of his family have been moved to the isolation ward at the same hospital. Ranchi SDM Lokesh Mishra said, “Samples of all six members of this family was collected on Monday. The patient’s family members will be retested for the viral infection.” Sources said the man regularly visits Hindpiri’s mosques, where members of the Tablighi Jamaat earlier found positive, had stayed. State health department secretary Nitin Madan Kulkarni said, “The patient was detected positive after his samples were collected during a contact-tracing exercise on Monday.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/another-hindpiri-man-tests-positive-for-covid-19/articleshow/75167786.cms||Gaurav Pandey
April 16, 2020||World||Emirates starts ‘quick blood tests’ for flyers||NEW DELHI: Move over thermal scanning, blood tests to ensure passengers are corona-free and fit to fly are also here now. On Wednesday, mega carrier Emirates at Dubai Airport conducted quick blood tests on people it was to fly to Tunisia before allowing them to board the aircraft, making it the first airline “to conduct on-site rapid COVID-19 tests for passengers.” Top officials of some Indian airports and airlines say they are studying this and seeing if it can or should be done here too. “We are exploring this option,” said a senior official of a leading Indian airport. Emirates CEO Adel Al Redha said: “The testing process has gone smoothly…. We are working on plans to scale up testing capabilities in the future and extend it to other flights, this will enable us to conduct on-site tests and provide immediate confirmation for Emirates passengers travelling to countries that require COVID-19 test certificates. The health and safety of staff and passengers at the airport remain of paramount importance.” The quick blood test was conducted by Dubai Health Authority (DHA) and results were available within 10 minutes. This test was done at the group check-in area of Dubai International Airport Terminal 3. DHA DG Humaid Al Qutami said: “We are glad to work with Emirates on the successful implementation of rapid COVID-19 testing at the airport for departing travellers. To tackle COVID-19, we have been proactively working with various governmental organisations and… have implemented all necessary measures from public health protection.…” Emirates is the largest foreign airline in India, in terms of flying people in and out of the country. A significant proportion of Indians flying Emirates are travelling between India and rest of the world via the airline’s Dubai mega hub. Emirates’ check-in and boarding formalities have also been adapted with social distancing in mind. Protective barriers have been installed at each check-in desk to provide additional safety measures to passengers and employees during any interaction. Gloves, masks and hand sanitisers have been made mandatory for Emirates’ employees at the airport. Passengers are also required to wear their own masks when at the airport and on board the aircraft, and follow social distancing guidelines. Like many airlines, Emirates has modified its inflight services for health and safety reasons. While food and beverages will continue to be offered on board, packaging and presentation has been be modified to reduce contact during meal service and minimise risk of interaction. “Cabin baggage are currently not accepted on flights. Carry-on items allowed in the cabin are limited to laptop, handbag, briefcase or baby items. All other items have to be checked in, and Emirates will add the cabin baggage allowance to customers’ check-in baggage allowance. All Emirates aircraft will go through enhanced cleaning and disinfection processes in Dubai, after each journey,” the airline said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//world/middle-east/emirates-starts-quick-blood-tests-for-flyers/articleshow/75171453.cms||---
April 16, 2020||Ranchi||Jharkhand cops issue fresh advisory against social media misuse||RANCHI: Jharkhand Police on Wednesday issued a fresh advisory asking people to desist from posting or forwarding hate messages on social media. The advisory warned that non-compliance will invite strict legal action, including arrest. The advisory is aimed at curbing the spread of inflammatory content on various social media platforms, such as Twitter, WhatsApp and Facebook. The advisory said, “Amid this coronavirus crisis, a lot of fake news, misinformation and hate content, messages, speeches and videos are being circulated on social media platforms like WhatsApp, Twitter, Instagram, Facebook, TikTok and YouTube. Such messages can lead to large-scale panic. Never share any obscene things or sexually explicit content in the group” It added, “Admins of WhatsApp and Facebook groups and creators of YouTube channels should regularly monitor the content and inform police if any member shares objectionable matter. Repeat offenders must be removed from the group. The group members are expected not to post, like or forward any fake news or hate speech received from other members. They should never share content that is violent or hurtful to the sentiments of followers of any religion. The individuals are also not expected to post details of Covid-19 patients or those of their relatives.” "Before posting, forwarding or circulating any news, image, video or meme you receive, check its source and veracity. Refrain from posting, forwarding news and newspaper reports which can spread hatred or breach of peace," the police said. Inspector general Navin Kumar said, “The outreach of social media is huge and messages posted there can spread at an exponential rate. Police are taking the threat from the circulation of hate messages and fake news seriously.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/cops-issue-fresh-advisory-against-social-media-misuse/articleshow/75167831.cms||---
April 16, 2020||Ranchi||Jh​arkhand high court takes cognizance of Hindipiri lockdown violations||RANCHI: The Jharkhand high court on Wednesday took cognizance of a TOI photograph showing rampant violation of the nationwide lockdown in Hindpiri area, the epicentre of the Covid-19 outbreak in the city. On April 15, TOI carried a photograph of Md Irfan, a caretaker of RJD president Lalu Prasad, moving around freely on a two-wheeler in the locality, which has 13 coronavirus cases. Lalu, who is serving time in various fodder scam cases, is admitted at Rajendra Institute of Medical Sciences (Rims) for various ailments. Justice Sanjay Kumar Dwiwedi observed that the photograph suggests that it is a matter of concern for the court that people are wandering around in the area despite clear-cut instructions issued by the Union home ministry. “It seems from the publication that the state as well as the district administration is not handling the situation properly to restrict the spread of the virus to other parts of the city,” he said. Justice Dwiwedi added, “The court takes suo moto cognizance of the reports and directs the registrar general to place the matter before a division bench.” He also asked the registrar general to communicate the order to Ranchi deputy commissioner Rai Mahimapat Ray, SSP Anish Gupta and advocate general Rajiv Ranjan. Meanwhile, the state government is considering whether to shift the former Bihar CM to a separate block in the state-run hospital to ensure he is not infected. Notably, an isolation ward has been set up in the building where the paying ward is situated. Lalu is housed at the first floor of same building. Talking to TOI, IG (prisons) Shashi Ranjan said: “We have taken cognizance of the reports and I have written to the superintendent of the Birsa Munda Central Prison asking him to examine all aspects on shifting Lalu Prasad to any other block. A decision will be taken as per the norms.” Irfan has been taking care of Lalu’s need since September 2018, when he was admitted to Rims. On Tuesday, he was spotted at Hindpiri meeting a local resident. Talking to TOI, Irfan on Wednesday confirmed he had visited the locality meet a relative in and went to Rims from there. On being inquired about Irfan’s continuous visit to paying ward of RIMS, Ranjan said, “There is a blanket ban on visitors for Lalu since the outbreak of Covid-19.” Sources said state health secretary Nitin Madan Kulkarni has already spoken to Rims authorities and asked them to take necessary precaution at the paying ward. Doctors treating Lalu also raised concerns about the threat of infection at paying ward. “Health workers, including doctors, nursing staff, paramedics and cleanliness staff, who visit the isolation ward also have access to the first floor of the paying ward. We cannot rule out possibility of infection for Lalu or any other person visiting the building. In my opinion, it will be better if he is shifted to a secluded area,” said a senior doctor at Rims.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/hc-takes-cognizance-of-hindipiri-lockdown-violations/articleshow/75167900.cms||Sanjay Sahay
April 16, 2020||Bengaluru||Coronavirus: Mysuru district pips Bengaluru, logs most active cases; Bagalkot cop tests positive||BENGALURU: Two Covid-19 patients died in Karnataka and nine more employees of the Nanjangud pharma firm tested positive on Wednesday, pushing Mysuru ahead of Bengaluru Urban as the district with most active cases of Covid-19. Mysuru has 46 patients under treatment against 34 in Bengaluru. Minister Suresh Kumar, in charge of Covid-19 briefings, said the pharma company owner had been traced to Delhi and efforts were on to find him. Across Karnataka, 19 cases were reported in the past 24 hours — a record jump — taking the total number of infected to 279. Four of those infected were primary contacts. The state toll touched 12 with the two deaths: A 65-yearold Chikkaballapura man who had tested positive died at Victoria Hospital on Wednesday; an 80-year-old woman from Belagavi died on Monday and was confirmed positive later. Health authorities said the Chikkaballapura man was suffering from chronic obstructive pulmonary disease with obstructive sleep apnea and had a history of uncontrolled diabetes and hypertension. He had also tested positive for H1N1Influenza A and was brought to Victoria on April 13. The Belagavi woman was a secondary contact of a Tablighi Jamaat delegate from the district. Another potential TJ link cropped up as a constable in Bagalkot tested positive days after he was deployed for bandobast at a madrasa in Mudhol taluk. Twenty-five people had gathered for prayers on March 27, leading to a lathicharge. Among the participants was a TJ delegate from Gujarat who went on to test positive. The 39-yearold is the first cop on duty to test positive in the state.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/coronavirus-mysuru-district-pips-bengaluru-logs-most-active-cases-bagalkot-cop-tests-positive/articleshow/75171478.cms||Sunitha Rao R
April 16, 2020||Mumbai||Man seeks son's custody to 'guard him from corona', Bombay HC rejects plea||MUMBAI: There is no reason to disbelieve that the "natural mother of a child" would not guard him from the coronavirus, observed the Bombay high court on Wednesday while declining to give a man custody of his underage son during the lockdown. Justice Ravi Deshpande, through videoconference, heard a plea by the father (43) in a pending petition by the mother (35), who has custody of their 7-year-old son, challenging weekend access granted to him by the family court in December 2018. The estranged couple are based in south Mumbai. The father told the judge that the boy stays with his mother and grandmother in a Girgaum chawl with a common-use toilet. "There is one toilet for many residents. It is known that coronavirus infection is caught through surface contact. There is no sanitation. I am concerned about my son catching infection. His mother will not be able to take care of him and protect him," the man argued in person. He also submitted that social distancing is not practised in chawls as neighbours visit one another all the time. "They go to each other's homes," he said, informing the court that he lives in a 1,500 sq ft flat with private toilets and urging that his son's custody be given to him during the lockdown. "At least till the lockdown gets over, I may be given custody," he said. But Justice Ravi Deshpande was disinclined to grant him relief and questioned how he could say that the mother won't take care of her child. The judge noted in his order that there was no urgency "in the matter involved and there is no reason to disbelieve that the natural mother of the child would not take care of the child properly".||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/man-seeks-sons-custody-to-guard-him-from-corona-bombay-hc-rejects-plea/articleshow/75171497.cms||Rosy Sequeira
April 16, 2020||Bengaluru||FB-savvy rowdy held for raping, extorting minor in Bengaluru||BENGALURU: A 26-year-old rowdy landed in police custody for allegedly raping and blackmailing a minor girl from Bengaluru and extorting Rs 57,000 and 500 grams of gold from her. B Dhanush alias Abhishek Gowda of Madhugiri taluk in Tumakuru district had at least 50 homemakers and girls on his Facebook friends list. He allegedly blackmailed several of them after enticing them into a relationship with him. Dhanush, who also worked as a part-time cab driver with a travel agency in Tumakuru, faces11criminalcases,including for attempt to murder, burglary and robbery. Police have recovered a laptop, a mobile phone and 272 grams of gold from him. “We suspect that Dhanush had stolen the laptop from a house in Tumakuru,” police said. Forced girl to give gold, cashEarlier this week, a 42-year-old woman filed a complaint with Nandini Layout police in North division, alleging that the accused had raped her 17-year-old daughter and blackmailed her after filming the act. He befriended the girl on Facebook in November 2019, identifying himself as Abhishek Gowda of Rajajinagar II Block. Gradually, the two became close friends. In January this year, Abhishek took the girl to a hotel in Rajajinagar and raped her. He filmed the act and began blackmailing her by threatening to upload the video on social media. Worried, the girl stole gold and cash from her house and handed them to Abhishek. Later, the girl’s mother found that Rs 57,000 and 500 grams of gold ornaments were missing. When questioned, the girl narrated the entire incident. Based on the complaint, police arrested Dhanush from his house in Madhugiri.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/fb-savvy-rowdy-held-for-raping-extorting-minor-in-bengaluru/articleshow/75171494.cms||---
April 16, 2020||Bengaluru||Bengaluru: 23-year-old man nabbed for kicking co-worker to death over trivial issue||BENGALURU: A 23-year-old employee of a mineral water supplying unit was arrested for allegedly murdering his co-worker over a trivial issue at their workplace on Narayan Pillai Street, Bharathinagar, on Monday morning.  Pintu Kumar, 20, from Bihar was allegedly kicked to death by his colleague Nipu Das, 23, from Assam.  At 10.30am, unit owner Saravanan S noticed that Kumar and Das were quarrelling over some petty issue while loading water bottles on to a mini-goods vehicle. "I rushed to stop them. But by that time Das had punched and kicked Kumar, who fell unconscious. I rushed him to a nearby hospital, where doctors declared him brought dead," Saravanan told police. Bharathinagar police have taken up a case of murder and arrested Das.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/bengaluru-23-year-old-man-nabbed-for-kicking-co-worker-to-death-over-trivial-issue/articleshow/75171504.cms||---
April 16, 2020||Hyderabad||Telangana sees red as Centre puts 8 districts in hotspots list, leaves out key spots||HYDERABAD: Centre’s list of hotspots (red zones) and nonhotspots for Covid-19 cases has left officials in Telangana baffled. State officials said the exercise defied logic as the districts with large number of coronavirus positive cases Telangana did not figure in the central list of red zones, while those with relatively less cases did. Eights districts — Hyderabad, Nizamabad, Warangal Urban, Rangareddy, Jogulamba-Gadwal, Medchal-Malkajgiri, Karimnagar and Nirmal — were bracketed under the red zone category, while 19 districts were listed as non-hotspots. A senior health official told TOI that though Vikarabad reported 32 cases and Suryapet 23, they were not in the red zone. “Karimnagar district which has 19 cases (only four left as 15 have been discharged) has been demarcated as a red zone. Similarly, Medchal-Malkajgiri, which has only two cases (other than GHMC area), is listed among the hotspots,” he said. While the state authorities were clueless on the Cenrte’s criteria for the list, senior health officials said they would go ahead with the containment plan (hotspots) by restricting the movement of people in the identified 259 locations and areas in the state.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/telangana-sees-red-as-centre-puts-8-districts-in-hotspots-list-leaves-out-key-spots/articleshow/75171506.cms||Koride Mahesh
April 16, 2020||Mumbai||Mumbai: In U-turn, BMC says won’t use antimalarial as preventive drug||MUMBAI: Citing "heart complications", the BMC has done a complete U-turn on an earlier controversial decision to give an anti-malarial pill as preventive medication to around one lakh people in the city's Covid-19 hotspots of Dharavi and Worli. Now only a few hundreds will be given the medication, it is learnt.  The antimalarial drug, hydrocholorquine sulphate (HCQS), is being given as a prophylaxis to frontline healthcare workers and the police force. It is also used to treat patients with mild Covid-19 symptoms in hospitals.  On Wednesday, BMC commissioner Praveen Pardeshi told TOI, "We have had a rethink on it (the HCQS plan) after it was pointed out that there are chances of heart-related complications." Three days back, Pardeshi had spelt out details of the plan to disburse 50,000 tablets in Dharavi and Worli each. Pardeshi said, "It has now been decided to administer the medicines only to frontline health workers and those in institutional quarantines who can be monitored continuously." As per the new plan, around 100 high-risk contacts of patients will be given the tablet in Dharavi. The HCQS plan was reviewed on Wednesday by BMC and state officials. Mumbai mayor Kishori Pednekar, who is a local corporator from the area, had earlier in the day said the BMC would administer HCQS to high-risk contacts of Covid-19 cases in Worli. Health officials said BMC "wants to go slow with HCQS option". Many experts such as Dr Zarir Udwadia, who is a member of a state taskforce team on coronavirus care, had raised the issue of "fatal cardiac toxicity" linked to HCQS use.  At Dharavi, where the tablets were to be first administered Thursday onward, the scheduled training for civic doctors and health workers did not take place. Pardeshi also visited Dharavi on Wednesday to take stock of the situation arising due to rising number of cases in the area; the tally is 60 cases including eight deaths.  The institutional quarantine facility at the Rajiv Gandhi District Sports Complex in Dharavi has nearly 100 suspect cases. Civic officials said the tablet would be given to these patients only after a team of doctors and paramedical staff are stationed there. The civic body is planning to rope in private doctors, nurses and paramedical staff to handle quarantine centres across the city. Meanwhile, Worli has three institutional quarantine centres - at the National Sports Club of India (NSCI) at Lala Lajpatrai Marg, Worli Koli Samaj Bhavan and Vissava Guest House where 500 people can be quarantined.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/bmc-backtracks-on-use-of-anti-malarial-drug/articleshow/75171510.cms||Malathy Iyer
April 16, 2020||Hyderabad||Covid-19 patient arrested in Hyderabad for beating up doctor, 3 others also in the soup||HYDERABAD: In perhaps a rare instance, a Covid-19 patient was arrested on Wednesday for allegedly attacking a doctor on coronavirus duty at Gandhi Hospital recently. As he is recuperating at another hospital, police produced the 23-year-old patient and his brother before a court through video conference. The judge remanded them in judicial custody, but the patient would be kept at the hospital itself till he recovers. His brother will be sent for isolation in the prisoner's ward at Gandhi Hospital. On April 1, the Covid-19 patient and his brother reportedly attacked a resident doctor on duty after his 56-year-old relative, also a Covid-19 patient, died due to co-morbidities. As junior doctors protested at Gandhi Hospital, a Covid-19 nodal centre, the duo was immediately shifted to another hospital. City police warns of jail sentenceTwo relatives of another suspect were arrested on Wednesday for attacking a PG medical student at Osmania General Hospital (OGH) on Tuesday. Family members of the quarantined man had beaten up the PG medico demanding that he be discharged. The man’s test later turned up positive. The two relatives were produced before a court through video conference. All the four accused were booked under Sections 332, 188 , 269, 270, 271 of the Indian Penal Code and relevant sections of the Epidemic Diseases Act, 1897, and the Telangana Medicare Service Persons and Medicare Service Institutions Act, 2008. “Hyderabad city police is committed to taking prompt action against anyone who attacks doctors or medical staff,” Hyderabad police commissioner Anjani Kumar said. He warned that any person attacking a doctor would be arrested.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/covid-19-patient-arrested-in-hyderabad-for-beating-up-doctor-3-others-also-in-the-soup/articleshow/75171515.cms||---
April 16, 2020||India||Govt greenlights limited reboot: Select sectors & services like plumbers & electricians to resume from April 20||NEW DELHI: The Centre on Wednesday set the ball rolling for a limited resumption of economic activity outside Covid-19 containment zones, particularly in industrial zones and rural areas, while prescribing strict workplace norms and permits that businesses need to follow to commence operations from April 20. Though instructions have been issued under the Disaster Management Act, Union home secretary A K Bhalla’s order to states and Union territories makes it clear that the “additional activities” will be “operationalised” by state and local authorities “based on strict compliance of existing guidelines on lockdown measures”. The extended lockdown is to be reviewed to allow areas where hotspots have been contained or have been prevented from emerging after a week on April 20. The restarting of MNREGA and the relatively lower degree of curbs in rural areas (largely unaffected or with low incidence of Covid-19) are intended to get the rural economy moving again, said a ministry of home affairs spokesperson. The norms set out for SEZs and industrial centres are a move to experiment with conditional reopening and may well become more permanent features in the future. The resumption of these activities will be subject to adherence to social distancing norms at workplaces, including mandatory wearing of masks by all workers, regular sanitisation of common surfaces, and staggered work-shifts with even limits on people attending a meeting or getting into a lift, the home ministry said. No mass transport, even inter-district, is allowed. The lockdown is tougher in containment areas. As is already the case, farming activities and procurement is permitted and the movement of cargo and supply chains relating to essential items like medicines, groceries and milk are permitted as are kirana shops and a range of utility persons. More on Covid-19Coronavirus pandemic: Complete Coverage21-day lockdown: What will stay open and what won'tHow to quarantine yourself at homeTrust the newspaper for your daily verified newsNon-adherence to the norms come with strict penalties, including action under the Indian Penal Code and the Disaster Management Act with senior company officials as well as government officers facing the rap. For government officers, the example of a violation is significant: Failure to enforce an order banning a religious procession will be dereliction of duty, indicating the Centre's low tolerance for any breach of social distancing and communal disharmony. The guidelines allow a large chunk of manufacturing in factories located in special economic zones, industrial estates and outside municipal limits, while also letting IT units and BPOs operate at half capacity. Companies have been asked to provide transport to workers, and accommodation in certain areas, and also ensure that the workplace, lifts, cafeterias and buses are not crowded and are sanitised. It's time to mask up and stay safe: Join TOI's #MaskIndia campaignThe move to open businesses in several pockets of the country was hinted at by Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Tuesday, where he had made it clear that only "safe zones" will be the so-called green corridors for economic activity. In these areas, the idea is to ensure livelihood to the poor, who depend on daily wages, by working in farms, mandis, factories or as plumbers, carpenters and mechanics. An effort has also been made to ensure that the entire ecosystem for any economic activity is in place. So, dhabas and repair shops are now allowed to open on highways to ensure smooth passage of trucks. The norms build upon earlier instructions and also seek to end several ambiguities by ending the distinction between transport of essential and non-essential items and also explicitly provide for running of empty trucks, which may be on their way to pick up a consignment or returning after unloading goods. While the corporate sector had been discussing the protocol with the government, companies are going to start preparations for resuming work only now. For businesses, especially the small players, the big worry is getting permission from local authorities and arranging manpower to run the plants since a large chunk of migrant workers have gone back. Along with business, the government sought to build upon a limited start with the instructions making it clear that all officers at the rank of deputy secretary and above will have to return to work although lower staff can continue to work with 33% attendance.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/guidelines-for-lockdown-india-select-sectors-services-like-plumbers-electricians-to-resume-after-apr-20/articleshow/75170568.cms||---
April 16, 2020||Business||On ground too, it takes a lot to keep a plane fit and ready to fly||NEW DELHI: Aircraft are designed to fly. Which is why, when they are grounded for weeks together, different parts of the flying machines start whining. The workload goes up, especially for the undercarriage that rests on wheels. When life was normal, an A320 aircraft for instance would be at work 14-15 hours a day, flying passengers to domestic destinations. But after the coronavirus rendered it temporarily jobless, its tyres were suddenly left to bear—24/7—the over-75,000kg that the behemoth weighs. If parked in one position for days together, tyres tend to develop a flat spot. “To avoid that, the aircraft should be moved every three days. Towing tractors move them forward and backward in order to rotate the tyres so that a different point is left in contact with the ground,’’ said a senior Air India aircraft maintenance engineer requesting anonymity. Indian carriers operate a fleet of around 650 aircraft; of this, a few have been operating charter flights and repatriation flights. In the past three weeks then, tow tractor operators across airports would have moved the rest, say about 620 aircraft, to and fro at least seven times each to prevent flat spots. With the lockdown extended, the aircraft will need to “stretch their legs” till May 3. Keeping an aircraft flying is work, but keeping it on the ground is work too. “With the grounding, the workload of aircraft engineers and technicians has only gone down by 35-40%," says the engineer, listing the maintenance routine around an aircraft, even when it’s left parked for the long haul. Last week, the US aviation regulator ordered airlines to switch their Boeing 787 Dreamliner aircraft on and off every 51 days to prevent “potentially catastrophic failure scenarios’’ in the future. For all other aircraft, once every month the engine needs to be switched on and left to run for about 15 minutes—to allow oil to wash through the engine parts and prevent corrosion. Then there is the “A check", which for an A320 for instance, has to be carried out every 90 days or after 750 flying hours. “It takes about 250-400 manhours to complete an A-check," said an A320 engineer, adding that an airline fleet goes through time-bound checks, irrespective of whether flying is banned or not. D Anand Bhaskar, CEO of Air Works, a major aircraft maintenance, repair and overhaul company, said that they are currently maintaining and preserving aircraft as per a guidance of “parking period of less than 1 month and in flight-ready condition”. “If the parking period is further extended, we may need to perform additional tasks on engines— to protect the external surface from climate conditions; the engine fuel system, to avoid corrosion and contamination in pumps, gear box, etc; the fuel system, to avoid microbiological contamination; landing gear, to prevent corrosion and ensure smooth operation; water and toilet system, to avoid formation of contamination, corrosion, and to ensure cleanliness,” said Bhaskar. Besides, all open ports exposed to the atmosphere have to be blanketed to prevent deterioration due to environmental factors and to discourage birds from building their nests, he added. An Air India engineer said: “The maintenance plan is followed rigorously, else the regulator might cancel the airworthiness certificate granted to the aircraft." After all, unlike a car or a bus, an aircraft cannot be halted and pulled aside if it develops a problem mid-air.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/on-ground-too-it-takes-a-lot-to-keep-a-plane-fit-and-ready-to-fly/articleshow/75171508.cms||Manju V
April 16, 2020||Amaravati||Five deaths in Andhra Pradesh in one day, toll 14; positive cases mount to 502||VIJAYAWADA: Andhra Pradesh on Wednesday recorded five more Covid-19 deaths and 42 new cases, taking the state's positive tally to 525. The Covid-19 toll has increased to 14, which includes two doctors. With cases increasing, the Centre on Wednesday identified 11 of the 13 districts in AP as "hot spots" and asked state health authorities to take stringent lockdown measures to contain the spread of novel coronavirus. Among the 42 new cases, 13 were registered in Kurnool, 8 each in Guntur and West Godavari, 6 in Kurnool, 3 in Kadapa, 2 in Nellore and one case each in Anantapur and Krishna. Guntur continued to lead the state's case load with 122 positive cases. Even Kurnool crossed the century mark with a total cases at 110. Of the five deaths reported on Wednesday, two victims hailed from Kummari Bazaar in Guntur. 4 patients cured and dischargedThese two cases were detected during community screening. One of them was 63-year-old man, who was admitted to GGH Guntur on April 8. He, reportedly suffering from diabetes and other cardiac issues, died on April 13. The other victim from Guntur was a 52-year-old man and had co-morbidities such as diabetes and respiratory complaints. He succumbed on April 13. A56-year-old man, originally from Delhi, died of the disease in Nellore on April 13. A doctor in Kurnool also succumbed to the pandemic on April 14. The doctor had pre-existing medical conditions such as chronic kidney disease, diabetes and hypertension. The other deceased was a 74-year-old woman from Vijayawada. Even though she died on April 12, she tested positive posthumously on April 14. Officials said four patients were cured and discharged from hospital. According to the authorities, all four patients attended the Tablighi Jamat meeting in March in Delhi.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/amaravati/five-deaths-in-andhra-pradesh-in-one-day-toll-14-positive-cases-mount-to-502/articleshow/75174370.cms||Umamaheswara Rao
April 16, 2020||Vijayawada||Five deaths in Andhra Pradesh in one day, toll 14; positive cases mount to 502||VIJAYAWADA: Andhra Pradesh on Wednesday recorded five more Covid-19 deaths and 42 new cases, taking the state's positive tally to 525. The Covid-19 toll has increased to 14, which includes two doctors. With cases increasing, the Centre on Wednesday identified 11 of the 13 districts in AP as "hot spots" and asked state health authorities to take stringent lockdown measures to contain the spread of novel coronavirus. Among the 42 new cases, 13 were registered in Kurnool, 8 each in Guntur and West Godavari, 6 in Kurnool, 3 in Kadapa, 2 in Nellore and one case each in Anantapur and Krishna. Guntur continued to lead the state's case load with 122 positive cases. Even Kurnool crossed the century mark with a total cases at 110. Of the five deaths reported on Wednesday, two victims hailed from Kummari Bazaar in Guntur. 4 patients cured and dischargedThese two cases were detected during community screening. One of them was 63-year-old man, who was admitted to GGH Guntur on April 8. He, reportedly suffering from diabetes and other cardiac issues, died on April 13. The other victim from Guntur was a 52-year-old man and had co-morbidities such as diabetes and respiratory complaints. He succumbed on April 13. A56-year-old man, originally from Delhi, died of the disease in Nellore on April 13. A doctor in Kurnool also succumbed to the pandemic on April 14. The doctor had pre-existing medical conditions such as chronic kidney disease, diabetes and hypertension. The other deceased was a 74-year-old woman from Vijayawada. Even though she died on April 12, she tested positive posthumously on April 14. Officials said four patients were cured and discharged from hospital. According to the authorities, all four patients attended the Tablighi Jamat meeting in March in Delhi.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/five-deaths-in-andhra-pradesh-in-one-day-toll-14-positive-cases-mount-to-502/articleshow/75171529.cms||Umamaheswara Rao
April 16, 2020||Bengaluru||Bengaluru: Jayamahal Road’s 1-km mango market shrinks to just 2 stalls||BENGALURU: A 55-year-old tradition celebrating the arrival of the king of fruits on a Bengaluru street has ground to a halt for the first time due to the Covid-19 crisis. At least 75 stalls selling mangoes would line up on a 1-km stretch of Jayamahal Main Road in JC Nagar every year. But this time, the famous mango street has reduced to a two-outlet token affair. The market would see sale of over 50 mango varieties from across the country and mainly various districts in Karnataka. This time, however, variety is the first casualty given that only two stalls, about 50 metres apart, have been allowed to open. The mango market started in 1965, according to the city’s chroniclers. Scores of traders, mainly from Tamil Nadu, would set up shop on the pavement in the end of March and would wind up only towards mid-June. Farmers often arrived with tractorfuls of the yield and sold it here. Stalls butting each other selling mango varieties, including alphonso, raspuri, totapuri, banganapalli, kesar, badami, mallika, sindura and immanpasand, looked picture perfect. Bengalureans thronged the stretch to buy the fruit, which was sold at nominal prices with enough room for bargaining. But thanks to the lockdown, most of the stretch is now fenced off with barbed wire. “We have just six varieties, including alphonso, immanpasand and malgova, sourced locally on our scooters. Supply from other districts or states has completely stopped and we obviously don’t have customers,” laments Rasheed, owner of one of the two outlets. Police have granted permission for only two stalls on the street citing social-distancing norms as more shops will surely attract crowds despite the lockdown. “Love for mangoes knows no rules or relaxations. People will surely come to buy and then the situation could become uncontrollable,” says Pasha, who managed to get police nod as he’s been a seller here every year since 1990. (Some names have been changed on request)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/bengaluru-jayamahal-roads-1-km-mango-market-shrinks-to-just-2-stalls/articleshow/75171533.cms||Petlee Peter
April 16, 2020||India||Covid-19 hotspots marked in 170 districts, 207 more under close watch||NEW DELHI: The government has identified 170 districts with Covid-19 hotspots or 'red zone' areas, including in all six metros-Delhi, Mumbai, Kolkata, Chennai, Bengaluru and Hyderabad. Other large cities such as Bhopal, Agra, Gurugram, Noida and Faridabad also have hotspots. Besides, 207 districts-where the rate of doubling is currently low but which can be potential hotspots-have been classified as 'non-hotspots' or 'white zones'. Apart from this, there are 'green zone' districts with no new confirmed Covid-19 case in the last 28 days. These figures released by the health ministry add up to 377 districts, where the disease has been reported, out of India's total of 732. Districts with hotspots have several such areas that the ministry says are 'clusters' of local transmission, but do not amount to community transmission so far. Lav Agarwal, joint secretary in the health ministry, said India's containment efforts are showing results and highlighted that 11.4% of positive cases reported so far have also recovered. The total number of Covid-19 cases in India has risen to 11,439 with 1,076 fresh cases reported in the last 24 hours while the death toll stands at 377, the ministry official said. It's time to mask up and stay safe: Join TOI's #MaskIndia campaignThe classification-based on growth rate of positive cases of Covid-19-is aimed at strict implementation of containment measures and active surveillance to break the chain of transmission during the extended lockdown period, officials said. Districts with doubling rate less than four days (calculated every Monday for last seven days) or having high caseloads contributing to more than 80% of cases in India, as also in several states, are defined as 'red zones' or hotspots. The hotspots have been further categorised as either 'clusters' with less than 15 cases or 'large outbreaks'. Large outbreaks are districts with either more than 15 cases or where there are multiple clusters. Health officials have said presence of several clusters in an area or city with rapidly multiplying cases and transmission between clusters as well would constitute community transmission. More on Covid-19Coronavirus pandemic: Complete Coverage21-day lockdown: What will stay open and what won'tHow to quarantine yourself at homeTrust the newspaper for your daily verified newsIn a high-level review meeting on Wednesday, cabinet secretary Rajiv Gauba asked all state chief secretaries, health secretaries, DGPs, district collectors, municipal commissioners, SPs, CMOs and other officials of states and UTs to implement containment strategies according to the classification. The health ministry has already issued strategies and guidelines accordingly. These containment strategies describe how to delineate such a zone and a buffer zone. In these containment zones, except for essential services, other movements and activities will be restricted. Cases will be actively monitored and surveyed by special teams in the containment zone as per sampling criteria. In these zones, samples will be collected and tested and in addition testing will also be carried out for influenza-like illness and Severe Acute Respiratory Illness.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/covid-19-hotspots-marked-in-170-districts-207-more-under-close-watch/articleshow/75170329.cms||Sushmi Dey
