April 17, 2020||India||US, India working jointly on Covid vaccine: Pompeo||NEW DELHI: The US and India are working together on Covid-19 therapies and vaccines, and ensuring both countries have access to materials like PPEs and HCQ, said Mike Pompeo, US Secretary of State. Talking to journalists in a tele-conference, Pompeo told TOI, “we (US and India) continue to talk about the bigger issues, free and open Indo-Pacific, challenge of China and trade.” Indicating that India and the US were cooperating beyond Covid, he said, significantly, “We’re paying attention to supply chains. We want to mesh the supply chains that both countries have access to in areas that are important for our national security.” More on Covid-19Coronavirus pandemic: Complete Coverage21-day lockdown: What will stay open and what won'tHow to quarantine yourself at homeTrust the newspaper for your daily verified newsThere is a growing interest in reducing dependence on China from the US, Japan and India. Japan has committed over $2 billion to diversify from China. Denying that the US was “scapegoating” the WHO, he defended Trump’s decision to halt funding to the global health organisation, saying, “we’re demanding that institutions that have missions are doing what they should be. WHO has not lived up to the values it was set up for.” Pompeo said that in his conversations with his counterparts around the world, there was a general agreement that there were serious shortcomings in World Health Organisation (WHO), both in their regulatory and humanitarian assistance functions. “We need data and we need facts,” Pompeo said, about holding China and WHO responsible for the lack information about the origin of the virus and details about China’s handling of it. In the days before China admitted to the scale of the epidemic, Pompeo said there was a lot of travel from Wuhan to different parts of the world, many on hopping flights. This took the virus to the rest of the world. Both Iran and Italy were early destinations of the virus which travelled from China. More on Covid-19Coronavirus pandemic: Complete Coverage21-day lockdown: What will stay open and what won'tHow to quarantine yourself at homeTrust the newspaper for your daily verified newsAnswering questions on changed visa requirements after the pandemic was over, Pompeo indicated that some changes could be incorporated. “Right now we’re focused on fighting the epidemic. We want to go back to being an open world again. But we also have to secure the health and lives of our people. We’re still thinking our way through how we’re going to open up our countries for travel.” There are signs that countries might insist on Covid tests and health certificates after international travel is reopened. Is the US ceding space to China, in the wake of the coronavirus epidemic? Pompeo said, “US and other democracies of the world will come out of this in a way that is better than nations that rely on authoritarian power. It is democracies where the people actually provide solutions. America will be at the front of that.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/us-india-working-jointly-on-covid-vaccine-pompeo/articleshow/75189469.cms||Indrani Bagchi
April 17, 2020||India||Indian missions facilitate procurement of Covid-19 essentials||NEW DELHI: As India scours the world for emergency acquisitions of everything from masks and goggles to testing kits and ventilators, the foreign office has become an unlikely frontline warrior against Covid-19. In the coming weeks, India will receive about 50 ventilators from the US, 200 from Germany and about 1000 from China. Starting tomorrow, India will get about 8 million PPEs over the next seven weeks from different countries. These procurements, and others, are a consequence of Indian missions around the world calling in all their diplomatic equities to stock up the country. On Thursday morning, Vikram Misri, India’s ambassador to Beijing confirmed that the first consignment of testing kits were on their way from China to India. “A total of 650,000 kits, including Rapid Antibody Tests and RNA Extraction Kits have been dispatched early today from Guangzhou Airport to India,” he tweeted. China is proving to be the biggest source of a lot of materials, despite many of their equipment like PPEs failing quality tests. But there is a global shortage of these materials and the marketplace is brutal, according to some diplomats, and is nothing short of the Wild West. Even protective eye-wear is being sourced from China. “We call the ambassador, sometimes even in the middle of the night, and tell him what we need. He does the rest,” said officials involved in the massive procurement drive. In the coming weeks India will receive over 250,000 testing kits from Korea, and altogether about 10 lakh testing kits from Korea, UK, Ireland and Malaysia — all these procurements are seeing diplomats pushing buttons to beat the clock. Indian missions are also being called on to help procure critical components for the manufacture of ventilators in India from US, Germany, Taiwan and Switzerland. In an indication of how poor India’s manufacturing capability actually is, India has to import N-95 masks (for healthcare workers) from different countries. From this week, Zilingo, a fashion-technology startup in Singapore (run by two young Indians, Ankiti Bose and Dhruv Kapoor) will begin supplying a total of 10 million N-95 masks all the way until May-end. Both central and state governments have pitched an initial demand of close to 30 million such masks. The Indian high commission in Singapore brought the two together, meeting a crucial demand. In addition, MEA was asked to source the components for Indian manufacturers to be able to make them here — special chemicals were sourced from Germany and machines from Sri Lanka and Hong Kong, all facilitated by Indian diplomats. MEA also took over the licensing of exports of HCQ to different countries, after the government partially opened exports. As of this week, MEA has sanctioned HCQ tablets to about 55 countries around the world, from the US to Dominican Republic.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/indian-missions-facilitate-procurements-of-covid-19-essentials/articleshow/75189808.cms||Indrani Bagchi
April 17, 2020||Goa||Mohun Bagan’s I-League crown remains safe||PANAJI: Mohun Bagan will not be denied the I-League title even if the All India Football Federation (AIFF) officially cancels the league on Saturday. The AIFF’s league committee will meet on Saturday to take a call on the leagues. With the national lockdown extended till May 3 and no possibility of competitive football being played anytime soon, the I-League, along with other active competitions, will all be cancelled. Mohun Bagan have already been crowned champions with four rounds still to be played. Questions have been asked, particularly by fierce rivals East Bengal, how any team can be named champions if the league has been cancelled. While it’s true there is no provision in the regulations for season extension due to cancellation of games and no mention of what happens if the remaining 41 matches are not played, AIFF still has enough power to take important calls. According to I-League regulations for 2019-20 under Section 14 of matters not provided for, it says “cases of force majeure are to be decided by the I-League Committee, whose decision will be final.” The league committee meets on Saturday and is likely to leave the decision of Mohun Bagan as champions to the AIFF executive committee. “The league committee will decide and discuss the fate of the league and the rest will be in the hands of the executive committee. This is a force majeure situation and the league has never remained incomplete. I could not find anything in the rules too about such a situation,” league committee chairman Subrata Dutta told TOI. The AIFF had sought feedback from all participating clubs about the unusual situation and except East Bengal, Bagan found favour with most other clubs. Punjab FC director Ranit Bajaj said Bagan have a huge point gap and it’s mathematically impossible for any club to overtake them, so they “should be awarded the title and declared well-deserved, rightful winners of the I-League.” Chennai City FC owner Rohit Ramesh also threw his weight behind Bagan. He was the first for the league to be called off since “we already have winners of the I-League decided and have clarity that the runnersup don’t have the AFC slot at this juncture.” Gokulam Kerala owner VC Praveen feels there is “no reason” for Bagan to be denied their I-League crown, while Sandeep Chattoo, owner of Real Kashmir FC, finds it hard to believe that anyone would object to Bagan walking away with the title. East Bengal, though, have a theory of their own. No sooner the Asian Football Confederation (AFC) congratulated Bagan for their triumph, East Bengal logged their complaint. East Bengal general secretary Kalyan Majumdar maintained that there were four rounds still to be played and drew AFC’s attention to clause 22 (Withdrawal, Refusal to play and Penalty) of the I-League regulations which spoke of points deduction if any team withdrew or refused to play. “It is improper to declare Mohun Bagan as I-League champions till the league is finished,” said Majumdar.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/mohun-bagans-i-league-crown-remains-safe/articleshow/75189100.cms||Marcus Mergulhao
April 17, 2020||Business||Covid-19: Govt readying stimulus for corporates, relief for poor||NEW DELHI: The government is giving the final touches to a comprehensive stimulus package that aims to address the concerns of the common man as well as the corporate sector, including large and small businesses battling the impact of the coronavirus and the lockdown that has stalled economic activity. On Thursday, Prime Minister Narendra Modi spent several hours with finance minister Nirmala Sitharaman and her team of officials to discuss the contours of the proposed package, which followed several rounds of consultations at different levels. Sitharaman is understood to have sought inputs from line ministries, states, sections of industry and other stakeholders to work out a detailed plan. The view in the government has been that its immediate priority should be to address problems of the poor and migrant labour affected by shuttered workplaces while it seeks a clearer assessment of the economic fallout — a process that seems to be nearing completion. The extension of the lockdown till May 3 has triggered fresh demands for a stimulus as companies are finding it difficult to pay salaries and meet other costs because of the loss of a large part of their revenue. “We are alive to the problem, the government is sensitive to issues. We’ll try to address the problems in a comprehensive manner,” a senior government official told TOI. The PM has recognised the blow that the highly infectious virus has dealt to the economy, which is why he has repeatedly asked businesses to take care of their employees, the official added. In recent days, international agencies have reduced the global growth forecast with those such as the World Bank, the IMF and Goldman Sachs pegging it between 1.5% and 2%. On Thursday, SBI reduced the projection for the current financial year to 1.1%. Last month, Sitharaman announced a Rs 1.7 lakh crore package for the poor through a mix of direct cash transfer, free foodgrains and LPG cylinders, among other benefits, for three months. Tax and other compliance burden was eased earlier. While sector after sector has come up with a long wishlist, which includes waiver of all charges and levies, the government is mindful of the need to be pragmatic and ensure its package spurs growth. A major handicap is the limit to which the fiscal situation can be stressed given the need to step up spending by providing money to individuals for basic needs, while also ensuring that there is scope to roll it back once the situation improves. After direct transfers for the poor in the Rs 1.7 lakh crore package previously announced, more measures are expected. “Our approach on the economy revival package is thus two-fold. One, fiscal expansion directed towards the bottom of the pyramid and, two, enhanced credit to industry through banks,” said CII director general Chandrajit Banerjee. For companies, cash flow is proving to be a major issue given that sales have dried up and payments from buyers have stopped. "What is required is increasing liquidity and availability of cash flow with companies. The least-cost option is to give people loans where interest subsidy is given along with back-up insurance for banks like the facility for small businesses, said Ficci secretary general Dilip Chenoy. Industry bodies are also arguing that without supporting large companies, which buy goods and use services of smaller businesses, the package will be inadequate.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/govt-readying-stimulus-for-corporates-common-man/articleshow/75189916.cms||---
April 17, 2020||India||Coronavirus: Only 1 in every 24 samples +ve, govt says||NEW DELHI: Only one in every 24 samples tested for Covid-19 in India is positive, the government and Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) said comparing it with the "positivity ratio" of various other countries like Japan, Italy, the US and UK which show a less number of tests for each confirmed case. “In a country like Japan, one out of 11.7 tests turns out to be positive, which is among the highest in the world. Italy tests 6.7 persons for one positive test while the US tests 5.3 persons and UK 3.4,” ICMR chief epidemiologist Dr R R Gangakhedkar said. Reiterating that India’s testing ratio is not low as 23 out of 24 tests are resulting in a negative, he said, “We have a huge population and not all people belong to vulnerable groups. Hence, can't say our testing ratio is low.” The figures offered by the health ministry and ICMR also seemed a response to Congress MP Rahul Gandhi’s remarks using the confirmatory RTPCR. The government on the other hand said the strategy has evolved and testing has expanded with a rise in cases. At present, the testing strategy covers all symptomatic cases as well as hospitalised cases of severe acute respiratory illness. Besides, the government is also using rapid antibody tests for surveillance in hotspots and even in green zones that have not reported any cases. “Our effort is not to miss out on any positive case,” health ministry joint secretary Lav Agarwal said, adding that the testing strategy was based on scientific advice and has been working so far. Government experts have said that testing should not be spread out too thinly but rather pick samples across vulnerable sections along with surveillance and tracking and focus on hotspots. Countering criticism that less number of positive cases reported by India is because inadequate testing is resulting in many cases being missed or not reported, Agarwal said the number only indicates that the advanced action taken by the government has helped to contain the outbreak to some extent. “It is not about the absolute number of testing, but about how our containment measures together with testing, is giving us output. We want to ensure that everyone is tested, as per properly laid down testing criteria,” Agarwal said. According to health ministry, 325 districts in India have not reported any Covid-19 case so far. More on Covid-19Coronavirus pandemic: Complete Coverage21-day lockdown: What will stay open and what won'tHow to quarantine yourself at homeTrust the newspaper for your daily verified newsBesides, the implementation of containment strategies in some districts which had earlier reported Covid-19 cases, have yielded positive results. One of such place is Puducherry’s Mahe district where no case of the infection has been reported in the last 28 days. There are 27 other districts where no positive case has been reported in a fortnight, Agarwal said. On Wednesday, the government divided all of 732 districts across the country in three colour zones – red, white and green – depending on their rate of growth of Covid-19 positive cases. While 170 districts were identified as Covid-19 hotspots or ‘red zone’ areas, whereas 207 districts – where the rate of doubling is currently low but which can be potential hotspots - have been classified as ‘non-hotspots’ or white zones. Apart from these, there are green zone districts with no new confirmed case in last 28 days. The government said the number of districts in zones will change as the situation evolves. On Thursday, the health ministry reported a total of 12,759 confirmed cases so far, while the death toll reached 420. As many as 941 fresh cases and 37 deaths were reported in the last 24 hours. “If our case, fatality rate is 3.3 per cent and the number of people who have recovered so far is around 12 per cent,” Agarwal said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/covid-19-only-1-in-every-24-samples-ve-govt-says/articleshow/75190435.cms||Sushmi Dey
April 17, 2020||Business||Bought air tickets during lockdown? Full refund likely||NEW DELHI: The government provided some relief to air travellers on Thursday when it "advised" airlines to give full refunds to those who booked tickets during the lockdown for domestic and international flights cancelled in that period. However, the respite is not for those who had booked tickets on and before March 24 (after which lockdown started) for flights between March 25 and May 3 (the lockdown period for now). Indian carriers, most nearly bankrupt now, are unable to give full refunds to passengers for flights cancelled in the lockdown period due to a severe liquidity crunch. Like airlines abroad, they are asking passengers to utilise the money paid for flying anytime within up to a year. Passengers seeking refunds are made to suffer big cancellation charges. There has been a major public outcry on this issue. The partial relief is also for a handful who booked tickets and paid airlines during the first lockdown for travel on dates that now fall within the extended lockdown period. "Tickets booked during first lockdown (March 25 - April 14) for travel during second lockdown (April 15-May 3, 2020) and for which payments were received by airlines during first lockdown shall be refunded within three weeks from date of request for cancellation by airlines without levy of cancellation charges," aviation minister H S Puri tweeted on Thursday. "Tickets booked during first lockdown for travel during same period and for which payments were received by airlines during first lockdown shall be refunded within three weeks from date of request for cancellation by airlines without levy of cancellation charges," the minister tweeted. Tickets booked during 1st lockdown for travel during 2nd lockdown (15 April -3 May 2020) & for which payments were… https://t.co/Z0r5RUnFTq— Hardeep Singh Puri (@HardeepSPuri) 1587039104000However not many would have booked travel in that period as most would have known all schedule passenger flights were cancelled. Realising this move provides only partial relief, a senior official said the "reasonable" order "strikes a balance between stakeholders. Airlines need to survive for future refunds and they are facing liquidity issues and other payouts. For others who booked tickets (and are not covered in Thursday’s order), the option of rescheduling remains." More on Covid-19Coronavirus pandemic: Complete Coverage21-day lockdown: What will stay open and what won'tHow to quarantine yourself at homeTrust the newspaper for your daily verified newsIndian carriers, for their part, cite their frail financial health — with many close to bankruptcy — for not being able to give refunds. Their stand of not giving cash refunds and keeping the amount paid as a voucher for future travel has been endorsed by the International Air Transport Association (IATA). With many airlines yet to pay March salaries to employees, the industry has sought relief from the government. "We are among the worst affected industries in this pandemic. We do not have funds for refunds. If forced, we will need to shut shop," said a senior airline official.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/bought-air-tickets-during-lockdown-full-refund-likely/articleshow/75190514.cms||---
April 17, 2020||Goa||Goa borrows to pay salaries, but has money for Rs 35 lakh car for CM||PANAJI: A cash-strapped state government has come out with new guidelines that allows the chief minister and the speaker to purchase any vehicle with a price ceiling of Rs 35 lakh, an increase of Rs 15 lakh from the earlier upper limit that was fixed in 2017. Top sources said the government intends to buy a luxurious seven-seater multi-purpose vehicle for chief minister Pramod Sawant that costs around Rs 35 lakh. The state, which is reeling under Rs 18,000-crore burden with each Goan carrying a per capita debt of Rs 1.5 lakh, borrows Rs 100 crore every fortnight to meet its expenses, including salaries. Senior officials said even salaries of staff for certain grant-in-aid schools and contract staff at the government hospitals were delayed to show a positive treasury balance at the close of the financial year. It is not just the CM and the speaker, but ministers, deputy speaker, leader of opposition, advocate general and chairpersons of commission and those with cabinet rank can now buy a car of a value up to Rs 30 lakh. The guidelines have been revised in view of rise in prices of vehicles and utility aspects of vehicles, stated a memorandum issued by the finance department on March 13. It is not just the politicians and political appointees, but even the bureaucrats have got a windfall. Revised guidelines permit the chief secretary or the chairperson of the government-owned corporations or autonomous bodies to buy a car with an upper limit of Rs 20 lakh. With nearly half of the revenue generated by the state going to pay committed expenditure such as salaries and other administrative costs, the government finds it extremely difficult to fulfil more than 70% of the budget expenditure, said government officials. In his 2020 budget speech, chief minister Pramod Sawant, who also hold the finance portfolio, had highlighted the financial constraints and said 36.9% of the state’s earnings go towards salaries, wages, pension, gratuity and grant-in-aid; 2% goes towards subsidies and 12.7% towards debt repayment. The Rs 100-crore that the state borrows every fortnight is to meet its expenditure requirements and on rare occasions it even borrows to meet revenue expenditure. A top government official said allowing purchase of vehicles of higher value to ministers and others at this stage is obscene, since state’s economy is struggling. “A few days ago, the government constituted a three-member committee under the chief secretary to curtail expenses. It needs to be seen if it suggests a ban on purchase of new vehicles,” he said. “On one hand the government talks about taking austerity measures, but on other it issues orders that give scope for expenses on unimportant heads. The option of hiring vehicles is always open if government is genuinely interested in cutting unwarranted expenses,” said another official. “With tourism sector being badly affecting due to Covid-19 pandemic, tourist taxi owners will be out of job. Tourists taxis can be hired for government use,” he suggested. (With inputs from Newton Sequeira)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/state-borrows-to-pay-salaries-but-has-money-for-rs-35l-car-for-cm/articleshow/75190579.cms||Bindiya Chari
April 17, 2020||India||5 lakh kits land; to be used for surveillance, not diagnosis||NEW DELHI: The much-awaited consignment of five lakh rapid antibody diagnostic kits from China has finally arrived in India but ICMR explained that these are to be used for surveillance and tracking infection trends for Covid-19 and are not meant for diagnosis. The kits will be used in hotspots as well as in coldspots- areas with no reported incidence or low prevalence of Covid-19- to ensure no significant cases are left out of surveillance, officials said. The serology or rapid antibody kits provided by two companies— Lieozon and Wanflo- are meant to detect antibodies developed by a human body to fight the infection and not the infection itself. Hence, this first generation test will be used for surveillance and not early diagnosis, said Dr R R Gangakhedkar, head of epidemiology and communicable diseases at the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR). “If virus enters my body, my body will prepare a weapon to fight this virus which are known as antibodies. Antibodies are exactly the opposite of the virus which is why it disables the virus. There are types of antibodies, the first of these is IGM which does not stay for more than a few days. Detection of IGM antibody means that the infection is recent. When IGG antibody appears, I will know that my immune system is improving. If I see only IGG antibody and no IGM antibody, I can assume that this is an old infection,” Dr Gangakhedkar said explaining the interpretation of the results that these kits provide. Over concerns about quality of rapid antibody tests that have arrived from China in view of the experience of other countries, Dr Gangakhedkar said the sensitivity and specificity of these tests are usually low and therefore, they are best used for research and surveillance instead of diagnosis of Covid-19. “If we conduct the antibody test after 10 days or two weeks, these antibodies will appear in only 80 per cent of the patients. This is why these tests are not used for diagnosis but for surveillance,” he said. Explaining how it is useful for research, he said, “While monitoring the trend, even if there is a slight error in specificity, it will be uniform across the sample size and therefore it will not impact our observation of the overall trend,” he said. So far, over 2,90,401 samples have been tested and of these 30,043 on Wednesday itself. ICMR said at present there is a capacity to test 42,418 samples and if the labs start working in two shifts they can test around 78,000 every day. Dr Gangakhedkar also said there are adequate stocks of testing kits for eight weeks.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/5-lakh-kits-land-to-be-used-for-surveillance-not-diagnosis/articleshow/75190606.cms||Sushmi Dey
April 17, 2020||Business||Can’t sack staff: Companies get lawyers’ notice||NEW DELHI: In an innovation during the unprecedented lockdown, two lawyers replicated the Supreme Court's three-decade-old PIL concept to suo motu issue legal notice to three software companies warning them of consequences for serving termination notices on many employees and announcing salary cuts for others. Citing the prime minister's appeal to employers not to lay off any employee during the lockdown period, advocate Rajesh Inamdar and T C Shaikh sent legal notices to two Pune-based firms and a Gurgaon-based company for issuing termination letters to nearly 100 employees and also announcing salary cuts for others. Normally, an advocate issues legal notice on behalf of his client. But in this case, the two advocates decided to act suo motu after being informed about a large number of employees losing jobs at a time when they are forced to stay home because of the lockdown. They reminded the company owners about their possible prosecution under the National Disaster Management Act for sacking employees during a pandemic. "When things stood thus, it has come to light that you have illegally placed over 100 employees working for your company under notice period without any cogent and valid reasons. Further, you have also denied salary to several other employees and sent them on forced leave. What is appalling is several employees are also put on notice since mid-March with no indication about their future prospects with the company," the lawyers said in their notice. More on Covid-19Coronavirus pandemic: Complete Coverage21-day lockdown: What will stay open and what won'tHow to quarantine yourself at homeTrust the newspaper for your daily verified newsThey said the employers’ decision was not only in breach of the government’s directions but was also inhuman and punitive. "Needless to say, you are liable for prosecution under Sections 51 and 55 of the National Disaster Management Act, 2005, punishment for which is prescribed thereunder. Further, you are also liable to be prosecuted under other employment laws and liable to pay damages and compensation to all such employees who have been placed under notice and salaries of whom are deducted or not paid without any cogent reasons, taking advantage of the Covid-19 pandemic situation the country is confronted with," they said. Asking the employers to immediately revoke the termination notices, Inamdar and Shaikh said, "We call upon and urge you and all other establishments across the country to cooperate and stand with the nation to fight this pandemic and not ruin the employees financially and mentally." They also requested the legal fraternity to pro bono help similarly placed employees.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/cant-sack-staff-companies-get-lawyers-notice/articleshow/75190628.cms||Dhananjay Mahapatra
April 17, 2020||India||Coronavirus: Govt lab claims to have identified ‘novel mutations’||AHMEDABAD: Claiming a breakthrough in studying the mysterious ways in which Covid-19 works, scientists at the government-run Gujarat Biotechnology Research Centre have identified three "novel mutations" in the virus that they say could become building blocks in the quest for a universal cure. Dr CG Joshi, director of the Gandhinagar-based institute, said on Thursday that genome sequencing of a Covid-19 sample taken from a patient in Gujarat revealed nine mutations, of which six had been reported in various countries hit by the pandemic. "But three mutations are unique to our sequencing. This indicates that the virus is mutating fast. Mutation depends on multiple factors and further studies are underway." The institute plans to collect about 100 more samples from across the state to arrive at a comprehensive set of findings. "The primary benefit is that we can apply multiple permutations and combinations in computer simulation to ascertain which drugs or treatment could be most effective against the virus," Joshi said. Hareet Shukla, secretary of science and technology, said the results of genome sequencing would be crucial to deciding a "drug strategy" for the viral infection as well as developing a vaccine for it. More on Covid-19Coronavirus pandemic: Complete Coverage21-day lockdown: What will stay open and what won'tHow to quarantine yourself at homeTrust the newspaper for your daily verified newsThe chief minister’s office had first announced the "breakthrough" on social media late on Wednesday. The National Institute of Virology (NIV) in Pune is the only other laboratory in the country to complete genome sequencing of Covid-19 samples, officials said. Results of the study in Gujarat will be shared with the scientific community for further research.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/coronavirus-govt-lab-claims-to-have-identified-novel-mutations/articleshow/75190715.cms||---
April 17, 2020||India||Amid corona fears, govt eyes record grain output||NEW DELHI: Backed by the forecast of a normal monsoon this year, the Centre on Thursday set India’s foodgrain production target at record 298 million tonnes in 2020-21 which is nearly 2% higher than the estimated output in 2019-20. The agriculture ministry placed this target before the states during kharif national conference, assuring the stakeholders and farmers that the Centre has been taking all necessary measures to ensure smooth sowing operations during pre-monsoon and monsoon (June-September) period by overcoming the roadblocks created by the spread of Covid-19. Though many states have already started their sowing operation, the kharif crops (paddy, coarse cereals and pulses) are sown mainly during the monsoon season. Targets for production of two major crops - paddy (rice) and wheat - in 2020-21 crop year (July-June cycle) are almost at the level of their estimated output in 2019-20. But higher targets for pulses and coarse cereals may see new record of overall output of foodgrain in 2020-21. Besides setting target for production of the foodgrain basket (paddy, wheat, coarse cereals and pulses), the ministry has also set a higher target for oilseeds at nearly 37 million tonnes (MT) in 2020-21 which is 3 MT higher than the estimated output in 2019-20. Addressing the national meet through video conference, Union agriculture minister, Narendra Singh Tomar, assured that the Centre would “remove any obstacles that the states are facing” during the current difficult situation, signalling that the farmers will be granted all earmarked exemptions for carrying out their sowing and harvest operations during the lockdown period. The government has advised all fertiliser companies to ensure smooth movement of their products from plants and ports and to provide the details of fertiliser rakes which were held up due to lockdown. They have also been told to explore the possibility of additional storage of the vital soil sutrient in nearby plants. As far as ongoing harvest of wheat (the major rabi crop) is concerned, over 60% of the sown areas has already been harvested as on Thursday. Farmers in Madhya Pradesh and Rajasthan have, in fact, harvested over 80% of their sown area. The progress is, however, still slow in Punjab and Haryana, while Uttar Pradesh has speeded up harvest activities in the past three-four days. On procurement, Tomar said it has been decided that all states will ensure procurement at village/block levels as farmers are not allowed to move out of their block due to the lockdown. In addition, all states are taking steps for direct marketing/ purchasing of farm produce, he added. The main aim of the conference was to discuss various issues and list out steps in consultation with the states about preparedness for kharif cultivation in view of the lockdown.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/amid-corona-fears-govt-eyes-record-grain-output/articleshow/75190752.cms||Vishwa Mohan
April 17, 2020||India||Ensure migrants, poor don’t go hungry, Centre tells states, UTs||NEW DELHI: The Centre has written to chief secretaries and NGOs to ensure that elderly widows, divyangs, senior citizens and the poor do not go hungry or shelterless in any district of the country. Chief secretaries have been told that the Food Corporation of India (FCI) is providing foodgrains to all charitable, non-government organisations engaged in relief operations at Rs 21 per kg for wheat and Rs 22 for rice. “I have written to chief secretaries and district collectors of all states and Union Territories to partner and associate with NGOs of their states and districts to ensure that all people, specially migrants, poor farmers, building and construction workers, aged widows, divyangs and senior citizens and others do not suffer from want of food or shelter and no one in the country remains hungry,” Niti Aayog CEO Amitabh Kant said. Kant cited the letter of the consumer affairs ministry to FCI which instructed FCI to ensure that foodgrains are supplied to charitable entities, NGOs and others running relief camps for migrant labourers and other vulnerable groups at the uniform rate of Rs 21 per kg of wheat and Rs 22 per kg of rice. The ministry has also told FCI that there would be no upper limit for allocation of foodgrains to such organisations from any FCI depot. “Accordingly, you are requested to immediately contact your district collector/FCI depot manager for obtaining foodgrains at the above mentioned rates so as to ensure that no one in the country remains hungry,” Kant, who is heading one of the empowered groups set up by the government to deal with the impact of Covid-19 outbreak, said in his letter to NGOs and civil society organisations. More on Covid-19Coronavirus pandemic: Complete Coverage21-day lockdown: What will stay open and what won'tHow to quarantine yourself at homeTrust the newspaper for your daily verified newsThe Niti Aayog CEO urged chief secretaries to instruct district magistrates to ensure that no poor person remains hungry or shelterless. Earlier this month, Kant had written to 92,000 NGOs registered on the Niti Aayog Darpan portal to partner with district authorities across the country to help in mitigating the problem of food and shelter and other support for migrant labourers and vulnerable groups who have borne the brunt of the devastating impact of the coronavirus outbreak.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/ensure-migrants-poor-dont-go-hungry-centre-tells-states-uts/articleshow/75190770.cms||Surojit Gupta
April 17, 2020||Mysuru||Abhiram G Sankar: A sincere bureaucrat and a dutiful father||Mysuru: If he is not in his office monitoring the spread or curb of the Covid-19 infection across Mysuru district, which has the highest number of active cases – 49 – in Karnataka at the moment, deputy commissioner Abhiram G Sankar is on the ground directing and supervising officials and other personnel in this battle. There are no prescribed working hours for the district’s top bureaucrat, and he remains on call round-the-clock. Returning home exhausted and wearied, Sankar still does not fail to wash his hands thoroughly before taking into his arms his seven-month-old daughter. Mysuru, with the dubious distinction of being among the 170 Covid-19 hotspots in India, is struggling to contain the spread of the novel coronavirus. With the number of cases being reported in Mysuru showing occasional spurts, Sankar is well aware of the fact that the district needs to remain vigilant throughout. Sankar kicks off his official duties by diligently perusing the test results of the medical tests of those residents suspected of the infection, working in tandem with the State Surveillance Unit to ensure that those who test positive are isolated without any delay. The other onerous responsibilities he shoulders include monitoring the movement of those residents quarantined at home, in addition to ensuring that the over 30 lakh population is not denied essential commodities. His days are mostly an endless procession of meetings, with police officials, civic and revenue departments, wherein he is kept abreast of the latest developments across the district. The pharmaceutical firm in Nanjangud, the hub of the ‘Cluster Case’ in Mysuru district that sparked off a widespread infection, is one of the places he has been visiting frequently. In addition to accompanying both V Somanna and ST Somashekar – the former and incumbent Mysuru district in-charge ministers – Sankar has visited the epicentre of the cluster case multiple times to gather data, besides coordinating with embassies of various countries to trace the source of the case. The DC is also responsible for keeping the people of Mysuru informed about the status of the infection in the district, and has been doing this job either by appearing on electronic media outlets or on the Facebook page of Mysuru Varthabhavan. Sankar, a native of Kerala, pointed to the difficulties of maintaining a safe distance from members of one’s family at home. “I take a hot water bath immediately after going home, and I try to maintain social distancing at home, but as a father, I have to shoulder that responsibility too, which I have been doing by taking utmost precautions. It is just the three of us at home now – my wife, my daughter and myself – and I have to assist my wife. When you have a baby, it is not easy to maintain social distance,” Sankar told TOI.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mysuru/abhiram-g-sankar-a-sincere-bureaucrat-and-a-dutiful-father/articleshow/75187016.cms||Lawrence Milton
April 17, 2020||Surat||Bereaved, Valsad collector resumes duty in 24 hours to fight pandemic||Surat: Valsad district collector C R Kharsan set an example of how frontline warriors are putting aside personal tragedy in the face of India’s fight against Covid. Kharsan’s 86-year-old mother, Revaben, passed away in Raiya village in Diyodar taluka of Banaskantha district late on April 14 night. Located around 500 km away from Valsad, Kharsan journeyes almost eight hours to reach his village, performed her last rites, and within a few hours was back in his seat.“I received a message about my mother’s passing away early on April 15 morning. I immediately left for my native and together with all family members performed her final rites on that day. My driver needed some rest as it was a long distance. So, we left for Valsad early on Thursday morning and resumed my work as we are passing through a very critical time. Valsad district borders Maharashtra as well as union territory where Covid-19 positive cases are on rise. So, I resumed my duty to ensure that we can stall the spread of Covid-19,” said Kharsan, while talking to TOI.The 2006 Batch IAS officer, said that his mother stayed with him, but had gone to her native to attend a family marriage function a week before the lockdown was imposed. “Though the marriage was cancelled due to the lockdown, my mother stayed back and told me that she would come to Valsad once the situation normalizes. But God had other plans. However, she had no age-related complications,'' said a son, bound by love for his mother and duty to his motherland. "We told our friends and family members to offer their condolences over phone,” he added. It is important to note that though Valsad district shares borders with Maharashtra and the Union territory of Silvassa, not a single Covid-19 positive case has been reported from the district so far. To his credit as a district collector, Kharsan had ranked first for 165 days, the highest number of days, in the newly launched CM Dashboard programme for speedy implementation of various developmental works in the district.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/bereaved-valsad-collector-resumes-duty-in-24-hours-to-fight-pandemic/articleshow/75189189.cms||Vijaysinh Parmar
April 17, 2020||Madurai||Corpn chief inspects new containment zones in city||Madurai: Madurai corporation commissioner inspected new containment zones in Madurai Corporation, including Madhichayam, Narimedu and Kuppupillai Thoppu near the Crime Branch office in South Veli Street on Thursday. Barricades have been erected to ensure that the people did not move in and out of the containment zones where a few people have tested positive for Covid-19. Other containment zones near the new zones are Mehaboobpalayam, SVP Nagar in Annaiyur. The one-kilometer radius from the residence of the infected people have been cordoned off and barricaded. Movement of people in and out of this containment zone is strictly restricted. Essential commodities including vegetables and groceries are distributed at the residents’ doorsteps. Disinfection procedures are also carried out regularly in these areas. Drones are used to spray disinfectant in many places. The contact numbers of local traders have been circulated among the residents so that they can contact them for goods. People were asked to be at their homes in the containment areas. As of now there are seven containment zones in Madurai city. Corporation authorities are inspecting them on a daily basis.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/corpn-chief-inspects-new-containment-zones-in-city/articleshow/75189243.cms||---
April 17, 2020||Madurai||Some tiffin centres, parotta stalls open||Madurai: All eateries were closed after the announcement of lockdown to contain the spread of Covid-19, but a few have started operating again at select spots to provide food parcels. Most of them are tiffin centres and parotta stalls and are restricting their operations to mornings. G Selvam, a parotta shop owner from Palanganatham, said he opened his shop on Thursday as he is desperate for money to run his family. He had spent his modest savings in the last few weeks and there is no way forward without earning something, he said Owners of a few eateries said that confusion prevails about opening their shops. They said that while state government has given permission to open eateries during specified timings to sell food parcels, city police are not allowing them to operate. Police officers act based on their own whims as they allow some eateries to function and instruct others to close. “A few days ago, cases were registered against a few eatery owners including me in Anna Nagar station. However, a few were spared for reasons unknown. I personally visited Madurai district collector’s office to raise the issue. Officials said that police will be informed not to disturb eateries that provide only parcels,” the owner of an eatery from Yagappa Nagar said. A police officer from Anna Nagar range said that action is being taken against eatery owners for allowing large number of people to gather at their shops without following social distancing norms. There is no objection to selling parcels if social distancing is followed, the official said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/some-tiffin-centres-parotta-stalls-open/articleshow/75189248.cms||---
April 17, 2020||Surat||Pregnant guard of hospital, three others test +ve for coronavirus in Bharuch||Surat: A 24-year-old pregnant security guard of New Civil Hospital (NCH) in Bharuch and three others tested positive for COVID-19, taking total number of positive cases in the district to 17 on Thursday.Health officials stated that the woman, a resident of Limdi Chowk, who is six month pregnant, is believed to have contracted the infection from the two nurses who tested positive for the virus on Wednesday.Sources said Sujal Chauhan, 16, a resident of Maktampura, who is close contact of one of the nurses of civil hospital, tested positive for the virus. The other two who tested positive were Bhavin Patel, 29, a resident of Ahmedabad, who recently joined a pharma company in Bharuch, and Diwan Afzal Abbas, 23, a resident of Razi street.Meanwhile, Bharuch district administration has declared half of Bharuch town as ‘core area’ thereby restricting movement of people for three hours in a day. Kasak, Maktampura, Tulsidham, Jadeshwar, Juna Tavra, Nandelva, Chavaj, Bholav and Sherpura are among the areas declared as core area.A health officer of Bharuch said, “All the four new positive patients have been shifted to the isolation ward of Jayaben Modi Hospital in Ankleshwar. A total of 17 positive cases, including that of two nurses of the civil hospital, have been reported from the district in the last few days.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/pregnant-guard-of-hospital-three-others-test-ve-for-coronavirus-in-bharuch/articleshow/75189074.cms||---
April 17, 2020||Pune||Manohar Kulkarni dies at 92||Pune: Veteran theatre personality Manohar Kulkarni, who headed the Pune branch of the Akhil Bharatiya Marathi Natya Parishad, passed away in the early hours of Thursday. He was 92. According to a statement issued by his family, Kulkarni was suffering from age-related illnesses. Kulkarni had been in the field of theatre and arts for over five decades. He had also headed the Manoranjan Pune group, which is now headed by his son, Mohan. Besides Mohan, he is survived by his other son, Madan, daughter Meena and his grandchildren. The state government gave Kulkarni a cultural award in 2000 in recogntion of his contribution to theatre. The Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) also honoured him with the Balgandharva Puraskar in 2017. The organisation he founded works primarlily in the field of theatre and other stage productions, liaising with authorities and coordinating bookings for artists.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/manohar-kulkarni-dies-at-92/articleshow/75190028.cms||---
April 17, 2020||Business||Condoms, contraceptives & pregnancy test kits top buying list during lockdown||Chennai: The average Chennai guy forgot his hand wash while the one in Mumbai forgot to carry a pack of condoms. Women in Hyderabad were cautious and asked for the i-pill (contraceptive) and those in Bengaluru and Pune wanted their pregnancy test kits door delivered or Dunzoed. These were the key findings for March by delivery firm Dunzo based on its customer usage patterns. Thermometer and sanitary napkins were among the top orders placed and delivered from pharmacies in Delhi NCR. Clearly life under lockdown also requires an eye on the thermometer. “Though we do not offer home delivery service, we do not discourage customers who place orders and get it delivered through online delivery partners,” said a store manager of Apollo Pharmacy. Hyderabadis showed their love for their Biryani as much as Chennai citizens rooted for their beloved Idlis. “Despite a drop in overall demand for home delivery orders, orders for Idlis is going up every day. Mostly elderly people directly call us and place their orders, which is mostly ‘Mini meals’ for lunch,” said a Chennai-based restaurant chain. Street food snacks like the Missal Pav was the top order in Pune, while the Dosa reigned in Mumbai and Bengaluru. Interestingly, despite being a Chaat hot spot, it was the Pizza that topped the list of food orders in Jaipur. At a time when online grocers failed to take or deliver orders even after receiving government approval, Kirana stores were the sole saviors as they allowed online delivery platforms to pick-up and drop-off of items or parcels for their customers. Under the grocery category for home delivery, tomatoes were the most sought after vegetable in Bengaluru, Jaipur and Pune, while onions were the most in demand in Chennai, Delhi NCR, Mumbai and Hyderabad. As 33-year-old Hari Ganesh said, “Our street has been locked down by the Corporation officials for the last two weeks. So, I purchase groceries and vegetables without the need to step out of my house and get them delivered. We prefer to purchase from small Kirana stores, in this case there is no waiting period unlike the online retailers, who may even cancel our order later.” Hungry children and dirty dishes ensured that Maggi and Scotch Brite ruled in the fast moving consumer goods category alongside dishwashers. All three topped the list of products ordered to be home delivered in all the major metro cities.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/condoms-contraceptives-pregnancy-test-kits-top-buying-list-during-lockdown/articleshow/75189312.cms||Mamtha Asokan
April 17, 2020||Kolkata||Bread supply thins, but some cos up production||Kolkata: The supply of bread is gradually drying up with smaller- and medium-sized bakeries in the city staying shut since Good Friday. Since workers decided to go home when the second phase of lockdown, till April 30, was announced and there being a short supply of raw materials, the bigger brands have also halved production. Some well-known brands, like Metro Gold, Orient, Laurel and Anchor, have either stopped production or are making very little bread. Their representatives said the initial supply crunch has eased, but when the lockdown was extended, the workers did not want to stay back. However, some brands, like Moreish, Flury’s and Lords, have stepped up production and are catering to 75,000-80,000 households. Confectioners that had opened for Easter and chipped in with bread have, however, reduced production — while Cookie Jar has shut, Saldanha has halved production. “We have labour issues. Also, the price of flour has gone up, but bread price has not increased,” a Saldanha spokesperson said. Modern Breads used to produce 1.5 lakh pounds daily, which has come down to 50,000 pounds. However, it is supplying bread to several localities on alternate days. Britannia is bringing down its supply in a phased manner due to lack of raw materials and packaging materials that come from Delhi and Mumbai. “There is stock for eight days, after which production will dry up,” said Varun Binjrajka, who is responsible for production in Kolkata. “The 15 kinds of raw materials we use aren’t all listed as essential items and hence are not coming through easily from other states,” he said. Then there are those that have actually increased supply. Moreish Foods based in Howrah claims it hasn’t shut production for a single day. “Despite challenges and high overheads, Moriesh stretched its facility and extended distribution across Kolkata without increasing any additional cost to consumer, even servicing dtouble its normal demand,” said Moreish Foods vice-president (sales & marketing) Pradeep Kumar Choudhury. Flury’s has quadrupled production since the lockdown and is looking at ways to further enhance it. “We have gone up from 650 loaves to 2,500 loaves. Our vehicles travel to all major complexes in the city and nearly 80% of the bread is sold in apartments. We have also opened six stores from where app-based delivery aggregators supply to houses,” said executive chef Vikas Singh. The Joint Action Committee of West Bengal Bakers’ Association met mayor Firhad Hakim and apprised him of the situation on Wednesday. “Kolkata needs 12 lakh pounds of bread daily, which has come down to 5 lakh pounds at present,” said secretary Idris Ali.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/bread-supply-thins-but-some-cos-up-production/articleshow/75189529.cms||Jhimli Mukherjee Pandey
April 17, 2020||Rajkot||Man killed in dinner party, three booked||Rajkot: A man was stabbed to death in Rana Kandola village of Ranavav taluka in Porbandar district on Wednesday night. Police found the body of Ramesh Kadegia (27) in a farm in Rana Kandola village on Thursday morning. “As there were empty dishes of food lying by the side of Kadegia, we assumed there was a dinner party going on at the time of the crime,” said B S Zala, sub-inspector with Ranavav police station. Police identified the accused as Vijay Bhutia and his two unidentified aides on the complaint of Kadegia’s brother Vijay Kadegia. “Vijay alleged that Bhutia along with his two unidentified aides passed by his house in Devda village adjoining Rana Kandola village, brandishing a sword, saying that he would kill his brother,” said Zala.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/man-killed-in-dinner-party-three-booked/articleshow/75189533.cms||---
April 17, 2020||Patna||Expedite screening at hotspots: Bihar CM Nitish Kumar||PATNA: CM Nitish Kumar on Thursday reviewed the status of the launch of door-to-door survey to combat the coronavirus spread on the pattern of polio eradication programme, and also directed the officials concerned to undertake “screening” of people in all the households in the four hotspot districts. The CM made three-pronged review exercise which also included the status of the wheat procurement drive by Primary Agricultural Credit Societies in the state and the steps taken for the creation of work opportunities amid lockdown due to the coronavirus outbreak. Chief secretary Deepak Kumar and principal secretaries of the departments concerned participated. Earlier, the CM had ordered the launch of the door-to-door campaign against coronavirus outbreak from Thursday. The four districts are Nalanda, Nawada, Begusarai and Siwan. Besides, villages in the 3km radius of the locality that had suspected corona positive cases were to be screened. The CM said active screening of people in the areas that had thrown up corona positive cases should also be done. “People with whom the Covid-19 patients had come in contact should be traced, tested and tracked,” he said. Nitish appealed to people with travel history to go for screening and testing for the sake of their families and society. He urged the people of the state not to misbehave with doctors, health workers, police, administrative officials, sanitation workers and others involved in anti-coronavirus drive.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/expedite-screening-at-hotspots-nitish/articleshow/75187461.cms||---
April 17, 2020||Patna||Priest killed in Siwan district||PATNA: Unidentified criminals killed the priest of a temple in Saran district late on Wednesday night. Police said the incident took place when the priest, Garib Das (65), was alone in the temple located at Mehandar village under Chaipur police outpost in Siwan district. SP Abhinav Kumar said the incident came to light when some local residents visited the temple on Thursday morning. Though the main entrance of the temple was locked, blood stains were spotted on the floor, which led to the recovery of the priest’s body. The deceased, stated to be a native of Masarakh in neighbouring Saran district, was serving at the temple for the last three decades. “Prima facie it appeared that the criminals attacked the priest with an intention to loot cash and valuables,” an official said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/priest-killed-in-siwan/articleshow/75187148.cms||---
April 17, 2020||Delhi||Delhi: Spitting in public to soon cost you Rs 2,000||NEW DELHI: The red paan-stained pillars in Connaught Place, staircase corners in public offices and almost all road dividers are testimonies to the spitting menace in Delhi. Civic agencies have had a tough time in stopping people chewing gutkha, khaini and paan from spitting due to their indifferent attitude. However, things are all set to change now as the municipal corporations are going to introduce stiff penalties on violators with the help of checking squads. The ministry of home affairs has made spitting a punishable offence under Disaster Management Act in the revised guidelines for the lockdown issued on Wednesday to contain Covid-19. Bhupendra Gupta, standing committee chairperson of South Delhi Municipal Corporation, said a 10-fold increase in penalty is being recommended to the executive wing. “We will soon form dedicated teams on the lines of pollution control teams, which will be empowered to carry out raids in markets and open areas once the lockdown is lifted,” he added. SDMC may outsource the process of inspection to private bodies on a no-cost basis. “In this manner, the civic body won’t need to use its manpower and a portion of the fines will come to it. The corporation spends a huge amount in cleaning the stains and restoration of the premises,” Gupta said. Last year, New Delhi Municipal Council had deployed 100 civic wardens in Connaught Place to bring spitters into line, but Delhiites refused to change their behaviour. Senior corporation officials said the current Rs 200 fine has failed to act as a deterrent. “Apart from the steep increase in fines, police complaints can also be filed in severe cases. The measures are likely to remain in place even after the lockdown is lifted,” said a senior public health official. Arun Kumar, the spokesperson of East Delhi Municipal Corporation, said that currently all staff members are involved in disinfection measures. “Once novel coronavirus is brought under control, dedicated teams will be formed to control the spitting menace. If we can make this behavioural change permanent, it will be beneficial to the entire city in the long run,” he added. Read this story in Bengali||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/spitting-in-public-to-soon-cost-you-rs-2k/articleshow/75190055.cms||Paras Singh
April 17, 2020||Surat||26 test positive in Surat, 22 during community sampling||Surat: The number of Covid-19 positive cases in the city hit another high on Thursday with 26 more testing positive, 22 of them screened in the ongoing community sampling drive of the Surat Municipal Corporation (SMC). Four other patients, who were admitted in the Seventh Day Adventist Mission Hospital and New Civil Hospital (NCH) respectively, also tested positive. Sources said that out of the total 26 patients, 18 people from Limbayat zone, a majority of them from the Maan Darwaja tenement, and five from the central zone. Till now, Limbayat zone has the highest 30 positive cases, followed by 27 in central zone, 14 in Rander, five each from Udhna and Varachha and four from Athwa zone. SMC has decided to further tighten its enforcement in areas where curfew has been clamped from Thursday midnight. "The state government has decided to enforce lockdown effectively to contain Covid-19 in the city and therefore curfew is being imposed in Covid-19 hotspots,'' Banchhanidhi Pani, municipal commissioner, said. SMC has made it mandatory for zone-level office to maintain a register of all people who are going out and entering the slum areas. It also asked medical stores, grocers, supermarkets and other shop owners to maintain a register of customers with their mobile numbers and addresses. "We are increasing the daily testing capacity and within the next two days, we will be able conduct around 1,500 tests daily,” Pani added. "On Thursday, we collected around 500 samples from hotspots and 291 teams are actively engaged in contact tracing of Covid-19 positive cases,'' he said. On Thursday, SMC penalized 106 persons for not maintaining social distancing and 87 for not wearing masks in public places. In all, 1,327 people have been penalized for not wearing masks in the city till date. SMC has declared Anjana, Umarvada and Dhumbhal areas in Limbayat zone as a cluster and put 32,130 houses and its 1.44 lakh residents under home quarantine.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/26-test-positive-in-surat-22-during-community-sampling/articleshow/75189046.cms||---
April 17, 2020||Patna||Vaishali village sealed after man tests positive for Covid-19||PATNA: The Vaishali district administration on Thursday sealed Raghopur Purbi village, around 30km southeast of Hajipur, a day after a 35-year-old man from the village tested positive for Covid-19. Movement of people was also restricted at the village. Though the infected man is undergoing treatment in Patna, his 62 close relatives and neighbours were quarantined at Hajipur, district magistrate Udita Singh said. The village falls under the assembly constituency of leader of opposition in state assembly Tejashwi Prasad Yadav. “The village has been sealed and police personnel with magistrates deployed. People have been asked to remain indoors and follow the lockdown norms,” Hajipur SDO Sandip Shekhar Priyadarshi said. A joint team of officials led SDO Priyadarshi and SDPO Raghav Dayal visited the village on Thursday and took stock of the situation. “Altogether 59 people have been sent to the Sadar hospital at Hajipur and subsequently quarantined for 14 days. Their samples have been collected and sent to Patna for test. Efforts are on to locate others who had come in contact with the patient,” SDPO Dayal said. The local mukhiyas and other people’s representatives have also been asked to provide help to inhabitants of the village. “Essential commodities will be provided to the villagers by the government agency. Entry of the outsiders has been completely been banned. Those trying to defy lockdown will face action,” the SDPO said. Vaishali district RJD president Baidyanath Chandravanshi, however, exuded confidence that the joint efforts of the district administration and the locals will help contain the virus. “We are in touch with our workers in the village,” he added. A senior district official said the village would be sanitised in a day or two.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/vaishali-village-sealed-after-man-tests-ve-for-covid-19/articleshow/75187379.cms||Ramashankar
April 17, 2020||Patna||Patnaites rue shortage of technical service providers||PATNA: Residents are having a tough time finding services provided by self-employed electricians, IT repairs, plumbers, motor mechanics, carpenters amid the ongoing lockdown. With the day temperature touching nearly 40 degrees Celsius, people are worried about the maintenance and servicing of air conditioners (ACs) and dessert coolers among other electronic gadgets. Shubodeep, a chef and a resident of Kadamkuan said, “The stabiliser connected to the AC in my room is not working since April 5. I called up a few electricians but they are not ready to come. I do not know how I will manage without an air-conditioner in this intense summer,” he said. Many residents are also facing problems as their inverters and refrigerators are out of order. Rajendra Nagar resident Kunal Mehta said, “We often face power cut problems in the locality. I urgently need to replace the battery of my inverter as it has completely dried out. Unfortunately, I there is no electrician available to repair the old one and now I need to wait till the lockdown is lifted.” Arshad Hussain, a government schoolteacher and a resident of Gardanibagh is trying to find an electrician for getting his refrigerator repaired. “My refrigerator is not cooling and it seems the condenser fan motor is not working. Hence it is not possible to store vegetables and fruits. Service centres are closed and we are struggling to find any electrician,” he said. Several others are struggling with poor internet connectivity while working from home. “Due to some technical snag, my internet router is not functioning properly. Now, it is difficult to find any technician. I am using my cell phone hotspot,” said Pulkit Swaroop, an IT engineer and a resident of Bhattacharya road. Ananya Gupta, who works with an NGO said, “My laptop is not working. I called the service centre, however, nobody picked up the phone. Now, I am forced to do work on cell phone, which is very tiresome and time-taking,” she said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/patnaites-rue-shortage-of-technical-service-providers/articleshow/75187490.cms||Faryal Rumi
April 17, 2020||Patna||Screening must for new jail inmates in Patna||PATNA: Police are taking extra precautions while producing criminals and other arrested people in courts and forwarding them to jails in view of coronavirus outbreak. In addition, the prisons administration is also screening the new prisoners separately. In fact, judges are also emphasising on screening of arrested people before bringing them to courts. However, criminals are also taking advantage of the situation as two of three thieves, who were arrested from Buddha Colony police station area, fled from cottage ward of Patna Medical College and Hospital where they were kept for Covid-19 testing on Wednesday night. SHO of Buddha Colony police station Ravishankar Kumar said the three were arrested from Dujra locality with stolen items. “Their reports were expected to arrive by Thursday night,” he said. ADG (headquarters) Jitendra Kumar said police officers have been asked to remain alert and take all necessary precautions while sending arrested people to jails. “They have been asked to strictly follow the guidelines of Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR),” he added. A prisons department official said all new inmates are screened by jail doctors. “After the screening, these inmates are kept in specially earmarked quarantine ward for 14 days,” the officer added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/screening-must-for-new-jail-inmates/articleshow/75186987.cms||Debashish Karmakar
April 17, 2020||Patna||Patna University online admission to start from April 20||PATNA: Patna University (PU) is likely to start the process of admission of students to all its undergraduate (UG) and postgraduate (PG) courses from Monday. Details of the admission schedule will be uploaded to the university’s website soon. PU vice-chancellor (VC) Rash Bihari Prasad Singh told this newspaper on Thursday, “In order to avoid delay in commencement of the 2020-2021 academic session, the university has decided to start the process of online admission to both UG and PG courses running under the conventional as well as self-financing modes at the earliest.” Earlier, PU had notified that the online submission of application forms would commence on April 3, which was postponed due to the nationwide lockdown. “Now, online submission of forms will begin on April 20 and continue till May 25. The last date for submission of forms may be extended if the situation demands so,” the VC said, adding, “The dates of entrance tests for admission to BA, BSc and BCom courses will be announced later. Students residing in rural areas will get some time for submitting their applications even after the lockdown ends.” Patna Women’s College (PWC), an autonomous institution under PU, has already announced the details of its admission schedule. Online form submission began on Wednesday and will continue till June (UG courses: May 25 and PG courses: June 15). PWC principal Sister M Rashmi said, “Entrance tests will be conducted for admission to all UG courses while PG students will be admitted directly on the basis of the marks obtained in the last qualifying examination.” She added, “The entrance test for admission to BA, BCom and BSc courses will be held on June 3, 5 and 6, respectively. The tests for all other self-financing courses will also be held in June. Classes of all the newly admitted students will start on July 1.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/pu-online-admission-to-start-from-apr-20/articleshow/75187116.cms||B K Mishra
April 17, 2020||Patna||Magadh University struggles to implement e-learning programme||GAYA: Magadh University (MU) seems to be struggling in implementing the e-learning programme launched amid the nationwide lockdown. University sources said that a large number of students from rural areas do not have smart phones to use the online video conferencing app. Apart from this, poor internet connectivity and unfamiliarity of few teachers with modern electronic gadgets are also hampering the execution of e-learning exercise. Earlier on April 14, MU registrar Prof Radhekant Prasad issued an office order addressed to all postgraduate heads and college principals, asking then to arrange for online classes. Conceding that many students do not have access to smart phones and internet connectivity or poor speed issues, MU vice-chancellor Prof Rajendra Prasad said a multi-pronged strategy was being formulated to resolve the issue. “A special cell has been created in the university to destress and counsel students to combat the lockdown monotony and its psychological fallout. All possible methods to provide learning material to the students are being considered,” the VC said. The VC said students who do not have smart phones may be provided study material through other sources, without violating the lockdown and physical distancing norms. “At the time of admission, students have provided their cell phone numbers and e-mail addresses and they will be contacted by subject teachers, who will be available to address their academic problems. In some PG departments, e-learning has already started,” he said. The VC added that all 51 foreign students enrolled in different PG programmes of the university have been quarantined in their hostels and their food and health requirements were being properly looked after. “The residential areas of the university campus are also being effectively disinfected,” Prof Prasad said. MU public relation officer Prof Sidnath Prasad Deen said, “To ensure early publication of results, the university is considering introduction of OMR-based multiple choice questions as computer readable OMRs can be quickly evaluated.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/mu-struggles-to-implement-e-learning-programme/articleshow/75187129.cms||---
April 17, 2020||Kolkata||West Bengal: No new show, viewers want cable rate cut||KOLKATA: The absence of new content on general entertainment and sports channels following the cancellation of all shooting schedules and sports events worldwide has given rise to a demand for reducing the price of the channels that are among the costliest pay channels. “Neither is there any new episode of serials nor any live sporting event. Yet, the channels continue to charge premium rates. Why shouldn’t the price be reduced now?” said Salt Lake Karunamoyee resident Surendra Nath Mazumdar. Several other cable TV viewers have raised the issue, pointing out that broadcasters cite huge expenditure in production costs for serials and purchasing rights to sporting events to fix a high premium on these channels. While general entertainment channels are now showing old serials, sports channels are also surviving on repeat shows of marquee events and achievements of sportspersons. Local cable operators said they had faced the question from multiple viewers while collecting the subscription for April and were at a loss to explain it. “Dearth of content has led to the withdrawal of a sports channel. But the other channels are continuing at old rates. They certainly need to be revised. Had the viewers opted for a la cart, these channels could have been discontinued for the duration of lockdown. That would have substantially reduced the subscription,” a cable operator said. Sources in the industry said regulatory watchdog TRAI had received representations on the issue and would talk to broadcasters. Sports and general entertainment channels comprise nearly 60% of the monthly subscription. The ministry of information and broadcasting (MIB) has directed broadcasters and distribution platform operators to ensure uninterrupted services to their respective subscribers. This effectively bars them from disconnecting services and puts to rest consumer anxiety over a blackout if they are unable to pay the cable TV subscription due to the lockdown. The ministry has also asked all states to ensure this so that there is a constant flow of essential and authentic information through various media, including print and electronic. “As you are aware, ministry of home affairs has allowed broadcast and cable services to be operational as essential services during the period of containment of Covid-19 epidemic in the country. Uninterrupted services are in the interest of viewers and larger public safety in these difficult times,” the MIB directive stated.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/no-new-show-viewers-want-cable-rate-cut/articleshow/75189564.cms||---
April 17, 2020||Pune||Only 15 students remain at FTII||PUNE: The Film and Television Institute of India (FTII) shut down a few days before the national lockdown and nearly emptied out its hostels, after all of its staff were sent home. However, 15 students still remain on campus, unable to travel to their hometowns at short notice, with no trains and airline ticket costs hitting the roof in mid-March. “Around four students from north-eastern states could not travel back in time. Similar is the case of some students whose hometowns are away from a large airport or railway station. Some of them also could not travel back due to the exorbitant cost of air tickets. Some parents also got in touch with the management, and said that it was better that their children not travel to their hometowns, including Delhi, due to the Covid-19 situation in those places,” said Bhupendra Kainthola, the FTII director. Kainthola added that around 350 students are accommodated on campus at any given time during normal operations. The students have no access to food from the institute’s mess as it has been shut down. As of now, they are making do with their own arrangements, including ordering meals from restaurant aggregators. “The students, who have remained on campus, are fine. They are making their own arrangements with regards to food and they are also cooking in their own rooms,” said a representative of the students.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/only-15-students-remain-at-ftii/articleshow/75190038.cms||Shiladitya Pandit
April 17, 2020||Patna||Muslims asked to offer special prayers at home on Ramzan||PATNA: With the extension of lockdown due to Covid-19 pandemic, the special prayer services, religious gatherings and activities would take a back seat during the Holy month of Ramzan, which is likely to commence from April 24 or April 25 subject to sighting of the crescent moon. According to Islam, Ramzan falls on the ninth month of the Islamic lunar calendar, which marks the commemoration of first revelation of the holy book Quran to Prophet Mohammed. Several Islamic bodies have appealed to the people to observe fast and offer prayer services, including ‘taraweeh’, from their homes. Maulana Shamimuddin Munami, head of Khanekah Munamiya, Mitan Ghat said fasting during the month of Ramzan and offering ‘salah’ (prayer) five times is a compulsory religious duty for Muslims while ‘taraweeh’ prayer is secondary. “Muslims can easily observe fast and perform ‘salah’ at home. If people want to perform ‘taraweeh’ prayer, they can do it at their homes. The ‘hafeez’ or ‘hafeeza’ (one who knows Quran by heart) in the family can lead the prayer while others can perform ‘surah’ taraweeh,” Maulana Shamimuddin said. He added, “For surah taraweeh, one can read verses from chapter Al-Fil (elephant) to chapter Al-Nas (mankind).” Mohd Irshad Ullah, chairman of Bihar State Sunni Wakf Board, said only the Imam (one who leads prayers), muezzin (who gives the call for prayers) and administrators of the mosque should offer prayers five times a day in mosques during Ramzan. Irshad said, “Instructions have been issued to all mosques to obey the lockdown implemented in the country. People can take help of technology to perform special prayer at their homes.” Imarat-e-Shariah, a Muslim religious body, which has its jurisdiction over Bihar, Jharkhand and Odisha, has also barred Muslims from holding congregational prayer services at mosques during Ramzan. Maulana Shibli Qasmi, general secretary of Imarat-e-Shariah, said Muslims should follow the social distancing norms while performing ‘taraweeh’ prayer at home. “They should not invite their neighbours or other relatives for special prayer,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/muslims-asked-to-offer-special-prayers-at-home-on-ramzan/articleshow/75187420.cms||Faryal Rumi
April 17, 2020||Patna||600 who attended congregation at a mosque in Bihar sharif being traced||PATNA: More than 600 people who reportedly attended a congregation at a mosque in Biharsharif on March 14 and 15 are being traced for Covid-19 test and quarantining. Sources said the tracing is being done as a precautionary measure as no foreign travel history or any other contact has been found in two covid positive cases in Nawada. “The meeting took place at a mosque at Biharsharif in Nalanda on March 14 and 15, after which everyone dispersed. However, the meeting attracted attention of the authorities after it surfaced during inquiry that two persons, who had been tested positive in Nawada, had also attended it,” a senior state government official told TOI preferring anonymity. He added: “There were more than 600 participants, but all from Bihar. Now they are being traced for being tested for Covid-19.” Meanwhile, test reports of 14 members of Tablighi Jamat from Biharsharif, who were isolated, have been found negative.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/600-who-attended-congregation-at-a-mosque-in-biharsharif-being-traced/articleshow/75186966.cms||---
April 17, 2020||Surat||Covid-19: Curfew in select areas of Surat||SURAT: Curfew was clamped in five police station areas and parts of Limbayat area of the city on Thursday following a steep rise in the number of Covid-19 positive cases since Wednesday. City police commissioner R B Brahmbhatt said the curfew will be imposed from midnight of April 16 to 6am on April 22 in police station limits of Athwalines, Lalgate, Mahidharpura and Salabatpura. Kamrunagar police chowky area of Limbayat police station will also be under curfew. However, there will be relaxation for women to buy milk and vegetables from 1pm to 4 pm. However, Brahmbhatt warned the residents of the areas under curfew that the relaxations will be withdrawn if social distancing is not maintained by women. "The decision to extend the curfew will be taken after assessing the situation in these areas. If women do not follow social distancing strictly in the areas, the permission to go out for buying milk and vegetables will also be withdrawn," said Brahmbhatt. In all, 38 positive cases were reported in city of which majority are from the areas where curfew was clamped. On Thursday, 14 cases were reported from Man Darwaja Tenement under the limits of Salabatpura police station. "If citizens in other parts do not follow the lockdown strictly, curfew will be imposed in those areas as well. Police will take strict action against those found violating the curfew and lockdown orders," said Brahmbhatt. Additional bandobast of CISF and CRPF have been deployed in the areas under curfew.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/curfew-imposed-in-old-city-areas-parts-of-limbayat/articleshow/75189029.cms||---
April 17, 2020||Patna||Supply chain troubles ease across Patna as shops restock essential items||PATNA: Bottlenecks in the supply of essential commodities seem to have eased amid the extended lockdown as food grains, vegetables and fruits have been restocked in many shops and supermarkets across the city. Shopkeepers and owners of supermarkets told this newspaper on Thursday that customers had stopped stocking up on essential items, thereby easing the bottlenecks in their supply. Vikas Kumar, the sales executive of a supermarket in Bandar Bagicha, said, “Since people’s buying pattern has changed, the supply of food items is back on track.” Shekhar, the owner of a supermarket in Ashiana Nagar, also claimed that people were not resorting to panic buying and essential items had been restocked. Even small shopkeepers ensured that the supply of essential items would not get affected during the lockdown. Kundan Kumar, who runs a grocery in Langar Toli, said, “My shop will remain open from 6am to 6pm and supply of all commodities continue uninterrupted.” Nala Road resident Pallavi Sinha expressed satisfaction over the present situation. The 33-year-old said, “I can finally heave a sigh of relief as shops have replenished depleted stocks and will remain open from 6am to 6pm.” Meanwhile, supermarkets and even small groceries have started home delivery of items with the replenishment of depleted stocks. Bakarganj resident Rashmi Tripathi had been trying to place an order for buying essentials on a mobile app for a long time, but succeeded only on Thursday. She said, “I immediately ordered everything online because going to a market is unsafe.” Raids on to prevent hoarding, says Patna DM: Patna district magistrate (DM) Kumar Ravi said on Thursday that the administration was conducting raids to prevent hoarding and black- marketing of food materials. “Altogether 128 public distribution shops, 42 groceries, eight gas agencies and 18 flour mills have been checked so far. It is also being ensured that the supply of dairy products, edible oil, sugar, salt, lentils, rice, potatoes, onions, green vegetables continues in an uninterrupted manner,” the DM said. He added, “We are also conducting raids to check the surge in prices of essential commodities.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/supply-chain-troubles-ease-as-shops-restock-essential-items/articleshow/75187099.cms||Faryal Rumi
April 17, 2020||Rajkot||Gujarat: Poems were his panacea to triumph over Covid-19||RAJKOT: ‘Khushi ke saath duniya me hazaaro gham bhi hote hai, Jahan shehnai bajti hai vahan matam bhi hote hai.” (Along with moments of joy, there are thousands of moments of grief.. , where blow the trumpets of celebration, so do the laments of mourning.) Ninety two-year-old Razaak Qadri couldn’t have summed up his experience of fighting Covid-19 in a better way than reciting lyrics of this immortal song by Shakeel Badayuni penned for Dilip Kumar’s 1950 starrer Babul. As Qadri walked out amid applause from Bhavnagar’s Sir T Hospital on Thursday, he expressed his triumph through a slew of shayaaris, which has been his passion. Qadri is the the oldest Covid-19 patient in Gujarat to have defeated the virus and reportedly the second oldest in India after Kerala’s 93-year-old man. On coming out of the hospital, his eyes dilated in discomfort on seeing sunlight after 20 long days. He was in the isolation ward since March 28 when he tested positive. Being a heart patient for several years, Qadri’s weapons to fight death staring at him were his mental strength and his love for poems. His stay in the isolation ward was actually a delight for other patients and hospital staff as Qadri enthralled them with Hindi and Urdu shayaaris. “I survived three heart attacks, the last one being in 2018. Three weeksss ago, I experienced symptoms similar to heart attack. I felt uneasy and started perspiring profusely,” he told TOI over phone from Bhavnagar. He was admitted in the emergency ward and tested for coronavirus too. “The only two words I could hear from doctors and nurses were negative and positive. After two days, I was told I had coronavirus and would be discharged if two more tests are negative,” he added. “But I was firm that I won’t lose courage. Doing namaz five times a day, reciting poems and doing yoga was my routine in the hospital,” he said. Hospital administrator Dr. Harshad Gathani said, “Razakbhai himself was mentally strong which helped us in his treatment. He was reciting shayaaris, so we deputed a dedicated person to listen to his poems and appreciate him. This gave him positive energy and speeded his recovery."  Two other patients, 50-year-old Farooq Telia and 38-year-old Asif Pathadiya were also discharged from Sir T Hospital on Thursday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/poems-were-his-panacea-to-triumph-over-covid/articleshow/75189479.cms||Nimesh Khakhariya
April 17, 2020||Kolkata||West Bengal: HAM operator drives 98km to deliver medicines to elderly||KOLKATA: On Wednesday, Souporno Sen received an SOS from Swapan Dutta, an elderly resident of Rahara, who was in need of some medicines that weren’t available locally. Sen, who isn’t a relative or an acquaintance of the elderly man, drove to Poddar Court in Kolkata and collected some of the medicines before driving to Uluberia to get the rest. Finally, after a drive of nearly 98km, Sen delivered the medicines to Dutta. Sen, whose favourite hobby is amateur radio, has emerged as a Covid warrior in these trying times. HAM operators from the state have provided yeoman services across the country during natural disasters such as cyclones, floods and earthquakes. Now, they are using their network to help people in need. “We have been providing assistance to people ever since the lockdown was announced. On April 9, we received information that an elderly person, Debasis Roy, from Belur Notun Bazaar, Howrah, has been advised hospitalization in Salt Lake. Sen immediately drove to Belur, picked up Roy and got him admitted to the hospital. On Tuesday, his condition improved and he tested negative to Covid-19. Sen again drove to the hospital, got him released and dropped him back home,” said Ambarish Nag Biswas, secretary, West Bengal Radio Club. On Tuesday, even as he was busy with Roy, Sen received a distress call from Vishal, a dog owner. Sen immediately got in touch with HAM operators Kaustav Roy and Shounak Basu, who drove the pet to a facility off E M Bypass. “On Thursday, a woman called us to say her mother, a resident of Hemanta Mukherjee Road, required some cardiac medicine. Kaustav, who had helped with the pet, searched for the medicine from Barrackpore to Baranagar and finally succeeded in delivering it to the elderly woman. Such people have upheld the tradition of amateur radio being a means to save lives,” Nag Biswas added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/ham-operator-drives-98km-to-deliver-medicines-to-elderly/articleshow/75189536.cms||Jayanta Gupta
April 17, 2020||Mysuru||Private nursing home in Mysuru sealed after patient tests +ve for SARI||Mysuru: A private nursing home in Siddartha Nagar in Mysuru was sealed on Thursday, a day after a patient who tested positive for Severe Acute Respiratory Illness (SARI) was reported to have been treated there. Patients, who visited the nursing home in the last few days, and their contacts are being traced, according to officials. The 72-years-old patient was tested positive for SARI on Wednesday and rushed to the designated Covid-19 hospital. According to the authorities, he is now responding to the treatment. This perhaps is the first time healthcare workers in the city have been sent to quarantine after coming in contact with a potential Covid-19 patient. Speaking to TOI, deputy commissioner Abhiram G Sankar said the staff had been using protective gear. “Still, as aprecautionary measure, the staff have been quarantined,” he added. According to sources in the Mysuru City Corporation (MCC), the officials are tracing the contacts of the patients who visited the hospital in the last one week. “The hospital is sealed. The number of people who may have come in contact with the patients is yet to be ascertained. We are collecting the data,” said MCC officials.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mysuru/private-nursing-home-in-mysuru-sealed-after-patient-tests-ve-for-sari/articleshow/75187408.cms||---
April 17, 2020||Mysuru||Trio of engineers who took to rose cultivation stare at massive loss||Mandya: Sauntering into the rural backwaters of Mandya, one is treated to the sight of a sprawling rose gardens, spread across a vast area in many villages across the district. However, what sets the rose gardens in Keelara and Basavanapura villages apart is that they are owned by three software engineers, who took to floral agriculture as an additional vocation. However, the trio is now staring at a loss of more than Rs 1.5 crore with the lockdown having stymied their prospects. Ravikumar, a proprietor of a software company, was among the trio who invested in the rose gardens in the Mandya villages and in Hosur in Tamil Nadu. In all, the three engineers own 13 acres of rose garden between them. “We export the roses that bloom on the garden to Singapore, Kuwait, Dubai and Qatar among other countries. But, owing to the current global situation, we are going to be left with huge losses,” Ravikumar told TOI. The trio, not unlike many engineers and techies, took the plunge into agriculture as a means of escape from their monotonous and mechanical urban life. What is more, the three of them tasted considerable success in their venture too. “We pay a rent of Rs 3 lakh per month for these lands. Now, we are looking at a loss of Rs 1.8 crore. Ours was an immensely successful venture, but now we have no option but to destroy the capsicum and death rose crops,” he rued. Ravikumar said that the market for death roses was huge in several foreign countries, which prompted them to take to its cultivation. “In addition to exporting them, we sold them in bulk in several Indian cities such as Jaipur and Delhi,” said Ravikumar, who however refused to regret his decision to take to farming. “But yes, the financial losses we are suffering certainly makes us sad. But for the Covid-19 pandemic, this would not have happened,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mysuru/trio-of-engineers-who-took-to-rose-cultivation-stare-at-massive-loss/articleshow/75187746.cms||---
April 17, 2020||Rajkot||80-year-old man dies of coronavirus in Botad||Rajkot: Four persons tested positive for Covid-19 in Jangleshwar area of Rajkot on Thursday, taking the tally in the district to 28. The four persons were identified as suspect patients during a surveillance drive by the health department. Rajkot Municipal Corporation sources said a 26-year-old woman and three men aged 34, 40 and 33 tested positive in Jangleshwar, a Corona hotspot area in the city. Municipal health officer Dr. Pankaj Rathod said, “All these persons got infected by the virus from someone in the community. It is a densely populated area and very hard to maintain social distancing. The condition of the 11-day-old baby earlier found infected with the virus is stable. The child didn’t require life support system.” Meanwhile, an 80-year-old person, who tested positive for coronavirus, passed away in Botad district on Wednesday midnight. Three of his family members tested positive for the virus on Thursday. Botad district administration sources said among those who tested positive were two men aged 17 and 55 and a 55-year-old woman. They have been admitted to a hospital temporarily set up in the guesthouse of Sarangpur Temple. The family had attended a marriage function in Ranpur town of Botad district where they came in contact with a few guests who had arrived from Jamalpur area of Ahmedabad. Doctors suspect that the family may have got infected with the virus at the function.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/80-year-old-man-dies-of-coronavirus-in-botad/articleshow/75189035.cms||---
April 17, 2020||Rajkot||Mobile app keeps tabs on Jangaleshwer residents||Rajkot: With several Covid-19 positive cases being recorded in Jangaleshwer, this locality of Rajkot has become a ‘hotspot’. In order to ensure a complete lockdown Rajkot police has designed a mobile app called ‘Safe Rajkot’.“Through Safe Rajkot app, we get to know about the people’s locations at their homes. We have visited all houses in Jangaleshwer and got this application downloaded in the cellphones of all the members of every family living in the area,” said a senior official from the Rajkot police. “Each one of them, who has this app on his or her phone, has to upload his or her photo along with the photo of the house on to this application. With the help of this app, we are able to mark the daily attendance of all those living in Jangaleshwer,” explained the official. Recently, the police booked Amit Sathalia (23) and his wife Sumita Sathalia (20) for the alleged violation of the lockdown order in Jangleshwer. The Sathalia couple had gone to Chamundanagar in Madhapargam to meet Kiran Chhiparia. “After a concerned citizen alerted us, we booked the couple for the crime,” added the official.VIDEO SONG RELEASED Rajkot: A video song ‘salam chhe, salam chhe, ladvaiya o ne salam chhe’ (salute to the corona warriors) orchestrated by ‘We for music group’ and ‘Chandra Photo group’ was released in Bhavnagar on Thursday. The song released by state minister Vibhawari Dave sings paeans of praise for those government officials including doctors and cops waging a war against Covid-19. The song also has the message of ‘stay home, safe home.’||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/mobile-app-keeps-tabs-on-jangaleshwer-residents/articleshow/75189116.cms||---
April 17, 2020||Goa||GMC mulling over ways to avoid crowding of patients||Panaji: Goa Medical College (GMC) and hospital, Bambolim which has suspended its regular out-patient department (OPDs) and elective surgeries since last month due to the coronavirus pandemic, has been deliberating over a new practice to follow once regular OPDs are stated to resume post lockdown. The state’s premier hospital sees about 1,500-2,000 OPD patients and usually conducts over 100 minor and major surgeries on any given day. With social distancing being the new norm, which is likely to remain in practice until the pandemic is completely defeated, GMC will have to work out a system to deal with huge inflow of patients. GMC dean Dr S M Bandekar said they haven’t finalised the plan yet, but whatever practice that will be followed will be decided following discussions with the heads of departments (HODs) at the hospital. “We are still at the discussion stage. More meetings will be held to see how social distancing can be followed before OPDs are restarted,” he said. One of the options, he said, will be calling patients only by appointments so that OPDs are not crowded. The government hospital also sees about 25-30% patients from the bordering districts of Karnataka and Maharashtra. The government had ordered the closure of regular OPDs and non essential surgeries as a precautionary measure against contamination of hospitals due to the Covid-19 threat. Government-run district and sub-district hospitals have restarted their OPDs since this week. However, many private clinics across the state continue to remain shut.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/gmc-mulling-over-ways-to-avoid-crowding-of-patients/articleshow/75190036.cms||---
April 17, 2020||Surat||Textile sector unable to pay workers in April: FIASWI||Surat: The man-made textile (MMF) sector on Thursday urged the central government not to initiate legal action under the Disaster Management Act, 2005 against the cash-starved textile entrepreneurs, who are unable to pay the wages to the workers for the month of April. The businessmen are reeling under non-realisation of payments following the extended lockdown.In a letter to Prime Minister Narendra Modi, the Federation of Indian Art Silk Weaving Industry (FIASWI), apex body of textile sector, stated that the industry has come to a standstill since the lockdown was imposed on March 24 and there is a huge loss of business. The entrepreneurs were not able to recover payments in the first week of April due to the lockdown. As a result, they are unable to pay the labourers in April.FIASWI has sought soft loans and financial stimulus package for the textile sector to increase liquidity and meet the working capital requirements so that the workers can be paid their wages. It has also sought that the central and state Government contribution of 50% towards the wage payment of the labourers in the textile industry.Chairman of FIASWI, Bharat Gandhi, said, “Due to the extended lockdown, there is a major impact on the domestic demand”“The textile sector is bearing huge losses, but the businessmen managed to pay the labourers in March. At a time when textile units are shut due to lockdown till May 3, it is extremely difficult to pay to the workers in April. We request the government not to initiate legal action under Disaster Management Act” added Gandhi.FIASWI requested increase in working capital ad hoc loans by 30% and providing 5% interest subvention, without asking for collateral security. The contribution of the EPF and ESI of both employers and employees, payments of GST dues, electricity bills etc. should be waived off for three months.Gandhi said, “About 1,360 applications under Technology Upgradation Fund (TUF) scheme are pending for the subsidy of Rs 360 crore. The government should release 75% subsidy amount to infuse liquidity in the industry.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/textile-sector-unable-to-pay-workers-in-april-fiaswi/articleshow/75189149.cms||---
April 17, 2020||Business||RBI advises banks to avoid Zoom meetings||Bengaluru: The RBI had advised banks not to use popular video-conferencing app Zoom, a week before the Centre came out with its recommendations. The central government on Thursday advised that Zoom was not a safe or secure app, even for usage by individuals. Last week, the RBI recommended banks use alternatives like Lifesize and Microsoft Office. Many private bank executives said that they had been using Lifesize for some time now, even before the RBI directive. Public-sector banks like SBI have bought proprietary software from Microsoft for video-conferencing. “For the last 3-4 years, we have been using this for video-conferencing, so we will continue to do that,” said an SBI official. With reports that Zoom app is vulnerable to hacking and take over of meetings by malicious participants, many entities have banned its usage including tech giants like Google. “Zoom does not have end-to-end encryption. Look at its key management — Zoom currently manages and stores all of the keys involved in user data encryption in its own cloud infrastructure; which means it can decrypt data if it chooses to,” said Vinod Senthil, CEO of InfySec, a cyber-security firm with banking clients.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/rbi-advises-banks-to-avoid-zoom-meetings/articleshow/75189342.cms||---
April 17, 2020||Rajkot||A cup of hot tea to refresh minds of on-duty cops, RMC staff||Rajkot: Imagine the delight of the cops and the officials of Rajkot Municipal Corporation (RMC) engaged in enforcing the lockdown order, when they are served piping hot tea twice every day.Sharp at 11 am, the volunteers of Swaminarayan Sanstha visit different check points of the Rajkot police and the RMC with freshly made tea in big kettles.“They are like angels without wings. Every day, we eagerly wait for them. Sips of tea are enough to recharge our spirits,” says an official from the Rajkot police. “While most of the NGOs are providing food, no one thought of those government officials on duty. Of course, they didn’t need food packets, but they would definitely appreciate tea, so we thought of this,” said Tyag Vallabh Swamy of the Swaminarayan Sanstha.The organisation has set up a well-sanitized kitchen in Atmiya Institute where professors of IT and management and students give their services as volunteers.“Six teams with kettles full of tea are dispatched twice in a day to different points where police and the RMC officials are on duty,” said Sanjay Tank, one of the volunteers.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/a-cup-of-hot-tea-to-refresh-minds-of-on-duty-cops-rmc-staff/articleshow/75189407.cms||---
April 17, 2020||Rajkot||Farmer ends life over frequent quarrels with wife||Rajkot: Tired of frequent fights with his wife and financial crisis, a farmer committed suicide by consuming pesticides in Juthal village of Maliya Hatina in Junagadh district on Wednesday night. Police said the deceased, identified as Ramnik Vachhani (50), had apparently taken the drastic step as he could no longer bear to live with his belligerent wife who would pick up fights with him every other day. That apart he was also passing through a financial crisis. “On the fateful night, after a fight with his wife, Vachhani left his house and went to his farm where he consumed the pesticides,” said Y N Vala, assistant sub-inspector with Maliya Hatina police station.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/farmer-ends-life-over-frequent-quarrels-with-wife/articleshow/75189331.cms||---
April 17, 2020||Rajkot||Man killed in dinner party, three booked||Rajkot: A man was stabbed to death in Rana Kandola village of Ranavav taluka in Porbandar district on Wednesday night. Police found the body of Ramesh Kadegia (27) in a farm in Rana Kandola village on Thursday morning. “As there were empty dishes of food lying by the side of Kadegia, we assumed there was a dinner party going on at the time of the crime,” said B S Zala, sub-inspector with Ranavav police station. Police identified the accused as Vijay Bhutia and his two unidentified aides on the complaint of Kadegia’s brother Vijay Kadegia. “Vijay alleged that Bhutia along with his two unidentified aides passed by his house in Devda village adjoining Rana Kandola village, brandishing a sword, saying that he would kill his brother,” said Zala.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/man-killed-in-dinner-party-three-booked/articleshow/75189300.cms||---
April 17, 2020||Business||Gold prices inch closer to Rs 50,000/10gm mark||MUMBAI: Thanks to the coronavirus-induced global economic uncertainty and the developments surrounding it, the price of gold — the precious metal generally accepted as a safe haven asset and a hedge against inflation — is on a roll again. On Thursday, the price of near month futures contract for gold on the MCX surged past the Rs 47,250-per-10gm mark, an all-time high level. Additionally, it is inching closer to the psychologically important Rs 50,000 level. Currently, due to the nationwide lockdown, trading in gold in the physical markets has stopped. But is continuing on the commodity futures exchanges. Hence, the futures price is taken as a proxy to physical price of gold. Given the factors that could push its price further — ample global liquidity, economic uncertainty, depreciating currencies and central bank purchases — analysts say the price of the yellow metal could rally for another 30-35% before taking a breather. The month of July 2019 could be taken as the beginning of the current rally in gold when the price was at about Rs 32,200 level. Now, in less than 10 months, the price has appreciated 46% to its current level, data collated by TOI showed. And a 35% rally from here could take the gold prices to around Rs 64,000 level. Motilal Oswal Financial Services associate director & head (commodities & currencies) Kishore Narne said gold has given phenomenal returns in one year due to slowing growth and falling interest rates globally. “Now with the Covid-19 coming into the picture, shutting down of economies could eventually lead to collapse of broader economies. The coming years will see enormous push of liquidity from central banks through printing of money and massive expansion of fiscal deficits, leading to depreciating currencies, which provide the perfect backdrop for continuation of the rally in gold,” he said. “We continue to see gold repeating returns of 30-35% for the next two years as well. Indian gold prices reached an all-time high, but a large part of this has been driven by the depreciating rupee and increased import duty. But international gold prices are still lower than the all-time high (recorded at $1,900/oz in 2011) and so has much room to grow from here,” Narne said. In 2019, some of the large central banks including Russia, China, India and Turkey together bought 658 tonnes of gold. Of this, more than a third was purchased by Russia itself.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/gold-prices-inch-closer-to-rs-50000/10gm-mark/articleshow/75189293.cms||Partha Sinha
April 17, 2020||Business||ICICI, other banks seek rent waivers||MUMBAI: ICICI Bank and other private lenders are understood to have reached out to their landlords seeking a waiver of rental for the period of the lockdown. Sources said that ICICI Bank has asked operating offices to seek a waiver from their landlords as a measure of support to the bank, given the disruption caused by Covid-19. Other private lenders are also seeking waivers. ICICI Bank has nearly 5,300 branches and over 15,000 ATMs across the country and a large number of them are on rented premises. Waiver of even a month’s rent would enable the bank to save several crores. According to the bank’s annual report, it spent nearly Rs 1,200 crore in rent, electricity and taxes. The bank did not respond to a query from TOI. “If the agreement has a force majeure clause which provides for waiver of rent during that period, then the tenant would have the right to invoke that clause and seek a waiver of the rent for that period,” said Rohit Shetty, a senior advocate specialising in real estate laws. If there is no such clause, the parties would have to abide by the terms of the agreement. “If the tenant wants to renegotiate, they can make a proposal, but it is up to the landlord to accept or not,” said Shetty.According to Kunal Moktan, co-founder and CEO of Property Share Capital, a lockdown cannot be constituted as a force majeure, particularly when banks have been functioning and using premises for their IT systems, which have remained operational. “While one can understand retail establishments wanting to negotiate since revenues are directly linked to the store, it is unfair for offices not to pay. Ultimately, landlords also need to meet their obligations to employees, contractors and vendors,” he added. Property Share has a Rs 330-crore real estate portfolio, which is tenanted by mostly multinationals, all of who have met their obligations.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/icici-other-banks-seek-rent-waivers/articleshow/75189329.cms||---
April 17, 2020||Varanasi||Migrants wait for departure, stage protest in shelter home||Varanasi: Migrant workers from other states staying in the shelter homes in Varanasi are gradually showing signs of desperation and discontent since others from the district and within state have left in the last few days after completing the quarantine period. One group of such migrant workers at the shelter home in Rajatalab area boycotted food on Wednesday. District magistrate Varanasi Kaushal Raj Sharma on Thursday said, “We are awaiting state government’s further directions on these migrant workers from other states since they have already completed quarantine period in an institutional shelter home.” Around 637 migrant labourers, who had arrived from Delhi and NCR between March 28 and 31, were kept in five shelter homes in Rajatalab and Pindra areas. On April 11, 126 migrant labourers from Varanasi district were sent home after the quarantine period while 146 natives of Azamgarh, Sant Kabirnagar, Ambedkarnagar, Jaunpur, Chandauli, Mirzapur and Sonbhadra were sent to their homes in six buses after providing grocery kits on April 14. However, 365 people from Bihar, Jharkhand, Madhya Pradesh, Chhattisgarh, West Bengal and Nepal are still in the four shelter homes. One group at the shelter home in Rajatalab area demanded arrangements for sending them home and boycotted food on Wednesday. Officials managed to convince them after which they relented. We are sending a report mentioning that they had completed quarantine period under supervision of health department team at an institutional shelter home to the nodal officers of the respective states and asking them to make arrangements for taking them home, the DM said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/varanasi/migrants-wait-for-departure-stage-protest-in-shelter-home/articleshow/75187471.cms||---
April 17, 2020||Vadodara||Vadodara shopkeepers baffled by new deadlines||Vadodara: Over the past four days, groceries and bakery shop owners in the city are highly confused with their timings. The day hardly begins for them when cops come knocking on shutters at 11 am, asking them shut shop by 12 sharp. They are also threatened of legal action if they defy. The sudden change in deadline has left everybody baffled, including the citizens, who come to buy essential items. The shops were earlier allowed to remain open all day during the lockdown. City police commissioner Anupam Singh Gahlaut, however, said that essential items shops can operate till 2 pm daily while dairy and medical shops can remain open all day. However, most prefer to shut their shops as there is no clear notification about the new deadline. Shopkeepers claimed that they are threatened that their shops will be sealed if they don’t follow the deadline. “We were confused as there was no official announcement regarding deadlines being reduced but we had to obey the cops,” rued a bakery shop owner in Manjalpur. In the old city, cops start making rounds of the shops from 10.30am onwards and so, most harried owners down their shutters well before 11.30 am only. Municipal commissioner Nalin Upadhyay too claimed he has no idea about the deadline for essential items shops being changed or reduced. “If the shops are allowed to operate for only for four hours, then more people will mob the shops. Also, we need time to stock up and arrange inventories,” another shopkeeper said. “We used to get complaints that people hangout at grocery shops or many of them come out multiple times in the pretext of buying essential items. To ensure that people don’t flout lockdown, we decided to push up the deadline. All grocery and bakery shops can remain open till 2 pm every day,” Gahlaut added. Interestingly, some retain chains that sell grocery items issue token to people in the morning and ask them to visit later in the day. This compels citizens to come out of their homes twice for buying essential items.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/vadodara-shopkeepers-baffled-by-new-deadlines/articleshow/75188218.cms||Tushar Tere
April 17, 2020||Business||Rupee nears 77, drop to hurt forex borrowers, students||Mumbai: With no visibility on a resolution to the health and economic crisis triggered by the coronavirus pandemic, the rupee slipped 43 paise to close at a new low of 76.87 against the dollar on Thursday. While the dollar has again gained against emerging market currencies, the rupee has been among the worst performers in Asia, barring Indonesia and Thailand, given the country’s current account deficit. Despite equity markets closing on a positive note, the rupee traded weak. After opening at 76.75, the domestic currency traded within a range and closed at the day’s low of 76.87. On Wednesday, the rupee had closed at 76.44 against the greenback. In the past, a weak rupee would trigger fear of importing inflation through higher fuel prices and costlier imports. This time, the collapse in global crude prices is expected to more than make up for the rupee’s weakness. Also, the Covid-19 crisis is expected to substantially shrink demand for discretionary spending, which means that the electronics import bill also might not rise much. At an institutional level, the biggest sufferers will be those corporates that have borrowed in foreign currency for domestic requirements. At an individual level, those who have already taken admission for educational courses in foreign universities will be the worst effected. State Bank of India group’s India chief economist Soumya Kanti Ghosh, however, sees a bounce back for the domestic currency in coming months. “We expect a current account surplus of $19 billion (around 0.7% of GDP) in FY21. Overall, we also expect a balance of payment surplus of $67 million. Thus, the rupee will get some cushion from the volatile portfolio outflow and the rupee can have a definitive appreciative bias in the current fiscal,” he said. According to ratings agency Moody’s, it assesses 12 companies in India — which have a total foreign debt of $11.5 billion — would be hit by the rupee’s depreciation. Among these, Vedanta has $670 million of borrowing that is due for maturity in June 2021, and HT Global IT solutions which has $368 million due in July 2021, which have a natural hedge in terms of dollar revenues. Besides these, issuers like HPCL Mittal Energy ($300 million), JSW Steel ($500 million) and Marble II ($500 million) also have dollar earnings. Bharti Airtel ($505 million), Motherson Sumi ($400 million) and Tata Motors ($263 million) also have some dollar revenues and have managed to hedge some of their exposures. Other issuers are Tata Motors, Tata Chemicals, Tata Steel and Macrotech Developers. According to Anindya Banerjee, DVP (currency & interest rate derivatives) at Kotak Securities, the rupee will continue to decline. But some of the positive developments that could slow the decline are the lifting of lockdown and a normal monsoon supporting agriculture growth and the fact that the rate of increase of Covid-19 cases has slowed. Earlier this week, HDFC chairman Deepak Parekh warned that the economy was at the risk of entering stage three in terms of both the health as well as an economic crisis. In health, stage three is when there is a community spread and in finance stage three is when loans turn into non-performing assets. “FII outflow was around $4.9 billion in Indian shares since March and this has surpassed the 2008 figures. Upcoming GDP and IIP data may be lower in India due to the lower industrial activity, and lockdown in India may reduce spendings. Lower demand may also be the reason of the big dent on the Indian economy. Lower crude prices and good monsoon expectation, however, may support the Indian economy further,” said Anuj Gupta, DVP (commodities & currency research) at Angel Broking.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/rupee-nears-77-drop-to-hurt-forex-borrowers-students/articleshow/75189316.cms||---
April 17, 2020||Surat||IIIT Surat students develop AI Covid-19 scanner||Surat: Two budding engineers of Indian Institute of Information Technology (IIIT), Surat have shown considerable ingenuity to develop a Covid-19 scanner that helps to identify a potential patient without any need for a human to directly come in contact with the latter. The artificial intelligence-based technology has been developed by second year students of engineering while working remotely from Bikaner in Rajasthan and Ropar in Punjab, putting to best use the time available to them because of nationwide lockdown to contain the spread of coronavirus. The institute is preparing to approach Ministry of Human Resource Development (MHRD) for funds to further develop the scanner for professional use.Krishna Ojha, a student of electronics engineering, and Ekta Arora, a student of computer science, used video cameras, data of infected persons’ movements, machine learning software, ultrasonic sensor and other devices to develop the scanner remotely. Ojha is in Bikaner since March 2 as he had undergone a surgery and Arora is in Ropar since the declaration of lockdown. The scanner instructs a patient to position himself properly and studies his/her body movements for a couple of minutes. If the patient has Covid-19 symptoms like cold, cough, running nose or sneezes, the scanner immediately analyzes the data and takes the former’s x-ray. "Many of my family members are doctors and it was shocking to know that many doctors had got infected in Rajasthan while treating Covid-19 patients. Hence, I and Ekta thought of developing a scanner that can identify a potential patient without any human having to examine him/her physically," Ojha told TOI over phone."We used x-ray data of Covid-19 patients to analyze chest infection. The scanner’s artificial intelligence itself decides if the person has infection and of what degree before issuing an alert to doctors," said Ojha."We had limited resources and it was challenging to develop the scanner while being under lockdown. The AI Covid-19 scanner can be used for examining patients after attaching it with some hi-tech medical equipment like digital x-ray scanner,” said Arora.The students submitted the project after its completion through video to faculty members of the institute. "Our students have developed something which is needed most in the current times. After their video presentation, we decided to approach MHRD for funding to develop the AI Covid-19 scanner to advance level," said Upena Dalal, dean academic, IIIT.PointersAI Covid-19 scanner (named Corontine) has been developed by Krishna Ojha and Ekta Arora, BTech students of IIIT, SuratIt automizes first stage of patient examinationIt first positions a person through audio instructionsIts video cameras then study the person’s body movements It records and matches the movements with its dataThe AI Covid-19 scanner can identify symptoms such as sneeze, running nose, cough and fever If basic symptoms of the person match, it decides to take his/her chest x-rayThe x-ray is then matched by it with the data of Covid-19 patientsA medical professional is alerted for further procedure if there is match on multiple criteria of the person’s symptoms||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/iiit-surat-students-develop-ai-covid-19-scanner/articleshow/75189095.cms||Yagnesh Bharat Mehta
April 17, 2020||Business||Pricol invokes ‘force majeure’ as ‘matter of precaution’||Chennai: Coimbatore-based automotive component and precision engineered product maker Pricol has invoked the force majeure clause against all its suppliers and service providers. Force majeure is a legal clause that means sudden unforeseen circumstances and acts of God that prevent an entity from fulfilling its contractual obligations including payments,“We have invoked the FM (force majeure) clause as a matter of precaution as advised by our legal team to all providers of products and services to us. All our OEM customers have done the same to us and hence to be on the right side of the law we have done the same to our suppliers of products and services. We have very little exports and barring two domestic OEMs, all have invoked the FM clause,” said Vikram Mohan, MD, Pricol.Pricol supplies parts to some vehicle makers including Suzuki, Toyota, Tata Motors, Renault-Nissan, Volkswagen, Honda, Fiat, Mahindra & Mahindra and Mercedes Benz. It’s two wheeler customers include Royal Enfield, TVS Motor Company, Suzuki, Triumph, Hero Motocorp, Honda Motorcycle & Scooter India, Yamaha, Harley Davidson, Mahindra, BMW, KTM and Bajaj among others.Although a couple of Indian OEMs have announced force majeure against component suppliers, global OEMs are still in wait and watch mode. Earlier this week Hero Motocorp, which had invoked FM, told around 300 suppliers from India and around the world in a virtual townhall meeting that it would revoke the decision.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/pricol-invokes-force-majeure-as-matter-of-precaution/articleshow/75189327.cms||Nandini Sen Gupta
April 17, 2020||Madurai||Relaxation in payment of electricity bills sought||Madurai: A consumer body has written to the chief minister seeking relaxation in paying the electricity bills for commercial establishments and for micro, small and tiny enterprises. The organisation has pointed out at the government direction asking consumers to pay the same amount they had paid during the previous pay cycle for their next due. A Sankar, executive director of Empower centre for consumer and environment education, research and advocacy stated that this would be unfair as commercial and industrial establishments are closed for more than three weeks and will remain closed for a few more weeks due to the lockdown. The rights body urged the government to consider these circumstances and grant relief in payment of electricity bills. It also sought dignified and safe mode of transportation for sanitary workers who are left with no other option but travel along with garbage despite hardships in combating Covid-19 as the front line of defence. Empower urged the government to give essential grocery items kit worth Rs 500 free of cost to all ration card holderstnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/relaxation-in-payment-of-electricity-bills-sought/articleshow/75189235.cms||---
April 17, 2020||Kolkata||Packaging problem brings back ‘loose’ oil||Kolkata: The acute shortage in packaging materials, like plastic pouch, jerry can and PET bottles, has been forcing consumers to go back to old days and carry containers to shops to buy “loose oil”, albeit branded. But with people not really used to buying oil poured out in small containers from a large 15kg drum any more, they seem to be a bit sceptical about its purity. However, traders are not left with much of an option. Manufacturing units are either shut or operating much below its capacity. Transporting products being a big problem owing to lack of vehicles, only a few of the plastic pouches, high-density polythene jerry cans and polyethylene terephthalate bottles are available for oil packaging. As a result, oil pouches have disappeared from grocery stores and retail chains, not because of oil scarcity but because of package shortage. Some stores have also marked up prices for the few packaged edible oil they have. “Manpower shortage has crippled supply chain. My warehouse has enough stock, but my warehouse keeper is absent and so, no delivery can take place,” said a senior office-bearer of Indian Plastic Federation. As big retail chains don’t sell loose oil, people in some pockets have started believing that there is a shortage of supply. “We have no shortage of edible oil, be it palm, mustard, soyabean, or rice bran oil. But packaged edible oil in smaller quantities is not available. We are receiving branded edible oil in 15-kg drums,” said Biswanath Agarwal, general secretary of Posta Merchants’ Association. Nabin Sarkar, a retailer at Bhawanipore market, said, “We have gone back to old days of selling loose oil. Packaged oil came in in 1989-90 and its demand has been increasing,” said Sarkar, who has exhausted his packaged oil stock at least five days ago. When the lockdown was first announced, packaged edible oil vanished from shops in the panic-buying spree. “We did not give out more than 5 litres to any individual. But our warehouse is empty of packaged oil now. Since we don’t sell loose oil, we have stopped selling,” said a manager of a chain at New Alipore. The fortified oil segment —oil with vitamin content—comes in packaged format, said an FMCG major official. “At a time when adulteration is common, sealed packs symbolise safety, hygiene and purity, and so, the demand,” he said. People are ready to pay more for packaged oil. “I could not find packaged mustard oil for two days. I finally got it at a retail chain, though for a higher price,” said Arunabha Roy at Behala market.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/packaging-problem-brings-back-loose-oil/articleshow/75189554.cms||Krishnendu Bandyopadhyay
April 17, 2020||Rajkot||Two drivers booked for lockdown order violation||Rajkot: Two ambulance drivers were booked for allegedly breaking the lockdown order by allegedly taking passengers in their vehicles in Bhuj of Kutch district and Babara of Amreli district on Thursday morning. In Bhuj, the accused, identified as Khoda Koli (43), was arrested for allegedly transporting two women and four children in his ambulance when his ambulance was stopped by the cops at Sheikh Pir chick post in Bhuj. “Koli was transporting the group of women and children from Gandhidham to Naliya in Kutch district. We did not book the passengers as they were all women and children. Koli said that he was paid Rs 3,500 for the job to transport the passengers to Naliya from Gandhidham,” said Rameshdan Gadhvi, assistant sub-inspector with Pathar police station. Meanwhile in Babra, a driver and five persons were booked for allegedly travelling in an ambulance. “The ambulance was stopped at Khambhala check post. We arrested the driver and the five men for the alleged violation of the lockdown order,” said an official from Babra police station.Meanwhile, the Amreli district collector on Thursday issued a notification, making mandatory the wearing of masks for all the people in the district. “A penalty of Rs 500 to Rs 1,000 will be collected from those found not wearing masks from Thursday onwards,” said a release issued by the Disaster Management Cell of Amreli district administration,.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/two-drivers-booked-for-lockdown-order-violation/articleshow/75189359.cms||---
April 17, 2020||Rajkot||Siddhpur PI attacked in police station, three booked||Palanpur: A police inspector was attacked inside Siddhpur police station, allegedly by father of two men who were arrested for violation of lockdown orders on Thursday. According to police, PI N V Mahida suffered injuries on the head and was currently under treatment at the government hospital.The incident took place after Mahida arrested Mayudin Saiyad and his brother Raiyadun Saiyed, residents of Irani Jhumpuda in Siddhapur, for violation of lockdown. The duo was brought to the police station for further paper work.A little later, father of the duo, Akabar Miya Saiyed, came to the police station and entered into heated arguments with Mahida. Akbar pushed Mahida and he fell down on the ground and suffered injury on the head. The PI was taken to Siddhpur civil hospital for treatment.However, the accused managed to escape from the police station. Police have booked all three under sections 307, 323, 232, 294(b), 506, 153, 189 and 114 of the IPC.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/siddhpur-pi-attacked-in-police-station-three-booked/articleshow/75189386.cms||---
April 17, 2020||Surat||Curfew in select areas of Surat||Surat: Curfew was clamped in five police station areas and parts of Limbayat area of the city on Thursday following a steep rise in the number of Covid-19 positive cases since Wednesday. City police commissioner R B Brahmbhatt said the curfew will be imposed from midnight of April 16 to 6am on April 22 in police station limits of Athwalines, Lalgate, Mahidharpura and Salabatpura. Kamrunagar police chowky area of Limbayat police station will also be under curfew.However, there will be relaxation for women to buy milk and vegetables from 1pm to 4 pm. However, Brahmbhatt warned the residents of the areas under curfew that the relaxations will be withdrawn if social distancing is not maintained by women. "The decision to extend the curfew will be taken after assessing the situation in these areas. If women do not follow social distancing strictly in the areas, the permission to go out for buying milk and vegetables will also be withdrawn," said Brahmbhatt.In all, 38 positive cases were reported in city of which majority are from the areas where curfew was clamped. On Thursday, 14 cases were reported from Man Darwaja Tenement under the limits of Salabatpura police station. "If citizens in other parts do not follow the lockdown strictly, curfew will be imposed in those areas as well. Police will take strict action against those found violating the curfew and lockdown orders," said Brahmbhatt.Additional bandobast of CISF and CRPF have been deployed in the areas under curfew.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/curfew-in-select-areas-of-surat/articleshow/75189559.cms||---
April 17, 2020||Patna||Inmates of Beur Central Jail volunteer to stitch masks||PATNA: Prisoners lodged in Beur Central Jail have extended their “helping hand” in the fight against Covid-19 pandemic by making face masks. So far, more than 10,000 face masks have been stitched for use by all jail inmates and other staff during the lockdown period. Jail superintendent Jawahar Lal Prabhakar told this newspaper that several inmates volunteered to make the face masks in view of the scarcity in the market. “They were provided all items required for the purpose, right from cloth to sewing machine. As a result all inmates of the jail got protective masks to safeguard themselves against Covid-19 virus and then they were in a position to supply masks to the inmates of other prisons,” he said. The superintendent pointed out that the inmates of this jail were now meeting the requirements of other jails located at Phulwarisharif, Danapur, Patna City, Masaurihi, Hilsa, Barh, Hajipur and several other places in the state. “Though prisoners are invariably looked down upon by the society at large, these inmates are imbued with a sense of purpose and service to the nation and have accomplished this herculean task with indomitable spirit. The work of stitching masks will continue till the nation becomes free from COVID-19 pandemic,”said Prabhakar. He asserted that for the safety of prisoners, prison premises are being sanitised using disinfectants at regular intervals. Thermal screening of inmates is also being done. Isolation centres and quarantine cells have also been set up for the safety of prisoners and jail staff. “Anyone who is sentenced to imprisonment is subjected to thermal screening at the entrance gate and is thoroughly sanitized before allowing to enter. New arrivals are kept in one of the seven isolation wards for 14 days and then, if found safe, transferred to the general ward. In case of any suspicion, the inmate is examined by a medical officer and sent to the quarantine cell,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/inmates-of-beur-central-jail-volunteer-to-stitch-masks/articleshow/75187393.cms||B K Mishra
April 17, 2020||Rajkot||Chotila lions may have origins in Gir sanctuary itself||RAJKOT: Their friendship is being described like that of Jay and Viru of blockbuster Sholay. The two lions, who had found a new habitat in Chobari grassland near Chotila in November last year, are now moving together inside the deep sanctuary area of Gir. Till now, they haven’t encountered any other lion which could lead to a much-feared territorial fight. Forest department officials now suspect that these two lions could have separated from this parental pride in Gir sanctuary itself, unlike the earlier theory that they had ventured into Chotila from Babra in Amreli district. On Sunday, the two had reached Junagadh near the Girnar mountain. Now, they are moving deep inside the sanctuary in the direction of Gir-Somnath district. They are in search of a lioness and in order to do so, they may acquire the territory by defeating some old lion in the area. Officials tracking these radio-collared lions are surprised to note that the duo are well-versed with the routes not just from Gondal side, but also the entire sanctuary area. Talking to TOI, chief conservator of forest (Junagadh), S K Srivastava said, “The lions are moving downwards in Gir sanctuary area. When they came in Chotila, we were not sure from where they had come, but they way they are moving on a predetermined path, indicates that they have their origins in the Gir sanctuary itself.” According to sources, the forest department will get a clear picture about their origin in a couple of days by studying their movements. The lions are continuing to move downwards from Gir mountain ranges, but forest officials are eagerly waiting to see that continue moving on same path or return back. The lions were moving around in the peripheral areas of three districts- Surendrangar, Rajkot and Amreli - when they came to Chotila in November. They had also killed a leopard to prove their supremacy over the territory.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/chotila-lions-may-have-origins-in-gir-sanctuary-itself/articleshow/75189283.cms||Nimesh Khakhariya
April 17, 2020||Patna||Kaimur: Man snatches cellphone from villager to talk to wife, arrested||PATNA: A newly married man was arrested at Sakra village under the Kudra police station area in Kaimur district on Wednesday on charges of snatching cellphone from a youth so that he can talk to his wife during the lockdown period. The arrested man was identified as Sanjay Kharwar (20). “One of Sanjay’s friends, Mannu Kharwar (23), was also arrested,” Kaimur SP Dilnawaz Ahmed said. The SP added that Sanjay got married in February. However, his wife was staying at her paternal house as the ‘gauna’ ritual had been postponed due to the lockdown, he said. “As Sanjay was keen to talk to his wife, he discussed the matter with Mannu. Mannu then snatched a cellphone from a youth, who had gone out of his house to buy essential items. Sanjay was also present at the spot when the incident occurred. Mannu then gave the cellphone to Sanjay to talk to his wife,” the SP said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/man-snatches-cellphone-from-villager-to-talk-to-wife-arrested/articleshow/75187002.cms||Debashish Karmakar
April 17, 2020||Patna||70 quarantined, two private hospitals sealed in Patna||PATNA: Two hospitals and two diagnostic centres in the city were sealed on Thursday and more than 70 healthcare workers quarantined for coming in contact with a 35-year-old man from Vaishali, who had tested positive on Wednesday night, and is said to be in a critical condition at AIIMS-Patna. Patna DM Kumar Ravi said, “The Vaishali man is also a cancer patient and had visited two hospitals for treatment— Popular Hospital on New Bypass Road and Central Hospital in Khusrupur.” He added, “He had gone to Max Life Diagnostics at Kankarbagh for various check-ups, while a staff of Sona Diagnostic at Meethapur had gone to him for collecting his sample. So far, 73 health workers, including doctors, nurses and sanitation workers, have been quarantined and their samples are being collected. We are tracing others, who could have come in contact with this person or the health centres.” State nodal officer for Covid-19 Dr Ragini Mishra said he was admitted with brain tumour, but has also developed respiratory problems. “He has not travelled outside the state for the past three months. He was tested for Covid-19 virus as he was suffering from severe acute respiratory illness (SARI) and he was found positive for the virus," Dr Mishra said. The Vaishali resident had first come to a private hospital at Khusrupur on March 23. He was admitted in the hospital for four days. He then went to a private hospital on Bypass Road on April 3 in an ambulance and was discharged on April 7. When his condition deteriorated he was brought to AIIMS-Patna on Tuesday. Doctors and officials are now apprehending that the Vaishali native might have got infected in either of the two private hospitals or labs. “Since he has no travel history, we think he might have caught the virus from hospitals he visited,” said Dr Mishra. She added that co-morbidity in Covid-19 has further deteriorated his condition and cited the example of the Munger native, who also had co-morbidities and later developed SARI and eventually died.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/70-quarantined-2-private-hospitals-sealed/articleshow/75187346.cms||Sheezan Nezami
April 17, 2020||Patna||Those attacking healthcare staff, cops to face action: Bihar DGP||PATNA: A day after some police personnel and medical teams carrying out screening to check the spread of coronavirus were attacked by mobs, state DGP Gupteshwar Pandey warned of stern action against those involved in such attacks. “We will not spare anybody found to be involved in attacking healthcare professionals in the state. We will ensure they are punished by the court of law at the earliest,” Pandey said. He added, “If anyone misbehaves with any health worker, medical officer, government employee, magistrate or police, strict action will be initiated against them regardless of their ‘pairvi’ (approach), class, caste, religion or political affiliation. There will be no discrimination.” Referring to the Aurangabad incident in which healthcare and police personnel were brutally assaulted by villagers, the DGP said altogether 25 people have been arrested and charges of attempt slapped against them. “Their names have been included in the ‘goonda register’ at the local police station,” he added. Aurangabad DM Saurabh Jorwal, however, put the number of arrests at 45, including the main conspirator Subash Yadav. “They are doing their job in scorching sun, from morning to evening and have bare minimum facilities. But a few people, whose number is limited, are trying to create troubles. We will not tolerate them,” the DGP told reporters. On Wednesday a BDO, three members of a medical team and six police personnel were injured in two separate incidents in Aurangabad and East Champaran districts. Earlier, similar incidents were reported from Madhubani and Madhepura districts. “Such incidents are just manifestation of growing social unrest due to extended lockdown,” said a senior IAS officer, who is due to retire from service later this year. A 32-year-old migrant worker, Tuntun Ram, who returned to his village in Vaishali district from Delhi on March 28, said, echoed this view. “We don’t have jobs. Our savings have dried up. How will we survive under such circumstances? We are spending sleepless nights. Any untoward incident can happen under circumstances,” he said. Former director of AN Sinha Institute of Social Studies S Narayan also descried such public outrage as a fallout of social unrest. “Such incidents will increase in the days to come if the government machinery failed to address their grievances,” he told this newspaper on Thursday. He also said that incidents of crime would also go up in the future. “When the savings whatever they have today, will dry up they will commit crime. So there are chances of criminal activities going up,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/those-attacking-healthcare-staff-cops-to-face-action-dgp/articleshow/75186939.cms||Ramashankar
April 17, 2020||Patna||Many worried as kids ‘stuck’ in metro cities||PATNA: Parents of children studying in other states, particularly in metro cities, are panic-stricken after the lockdown was extended. Many are making desperate attempts to bring back their wards apprehending that the prevailing situation may further deteriorate. Sanjeev Kumar, a resident of Bahadurpur in Patna, whose daughter studies in Bhartiya Vidyapeeth, Pune, is restless as he has no clue how to bring her back home. “I had suggested her not to come home during Holi and stay back till her semester exams in May. It was because of my faulty decision that she is stuck there,” he said. Kriti Aarwal, a resident of Saguna More, is also very anxious for her daughter Shweta, who is in Mumbai. “I make video calls to her both in the morning and evening. I have asked her not to go outside and stay in the hostel,” Kirti said. Mohd Jameel, whose son studies in Jamia Millia University, New Delhi, said, “After the college hostels were shut, I asked him to stay with our relatives in Jamia Nagar. But now several areas have been sealed in that locality. He had booked his air ticket for April 15 but it was again cancelled due to the extended lockdown.” After the lockdown was extended, several students, who are virtually stranded in other cities vent their anger on social media. A management student Puja Mehta, who is in Bengaluru, wrote: “I had booked my air icket from Bengaluru to Patna for April 19 but it was cancelled. The airlines refunded the money.” An engineering student Kshitij Mishra says, “The Centre should also exempt domestic flights in the extended lockdown period, taking certain precautionary measures. At least students can go back to their native places. Now, I have to spend another two weeks in Delhi.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/many-worried-as-kids-stuck-in-metro-cities/articleshow/75187518.cms||---
April 17, 2020||Patna||Danapur railway hospital dedicated for Covid-19||PATNA: The 80-bed Danapur divisional railway hospital has been made Covid-19 dedicated hospital at the advisory of Railway Board. This railway hospital is the first of its kind in the East Central Railway (ECR) to be dedicated for Covid-19 cases. Danapur divisional railway manager (DRM) Sunil Kumar said railways has procured 18 ventilators for the hospital, while orders for 12 more ventilators have been placed with the registered supplier. “We have also tied up with the Indira Gandhi Institute of Medical Sciences, Patna for quick disposal of surgical waste materials of the hospital,” he said. The DRM said in emergency cases, non-corona patients are being referred to railway superspecialty hospital at Karbighaiya. “The outdoor patient department of the hospital has started functioning from the old building for non-Covid cases. Medicine counters are also open at the old building for non-corona OPD patients,” he said. Chief medical superintendent of Danapur railway hospital Dr R K Verma said railways has also arranged ‘online medical advice’ for patients, mostly railway employees, who are unable to visit the hospital due to the lockdown. The DRM said in addition to the present strength of railway doctors at the Danapur railway hospital, doctors and experienced nursing staff would be hired on temporary basis for around three months. The DRM said railways has also developed a 156-bed quarantine facility for the Covid-19 suspects at Madhu Vihar railway colony in Khagaul.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/danapur-railway-hospital-dedicated-for-covid-19/articleshow/75187444.cms||Kumod Verma
April 17, 2020||Patna||Cops add to woes of HIV+ people in Bihar amid lockdown||PATNA: The lockdown due to the coronavirus pandemic has thousands of people living with HIV/AIDS across the state facing a harrowing time trying to get their medications to maintain prescribed dosage. During normal times, people living with HIV  or PLHIVs pick up the monthly quota of their medicines from their respective antiretroviral therapy (ART) centre in every district. Those who cannot visit the ART centre, volunteers from the PLHIV community, contact them through phone and ensure the delivery of medicines at their meeting points or, in some cases, at the patients’ home. Though a majority of PLHIV prefer not to receive their medicines at home in order to protect their identity in the neighbourhood. But after the lockdown, they are facing harassment by police personnel on the ground while trying to reach the ART centres to pick up the medicines. There are instances of several PLHIVs either being thrashed or shooed away by cops and most of them do not register any complaint as they find it difficult to reveal their identity. Woman PLHIVs are the worst sufferers. In some cases, police did not allow them to reach the ART centre even after revealing the identity of being HIV positive as well as showing the ART Green Card (prescription card). This happens as many constables are not aware of the green card or the medical urgency of PLHIVs. Some community volunteers were harassed while venturing out to deliver medicines at the patients’ contact address during lockdown. “On Wednesday, a police officer imposed a fine of Rs 500 on a PLHIV in Hajipur when he was going to the ART centre on his four-wheeler to pick up his monthly dose. Police officer did this despite the PLHIV man revealing his identity and urgency behind visiting the ART centre. It is a horrible situation for the PLHIV,” Pooja Mishra, state project officer of Vihaan, told TOI on Wednesday. Volunteers of Vihaan deliver medicines to those PLHIVs who can’t visit the ART centres. “A few days back, four woman PLHIVs of Patna district’s Athmalgola area were humiliated and shooed away by the police at Bakhtiarpur in the name of lockdown while they were coming on foot to Patna-based RMRI ART centre to collect their medicines. Policemen were not ready to hear their plea about shortage of medicine. Ultimately, the rural women returned to their village,” Gyan Ranjan, secretary, Bihar Network for People Living with HIV/AIDS Society (BNP) told TOI on Wednesday. Ranjan himself was hit with a baton by a police officer near Gud Ki Mandi in Patna City last Sunday when he was returning home after delivering medicines to a PLHIV. “The police officer hit me with a baton, even without asking the reason for my venturing out on road,” Ranjan said. He added that he has information about 20 such incidents of police harassment. Mishra says, she and other leading volunteers have informed senior officials of the Bihar State AIDS Control Society (BSACS) about police harassment being meted out to the PLHIVs. “We have also sought their intervention and a proper coordination with the police department,” she said. “The state government should conduct an orientation programme for lower rank police officers and constables as they are not aware of sensitivity and urgency of HIV/AIDS patients,” said Dimple Jasmine, Vaishali district coordinator of Vihaan project. Bihar has around 60,000 PLHIVs. Of them, 56,000 are above the age of 18 years, while the rest 4,000 below the age of 18 years. Meanwhile, ADG (headquarters) Jitendra Kumar said the police personnel have been asked not to harass people coming out of their homes for medical reasons. “The police Headquarters has so far not received any complaint regarding harassment caused to the HIV+ people,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/cops-add-to-woes-of-hiv-people-amid-lockdown/articleshow/75186915.cms||Madan Kumar
April 17, 2020||Varanasi||BHU’s Moodle imparting personalised learning||Varanasi: In order to facilitate teaching-learning process in Banaras Hindu University during lockdown period in the wake of Covid-19 outbreak, the computer centre of the university has configured and implemented the well-known learning management system – ‘Moodle’, an online learning management system (LMS). BHU spokesperson Rajesh Singh said that the ‘moodle’ is an online learning management system (LMS) that enables educators to create their own private website providing dynamic courses that extend learning any time, anywhere. It provides educators and learners with a secure and integrated system to create personalized learning environments. The system has a number of features like course homepage, content sharing, discussion rooms and even online examination. Singh said that the computer centre has configured and hosted this platform for teachers and students. Assistant professor in department of Geography Dr Shubhra Sharma is administering the platform and helping faculty members in using it. She has also prepared a step-by-step process to use the platform, available on the ‘moodle’ page of the university. All the teachers of the university have been invited to use the platform for teaching-learning activities.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/varanasi/bhus-moodle-imparting-personalised-learning/articleshow/75187487.cms||---
April 17, 2020||Goa||Goa: ‘Convicts on parole will be isolated upon return’||PANAJI: Around 40 inmates who have been granted parole will be lodged separately upon their return, an official at the Colvale Central jail said. During the past few days, there have been repeated demands by some inmates that they be released on parole as was done in prisons of other states. The jail authorities had put off their demands on grounds that such measures were not required to be taken at Colvale jail as it was not overcrowded like other prisons. Parole applications sanctioned since mid-February were also kept on hold as a precautionary measure. A jail official said that after consultations with the state level committee, some inmates have been released on parole. Inspector general of prisons (IGP) Gurudas Pilarnkar confirmed that around 40 inmates have been released with their parole period ranging from 15 to 30 days. “We have adequate cells to keep convicts is isolation once they complete the parole period,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/convicts-on-parole-will-be-isolated-upon-return/articleshow/75190048.cms||---
April 17, 2020||Mysuru||Its family time for Jayanthi in Hampi||Hubballi: Veteran Kannada actress Jayanthi and her family members are stuck in Hampi ever since the lockdown was announced on March 24. Jayanthi and her family visited Hampi in the first week of March and were planning to return after Ugadi. But the lockdown left them stranded in Hampi. With the lockdown extended to May 3, it looks like the senior actress will be stuck in Hampi for another two weeks. Her son Krishna Kumar, who is with her, said that they had come to Hampi to work on his project “Hampi By Night”. “We planned to return after celebrating Ugadi in Ballari which is my mom’s native place. To our shock, the PM announced the lockdown on March 24. And then, just when we packed up to return two days ago, it was extended,” he added. Krishna said his mother was particular that they follow the lockdown. “So we have not approached anyone for a pass to be able to travel to Bengaluru,” he said. Jayanthi spends her time watching old Kannada, Telugu and Tamil movies. She catches up with her friends including Bharathi Vishnuvardhan, Hemachoudhary, Girija Lokesh and Shruti over phone.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mysuru/its-family-time-for-jayanthi-in-hampi/articleshow/75188131.cms||Basavaraj Kattimani
April 17, 2020||Pune||Cops come to aid of stranded pupil||Pune: Police on Wednesday came to the rescue of a 21-year-old engineering student, who was stranded in a flat at Shivajinagar Gaonthan, after exhausting all her money. After receiving a request from her to shift her to her brother's home in Araneyshwar, police swung into action and contacted her parents in Aurangabad to ascertain if they are indeed brother and sister. On receiving confirmation from the parents, the police shifted the student to her brother’s flat within 20 minutes on Wednesday afternoon. The student tweeted to city police commissioner K Venkatesham, requesting that she be shifted to her brother's residence as she had exhausted all her money. “After ascertaining the facts, I called up the student and told her to get ready and pack her belongings,” inspector Manisha Zende of Shivajinagar policesaid. “We sanitised the vehicle before allowing the student to board it and then dropped her at Araneyshwar,” she said. “We have told them to contact the police if they need any help,” she said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/cops-come-to-aid-of-stranded-pupil/articleshow/75190046.cms||---
April 17, 2020||Delhi||Delhi to start plasma trials for Covid-19: CM Arvind Kejriwal||NEW DELHI: Chief minister Arvind Kejriwal on Thursday said that Delhi will soon begin clinical trials of plasma enrichment techniques to help critically ill coronavirus patients. Addressing a digital press conference, Kejriwal said that the Centre has given its nod to Delhi to conduct the trials. Kerala, Maharashtra and Rajasthan have already got the approval from the Centre for clinical trials of plasma enrichment techniques. “The trials will begin in the next three or four days. If successful, Delhi government will be able to save the lives of serious Covid-19 patients,” the chief minister said. Kejriwal said various countries across the world had used plasma technology and achieved successful results. “People suffering from heart or respiratory diseases continue to be at a higher risk of losing their lives due to Covid-19. If plasma technology is used in such cases, it can save lives,” he said. Kejriwal said that doctors of Delhi government hospitals had been doing a detailed research on this. “We have been given the approval for the trial. If it turns out to be successful, we will be able to focus on trying to save the lives of serious patients. The results will be known in 4-5 days.” The plasma transfusion technology involves taking the blood of the person cured of Covid-19, which has anti-bodies that helped the person recover, extracting plasma from it and then transfusing it into an infected person. The chief minister also urged people to identify the poor and inform the government so that relief measures reach them. There was a need to create awareness among people who are devoid of information, Kejriwal said. “Our teams on social media are monitoring such cases 24X7. We need your support in helping us with information on who is hungry and we will make sure that the support reaches there. Over nine lakh people had lunch and dinner at hunger relief centres on Wednesday. We have the capacity to feed 15 lakh people,” Kejriwal said. He added that about 15 lakh non-ration card holders had already applied for ration through the government’s portal.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/delhi-to-start-plasma-trials-for-covid-cm/articleshow/75190073.cms||---
April 17, 2020||Goa||Open markets, allow affordable fish: Goa Congress||MARGAO: Goa Pradesh Congress Committee (GPCC) president Girish Chodankar on Thursday urged chief minister Pramod Sawant to open the fish markets and ensure availability of affordable and fresh fish in Goa. Pointing out to skyrocketing prices and shortage of fish, Chodankar demanded that the fish markets be opened by maintaining social distancing and hygiene “instead of letting fly by night fish traders fleece the public.” He asked the chief minister to give directives to the directorate of fisheries and authorities concerned to ensure that those availing subsidies from the government stop exporting and selling fish outside Goa immediately. “Nearly 40% to 45% of Goan fish catch is exported every year, and Goans are left to consume leftover fish at very high prices. If our money is used for subsidies we should get first preference to choose fish,” Chodankar said in a press statement. He also stressed on the need for a study on the declining fish catch.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/cong-open-mkts-allow-affordable-fish/articleshow/75190061.cms||---
April 17, 2020||Pune||7-year-old girl united with family||Pune: A seven-year-girl, who was stuck at her native village in Bhor taluka, was reunited with her hearing and speech impaired parents on Thursday, with help from the police. The girl had gone to her native place and was staying with her maternal uncle and grandparents before lockdown was announced. After the shutdown, the girl’s uncle and her grandparents were not able to secure the digital pass for their movement, while her parents were unable to fill the online forms. Social worker Nandini Jadhav then approached deputy commissioner of police (crime) Bachchan Singh and narrated the family’s plight. Singh directed inspector Mahendra Jagtap to fetch the girl to Pune, following which she was brought back to her house in Pune on Thursday afternoon. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/7-year-old-girl-united-with-family/articleshow/75190052.cms||---
April 17, 2020||Bhopal||Clinical trial of anti-leprosy drug for Covid-19 at AIIMS-Bhopal||BHOPAL: Could an immunomodulatory drug developed by Indians in 1966, boost resistance against Covid-19? Mycobacterium w (Mw) was developed as an anti-leprosy drug and found some success in cure for warts, TB and cancer. Now, medical experts will begin its clinical trial against coronavirus infection. Mw is said to boost the immune response against several pathogens. AIIMS Bhopal has been approved for clinical trial of ‘Mycobacterium w’ in critically ill Covid-19 patients, said institute director, Dr Sarman Singh, here on Thursday. Currently, there is no cure for Covid-19. The AIIMS trial aims to understand the increase in immunity and resistance to Covid-19 after administrating Mw. Trials would begin by next week, after the injections arrive from Ahmedabad. Estimated time for completion of the study is three months. The study will also evaluate the efficacy and safety of Mycobacterium w in preventing Covid-19 in subjects at risk of getting infected with Covid-19. Another objective of the study is to carry out controlled clinical trial to compare the efficacy and safety of this immunomodulatory drug in Covid-19 positive adult patients, who are hospitalised but not critically ill, said the director. The study approved by FDA (USA) and ICMR, India, is being done in collaboration with Council of Scientific and Industrial Research. It is being led by Dr Singh; other members of the research team are Prof Rajnish Joshi, Prof Debasis Biswas, Dr Saurabh Saigal and Dr Sagar Khadanga. Similar initiation has also taken place in PGI Chandigarh. Molecular and genetic analysis was carried out by AIIMS Delhi’s Professor Gursaran Pran Talwar, said Dr Singh. In his honour Mw was renamed as mycobacterium indicus pranii, or simply as MIP. The word indicus denotes India, while pranii comes from the middle name of Talwar and NII stands for the Institute, he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/clinical-trial-of-anti-leprosy-drug-for-covid-19-at-aiims/articleshow/75189263.cms||Jamal Ayub
April 17, 2020||Goa||Quepem civic body staffers not paid dues since January||QUEPEM: The Quepem Municipal Council (QMC) is yet to disburse three months worth of salaries and wages, since January 2020, to nearly 70 staffers, including daily wage labourers. The municipal body has said it is facing a financial crisis owing to paucity of funds. QMC has 21 fixed staff, 36 labourers for door-to-door garbage collection, eight contract labourers and six drivers. Stating that the workers from the garbage collection team are worst hit, a labourer who has been working with QMC for more than 15 years told TOI that without the wages, they are finding it difficult to sustain themselves and feed their families. Quepem deputy collector Rohit Kadam, who holds additional charge as QMC chief officer, has cited shortage of funds for non-payment. “We are working with the government to settle their wages as early as possible,” he said. Meanwhile, the QMC’s requests to the director of municipal administration, first in December 2019 and then again in January this year, for a grant of Rs 60 lakh as re-imbursement for garbage collection workers have fallen on deaf ears with the urban development department turning down both requests, a QMC official said. Claiming that their plight is worse than that of migrant labourers, one daily wager said, “We are risking our health and undertaking door-to-door collection of garbage and segregation to keep the town clean during this lockdown period. Without our wages, we are the worst hit.” Soon after GST came into force in 2017, the government cut the octroi grant to municipalities across the state. Earlier QMC would receive nearly Rs 80 to 90 lakh per annum from the government. Then, like other municipalities, it was asked to operate using its own income. With funding sources being restricted to house tax, garbage and trade tax, grade B and grade C municipalities are unable to pay their workers, a QMC officer said. Meanwhile, Kadam has ordered the civic body’s staff to resume duties from Thursday. While the office staff have been told to alternate duties, with at least 30% staff present each day, drivers and labourers have been told to compulsorily continue their daily duties.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/quepem-civic-body-staffers-not-paid-dues-since-jan/articleshow/75190092.cms||Johnny M
April 17, 2020||Delhi||Wind brings dust, air quality dips in Delhi||NEW DELHI: Despite the lockdown, air quality in the national capital has been deteriorating fast over the last 48 hours. Delhi’s overall air quality index (AQI) was recorded at 180 (moderate) on Thursday, according to Central Pollution Control Board (CPCB)’s daily bulletin at 4 pm. At least nine stations were recorded in the “poor” category at this time. Experts say the spike in air pollution is largely due to the dry, windy conditions occurring across Delhi and the National Capital Region, leading to both local dust getting lifted up as well as long-range dust transportation from the western parts of India. In comparison last week, Delhi’s AQI was in the satisfactory range with readings below 100 on the index. Delhi had recorded a reading of 94 (satisfactory) on April 12, 86 (satisfactory) on April 9, 83 (satisfactory) on April 8 and a reading of 90 (satisfactory) on April 7. The city even recorded a “good” air day on March 28, when the AQI fell to just 45. CPCB’s index classifies air quality as good below 50, as satisfactory between 51 and 100, as moderate between 101 and 200 and as poor between 201 and 300. ITO was among the nine stations which recorded “poor” air quality on Thursday, recording an AQI of 270 (poor) at 4pm. Alipur (243), Rohini and Bawana (240) and Jahangirpuri (220) were among other such stations. Delhi’s hourly PM concentration, meanwhile, touched 304 micrograms per cubic metre at 10 am—three times the prescribed CPCB values of 100 micrograms per cubic metre. Improvement, however, started occurring by the evening, with levels dropping close to the prescribed standards. Tanushree Ganguly, Programme Associate at the Council on Energy, Environment and Water (CEEW), said that dust-laden high-speed winds often lead to a spike of PM 10 levels in the summer, with similar spikes seen in 2018 and 2019— though much later in the summer. “While Delhi is still reporting moderately polluted air quality levels, air quality in cities like Meerut and Bulandshahr has turned very poor. As lockdown conditions get relaxed post April 20 for industries operating outside municipal limits, it will be interesting to observe how air quality in cities close to these industries gets impacted,” said Ganguly. System of Air Quality and Weather Forecasting And Research (SAFAR) had earlier forecast a sharp rise in PM 10 concentration, stating long range dust transport would occur from April 15 onwards. According to them, AQI could marginally improve by Friday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/wind-brings-dust-air-quality-dips/articleshow/75190097.cms||Jasjeev Gandhiok
April 17, 2020||Hyderabad||Hyderabad: Covid-19 prison ward at Gandhi hospital||HYDERABAD: Authorities at Gandhi Hospital, along with the city police, set up a Covid-19 isolation ward for prisoners on Thursday. The 23-year-old man arrested by Chilakalguda police for assaulting a doctor was the first inmate to be admitted at the ward. “We have turned the ward into Covid-only and other inmates have shifted to Osmania General Hospital. Prisoners with symptoms and their primary contacts will be kept in this isolation ward,” said Dr P Shravan Kumar, Gandhi Hospital superintendent. Two brothers who were arrested by the Afzulgunj police for assaulting doctors at OGH have also been shifted to the ward. They are primary contacts of their father, who had tested positive. “We are deploying a team of five armed guards at the Covid-19 prisoner ward. The guards will be provided with Personal Protection Equipment (PPE),” North Zone DCP Kalmeshwar Shingenavar said. Gandhi Hospital is currently guarded round the clock by 240 cops, who are working in three shifts. Hospital sources said that 440 positive patients are undergoing treatment in four floors of the G+8 building. “Covid-19 patients are not causing any problems. Those who are suspects and kept in isolation wards become restless sometimes and try to argue with the medical staff about letting them go home. We explain to them that mandatory quarantine period of 14 days has to be followed and convince them to not cause any trouble,” said a police official posted at Gandhi Hospital.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/covid-19-prison-ward-at-gandhi/articleshow/75189602.cms||Mahesh Buddi
April 17, 2020||Nagpur||Subsidies for fossil fuel increases while for renewables it falls: Report||Nagpur: While the subsidies for oil and gas increased by 65% in the country between 2017 and 2019, the renewable energy subsidies fell by 35%. Last year, the fossil fuel subsidies in the country were seven times bigger than those for clean energy. This was revealed in the latest scientific study ‘Mapping India’s Energy Subsidies 2020’, jointly released by the International Institute for Sustainable Development (IISD) and the Council on Energy, Environment and Water (CEEW). The report highlights how the government’s support for fossil fuels has increased and declined for renewables in the last two years. However, since 2014, the general trend is still an overall shift from fossil fuels and towards clean energy, the report adds. According to it, subsidies for coal remain largely unchanged, from Rs15,660 crore in 2014 to Rs15,456 crore in 2019. On the other hand, clean energy subsidies saw a trend reversal — after rising almost five-fold from 2014, they fell 35%, from a high of Rs15,313 crore 2017 to Rs9,930 crore in 2019. The report states that this was largely due to the affect of increased competitiveness of grid-scale solar and wind on subsidy policies. It further points out that oil and gas have once again become the largest recipient of subsidies. “They had fallen almost 75% — from Rs1,58,482 crore in 2014 to 40,762 crore in 2017 — largely driven by low world oil prices and subsidy reforms for petrol, diesel, LPG and kerosene. Their rise again — to Rs67,679 crore in 2019 — is largely due to higher world oil prices and growing use of subsidized LPG,” the report states. The study emphasizes that the health and economic crisis caused by Covid-19 will influence subsidy expenditure. “Rising oil prices and initiatives to promote clean cooking were the main drivers of growing support to fossil fuels since 2017. After the Covid-19 crisis, petroleum product subsidies will undoubtedly fall significantly in 2020 and other energy markets will be shaken. Fossil fuels are already being taxed more to help plug holes in revenue. Stimulus for the energy sector must avoid new fossil fuel subsidies that lock in air pollution and greenhouse gas emissions for years to come,” said study co-author Vibhuti Garg of IISD. The study also observes that non-compliance with environmental norms has been a major area of concern for coal subsidies in recent years. “Currently, the only quantified subsidy in this area is non-compliance with coal washing regulations. While there are ongoing concerns about the delay of new norms on sulphur dioxide (SO2), nitrogen oxide (NOx), Particulate Matter and mercury, the delay of norms has not been considered a subsidy because the official timeline for compliance has itself been extended, rather than not enforced,” it states. The authors of the report note that there were already signs that support for renewable energy would increase again, but with the shocks from Covid-19 it is now critical to stay on track. “Policy decisions such as the solar safeguard duty and tariff caps on auctions meant that there was a slowdown in new capacity addition and as a result lower state subsidy outgo as well,” adds Karthik Ganesan, CEEW. “Before the current crisis, a number of new, large clean energy subsidies were announced, like KUSUM, Phase 2 of Rooftop Solar, and FAME-II. Resources post-Covid-19 will see an unprecedented crunch. It presents a good opportunity for the government to rein in specific fossil lfuel subsidies while creating more fiscal room for promoting renewables and other welfare schemes,” added Ganesan. According to the report, in the last six years, India has shifted significant public resources toward clean energy. Since 2014, fossil fuel subsidies have fallen by more than half, while subsidies for renewable energy and electric vehicles have increased more than three and a half times. The report flags that coal subsidies are one opportunity for reform. Another focus for reform highlighted by the study is the large share of subsidies going to electricity transmission and distribution.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/subsidies-for-fossil-fuel-increases-while-for-renewables-it-falls-report/articleshow/75189506.cms||Manka Behl
April 17, 2020||Pune||Pune sizzles at 40.1 degree Celsisus, temperature may soar further||PUNE: The city’s day temperature soared to a little over 40 degree Celsius on Thursday, making it the hottest day of this summer. The mercury soared to 40.1 degree Celsisus in Shivajinagar and 40.2 degree Celsius in Lohegaon on Thursday. The IMD cautioned that the maximum temperature might touch the 41 degree Celsius-mark in the city in the next few days. The real-feel temperature went up to around 42-43 degree Celsius in the city on Thursday because of high humidity levels, said a source in the India Meteorological Department (IMD). The humidity in Shivajinagar at 5.30pm was 43%, while it was 29% in Lohegaon. On Wednesday, the humidity in Shivajinagar was 37% and in Lohegaon it was 13%. The increase in humidity off-late has triggered the uncomfortable feeling that comes in the wake of heat and perspiration. Both days and nights are feeling warmer than they are because the rise in humidity has pushed up the “heat index”. Heat index is the measure of how hot it really feels when the relative humidity is factored in with the actual air temperature. This is also referred to as the “real-feel” temperature. Whenever the temperature during April crosses 40 degree Celsius in Pune, it is considered as one of the highest day temperatures of the month. During the past decade, the highest day temperatures of April hovered between 40 degree Celsius and 41 degree Celsius, as per the decadal weather data the IMD shared with TOI. Anupam Kashyapi, head of weather, IMD, Pune, said, “Pune witnessed its hottest day so far this summer on Thursday because all the locations in the city monitored for temperature by the IMD recorded 40 degree Celsius-plus as their day temperatures. Even though some locations in Pune on Thursday received traces of rain in the afternoon, the day temperature had already soared to its highest level before that, triggering local instability and formation of cloud cells that resulted in very light rain with thundery activity.” A system (wind discontinuity) has been persisting near south-central parts of Maharashtra. It is causing moisture incursion to parts of the state. “But this moisture is still not enough for causing a good rain spell,” he said. The IMD has forecast very light to light rain in Maharashtra during the next couple of days and April 19-20. The rain may be associated with thunderstorm activity and lightning. Very light to light rain chances have also not been ruled out for Pune district. There are chances of hail in central Madhya Maharashtra as well as Pune district on April 19-20, while Marathwada and Vidarbha could see hail in isolated places on April 20. Kashyapi said this brief and very light rain spell might temporarily curb the rising mercury. There are chances that the day temperature might climb up to 41 degree Celsius in Pune in the next five to seven days.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/pune-sizzles-at-40-1c-temp-may-soar-further/articleshow/75190087.cms||Neha Madaan
April 17, 2020||Chennai||Tamil Nadu suggests Ayush remedies, yoga to take on coronavirus||CHENNAI: The Tamil Nadu government on Thursday launched Aarokyam, a special programme that suggests Ayush interventions for Covid-19. It has recommended a 60ml to 90ml dose of kabasura kudineer/nilavembu kudineer for adults once a day for a month to boost their immunity against Covid-19 among other measures. This follows recommendations from an expert group consisting of Dr MGR Medical University vice-chancellor Sudha Seshayyan and Ayush experts. "The Ayush interventions are immunity boosters to fight Covid-19 following the guidelines of Ayush ministry," said Indian Medicine and Homeopathy director S Ganesh. To keep the immune system ready for infectious diseases, the committee has suggested measures under each discipline. For instance, 10 grams of kooshbanda rasayanam/agasthaya rasayanam have been recommended twice a day after food. The naturopathy system suggests 50ml of natural immunity-boosting hot drinks made from crushed ginger, tulsi, black pepper, adhimadhuram and turmeric twice a day for adults and a 20ml dose for children twice daily. Yoga therapy such as vajrasanas, bhastrika pranayama, bhramari pranayama, quick relaxation and deep relaxation techniques, kriyas can be tried for prevention and management of the infection.Bryonia Alba, Rhus Toxicodendron, Belladonna Gelsemium Eupatorium have been suggested in homeopathy. G Sivaraman, member of the National Institute of Siddha scientific advisory committee, said the need of the hour was to strengthen immunity. "We need functional food, better lifestyle, nutraceuticals and traditional herbal medicine. Since coronavirus is new to us, it is going to be difficult, but we can fight it by boosting immunity," said Sivaraman, also a member of the TN government’s task force for Covid-19. Those testing positive can have dasamoola katuthrayam, indhu kantham and viyagriyadhi herbal drink after treatment. An order issued by health secretary Beela Rajesh said Siddha treatment was a supplementary and therapeutic intervention along with allopathic treatment for mild Covid-19 asymptomatic patients. "The holistic approach of Ayush systems of medicine focuses on prevention through lifestyle modification, diet management, prophylactic interventions for improving the immunity and simple remedies based on presentation of symptoms," she said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/tn-suggests-ayush-remedies-yoga-to-take-on-coronavirus/articleshow/75335007.cms||Julie Mariappan
April 17, 2020||Delhi||Chart out a plan on relaxations: Arvind Kejriwal to chief secretary||NEW DELHI: A day after Union home ministry issued the revised guidelines on national lockdown suggesting some relaxations post April 20, Delhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal on Thursday asked the chief secretary to come up with a report at the earliest on its implementation in the capital. Sources said the CM held several rounds of meetings with the top state bureaucrats and asked them to study the revised guidelines and suggest how they could be implemented in Delhi. The Centre issued a fresh set of guidelines for the second phase of lockdown on April 15, which included a list of relaxations after April 20 in I-T, construction, agricultural, financial, social, education and industrial sectors, besides offering a breather to plumbers, electricians and other self-employed personnel. While the central government has prepared the national guidelines, it has left it to the states to prepare a standard operating procedure to operationalise the exemptions without any dilution. “The revised guidelines are quite comprehensive and clear. In fact, many services have already been exempted to facilitate provision of essential services. Since we also have to ensure the national directives on Covid-19 are strictly enforced, a careful study is required on how many activities can still be allowed,” said a Delhi government official. He added that a detailed standard operating procedure would be worked out and a system to facilitate the movement of people and vehicles devised to ensure only those who fall in the working sectors mentioned in the revised list were allowed movement.  While allowing the relaxations, officials said, it would be ensured that no activity was allowed in the containment and buffer zones. Delhi government may allow resumption of large scale construction projects, such as Delhi Metro Phase-IV and flyovers, harvesting of crop and IT-enabled services to some extent.  The final call on exemptions will be taken by April 19-20, said a Delhi government official.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/chart-out-a-plan-on-relaxations-cm-to-chief-secy/articleshow/75190111.cms||---
April 17, 2020||Agra||4 frontline workers of Agra Medical College test positive for Covid-19||Agra: 80 health workers including 30 resident doctors of Agra’s Government Medical College have been quarantined after four frontline staffers tested positive for Covid-19. The head of the gynaecology department was also among those isolated. It comes a day after it was found that two patients, who were admitted in general wards, had died and later tested positive for the contagious disease.Sources inside the hospital said that these measures were not enough as hundreds of other health workers and patients may have come in contact with the four staffers. “There are chances that scores of health workers and patients have contracted the disease from the four infected workers,” a staff said on condition of anonymity.It all started on April 7 when two resident doctors were tested positive for novel coronavirus.After seeing spike in the number of infected health workers at the government medical college, chief medical officer (CMO) Mukesh Vats shot off a letter to the principal of hospital directing him to take all precautionary measures while admitting patients in the general wards.A senior doctor, on condition of anonymity, told TOI, “For the last 15 days, we had been pestering the authorities to follow proper strategy to protect frontline workers and doctors. But no one was prepared to listen to us.”“In the absence of adequate supply of personal protection kits in general wards, N-95 masks and gloves, particularly in the general wards, most health workers are exposed to the deadly virus,” he added. A source said that ward boys usually sit together, no matter where they are deputed. “If this is not stopped, the entire hospital staff may need to be quarantined one day,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/agra/4-frontline-workers-of-agra-medical-college-test-positive-for-covid-19/articleshow/75188190.cms||Anuja Jaiswal
April 17, 2020||Varanasi||Strict curbs in hotspot buffer zones||Varanasi: In a fresh directive after the extension of lockdown till May 3, the state government has asked the district administration to mark the area in one kilometre radius around the hotspots as ‘buffer zone’ and impose stringent restrictions there also. The buffer zones are being marked and the curbs will be put into place by Friday morning, said officials. Shops of grocery and other essential commodities, banking and other facilities will be closed in the buffer zones also like in hotspots and relief material will be sent in two shifts of one hour each. District magistrate Kaushal Raj Sharma told TOI on Thursday, “As per previous directive of state government, the areas where Covid-19 cases had been detected were declared hotspots and restrictions were enforced till April 15. In fresh guidelines, the state government has directed that all restrictions will continue in hotspots and ordered demarcation of one km area surrounding hotspots and enforce same restrictions there by declaring them as buffer zones.” The process of demarcating buffer zone around the three hotspots Madanpura, Bajardiha and Lohta was started on Wednesday and restrictions will be enforced there from Friday morning. This exercise is not needed in Gangapur since the entire township had been declared hotspot and there is no populated area in surrounding, he added. Two Tabhligi Jamaat attendees were found in Madanpura, one Umrah pilgrim in Bajardiha, one youth in Lohta who had returned from Moradabad had tested positive after which these areas were declared hotspots on April 5. Till April 11, as many as 1,200 people were screened in 118 homes of Madanpura, 1,100 people in 81 homes of Bajardiha and 800 people in 42 houses of Lohta, the DM said. In Gangapur town, over 10,000 people had been screened till April 12. Massive sanitisation was also carried out in the hotspots, he added. As per WHO guidelines, three km area surrounding hotspots has to be declared buffer zone, but in view of high population density, people had been screened in one km radius while samples of people in further two km area will be collected randomly, Sharma said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/varanasi/strict-curbs-in-hotspot-buffer-zones/articleshow/75187507.cms||---
April 17, 2020||Pune||Magarpatta firm defers salary indefinitely||Pune: Over 50 employees of Magarpatta-based Systems Plus are in dire straits after the company put some employees on a “notice of (un)employment” and some on an indefinite furlough (leave of absence, without pay). In emails dated March 20 and April 1 (both accessed by TOI), the company informed its employees about the difficulties faced by it during the current situation. In the first email, addressed to about 13 employees, the company said one client had decided to discontinue the offshore captive and asked it to disband the team effective immediately given the current global pandemic. In the second email, addressed to over 36 employees, the company said the employees would be placed on furlough in the foreseeable future. The employees have approached the labour commissioner, who has asked the company for further details. “Each company goes through mismatch on its working capital and so did we. We have been waiting for payment from a few of our clients. On top of it, one of the key clients has terminated contract with us without any notice,” Sapan Choksi, the company CEO, told TOI.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/magarpatta-firm-defers-salary-indefinitely/articleshow/75190068.cms||Satyanarayan Iyer
April 17, 2020||Varanasi||BHU lab told to test samples of symptomatic first||Varanasi: Worried over the increasing wait for the reports of Covid-19 samples reaching the Viral Research and Diagnostic Laboratory (VRDL) of microbiology department of Banaras Hindu University from the districts of east UP region, the administration has decided to give priority to samples of symptomatic people. Due to rising number of samples being forwarded to the BHU lab, the lab officials have been asked to test the samples of symptomatic oersons first and then the samples collected randomly in other districts. When TOI tried to take stock of the reports of the samples of Covid-19 suspected cases of Varanasi on Thursday, district magistrate Kaushal Raj Sharma said, “Till April 14 we had received reports of in 425 samples while report of over 600 samples sent to BHU lab is awaited. Increasing load of samples from all other districts random collection of samples are is being conducted has led to pendency in the test reports.” On being contacted, in-charge of BHU lab Prof Gopal Nath admitted, “Samples collected randomly in all district connected to this lab had increased the load massively. Our lab has the capacity of testing 300 samples per day. But, samples from 16 districts are coming in a great number. We had cleared 311 samples on Wednesday while 300 reports will be given by Thursday night. Despite working more than the capacity of the lab, around 600 samples are still left for the test.” Nath said that new instructions have been issued to reduce the flow of random sampling and it is expected that already deposited samples will be tetsed in a day or two. The DM said that the lab officials have been requested to give the samples of symptomatic people priority over the random samples . This lab had been started to test the samples of 16 districts of east UP region with a single Covid-19 test machine on March 6 but by the end of March its capacity was enhanced with installation of two more machines. By the end of April first week it had started testing up to 200 samples in 24 hours. The laboratory had started facing shortage of all these kits by April 5. On April 6 an Air India’s chartered flight landed with Covid-19 test, RNA extraction, personal protective equipment (PPE) and other kits at LBS International Airport here and to supply these articles at BHU lab.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/varanasi/bhu-lab-told-to-test-samples-of-symptomatic-first/articleshow/75187549.cms||---
April 17, 2020||Goa||Goa: Over Rs 3 crore PF payout under special Covid-19 provision||PANAJI: The Employees’ Provident Fund Organization (EPFO) has settled nearly 3,000 claims, disbursing Rs 9.69 crore to EPF members who filed claims online, said regional provident fund commissioner Ashwini Kumar Gupta. The disbursed funds include Rs 3.65 crore that EPF members applied for under the newly introduced Covid-19 provision. Gupta said that the regional office in Goa was doing its best to settle claims during the lockdown period and highlighted that the department was working with minimum staff due to the corona virus pandemic. In view of the lockdown curbs, EPFO-Goa has granted a 30-day grace period and extended the due date for filing electronic challan cum return (ECR) for the period from March to May 15 for employers who have paid wages to their employees. The employers disbursing the wages for March not only get relief of extension of the due date for payment of EPF dues but also avoid liability of interest and penalty, if they deposit the funds by May 15, said Gupta. This move, he said, was to incentivize employers to pay workers their wages and salaries during the lockdown. “Pension for March was disbursed on March 30 to 19,467 EPS pensioners in the Goa,” said Gupta.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/over-rs-3cr-pf-payout-under-special-covid-19-provision/articleshow/75190124.cms||---
April 17, 2020||Delhi||32,000 speeding challans in Delhi with just 1 per cent vehicles on roads||NEW DELHI: Speed thrills, but it also invites challans. Delhiites have learnt this the hard way by speeding on roads that are currently empty due to the lockdown. In the past 21 days, since the restrictions were put in place, Delhi Police has issued 32,778 challans. And this high figure is despite just 1% of the total vehicle volume being on the roads. On several occasions, drivers were found violating the speed limit multiple times on the same stretch. About 90% of the violators were found to be private car drivers. To give a perspective of the high numbers, on average around 38,000 challans are issued daily for speeding when around 10 lakh vehicles are out on the roads. Police said now it has become a tendency for people to speed even while going to the market. The violations mainly occur on longer stretches like Ring Road and Outer Ring Road. The period between 3pm and 10pm is particularly worse as this is the time when more people step out to buy essentials. Police said drivers tend to speed if they don’t spot an enforcement officer on the road. “We would like to inform such speedsters that the violations are being captured by cameras and processed through an automated system. Notices under the new MV Act will be issued to them within a fortnight of the violation,” said a senior officer. People have been advised not to visit any traffic police office and pay the challan online. Though the number of accidents have fallen drastically due to the dip in the vehicle volume, the few accidents reported during the lockdown period were all hit and run incidents caused due to speeding. Ten road deaths were recorded in 21 days compared with 44 in the fortnight before the lockdown. “We appeal to drivers to stay at home and step out only when required urgently. It is advisable to buy essentials from within their locality,” said a police officer.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/32k-speeding-challans-with-just-1-vehicles-on-roads/articleshow/75190118.cms||Somreet Bhattacharya
April 17, 2020||Agra||‘Banished’ AMU’s ex-student held||Agra: Aligarh police late on Wednesday night arrested former AMU student, Mohammad Aamir Mintoee, who was declared a “goonda” and banished from the district for six months in January for his alleged involvement in crimes in the district. Confirming this, Abhishek, SP,city, said, Minotoee, who was banished from Aligarh for a period of six months, was spotted by police on Wednesday night near Jawaharlal Nehru Medical College trauma centre. In support of Mintoee, AMU students coordination committee on Thursday launched a campaign, demanding the release of the AMU scholar unconditionally. The committee has released a poster saying, “Stop witch hunting of Muslim activists”.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/agra/banished-amus-ex-student-held/articleshow/75188203.cms||---
April 17, 2020||Kochi||Kochi corporation told to handle waste from quarantine homes||KOCHI: The onus on scientific disposal of all kinds of waste from quarantine homes in the city have fallen on Kochi corporation with the pollution control board mandating that it be treated as biomedical waste and disposed as per rules. Earlier, the board had said biomedical waste (BMW) from quarantine homes and camps had to be collected in specially designated yellow colour bags provided by urban local bodies (ULB). As per the revised guidelines, these wastes should be collected and transported separately by ULBs and disposed through incineration. The vehicles collecting these quarantined wastes should also be thoroughly disinfected and cleaned daily. In case incineration facilities are not available, as a last resort, these wastes may be buried in a deep pit in the ground, so that they cannot contaminate any other surface, the guidelines said. “Whatever can be done practically we are doing,” said mayor Soumini Jain. It would be difficult for us to procure yellow bags in short notice as shops are closed, she said. “Wherever there are Covid positive patients, we are taking all mandatory precautions,” said Jain. As per guidelines issued in March, people taking care of those under home quarantine should deposit yellow bags containing medical waste to authorized waste collectors at doorsteps or deposit them at designated deposition centres established by local bodies. BMWs can also be handed over to waste collector engaged by Common Biomedical Waste Treatment Facility at the doorstep. Health workers and people under quarantine said they have not been issued any guidelines regarding collection of waste. “We are absolutely in the dark about yellow bags or designated collection centres. We don’t even know in which houses people are under quarantine,” said a waste collector who works in Elamakkara area. Mohanshwin, Ernakulam district convener of Malinya Nirmarjana Thozhilali union, said the corporation has not given them any directives regarding collection of biomedical waste.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/corp-told-to-handle-waste-from-quarantine-homes/articleshow/75187109.cms||Binu Karunakaran
April 17, 2020||Varanasi||Delhi’s Markaz attendee tests positive in Uttar Pradesh||GORAKHPUR: A 71- year-old man who returned home after attending religious congregation at Delhi’s Markaz was tested positive on Thursday in Santkabeer Nagar district’s Chauri village. DM Raveesh Kumar said, “The man had returned from Delhi Markaz on March 24 and was kept in isolation on complaint at the district hospital. His first sample taken on Monday tested negative. His second swab sample taken on Tuesday and sent for testing at BRD medical college on Wednesday, has confirmed positive Covid-19.” The village has been sealed by putting up barricadings. Santisation drive is also being concucted by spraying sodium hypochlorite. The DM appealed people to inform the adminstration if they have come in contact with the man so that spread of infection could be checked by placing them under under quarantine.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/varanasi/markaz-attendee-tests-ve/articleshow/75187585.cms||---
April 17, 2020||Salem||Tamil Nadu: ‘Pandemic is not over yet, but we’re in right direction’||CHENNAI: Nearly one in every seven patients who tested positive for Covid-19 in the state is now discharged. The list of people in quarantine has been cut to just 30% as the lockdown’s second phase begins. "The pandemic isn’t over yet," said director of public health Dr K Kolandaswamy. "But we know we are in the right direction. We are screening and testing more people, yet we are seeing fewer number of positive patients. This is the first good news we are seeing." If the decline continues, epidemiologists say, the state will be able to effectively delay and pull down the peak after May 3. "TN must continue to test more outside clusters to ensure there is no community spread. A good planned exit from lockdown should be based on test results as evidence," said Dr Manoj V Murhekar, director of National Institute of Epidemiology which is presently conducting epidemiological studies for TN. The Kerala model of contract tracing and monitoring should be replicated in TN with powerful health resources, he said. The peak in TN began after March 31, when it reported 50 cases. Since then it has crossed the three figure mark on April 1, 3 and 12 and was in the 90s at least twice. "This means we will see a bulk of patients leaving hospitals in the next 2-3 days," said Dr S Ragunandhan of Rajiv Gandhi Government General Hospital. The average admission period is 14-20 days and all are in hospital isolation for at least 14 days. To be discharged after the 14th day, a patient should test negative at least twice in 24 hours. "Some didn’t have negative results for nearly 20 days although they showed no symptoms," said dean Dr R Jayanthi. Information from the Covid-19 control room shows 80% of patients in government hospitals have no/very mild symptoms and 20% severe cough or breathlessness. Health minister C Vijayabaskar and officials say less than 10 patients in all hospitals are on ventilator support. The fatality rate so far is close to 1% despite high incidence of co-morbidities such diabetes and hypertension among patients. Infectious diseases expert Dr V Ramasubramanian says it is important to keep a close eye on patients in wards. "We still have about 1,000 patients in hospitals." Nearly 30% of patients are above 50, most have at least one co-morbidity. "The average age of people who died is 56. We had at least three people less than 50, six in their 50s, three in their 60s, two in their 70s. One was 96." All those discharged have been asked to remain on quarantine for two more weeks to ensure they rest and eat healthy and continue to come to hospitals for periodic review," said Kilpauk Medical College Hospital dean Dr Vasanthamani P. "We are encouraging a large pool of healthy patients who have recovered to stay fit so they can donate their plasma to help some other patients."||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/salem/pandemic-is-not-over-yet-but-were-in-right-direction/articleshow/75194813.cms||Pushpa Narayan
April 17, 2020||Chennai||Tamil Nadu: ‘Pandemic is not over yet, but we’re in right direction’||CHENNAI: Nearly one in every seven patients who tested positive for Covid-19 in the state is now discharged. The list of people in quarantine has been cut to just 30% as the lockdown’s second phase begins. "The pandemic isn’t over yet," said director of public health Dr K Kolandaswamy. "But we know we are in the right direction. We are screening and testing more people, yet we are seeing fewer number of positive patients. This is the first good news we are seeing." If the decline continues, epidemiologists say, the state will be able to effectively delay and pull down the peak after May 3. "TN must continue to test more outside clusters to ensure there is no community spread. A good planned exit from lockdown should be based on test results as evidence," said Dr Manoj V Murhekar, director of National Institute of Epidemiology which is presently conducting epidemiological studies for TN. The Kerala model of contract tracing and monitoring should be replicated in TN with powerful health resources, he said. The peak in TN began after March 31, when it reported 50 cases. Since then it has crossed the three figure mark on April 1, 3 and 12 and was in the 90s at least twice. "This means we will see a bulk of patients leaving hospitals in the next 2-3 days," said Dr S Ragunandhan of Rajiv Gandhi Government General Hospital. The average admission period is 14-20 days and all are in hospital isolation for at least 14 days. To be discharged after the 14th day, a patient should test negative at least twice in 24 hours. "Some didn’t have negative results for nearly 20 days although they showed no symptoms," said dean Dr R Jayanthi. Information from the Covid-19 control room shows 80% of patients in government hospitals have no/very mild symptoms and 20% severe cough or breathlessness. Health minister C Vijayabaskar and officials say less than 10 patients in all hospitals are on ventilator support. The fatality rate so far is close to 1% despite high incidence of co-morbidities such diabetes and hypertension among patients. Infectious diseases expert Dr V Ramasubramanian says it is important to keep a close eye on patients in wards. "We still have about 1,000 patients in hospitals." Nearly 30% of patients are above 50, most have at least one co-morbidity. "The average age of people who died is 56. We had at least three people less than 50, six in their 50s, three in their 60s, two in their 70s. One was 96." All those discharged have been asked to remain on quarantine for two more weeks to ensure they rest and eat healthy and continue to come to hospitals for periodic review," said Kilpauk Medical College Hospital dean Dr Vasanthamani P. "We are encouraging a large pool of healthy patients who have recovered to stay fit so they can donate their plasma to help some other patients."||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/pandemic-is-not-over-yet-but-were-in-right-direction/articleshow/75190148.cms||Pushpa Narayan
April 17, 2020||Agra||UP: Covid-19 causes fifth death in Agra, district tally rises to 172||AGRA: A 65-year-old kidney patient, who was tested positive for Covid-19 on April 10, died at Sarojini Naidu Medical College (SNMC) on Thursday. This was the fifth case of Covid-19 death in Agra. Also, 23 new positive cases were reported, taking the district's tally to 172. Saleem Ahmad, a resident of Nai Basti Dhuliya Ganj, contracted the infection probably from people who had attended the Jamaat event in Delhi, according to district administration. Chief medical officer Mukesh Kumar Vats said, “The man was suffering from chronic kidney ailment and systemic hypertension for the past four years. He was a contact of Tablighi Jamaat members. He tested Covid-19 positive on April 10. On the same day, he was admitted to the isolation ward of SNMC. A team of physicians and nephrologist attended to him. He received two hemodialysis on April 10 and 14. On Thursday, his condition suddenly deteriorated. Doctors tried their best, but could not save him. He had renal failure and died of heart attack." On Tuesday, a 57-year-old man suffering from breathing problems died at SNMC. A lab report later found him to be a Covid-19 positive case. Earlier, three women who were admitted to SNMC and a private hospital on National Highway 2 with multiple medical conditions, too, were tested with the virus after their deaths. Ten out of the total 23 Covid-19 positive cases confirmed by the district administration on Thursday belong to Fatehpur Sikri block. All these people are contacts of a local tour guide who tested positive earlier in the week. Four are health staffers, including three ward boys of SN Medical College. Three cases are linked to a private hospital. Another two cases are linked to a private clinic and two cases are related to Tablighi Jamaat event. “All the 23 people tested Covid-19 positive have been shifted to an isolation facility. A team of doctors is attending to them. People are being screened in the area around their houses and the places they had visited. Their contacts are being identified. We will conduct a health check of all these people," the Agra CMO added. Notably, out of the 172 coronavirus cases in Agra, at least 73 are linked to people who had attended the Jamaat event in Delhi and their contacts. At least 11 patients have overseas travel history. Remaining are all contacts of the people tested positive earlier. District magistrate Prabhu N Singh said, “So far, 172 Covid-19 cases have been found in Agra. Out of these, 144 are active cases. All the people who had come in contact with any Covid-19 patients are being identified and screened. The area around their houses are being sanitised. We are doing massive sampling to identify all the infected people and send them to institutional quarantine." On Thursday, Firozabad reported two more Covid-19 cases, increasing the tally to 26. Chief medical officer of Firozabad district Dr SK Dixit said, “The duo had come in contact with Tablighi Jamaat members. They have been shifted to an isolation facility. In the district, a majority of Covid-19 cases are liked to the Jamaat.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/agra/covid-19-causes-fifth-death-in-agra-district-tally-rises-to-172/articleshow/75188223.cms||Deepak Lavania
April 17, 2020||Delhi||1,500 migrant workers shifted from Yamuna bank to shelters||NEW DELHI: The state government on Thursday shifted more than 1,500 migrant labourers and homeless people, who had been camping on the banks of Yamuna, and provided them with food and shelter. Following reports about migrant labourers being stranded without food, water or aid along the Yamuna near Nigambodh Ghat, Delhi government started shifting them to different shelters across the capital from Wednesday. “While around 1,100 had been moved by Wednesday, on Thursday a total of 1,531 people were shifted, including those who were living under the Yamuna Bridge. Authorities will now ensure the health check-up of these people. Tests for TB, HIV and inject drug users, apart from people with Covid-19 symptoms, will also be conducted,” Sunil Kumar Aledia, who has been working for the homeless for over two decades, told TOI. According to Aledia, a number of people, however, managed to run away to nearby areas like Rajghat, Majnu ka Tila, Daryaganj and Asaf Ali Road. “They are scared of police. There is a need for better outreach by the authorities,” he said. Stressing on the need to create awareness amongst people who are devoid of information regarding government amenities, CM Arvind Kejriwal on Thursday said: “A total of nine lakh people had lunch in Delhi government hunger relief centers. We have the capacity to arrange food for around 15 lakh people. A total of 71 lakh ration card holders have been provided ration and non-ration card holders are also being provided ration. I request the media and the people to create awareness among those who do not have access to information.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/1500-migrant-workers-shifted-from-yamuna-bank-to-shelters/articleshow/75190141.cms||Ritam Halder
April 17, 2020||Varanasi||BHU staff protest against lack of training, PPE||Varanasi: A group of nursing and paramedical staff gathered to protest at the medical superintendent (MS) office of SSL Hospital of Banaras Hindu University on Thursday alleging that they were being forced to collect samples of COVID-19 suspected cases without proper training or personal protection equipment. The agitated staff alleged that despite the ICMR guidelines that only resident doctors of ear, nose and throat (ENT) department will collect the samples of COVID-19 suspected cases, even they were being asked to do the same. They also alleged that they were not yet given PPE kits or other safety equipment. The BHU spokesman Rajesh Singh said that taking note of the grievances of the nursing and paramedical staff, MS held a talk with them. During this talk, MS clarified that the staff were showing the initial guidelines of the ICMR, which had been withdrawn and later a revised guideline was issued by the council as per which all the professional paramedical staff have been authorised for sample collection. Soon after the clarification, the staff agreed to return to their work. Meanwhile, Singh said that the university is already ensuring availability of PPE and other safety equipment for the resident doctors as well as paramedical staff who are dealing with confirmed and suspected cases of coronavirus.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/varanasi/bhu-staff-protest-against-lack-of-training-ppe/articleshow/75187528.cms||---
April 17, 2020||Trichy||Civic body buys three atomiser sprayers for disinfection drive||Trichy: The Trichy Corporation has procured three Bhelmister machines, designed by Bharat Heavy Electricals Limited (Bhel) Ranipet, to disinfect various parts of the city as part of its Covid-19 preventive measures. The three atomiser spray systems were procured at a cost of Rs 3.50 lakh each.“One Bhelmister, placed over a truck, will be permanently halted at Mahatma Gandhi Memorial Government Hospital (MGMGH) where there is a Covid-19 isolation ward. Other two sprayers will be used in containment zones,” a senior corporation official said.On Thursday, a test-run was conducted on the GH premises. Vegetable markets, banks and government offices will be covered by the sprayers, which are powered by a portable diesel generator. The high-power sprayers can atomise and spray the disinfectant solution in the exteriors of buildings up to a distance of 25 feet. Corporation uses sodium hypochlorite as disinfectant. “Minimum quantity of disinfectant but maximum coverage is the individuality of the machine. As people gain confidence through our disinfection drive, we will gradually cover all parts of the city,” the official added. Corporation has also mobilised 210 sprayers of various types including battery-powered hand sprayer and power sprayer mounted on mini-trucks.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/civic-body-buys-three-atomiser-sprayers-for-disinfection-drive/articleshow/75190150.cms||Deepak Karthik
April 17, 2020||Trichy||Temporary veggie markets to remain closed on weekend||Trichy: All temporary vegetable markets in the city will remain closed on Saturday and Sunday in a bid to restrict public movement on roads. The district administration has also ordered meat and fish stalls to stay closed on Sunday and warned that shops flouting the rule would be sealed. The move was encouraged by reduced public movement following the closure of eight temporary vegetable markets in the city last week. In other parts of the district, all temporary retail vegetable markets will be closed only on Sunday. The wholesale vegetable market functioning near the Chennai-Trichy national highway near Palpannai will remain closed on Friday and Saturday. Residents in need of vegetables have been told to purchase them from grocery shops near their houses within 2km. Residents were told not to use cars for purchasing vegetables and added that people can use two-wheelers but riding with a pillion is banned. Meanwhile, the Ariyalur district administration has ordered 43 nationalised and private bank branches functioning in the containment zones of Ariyalur, Thirumanur and Sendurai towns to stay closed until further order. The local bodies having jurisdiction over Covid-19 hotspots were told to disinfect the ATM rooms near the bank branches twice a day.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/temporary-veggie-markets-to-remain-closed-on-weekend/articleshow/75190144.cms||---
April 17, 2020||Goa||Hospitality sector may struggle for 2 more years: Hoteliers||PANAJI: Goa’s tourism sector will collapse if the state government does not step in and prepare a roadmap to help it compete with other tourist destinations when the borders open up, say stakeholders. While the Small and Medium Hotel Owners’ Association expects the tourism season to be bleak till December, chairman and managing director of the Alcon Victor Group Victor Albuquerque expects the hospitality sector to struggle for a year or two. Tourism’s contribution to Goa’s economy is significant with the sector directly contributing to around 10%. Indirectly, the sector’s contribution is much more, say stakeholders. The government, they said, needs to start all business activity as quickly as possible not only to revive the economy, but also tore-engage the workers rendered jobless. “The hospitality sector will probably not be able to revive for at least one or two years as tourists will hesitate to holiday until the stigma of Covid-19 is forgotten,” said Albuquerque in an open letter to CM Pramod Sawant. Industry insiders point out that there was a 50% drop in international arrivals in 2019-20 with a sharp drop expected in the coming season. “A lot depends on how Europe gets out of the coronavirus. If West Europe recovers from the virus and the economy recovers then tourists will come. Air connectivity between Europe and the UK to Goa also needs to improve,” said president of Travel and Tourism Association of Goa (TTAG) Savio Messias. The current situation is an opportunity for the state to get its act together and “initiate spring cleaning”, say tourism stakeholders. “The chief minister and the tourism minister have never shown interest in creating a long-term vision for the sector. When we highlighted the illegalities, the government ignored us,” said president of Small and Medium Hotel Owners' Association Serafin Cota. Messias said that Goa must follow the Kerala model and let the industry guide the state’s tourism policies. “Goa Tourism’s marketing budgets are very big but not in the right direction. There is no proper monitoring of the marketing and it is not result-oriented,” he said. Agreeing with him, Albuquerque said that the lockdown period should be used to revamp infrastructure, cut down on drug trade and prostitution, and improve the ease of doing business by bringing in a single-window clearance mechanism. “The government should initiate a complete spring cleaning of the state so as to present a fresh look to the tourists and entrepreneurs that Goa is a new and attractive destination to do business,” said Albuquerque.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/hospitality-sector-may-struggle-for-2-more-yrs-hoteliers/articleshow/75190519.cms||Newton Sequeira
April 17, 2020||Kochi||Drone trouble brews for arrack lovers in Ernakulam||KOCHI: From a Canada returnee who set up an arrack ‘brewing plant’ at his home in Aluva to youths that relied on Youtube tutorials to brew liquor at Cheranalloor, police in Ernakulam have had their hands full these days as illicit liquor brewing cases are on the rise. It has been three weeks since the watering holes in the state went dry, and many are trying to take advantage of the situation, putting the police — who are already overburdened with lockdown enforcement — on high alert. Over 30 persons have already been arrested in connection with the brewing of illicit liquor in the district during the lockdown period and police have now started deploying drones, especially in areas bordering the forests, to crackdown on illicit liquor brewing. According to sources with Ernakulam rural police, police have started using drones that were already airborne to watch out for lockdown violators, to detect illicit brewing as well. “Drones are airborne in all three sub-divisions, that is Muvattupuzha, Perumbavoor and Aluva. Drones are particularly being used to crackdown on illicit brewing in areas like Kalady, Kuttampuzha, Malayattoor, Manjapra, Ayyampuzha, Chully et al. Drones are being used to collect intelligence against such rackets in hilly areas and forest regions,” said an officer. Officers said drones would be able to provide information on illicit brewing in open yards and deserted compounds. Police have seized over 300 litres of wash and several litres of brewed arrack, from different parts of the district during the lockdown. Police said that in many instances, those who were arrested for illicit brewing were earlier arrested for other offences. Ernakulam Rural SP K Karthick has warned that police would invoke the Kerala Anti-Social Activities (Prevention) Act (KAAPA) against anyone who would be arrested further on for illegal brewing. Meanwhile, apart from regular offenders, police have arrested persons who tried their ‘luck’brewing due to the unavailability of liquor. Such offenders, who commit the crime in the privacy of their homes, were arrested through good old policing involving legwork and intelligence collection. On Sunday, Aluva police arrested a man who returned from Canada and two of his friends for attempting to brew arrack at his home. In another incident, two youths in their late twenties were arrested by Cheranellore police after they tried brewing arrack using a pressure cooker after watching ‘tutorial’ videos on Youtube. Police arrested the duo and seized their ‘equipment’. Police say that one litre of arrack was being sold for rates as high as Rs2000 in the black market.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/drone-trouble-brews-for-arrack-lovers-in-ernakulam/articleshow/75187125.cms||---
April 17, 2020||Puducherry||Tamil Nadu: ‘Pandemic is not over yet, but we’re in right direction’||CHENNAI: Nearly one in every seven patients who tested positive for Covid-19 in the state is now discharged. The list of people in quarantine has been cut to just 30% as the lockdown’s second phase begins. "The pandemic isn’t over yet," said director of public health Dr K Kolandaswamy. "But we know we are in the right direction. We are screening and testing more people, yet we are seeing fewer number of positive patients. This is the first good news we are seeing." If the decline continues, epidemiologists say, the state will be able to effectively delay and pull down the peak after May 3. "TN must continue to test more outside clusters to ensure there is no community spread. A good planned exit from lockdown should be based on test results as evidence," said Dr Manoj V Murhekar, director of National Institute of Epidemiology which is presently conducting epidemiological studies for TN. The Kerala model of contract tracing and monitoring should be replicated in TN with powerful health resources, he said. The peak in TN began after March 31, when it reported 50 cases. Since then it has crossed the three figure mark on April 1, 3 and 12 and was in the 90s at least twice. "This means we will see a bulk of patients leaving hospitals in the next 2-3 days," said Dr S Ragunandhan of Rajiv Gandhi Government General Hospital. The average admission period is 14-20 days and all are in hospital isolation for at least 14 days. To be discharged after the 14th day, a patient should test negative at least twice in 24 hours. "Some didn’t have negative results for nearly 20 days although they showed no symptoms," said dean Dr R Jayanthi. Information from the Covid-19 control room shows 80% of patients in government hospitals have no/very mild symptoms and 20% severe cough or breathlessness. Health minister C Vijayabaskar and officials say less than 10 patients in all hospitals are on ventilator support. The fatality rate so far is close to 1% despite high incidence of co-morbidities such diabetes and hypertension among patients. Infectious diseases expert Dr V Ramasubramanian says it is important to keep a close eye on patients in wards. "We still have about 1,000 patients in hospitals." Nearly 30% of patients are above 50, most have at least one co-morbidity. "The average age of people who died is 56. We had at least three people less than 50, six in their 50s, three in their 60s, two in their 70s. One was 96." All those discharged have been asked to remain on quarantine for two more weeks to ensure they rest and eat healthy and continue to come to hospitals for periodic review," said Kilpauk Medical College Hospital dean Dr Vasanthamani P. "We are encouraging a large pool of healthy patients who have recovered to stay fit so they can donate their plasma to help some other patients."||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/puducherry/pandemic-is-not-over-yet-but-were-in-right-direction/articleshow/75197469.cms||Pushpa Narayan
April 17, 2020||Nagpur||Amid crisis due to pandemic, NMC hikes water tariff by 5%||Nagpur: Taking serious cognisance of the crisis due to the pandemic, the central and state governments had announced various types of relief for the people. At the same time, Nagpur Municipal Corporation (NMC) has increased water tariff by 5% for the 10th consecutive year. Municipal commissioner Tukaram Mundhe reportedly approved the hike a couple of days ago. The revised water tariff will be applicable from April 1 onwards. For residential consumers, tariff will increase to Rs8.13 per unit for consumption between 1-20 units. The tariff will increase to a great extent if one utilizes water over 20 units. Rate will be Rs13.03 per unit for 21-30 units, Rs17.93 per unit for 31-80 units and Rs24.43 per unit for above 80 units. Similarly, the tariff of remaining six categories of consumers also increased, including slums, commercial and institutional. The civic chiefs have increased the water tariff every year since 2011-12 as general body had given permission for hike of 5% before commencement of new fiscal. It is being done as NMC had fixed the rate of private operator Orange City Water Private Limited (OCW) higher than water tariff at the time of its appointment in 2010-11. The water tariff was Rs5 per unit whereas OCW rate was finalized at Rs7.90 per unit. Also, NMC is bound to increase rate of OCW as per revision in wholesale price index and consumer price index, which are revised by the central government every year. Till now, the minimum water tariff for residential category was Rs7.75 per unit while OCW is being paid Rs12.01 per unit. NMC is incurring huge financial loss by paying higher rate to OCW and also not sending water bills against over 45% water distributed. NMC’s recovery is also very poor. Due to the pandemic, many people are facing various types of problems. Two days ago, energy minister Nitin Raut had extended due date of power bills of March and April. Raut is even exploring possibility of waiver to some select categories. Chairman of NMC standing committee and water works consultative committee Vijay Zalke said, “I think the administration should have avoided revision in water tariff in prevailing situation. Increase in water tariff by 5% every year is need of the hour but could have been avoided this time. I had also suggested some sort of relief to people in water bills. I stopped water disconnection drive against defaulters as such steps are not right in the prevailing situation,” he said. NMC officials said, “The hike is as per the resolution passed by the general body.” Condemning the move, Congress corporator Sanjay Mahakalkar said, “NMC should give waiver in paying property tax and water bills. Many from middle class and lower middle class are not earning currently. They will not be able to pay regular bills and hike in water tariff is like rubbing salt on their wounds.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/amid-crisis-due-to-pandemic-nmc-hikes-water-tariff-by-5/articleshow/75189389.cms||Anjaya Anparthi
April 17, 2020||Ahmedabad||Guj HC junks amendment in VAT Act||Ahmedabad: The Gujarat high court (HC) on Thursday struck down the state government’s amendment in the Value Added Tax (VAT) Act, which was brought in after the law was replaced by the Goods and Service Tax (GST) laws.Upon petitions filed by various industries, including the Reliance Industries Ltd, the HC has junked section 84A of the VAT Act saying that it is “liable to be struck down even on the ground of being manifestly arbitrary, excessive, oppressive and unreasonable.”The issue pertains to reduction in percent of the Input Tax Credit (ITC). The industries assessed in 2008-09 were fighting a legal battle over the government’s decision to reduce the ITC. After the case was decided by the Supreme Court in 2017, the state government introduced section 84A and enabled itself to issue a notice for revision for revising the assessment made for 2008-09. The commercial tax department issued fresh notices to industrial houses for revising the assessment, which the HC had ordered in 2013, for reducing the ITC to the extent of 8% under the provisions of Section 11(3)(b)(ii) and 11(3)(b)(iii) of the VAT Act in the light of the SC judgement in 2017.The industries challenged the amendment. It was submitted that the original period of limitation under Section 75 of the VAT Act for issuing notice is of three years from the date of the assessment order- 2013 which lapsed in 2016. But with the amendment, the state government provided itself with unlimited period, which is not fair.After hearing the case, a bench of Justice J B Pardiwala and Justice A C Rao said, “We are of the view that if unlimited time period is available to the Revenue for assessment/reassessment/revision in any case based on a decision rendered in the case of any other dealer, the same would lead to an irreparable situation and, in such circumstances, it renders Section 84A manifestly arbitrary and unreasonable.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/guj-hc-junks-amendment-in-vat-act/articleshow/75189303.cms||---
April 17, 2020||Goa||Popular disinfectant solutions fly off pharmacy shelves||Panaji: With the massive demand for disinfectant solutions like Dettol and Savlon in pharmacies across the state capital, chemists say that people are stocking up in bulk as a safety measure to sanitize their surroundings in the wake of the corona virus pandemic. “Distributors don’t have enough stock of disinfectant solutions and are unable to supply to pharmacies,” a member of the All Goa chemist association said. Some people have purchased entire cartons of the solutions, worried about cleanliness and hygiene in the wake of the pandemic, leading to a surge in sales, he added. In Panaji, Farmacia Universal said that they ran out of stocks towards the end of last month when the lock down was just implemented. Hindu pharmacy located in the heart of the city has also run out of popular brands of disinfectant solutions two weeks ago. “We have another lesser-known brand of disinfectant solution which can be used as an alternative, but people are insisting they want only the brands that have now run out,” said chief pharmacist at the Hindu pharmacy, Raj Vaidya. Wellness Forever, which operates three pharmacies across Panaji has seen sales of its batch of 60ml Dettol bottles going through the roof. “There has been fast sale of disinfectant solutions, hand sanitizers, liquid hand-washes and face masks ever since cases of the corona virus pandemic started getting reported across the country. There are people that purchase five disinfectant solutions at a time while others pick up to 20 bottles. We ran out of all the big bottles of disinfectant solution,” a staffer said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/popular-disinfectant-solutions-fly-off-pharmacy-shelves/articleshow/75190149.cms||Nida Sayed
April 17, 2020||Trichy||Civic body buys three atomiser sprayers for disinfection drive||Trichy: The Trichy Corporation has procured three Bhelmister machines, designed by Bharat Heavy Electricals Limited (Bhel) Ranipet, to disinfect various parts of the city as part of its Covid-19 preventive measures. The three atomiser spray systems were procured at a cost of Rs 3.50 lakh each.“One Bhelmister, placed over a truck, will be permanently halted at Mahatma Gandhi Memorial Government Hospital (MGMGH) where there is a Covid-19 isolation ward. Other two sprayers will be used in containment zones,” a senior corporation official said.On Thursday, a test-run was conducted on the GH premises. Vegetable markets, banks and government offices will be covered by the sprayers, which are powered by a portable diesel generator. The high-power sprayers can atomise and spray the disinfectant solution in the exteriors of buildings up to a distance of 25 feet. Corporation uses sodium hypochlorite as disinfectant. “Minimum quantity of disinfectant but maximum coverage is the individuality of the machine. As people gain confidence through our disinfection drive, we will gradually cover all parts of the city,” the official added. Corporation has also mobilised 210 sprayers of various types including battery-powered hand sprayer and power sprayer mounted on mini-trucks.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/civic-body-buys-three-atomiser-sprayers-for-disinfection-drive/articleshow/75190152.cms||Deepak Karthik
April 17, 2020||Delhi||A force of 22 fights odds to keep central Delhi afloat||NEW DELHI: It’s been a week since Bengali Market and neighbouring areas have been sealed. Outsiders are not allowed entry into the containment zones and the residents cannot step out of their homes. Amid these circumstances, a group of 22 civil defence volunteers is working day and night to make life easier for people. They are not just informing the residents about government orders, social distancing, available healthcare facilities and relevance of hygiene, but also working as delivery boys for transporting groceries, medicines, milk and vegetable from 6am till 10pm. With or without vehicles, they procure essential items from the local shops and deliver them at the doorsteps of the residents. “Our duty starts at 6am when the Mother Dairy outlet opens. The shopkeepers, whose numbers are already distributed inside the colonies, hand over the essential items to us and we carry them till the residential houses. It may sound simple, but it is not an easy task. There are days when we don’t even get time to have lunch. We also fear of getting infected and try to maintain maximum distance while delivering the items,” said Vikas Badhana, head of civil volunteer team in the Bengali Market area. Besides residential areas, volunteers are engaged at home shelters, quarantine centres, ration distribution shops and food distribution points in schools. “Most of these volunteers are local residents and well-familiar with the areas,” said a senior staff member. “When responsibilities are high, volunteers have to do multiple jobs,” said Vijay Sharma, division warden, Sarojini Nagar. He is looking after two home shelters, four ration shops and four hunger relief centres in the area. “After carrying awareness drive in peak hours, we move to food distribution points and from there we go to homeless shelters for maintaining law and order,” Sharma added. People at home shelters, especially Netaji Nagar, are mostly migrant labourers or beggars shifted from Hanuman Mandir and other public places. “They frequently make attempts to run away, call police abruptly, use abusive language, fight among each other, damage public properties and make undue demands. They don’t even maintain hygiene,” said Sharma. But it’s the dedication to serve the society that keeps these civil volunteers going. “I joined this out of passion. Even when we are not paid, we do the work with the same zeal. I have two kids and as soon as the officials called me for volunteering, I left both of them at my mother-in-law’s house. I work for six hours at a hunger relief centre and spend rest of the day in spreading awareness,” said Mamta Sharma who is a volunteer at a hunger relief centre in Nagal Raya.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/a-force-of-22-fights-odds-to-keep-central-delhi-afloat/articleshow/75190154.cms||Vibha Sharma
April 17, 2020||Kochi||Kerala: This UAV can read temperature of crowd, spray disinfectant||KOCHI: A startup incubated at Maker Village here has readied an unmanned aerial vehicle that can take law enforcement and surveillance during an epidemic to the next level with AI assistance. Garud, the indigenously developed UAV can carry payloads up to 60kg and has been fitted with thermal scanners that can read the temperature of people in a crowd, spray disinfectants, collect medical samples and carry out emergency deliveries over long distances with minimal human touchpoints. “The UAV has been designed to carry load up to 60kg, we are working on a design that can carry 120kg. It has an endurance of three hours and can travel up to 50km and come back,” said Vishnu V Nath, CEO and founder of AI Aerial Dynamics. The UAV uses AI algorithm to process the thermal data which can be superimposed with visual feed to support law and enforcement and medical teams to track infected individuals. “The thermal camera using Edge AI can focus on specific areas on the body to measure the temperature," said Vishnu. It can determine the direction of flow, extract owner information from number plates, detect firearms or violent behaviour and compliance with social distancing norms by persons in a crowd. “What makes the UAV unique is the ability to customize the payload. It also facilitates communication between the flight computer and payload control module,” said Vishnu. AI Aerial Dynamics currently provides technical support to Kerala police in retrofitting commercial drones used for surveillance with sirens, megaphones, and sprayers for disinfection.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/this-uav-can-read-temp-of-crowd-spray-disinfectant/articleshow/75188287.cms||Binu Karunakaran
April 17, 2020||Trichy||For families in Renga Nagar hamlet, it’s battle for survival||Trichy: Sitting at home for the last three weeks, Caroline, 45, a domestic help from Renga Nagar in KK Nagar, has exhausted all her savings and is now looking for help to feed her children. Walk through the narrow roads of Renga Nagar third street and one can find closely built individual houses with gates on either side. But not many may know that at the end of this upper middle-class locality lies a small hamlet of 65 families living in thatched or tile-roofed houses. It is from this locality that the houses of Renga Nagar get domestic help, city hotels get house-keeping staff and construction sites get labourers. Extension of the lockdown has left these people jobless. No official or politician has come to listen to their plight so far, they say. House-keeping staffer at a hotel in the city, 45-year-old S Perumal has been asked not to come until further communication. “It has been almost a month without work and we could manage only this long without money," says Perumal who has elderly parents at home. People known to him are not ready to lend him money as everyone wants to save for the future as lockdown appears to be uncertain, says he. C Caroline, 40, head of another family, says she received Rs 1,000 as financial aid for 'rice' ration card holders from the state government. "But that was only enough to refill the LPG cylinder. We can manage with judicious use of food grains received under PDS. But we are struggling to meet daily vegetable needs and milk requirement for our children," she said. Father of two, Vijay Kumar, 35, a photographer, says he was asked to leave on March 22 with an advance of Rs 4,000 from the studio where he was employed near central bus stand. The owners are not picking up his phone calls and his future appears gloomy. But what really worries him is meeting the essential needs of his family members, especially children as he is the only earning member.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/for-families-in-renga-nagar-hamlet-its-battle-for-survival/articleshow/75190156.cms||Sampath Kumar
April 17, 2020||Chennai||Operational issues bother factories before reopening||CHENNAI: Reopening closed factories in the state is fraught with risk as managements fear any untoward incident of a worker turning Covid positive will force shut the operations and lock up the entire workforce in quarantine. Besides, issues concerning supply chain have to be fixed and a health audit of the workforce has to be done before resuming production. “While screening will be done before the employees enter, there are other risks. What if a worker contracts Covid elsewhere? The entire unit will be shut down and it is too expensive and if it is a continuous process industry like tyre making or glass making,” said the HR head of an auto factory. Other issues include, realigning shop floors. For example in a factory that makes phone units, the gap between two workers as per the line design is just a foot or two feet. This has to be increased to conform to physical distancing norms, which means the lines have to be reconfigured. “It is a practical problem and a very tough one to deal with,” a phone maker said. While BMW said it will not be in a hurry to restart operations on April 20, Daimler India Commercial Vehicles also said its operations will begin on May 3. Many others including Ford, Royal Enfield, Renault Nissan and TVS have said that they will wait for government’s operational guidelines. Said P Harihar, president – operations, Ashok Leyland: “We are prepared. Our plant has been maintained at all times, even during lockdown, by our essential services staff. However, the supply chain will be a challenge as borders are closed and goods movement has just commenced, so whatever is in the pipeline, we will be able to receive.” “The government’s instruction is for small factories on the outskirts of cities to start production but these factories serve the bigger plants and unless those open they will neither have orders nor money to run their operations,” CITU president A Soundararajan said. For techies, Nasscom is learnt to have communicated the industry’s view of committing to a phased process to migrate from work from home to work from office till end of June.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/operational-issues-bother-factories-before-reopening/articleshow/75190158.cms||---
April 17, 2020||Madurai||Senior citizens living alone hit hard by lockdown curbs||Madurai: The lockdown has left several senior citizens, who live alone and do not have vehicles, feeling helpless as many of them are unable to get essential supplies and finding it difficult to move out for their health care and banking needs.Elderly persons are often seen on roads requesting lift from bikers. P Shankaran, 65, a resident of Iravathanallur, said he often suffers health problems due to aging and finds it difficult to go to government Rajaji hospital, which is 6 km away. “I used to prefer share autorickshaws spending Rs 40 for a visit to the hospital. In the absence of public transport, I do not have any other option but to seek for hitch-hiking,” he said.He said that not many are coming forward to help him, when he seeks help on road. He said that he has to ask at least 10 people before someone stops to give him a lift.A Palani, an elderly person from Vandiyur, said that although he does not require mobility frequently, he has to travel when he wants to withdraw money from banks or ATMs. “My only son is working in Coimbatore and there is no one to help me and my wife. I don’t have a scooter. I have a bicycle, which I could not ride due to aging,” he said. Palani too takes hitch-hiking, whenever he wants to go to market or withdraw old age pension from banks.A biker from Sellur said that he used to give lift to school children or elderly people, but he is skeptical off late due to the pandemic. “There are two problems. Since Covid-19 can easily attack elderly, I am scared to provide lift to them. There is also a risk of getting caught by police for moving in the city with a pillion,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/senior-citizens-living-alone-hit-hard-by-lockdown-curbs/articleshow/75189307.cms||---
April 17, 2020||Delhi||They came to AIIMS as last hope. Now, they just want to go home||NEW DELHI: Three-year-old Anshuman has barely eaten in the last few weeks. He spends his days clinging on to his grandmother who tries to keep him cool in the scorching Delhi heat. His cries of pain are barely audible, drowned out because he has no energy left. The toddler is staying at a makeshift shelter camp barely hundred metres away from AIIMS where he was being treated for blood cancer until a month ago. “We have been told that no treatment will take place until the lockdown is lifted. All we want is a bus that can take us back home. He won’t be able to cope with this heat and pain together,” said his father Gauri Shankar, a resident of Bihar, who came to Delhi on March 15 to give his son a fighting chance to survive. The doctors earlier ran a few tests and prescribed some medicine. Another test was scheduled, but it could not take place due to the lockdown. There are 37 people, including 15 patients with serious ailments, living under a tent made of white tarpaulin. There are no fans in the tent, and the thin sheets are no protection against the weather. As diagnoses, treatments and tests come to a grinding halt because of novel coronavirus, the patients and their families have resigned to their fates. But they have one request: Send us back home. “I haven’t seen my father for the last one month. When I came here, I thought I would get better and go back home healthy. But now, I don’t even know when I’ll see my family again,” said 11-year-old Diksha Agarwal who came to Delhi from Agra with her mother and uncle on March 10. The lithe girl is fond of sports, but could barely walk a few metres without panting. A few months ago, she got a sharp pain in her left arm, and fainted. Her family consulted a doctor, who diagnosed her with atrial septal defect. “In Agra, they told us that it looks like she has a hole in her heart, and suggested that we go for more tests. So, we came here. But everything shut down before they could reach a conclusion,” said his uncle Ravi, while showing Diksha’s reports to TOI. He added that the family has completely run out of money. A guard who manages the makeshift camp told TOI that shelter homes outside AIIMS are full to their capacity, as people did not get the chance to go back to their native towns because of the lockdown. "A few tents, funded by the government and managed by NGOs, also exist in the hospital’s vicinity, but they can’t accommodate as many people because of social distancing norms,” he added. Many patients, who come to Delhi on a regular basis for affordable treatment of cancer and heart complications, have been hit the hardest. Sonu Kumar, 27, is one of them. The resident of Bihar underwent a heart valve repair surgery a few years ago. But complications in the surgery led to his left hand being paralysed and he started experiencing seizures. He now has to consult a doctor at AIIMS every few months, and he comes here with his mother and two children. “My wife left because of my ill health. There is no one to take care of my children. So, I bring them here with me whenever I come for my treatment. We have no money left and have no proper shelter to stay. We only want the government to send us back home,” said Kumar. People outside Lok Nayak Hospital, which has been converted into a Covid-19 facility, have a different story. Patients, who were being treated here, have nowhere else to go. An old man, waiting outside the hospital, told TOI that he came to the hospital for his regular treatment of mouth cancer. But the OPD and emergency were shut. “I don't know where to go now,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/they-came-to-aiims-as-last-hope-now-they-just-want-to-go-home/articleshow/75190183.cms||---
April 17, 2020||Vadodara||Vadodara: Cop who caught paan masala thief infected||VADODARA: A police head constable posted with the Dabhoi police station did his duty of nabbing the robbers who looted a provision store, but what did he get in return; coronavirus infection. Head contable Rajendrasinh Zala tested positive for the Covid-19 on Thursday, a day after he nabbed Ayub Tai and his aide Kuldeep Sharma, for breaking into a provision store and stealing paan masala worth Rs 4,625. Tai had tested positive for coronavirus, while his aide Sharma’s results were negative. With Zala testing positive, the total number of cases in Dabhoi rose to two within 24 hours. Zala had come in contact of Tai after he was nabbed on April 14 along with Sharma for robbing paan masala. Both Tai and Sharma were sent to SSG Hospital for tests and medical check-up. While Tai’s results came positive on Wednesday, Zala’s infection was confirmed on Thursday. Police said that both, Tai and Zala, have been isolated. Meanwhile, four other cops of Dabhoi police station involved in nabbing Tai and Sharma and who had tested negative, have been home quarantined. Tai’s sister and brother have also been quarantined. Health officials had collected samples of 12 people who had come in contact with Tai. But except Zala, all others tested negative. “An assistant sub-inspector and a police constable had taken the two accused to SSG Hospital have been home quarantined besides two other police constables, who had come in contact with the accused,” said deputy superintendent of police K V Solanki. Dabhoi police station was also sanitized on Wednesday after Tai’s report had arrived.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/head-constable-who-nabbed-paan-masala-thief-infected/articleshow/75188278.cms||---
April 17, 2020||Hubballi||Poor hygiene, sanitation breed diseases in Haveri||Haveri: Adequate sanitation and personal hygiene are indispensable to fight the coronavirus, and a lack of these can seriously impact the people in Haveri district. While the district administration is creating awareness about hygiene in light of the Covid-19 pandemic, the Haveri City Municipal Council (CMC) is not doing enough to maintain cleanliness in public places. Garbage is being dumped on most of the roads here, and drains are overflowing. The stray pig and mosquito menace has gotten worse. The CMC is yet to clear the open drain in front of the Purasiddeshwar Temple, which has been in this state for a year. This big drain has been emitting a foul odour. Moreover, devotees who visit Hukkerimath, also need to close their nostrils, while they are entering this holy place, due to the stench. “I have requested many times to clear the drain in front of the Purasiddeshwar Temple, but CMC officers are not doing the same. Though I am an elected CMC member, I don’t have any hope that they will clean up the drain,” said Mallanna Satenahalli, who represents this ward in the Haveri CMC. He said the spread of vector-borne and water-borne diseases are mainly due to poor sanitation in residential areas, and that most of the viral fever cases are reported in urban slums and surrounding areas. “CMC authorities should clear drains across the city, for maintaining sanitation and hygiene,” he demanded. M S Korishettar, JD (U) leader and president of Haveri Nagarika Vedike, expressed his displeasure over the issue, and said that the Haveri CMC is yet to get an administrative body, so only officials have the power to decide on sanitation and other issues. “The CMC commissioner has neglected this serious issue, even though we have brought it to his notice frequently,” he alleged. CMC commissioner Basavaraj Jiddi said that the CMC is putting in efforts to maintain sanitation and hygiene in the city. “However, the drain in front of Purasiddeshwar Temple was constructed by the PWD, and it is too deep, and we need equipment to clear it,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hubballi/poor-hygiene-sanitation-breed-diseases-in-haveri/articleshow/75188296.cms||---
April 17, 2020||Madurai||Assn appeals to clear 2.51L MT imported peas lying at ports||Madurai: Tamilnadu Foodgrains Merchants Association Limited has appealed to Union minister for commerce and industry Piyush Goyal to give clearance to shift about 2,51,800 metric tonne (MT) imported green and yellow peas that are lying stagnated in four Indian ports from November 2019 due to legal complications. “Around 1.5 lakh MT is at the Mudra port, 90,000 MT at the Mumbai port, 10,000 MT at the Chennai port and 1,800 MT at the Tuticorin port,” president of the association, S P Jeyapragasam said. The consignments were imported from Australia and Russia without permission from the government, due to which the director general of foreign trade (DGFT) had denied clearance. “The consignments are lying in the respective ports with cases filed in the high courts in Chennai and Rajasthan and the Supreme Court,” he said and sought intervention of the minister to withdraw the cases.The association noted that peas is consumed in large quantities in Tamil Nadu and Kerala as part of daily food and as a snack. Based on a representation by the association to chief minister Edappadi K Palaniswami in February, the latter wrote to the ministry of commerce and industry to import peas in India by allowing it through the Tuticorin port.Withdrawing the cases would fulfil the need for at least two months all over India in this pandemic situation, considering the demand and the requirement. The association also pointed out that delay in clearance might even result in the stock turning unfit for human consumption.Meanwhile, the association has written to the chief minister seeking intervention to put an end to the shortage of cumin, mustard, anise and fenugreek in the state. Jeyapragasam said these items are procured from the agricultural produce market committee in Unjha, Gujarat, and the market is closed from March 23 due to the lockdown. The government has been urged to coordinate with the Gujarat government to bring the spices to Tamil Nadu.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/assn-appeals-to-clear-2-51l-mt-imported-peas-lying-at-ports/articleshow/75189317.cms||---
April 17, 2020||Goa||Mobile vansbring solace to fish-loving Goans||Panaji: Mobile vans selling fish have turned out to be saviours of fish-craving citizens in the lockdown as these vehicles have been authorised by the fisheries department to move across villages and towns to sell fresh catch. The vans are stationed at Mapusa, Navelim, Quepem, Sanguem, Ponda and Vasco. The operators purchase fish from the individual jetties close to their jurisdiction or from traditional fishermen, and move around selling the fish. Each of the vans has an average of 500 kgs of fish per day, deputy director of fisheries, Chandrakant Velip said. “While we have allowed mobile vans to function, they have been instructed to strictly follow the guidelines of social distancing, wear masks and gloves and take necessary precautions,” he said. The open sale of fish has been prohibited by the fisheries department in view of the coronavirus precautions, and vendors are only permitted to carry out door-to-door sale of fish. “There are eight vans operating at present. If there is heavy demand for fish in areas close to their jurisdiction, the mobile van can carry out sale over there to cater to the public. The Mapusa mobile van was permitted to sell fish at Altinho in Panaji this way,” Velip said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/mobile-vansbring-solace-to-fish-loving-goans/articleshow/75190159.cms||Nida Sayed
April 17, 2020||Nagpur||Armori man killed in tiger attack||Nagpur: A villager from Armori in Gadchiroli district was killed by a tiger after he ventured into the forest to collect ‘kuda’ flowers on Thursday morning. The victim has been identified as Gyaneshwar Nilkanth Kamble (40), a resident of Azad Chowk, Armori. The forest near Ravi village already has presence of resident tigers. Yet, Kamble took the risk. This is the 12th death in wild animal attack since January this year in Chandrapur, Nagpur and Gadchiroli districts. On April 13, a mahua collector was killed in Pench Tiger Reserve (PTR). From April 8 to 16, four persons have died in tiger attacks.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/armori-man-killed-in-tiger-attack/articleshow/75203079.cms||---
April 17, 2020||Delhi||Ill-designed ACs, poor ventilation may only help coronavirus thrive||New Delhi: Poor ventilation and ill-designed air-conditioning systems can trap stale air and increase the risk of catching diseases inside homes. This and many more living problems in the post-pandemic period have been highlighted by Centre for Science and Environment (CSE) in an analysis titled “Beyond the Four Walls of PMAY: Resource efficiency, thermal comfort and livability in the affordable housing sector”. The analysis points out that even if high outdoor temperature does manage to diminish novel coronavirus, mechanically cooled indoor temperatures and the air ducts of centrally air-conditioned buildings may enable the virus to thrive. “In fact, anticipating the risk, the Covid-19 Task Force and Indian Society of Heating, Refrigerating and Air Conditioning released a booklet recommending maintaining of reasonably high levels of humidity, high rate of air change, and higher air temperature, among other things,” said CSE. At the same time, social distancing is virtually impossible in poorly designed small housing units of low-income groups, the policy brief points out. The analysis mentions: “The migrant crisis has shown how current approaches to housing provisions for the poorer sections need to change. Moreover, the overall hygiene of neighbourhoods in terms of access to water, sanitation and waste management requires most decentralised and efficient municipal services and decentralised resource and waste management systems to control the exposure to risk. Access to clean environment will have to be universal to protect all.” CSE said the Covid-19 challenge has raised concerns about thermally uncomfortable buildings, which increases air conditioning usage and, therefore, the risk of infections. “This has once again brought to the forefront the need to design buildings for thermal comfort and to minimise air-conditioned hours. Out of the total approved projects under PMAY-U, 34% are under affordable housing that the private sector is delivering. But nearly the entire focus is on speed and ease of construction and material choices. It is now necessary to link these subsidies and incentives with performance of the housing stock to ensure quality and liveability,” said CSE. The technical group on urban housing shortage estimates that around 80% of the nation’s housing demand comes from congestion or overcrowding in houses. A house is defined as overcrowded in India when a married couple doesn’t have a separate room.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/ill-designed-acs-poor-ventilation-may-only-help-coronavirus-thrive/articleshow/75212129.cms||Jasjeev Gandhiok
April 17, 2020||Kozhikode||Classification of Wayanad as hotspot district with clusters baffles many||Kozhikode: The classification of Wayanad as a Covid-19 ‘hotspot district with clusters’ by the central government has baffled district authorities as the district has been successful in limiting total Covid-19 cases to just three. It had even figured in the list of 25 districts prepared by the central government on April 13 where no fresh Covid-19 cases were reported during the previous 14 days. All the three positive cases in the district were Gulf returnees, and two of them were discharged after recovery on April 8, leaving the district with just one patient presently. The aggressive containment strategy implemented in the district was a success with not a single person in the district contracting the disease through direct contact with positive cases. “The list of hotspot districts announced by the central government does not reflect the ground level realities in Kerala. The state government will request the central authorities to make modification as per the current fact and figures,” said state transport minister A K Saseendran, minister in-charge for Wayanad district. District authorities too are at a loss to understand how Wayanad was included in the list of hotspot district with clusters. “We don’t know under what criteria the district was Wayanad in the list of hotspot districts with clusters,” district collector Dr Adeela Abdulla said. District health authorities said that the district had just one active case and he is currently asymptomatic and stable. “Also, the locations of the three patients who tested positive were geographically separated by several kilometres and do not actually fall in the category of a cluster,” a health department official said. Officials said that the district did not meet any of the yardsticks specified by the Union ministry of health and family for classification of hotspot-like areas, reporting large number of cases/ high growth rate and other inclusion criteria like ‘highest case load districts contributing to more than 80% of cases in lndia or contributing to 80% of cases in each state or district with doubling rate less than 4 days (calculated every Monday for last 7 days, to be determined by the state government)’. Wayanad MP Rahul Gandhi had on Wednesday tweeted that he was proud that the district has been recognized by the health ministry for its excellent results in tackling Covid-19 and he had congratulated the district administration for their hard work and dedication. The district had adopted a particularly aggressive containment strategy, keeping in mind the acute vulnerabilities of the district including lack of adequate healthcare facilities like not having even a government medical college and having the largest tribal population in the state. Despite being the least populous district in the state, it had kept a total of 13,543 persons under home quarantine, of whom 4,756 persons have completed observation, leaving 8,787 persons still under house quarantine.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kozhikode/classification-of-wayanad-as-hotspot-district-with-clusters-baffles-many/articleshow/75188341.cms||---
April 17, 2020||Delhi||Three blocks of police colony sealed||New Delhi: Three blocks at Model Town police colony have been sealed after a police officer, his wife — who works as a nurse — and one of their sons tested positive for Covid-19. On Wednesday, two constables of Chandni Mahal police station had also tested positive. On Thursday, police sealed the G, H and I blocks in Model Town police colony. “The wife of assistant sub-inspector Shamsher (47) works as a nurse at Lok Nayak hospital. When she developed symptoms, she was admitted to the hospital and on April 11 she tested positive. The couple have two sons, the elder one is positive as well. Her family members were in home quarantine and later even the ASI tested positive. The family lived in H block,” said a senior police officer. The ASI works with the provisions and logistic unit of the Delhi Police. On Thursday, police made regular announcements in the colony asking the residents not to step out of their houses. Earlier on Wednesday, two constables from the Chandni Mahal police station including the operator of the station house officer, tested positive. A senior police officer said that a total of 26 police staff members, who came in touch with them, have been asked to stay in quarantine at their home and consult a doctor in case they show any symptoms.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/three-blocks-of-police-colony-sealed/articleshow/75190167.cms||---
April 17, 2020||Ahmedabad||Jamaati surrenders after return from Bhusaval, booked||Ahmedabad: Gandhinagar police on Thursday booked a 35-year-old resident of Sector 4-A in the capital town, for allegedly spreading infectious disease endangering lives of others after he surrendered to cops and informed that he had attended an event of Tablighi Jamaat held in Bhusaval town of Maharashtra from December 15, 2019 and stayed there till April 14.The man, Nabeel Qadari, 35, came to Sector-7 police station at around 11am on Thursday. He told cops that he had returned to Gandhinagar on April 16. But as he could not give any satisfactory answer as to how he had returned and whether he had sought any permission from the authorities, he was booked under IPC Sections 188 (disobedience to notification duly promulgated by a public servant), 269 (negligent act likely to spread infection of disease dangerous to life) and 270 (malignant act likely to spread infection of disease dangerous to life) along with charges under the Epidemic Diseases Act, states the FIR. Inspector J H Sindhav of Sector-7 police said that Qadari was sent to Civil hospital in Gandhinagar where his reports are pending. “Qadari was booked as he did not get any permission from the authorities to move during the lockdown period from Bhusaval to Gandhinagar. He also did not have himself tested for Covid-19 even though he had stayed in the jamaat,” said Sindhav. When asked how he reached Gandhinagar, Qadari told cops that he had taken lifts from several persons to reach here, said Sindhav. Sindhav said that further legal actions will be decided after his test results come.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/jamaati-surrenders-after-return-from-bhusaval-booked/articleshow/75189326.cms||---
April 17, 2020||Chennai||Chennai: A sanitizer to kill genetic material of coronavirus||CHENNAI: Anna University researchers have developed a novel hand sanitizer they say can eliminate the coronavirus’ genetic material and break the chain of transmission. Existing hand sanitizers only break the outer surface and not genetic material of the virus which can still infect if it enters the human body. To ensure all components including genetic material are destroyed, the university’s National Hub for Healthcare Instrumentation Development (NHHID) has come up with AU-Sanitizer (AUS) that can be directly used on hands, gloves, body parts, surfaces, medical equipment and devices. It can also be added to available sanitizers to eliminate coronavirus from masks, personal protective equipment (PPE), dresses and large surfaces. “We have tested on RNA from yeast and our sanitizer formulation with enzyme degraded it successfully. Since coronavirus shares the same type of nucleic acid, it would breakdown the virus’ genetic material,” said professor K Sankaran, network consultant of NHHID who developed the method. High risk people like doctors, nurses, healthcare workers and relatives of Covid-19 patients. “Entering a cell, the virus injects nucleic acid and multiplies, hijacking the host’s machinery. If we kill the genetic material, we can reduce the transmission by breaking its chain.” It would increase the sanitizer’s price by only Rs 8 to Rs 10 per litre. The team is looking to use it as nasal drop or spray after further clinical trials. “Asymptomatic patients may act as carrier and infect others. If we use it as nasal drop or spray it may kill it genetic material and stop further infections.” The researchers distributed 200 samples among clinicians, families, students and workers. Most found it acceptable with respect to smell and consistency. “It provides an additional layer of safety to healthcare professionals. We have applied for provisional patent for the formulation. The university wants to join with governments and big companies to break the chain of coronavirus,” said S Muttan, coordinator of NHHID.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/a-sanitizer-to-kill-genetic-material-of-coronavirus/articleshow/75190173.cms||A Ragu Raman
April 17, 2020||Goa||Fearful to free: 2 of Goa’s Covid-19 survivors recount their journeys||PANAJI: Twenty five-year-old Roy (name changed) is among Goa’s six cured Covid-19 patients and is presently in facility quarantine. While he will be allowed to return home in a few days, Roy’s excitement of being reunited with his family has almost entirely given over to apprehensions of how people in his village will treat him. On the other hand, 29-year-old Akshay (name changed) who was among the state’s first three patients to be detected with Covid-19 on March 26, is not so keen on going back home. “I will have to sit in because of the lockdown and will get bored. At least I have friends here,” he told TOI over the phone from a quarantine in North Goa. Both the young men, nevertheless, agree on one thing — that they received dedicated medical care from doctors and nurses while battling the virus in hospital. Akshay said he was admitted to the TB hospital in Margao a day after he returned to Goa from Australia. He was later shifted to the ESI hospital which is the state-designated medical facility for Covid-19 cases. “I had received a call from my shipping company informing me that one of my colleagues had tested positive for coronavirus. The company also told me to get tested,” he said. But even after being admitted to the isolation ward, Akshay did not exhibit the typical symptoms of Covid-19. His condition remained normal for most part of his stay. The young man credits Dr Ira Almeida, medical superintendent of Hospicio, Margao, for keeping him under strict observation despite him not showing the telltale signs of Covid-19. “I’m thankful that Dr Almeida did not take me lightly while I was in isolation,” he told TOI. Roy, on the other hand, was shifted directly from Dabolim airport to the Goa Medical College (GMC) and hospital, Bambolim, no sooner had he landed from Barcelona, Spain. He said he felt unwell while on the flight from Barcelona and took medication when he was in transit at Doha, Qatar. “But when I reached Dabolim airport on March 14, I felt feverish again,” he told TOI. He said he was checked at the airport and taken straight to the GMC in an ambulance. Even the friends who travelled with him were not aware of this, he said. Despite his travel history — Spain is among the world’s Covid-19 hotspots — Roy’s mild symptoms of fever and cold did not appear to merit his isolation. He was also not tested. “The doctors probably thought I was feeling unwell due to my tiring journey, and told me to go home,” he said. When he felt ill once more after reaching his residence, Roy decided to shift to his old home in another village assuming that ongoing construction work at his new residence was worsening his condition. “But even after shifting, I continued to have high temperature. Two days later, I visited the GMC and was put in isolation,” he said. Interestingly, although Roy had all the symptoms of Covid-19, his first test for the virus came back negative. It was only during the second test that his Covid-19 status was confirmed. His younger brother, too, contracted the disease despite Roy maintaining social distancing during the two days he was at home. “I never thought something like this could happen and I would expose my dear ones to the deadly infection. I feel very sorry,” he told TOI. His brother has since been cured and was shifted to a quarantine facility on Thursday. Another great relief is that Roy’s mother, who was tested twice, has been declared Covid-19 negative. Now that he is back in good health, Roy said he would follow the doctors’ instructions in toto and would stay indoors for a month after he goes home. “How can I forget that just a few days ago my muscles ached when I tried to take two steps? How can I forget that I struggled to catch a breath?” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/fearful-to-free-2-of-goas-covid-survivors-recount-their-journeys/articleshow/75190521.cms||Bindiya Chari
April 17, 2020||Kochi||Covid-19 outbreak: Call for policy to aid fisheries sector||KOCHI: There is a need for a strong policy to support the fisheries sector including assistance to fisher folks whose livelihood has been seriously affected due to the global outbreak Covid-19. The export and domestic marketing of fish has been severely affected, said a report that was submitted by the Central Institute of Fisheries Technology (CIFT) to the Union government. The report, which looks first-hand at the impact of the 21-day lockdown on the fisheries sector, calls for revival of the domestic fish supply chain while adhering to the mandated health and sanitation norms. Online delivery of fish and its related products should be promoted in the context of livelihood security of fishers and local fish vendors as well as nutritional security of consumers. “Fisheries sector provide livelihood to around 16 million people apart from its contribution to food and nutritional security and foreign exchange earning potential. In 2018-19, Indian marine products exports provided 6.7 billion US dollars. Reduced demand due to spread of the disease in major export destinations like USA, China and EU has started trickling down to the ground level impacting the livelihood of many working in seafood processing and fishing related activities. Though there is an increase in demand for dry fish, drying units are unable to materialise the opportunity fully due to the difficulty in sourcing the raw material,” said C N Ravishankar, director, CIFT. The report recommended that all stakeholders in the fish value chain are to be encouraged to follow the guidelines issued by the government and health workers strictly. The social security protection, including public distribution system, to the affected fishermen, to be enhanced.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/call-for-policy-to-aid-fisheries-sector/articleshow/75187160.cms||---
April 17, 2020||Delhi||HC refuses to urgently hear plea on fee waiver||NEW DELHI: Delhi high court on Thursday refused to grant an urgent hearing to a PIL seeking a waiver of school fees for the Covid-19 lockdown period. The PIL wanted a direction to private schools in the capital to waive off fees for the period they are not fully operational due to coronavirus lockdown and argues that schools must not pressure parents to pay fees. It further asked that Delhi government provide sufficient funds to schools to bear their liabilities such as salary of staff and other expenses. Advocate Amit Sahni’s plea said lakhs of parents are facing financial crunch due to the lockdown and health emergency arising out of Covid-19 and most of the people are working in unorganised sectors like shops, vendors, small manufacturing units or factories and everyone does not have a secured job. “Although the government has directed everyone not to deduct salary of employees but private sector particularly those working in unorganised sector are facing difficulties in paying school fees as many of them are not getting complete salaries and many are getting salaries after deduction,” the petition says. Due to suspension of court functioning during the lockdown, the court is only hearing very urgent matters through videoconferencing and mentioning of urgent matters is taking place before the designated registrars/joint registrars.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/hc-refuses-to-urgently-hear-plea-on-fee-waiver/articleshow/75190182.cms||---
April 17, 2020||Allahabad||Prayagraj police on arrest spree during lockdown||Prayagraj: Lockdown seems to have offered an opportunity to cops to nab the wanted criminals who are either at their homes or have taken shelter at their relatives/ accomplices shelter hubs. A total of 568 wanted criminals, including three notorious cattle smugglers, were arrested by the crime branch sleuths in past fortnight following after the police prepared a list of wanted and criminals. Five special teams of the crime branch have been roped in to find out the location of criminals who operate in the city or escaped to neighbouring districts, have taken shelter in other states and those who were wanted in the cases registered against them at different police station of the district or the states. From crude bomb makers--Sandeep Nishad and Ankur Nishad, residents of Meja--to notorious cattle smugglers Rashul Ahmad and Salman, residents of city west, were arrested by the crime branch after conducting raids at their hideouts. SSP, Prayagraj, Satyarth Anirudh Pankaj said, “The department has prepared a list of the hardened criminals, chain/ mobile snatchers, robbers , cattle smugglers, auto lifters as well as those who were wanted in connection with the FIRs lodged against them at different police stations”. The list of wanted criminals was prepared thana-wise and separate teams have been assigned the task to nab them, he further said. “ While tracking the criminals, the police teams continued to keep an eye on their movements and started operation to nab them’. The crime branch teams have also focused to nab absconders who were wanted in connection with murder cases”, he added. Interestingly, more wanted criminals were arrested in the Trans-Ganga and Yamuna areas. Police also claimed to have busted at least 15 rackets involved in manufacturing of illicit liquor and destroyed over 12 furnaces, huge quantity of raw materials and arrested 38 persons in this connection.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/allahabad/prayagraj-police-on-arrest-spree-during-lockdown/articleshow/75187744.cms||---
April 17, 2020||Madurai||Restaurants fear cold response, not ready to open for takeaways||MADURAI: The state government may have permitted restaurants to function on condition that they should provide only takeaway, but many in the city are apprehensive about opening shop due to scepticism that customers would not turn up due to restrictions enforced by the police. “We will incur loss if we operate since we will get only few customers. Operation cost would be higher compared to the revenue earned. Already we are facing heavy loss and we cannot bear further loss,” said a hotelier from KK Nagar. District president of hoteliers association, K L Kumar said that there are at least three check points from Tamukkam to Mattuthavani, where vehicles are stopped by the police. “This will discourage people from coming to the hotels. Police need to allow people if hotels have to kick-start their businesses,” he said. Apart from local customers, hotels are dependent on people from other districts, who visit Madurai for various purposes. With the movement coming to a standstill, it would make sense to operate business only after normalcy is restored, a hotelier said. Hoteliers say that their business is not going to be usual any more and the industry will undergo various changes. Even if normalcy is restored today, it will take a minimum of two days for restaurants to operate as they have to clean the store room, restock required essentials and bring together their workforce. It will be akin to starting business afresh over again, a hotelier said. Kumar said that at least 30% of the hoteliers would leave the business due to Covid-19 impact. Hotels have employed people from the North East, they are waiting to leave to their respective home towns once the restrictions are lifted, he said. “April and May is the peak season for the hotel industry. Since there will not be any business, hoteliers will suffer a huge blow. At least 30% will be forced to leave the industry,” Kumar said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/restaurants-fear-cold-response-not-ready-to-open-for-takeaways/articleshow/75189322.cms||---
April 17, 2020||Goa||Team of medics, officials prove vital cog in battle against coronavirus||Margao: As Goa is inching closer to achieving the distinction of zero positive Covid cases, for the over 200 frontline health workers at the ESI hospital, the facility designated as Covid hospital, it has been a challenging yet satisfying experience. Working behind-the-scenes is the dedicated team of district administration officials and medical experts who successfully prepared the Goa model of Covid-19 treatment and ensured that it worked to the tee. While confirmatory tests of the one of the two positive patients being treated in the hospital turned negative on Wednesday for Covid-19, medical sources in the hospital said the remaining patient was also on the path of recovery. Ever since the government took over the hospital on March 25, the entire staff has been putting their heart and soul into their task which invariably goes beyond the call of duty. Significantly, several doctors of the ESI hospital which is governed by the labour department, have also been drafted for duty at the Hospicio and the TB hospital in Margao coming under the state directorate of health services (DHS). The medical team is headed by Dr Edwin Gomes. Sources said that the initial challenge for the hospital administration was to isolate its patients already admitted for treatment from the Covid facility. “We have also ensured that none of our regular ESI patients faced any hardships owing to the conversion of the ESI hospital into Covid hospital as routine OPDs were kept functional,” the source said. The district administration, however, did face some teething problems on the logistical front at the hospital. While two hotels in the vicinity were taken over for accommodation of the doctors, however, as the hotel staff weren’t on duty, the authorities faced a torrid time in arranging for meals as well as laundry services for the medical staff. Plans were firmly in place to handle the worst case scenario if positive cases multiplied and put a strain on the existing medical infrastructural facilities, sources in the district administration said. Prasanna Acharya, in-charge of Covid hospital representing the South Goa district administration, informed TOI about an unique initiative taken up by South Goa collector Ajit Roy for efficient planning and management of Covid-19 crisis using information technology. A software module was developed to assist the hospital administration in monitoring the status of Covid-19 patients. “Fortunately, as the cases didn’t shoot up, we didn’t have to use the module as yet. We had plans to make the module accessible to the public as anyone could get real time status of the cases and prevent any panic kind of situation,” Acharya said. “We had planned in advance. We are prepared for the worst case scenario.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/team-of-medics-officials-prove-vital-cog-in-battle-against-coronavirus/articleshow/75190170.cms||Govind Kamat Maad
April 17, 2020||Madurai||Seized vehicles to be returned to owners||Madurai: The city police started the process of returning vehicles that were impounded during lockdown by handing over 201 vehicles to the respective owners on Thursday. The owners will receive the vehicles after submitting an undertaking that they will comply with the legal proceedings, which will begin once normalcy returns. Police had registered 3,639 cases against 3,853 people between March 23 and April 15 for violating curfew restrictions. Around 4,550 vehicles, mostly two-wheelers, were seized during this time period. Each station has seized between 150 and 250 vehicles. Tallakulam, Sellur and Anna Nagar police stations have seized more number of vehicles compared to other stations. All vehicles have been kept at the Armed Reserve ground. The police initiated the process of returning vehicles to the respective owners based on orders from director general of police. The 201 vehicles that were returned on Thursday included seven cars. A police officer said that violators will have to pay the fine levied against them for flouting lockdown norms once the proceedings start after normalcy returns. In order to make sure that people do not gather at the same time to claim their vehicle, a set of instructions that need to be followed at police station has been issued, he said. A police inspector from Thiruparankundram police range said that only 10 to 20 vehicles will be returned in a day and the respective vehicle owners will be informed a day before. The process will take place between 8 am and 12.30 pm and vehicle owners should reach their houses before 1 pm, he said. Owners will be asked to visit the station concerned, where formalities will be completed with original documents such as driving license and RC book. Police will start with vehicles, which were seized in the first week of the lockdown, before handing over vehicles seized subsequently, he said. The process will go on for at least 10 days, police officials said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/seized-vehicles-to-be-returned-to-owners/articleshow/75189328.cms||---
April 17, 2020||Madurai||Jallikattu bull’s funeral: Two cops shunted out, many villagers booked||Madurai: The Palamedu police on Thursday booked several people from Mooduvarpatti village for defying the curfew violations and taking part in large numbers to give a grand funeral to a jallikattu bull. Meanwhile, district superintendent of police N Manivannan has transferred sub-inspector Jayakannan and special branch head constable Maniraj to the armed reserve police unit. While it is said that the two were transferred for keeping higher officials in the dark about the funeral, a police officer said the transfer was for administrative reasons. Police booked seven people – K Malaisamy, 70, R Vadivelu, 35, N Rajkumar, 35, R Prem, 35, P Kannan, 35, K Kamatchi, 49, and V Karikalan, 49, along with a few other unnamed persons. Though the funeral took place on Sunday, the case was registered only on Thursday. The action was taken after the video of the funeral was shared on social media on Wednesday. District collector T G Vinay on Wednesday said that he already has ordered the revenue officials to lodge a police complaint. A large number of villagers, including women gathered to pay final respect to the temple bull, which had brought laurels to the village by winning several jallikattu events over the years. They took out a procession for a few hundred metres and buried the bull. The case was booked under IPC sections 188- disobedience to order duly promulgated by public servant and 269- Negligent Act likely to spread infection of disease dangerous to life.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/jallikattu-bulls-funeral-two-cops-shunted-out-many-villagers-booked/articleshow/75189332.cms||---
April 17, 2020||Ahmedabad||Two more cases against jamaatis: DGP||Ahmedabad: Two more cases against Sura Tabligh Jamaat members were registered in Mehsana and Gandhinagar on Thursday, said Gujarat DGP Shivanand Jha. He added that 13 persons from Gandhinagar and Mehsana had gone to attend a congregation at Bhusaval in Maharashtra before the lockdown. Eight of them returned before lockdown was imposed, while the rest returned during lockdown. Three of them came back on Wednesday while two — one from Mehsana and the other from Gandhinagar returned on Thursday. Cases have been registered against them in Gandhinagar and Mehsana on Thursday. Jha added that curfew has been imposed in five police station areas of Surat from Thursday midnight onwards, three officers of the rank of SP and two of the rank of DSP were allotted to Surat police. “With these, three companies of SRP, two companies of paramilitary forces and one company of RAF have been given to Surat for deployment in areas under curfew,” Jha said. While stressing for co-operation from public, Jha said that anyone flouting social distancing norms during curfew relaxation in the city will be dealt with strictly according to law. Jha also warned that no one should try to fool the police with fake curfew passes. He added that Maninangar police have arrested a person who tried to use a forged curfew pass.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/two-more-cases-against-jamaatis-dgp/articleshow/75189335.cms||---
April 17, 2020||Allahabad||Uttar Pradesh: 17 nabbed, 31 challaned for violating lockdown rules||PRAYAGRAJ: Cops on Thursday continued to tighten the noose around people loitering in streets and arrested 17 persons for violating the lockdown norms. Besides, 31 persons were booked and fined in the city in the past 24 hours for allegedly violating guidelines during the lockdown. SSP Satyarth Anirudh Pankaj said, “Police have been maintaining a strict watch in all nook and corner of the city and for that additional mobile police pickets have been deployed “. Strict vigilance has also been maintained at the inter-district border areas, and seven teams have been deputed so that people could not cross the inter- district limits.. Till now, as many as 1057 people have been challaned under section 151, the SSP added. Police have also arrested 17 persons after lodging 13 FIRs in different parts of the city like Civil Lines, Cantt, Mauaima, Jhunsi, Soraon, Sarayinayat, Dhoomanganj, Kydganj, and Mutthiganj in the past 24 hours against those found violating the lockdown rules. ”Thirty-one persons were booked under section 188 of the Indian Penal Code, which covers violation of section 144 of CrPc. Over 6399 vehicles were checked and 952 challaned on Thursday. Of these, 12 vehicles were also seized, the SSP further said. Additional CMO and Nodal Officer Dr Rishi Sahai said, “All the 44 sample reports from MLN medical college lab on Thursday tested negative for Covid-19.” He, however, said that 30 more samples were collected on Thursday for testing. Long queues were spotted at shops selling ration across the city on the second day of distribution of ration. Meanwhile, taking a cue from Moradabad incident where a team of doctors and police were attacked when they came to examine people, a group of doctors on Thursday demanded adequate security cover for medical and the paramedical staff.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/allahabad/17-nabbed-31-challaned-for-violating-lockdown-rules/articleshow/75187837.cms||---
April 17, 2020||Madurai||Seven more cases take Covid-19 count in southern Tamil Nadu to 297||MADURAI: The total number of Covid-19 cases in the southern region went up to 297 on Thursday with three people each from Madurai and Ramanathapuram and one from Tirunelveli testing positive. In Madurai, three people from Thirumangalam municipality tested positive. They included a 42-year-old man whose neighbour had attended the Tablighi congregation in New Delhi. The other two included the 17-year-old son of a man from Somasundram street who had attended the jamaat meet as well as the 65-year-old father-in-law of a man who had attended the conference. The elderly man’s son-in-law is also under treatment at the isolation ward of Government Rajaji Hospital. Meanwhile, as Madurai has been identified as one of the 170 hotspots for the disease across the country, the district administration has decided to intensify testing in the containment zones and ensure that nobody moves out or into them for the specified period. District collector Dr T G Vinay said that intense restrictions would be imposed in the contained zones and it would be ensured that there is zero movement in or out of it. Contacts would be screened intensely within the zone. People in the containment zone would have to get their essential commodities delivered at the doorsteps. Those who are sick in the zone and buffer zone adjoining it would be monitored regularly. With the three cases on Thursday, the total number of Covid-19 positive cases in Madurai went up to 44. Ramanathapuram reported three cases, one a 30-year- old man from a place where four cases have already been reported. Two cases are from Anandur near R S Mangalam and Mandapam from where cases have not been reported earlier. All three men had attended the religious congregation. These areas were contained fully and screening of contacts of the two new cases was initiated. With these new cases, the total cases in Ramanathapuram went up to 10. With one new case, the number of cases in Tirunelveli went up to 58 on Thursday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/seven-more-cases-take-covid-count-in-southern-tn-to-297/articleshow/75189338.cms||---
April 17, 2020||Delhi||Rain, rainbow bring some cheer, air quality better too||NEW DELHI: Rain lashed parts of the city and NCR on Friday evening, bringing down the soaring mercury and providing residents some relief from the sweltering heat. Track the pollution level in your cityIt was a sunny day in the morning but the sky turned cloudy later in the day. Till 8.30pm, Safdarjung station recorded 1.8mm rainfall. Dust storm was also witnessed in some parts, while many residents spotted a rainbow. The maximum temperature was recorded at 37.8 degrees Celsius, a notch above normal, while the minimum temperature was recorded 23.8 degrees, two points above normal. Humidity levels oscillated between 54 and 28%. According to the Indian Meteorological Department (IMD), the rain occurred due to the influence of a western disturbance in the region. “Effect of the next western disturbance will be on April 21 when thunderstorm with light rain and gusty winds to the tune of 30-40 km per hour will prevail over Delhi NCR. Before that mostly cloudy sky will prevail with one or two days of thundery developments. The maximum temperature till April 23 will be in the range of 36-38 degrees Celsius,” Kuldeep Srivastava, head of IMD’s regional weather forecasting centre, told TOI. According to MeT officials, temperature will fall due to the western disturbances but the heat waves will return after April 26. Earlier, the temperature in Delhi had breached the 40 degree-mark and Wednesday’s temperature of 40.2 degrees was this season’s highest. Some parts of Delhi experienced heat wave conditions, too, on Wednesday. On Saturday, too, partly cloudy sky with possibility of thundery development accompanied with gusty winds (speed 30-40 km per hour) is expected. The maximum and minimum temperatures will be around 39 and 22 degrees Celsius respectively. In terms of air quality, Delhi’s overall air quality index (AQI) was recorded at 105 in moderate levels, an improvement from 180 (also moderate) on Thursday, according to Central Pollution Control Board (CPCB). As per CPCB, Delhi-NCR’s average PM2.5 levels were recorded at 31.6 micrograms per cubic metre at 9pm on Friday — well within the safe standards. The average PM10 levels were recorded at 107.7 micrograms per cubic metre at the same time. The “emergency” benchmark for these pollutants under GRAP is, respectively, 300 and 500 micrograms per cubic metre, while the safe standards are 60 and 100 micrograms per cubic metre. According to System of Air Quality and Weather Forecasting And Research, the AQI is likely to marginally improve by Saturday to lower end of the moderate category.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/rain-rainbow-bring-some-cheer-air-quality-better-too/articleshow/75212144.cms||---
April 17, 2020||Allahabad||Live yoga & meditation sessions to beat stress||Prayagraj: Varanasi-based meditation expert has decided to share the ancient vedic knowledge from the only available copy of Bhrigu Samhita in his family heirloom and Yoga Brahma Chinta Pranaali with followers around the globe in two separate live sessions on Friday and Saturday through social media. The sessions will help people learn how to boost their immunity at a time when the globe is facing Covid-19 pandemic. Followers from Italy, Israel, Spain, Russia, Australia and several cities from country will be joining the one hour live sessions from 5.30pm on April 17 (Friday) and from 7.30 am on April 18 (Saturday), said Jayant Bhaduri, whose family possess over 40,000 ancient manuscripts, including the only original copy of Bhrigu Samhita. “Me and my brother Hemant are trying to disseminate the information about our sessions across the world through our disciples in several countries as meditation combined with set of mantras mentioned in the Bhrigu Samhita and yogic aasanas can do wonders in improving the immunity,” said Jayant. Throwing light on the proposed event, the duo explained to TOI that The timing of the two sessions to energise the seven chakras (energy points) of the human body has been set after many astrological calculations, he added. “We will be starting the session with dhyanam (meditation), followed by set by step activities, including recitation of vedic mantras and three very important yogic aasanas which improve the capacity of lungs,” said Hemant.  “We will also share information about some herbs mentioned in Bhrigu Samhita which are traditionally used in almost every Indian household and are known to improve immunity,” said Jayant. We will be conducting these sessions through an app and will share the link and password on our Facebook page on Friday morning, he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/allahabad/live-yoga-meditation-sessions-to-beat-stress/articleshow/75187873.cms||---
April 17, 2020||Mysuru||Police to help patients get specialised medicines||Chikkamagaluru: In the Malnad region villagers are forced to travel for hours together to reach a pharmacy, and worse still, many rural pharmacies are not well-stocked with specialised medicines, which are generally obtained from cities such as Bengaluru, Mangaluru and Mysuru. Keen on bridging the distance between the distant villages and the cities, Chikkamagaluru police have decided to act as a conduit between the patients and the urban centres. Police personnel are arranging for the transport of medicines from cities like Mangaluru and Bengaluru based on requirement. All that patients need to do is give the nearest police station a copy of the prescription, and the cops will ensure the delivery of the medicines in two or three days. However, police officers pointed out that they could not deliver the medicines to the patients’ homes. “We are working with medical representatives and arranging for the delivery of medicines to all villages. The patients or their family members can collect them at the medical cell of the nearest police station,” said a cop. Chikkamagaluru superintendent of police Harish Pandey said that the decision was taken after stations across the district were inundated with requests to travel to neighbouring towns and cities including Shivamogga, Hassan and Bengaluru for medicines. “Those who require the medicines present the prescription at the desk, and we pass it on the pharmacies, which source the medicines from the cities and delivers them to the stations. The medicines are then dispensed to the patients and the cost collected from them,” said Pandey, adding that each station at the taluk headquarters had a medical prescription cell. Residents are pleased with the initiative launched by the cops. “Owing to the restrictions, it is not possible for us to source medicines from the big cities, and such initiatives will make our lives a lot easier,” said Birur resident Sagay Achutan.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mysuru/police-to-help-patients-get-specialised-medicines/articleshow/75188380.cms||---
April 17, 2020||Madurai||Madurai: Competitive exam coaching centres go online||MADURAI: Many of the private coaching centres for various competitive exams like NEET, JEE, UPSC, TNPSC etc., are gradually shifting to virtual teaching amid lockdown. Owners and staff at coaching centres fear that the way they teach is about to change forever after lockdown is lifted. “Even as the USP for our coaching centre used to be interactive learning face to face with qualified teachers, now, we are forced to look for alternatives using online platforms and websites to reach students,” said Raman NS, manager of a private coaching centre for various competitive exams at Simmakkal. While he is sure that qualified teachers will still be making the most difference, delivery through online maybe the way to go looking forward even post lockdown. Many private coaching centres are hence already making use of online video conferencing platforms, messaging platforms to deliver their learning and practice modules. “We have already completed the portions for those taking the yearly course because thankfully it is the end of the academic year. We are now sharing questions through WhatsApp and doubts too can be cleared. Some lectures are also uploaded on YouTube which students can refer,” said Mahesh K, who runs a private coaching centre specializing in civil services exams. While few private coaching centres operate their own website with dedicated logins for students to access learning material, the smaller centres are trying to improvise through WhatsApp or YouTube which is free for all. “However, there is also a concern that use of such free apps to reach students do have privacy and security concerns. Even if we go the online route, many students and parents are not convinced or are not comfortable. The transition will take time,” added Raman.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/competitive-exam-coaching-centres-go-online/articleshow/75189346.cms||Sukshma Ramakrishnan
April 17, 2020||Indore||Corona policing goes remote with CCTVs, masjid speakers||INDORE: In a unique initiative, Indore police is now virtually monitoring four biggest red zone areas including Zhanda Chowk, Chandan Nagar, Khajrana and Azad Nagar. By installing a loudspeaker grid, which is connected to a localized control room, the officials are now able to monitor the area through CCTVs and pass instructions while sitting at control room. “I had requested authorities at masjids in these areas to allow us to utilize their highly mounted speakers. Since we have access to these speakers, we are able to reach residents in 2km area,” said IG Vivek Sharma. He added that the loudspeakers connected to the systems at the control room. “Getting feed from over 500 CCTVs with names of the streets installed in the area, the officials are able to find out if anyone is flouting norms and announce it on loudspeakers. They also give out instructions and information through the loudspeaker,” he said adding that the intensity of the loudspeaker is 2 square-km which helps in remote monitoring. The officials are also planning to expand this such that policing becomes more effective. He added that motivational audios are also being played on these speakers. IG also claimed that they are planning to geofence the people who have been home quarantined and will receive an alert if they move 500m beyond their actual location. “We will put list of 1200-1300 people, who have been quarantined along with their numbers, into a technical system, which will generate alert if they move out,” said IG. He also added that they are already conducting aerial surveys of the affected areas and the snapshots of the feed are directly being sent to the inspector of that particular police station who takes immediate actions against wrongdoers. DIG Harinarayanachari Mishra said that they have also set up a social media monitoring centre at the crime branch and unethical activities and inflammatory posts are being tracked from there. Meanwhile, police registered several cases against the accused found flouting norms. SP East Yusuf Qureshi said that 17 two-wheelers and two four wheelers were seized on Thursday. “We have booked 19 persons under section 188 of the IPC. 15 were booked under section 269,270 and 271 of the IPC. Preventive actions were initiated against 91 persons,” he told TOI. SP West Mahesh Chandra Jain said that over 200 cases have been registered against the accused and several vehicles were seized.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/indore/corona-policing-goes-remote-with-cctvs-masjid-speakers/articleshow/75189344.cms||---
April 17, 2020||Indore||MGM runs out of PPE kits, masks for staff||INDORE: Mahatma Gandhi Memorial Medical College has been struggling with shortage of stocks of personal protective kits (PPE), masks since outbreak of Covid-19 in city on March 24. The situation become so worse that currently there are only 500 PPE kits and N-95 masks in the medical college stocks. This is even less than the number of kits required in a day, official sources said. MGM dean Dr Jyoti Bindal said, “We have kits in our stock and also district administration assured us for providing 200 to 300 kits per day. Medical college runs three COVID-19 treatment facilities and one for treatment of suspects and requires around 800 kits in a day.” However, she refused to reveal exact number of PPE kits in stock. The medical college is mainly dependent on donation from social workers, private firms, NGOs for their requirement as the supply chain got damaged because of first phase of nation-wide lockdown. The situation is not so good at district health department. There are 4,500 PPE kits, 10,000 N-95 masks and 75,000 three-layer mask in stock of district health department. Dr Madhav Hasani in charge of store of district health said, “At present, 1700 to 1800 PPE kits are used on daily basis along with 2,000 to 2,500 N-95 masks.” There are no such fixed demand for three layer masks, it depends on demand from 10,000 to 15,000 daily, added Hasani.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/indore/mgm-runs-out-of-ppe-kits-masks-for-staff/articleshow/75189353.cms||Antriksh Singh
April 17, 2020||Thiruvananthapuram||Don’t insist on fees or deny wages: AICTE||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM: The All India Council for Technical Education (AICTE), in a circular issued to heads of institutions on Wednesday, said it was working with the UGC on a revised academic calendar for higher education institutions to address the impact of the nationwide lockdown. AICTE member secretary Rajive Kumar asked technical education institutions to stick to online classes during the extended lockdown and hinted at nationwide guidelines for the conduct of examinations and evaluation. “A revised academic calendar will be issued by UGC/AICTE subsequently. Regarding the conduct of semester examinations, it is clarified that UGC has constituted a committee for recommending the modalities of conduct of examinations, award of marks and passing criteria in examinations. Directions in this regard will be issued separately,’’ the letter said. The council advised students and colleges to regularly check UGC/AICTE websites for updates. The council barred all technical institutions/colleges from insisting on payment of fees by students during the lockdown period and asked all approved institutions to let students know about the same by displaying it prominently on their website and via email. “Further guidelines in this regard communicating the revised timelines will be issued by AICTE in due course,” it said. “During the lockdown period, no institution should deny payment of salary to staff, or retrench any of them…Terminations, if any, made during the lockdown will be withdrawn. A letter in this regard has also been issued to respective chief secretaries of all states/UTs,” AICTE said. The instructions come as self-finance colleges are planning to approach the Union government for interest-free loans to tide over the present crisis.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/thiruvananthapuram/dont-insist-on-fees-or-deny-wages-aicte/articleshow/75188559.cms||---
April 17, 2020||Madurai||Tamil Nadu: They ensure kids of convicts don’t starve||MADURAI: Among the many who have been hit hard by the lockdown are children of murder convicts most of whom are taken care of by their grandparents in the villages. These elderly people, living in rural areas, are daily wage labourers who have been struggling to bring up the children. Enter K R Raja, a polio-afflicted advocate at the Madurai bench of Madras high court, who has already been lending a helping hand to such children. To help their struggling families during the lockdown, he got his friends to transfer monetary assistance to 93 children of 42 convicts. Till the first week of April, his friends have transferred Rs 1.58 lakh to their accounts. The fathers of most of the children are serving long or life term imprisonment in the Madurai and Palayamkottai central prisons. The children have been living with their mother or grandparents in deprived conditions. "In five families, the father is in jail for murdering his wife and the victimised children are with their grandparents most of whom are daily wage labourers. The entire family survives on the meagre daily wage, close to or less than Rs 200," Raja told TOI based on his survey of the families and regular follow up since 2018 despite both his legs being crippled by polio. Among the nearly 20 sponsors who came forward are Sriram of Dhaya Social Welfare Trust, Chennai, who contributed Rs 39,000 for 10 families. A group of Cognizant employees in Chennai has chipped in with Rs 24,000 at Rs 3,000 for eight families. Dinesh Tadepalli from the US has contributed Rs 20,000 for five families. Some have made sponsorships for as less as Rs 1,500 to Rs 2,000. Raja plays the role of facilitator for funds transferred to the bank accounts of the children. On normal days, the aid wouldn’t come in the form of financial assistance to these families as, "their self-reliance to lead a dignified life is honoured". "We used to extend support to such children for education by getting them a free seat in education institutions," he said. He said he contacted his friends and shared individual case studies of these families to the sponsors along with the contact details and bank account number. Sponsorship for the 21 days in the initial phase of the lockdown was fixed based on the number of children and the place where they are residing. It was transferred in the last week of March and first week of April. "We gave Rs 3,000 for a family with up to two children in a rural area and maximum contribution of Rs 6,000," he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/they-ensure-kids-of-convicts-dont-starve/articleshow/75189351.cms||M K Ananth
April 17, 2020||Delhi||Crimes also locked down... almost||New Delhi: Heinous crimes in the city showed a drastic fall in the first half of April, according to the Delhi Police’s crime data between April 1 and April 15. Data during this lockdown period revealed that crimes like murder, rape, kidnapping and rioting showed an average dip of around 70% compared with the crime figures of 2019 during the same period. Street crimes like snatching and petty fights showed a dip of 79% and 60% respectively since last year. With people mostly staying in their homes, crimes like burglary have fallen from 124 cases in 2019 to 37, at present. Incidents of vehicle thefts have also fallen from 1,816 last year to 344 this year. Cops said that the increased police presence on the road is a reason behind this. Moreover, the restriction of movement across the borders has also resulted in the dip in cases of vehicle theft. “Ever since the lockdown, all the major roads are being scrutinised through pickets. Moreover, the hourly patrols and aerial monitoring have been deterring criminal activities to a large extent,” said Anil Mittal, additional PRO, Delhi Police. Incidents of rape and molestation of women, too, have shown a drastic dip of nearly 77% since people to people contact was reduced to a great extent. Cases of fatal accidents saw a significant dip from 38 cases in 2019 to only nine this year. The number of simple accidents has also fallen from 171 to 34 this year. With nearly 60 areas of the city under a complete lockdown, police officers expect the crime figures to dip further in the next half of April.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/crimes-also-locked-down-almost/articleshow/75212170.cms||---
April 17, 2020||Kochi||Kochi: Vets postpone elective surgeries due to lockdown||KOCHI: Elective surgeries and doctor appointments have either been postponed or cancelled by veterinary doctors in both government and private veterinary hospitals in Ernakulam due to Covid-19. Doctors perform only emergency surgeries like caesarean on pets and domestic animals and attend only life-threatening cases. Government veterinary centre situated near Durbar Hall ground witnesses eight to 10 surgeries on pets and domestic animals on normal days. “We perform most of the surgeries on dogs, cats and goats at this hospital. Now we have postponed all elective surgeries including sterilization on animals. When we receive call from people who tell us about the symptoms of minor disease, which do not require hospitalization at this juncture, we tell them the name of the medicine they should buy from nearby medical shops for domestic animals and pets. We perform only emergency surgeries. Currently, only one doctor and staffer have been visiting the hospital,” said a doctor at government veterinary centre in Ernakulam. The move is to ensure social distancing in hospitals and to make sure people stay indoors. “Elective surgery is one of the categories where we can postpone the procedures. Routine health check-up, grooming and other small procedures can also be postponed. Now-a-days we attend only emergency surgeries and casualty and that too after ensuring 45-minute-long interval between each case. As the government veterinary hospitals in nearby areas are not functional, more people with cats and dogs, which demand doctor’s consultation, approach us during the lockdown. We only allow one case at a time,” said Dr Gokul V, veterinary doctor at Animal Medical Centre, a private hospital in Angamaly. Animal lovers also do not encourage people to take animals to veterinary hospitals unless it’s an emergency. “There is no problem in postponing certain surgeries, which are not life-threatening. We have taken three to four stray dogs to hospital as they required a doctor’s attention. We have been advised to take the pet animals to hospitals only on emergency conditions, says Aswni Prem of Oneness, an NGO working for stray animals in the city.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/vets-postpone-elective-surgeries-due-to-lockdown/articleshow/75187186.cms||T C Sreemol
April 17, 2020||Kanpur||Two suspected coronavirus patients die at LLR Hospital||Kanpur: A nine-year-old girl and a middle-aged man died in the COVID-19 section of LLR hospital on Thursday morning.They had been admitted to the hospital on Wednesday night. Their samples have been sent to COVID-19 lab of GSVM Mmedical College to confirm whether they were suffering from cornavirus, medical authorities said. As many as 38 quarantined cases were found negative in tests and they have been allowed to go home with certain instructions. So far, around 1,038 quarantined persons have regained health and left quarantined centres. According to a bulletin of health department, 36 suspected cases have been admitted to the hospital and three out of them were found positive. Dr Ashok Shukla in the evening informed that authorities had planned to load 92 samples in the evening and 46 out of them were from Ghatampur. The second sample report of five members of Tablighi Jamaat was termed as negative. Six Jamaatis were admitted at an isolation ward of COVID-19 section of LLR hospital and report of five was found as negative. Now only one Jamaati is infected and being treated, as confirmed by the GSVM lab report on Wednesday. As many as 22 suspeccted cases were found at Suffa Mosque, Babupurwa and Badi Mosque of Baripal under Sajeti police. They were isolated at Naraina institute. Seven out of them were foreigners and they belong to Afghanistan (two), Iran (three) and Britain (1). On April 1, their samples were sent to KGMC Lucknow and on April 3, six out of them were adjudged as corona positive. One Afghanistani was declared as negative. Thereafter, they were being treated at COVID- 19 hospitl. Their second sample was sent to GSVM medical college lab on Tuesday night and on Wednesday report revealed that five of them were now negative. The man who has been found positive belongs to village Bilhari of Sultanpur district, according to Prof R K Maurya, chief medical superintendent of LLR hospital. Meanwhile, three educational institutes on Thursday came forward and donated Rs 42 lakhs for fight against corona. According to district magistrate Brahmdeo Ram Tiwari, a cheque of Rs. 21 lakh was given by Dayanand Education Group, UP by Manvendra Swarup, cheque of Rs 15 lakh from JK Group and Rs 6 lakh from DAV Law College by principal Yatindra Shukla. HAL prepared and donated a treatment Unit. Hindustan Aeronautics Limited ( HAL) has prepared a corona kit for mediacl staff. HAL authorities gave a demo of this kit via a documentary film before Satish Mahana, state industries minister, DM, SSP Anant Deo and Dr Arati Lalchandani, principal GSVM Medical College. The authorities also informed that HAL staff was also preparing masks and head gears for the doctors and para-medical staff. Meanwhile, the district administration continued its efforts to maintain lockdown in hotspot and red zone areas. The administration used drones for aerial survey and police kept a strict vigil on road. Municipal corporation continued sanitization work in red zones and hotspot areas.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kanpur/two-suspected-coronavirus-patients-die-at-llr-hospital/articleshow/75188855.cms||---
April 17, 2020||Kanpur||Sanitization operations: Demand for sodium hypochlorite doubles||Kanpur: Demand of sodium hypochlorite has increased as the city is consuming around 200 tonnes of chemical per month. Before Covid-19 crisis, the city used to consume around 100 tonnes per month, according to sources. The chemical is mostly used in textile dying and hotel industry. Kanpur Municipal Corporation uses it for sanitization purpose. According to KMC health department, the corporation is consuming maximum supply of sodium hypochlorite. At present, 110 hand machines have been given to each corporator and nine machines to each zone. KMC has divided the city in six zones. Besides, it has also pressed its 12 jetting machines for sanitization. Health officer, Dr Ajay Kumar Shankhwar said, “The chemical is mixed in 9:1 ratio in water in which the water content is 9. Each jetting machine has a capacity of 3000 litres. It means for one jetting machine 300 litres of chemical is required”. He said if the area of sanitization increased then it might be possible that the services of fire brigades would also be required in sanitization. Since capacity of their tanker is much more than the KMC jetting machines, therefore, the demand for this chemical would increase in the coming days. General secretary, Acid and Chemical Merchants Association Kishore Saxena said that at present the consumption of this chemical was almost double in the city because it was being extensively used in sanitization.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kanpur/sanitization-operations-demand-for-sodium-hypochlorite-doubles/articleshow/75188874.cms||---
April 17, 2020||Goa||RBI cancels MUCB’s licence||Panaji: Pulling the plug on one of Goa’s oldest cooperative banks, the Reserve Bank of India (RBI) on Thursday cancelled Mapusa Urban Co-operative Bank Ltd’s (MUCB) banking licence, paving the way for its liquidation since multiple attempts at the merger route have failed. According to sources, the bank can appeal against the decision and the state government can also intervene. If RBI does decide to appoint an official liquidator, the assets of the bank will be used to pay off the depositors, while the liabilities of the bank will also be settled. “The management will meet and decide the next course of action,” former chairman of the cooperative bank Ramakant Khalap said. Managing director of the bank Shailendra Sawant said that he was not authorised to speak on the issue while chairman Gurudas Natekar did not respond to repeated calls. Under Section 22 (4) of the Banking Regulation Act 1949, RBI can cancel the licence issued to a bank if it fails to adhere to banking norms. RBI imposed financial sanctions on MUCB in July 2015 after the bank’s non performing assets surged and its accumulated losses crossed Rs 100 crore. With the banks capital adequacy ratio falling well below RBI’s 9% stipulation, the banking regulator put an embargo on lending and withdrawal. As the financial curbs were repeatedly extended, the latest being a two-month extension in February 18, depositors and shareholders began to fear that the bank would go into liquidation. MUCB has 24 branches in the State besides the head office in Mapusa and 193 staff members in all. Besides, the bank has 1.19 lakh shareholders and 2.48 lakh depositors. Khalap told TOI that the bank will be able to pay off 90% of the depositors if RBI allows the bank to sell all its assets. The remaining depositors can be repaid as all the account holders are covered by the Deposit Insurance and Credit Guarantee Corporation. Since February 4, each depositor’s account has been insured for up to a sum of Rs 5 lakh. “The bank’s total deposits are Rs 350 crore of which Rs 230 crore is in government securities. Besides this, all the accounts are covered by insurance. We have calculated that we will be able to get Rs 170 crore in insurance, which we can pay to our depositors,” Khalap said. MUCB also has real estate assets with a book value of Rs 90 crore but the market value of the properties could vary depending on market conditions. Facing the ire of depositors and shareholders, the MUCB management tried to merge the bank with Punjab and Maharashtra Cooperative Bank Ltd (PMC). Talks faltered as soon as RBI imposed financial restrictions on PMC Bank. MUCB had made repeated pleas to the state government for share capital, but the BJP-headed government refused to bail out the cooperative bank which has quite a few Congress members on its board. Khalap insisted that the setback is not the end of the road for the bank, which was set up in December 1965. “We can still operate as a cooperative credit society. This does not have to be the end of the road,” Khalap said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/rbi-cancels-mucbs-licence/articleshow/75190528.cms||Newton Sequeira
April 17, 2020||Kanpur||Corona spoils grand wedding plans, simple ceremony organized||Kanpur: A marriage ceremony was solemnised amid lockdown in Farrukhabad district with just a handful of guests in attendance. The hosts and guests duly maintained social distancing during the rituals, while only three persons from the groom’s family came for the wedding. The marriage of Shivi (21), resident of Rajepur town in Farrukhabad, had been fixed with Anil Kumar (24), a native of Kalan town of Shahjahanpur district months ago and both families had made arrangements for a grand wedding. However, since the nationwide lockdown was extended till May 3, both the families decided to solemnise the wedding scheduled on April 15 in a simple way. There were around 10 hosts from the bride’s side to welcome the baraat, comprising of the groom Anil, his father Satyapal and uncle Netrapal. They were given hand sanitizers and then taken to the house where the wedding rituals were performed. Shivi’s father Umesh Saxena, a wholesale shop owner, said massive arrangements had been made by the two families, but they had to cancel all the arrangements. Both groom and bride were made to wash their hands before exchanging garlands and taking marriage vows. Social distancing was ensured during the marriage, said Saxena. “We drew circles with a distance of six feet where couple exchanged marriage vows. All rituals took place during the day time. We served home-cooked food to the guests, including the groom. I could have never thought that my daughter’s marriage will be such a low-key affair,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kanpur/corona-spoils-grand-wedding-plans-simple-ceremony-organized/articleshow/75188896.cms||Faiz Rahman Siddiqui
April 17, 2020||Visakhapatnam||In isolation, people in Andhra seek solace in family||VISAKHAPATNAM: Psychologists and psychiatrists offering tele-counselling services over the last two weeks have observed that in spite of an increase in feelings of stress, anxiety, depression and fear among the public, a few positive outcomes in behaviour have also emerged out of the lockdown. Even with social distancing, interaction and bonding among families have gone up on account of the use of smart phones. Bored at home and with domestic help on leave, families have also started to share domestic chores. Additionally, the lack of ready access to alcohol is leading some habitual drinkers to kick the habit, even as they are struggling with de-addiction symptoms in the initial stages. Speaking about de-addiction, Dr S Radharani, medical superintendent at Government Hospital for Mental Care (GHMC) said, “Those who are habituated to drinking alcohol will be facing certain withdrawal syndrome for about 10-15 days such as cravings for alcohol, insomnia, irritability, fits and in extreme cases hallucinations, confusion and delirium tremors, which require hospitalisation. After the acute withdrawal phase passes, their condition will improve. Since alcohol supply is cut off, some of them may quit the habit of drinking. So far, we did not get any such major case that requires hospitalisation.” Professor of psychology at Andhra University (AU) Prof MVR Raju said, “Since April 2, our team of psychologists offering tele-counselling to people all over AP have received several calls most of which showed they were suffering from anxiety, aggressiveness, stress, fear, depression, insecurity, especially financial insecurity related to pay cuts, lay-offs, economic recession. Those who were working abroad or wanted to study in foreign universities and parents with children stuck abroad are also a worried lot. Since social media is full of conflicting opinions, people are getting more stressed and depressed constantly viewing those.” “Nearly 20 calls were from help-seekers related to alcohol withdrawal symptoms. We have advised them alternatives like cool drinks, chewing gums, suggested family therapy, picking up a hobby to divert the mind, behaviour modification therapy, emotive therapy, relaxation technique and so on and we hope once the lockdown is over, the therapies and rehab counselling can continue to help them with the de-addiction process,” added Prof Raju.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/visakhapatnam/in-isolation-people-seek-solace-in-family/articleshow/75188399.cms||Sulogna Mehta
April 17, 2020||Indore||Team from Centre in hotspot Indore to assess the situation||INDORE: Rapidly increasing cases of Covid-19, which has made Indore the biggest hotspot in Central India, drew attention of the Union government as they sent an assessment team to take stock of the situation here. Divisional commissioner Akash Tripathi and collector Manish Singh informed the team of senior officials about the present situation and efforts made by them to deal with it. To this, the team assured Indore administration of rendering all possible help. The central assessment team also informed senior administrative officials to soon provide them training and technical support for better management of Covid-19 control plan. During the day, the team members visited MGM Medical College and held discussion with the pathologists and microbiologists regarding sample testing and possibility to increase the capacity. The team also took stock of a newly-developed virology lab in college. Meanwhile, district administration released an order to fix duties and responsibilities of the hospitals kept in red, red-cum-yellow and light yellow category. As per orders, Covid-19 patients and above 60 years of age persons with comorbidity (symptomatic) to be admitted in the hospitals of red category, where medical facility of ventilators with oxygen attachment, ICUs and dedicated ambulances with life-support system will be present. Total five hospitals kept in red category has total 1670 beds while there are total 1051 beds in 12 hospitals under red-cum-yellow category for treatment of positive and ‘mild-serious’ patients. In light yellow-category, seven facilities including hospitals, hotels and two buildings of education institutions have been kept to offer total 1400 beds. While the said facilities have been instructed not to show any negligence or apathy in rendering the asked facilities and treatment to the patients as it will lead to strict actions against them, the senior officials concerned have been given financial rights to handle the management.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/indore/team-from-centre-in-hotspot-indore-to-assess-the-situation/articleshow/75189362.cms||---
April 17, 2020||Kanpur||Kanpur: Man kills son, hangs self in Harbanshmohal||KANPUR: A 40-year-old insurance agent allegedly killed his minor son by hanging him and later hanged himself under the limits of Harbanshmohal police station. The deceased have been identified as Hemant Kanodia of Gadariya Mohal locality and his son, Anay (8). Anay was studying in class II at a public school at Mall road area of the city. Going by the preliminary findings, Hemant took the extreme step on Wednesday night. Hemant's wife Rita, who had been suffering from an ailment, died on the Mahashivratri day. Since then, Hemant was reeling under acute depression. He and his son used to take meals at his elder brother Prabhat's place in Generalganj area of the city, police said. His other brother Vinay, who resides in Pheelkhana Patkapur area told investigators that Hemant was not answering to his call since Wednesday evening. On Thursday morning at around 8, he along with his family members visited Hemant's flat located in Gadariya Mohal locality of Harbanshmohal. After getting no response despite several knockings, he pushed the door and went inside and found bodies of Hemant and his son hanging from the ceiling. They alerted neighbours, who in turn informed the Harbanshmohal police. A team rushed to the spot and found that the duo had died long ago. The bodies were shifted to the mortuary for postmortem. "Hemant as per his family members used to work as an insurance agent. He was reeling under acute depression since his wife's death, who passed away on Mahashivratri day after prolonged illness. As no suicide note was recovered, a detailed inquiry was under way to ascertain the exact reason behind the extreme step," said inspector Harbanshmohal Satish Kumar Singh. Meanwhile, in Gangapur colony, a22-year-old girl allegedly committed suicide by hanging herself on late Wednesday night. The police identified the deceased as Sonam, a resident of Gangapur colony. “No suicide not was recovered from the spot. Investigations are continuing,” said inspector Pushpraj Singh.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kanpur/man-kills-son-hangs-self-in-harbanshmohal/articleshow/75188884.cms||---
April 17, 2020||Ahmedabad||Gujarat: Anxiety in Congress as leaders, workers test positive||GANDHINAGAR: There is serious concern in the state Congress camp after several Ahmedabad-based leaders and their family members tested positive for Covid-19. A number of senior leaders, including MLAs have been placed under home quarantine as they interacted with those who have tested positive for Covid-19. Apart from Jamalpur-Khadia MLA Imran Khedawala, who has tested positive along with a few of his family members, senior leader and leader of opposition in the AMC, Badruddin Shaikh, and his family members have also tested positive. Other city Congress leaders like Naresh Chaurasia, Hitesh Panchal, Piyush Padhiyar have also tested positive. Two other Congress MLAs from city, Gyasuddin Sheikh and Shailesh Parmar, who had accompanied Khedawala to meet the CM, have also been quarantined although they have tested negative. Many of those who have tested positive for Covid-19, regularly visited the GPCC headquarters and interacted with dozens of Congress workers. A party worker who handles social media accounts of party functionaries has also tested positive for Covid-19. This has caused a lot of anxiety among the party cadre who are currently posted at the state headquarters to coordinate party activities across the state. Jayrarajsinh Parmar, Congress spokesperson said, “It is unfortunate that our MLA and other leaders have tested positive. Unlike BJP leaders who are not working in the field, our leaders have remained among the people in these times of crisis.” State Congress president Amit Chavda said, “It is a matter of concern for us that several party leaders have tested positive. We have advised out party leaders and workers to take utmost care, even as we will not stay away from our responsibility of taking care of the poor and others during the lockdown.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/anxiety-in-congress-as-leaders-workers-test-positive/articleshow/75189379.cms||Kapil Dave
April 17, 2020||Chennai||Starting trouble? Caremongers show you how to help||Many people who’ve had their fundamental needs of food, clothing and shelter taken care of during the lockdown may look to help those less privileged. Yet, the struggle to figure out where to start, followed by how and how much, more so if they have no volunteering experience to fall back on. But Bengaluru-based single mom Mahita Nagaraj’s book offers a great solution — start where you are, give what you have and do what you can. And soon enough, you may have 34,000 Indians rooting for you. Around the second week of March, Nagaraj posted a couple of messages on Facebook with the aim of getting essentials to elderly parents of friends living abroad. She is now at the helm of a 34,379-strong volunteer movement called Caremongers India. In Chennai, close to 50 Caremongers are offering various services from accommodation to visitors stranded in the city, procuring medicines to immuno-compromised elders and facilitating blood donations. “It started with me deciding to help seniors, people with pre-existing medical conditions and physical disabilities, and new and expecting mothers in Bengaluru. But, within the first 24 hours, I started getting requests from other cities as well and decided to condense it all to a Facebook group. And that’s when the paradigm really changed. Thousands of volunteers from across cities joined in, offering to help the needy in their neighbourhoods,” says Nagaraj. Chennai-based Caremonger and yoga teaher Menaka Seetharaman, says she hasn’t felt this connected to the whole country at a time when she is ironically most socially distant from the world. “Being part of this worldwide movement, I also learned that this is the time to tap into all the goodwill you have created with your network of friends and acquaintances, to help people who need food, shelter or transportation. This is the time to show what we can do,” she says. And because many beneficiaries – especially the elderly – were either not tech-savvy or reticent to ask for help on a public portal, Caremongers India also started a helpline (9591168886) through which requests are mapped to volunteers in the neighbourhood, ensuring quick assistance and minimal outdoor movement for the volunteer. Nagaraj now takes close to 150 calls a day on the helpline, and steps out when needed to get essentials to people in Bengaluru. To cut the risk of infection, she has sent her son to his best friend’s place, and her mother to her aunt’s. She hasn’t met them in weeks. “This is a time, when irrespective of our social stature and background, we are all forced into isolation. Because all of us have some loved ones fending for themselves, this period has also driven us to self-reflect and become empathetic. I’d say the only thing that can get us through this is this sense of community,” she says.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/starting-trouble-caremongers-show-you-how-to-help/articleshow/75189382.cms||Saranya Chakrapani
April 17, 2020||Jaipur||Rajasthanis stuck abroad seek government support to return||JAIPUR: Many Rajasthanis, including students, are stuck abroad due to coronavirus pandemic. They have sought Indian government’s help to get out of those nations as soon as possible. Thirty four-year-old Javed Hussain from Churu, who has a laundry in Bahrain, is waiting for evacuation by the Indian government. “I used to earn 15 dinar a day in my laundry which has come down to only 1 dinar. Such a drastic fall in my income has made it difficult for me to survive. I have to pay the rent and licence fee as well. Now, I am getting money from home though I should be the one helping them out,” said Hussian. Similar condition is faced by around 1,000 students from Rajasthan who are stuck in Philippines. All the international flights are cancelled and students are fearing for their life as the number of positive cases is rising in Philippines. Bharat Pratap Singh Shekhawat, a second-year MBBS student in Manila from Sikar explained his plight. “As per Philippines laws, any person found positive of coronavirus has to first deposit 3.5 lakh Peso (Rs 4.5 lakh in Indian currency) in hospital to get the treatment started. We fear if we get positive, we will not get treatment and would cost us more. If we had so much money, we would have done MBBS in India.” Bharat, along with 100 Rajasthani students, went to airport in March but all flights were cancelled. They tried to contact Indian embassy but nothing has happened so far. No masks and sanitizers are available in Philippines market to take at least some precautions for their safety. He explained that vegetables are very expensive and shops are out of ration. “Most of the Indian canteens have stopped functioning. Shops do not have ration and prices of vegetables are skyrocketing. I went to the market on Monday where one potato was sold for Rs 106 peso i.e. around Rs 160. How are we going to survive here in the coming days? We want the government to evacuate us as soon as possible,” said Bharat. Some people went abroad in March as there was no travel advisory by the government. Professors in Rajasthan University Rashmi and Sudhir Raniwala sent a mail to TOI stating that they are not been able to leave New Zealand due to the lockdown. Sudhir wrote, “Complete lockdown of March 22 came as a surprise to us. We got the message on March 20 morning when we were far from any major city. There was nothing we could do then, prompting us to go to Indian High Commission on the next working day (March 23) but wasn’t fruitful. We are staying at a relative’s place but have no clarity on our return. We are willing to pay our expenses but Indian government must initiate proceedings to evacuate us.” Repeated mails are being sent to the Indian embassies and tweets to PM Narendra Modi. No decision has been made as of yet to evacuate Indians form the foreign land who looking at the bleak future.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/rajasthanis-stuck-abroad-seek-govt-support-to-return/articleshow/75190207.cms||Parul Kulshrestha
April 17, 2020||Chennai||25 new Covid-19 positives in Tamil Nadu, CM Edappadi K Palaniswami says fresh infections may end in three days||CHENNAI: Tamil Nadu recorded 25 new Covid-19 positive cases on Thursday, prompting chief minister Edappadi K Palaniswami to express the hope that the state will see an end to fresh infections in three days. “Today 62 people have been discharged from various hospitals. So far, 180 people have been cured and discharged,” the CM said after a review meeting with district collectors. The state is hopeful that all active cases in hospitals will turn negative within a fortnight, he said. A 56-year-old man died at the Villupuram Government Medical College and Hospital of Covid-19 on Thursday taking the toll in the state to 15. A total of 1,267 people have been infected by the virus. Of the 25 cases declared positive on Thursday, 21 were from the Tablighi Jamaat cluster, two of them had a travel history, and the source has not yet been identified for one of them. All the 12 districts that recorded cases on Thursday did not have more than 5 positive cases. While Namakkal recorded five cases, Chennai which tops the state chart with 217 cases had three cases along with Madurai, Vellore and Ramnad. Tamil Nadu has evolved plans for 558 danger zonesAll the 12 districts that recorded cases on Thursday did not have more than 5 positive cases. While Namakkal recorded five cases, Chennai which tops the state chart with 217 cases had three cases along with Madurai, Vellore and Ramnad. “We hope to see zero cases in three days,” Palaniswami told reporters. “The highly infectious disease is major challenge. But we have kept adequate personnel and equipment to handle any surge in infections. We are hoping we won’t need them,” he said. The state has 3,371 ventilators, 65 lakh masks and 3 lakh N95 masks, 2 lakh PPEs and 1.95 lakh PCR testing kits, he said. “We have placed orders for 2,571 more ventilators, 35,000 PCR kits and 5 lakh rapid test kits if there is a situation like in US, Italy and Spain,” he added. The state government has evolved plans for 558 containment zones and screened 85.07 lakh individuals for Covid-19. The number of samples tested in the state went up to 26,005 on Thursday from 21,994 on Wednesday. During the same time, the state added one more lab taking the total number of testing centres to 27. The number of people in government quarantine facilities fell from 107 to 41 and the number of people in hospital isolation went up from 1,876 to 1,882.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/25-new-ves-in-tn-eps-says-fresh-infections-may-end-in-three-days/articleshow/75190210.cms||---
April 17, 2020||Coimbatore||Police contacts of Covid +ve man test -ve||Coimbatore: The 39 police personnel whose swab samples were sent for tests on Wednesday have tested negative for Covid-19, health department officials said on Thursday. The police personnel were tested after coming in contact with a 61-year-old man from Kotari Nagar near Thudiyalur who tested positive on April 13 and was admitted at the ESI hospital here. On March 23, he returned to Coimbatore from New Delhi in a flight and later visited the Thudiyalur police station to obtain special permission to provide food for guest workers and homeless people. He was advised to get the passes at the district collectorate, following which he visited the collectorate. He also allegedly provided food to a few cops deployed on Mettupalayam road. He had also visited the primary health center at Thudiyalur. After he tested positive, 14 of his relatives, 27 people from the primary health center and 39 cops who had come in contact with him were quarantined. Throat swab samples were taken from all 80 people and were sent for tests. The health department said that all 80 people have tested negative for Covid-19.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/police-contacts-of-covid-ve-man-test-ve/articleshow/75189397.cms||---
April 17, 2020||Jaipur||Rajasthan: Samples get mixed up, reach wrong hospitals||JAIPUR: Samples taken from suspected Covid-19 cases in Alwar reached Kotputli, near Jaipur, while samples from Ramganj arrived in Alwar on April 12. They were meant to be tested in Jaipur. The mix-up happened when hospital staff and health workers who took these samples to SMS Medical College’s microbiology department for testing returned to their districts with vaccine carrier boxes that were supposed to have been emptied at SMS Hospital in Jaipur. Instead, they got mixed up — “human error”, according to SMS Hospital — and the staff returned with sealed vaccine carrier boxes that were still loaded with samples, but from other collection centres. The result: Samples that were to be removed and tested at SMS Jaipur instead made their way to other district hospitals. Alwar district collector Inderjeet Singh raised the alarm and wrote to the Sawai Man Singh (SMS) Medical College’s microbiology department informing them of the lapse. In the letter, Singh said they had sent samples of suspected cases of Covid-19 to SMS Medical College for testing. It was a human error, says SMS college profJaipur: After submitting the samples at the medical college, the staff of Alwar district hospital returned from SMS Medical College with the “vaccine carrier box”, but the hospital staff in Alwar were shocked when they discovered 20 samples from Covid-19 suspects, collected from Ramganj area of Jaipur city, in the carrier box. TOI is in possession of a copy of the letter (dated April 14). “The healthcare worker was not aware about the fact that the vaccine carrier was not empty but was carrying samples of suspected Covid-19 cases. In such a situation, there is a possibility of the person handling the vaccine carrier box getting infected with the virus.” However, after receiving the samples, the pathologist at Alwar district hospital immediately informed the chief medical health officer, Alwar. The Alwar health authorities then grew worried about the fate of the samples they had sent. On inquiring, they discovered that they had been found in the vaccine carrier box carried back from SMS Medical College Hospital’s microbiology department to the government hospital in Kotputli. The Kotputli health worker, too, had believed the vaccine carrier box they were taking back was empty. “We found 11 samples which were collected from Alwar’s Ramgarh area. We talked to higher authorities and, after their consent, we destroyed the samples,” Dr KL Meena, principal medical officer, government hospital, Kotputli, told TOI. Dr Nitya Vyas, professor and head (microbiology department), SMS Medical College, said it was a human error. “The samples are carried in a vaccine carrier box by healthcare staff of different districts. They take it to our laboratory. We take out the samples from the vaccine carrier box and disinfect them and place them outside the lab, maintaining a gap between them. The staff from different districts take back with them empty vaccine carrier boxes,” Vyas said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/samples-get-mixed-up-reach-wrong-hospitals/articleshow/75190215.cms||Syed Intishab Ali
April 17, 2020||Kochi||Chekkutty creator makes ‘Coveed’ to urge coexistence||KOCHI: In order to promote coexistence during Covid-19 situation and urge people to contribute something to feed the needy, social entrepreneur Lakshmi Menon, one among the creators of Chekkutty doll, has come up with another campaign named ‘Coveed’. Coveed is a small papercraft house, which can be easily made by anyone at home during the lockdown with an A4 size paper. After making it, people can keep aside a share of grain or pulses when they cook for their family and pack it in the Coveed. One Coveed made out of an A4 size paper can hold rice sufficient for meals for two persons. The grains could be donated to an orphanage or old age home after the lockdown is lifted. “The spirit of Coveed is coexistence through co-sharing. It aims to promote social contribution while we engage in our daily activities and play in the safety of our homes. I began it as a leisure activity during the lockdown days but seeing the support from the people I thought of giving it a social dimension. Many are in need of food and the community kitchens are doing a great job. Each one of us can make contributions by sharing a small portion of our ration,” Menon said. Besides food items, people could use Coveed to pay tribute to the health workers, policemen, fire force officers, etc.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/chekkutty-creator-makes-coveed-to-urge-coexistence/articleshow/75187212.cms||---
April 17, 2020||Vadodara||Khambhat now counts for 17 +ve cases||Vadodara/Anand: With five from same locality testing positive in Khambhat, just one stretch of Gujarat’s coastal town – Aling crossroads - now counts for as many as 17 COVID-19 cases. After Wednesday, when seven from a family of Aling crossroads had tested positive, five others who stay in the neighbourhood also tested positive on Thursday. The area was already declared as a cluster containment zone on April 11 . While other members of her family had tested positive, a 35-year-old man staying in her neighbourhood tested positive the next day. Within last two days, 12 people who had come in close contact with the 35-year-old man have tested positive. Those who tested positive on Thursday include three females in the age group of 24 to 60 years and two males, one 22-year-old and another 44-year-old. All these patients have been admitted at civil hospital in Anand where they are being treated in isolation ward. Counting the five cases reported from Khambhat, Anand’s tally of positive cases on Thursday touched 23 as a 45-year-old male from Vohrwad lane of Umreth taluka also tested positive. The patient has been admitted at N D Desai Hospital, Nadiad. According to district health officials, 236 samples in the district have tested negative so far. While there are 1,315 individuals in home quarantine, 30 individuals have been kept under quarantine in government facility. Currently, of the 23 cases, 14 are under treatment at civil hospital, Anand, eight at Shree Krishna Hospital, Karamsad and one at N D Desai Hospital, Nadiad, Of these, five patients are on oxygen while 18 others are normal. No patient is on ventilator support or critical.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/khambhat-now-counts-for-17-ve-cases/articleshow/75188306.cms||---
April 17, 2020||Ahmedabad||‘Viral list of cops is someone’s guesswork’||Ahmedabad: A list of 27 police officers and personnel who had allegedly met Congress MLA Imran Khedawala is doing the rounds on social media since Wednesday. Khedawala has tested positive for Covid-19 and is currently under treatment at SVP Hospital.The police claim that the list is not authentic and that someone close to police circles may have prepared it purely based on guesswork.However, some do admit that the list has put their family members in a bit of worry and they are forcing them to go for Covid-19 testing.A police officer who is named in the list told TOI that he had never met Imran Khedawala, but it is possible he had met someone who met Khedawala. The officer, too, claimed the list was plain guesswork.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/viral-list-of-cops-is-someones-guesswork/articleshow/75189394.cms||---
April 17, 2020||Kanpur||Five youths develop sanitizing machine||Kanpur: Five young men of Bidhnoo town in Kanpur district conceptualised and made a sanitizing machine within two days at a minimum cost. The youths are Prince Pandey, Vikas Pandey, Vivek Mishra, Vijay Kumar and Krishna Pal, all residents of Deendayalpuram in Bidhnoo town. All of them are mechanics in an RO company. “The COVID-19 crisis drove us to use our technical brains and come up with a sanitizing machine which could sanitize a large number of people. This idea struck our mind after we saw the sanitization tunnel being constructed in lakhs,” said Prince. Last Thursday, we procured racks of two almirahs and shaped them into an automatic metal detector. We then installed spray nozzles on the roof of the model,” he added. “A water tank of 8 litres was placed on the top of the structure and electric wiring was spread. After some initial hiccups, the machine was ready in two days time,” said Vijay. Vikas stated that for carrying out a test run, the water tank was filled with sanitizer and a person was made to stand on the machine. As soon as the man got on the machine, nozzles started spraying the sanitizer and within three seconds, the entire body was sanitized. After several successful tests, we were assured that the machine worked perfectly, said Vivek. They said that eight litres of sanitizer could sanitize as many as 3600 persons. The machine has been placed at one of the entry points of Deendayalpuram so that every person could reach his house after proper sanitization . They said the cost of machine was Rs 5,000 and now they could manufacture five machines per day at a minimum cost on demand.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kanpur/five-youths-develop-sanitizing-machine/articleshow/75188924.cms||---
April 17, 2020||Visakhapatnam||CII forms interim taskforce for relief operations||VISAKHAPATNAM: The Confederation of Indian Industry (CII) Andhra Pradesh State Council has formed an interim taskforce on Covid-19 to actively involve the industry in relief operations. Under the taskforce, six sub-groups have been formed, namely: finance, Covid-19 best practices, resources, business challenges and opportunities, corporate social responsibility, and capability building to help industry. In a statement issued recently, CII AP State Council chairman D Ramakrishna said the confederation is working closely with the state government in its efforts to contain the spread of Covid-19 and in relief and rehabilitation measures. As part of relief measures, CII’s member companies have distributed sanitisers and PPE in Guntur and Tirupati. The Amaravati and Vizag chapters are involved in distributing food and essentials among the poor, the statement said. The statement stated that CII welcomes the guidelines issued by the Union ministry of home affairs to give scope to industry for the phased restart of the economy. The statement further says that CII also welcomes the strategic relaxation of key economic activities from April 20. “The opening up of manufacturing facilities in rural areas will provide a lot of relief to small enterprises and workers,” said Ramakrishna.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/visakhapatnam/cii-forms-interim-taskforce-for-relief-operations/articleshow/75188416.cms||---
April 17, 2020||Thiruvananthapuram||New test kit cheaper & more accurate||Thiruvananthapuram: Sree Chitra Tirunal Institute for Medical Sciences and Technology has developed a diagnostic test kit which is cheaper, faster and more accurate than the existing kits used for RT-PCR test, the best option for diagnosing Covid-19 around the world. The Chitra Gene LAMP-N kit, which detects N-gene of SARS-CoV2 using reverse transcriptase loop-mediated amplification of viral nucleic acid (RT-LAMP), was tested successfully at National Institute of Virology in Alappuzha as per the validation protocol of Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR). A formal approval from ICMR, which is expected soon, will enable large scale kit manufacturing, thus helping India to implement rigorous testing among the population, which experts say is the only way to arrest the spread of the pandemic. “The test kit, which is highly specific for SARS-CoV-2 N-gene, can detect two regions of the gene, which will ensure that the test doesn’t fail even if one region undergoes mutation during its current spread. The present test (PCR) involves screening and confirmatory test in two steps. This is one confirmatory test for two segments of one gene,” said director of the institute Dr Asha Kishore. The new testing mode can be regarded as a substitute for RT-PCR (reverse transcription polymerase chain reaction) recommended by Centre for Disease Control, USA. “The tests performed at NIV Alappuzha found that Chitra Gene LAMP-N had 100% accuracy and 100% congruence with test results using RT-PCR. This has been intimated to ICMR. The next step is approval of Chitra Gene LAMP- N by ICMR for Covid-19 testing in India and licence from central drugs standard control organisation (CDSCO) for manufacture,” she said. Using Chitra Gene LAMP-N, the gene detection time is 10 minutes and sample to result time (from RNA extraction in swab to RT LAMP detection time) will be less than two hours. Thirty samples can be tested in a single batch in a machine and the significantly-lower waiting time will allow more samples to be tested each day in a single machine in multiple shifts. The testing facility can be set up even in labs of district hospitals with limited facilities and trained laboratory technicians. The results can be read from the machine from the change in fluorescence. The new device for LAMP-N testing will cost only Rs 2.5 lakh and the test kit will cost less than Rs 1000/test for labs. The team led by Dr Anoop Thekkuveettil, a senior scientist of the biomedical technology wing of the institute, made this innovation. The technology has been transferred to Agappe Diagnostics Ltd, Ernakulam, a firm involved with in-vitro diagnostics and partner of the institute in the segment of in-vitro diagnostics. With the validation results from NIV, Agappe Diagnostics will send application to CDSCO seeking licence to manufacture kits.  The company has applied for funding from technology development board of DST for manufacturing.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/thiruvananthapuram/new-test-kit-cheaper-more-accurate/articleshow/75187230.cms||---
April 17, 2020||Jaipur||Include donations to CM fund under CSR activity: Cos||Jaipur: Rajasthan CMRF Covid-19 Mitigation Fund has received about Rs 140 crore as donation from individuals and companies but sources in the government said the contribution could have been substantially higher has it been covered under CSR activity.The chief minister on April 10 had written to Prime Minister Narendra Modi to give directions for considering the donation to the CM relief fund as CSR activity but the corporate affairs ministry has not made any change to the existing rules. “The Covid-19 pandemic has created a huge crisis and we need support from sources. If the donation to the CMRF fund is treated as CSR expenditure, there will be more companies which can come forward,” the chief minister said in the letter.But the corporate affairs ministry in its circular dated April 10 reiterated that chief minister’s relief fund for Covid-19 is not included in the Schedule VII of the Companies Act 2013 and therefore any contribution to such funds shall not qualify as admissible CSR expenditure.Atul Sharma, head of FICCI-Rajasthan, said, “FICCI through its members have contributed around Rs 10 crore in Rajasthan CM Relief Fund and some of them have raised the issue of it being denied as a CSR expense by ministry of corporate affairs. In such a crisis, we feel it may be allowed which motivate more and more companies to contribute in their respective states. FICCI has raised this with the ministry but a favourable outcome is yet to be received.”Sources said because of this many companies are carrying out CSR activities to help people by way of distributing food packets and other means but they are not giving funds to the CMRF fund.“We are a little disappointed that our contribution will not be treated as CSR activity. Some companies were certain that the donations will be treated as CSR expenditure but sadly that is not the case. May be because of that some companies willing to donate are undertaking CSR activities themselves instead of giving the money,” said managing director a listed company. However, the money donated will be 100% exempt from income tax.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/include-donations-to-cm-fund-under-csr-activity-cos/articleshow/75190217.cms||---
April 17, 2020||Kanpur||NCC cadets help policemen in enforcement of lockdown norms||Jhansi: As many as 300 NCC cadets from over a dozen degree colleges across the district have come forward to help the local administration in enforcing the ongoing lockdown in their respective areas. All these cadets are from 36 and 56 UP battalion. Around 75 cadets were seen in the city in small groups at various crossings on Thursday persuading the people to stay at home and not to loiter around aimlessly. A large number of the cadets on field were girls. Assuring the battalion’s full cooperation, col Aman Yadav, CO 56 Battalion NCC said that all the cadets were willing and committed to ensure that the lockdown is implemented in its letter and spirit. As per professor Sunil Kabia, associate NCC officer, the cadets will work on a daily basis from 10 am to 2 pm in coordination with the police who will guide them for day-to-day assignments. “They will work on four levels such as enforcing total lockdown, ensuring maintenance of social distancing in public places such as markets and banks, rebutting fake news and helping to identify poor and elderly people so that relief packages could be sent to them,” said professor Kabia. Officer Hitika Yadav, who is leading the girl cadets said, “My friends and I are determined to serve the needy during such extreme circumstances as this is what we have been taught during the course.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kanpur/ncc-cadets-help-policemen-in-enforcement-of-lockdown-norms/articleshow/75188946.cms||---
April 17, 2020||Chennai||Madras high court allows parties, others to distribute relief material, but with riders||CHENNAI: The Madras high court on Thursday gave conditional permission for political parties and other organisations for direct distribution of relief material, striking a balance between a Tamil Nadu government order banning such Good Samaritanism and the DMK’s opposition to the ban. Parties and organisations must inform concerned authorities at least 48 hours in advance, and there should not be more than three organisers, besides the vehicle driver, distributing the material to those in need, said a division bench of Justices R Subbiah and R Pongiappan. Though the state’s restrictions on direct distribution are not arbitrary, its insistence that relief material should be handed over to government authorities is not well-founded, said the judges. There shall not be any distribution of food in areas earmarked as hotspots, they added. Three PILs – one each by the DMK, MDMK general secretary Vaiko and advocate A P Suryaprakasam – were filed against the government’s order. The judges said: “... It is very much essential that the organisers or beneficiaries must strictly adhere to certain norms...” The court made it clear that preparation and distribution of food have to be conducted within the zone in respect of corporation limits, and within police station limits in rural areas. It added that organisations shall strictly ensure that social distancing is followed during distribution of food. The court said it is open to authorities to impose other reasonable conditions to ensure that the distribution is done without deviation of norms. The HC added that the place where food is likely to be served must be sanitised by authorities concerned prior to distribution and the state can deploy police to regulate the same.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/court-allows-parties-others-to-distribute-relief-but-with-riders/articleshow/75189417.cms||Suresh Kumar
April 17, 2020||Ahmedabad||No Covid-19 impact on sowing in Gujarat, up by 35%||AHMEDABAD: Farming activity is apparently going full swing in times of corornavirus lockdown. Data released by the state agriculture department revealed that Gujarat has recorded a 35% rise in summer crop sowing till April 13, the highest since 2016. Here, Saurashtra has reported the highest spike of 165% in the sowing of summer crops. Across the state, summer crop sowing took place in 8.91 lakh hectare area as compared to 6.62 lakh hectare last year. In Saurashtra, the area under summer crop sowing has jumped from 86,200 hectares to 2.34 lakh hectare. Summer crops mainly include paddy, bajra, maize, mung, urad, groundnut, sesame, vegetables and cattle fodder. The sowing data has come as a heartening departure from the depressing forecasts of agriculture sector likely to suffer setback due to labour shortage. Farmers say that lockdown has proved to be a blessing in disguise as young hands of the families who had migrated to cities mainly Surat have come back to village following the industrial shutdown. Adequate availability of water following a robust monsoon has aided the sowing. Lalit Mehta, a farmer from Amreli says his three sons engaged in diamond polishing work have more than made up for the agri-labour shortage. “As there is no other work, the whole family got working in the farm and have completed sowing in 10 bighas of land with the help of locals," said Patel. Kishan Ghyanshyam, a farmer from Lathi said that good availability of the water in the dams. has prompted many farmers to take summer crop. Experts say that 208 dams barring Sardar Sarovar dam have 122% more water as compared to last year while 139 dams in Saurashtra have 347% more water. Agriculture department officials said cash crops like sesame have recorded 200% rise in sowing while sowing of mung, udad and groundnut has doubled as compared to last year. Summer sowing of onion has also recorded an impressive jump of nearly 300% as 7,610 hectare land is under sowing as compared to 1,811 hectare area in 2019 but this year it is in 7610 hectares.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/no-covid-19-impact-on-sowing-in-guj-up-by-35/articleshow/75189414.cms||Himanshu Kaushik
April 17, 2020||Kolkata||Nurse, new mother test positive at NRS||Kolkata: A woman, who gave birth to a baby at NRS Medical College and Hospital (NRSMCH), has tested positive for Covid-19. The patient has been shifted to MR Bangur Hospital (MRBH) and is being treated at the hospital designated for Covid-19. Around 90 healthcare workers, including at least 30 doctors and 40 nurses, have been kept under quarantine. A nurse attached with the hospital’s CCU has also tested positive for the virus. According to sources in the hospital, the nurse was under quarantine since April 4 after the death of a patient in the ICU who later turned out to be a Covid-19 patient According to sources at NRSMCH, the woman from Entally was admitted to hospital’s gynaecology ward on April 12 and she delivered a child the next day. The patient started complaining of symptoms, including respiratory distress, cold and fever after the delivery. Suspecting the infection, doctors sent her swab samples for testing. Report confirming Covid-19 positive came to the hospital on Wednesday night. The hospital authority has sealed the labour room and the ward, where the woman was admitted, to disinfect them. Three other women, who were admitted to the same ward, have been shifted to another ward. Doctors said their samples too would be sent if they show any symptom. This is the second time a ward in NRSMCH is being sealed. On April 4, the male medicine ward and the CCU were shut for a few days after a 35-year-old man died at the CCU after being shifted from the medicine ward. His report came after his death. About 84 healthcare workers, including 35 doctors, are still under quarantine after this incident. The nurse who tested positive was among the 84. “This time we have identified at least 90 healthcare providers who have either tended to the patient directly or had worked in that ward. Their swab samples will be tested,” said a source in the hospital. Only on April 13, another woman who gave birth at Medical College Hospital, too had tested positive after the child birth. But doctors at the hospital on College Street claimed that swab samples from none of those who were involved in the care of that patient have been collected for test. On Wednesday, a post graduate trainee at Calcutta National Medical College and Hospital was found infected. The doctor had worked in the medicine ward and the emergency unit of the hospital. With increasing number of frontline healthcare workers getting infected, various doctors’ organisations, including Joint Platform of Doctors and Medical Service Centre (MSC), have written to the government raising concerns and suggesting ways to minimise risk. “The state health department itself had come out with a guideline after the first incident in NRS on minimising the risk for healthcare workers. But are these being followed by hospitals?” asked an official of MSC.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/nurse-new-mother-test-positive-at-nrs/articleshow/75189401.cms||Sumati Yengkhom
April 17, 2020||Mysuru||Hate messages hit supply of veggies, fruits||Mysuru: Social media forwards blaming a religion for the spurt in Covid-19 cases and false allegations of spitting on fruits and vegetables are affecting the rural economy. Farmers are destroying watermelons, oranges, mangoes, flowers and vegetables rotting on farms due to poor demand following the lockdown. Community leaders said social media forwards and enmity created between religious groups have resulted in a drop in demand for fruits and vegetables as vendors and middlemen who bring produce to the market are keeping away from villages for fear of being attacked. It’s mostly Muslim vendors who generally go to farmers in the rural areas to buy vegetables and fruits and supply them to cities within and outside the state. This year, due to hate messages against Muslims, these vendors are afraid of visiting villages, disrupting the supply chain. According to Karnataka Rajya Raitha Sangha (KRRS) and Hasiru Sene state president Badagalapura Nagendra, around 75% of vendors are Muslims. “The relationship between farmers and vendors is unique and based on trust. Muslim vendors play a key role in ensuring a market for farm products and fruits. After the community was blamed for the coronavirus outbreak, the vendors are not visiting villages. The produce is rotting in the fields,” he said. Raitha Sangha Mysuru district unit president TR Vidyasagar said farmers and suppliers/middlemen had been like brothers. “But due to this fear, these middlemen/vendors are not coming and farmers are badly hit. The government should intervene to resolve this crisis,” he said. P Marankaiah, Raitha Sangha taluk unit president and resident of Kenchalagud in Mysuru taluk, said Muslims pushcart vendors are being viewed suspiciously. Kurubur Shantha Kumar, president, Farmers Producers Cooperative Ltd, said 90% of pushcart vegetables and fruits vendors are Muslims. “They’re not turning up due to various reasons and it is affecting producers,” he said. Shantha Kumar said: “The fear created against Muslims has disrupted the supply of fruits and vegetables. The fertiliser supply to villages has also stopped as the majority of drivers of goods vehicles are Muslims and they’re afraid of being attacked. The government should look into this issue and ensure that fertilisers are supplied without any glitch.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mysuru/hate-messages-hit-supply-of-veggies-fruits/articleshow/75188462.cms||---
April 17, 2020||Hubballi||Dharwad police strictly enforce lockdown||Dharwad: Following the central government declaring Dharwad district a Covid-19 hotspot, the police stepped up measures to implement the lockdown stringently on Thursday. The central government, on Wednesday night, included Dharwad district in the list of Covid-19 hotspots, and asked the state government to strictly enforce the lockdown. The decision to declare Dharwad district a hotspot came after six people in the district tested positive for Covid-19. A 33-year-old man, who was identified as P-21, from Hosayallapur in Dharwad, who tested positive for Covid-19, and was quarantined, has since recovered, and was discharged. However, another person in Mullan Oni in Hubballi, and four of his primary contacts, who tested positive, subsequently, have been quarantined. Senior police officers and the deputy commissioner had a video conference, on Wednesday evening, with home minister Basavaraj Bommai, and it was decided during the course of the conference, that the implementation of the lockdown in the district should be stringent. Accordingly, the police swung into action and chased away people who were loitering about the streets, and those who were moving around on their two-wheelers. On Thursday morning, police seized several two-wheelers, and made some people who had ventured out, do sit-ups. The police stopped those moving around in cars and checked their documents, and warned the occupants not to travel unnecessarily. The entry of vehicles was barred on the main roads and interior roads, and those violating the lockdown were caned. The police, headed by commissioner R Dileep, are warning the people through the public address system, to stay indoors. “However, some youths were found wandering around unnecessarily, and we had to to send them back home,”said a police officer. “The instructions are clear: Stay home until further orders, or come out and face police action,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hubballi/dharwad-police-strictly-enforce-lockdown/articleshow/75187235.cms||---
April 17, 2020||Ahmedabad||Now, two more wholesale veggie markets for retailers||Ahmedabad: The Ahmedabad Agriculture Produce Market Committee (APMC) has decided to open two more whole sale markets — one at Geeta Mandir ST bus station and the other at Gurjari Bazar on Sabarmati Riverfront.The two new markets will be exclusively for the retailer vegetable vendors. They will operate between 4 am and 10 am. Deepak Patel, Ahmedabad APMC secretary, said that the AMC officials would manage the arrangements at these two places.Patel said that the APMC had decided to have 20 wholesale agents, each one of them would be going at both the places to sell vegetable as per the demand of the traders. The Jetalpur APMC would be exclusively for the farmers and the nearby retailers, he said.The traders of Jetalpur APMC had closed trading after they realised that there was no social distancing being maintained, and even retailers from the Covid-19 infected areas were coming to the market. The worst nightmare came true when one of the traders from Kalupur who was a regular visitor tested Covid-19 positive.The officials claimed that at Jetalpur APMC, strict precautions were being implemented as the trading resumed from Wednesday night. The officials claimed that there was less crowding on the first day. The APMC in a detailed guideline has stated that the traders will have to coordinate with their farmers and ensure that they get vehicles from each village. The APMC has banned the goods transportation on three-wheelers, two-wheelers and on foot.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/now-two-more-wholesale-veggie-markets-for-retailers/articleshow/75189431.cms||---
April 17, 2020||Jaipur||Rajasthan: If you don’t wear mask, stores can deny goods||JAIPUR: Next time you go shopping, remember to wear a mask. If you don’t, the shopkeeper will legally have the right to deny you goods. This is one of the new regulation that has been issued by the state home department to contain the spread of Covid-19. “No sale shall be made by the shopkeeper to any customer who is not wearing a mask,” the order states. This is one of the many guidelines issued by the state as part of the modified lockdown from April 20 to May 3 in accordance with rules issued by the Union ministry of home affairs. The order also says, “Not more than two customers in a small shop and not more than five customers in large shop shall be permitted at any point of time. Others have to wait for their turn in a queue outside, with social distancing ensured.” “Emphasis shall remain on home delivery. Shops permitted should ensure they have home delivery arrangements and may seek assistance from the district administration. An App developed by DOIT and launched should be used. Visits to shops should be minimal,” it further added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/if-you-dont-wear-mask-stores-can-deny-goods/articleshow/75190230.cms||---
April 17, 2020||Jaipur||Ramp up testing to 10,000 per day in Rajasthan: CM Ashok Gehlot||JAIPUR: Chief minister Ashok Gehlot on Thursday said the state government plans to ramp up testing to 10,000 per day in the next few days. He said the state had come a long way in testing for Covid-19. “Earlier, samples were sent to Delhi and Pune for tests. Now it is being in Rajasthan. Around 4,000 tests are conducted daily in the state which will be increased to 10,000 in the coming days,” he said. The chief minister, who was interacting with the media, said the government had roped in the private sector for conducting testing. He said tests were the only way to stem the spread of the virus as many patients who tested positive showed no explicit symptoms. Gehlot said unless tests are conducted, we cannot be sure corona patients are in our midst. He said around 26,000 teams were working in the state for screening potential patients and they had covered a large portion of the population. The chief minister said major relief for the state was that most of the patients who tested positive were below the age group of 60 years. “So ventilators and ICUs are not under pressure,” he added. Gehlot said the situation Ramganj would take some time to stabilise as the area is densely populated. Besides, people resisted quarantine initially due to some misunderstanding as they thought they were being arrested. He said now people are agreeing for quarantine and once all positive cases are identified and segregated, the situation would start improving there. He said the labourers from other states stranded here and in other states would get some relief once the lockdown relaxation kicks off from April 20. He said the Arvind Mayaram committee report to bring the economy of the state back on track is consulting various economists and the report would come handy for the state to chart a new course for revival of the finance of the state. The chief minister said 1,130 licenses were so far issued to mill owners for direct purchase of grains from farmers. This is in addition to the agriculture markets and cooperative societies permitted to buy Rabi crops at MSP. He expressed hope that this would ensure remunerative price to farmers for their produce.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/ramp-up-testing-to-10000-per-day-in-state-cm/articleshow/75190221.cms||Joychen Joseph
April 17, 2020||Coimbatore||Man held with raw materials to brew 25 litres of illicit arrack||Coimbatore: A 44-year-old farmer was jailed on Thursday for making illicit arrack at Pathi Gounder Thottam at Palathurai on the outskirts of the city. Police have seized raw materials to make 25 litres of illicit arrack from him. An investigation officer identified the accused as V Ganeshan, of Palathurai near Madukkarai. Pointing out that Ganeshan had taken five acres of agricultural land on lease for three years from a woman in Singanallur, the officer said the accused was using the land to make illicit arrack. “He found people are ready to buy liquor at exorbitant prices as all the Tasmac outlets and bars, and private bars are closed due to lockdown. He was taken up by the prospect of making some quick buck and started making illicit arrack,” the officer said. However, based on a tip, Prohibition Enforcement Wing (PEW) police inspector K Baskaran, Perur police sub-inspector Thirumalaisamy and team raided his farmland on Wednesday night and arrested him after they recovered raw materials to make illicit arrack. Preliminary inquiry revealed that he had already made five litres of illicit arrack a week ago. “He was selling one litre at Rs 3,000. He had kept 700ml in a bottle for his own use and we have seized that also,” the officer said. Ganeshan was booked under various sections of Tamil Nadu Prohibition Act and produced before a judicial magistrate on Thursday. Later, he was lodged in Avinashi sub-jail under judicial custody.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/man-held-with-raw-materials-to-brew-25-litres-of-illicit-arrack/articleshow/75189422.cms||---
April 17, 2020||Coimbatore||32 coaches converted to isolation wards||Coimbatore: Besides sending five coaches to the coach repair workshop in Perambur for conversion into quarantine hubs, Southern Railway engineers in the city converted 32 coaches into the hubs last week. Equipped with all the basic requirement of a hospital ward, the coaches can house anywhere between 250 to 500 patients for 14 days. While this increases the number of beds available for Covid-19 patients, the health department is confident that at least in Coimbatore, hospital beds will suffice during the crisis. The coach depot in Coimbatore currently has 20 spanking new converted coaches ready for use any minute. The coaches, with nine bays each, can house between 160 and 320 patients. They are equipped with basic ward requirements like bathrooms, segregated dustbins with one for biomedical waste, clamps for oxygen cylinders, holders to place saline bottles and mosquito nets, fans, charging points for mobile phones and laptops and hooks to hang clothes. It took the engineers nine days to convert the second-class coaches. The efforts included converting one of the four lavatories in the coaches to a proper bathroom. “We had to raise the height of the tap so that a 20-litre bucket can be placed underneath it to collect water. We also closed the squatting pans,” said a railway official. “The gravity-fed taps were replaced with dental taps that have long handles, which can be operated using wrists,” he said. Additional facilities included placing three bins for waste segregation outside the bathroom, fitting plastic curtains between the bays for privacy, placing metal bottle holders instead of the nylon holders, fire extinguisher outside the bathroom and six hooks in each bay for hanging clothes. “The challenge was procuring the material when shops were closed and vehicle movement was restricted. We had a difficult time to source mosquito nets” said another official. Of the 32 coaches converted in Coimbatore, 12 were sent to Erode. Each coach has nine bays, with one reserved for doctors and nurses.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/32-coaches-converted-to-isolation-wards/articleshow/75189438.cms||---
April 17, 2020||Thiruvananthapuram||Sree Chitra to mentor more testing facilities||Thiruvananthapuram: With the Centre expecting a surge in Covid-19 cases in the country post-lockdown, the Union government is planning to increase the number of testing centres in the country to 1,500 by next month. To achieve the target, Union health ministry has authorised premier institutes to mentor testing facilities in their respective regions. The Sree Chitra Institute of Medical Sciences and Technology has been asked to mentor 30 testing centres in Kerala and one in Andaman and Nicobar Islands. Dr Asha Kishore, director of the institute, said there is a format for applying, which includes a check list of facility, equipment, expertise, etc. “The institute can assess the facilities online and get a few trials done and the nodal officer will then certify the centre as a testing lab if satisfied,” said All copies will have to be sent to Indian Council of Medical Research for double checking and the sites will be linked to ICMR and state networks. The state will provide personal protective equipment and reagents, among other things. The private medical colleges which are certified by National Accreditation Board for Testing and Calibration Laboratories can get approval if all requirements are met, Kishore added. The Union health ministry has decided to increase the capacity for Covid-19 testing in all government and private medical colleges of the country on an urgent basis for ramping up testing facilities across the country by mid-May. The state health secretaries and principals of medical colleges in all states have been informed of their mentor institutes, mostly AIIMS and medical centres of excellence. For Kerala and Andaman Nicobar, ICMR has designated SCTIMST.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/thiruvananthapuram/sree-chitra-to-mentor-more-testing-facilities/articleshow/75187263.cms||---
April 17, 2020||Chennai||Rajasthan and Uttar Pradesh appoint officers from Tamil Nadu to help workers stuck here||CHENNAI: Tamil civil servants in other states have come to the rescue of guest workers stranded in Tamil Nadu by bridging the language barrier. The governments of Rajasthan and Uttar Pradesh have appointed IAS and IPS officers hailing from Tamil Nadu nodal officers to help stranded workers. Uttar Pradesh additional director general of police LV Antony Dev Kumar, who has been appointed a nodal police officer for coordinating with guest workers from UP, said officials received 730 calls on Tuesday seeking assistance for 13,000 people. “Majority of the calls were from Chennai, Coimbatore and Tirupur seeking transportation from Tamil Nadu to Uttar Pradesh. There were also calls regarding issues faced by guest workers in accessing food, medicine and shelter,” he said. Kumar and his team follow up on these requests with contacts in the TN district authorities so help can reach those in need. “For instance, we contacted the Greater Chennai Police to assist a hotel employee,” said Kumar, a native of Tirunelveli. An estimated 1.5 lakh guest workers from Uttar Pradesh are spread across Tamil Nadu employed in various sectors. The Uttar Pradesh government appointed another IAS officer of Tamil Nadu origin as nodal officer, whose contact information has been released by the state government. Uttar Pradesh additional chief secretary (home) Avinish K. Awasthi told TOI that the state had sent a letter to the TN government informing officials of the two officers and their role. “The officers are meant for coordination,” he said. Similarly, the Rajasthan government has appointed senior IAS officer R Venkateswaran the nodal officer for helping people from the state working in Tamil Nadu. “We received about 100 calls on Tuesday evening and most sought transportation to Rajasthan,” said Venkateswaran, the additional chief secretary who is a native of Madurai.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/raj-up-appoint-officers-from-tn-to-help-workers-stuck-here/articleshow/75189458.cms||Yogesh Kabirdoss
April 17, 2020||Chennai||Chennai cops don new avatar to fight an invisible enemy||CHENNAI: They break into a jig, pen a song, wield a microphone, and do a dubsmash video to show that behind their hardened facade Tamil Nadu police are truly ‘Ungal Nanban’ (Your Friend). For the men in khaki fighting the Covid-19 war on the streets, it’s not just their brawn that’s helping them keep violators in check, but also their brain that's helping them spread the coronavirus message in innovative ways. Sample this: A team led by joint commissioners S Magheshwari and R Sudhakar prepared a full-length corona awareness video with real personnel acting in it. While policemen in Trichy put their singing talent to use by crooning to the lyrics penned by their colleagues, assistant commissioner Jaya Singh engaged popular ‘gana singer’ Bala to belt out a number in the Chennai lingo. Though it might look a bit odd to start with, it’s like an acquired taste; it grows on you — if their social media hits are anything to go by. In fact, the idea seems to have had a pan-Indian appeal as several dubsmash videos based on different virus themes such as social distancing, washing hands, using masks, staying at home and helping police have come out in several regional languages across the country. Suddenly, the job profile of police personnel seems to have undergone a sea change. While deputy commissioner H Jayalakshmi performed aerobics on Kamarajar Salai, an eight-member team led by constable Venkatesh, a B Tech chemical engineer, prepared sanitizers for his department’s use, and Villivakkam police inspector Rajeesh Babu became a talking point with his innovative coronavirus helmet. As Semmancherry police personnel pooled in money to rope in artists to turn the Sholinganallur junction into a canvas for coronavirus paintings, Neelankarai police inspector S Saravanan gifted packs of rice, dal, oil, and vegetables worth Rs 500 to 100 families every day for a week. Sastri Nagar police inspector Palavesham, meanwhile, provided food and grocery to migrant workers employed as balloon sellers on Elliots Beach. Police DGP J K Tripathy, who appreciated the “dedicated and distinguished force”, said, “We gave policemen a free hand to be more creative to prevent the spread of coronavirus infection.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/cops-don-new-avatar-to-fight-an-invisible-enemy/articleshow/75190239.cms||A Selvaraj
April 17, 2020||Ahmedabad||Leopard caught in toilet at Ayurveda college in Gandhinagar||AHMEDABAD: For the second time in 18 months, a leopard was encountered in Gandhinagar, this time at the Government Ayurveda College in Kolawada. According to the in-charge conservator of forests, Kasuldev Ramesh, a sanitation worker, Aruna Sharma, saw something suspicious in the ladies toilet block. She realised it was a large animal when she saw its tail. She immediately closed the door of the toilet block and informed the authorities. Forest department staff rushed to the spot and confirmed that a leopard was in the toilet block. On November 5, 2018, CCTV footage of the secretariat gate showed a leopard entering the complex. The leopard was caged about 13 hours later. Ramesh said a team from the Gujarat Ecological Education and Research (GEER) Foundation and its director R D Khamboj rushed to the spot. The animal was tranquilized and then taken to the GEER Foundation campus. Dr Ankit Patel, who conducted the rescue operation, said the animal is a three to four-year-old male and is very aggressive. It has been kept in isolation and will be scanned on Friday to know if this animal has a chip implanted and whether it had been caged earlier. A senior forest officials said that in January the department had got reports of leopard pug marks on the outskirts of Dolarana Vasna village, where a leopard had been rescued in 2019 as well. There is thick vegetation near the village and the leopards probably move about in the Sabarmati river ravines.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/leopard-caught-in-toilet-at-ayurveda-college/articleshow/75189452.cms||---
April 17, 2020||Udaipur||Rajasthan: Cops on boats check entry through waterways||UDAIPUR: Alarmed by the increasing number of positive cases in the neighbouring Banswara district, the police and district administration in Dungarpur have beefed up security measures and are making all efforts to restrict public entry from the bordering hotspots. In this chain, patrol boats have been launched in Kadana dam, the backwater of Mahi river that joins Kushalgarh and Anantpuri of Banswara, which shares borders with Dungarpur. “We are patrolling the river shores and will also be sticking to our strategy of engaging with people and asking them why they are moving around during the lockdown. The fishing activities have been completely prohibited here and we have sealed the boats. We have hired two boats from the fishermen which are being used in three shifts throughout the day to keep a watch,” Dungarpur SP Jai Yadav told TOI. Two cops each on two boats are working round the clock in three shifts of eight hours each and patrolling a stretch of around 10-15km on water. Besides the patrol boats, the police have also constituted ‘gram rakshak dals’ and ‘police mitras’, who are volunteers assisting the cops to ensure lockdown rules are being followed effectively. “There are some 400 police mitras deployed at various checkpoints along with the police guards. They join the duty in the morning and stay throughout the day. They have been granted relaxation to go home for lunch and refreshments but most of them stay with the police the entire day and even have food with the cops. They do not let anyone roam around unnecessarily in the area. Police mitras have been given T-shirts so that they may be identified,” Yadav said. Besides them, every one of our villages has some gram rakshaks. In all, 476 gram rakshaks are there, who undertake night duty to safeguard their respective areas. Hathai village under Dovada police station was the first to have such gram rakshaks in their village and inspired by its success, the model has been applied for the entire district which is a great hit now, the SP said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/udaipur/cops-on-boats-check-entry-through-waterways/articleshow/75190236.cms||---
April 17, 2020||Jaipur||This Madhya Pradesh couple wants child to be born at home, not in shelter in Jaipur||JAIPUR: He is 23 years old and his pregnant wife 20. This Madhya Pradesh couple has been stuck in a shelter home here for more than three weeks. They are desperate to go home, but can’t. The little ray of hope of returning to their village on April 14 was dashed after the Centre extended the lockdown till May 3. The six-month-old pregnant woman now has just one prayer — a healthy kid. They are not the only ones who want to get back home. Like them there are all the 143 migrant labourers who are currently lodged at a shelter home in Adarsh Nagar Secondary Higher School. They have appealed to the government to make special arrangements for them so that they could reach their home states. Most of these workers are from Uttar Pradesh, Madhya Pradesh and Gujarat. They were stopped by police on March 27 while they were on way to their respective states on foot through the state capital. They all gathered in the front yard of the school on April 14 hoping they would be allowed to leave. However, Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s announcement on the same day to extend the lockdown till May 3 ruined their hopes. Later, the administration and school teachers calmed them down. Though they are being provided with food and other basic necessities, they aren’t willing to stay back even for a day. “We understand that we have been kept here for good, but we want to go home. My wife gets worried at times, feels very weak. She doesn’t get sound sleep due to the rising temperature. Please arrange a vehicle or an ambulance for us. We will pay for it,” said Ramji Lal, a golgappa seller in Kotputli. He is from Arora village in Madhya Pradesh. “We were quite excited and hopeful of returning home on April 14. Sadly, it didn’t happen,” he added. His six-month pregnant wife echoed him. “It’s hot out here in the shelter camp. We just need to get back home. It is very stifling here,” said Laxmi. The couple is expecting in July. “We just want a healthy baby. We know that the virus is a killing machine. Our only prayer is that the kid should not be affected by it,” Laxmi added. Ramji came here three years ago and got engaged in golgappa business along with other members of the extended family. In fact, many of the family members of the extended family are also stuck in the shelter camp. “Once I reach home, I will never return. I will do farming or majdoori in my village to survive. I want my child to grow in an environment free of the virus scare,’ he said, who earned Rs 8,000-10,000 per month selling golgappas.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/this-madhya-pradesh-couple-wants-child-to-be-born-at-home-not-in-shelter-in-jaipur/articleshow/75190233.cms||Sidhartha Dutta
April 17, 2020||Nagpur||15,019 mosquito-breeding spots add to NMC worries||Nagpur: The Nagpur Municipal Corporation’s health department has identified a staggering 15,019 mosquito-breeding grounds in the city. Of these, 9,880 breeding spots have been identified on open plots. This is a cause for concern as the city is already battling the outbreak of coronavirus. As per the health department’s latest survey, Hanuman Nagar zone with 8,155 places reported the highest number of breeding spots of which 7,521 are on open plots. It was followed by Mangalwari zone with 2,132 spots, including 952 on open plots. Ashi Nagar zone stood third with 1,285 breeding spots. The congested Satranjipura zone, now infamous for the Covid-19 death from the area, is comparatively one of the safest zones in the city with only 222 breeding spots. Open plots here have turned ideal breeding grounds for mosquitoes. The survey identified 78 open plots as mosquito-breeding grounds. As per the survey, there are 472 hotspots in Laxmi Nagar zone, Dharampeth zone (511), Dhantoli zone (510), Nehru Nagar zone (429), Gandhibagh zone (766) and Lakadganj zone (537). The survey also identified 1,674 permanent breeding spots in the city and the highest 799 spots were found in Mangalwari zone. About 970 cattle sheds in the city limits too have become a mosquito-breeding hotspot. Even city’s gardens were not safe from mosquitoes as the survey identified 121 breeding spots in city’s lung spaces. Moreover, 564 abandoned wells, which were allegedly converted into dumping ground, too have turned into breeding spots, the survey revealed. Though NMC teams from malaria-filaria department claimed to have launched a drive to destroy these breeding spots, residents junked the claim. Many localities across the city are haunted by mosquitoes. Drainages and nullahs have become breeding place for mosquitoes, said residents. The citizens have demanded continuous fogging and spraying especially near open plots, parks, nullahs etc. A senior official from the malaria-filaria department claimed that the department has been regularly urging citizens to be vigilant against breeding of mosquito larvae in their respective areas. Spraying is also being carried out on regular basis, he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/15019-mosquito-breeding-spots-add-to-nmc-worries/articleshow/75189495.cms||Proshun Chakraborty
April 17, 2020||Kolkata||Kolkata: 11,300 vehicle owners prosecuted for flouting lockdown in past three weeks||KOLKATA: Think of the consequences before you take out your vehicle for a spin without any urgency during the lockdown. From checking the authenticity of e-pass to examining the reason for going out during the lockdown, cops are keeping lens on the motorists and bikers they spot in roads. If there is any improper answer, cops are seizing the vehicles and prosecuting the owners. Total 11,300 vehicle owners have been prosecuted for flouting the lockdown in the past three weeks while 1,549 of the vehicles were seized in the past six days, said the joint CP (traffic) Santosh Pandey. “It acts as a big deterrent. Empty roads are leading to breaking of the lockdown,” said a top cop. Almost 40% of the seized vehicles are four-wheelers, unlike the normal days when two-wheelers make up more than two-third of the vehicles impounded by the police. The 11,300 vehicle owners are among 17,000 people arrested so far in the city for violating the lockdown. Unlike the Motor Vehicles Act, cops don’t need to show the seized vehicle in court during the lockdown and this has helped them step up the drive against the violators. “Police stations are not getting clogged as the vehicles are being released once the rider or driver gets bail. This is allowing us to make maximum seizures,” said a police officer. Police said that once caught, people come up with queer excuses. “A man kept arguing with me at Esplanade that his uncle was a government servant and that he had the right to use his uncle's car, which had a valid e-pass stuck on the windscreen. A woman near Kasba told us that his mother-in-law was making her feel claustrophobic at home, so she came out of home to get some fresh air,” said the police officer. However, cops are cracking down on the violation in two ways. The first method is to prosecute the offender under IPC section 188.  For other serious violations like fake e-pass or dangerous driving, cops are slapping the offenders with harsher IPC and MV Act. Cops from the detective department are using an app that can crosscheck the QR code on the e-pass issued by Lalbazar. If the code on the app does not match with that on the car, cops have the power to seize the vehicle at the spot and lodge the complaint of cheating and forgery.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/11300-vehicle-owners-prosecuted-for-flouting-lockdown-in-past-three-weeks/articleshow/75189491.cms||Dwaipayan Ghosh
April 17, 2020||Business||Autodesk to buy stake in Bengaluru-based Aurigo||Bengaluru: Autodesk will take a minority stake in Aurigo Software, a Bengaluru and Austin based venture that provides cloud-based software to plan, build and maintain capital assets and infrastructure projects. Aurigo was founded in 2003 by Balaji Sreenivasan, a Bengaluru boy who did engineering from NIT, Trichy. The company – which has 350 employees, of which 260 are in Bengaluru – is profitable and, till the Autodesk investment, had been self-funded. But the Autodesk tie-up is not as much for funds as for strategic reasons. Sreenivasan, who spoke to TOI from Austin where he is based, said Aurigo and Autodesk together would be able to provide owners of infrastructure projects with a single end-to-end technology platform for design – which is Autodesk’s expertise – planning, procurement, construction and operations of infrastructure, all of which are Aurigo’s strengths. The $3-billion Autodesk is one of the global leaders in computer-aided design (CAD) software, used by architects, engineers, and structural designers to design and model buildings and other structures. Aurigo’s customers are mostly US and Canadian state agencies that build highways and water facilities, including the Ontario ministry of transportation, the transportation departments of Massachusetts, Nevada, Oregon, Iowa and Utah, the Tampa Bay Water, and numerous city authorities, including Houston’s public works department, the largest public works organisation in the US. The company says its software is being used in over $300 billion of projects under management. Aurigo competes with e-Builder, which was acquired by Trimble in 2018 for $500 million, and Procore, which was valued at $3 billion in its last round of funding in 2018. Sreenivasan says when state agencies use Aurigo software to do everything from capital planning and calling for bids from contractors to monitoring the execution and making payments, there’s an average cost saving of 5%. That’s huge, considering the projects are multi-million/billion dollar projects. “The software provides a lot more visibility into every aspect of the project, and it makes it far easier to maintain timelines,” Sreenivasan says. He declined to mention Aurigo’s revenues, but said it grew by 80% in 2019. Autodesk will also give Aurigo a lot more reach. “All their customers will need to buy from us. We will now go beyond the US and Canada to other continents,” Sreenivasan says. The two companies believe governments everywhere will focus a lot more on infrastructure in the aftermath of the Covid-19 pandemic, and that would mean big demand for their software. Andrew Anagnost, CEO of Autodesk, said in a release: “When the industry gets back to building again, real estate developers and capital owners will have in their toolboxes the most sophisticated, integrated platform to meet their design, procurement, construction and operating needs.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/autodesk-to-buy-stake-in-bengaluru-based-aurigo/articleshow/75190253.cms||---
April 17, 2020||Hyderabad||Chess wizard Viswanathan Anand joined WWF as ambassador||HYDERABAD: Chess legend and champion Viswanathan Anand, who is known to bamboozle his opponents on the board, has joined WWF (World Wildlife Fund) India as its ambassador for an environmental education programme. He will support wildlife conservation and educate children in the city and across the country on issues related to the environment. Talking about his association with WWF India, Anand, said, “Our children deserve a better, greener and more sustainable world than the one we are living in today and it is our responsibility as parents and elders to show them the way. I look forward to an enriching and progressive association with WWF India.” WWF India’s environment education programme is as old as the organisation itself, starting way back in 1976 with the Nature Clubs of India (NCI) initiative.“This programme will educate children across Telangana about the importance of environment and the need to protect it. WWF India is celebrating its 50 years of conservation in India and we are delighted to see Anand lend his support to protection of the environment,” said Farida Tampal, state director, WWF-India Hyderabad office.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/chess-wizard-anand-wwf-ambassador/articleshow/75189467.cms||---
April 17, 2020||Hyderabad||In 50 years, Hyderabad will be in hot and harsh climate zone: NG||HYDERABAD: In another 50 years, Hyderabad will feel like Saudi Arabia’s Al Baha city in terms of heat and other climatic conditions. Also, the City of Nizams is likely to fall in a tropical savanna zone characterised by intense sun all round the year with the monthly average temperature hovering above 18 degrees. A research projection on future climatic conditions in major cities around the globe in 2070 by National Geographic (NG) warns that weather conditions in Hyderabad will change in the next 50 years, with the city entering a new climate zone. The NG projection also warns of an increase in maximum temperatures during winter and summer, change in rain pattern and increase in the number of days a year over 35°C from 93 days to 167 days. Overall, the projection puts climate vulnerability in Hyderabad as ‘high’ with ‘extreme’ being the highest. ‘Low’ and ‘medium’ are at the other end of the vulnerability scale. “Conditions in Hyderabad will have changed so much that it will be in a new climate zone — a tropical savanna zone,” the NG projection said. The city is at present a semi-arid tropic. In tropical zones, the sun is intense all year round. The climate is nearly always warm and humid -- average temperatures stay above 18°C every month of the year. Seasons are less defined here than in regions closer to the north or south poles. All of the tropics get plenty of rain (more than 1,500 mm each year). “As Hyderabad moves to a tropical savanna zone, the summers are hot and wet. Intense, tropical rains drop most of their water on the region during the summer, but the rest of the year is hot and relatively dry.” Stating that weather and climate patterns around the world are already shifting because of human-caused climate change, NG gave a hint of how climate could be transformed in the city if carbon emissions continue to rise. “One way to get a sense of how Hyderabad might feel in the future is to compare it to some other place that already experiences these climate conditions. By the 2070s, Hyderabad will feel more like Al Baha does today in terms of temperature and precipitation patterns and seasonality,” the study said. In Al Baha, the summers are long, warm, arid and partly cloudy and the winters are cool, dry and mostly clear. The study also warns that maximum temperatures in Hyderabad will increase in winter and summer. “Even small increase in the average temperatures can have major effect on water resources, agriculture, infrastructure, etc,” it said. Referring to extreme heat, the projection said the number of days a year having over 35°C would increase. Precipitation in Hyderabad would increase in winter but decrease in summer. As far as vulnerability is concerned, it said Hyderabad is at high risk from climate change. “Its population is more susceptible to the impact of such changes. India is less able to adapt to climate change than other countries,” it said. Climate change will exacerbate many of the challenges cities experience today. “Already, urban areas find themselves under stress from climate-influenced risks such as rising seas, wildfires, punishing storms, extreme heat waves, diseases, and heat-weakened infrastructure,” the study added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/in-50-yrs-hyd-will-be-in-hot-harsh-climate-zone-ng/articleshow/75189461.cms||Syed Akbar
April 17, 2020||Ahmedabad||Rs 200 crore facility planned to fight epidemics||Ahmedabad: The company credited with making India’s first space suit that was delivered to Isro (Indian Space Research Organisation) in 2015 is planning to set up a ‘Global Safety Centre’ in Vadodara. The proposed centre, to be set up at a project cost of Rs 200 crore, will manufacture personal safety equipment to deal with future pandemics, chemical hazards, and natural disasters. The company, Vadodara-based Sure Safety, is among the first few Indian manufacturers roped in by the Indian government recently to make personal protective equipment (PPE) or coverall kits for Covid-19. So far, Sure Safety has delivered 60,000 PPE kits to the Union health ministry, defence ministry, and the Gujarat government. Before the Covid outbreak, India had been dependent on overseas companies for PPE kits. Over the past month, circumstances have changed as many Indian companies are today manufacturing PPE kits. They are wearable items designed to keep people safe and include masks, safety helmets, eye protection, gloves, and high-visibility clothing items. The company is aiming to triple its existing production capacity in Vadodara with an investment of Rs 50-60 crore given the surge in demand. Also, it has designed a reusable PPE kit and is ready to produce it on a large scale.The reusable PPE kits will mitigate the challenge of biomedical waste generated by the currently available kits.“Using innovation, we have readied what are perhaps India’s first reusable PPE kits. In Europe and the US, companies have recently begun making such kits,” said Nishith Dand, the managing director and founder of Sure Safety. “The waste generated from PPE kits can pose a great risk and we have used ‘air fill technology’ to prepare the new kits.” Looking at the first-mover advantage, Dand said that he is hopeful of soon starting deliveries of these kits to a hospital in Vadodara. Sure Safety, which began as safety solutions provider in 2004, has reached an annual turnover of Rs 80 crore. The company currently has a capacity of producing 60,000 PPE kits per month and it aims to expand it to 1.8 lakh kits in a short period. Talking about the Global Safety Centre, Dand said it is the need of the hour, given the increase in the rate and the impact of such pandemics. “Every couple of years there is an outbreak of a disease,” he said. “First there was bird flu followed by SARS, then came Ebola, Zika, and now Covid.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/rs-200-crore-facility-planned-to-fight-epidemics/articleshow/75189500.cms||Maulik Pathak
April 17, 2020||Jaipur||3 cases in city on Thursday, state count touches 1,131||Jaipur: After 354 Covid-19 cases were reported here in the past week, there is something to cheer about as only three persons were found infected with the virus on Thursday. With these new cases, the total count of Covid-19 positive cases has increased to 486 in the city. According to the health department report, Jaipur reported 30 cases on Wednesday, 83 on Tuesday, 29 on Monday, 40 on Sunday, 80 on Saturday, 53 on Friday and 39 cases on Thursday (last week). The three cases from Jaipur were reported from Ghat Gate area, Top Khana area and Shaitan Singh Colony in Shastri Nagar. “As many as 1,131 persons have been found infected with Covid-19 so far till date and 15 deaths that have been reported till date,” said Rohit Kumar Singh, additional chief secretary (health). However, in the state, 55 persons including three from Jaipur, have tested positive for Covid-19. Among those tested positive for the virus, 11 each are from Jodhpur and Tonk, but highest number of cases on Thursday was reported from Bharatpur, where 23 persons were diagnosed with Covid-19. Three from Jaipur, two each from Jhunjhunu and Kota, while one each in Ajmer, Bikaner and Nagaur. Ajmer reported first case after 15 days. Guidelines were issued on Thursday for testing in Ramganj and other areas of Jaipur. In one kilometer area of containment zone of Ramganj area, those with hypertension, diabetes, asthma, chronic obstructive pulmonary disease, chronic kidney disease, tuberculosis, coronary artery disease, congestive heart failure and cancer will be tested for Covid-19. Also, those who are above 60 years, been in contact with Covid-19 patients, patients with symptoms of influenza-like illness and all healthcare workers giving their services in affected areas.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/3-cases-in-city-on-thursday-state-count-touches-1131/articleshow/75190242.cms||---
April 17, 2020||Jaipur||80% Covid-19 cases in Kota asymptomatic||Kota: Nearly 80% out of total 86 patients tested positive so far in Kota and undergoing treatment in isolation wards of Kota Medical College are asymptomatic with no visible signs of the pandemic. At least 15 of them have tested negative after treatment. Telghar in Bhimganjmandi and Chandraghata in Makabara are the epicentres of the pandemic where 2 persons, including a 50-year-old man and his 70-year-old mother, have died. A 10-year-old boy and a 42-year-old woman from Chandraghata in Makabara area of Kota city on Thursday tested positive taking total number of positives to 86 so far. “Nearly 80% patients in Kota are asymptomatic, specially those who are young,” Dr Manoj Saluja, associate professor, medicine in Kota Government Medical College, said. The conversion rate of patients of young age group from positive to negative is higher than those of the old, he said. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/80-covid-19-cases-in-kota-asymptomatic/articleshow/75190240.cms||---
April 17, 2020||Patna||Two die, seven hurt as truck rams into vehicles on NH-30||PATNA: Two people died and seven others were injured after a speeding 10-wheel truck rammed into several vehicles on NH-30 under the jurisdictions of Gardanbagh and Kankarbagh police stations in Patna on Thursday. According to police, the truck first rammed into an SUV near Dashratha Mor and then hit an e-rickshaw carrying at least six people. The vehicle later hit the cart of a fruit vendor, a police patrolling vehicle and a cyclist. The cyclist, who is yet to be identified, died on the spot, police said. “The injured people were rushed to Patna Medical College and Hospital (PMCH) where one of them died during treatment,” city SP (east) Jitendra Kumar said. SHO of Kankarbagh police station Manoranjan Bharti said the police patrolling vehicle was badly damaged in the accident. “The driver of the truck managed to flee abandoning the vehicle,” he added. Meanwhile, SHO of Gardanibagh police station Arvind Kumar Gautam said efforts were on to identify the cyclist who died in the accident.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/2-die-7-hurt-as-truck-rams-into-vehicles-on-nh/articleshow/75187205.cms||---
April 17, 2020||Goa||RBI cancels Mapusa urban bank’s licence||PANAJI: Pulling the plug on one of Goa’s oldest cooperative banks, the Reserve Bank of India (RBI) on Thursday cancelled Mapusa Urban Co-operative Bank Ltd’s (MUCB) banking licence, paving the way for its liquidation since multiple attempts at the merger route have failed. According to sources, the bank can appeal against the decision and the state government can also intervene. If RBI does decide to appoint an official liquidator, the assets of the bank will be used to pay off the depositors, while the liabilities of the bank will also be settled. “The management will meet and decide the next course of action,” former chairman of the cooperative bank Ramakant Khalap said. Managing director of the bank Shailendra Sawant said that he was not authorised to speak on the issue while chairman Gurudas Natekar did not respond to repeated calls. Under Section 22 (4) of the Banking Regulation Act 1949, RBI can cancel the licence issued to a bank if it fails to adhere to banking norms. RBI imposed financial sanctions on MUCB in July 2015 after the bank’s non performing assets surged and its accumulated losses crossed Rs 100 crore. With the banks capital adequacy ratio falling well below RBI’s 9% stipulation, the banking regulator put an embargo on lending and withdrawal. As the financial curbs were repeatedly extended, the latest being a two-month extension in February 18, depositors and shareholders began to fear that the bank would go into liquidation. MUCB has 24 branches in the State besides the head office in Mapusa and 193 staff members in all. Besides, the bank has 1.19 lakh shareholders and 2.48 lakh depositors. Khalap told TOI that the bank will be able to pay off 90% of the depositors if RBI allows the bank to sell all its assets. The remaining depositors can be repaid as all the account holders are covered by the Deposit Insurance and Credit Guarantee Corporation. Since February 4, each depositor’s account has been insured for up to a sum of Rs 5 lakh. “The bank’s total deposits are Rs 350 crore of which Rs 230 crore is in government securities. Besides this, all the accounts are covered by insurance. We have calculated that we will be able to get Rs 170 crore in insurance, which we can pay to our depositors,” Khalap said. MUCB also has real estate assets with a book value of Rs 90 crore but the market value of the properties could vary depending on market conditions. Facing the ire of depositors and shareholders, the MUCB management tried to merge the bank with Punjab and Maharashtra Cooperative Bank Ltd (PMC). Talks faltered as soon as RBI imposed financial restrictions on PMC Bank. MUCB had made repeated pleas to the state government for share capital, but the BJP-headed government refused to bail out the cooperative bank which has quite a few Congress members on its board. Khalap insisted that the setback is not the end of the road for the bank, which was set up in December 1965. “We can still operate as a cooperative credit society. This does not have to be the end of the road,” Khalap said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/rbi-cancels-mapusa-urban-banks-licence/articleshow/75190557.cms||Newton Sequeira
April 17, 2020||Chennai||Films, desi beer: How gangsters are living it up in the confines of new ‘lock-up’||CHENNAI: This is a ‘lock-up’ period gangsters in the city are not complaining about. With neither police nor rivals to fear, they are spending time with their families in safe houses, catching up on sleep and watching movies, reliving the ‘big’ moments of their careers. Some miss their friends; almost everyone yearns for liquor. “Until now,” an aide of a notorious criminal told TOI, “he was always in a rush. Sleeping very little, fearing he could be targeted by his rivals. Now, he is in deep sleep almost through the day. He has no fear as he knows everyone else is similarly enjoying.” The shortage of liquor, with all Tasmac outlets and bars closed, is a common grouse. Many had stocked up for the lockdown, buying cartons of popular booze brands and hoarding them in secret ‘vaults’, but it soon ran out. Many are exploring other options. Many now engaged in board and card games or new sportsA history-sheeter in Washermenpet said, “We are getting ‘sunda kanji’ (fermented rice beer) and other such stuff and we are happy.” Others say they do not need a drink to get a high. “I am happy these days, repeatedly watching Tamil movies starring Sivaji Ganesan like ‘Parthal Pasi Theerum’ and ‘Pasa Malar’,” says a criminal in north Chennai. Usually found settling quarrels or fighting pitched battles with rivals, many are now engaged in different battles – in board games like ludo and card games like rummy or new sports like blackjack. The bravado also is evident. “I escaped three attempts on my life, suffered severe injuries in other attacks. I can face this coronavirus,” boasted a don in Vyasarpadi. His aide said, “I have never seen annan (elder brother) down with fever even once in the past five years.” Even busy criminals like Kakkathope Balaji, ‘CD’ Mani, ‘Sambo’ Senthil, ‘Bomb’ Saravanan and ‘Culvert’ Ravi remain quiet, either cooped up in hideouts in neighbouring states or ‘living it up’ on the outskirts of the city in other parts of the state, indoors. The law enforcers are happy. A few like ‘Vellai’ Ravi, who escaped after coming out on parole in July 2014 and was nabbed on April 9, Binu Pappachan, who shot to fame after cutting his birthday cake with a machete, and Nagendran are now in jail. But none of the 45-50 active rowdies in the city has been involved in any criminal activity, an officer of the city police’s anti-gangster team said. Police statistics show 11 murders and 16 attempt-to-murder cases were reported from January to March 20, with five murders and eight attempt-to-murder cases in February alone, but none between March 20 and April 15. The 180 check points covering all arterial roads, about 2,700 traffic police personnel and 6,000 law and order and crime wing personnel on regular patrols have ensured peace. Read this story in Bengali||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/gangsters-live-it-up-in-the-confines-of-new-lock-up/articleshow/75190256.cms||A Selvaraj
April 17, 2020||Patna||Bihar logs eight new Covid cases, tally stands at 80||PATNA: Eight new Covid-19 positive cases were reported on Thursday, taking the total number of cases in Bihar to 80. While six patients are from one Munger family with one positive case detected on Wednesday, two new cases were recorded in Buxar of people who had returned from Asansol in West Bengal. According to state health department principal secretary Sanjay Kumar, out of the six cases from Munger, two are males (aged 40 and 38 years) and four are females, including a two-year-old, aged 20, 26 and 55 years. A 60-year-old man from the same family had tested positive for the virus on Wednesday. The two covid positive men from Buxar are aged 35 and 67 years. Overall, out of total 80 cases in Bihar, one has died, 37 have recovered and discharged from hospitals and 42 cases are currently active. “Of all active cases, 75% are asymptomatic," said Sanjay. Meanwhile, the Patna district administration has sealed four health facilities where a Covid-19 positive person had visited for treatment and barricaded its adjoining areas. SDM Sadar Tanai Sultania said, “Forces have been deployed in areas surrounding those health facilities and now door-to-door screening will be done.” The four facilities are located on Bypass Road, Meethapur, Kankarbagh and Khusrupur. A lane of Sultanganj locality has already been sealed where a positive case was reported on Wednesday evening. The State government also began door-to-door screening of people in Covid hotspots and around 8,000 villages on the pattern of polio eradication campaign. This screening aims to cover all households in four Covid-19 hotspot districts — Siwan, Nawada, Nalanda and Begusarai. Health workers along with local civic bodies and local administration are collecting data of travel history and health status of every individual.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/bihar-logs-eight-new-covid-cases-tally-stands-at-80/articleshow/75187268.cms||Sheezan Nezami
April 17, 2020||Hyderabad||Telangana government to HC: Doing enough to push back virus, protect poor||HYDERABAD: The government on Thursday informed the high court steps it is taking adequate steps to fight Covid-19, ensuring supply of medical equipment, essential commodities and punishing lockdown violators. Chief secretary Somesh Kumar informed a bench, comprising Chief Justice Raghavendra Singh Chauhan and Justice T Amarnath Goud, hearing PILs related to Covid-19 on the steps being taken. According to affidavit filed by CS, the state recorded over 33,000 violations, police registered 4,900 FIRs and arrested 17,000 persons. Transport department slapped cases against owners of 75,800 vehicles and imposed Rs 3.8 crore penalties. Police have set up 230 check posts across the state and 43 on inter-state borders. They were ensuring free movement of essential goods and police were booking assault cases on those obstructing implementation of lockdown norms. Criminal cases were booked against 90 persons between March 25 and April 10, CS said. Till April 12, the state received 317 complaints from migrant workers about non-availability of food and non-payment of wages. Authorities asked the employers to provide food and pay wages to the workers. These complaints were forwarded to district authorities for providing rice and cash benefit. “In Hyderabad, GHMC is operating 24 temporary shelters for migrants. The state identified 3.35 lakh stranded migrants and the authorities were asked to provide them 12-kg rice and Rs 500 cash each,” the CS informed. As people were confined to their houses during lockdown period, the state was ensuring that essentials like rice, atta, vegetables, milk and medicines were not hoarded by black marketers. “This is in addition to ongoing supply of rice free of cost to 87 lakh white ration card holders at 12-kg per person,” affidavit said. To prevent further spread of virus, 206 clusters have been identified and containment operations were being done. As a part of containment, house-to-house survey was being done by 2,579 teams to identify symptomatic cases, the CS added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/govt-to-hc-doing-enough-to-push-back-virus-protect-poor/articleshow/75189490.cms||---
April 17, 2020||Vadodara||Covid-19 woman’s son alleges delay in dialysis||Vadodara: Allegations by the son of a coronavirus patient that the dialysis of his mother was delayed at the GMERS, Gotri Covid-19 hospital have sparked a controversy. The hospital defended the move saying that the woman did not need the dialysis urgently. According to the woman’s son Rohan Narvekar, he had gone to a subsidised private dialysis facility on Wednesday with his mother who needs dialysis twice a day. The facility insisted on a Covid-19 test before conducting the procedure. The lady was then taken to the SSG Hospital (SSGH) that has the only testing facility in central Gujarat. The hospital said that the samples for the test will have to collected at GMERS, Gotri. Narvekar claimed that they had to wait from about 1.30pm to 4pm for getting the test done. He added that no social distancing was maintained at the place where people were waiting for sample collection. The woman tested positive on Thursday morning and was rushed to GMERS. The son claimed that the dialysis was also delayed and his mother kept claiming that she was feeling uncomfortable. Officials of GMERS Medical College and Hospital at Gotri admitted that there was a delay in providing treatment to the dialysis patient. “A vehicle was sent to bring the technician who lives in Nadiad. But he had gone somewhere and could not be traced for one or two hours. Now, he has come and is warming up the machine. Dialysis of the patient will start at any moment,” said Dr Minoo Patel, the honorary advisor of the hospital. Patel said that by and large social distancing norms are maintained at the flu corner when screening of patients is carried out. But at times those waiting for tests do not follow the norms. Nodal officer for hospital Dr Chirag Rathod too released a video claiming that there was no emergency condition needing immediate dialysis. He even said that pressure was wrongly being created to ensure an early dialysis. The explanations don’t throw light on how the condition of a patient needing dialysis in emergency would have been managed? In the evening, officer on special duty for Covid-19 Dr Vinod Rao announced that SSG Hospital would also admit Covid-19 patients and will have a capacity of 200 patients in a week’s time.-||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/covid-19-womans-son-alleges-delay-in-dialysis/articleshow/75188331.cms||---
April 17, 2020||Kozhikode||1 tests negative, 400 more under scanner in Malappuram||Malappuram: One more person who was under treatment after he tested positive for coronavirus infection was discharged from Government Medical College, Manjeri on Thursday. Sunil Rafeeque, 51, a native of Alinchvadu near Tirur was discharged after two he tested negative twice consecutively. With this, the total number of people who were discharged from hospital in the district has increased to nine. Two more persons who have recovered are expected to be discharged in the coming days. Sunil, who was discharged around 10am, said the immense support of health workers helped him recover from the infection. He had returned from Dubai on March 18. After he was tested positive for the disease. Sunil was admitted to the medical college on April 1. Meanwhile, as many as 439 more people were brought under observation in the district on Thursday. Currently, 8,708 people are under observation in the district. As many as 38 people are under observation in various hospitals, including Government Medical College, Manjeri, which has been turned to a Covid special treatment centre. While 103 people are under observation in Covid care centres, 8,567 are under observation at their homes. District collector said the decline in number of people who are under observation in the district proves that the joint effort to check the spread of Covid-19 has become effective. He said that people should remain vigilant to prevent spread to more areas in the district. District medical officer K Sakeena said the health condition of eight people who tested positive for the virus infection was satisfactory.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kozhikode/1-tests-negative-400-more-under-scanner-in-malappuram/articleshow/75187291.cms||---
April 17, 2020||Bhopal||Covid-19 fugitives from Indore nabbed 700km away in Morena||BHOPAL/INDORE: Two Covid-19 patients, who had broken out of quarantine in Indore on Wednesday, were arrested nearly 700km away on the Morena border on Thursday night. A third corona patient is still at large. Officials fear the duo may have infected several others along the way. They and two other fugitives were immediately quarantined in a Morena hospital. Police believe eight persons quarantined near Choithram Hospital in Indore started planning their breakout after five of them were told at 10am on Wednesday that they had tested positive for Covid-19. They jumped the wall and made off. The escape was noticed when health officials went for a second round of screening. Three of the fugitives were caught on Wednesday evening, but five others – including three Covid-19 patients – were untraced. Police knew that four of them were from Rampur district of UP, so they started checking all routes that lead across the border. “They changed four trucks to reach Morena,” said an officer.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/covid-19-fugitives-from-indore-nabbed-700km-away-in-morena/articleshow/75189510.cms||---
April 17, 2020||Hubballi||17 cases in one day in Belagavi: Sudden spurt takes district tally to 36||Belagavi: In a worrisome development, as many as 17 people in Belagavi tested positive for novel coronavirus, marking the highest jump for the district in a single day. The spurt in cases also took the district tally to 36, increasing the number of infected clusters in Belagavi, in addition to five zones, which are already under containment. Among the 17 people who tested positive in Belagavi on Thursday, five had returned to the district from New Delhi. The throat swabs of these individuals were sent for re-examination after they completed the stipulated 14-day quarantine, and the results of the re-test confirmed the infection. Among these, four of the infected individuals are men. However, it was at Hirebagawadi that the most cases were registered in the district – eight, of whom six were women. All the eight individuals are said to have contracted the infection from previously infected patients. In addition to the cases at Hirebagawadi, three individuals – one each from Maharashtra, Goa and Vijayapura – tested positive in Raibagh. What has the district administration and health department in Belagavi worried is that none of the patients confirmed with the infection has recovered so far. Worse still, an 80-year-old woman who tested positive for Covid-19 died of a heart attack on Wednesday, contributing to Karnataka’s tally of fatalities. ‘Designated hospital well prepared’ Belagavi Institute of Medical Sciences (BIMS), which is the designated Covid-19 hospital in the district now has its hands full with the influx of more positive cases to the institution. The administrative staff of the hospital convened an emergency meeting on Thursday morning to chalk out a plan of action to deal with the surge in positive cases in the district. Those privy to the developments said that doctors and healthcare personnel at all civic hospitals in Belagavi are likely to be pressed into service at BIMS. Dr Vinay D, director of BIMS, said that the institution was equipped with all the facilities to handle such emergencies. “We can cope with this surge in the number of infections. We have arranged 200 beds for the purpose. But we are facing a shortage of ventilators but none of the machines we have here have been called into service yet. We have 11 ventilators for adults and six in the paediatric section. We are hoping to 10 additional ventilators in two or three days,” Dr Vinay told TOI. He added that the departments of pulmonology, general medicine, paediatrics and anaesthesiology had been named the nodal sections for tackling the Covid-19 outbreak. “But this sudden spike in the cases has forced us to enlist physiology and anatomy departments for ancillary services,” Dr Vinay added. Belagavi deputy commissioner SB Bommanahalli directed all assistant commissioners in the district to be on their toes, and to remain vigilant. “Task forces constituted in every gram panchayat must work relentlessly to trace, and identify any potential infected patients. Officials must also identify hospitals that, if the need arises, can be used for housing patients suspected of the infection,” Bommanahalli told his subordinates. All the designated containment zones had been fenced in within a 3km-radius, with a buffer zone of an additional 2km radius having been created, the DC said. Containment zones in Belagavi: Camp, Yellur, Hirebagawadi, Kudachi, Sankeshwar, Belagundi and Peernawadi ‘Bagalkot patient travelled to Kalaburagi by train’ Meanwhile, Bagalkot district deputy commissioner Captain K Rajendra on Thursday said that one of the Covid-19 infected patients, a resident of the district headquarters, had travelled to Kalaburagi by the Hubballi-Secundrabad train on March 15. “He had travelled in the 11.55pm train, and had been in the general compartment. Hence, I request passengers who travelled by that train must visit the nearest government hospital if they have any of the symptoms of Covid-19,” said Rajendra.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hubballi/17-cases-in-one-day-in-belagavi-sudden-spurt-takes-district-tally-to-36/articleshow/75188521.cms||Shreyas HS
April 17, 2020||Nagpur||Of Rs 279 crore PF withdrawals, only Rs40 lakh from city office||NAGPUR: As the Employees’ Provident Fund Organization (EPFO) has allowed withdrawal of up to 75% of provident fund balance, to tide over financial exigencies due to the lockdown, some 1,800 applications have been cleared through the Nagpur office. As against this, 1.37 lakh cases have been cleared all over the country involving payment of Rs279.65 crore in all. Officials admit that the numbers are low in Nagpur as compared to the overall figures. The 1,800 applications are for a total payment of Rs40 lakh. This comes to little over Rs2,000 per person on an average. The special withdrawal is part of the relief package granted by the government on account of the Covid-19 crisis. Officials in the agency say that the withdrawals can be higher even in Nagpur. However, it appears that a large number of employees are not in a position to apply. The applications have to be made online. However, due to the lockdown computer shops and common service centres (CSCs) are closed too. In cases where the unique account number (UAN) allotted by EPFO has not been verified the employer’s attestation is needed for making the application. Due to the lockdown even a number of employers are away, said an official. Amid all this, entry to the EPFO office has been barred to maintain social distancing too. Those having UAN verified can apply directly. As against over 3.45 lakh total employees under Nagpur office, UANs of over 2.25 lakh have been verified, a source said. Most of the withdrawals are expected to be done by employees whose salaries are within Rs15,000 a month, which is also the upper limit for mandatory provident fund contribution. The number of applications is higher in bigger cities, where employees have access to IT devices. These include cities like Mumbai and Pune. Given the profile of industries and the economic status of the workers in Nagpur, not many can be expected to apply online on their own, the source said. EPFO, which is billed the world’s largest social security organization, covers private sector workers and certain PSUs.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/of-rs279cr-pf-withdrawals-only-rs40-lakh-from-city-office/articleshow/75189640.cms||Shishir Arya
April 17, 2020||Chennai||Chennai: What crisis? It’s just another day at Koyambedu market||CHENNAI: Thousands flocked to the Koyambedu Wholesale Market Complex (KWMC) on Thursday to buy vegetables, fruits and flowers with little regard to social distancing norms and other restrictions in view of the Covid-19 pandemic. The enormous crowd came a day after the Market Management Committee, which maintains the market, appealed to the public to avoid the place. It seemed like a regular day at the market. The parking slots on both entry points were clogged and people were seen arguing and jostling for space to park their vehicles. Several vendors had set up their wares outside. Few were sporting masks and social distancing seemed unheard of. “It doesn’t feel like there is a outbreak, look at the crowd, it’s been increasing day by day,” said T Venkatesh, a vegetable vendor here. “Usually the market is crowded in the morning until 10am to 11am. But now, it’s packed till 2pm or 3pm. This has been the scene here for the last few days.” While people from across the city come to Koyambedu for cheap vegetables, drivers, who were rendered jobless due to the lockdown, visit Koyambedu in their vehicles to buy vegetables for selling in their neighbourhood. “These mobile shops are run by workers depending on daily wages. They were not our regular customers in the past,” S Chandran, secretary of Federation of Wholesale Vegetable Market Associations, said. When contacted, a CMDA official said two-wheelers will be banned from entering the marketplace from Friday . “Only those owned by wholesalers and their employees will be allowed, but they too will be given entry passes,” the official said. (With inputs from Yogesh Kabirdoss)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/what-crisis-its-just-another-day-at-koyambedu-market/articleshow/75189514.cms||Aditi R
April 17, 2020||Hyderabad||UoH raises concerns over QS parameters||HYDERABAD: Even as seven Indian Institutes of Technology decided to boycott the Times Higher Education World Rankings in 2020, the University of Hyderabad (UoH) too raised concerns over the parameters employed and the transparency process in the QS (Quacquarelli Symonds) rankings which are being aggressively pursued by the ministry of human resource development. Following the boycott, the MHRD has called a review meeting with officials at QS to examine the reasons behind the several prestigious Indian varsities, including UoH and Jawaharlal Nehru University, not finding top spots ranking. UoH vice-chancellor Appa Rao Podile questioned the methodology and parameters adopted by QS in ranking universities. “There are various grey areas in the parameters set by the QS. Public perception is one among them. There is lack of clarity on the population being considered as a sample size and its diversity to determine public perception,” said Podile. He recalled how the UoH failed to find a spot in QS 2019 despite figuring in the 591-600 ranks category the previous year. “It was only after constant persuasion by the MHRD that they revised the rankings in which we found a spot last year,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/uoh-raises-concerns-over-qs-parameters/articleshow/75189508.cms||---
April 17, 2020||Lucknow||Min: No power cuts in covid care hosps||Lucknow: A day after announcing that all big power projects in the state will resume from April 20, UP power minister Shrikant Sharma on Thursday directed engineers to ensure uninterrupted power supply to the hospitals taking care of corona patients in the state. Presiding over a review meeting and video conferencing with superintending engineers of various districts, Sharma asked the officials to stay more vigilant and rectify faults while taking the help of local administration. Sharma told the engineers that temporary hospitals set up by the health departments may be taken up on priority basis and also asked them to complete the essential work related to the electricity at the earliest. The energy minister said engineers and employees should take all precautions to avoid getting infected by the contagious virus. He said the facility of thermal scanning should be made available at all power sub-stations, along with masks and sanitizers for the staff. He urged over 70,000 ad hoc workers to download the Aarogya Setu application on their phones within three days. Sharma has increased the financial limit to raise resources at the divisional level from Rs 50,000 to Rs 70,000. He also asked the officials to accelerate the work of Saubhagya scheme, envisaging free electricity connection to the poor, by roping in labourers. The minister further directed the officials to be active on the social media so that problems pertaining to electricity may be resolved at the earliest. Sharma also asked the superintending engineers to ensure that no ad hoc work face the salary cut.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/min-no-power-cuts-in-covid-care-hosps/articleshow/75190255.cms||---
April 17, 2020||Indore||Covid-19 fugitives from Indore nabbed 700km away in Morena||BHOPAL/INDORE: Two Covid-19 patients, who had broken out of quarantine in Indore on Wednesday, were arrested nearly 700km away on the Morena border on Thursday night. A third corona patient is still at large. Officials fear the duo may have infected several others along the way. They and two other fugitives were immediately quarantined in a Morena hospital. Police believe eight persons quarantined near Choithram Hospital in Indore started planning their breakout after five of them were told at 10am on Wednesday that they had tested positive for Covid-19. They jumped the wall and made off. The escape was noticed when health officials went for a second round of screening. Three of the fugitives were caught on Wednesday evening, but five others – including three Covid-19 patients – were untraced. Police knew that four of them were from Rampur district of UP, so they started checking all routes that lead across the border. “They changed four trucks to reach Morena,” said an officer.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/indore/covid-19-fugitives-from-indore-nabbed-700km-away-in-morena/articleshow/75191491.cms||---
April 17, 2020||Goa||Goa: VAT on petrol up, to cost over Rs 2 more per litre||PANAJI: With revenues drying up following the lockdown due to coronavirus, the Goa government on Thursday moved to hike the Value Added Tax (VAT) on petrol from 21% to 25% effectively increasing the price by Rs 2.10 per litre in the state, finance department officials said. Officials with the commercial taxes department said that despite the increase in VAT, fuel prices in Goa are lower than Maharashtra and Karnataka by Rs 9 per litre. Petrol costs Rs 76.64 per litre in Maharashtra, while it is Rs 73.20 in Karnataka. The price hike will come into effect from Thursday midnight, the department said. As on Thursday, petrol was being sold at around Rs 66 per litre, while diesel was retailing at Rs 62.61 per litre. After the hike, the price of petrol will hover around Rs 68.10 per litre in Goa. The price of diesel will remain steady. Due to the lockdown, fuel consumption has dropped in the state with 85% drop in purchase from fuel bunkers. “We are only doing 15% of the regular sales and thus there is a drop in the tax collection so the government is possibly hoping to make money from the 15% business,” said an official. The price of petrol and diesel have remained steady for over a month even as global crude oil prices have hit a 20-year low. The price of petrol and diesel will vary slightly depending on the location of the fuel stations in the state. VAT on petrol was increased from 15% to 20% in June 2019 and then again in November to 21%. The applicable VAT on diesel remains at 18%.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/vat-on-petrol-up-to-cost-over-rs-2-more-per-litre/articleshow/75190563.cms||---
April 17, 2020||Business||TCS Q4 revenue growth one of its lowest ever||BENGALURU: TCS had one of its slowest ever growth rates in the last quarter, underscoring the challenges the IT services industry is facing with the Covid-19 pandemic. The company’s revenue in the quarter ended March stood at $5.4 billion, a growth of 3% year-on-year in constant currency, and just 0.9% in reported terms. The latter is the lowest since the September quarter of 2009-10. The growth has slumped from the high 12.7% it was at exactly a year ago. On the brighter side, TCS closed $8.9 billion worth of deals in the March quarter, a 48.3% increase sequentially and 43.5% jump year-on-year. “If we look at the near term, the impact on the revenue side of what is unfolding around us is comparable to the global financial crisis and its peak impact is going to come in the next quarter,” said CEO Rajesh Gopinathan. He said unlike the global financial crisis, the impact is more broad-based. “We are in the midst of a storm. There’s no doubt about it and more importantly, the storm is going to get a lot worse before it gets better. But it will get better. We are confident that we have a good ship and a good crew and we believe we have what it takes to come out of it,” he said. Gopinathan said the firm has modelled how the pandemic will impact its business in the coming months and he’s confident of making a comeback in the December quarter. “Assuming that the peak is in Q1, we have modelled it and we believe we should be able to get back to where we were in Q3 2020 by the time we get to Q3 2021,” he said. Operating margin at 25.1% was flat compared to a year ago, and 10 bps sequentially, aided by the rupee depreciation. That’s below its desired target band of 26%-28%. CFO V Ramakrishnan said there will be a contraction in the short term. “We want to optimise every aspect of costs,” he said. For the full year, revenue was $22 billion, a growth of 7.1% in constant currency and 5.3% in reported terms; the latter is the lowest since FY2010. The growth was led by life sciences & healthcare with a 16.8% year-on-year growth, and Europe and the UK growing at 14.6% and 10.4% respectively. 'No layoffs because of slowdown'TCS said it won’t lay off employees because of the slowdown, but said it wouldn’t be giving salary hikes this time. “We don’t see any form of retrenchment or any such activity due to the demand side events. We assure that we will accelerate hiring in the coming few weeks and months,” said CEO Rajesh Gopinathan. TCS global HR head Milind Lakkad said the firm will honour all the 40,000 job offers it has made to campus recruits. Promotions will also continue, but the quantum of promotions will depend on the business performance. The company added 1,789 employees in the March quarter, taking the total headcount to 4.5 lakh employees. Lakkad said the company’s Secure Borderless Workspaces model, which takes location agnosticism to a new level, represents the future of work, and the company believes that by 2025, employees will spend only 25% of their time in an office.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/tcs-q4-revenue-growth-one-of-its-lowest-ever/articleshow/75190272.cms||Shilpa Phadnis
April 17, 2020||Hyderabad||Leopard found dead near village in Siddipet||SIDDIPET: A leopard was found dead under suspicious circumstances at Siddipet forest range on Tuesday. The incident came to light when villagers found the body in the forest on the outskirts of Siddipet’s Kasulabad village and informed the sarpanch and forest officials. “We will register a case and start the investigation to find out the cause of death. The postmortem will be done on Friday,” said Sridhar, divisional forest officer, Siddipet.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/leopard-found-dead-near-village-in-siddipet/articleshow/75189521.cms||---
April 17, 2020||Thiruvananthapuram||Seven more turn positive even as 27 recover in Kerala||Thiruvananthapuram: Continuing with the current trend in the state, 27 persons were declared Covid-19-free after consecutive negative tests while seven more were added to the tally of confirmed cases on Thursday. Of those recovering from the infection, 24 are from the worst-hit district of Kasaragod. One each from Ernakulam, Malappuram and Kannur also were tested negative. Of the seven positive cases, Kannur accounted for four, with two in Kozhikode and one in Kasaragod. Among these, five persons had travelled from abroad and two are primary contacts. The state has so far reported 394 positive cases, of which 147 people are undergoing treatment in various hospitals. The number of people under observation in the state has come down considerably, to 88,855, of which 532 are admitted in various hospitals with suspected symptoms. On Thursday, 108 people were hospitalized in the state. To date, 17,400 samples have been sent for testing and 16,459 samples have come out negative. Briefing the media, chief minister Pinarayi Vijayan said a batch of 268 UK nationals left from Thiruvananthapuram and Kochi by a British Airways flight on Thursday. This includes the seven Britons who had tested positive for Covid-19 and underwent treatment here.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/thiruvananthapuram/seven-more-turn-positive-even-as-27-recover-in-state/articleshow/75187335.cms||---
April 17, 2020||Lucknow||Lucknow: 25 new cases take coronavirus case count above 100-mark||LUCKNOW: In a disquieting development, the number of novel coronavirus cases in the state capital crossed the 100 mark on Thursday with 25 more people from the two hotspots in city — Sadar and Nayagaon — testing positive for the infection. The sudden spurt in the cases since last two days sent alarm bells ringing, the only consolation was the fact that the infection has not spread to other areas and the fresh cases are confined to the two hotspots. Among the 25 positive cases detected on Thursday, 22 are from Sadar and three from Nayagaon in Nazirabad. The 24-year-old son of the elderly man from Nazirabad who died of Covid-19 on Wednesday also tested positive, besides eight of a family, including women and children, in Sadar. All fresh cases are symptomatic and have been admitted to RR Insitute on Sitapur Road and government hospital in Bakshi Ka Talab, said Lucknow chief medical officer Dr Narendra Agarwal. It was the second day when the city recorded fresh cases in double digits, after 31 people had tested positive on Wednesday. Total 107 people have tested positive in Lucknow so far, including 84 residents and 23 hailing from other cities and states. Of total city residents, 73 got infected after coming in contact with Tablighi Jamaat members who had taken shelter in their areas. In fact, 64 people have been found to be infected in Sadar area alone, which is now among the biggest hotspots in the state. However, most of them are still asymptomatic. The health department had also sent swab samples of the 25 employees deployed on duty in Sadar for testing but their reports were negative. The people found positive in the city till now are undergoing treatment at KGMU and other hospitals.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/25-new-cases-take-corona-case-count-above-100-mark/articleshow/75190265.cms||---
April 17, 2020||Delhi||RWAs face pressure over Aarogya Setu app||New Delhi: Stressing that it is an important tool to keep oneself safe from Covid-19, officials of various districts have started urging residents to install the Aarogya Setu app on their smartphones. Though there are no specific directions from the government, officials in some districts have made it mandatory for people to install the application and roped in RWAs and market associations to get the compliance report. All educational institutions and departments have also been asked to push for installation of the app. Earlier, Prime Minister Narendra Modi had said that the tracking app was an essential tool to stymie novel coronavirus and urged citizens to download it. Developed by National Informatics Centre, the app helps citizens identify their risk from the virus. It is designed to keep the user informed in case paths are crossed with a Covid-19 positive person. A user is asked multiple questions to assess his health status. If someone’s answers suggest Covid-19 symptoms, the information is sent to the government server for taking remedial steps. The user is asked to keep the location and Bluetooth on. East district magistrate Arun Kumar Mishra said, “In east district alone, more than 20 lakh people have been contacted through various channels, from booth level officers to RWAs and market associations and even teachers and principals, to install the application. Text messages with the link of the app are being sent to mobile phones.” NITI Ayog CEO Amitabh Kant said the app has reached 50 million users in just 13 days, making it the fastest-ever globally. North DM Deepak Shinde said people are being called by the Covid warriors team urging them to install the app. “Given the manner in which the number of Covid-19 cases are increasing, the app can make lives easier for people as well as the authorities,” he added. Neha Bansal, west DM, said the key factor is that a user must keep updating his/her health status. However, those working in the field of digital rights and privacy issues believe that the app collects a lot of personal details. The privacy policy doesn’t explain who the data will be shared with. Prasanth Sugathan, voluntary legal director, Software Legal Law Centre, India, an advocacy group on digital rights, said, “There is a trust deficit. Users should feel comfortable while downloading the app as to what data is being collected and how is it going to be used. Also, what data is going to the server and the kind of analysis that is going to happen should be known to the users.” Shinde, however, claimed that nothing extra is being asked as people install many apps on their phones and share all kinds of data. Mishra echoed his views and said, “The app is just asking for basic details that are important to know the user’s health status and risk issues. You can delete the app as soon as Covid-19 is over.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/rwas-face-pressure-over-aarogya-setu-app/articleshow/75212361.cms||Atul Mathur
April 17, 2020||Bareilly||12 migrant labourers on way to Bihar’s Champaran dist on foot quarantined; groom sent back||Pilibhit: As many as 12 labourers, including three minors aged 14, 16 and 17 years, who were on their way home to Bihar’s West Champaran district on foot from Deuni Dam area under Amaria block in Pilibhit, were caught and quarantined here on Thursday. Meanwhile, a groom — Devdatt from Uganpur village under Jahanabad police station — who was on way to marry a girl of Iradatpur village under Bisalpur kotwali, along with five of his relatives in a car, was sent back to his home by police after he failed to show the permission issued by the district administration for the wedding. The groom and his relatives were caught on the outskirts of Bisalpur city, said Bisalpur kotwali SHO KK Tiwari. According to superintendent of police Abhishek Dixit, the labourers, hailing from five villages of the Champaran district, used to work for a brick kiln near Deuni Dam. Khakra outpost police caught them 25 km away from their work place, said the SP. According to labourers, they were forced to march towards their native villages on foot as they had left with no work as the brick kiln was closed and the lockdown, too, was extended till May 3, said police. The district administration, meanwhile, released as many as 21 people after completion of their 14 days quarantine period on Thursday. Assistant regional transport officer Amitabh Rai said all 21 people — one from Kheri district and 20 from Bahraich —were sent to their homes by a special roadways bus on Thursday. On Wednesday, 26 people — including 18 from Kushinagar district and eight from Balia — were sent to their homes by bus after completion of their quarantine period, added Rai.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/12-migrant-labourers-on-way-to-bihars-champaran-dist-on-foot-quarantined-groom-sent-back/articleshow/75188563.cms||---
April 17, 2020||Hyderabad||Group steps in to feed the poor and monkeys in Karimnagar||HYDERABAD: With the lockdown period extended, an aircraft maintenance engineer-turned-wholesale onion dealer Bhavin Bhalodi (29) and his group of friends got themselves full time into distribution of food to the poor and needy people in Karimnagar town. The group has also fed 2,000 bananas to hungry monkeys at Kondagattu temple. Bhavin started distributing biscuits when he first saw a group of hungry people. It was then he got to know that they were going without food at night as food distribution was taking place only during afternoon. For the last 20 days or so, the group has been providing packed food to the needy and migrants in the afternoon and night as well. Since another NGO ‘Spandana’ was also providing food to needy, they coordinated with it so that there is no wastage of food. Once the food is prepared, the group of friends pack them and distribute them. So far, 8,000 food packets have been distributed by the group of friends — Parandham Sunke, Shashi Garimela, Kalyan, Raju Thatikonda, Mahinder, Masam Ganesh and Chandu Akula. “We are grateful to Karimnagar police who are facilitating our efforts to provide food and essentials to the poor,” Bhavin said. Karimnagar commissioner of police VB Kamalasan Reddy and additional DCP Chandra Mohan lauded the group’s work and organised police driver Amjed to take a jeep and pick up the volunteers and food for distribution. Bhavin was also behind the ‘Clean Karimnagar’ initiative wherein like-minded people and volunteers undertook cleaning of the Manair dam. This activity took 177 days. With the entire focus being on helping the migrants and poor, Bhavin’s group wants to help as many people as it can.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/group-steps-in-to-feed-the-poor-and-monkeys-in-karimnagar/articleshow/75189530.cms||Ch Sushil Rao
April 17, 2020||Kolkata||West Bengal: Number of cured patients crosses half-century mark||KOLKATA/ KALIMPONG: Amid the Covid scare, many are being cured and sent home regularly. Till Thursday, 51 Covid-19 patients have been cured in the state, with most being sent home and a few ready to be discharged. Even as senior citizens have the highest risk of falling prey to the virus, one of the patients who went home on Thursday was a 64-year-old survivor. Arabinda Mitra, the CIC member and a councillor of ward 10 of Madhyamgram municipality reached his Bankimpally home after being released from Infectious Diseases & Beliaghata General Hospital (ID&BG). “I had mild symptom and initially couldn’t realize it. But when I had tested positive, I did not let tension overcome me. Doctors too reassured that there was nothing to worry,” Mitra said. Mitra was given a rousing welcome by many councillors, neighbours and his family as he returned home on Thursday afternoon. He lauded the government’s efforts to contain the spread of the virus and appealed everyone to stay home. He had tested positive om April 4. “So far, we have sent 25 patients home cured. Currently, we have 28 patients under treatment. Our doctors are working hard so that each of them can be sent home in good health,” said Anima Haldar, principal ID&BG. In North Bengal, 41, all from Kalimpong, who were under institutional quarantine, were sent home after they tested negative and showed no further sign of infection. Disha Hall and Marwari Bhawan have been turned into a quarantine centre after a 44-year-old corona positive patient, a Kalimpong resident, had died at North Bengal Medical College. They were either family members and relatives of deceased or people who had come in contact.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/number-of-cured-patients-crosses-half-century-mark/articleshow/75189532.cms||Sanjib Chakraborty
April 17, 2020||Kochi||Focus on food production, Kerala govt tells local bodies||KOCHI: In the wake of the threat posed by Covid-19 and subsequent possibility of scarcity of food items, the state government has issued orders revising guidelines for plan implementation by local bodies with a focus on food production. As per revised guidelines, projects for food production, vegetables cultivation and food processing should be top priorities while preparing plan fund projects. Repair works of hospitals, schools and anganwadis also should get priority in the list of projects to be implemented. The government has relaxed certain norms so as to allow the local bodies to start the implementation of projects immediately. As of now, one-fourth of the local bodies are yet to submit their projects to the district planning committees concerned. All local bodies should revise their plan fund projects by incorporating projects aimed at increasing production of food items. Government has developed features in Sulekha software for helping local bodies design vegetables farming projects in a better way. Projects for vegetables farming need not require prior approval of planning committees, vetting is mandatory though. Government has instructed the vetting officials not to delay vetting of projects for increasing food production and vegetables cultivation. “The CM has called for a plan which gives priority to agricultural produce. In the wake of the threat of posed by Covid-19, there may be chances for food scarcity. We have to address such issues. We have instructed all district planning committees to meet on an urgent basis using online platforms with the minimal strength required and give approvals for projects submitted by local bodies by April 21,” local self-government minister A C Moitheen told TOI. “If there are any corrections or appendages to the projects they can be made in May,” he said. “Now it is the time for preparations for starting next crop season. We have given instructions to all those concerned to ensure supply of seeds, manure and other supports for farmers to produce food grains and vegetables,” Moitheen said. Experts expect food production and distribution in the country to be badly hit soon. Many of them suggest decentralised stocking and distribution system so as to ensure equitable distribution of food items. They also suggest boosting local level production using workforce who returned to villages from urban areas. “Decentralised food production, processing and distribution are the need of the hour. So, local bodies should focus on food production and processing. Micro, small and medium enterprises (MSMEs) also should focus on food processing,” said Martin Patrick, economist and member of Ernakulam district planning committee. The guidelines instruct local bodies to prepare plans for providing aid for hospitals to fight Covid-19.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/focus-on-food-production-state-govt-tells-local-bodies/articleshow/75188601.cms||---
April 17, 2020||Bareilly||Asst govt teacher suspended for objectionable FB post in Kheri||Bareilly: A assistant government teacher who allegedly made objectionable remarks against PM Narendra Modi, UP CM Yogi Adityanath and a few religious books on Facebook has been suspended by BSA Lakhimpur Kheri Budhpriya Singh. A preliminary probe found the teacher to be guilty. The teacher was posted in Dhaurahra tehsil. He was served a notice on April 10 by BSA Singh. The assistant teacher allegedly wrote an objectionable post on his Facebook wall and shared it. The post made several locals see red and they lodged an official complaint against him. There was outrage on social media as well. Taking cognizance of the matter, the BSA immediately asked for an explanation about the post from the teacher concerned. The latter's explanation failed to convince BSA Singh, who suspended the teacher. Now, block education officer of Dhaurahra, Upendra Singh, has been directed to probe the matter. and provide a final report soon. The BSA said, “The assistant teacher was suspended for violation of code of conduct. His post has hurt the religious sentiments of people and he has also shown disrespect towards the CM and PM which comes under violation of employee code of conduct."||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/asst-govt-teacher-suspended-for-objectionable-fb-post-in-kheri/articleshow/75188574.cms||Kanwardeep Singh
April 17, 2020||Vijayawada||39 covid cases in Andhra Pradesh below 16 years||VIJAYAWADA: As many as 39 children below 16 years have tested positive for Covid-19 in Andhra Pradesh, indicating that no age group is immune from the pandemic. In the 0-10 years age group, 19 kids figure in the Covid-19 positive list of 534 as of Thursday morning. Children as little as three years old have also contracted the novel coronavirus. The 11-20 years age bracket accounts for 44 cases or nearly 8.2% of all Covid-19 positive cases registered thus far in the state. Nearly 44% cases affected by Covid-19 in AP belong to the 21-40 years age group, as per data of the state government for 534 Covid-19 cases. This correlates with the national trends of nearly 40% Covid-19 incidence in the 21-40 years age group. The next most-affected group is 41-60 years with about 34% cases in the state. Officials said that contrary to popular belief that the elderly are more susceptible to Covid-19, only about 10% patients are above 60 years. There are four patients aged 80 years, the oldest among all. While 40 patients are in the 61-70 years age group, 14 patients belong to the 71-80 years bracket. When it comes to gender, men make up for nearly 72% cases. Of the 534 cases registered till Thursday morning, only 149 women tested positive. Health officials said children showed very mild symptoms and responded well to the treatment. The majority of the Covid-19 patients, who were cured and discharged from hospitals so far in Andhra Pradesh, belong to the 21-40 years age group. However, the recent recovery of a 70-year-old patient in Visakhapatnam and two 65-year-old patients – one from Vijayawada and one from Visakhapatnam – come as a glimmer of hope in the fight against the pandemic, officials said. Several discharged patients also had comorbidities. On the other hand, a majority of the 14 Covid-related fatalities were in patients aged 50 years or above. Several of these deaths occurred in patients with pre-existing health conditions. According to the state authorities, these comorbidities might have made them susceptible to the Covid-related complications. But the officials are yet to establish the origin of the disease in some of the death cases. Special chief secretary, medical, health and family welfare, KS Jawahar Reddy, said the combined Covid-19 testing capacity of the state has reached to 3,000 samples a day from just 90 samples on February 15. “We want to take it to 17,000 in the next one week. Andhra Pradesh has tested 331 people per million against the country’s average of 198 tests and stands among the few states screening higher number of people,” said Jawahar Reddy.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/39-covid-cases-in-state-below-16-years/articleshow/75188581.cms||Umamaheswara Rao
April 17, 2020||Lucknow||Lucknow: Fatwa says victims of coronavirus can be buried in graveyard||LUCKNOW: A day after locals in Aishbagh did not allow the burial of an elderly man who died of coronavirus, Darul Uloom Farangi Mahal based Darul Ifta issued a fatwa on Thursday clarifying that Muslims who die of the virus have to be buried in graveyards as an Islamic and WHO mandated protocol. The clerics also condemned the protest by some locals who did not allow burial in Aishbagh graveyard on Wednesday night and termed it as “inhuman, un-Islamic and shameful”. Darul Ifta issued fatwa after receiving a query from Lucknow resident Syed Ayaz Ahmed on the issue. Ahmed had asked whether the Islamic ritual of ‘ghusl’(bathing the body before burial) could be followed for a person who died of coronavirus. Further, he enquired whether the body of such person can be shrouded and ‘namaz-e-janaza’ (prayer for the dead) be offered and whether such person can be buried in a graveyard for Muslims. Signed by four clerics, Maulana Khalid Rasheed Farangi Mahali, Maulana Nasrullah, Maulana Naeem-ur-Rahman Siddiqui and Maulana Mohammad Mushtaq, the fatwa stated that ‘ghusl’ can be performed but with the exception that it will be done by flowing water over the sealed body. The seal should not be opened. The body will also not be needing a separate shroud and that the plastic in which it is wrapped by medical professionals will be enough to be considered as a shroud. Namaz-e-Janaza will also be offered for the dead. Condemning Wednesday’s incident, Maulana Khalid Rasheed said, “The act by such people is unIslamic, inhuman, against Shariah and absolutely atrocious. The act is defamatory of Muslims and those who die of this pandemic, should receive respect and sensitivity, not ostracization.” “In the entire world, wherever people are dying of this disease, their last rites are being performed as per their rituals and traditions. Christians and Jews are burying their dead in graveyards and the same has been clarified by WHO in its guidelines issued on March 24,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/fatwa-says-victims-of-virus-can-be-buried-in-graveyard/articleshow/75190274.cms||Yusra Husain
April 17, 2020||Kolkata||Govt launches e-registration of property documents||Kolkata: The state on Thursday introduced e-registration of property documents so that a part of the registration process, including verification of documents and payment of stamp duty, can be done online from home. The move is aimed at reopening revenue channels for the government that has become cash starved following the lockdown. It has offered a discount in registration fee for those who undertake this before May 31. Developers said it could help them register agreements of sale for deals concluded prior to lockdown so that they could collect payments from customers. Also, developers who have completed projects but were unable to hand over the property to customers despite completion certificate can now register the sale deed. Chief secretary Rajiva Sinha said, “This is an emergency situation and considering the urgency of property registration the state will start the e-registration process where the people can submit their entire e-deed online and they will be provided with a provisional digital certificate. This certificate will be valid everywhere.” To complete the biometric identification required to complete the registration process, people will have to visit the registration office after the lockdown is withdrawn. Sources said in case of bulk deed, an official from the registration directorate would visit the appointed location of the location of registrants to complete the process and deliver the deeds. The state cabinet also decided to give a reduction of 20% registration fees with a ceiling of Rs 20,000 to people who will avail of this new system till May 31. Nandu Belani, president of Credai Bengal, said the move would help cash-strapped developers to also collect funds. Credai West Bengal president Sushil Mohta called for greater awareness about the e-registration process.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/govt-launches-e-registration-of-property-documents/articleshow/75189555.cms||---
April 17, 2020||Lucknow||Lucknow: AKTU uploads 2,800 lectures online for over 2.50 lakh students||LUCKNOW: Over 2.50 lakh students of the APJ Abdul Kalam Technical University (AKTU) and its affiliated colleges have switched over to online classes. The students have received SMSes from university and college authorities, directing them to download e-lecture to resume their studies. In the last two weeks of lockdown, over 9,000 faculty members have uploaded 2,800 lectures online, covering various courses. The AKTU has also been on the forefront of Covid-19 fight with vice-chancellor Vinay Kumar Pathak exhorting students to upload their ideas on Facebook and YouTube highlighting ways to check spread of the novel coronaviurs infection. The university has received over 950 ideas at a weekly ideathon. Students forwarding good ideas would be awarded by the VC. Besides, the VC has made available e-books to the students and has also announced an online internship programme. The VC is personally monitoring the e-content being offered to students. Over 9,000 faculty members of AKTU and its affiliated colleges are taking online classes daily. Meanwhile, Uttar Pradesh governor Anandiben Patel has made Pathak chairman of a high-powered committee which has been constituted to submit a report on e-content which can be used by other universities and technical institutions of the state. Talking to TOI, Pathak said that AKTU has awarded 150 faculties for uploading quality e-content. PHD students have also been asked to submit their report online, he added. The VC said that with the help of online studies he was confident that over 2.50 lakh students of the university and its affiliated colleges would not suffer any academic loss.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/aktu-uploads-2-8k-lectures-online-for-over-2-5l-students/articleshow/75190280.cms||---
April 17, 2020||Thiruvananthapuram||Love and kindness are also contagious||Thiruvananthapuram: If there is something spreading faster than Covid-19, that would be nothing other than compassion. A good number of people who received support from unexpected corners at the time of crisis, especially during the devastating floods, are now returning the favour to those affected by the Covid-19 crisis and lockdown. A native of Kadungalloor in Aluva, Sundesh Kumar faced the biggest crisis of his life in 2018 when he lost everything to floods. Two years later, Sundesh is now busy distributing free breakfast to poor families in the area. Group of technology companies, which raised funds through a musical event ‘Revival’ to support people affected by the floods had contributed a commercial grinder and a steamer to Sundesh, which helped him start everything from scratch. He was among the 72 beneficiaries of the charity drive launched by GTech, with the support of Palakkad-based Padma Charitable Trust. “I got a helping hand when I was hit by a crisis. Now I am doing a small bit which I could afford by contributing 10 packets of breakfast. It is distributed to the poor in the locality, among whom is a lonely mentally-challenged person. A contribution to the meal distribution of Sevabharathi and police too is being made regularly,” he said. Similar is the case of A Mariajaya, who came from Thoothukudi to Kadungalloor to eke out a living by tailoring in 2018. Within two months, she lost everything to the floods. She was given three sewing machines by GTech. “Now we are back to life. So, when this crisis came, we made masks and contributed to the panchayat, poor children in the area and to various other groups,” said Mariajaya, who along with her husband Arumugham is running a tailoring unit. In Thiruvananthapuram, city mayor’s office got a call on Thursday from Kaithamukku native Ganeshan, who expressed his desire to contribute to corporation’s community kitchen. He asked someone to collect the amount as he was unwell. When mayor K Sreekumar reached his house, Ganeshan, a Parkinson’s patient, donated Rs 1,000 from his welfare pension to the community kitchen. It was another way of paying back for Ganeshan who was able to conduct a major surgery at Sree Chitra hospital in 2012 with government’s financial aid. Incidentally, it is not just a chain reaction of goodness. Some who faced bitter experiences in the past are continuing with humanitarian efforts this time too. Omanakuttan, known as ‘Saghavu Omanakuttan’, is one of them. Omanakuttan, who was harassed for collecting fund from camps during flood was able to prove his innocence later. However, that didn’t hold him back this time. Omanakuttan said that he contributed vegetables produced this time to the community kitchen of K K Kumaran Palliative Care, Kanjikuzhy in Cherthala. “When the entire state is suffering, I could not think about any profits,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/thiruvananthapuram/love-and-kindness-are-also-contagious/articleshow/75187367.cms||Jisha Surya
April 17, 2020||Vadodara||Corona fears paralyze Godhra APMC trade||Vadodara: After a tea vendor at the Godhra Agriculture Produce Market Committee (APMC) tested positive for Covid-19, the Panchmahal district administration is caught in a catch 22 situation while trying to streamline supply of grocery and greens. The tea vendor has been allotted space at the APMC and was working from there till April 13 when he tested positive for Covid-19. This led to a panic in the Godhra APMC and it was shut down. Most traders there went into self-quarantine even as they were advised home quarantine later by health officials. Meanwhile, to ensure that citizens in and around Godhra get essentials like staples, vegetables and fruit, the functioning of the APMC is crucial. But with its sudden closure, wholesale traders and retailers are at a quandary over how to distribute vegetable stock. The district administration has asked the farmers to come to the APMC and sell greens directly to the retailers and even the street vendors. The grain market was located in a separate enclosure and has remained unaffected. Godhra collector Amit Arora said that the Halol APMC had also been asked to divert a part of vegetables it procures to Godhra. “The situation should normalize within a couple of days,” Arora said. Godhra APMC chairman Rajendrasinh Chauhan said that the traders will come to the market only after their home quarantine period gets over. “Till then, alternative arrangements will remain in place,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/corona-fears-paralyze-godhra-apmc-trade/articleshow/75188370.cms||---
April 17, 2020||Business||E-groceries, kiranas big gainers in spend: Study||Bengaluru: Local kirana stores and online grocery platforms have emerged as the biggest gainer in terms of consumer preference for essential needs during Covid-19 outbreak, leaving behind large national supermarket chains and hypermarkets, according to a report by McKinsey India. Both kirana stores and e-grocers are projected to record an almost 40% spike in purchases from consumers as compared to the period before the spread of virus . This is the highest growth rate among various retail formats available in India. Consumer spends have spiked in supermarket chains and cash & carry stores by 5% and 4%, respectively. They spent 28% more at the neighbouring fruits and vegetable shops. The increased spending across kirana stores and online grocery platforms would continue to surge by almost 30% and 38%, respectively, after the pandemic. TOI has been reporting how e-grocers, kirana stores and business-to-business startups selling fresh supplies, have seen steady growth in demand from consumers. While Bigbasket, Grofers, Amazon, and Flipkart are ramping up capacity, some of these players are also tying up with local kiranas to increase the availability of products to meet the increasing demand. The consumer survey, conducted between March 21-23, right before the first 21-day lockdown was imposed from March 25, showed that purchase of grocery and ready-to-eat items during outbreak rose 53% and 26% respectively as compared to spends before pandemic. The same is expected to sustain in the range of 48% and 22%, respectively, in post-Covid-19 scenario. The report said Indians faced most difficulty in procuring frozen meat and fresh food during the lockdown period and about 35% of them switched grocery stores, driven by proximity and product availability, a third of whom do not plan to go back.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/e-groceries-kiranas-big-gainers-in-spend-study/articleshow/75190287.cms||Digbijay Mishra
April 17, 2020||Bareilly||Brothers shot dead over land dispute in Sambhal||Bareilly: Two brothers were allegedly shot dead by their neighbours over a land dispute in Ramnagar village under Asmauli police station in Sambhal district on Thursday. Additional superintendent of police Alok Jaiswal said that both the brothers were in their fifties. “We have arrested one person and recovered the licenced gun used in the double murder. Raids to nab two absconding persons are on,” he said. The deceased brothers have been identified as Mahmood (55) and Iliyas (53), the ASP added. “Mahmood had some dispute with his neighbour Saleem over the boundary of his field. The latter encroached upon a portion of the former’s land. On Thursday, Mahmood and his brother raised objection for encroaching upon their land, following which Saleem, his brother Titu and cousin Anazir attacked the two brothers with wooden sticks and later shot at them.” The police officer said that upon getting information, a team rushed to the spot and took the injured to a hospital where doctors declared them as "brought dead". The two bodies have been sent for postmortem. An FIR under section 302 (murder) of IPC has been registered against the three. Raids are on to nab Titu and Anazir, who are still at large.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/brothers-shot-dead-over-land-dispute-in-sambhal/articleshow/75188615.cms||Pankul Sharma
April 17, 2020||Bareilly||Brother of Covid-19 victim had also died of ‘unknown illness’ recently, was buried secretly||Bareilly: A day after a police and health department team was attacked by a mob in Moradabad’s Nawabpura area, it has come to light that the elder brother of the 49-year-old man, who succumbed to Covid-19 on Monday, had died of an unknown illness on April 5, but the family didn't inform the police and buried the body secretly in a nearby graveyard. Moradabad SSP Amit Pathak said they learnt about the death only after the mob attack on Wednesday. Both the deceased brothers had visited Delhi recently. Meanwhile, an FIR has been registered against 221 people and 17, including seven women, were arrested for Wednesday’s mob attack on cops and health workers. After the incident, the rioters had run away after crossing the Ramganga, and according to police, they had taken shelter in forest area across the river. Police raids are on to nab the remaining accused, the SSP said. Additional superintendent of police (city) Amit Kumar Anand told TOI, “After the 49-year-old man was quarantined on April 9, we examined his call details to learn that he had visited Daryaganj in Delhi on March 12.” The ASP said that after he died due to coronavirus on April 13, the health department as well as local administration got anxious. His family had already been home-quarantined. “After the Wednesday’s incident, we learnt that his elder brother, who was 70, had died on April 5 and the body was buried secretly. We examined his CDR to find that he was also in Delhi on March 13 and after staying there for three days, he reached Piran Kaliyar Sharif, a 13-century sufi shrine located in Roorkee in Uttarakhand. It cannot be ruled out that he may have come in contact with a Tablighi Jamaat Covid carrier there,” the ASP said. Meanwhile, police on Thursday went through the CCTV and drone-camera footage and videos shot by local residents of Nawabpura area to identify the rioters involved in Wednesday’s attack. The ASP said that teams have been set up to arrest others involved in the incident.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/brother-of-covid-19-victim-had-also-died-of-unknown-illness-recently-was-buried-secretly/articleshow/75188594.cms||Pankul Sharma
April 17, 2020||Business||GICs give extra sops to employees||Bengaluru: Many MNC tech centres in India – what are called global inhouse centres (GICs) – are extending newer forms of support to its employees working from home during Covid-19, not only to ensure their health and safety, but also to retain good talent, a study by consulting firm Zinnov said. Many GICs are requesting their insurers to extend existing medical coverage to include Covid-19 testing, irrespective of the result. In case the insurer denies, certain organisations are covering the costs for the employee or even extending medical cover to employees who are admitted in hospitals. Many are reimbursing internet and mobile bills, given that employees are now working from home. They are reimbursing the cost incurred to install essential IT infrastructure. They are tying up with psychologists to help employees overcome the emotional stress resulting from social distancing and often living alone. Salary advance is being paid out to part-time employees. “Extensibility and the flexibility of benefits being provided by GCoEs (global centres of excellence), especially in response to force majeure crises like Covid-19, is fast becoming par for the course. GCoEs are not only extending insurance coverage for the physical well-being of their employees but are also taking care of the employees’ emotional well-being,” said Mohammed Faraz Khan, principal and delivery head of GCoE accelerator platform at Zinnov. The study involved 66 such tech centres with more than 140 offices across the country. The majority were from Bengaluru, the hub of GICs. More than 50% were internet and software firms, and 11% were BFSI (banking, financial services and insurance) firms. Mental health has become an important aspect of employee wellness, the study finds, with 90% of participating GCoEs offering mental wellness programmes. These programmes include a combination of counseling, meditation, seminars/group activities, yoga, etc. Also, with many couples working from home and often having to deal with children, companies are also granting different work timings and shorter working days. “Most employee benefits that once served as a competitive advantage for attracting talent are now a common practice in several industries,” the report says. Rewarding innovation and innovators has also become increasingly crucial to engage and motivate top talent in GCoEs, with 88% having Innovation Reward Programmes and 60% having Patent Reward Programmes.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/gics-give-extra-sops-to-employees/articleshow/75190296.cms||Avik Das
April 17, 2020||Bareilly||History-sheeter beaten to death in Kheri, allegedly during failed dacoity||BAREILLY: A history-sheeter was beaten to death on suspect of robbery in Ramuapur village in Dhaurahra area of Lakhimpur Kheri district on Wednesday night. His dead body was recovered from a crop field, but none of the villagers owned up to having killed him. Police is investigating the incident. According to police, three robbers had entered the house of a local, but they were foiled. When they attempted to escape, one of them was caught by the villagers. The deceased was identified as Rafeeq, a resident of Pathananpurva village of Nighasan area, who had been recently released from jail. Villagers claimed three armed robbers had barged into a house in the village, and opened fire when the house owner raised the alarm. Rafeeq (42) was a notorious criminal and had nearly 40 cases registered in Kheri and adjacent districts, for robbery, Arms Act violations, etc. After Nighasan police shared the news of his death with his family, his wife Tarannum said Rafeeq was staying at home since he was released on bail in March. Then, on Wednesday evening, he had gone out saying he would return in a few hours, but never made it. Dhaurahra SHO Hari Om Srivastava said, “We are trying to figure out if Rafeeq was killed while attempting to commit a robbery with his aides. The villagers are not opening their mouth, and our sources have said Rafeeq was beaten to death after he opened fire. But we are yet to collect conclusive evidence. He was a history-sheeter and had gone to jail on several occasions. We have sent his body for autopsy, and will take action after investigation.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/history-sheeter-beaten-to-death-in-kheri-allegedly-during-failed-dacoity/articleshow/75188640.cms||Kanwardeep Singh
April 17, 2020||Lucknow||Uttar Pradesh: Sanitize every house in 269 hotspots, CM Yogi Adityanath tells officials||LUCKNOW: Ending a hiatus of over three weeks, chief minister Yogi Adityanath went to his office in Lok Bhawan on Thursday and resumed regular functioning. All other ministers also resumed work from their offices as did senior officials. On the eve of janata curfew, while announcing a series of measures to curb coronavirus spread, CM Yogi had also asked his ministers to start working from home. CM Yogi had been working from home along with his key officers and had been regularly reviewing the situation and interacting with officers via video conferencing. Yogi, the two deputy chief ministers and other ministers worked with minimum support staff and ensured social distancing in offices while following all preventive measures.In his media briefing that has become a daily feature since coronavirus outbreak, Awanish Awasthi, additional chief secretary (home) told reporters, “The CM has directed all departments to prepare an action plan for the second phase of lockdown to be implemented from April 20 as per Centre’s guidelines. For instance, all industrial and manufacturing units which may be allowed to start functioning from April 20, arrangements need to be ensured for safety of workers and implementation of social distancing. Official orders for various sectors will be issued shortly.” Emergency services in hospitals will also be resumed in the next few days. The CM has made it clear that hospitals will not be granted permission to operate unless they provide personal protective equipment to all health workers and train them in Covid-19 protocol and precautions to be taken in handling patients, he said. CM Yogi also reiterated his earlier order to make telemedicine facilities available across state to ensure that the number of people visiting hospitals is kept to minimum. Awasthi said migrant workers and others who have completed 14 days in shelter homes are now being sent home, but they will have to remain in home quarantine for another 14 days. The CM has directed officials to keep tabs on them and ensure they remain at home till their two week isolation gets over. The decision on sending back people from other states living in quarantine shelters is expected to be taken soon. Currently, the state has 269 hotspots which have been sealed entirely. During review, the CM said each house in the hotspots should be sanitised. He directed officials to improve home delivery services and said no one except medical, sanitization and delivery staff is allowed in the hotspots. Awasthi said that members of Tablighi Jamaat against whom the state has filed FIRs would be lodged in temporary jails for the time being.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/sanitize-every-house-in-269-hotspots-cm-tells-officials/articleshow/75190291.cms||---
April 17, 2020||Vijayawada||Comorbidities, weakened immunity place aged at risk||VIJAYAWADA: Coronavirus deaths in Andhra Pradesh have highlighted the vulnerability of people in their fifties. As per official data 85% of the patients among the 14 deaths were in their fifties. So far, 13 men (including two doctors) and a woman died in five districts between March 30 and April 14. Some tested positive for Covid-19 after their death. Guntur and Krishna districtse continue to top the chart with four deaths each followed by two deaths each in Kurnool, Nellore and Anantapur districts. Officials of the medical and family welfare department said the virus affected the elderly disproportionately and fatally. Of the total 14 Covid-19 deaths, only two deceased (45-years-old in Guntur and 45-year-old in Kurnool) were below 50 years old. Seven were between 50-60 years, three were between 60-70 years and two patients were in the age group of 70-80. Those above 50-years-old account for over 80% of Covid deaths in the state. Besides, comorbidities such as diabetes, asthma, and hypertension in the elderly increase the risk of death, said an official. A senior medical officer S Tirupati Rao said the immune system weakens with age so the risk factor among the aged is very high. Besides, as the body grows old its ability to produce white blood cells reduces and fight viruses weakens, he added. On the other hand, a 65-year-old man in Visakhapatnam recovered and was discharged. The man, who returned from Madina on March 14, tested positive for Covid-19 on March 19. He responded well to the treatment. Meanwhile, the death of a 76-year-old physician after contracting Covid-19 in Kurnool has led to apprehension. Sources said that the doctor owned a private nursing home, located in the Old Town area, and had treated hundreds of people. The district adminitration has begun identifying people who interacted with the doctors and send them to quarantine.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/comorbidities-weakened-immunity-place-aged-at-risk/articleshow/75188633.cms||Nalla.Babu
April 17, 2020||Bareilly||Five test positive in Budaun, Moradabad||Bareilly: Five people — three in Budaun and two in Moradabad districts — tested positive for Covid-19. In Budaun, two people — a 27-year-old man who returned from Delhi on March 24 and a 32-year-old man who gave shelter to a positive case in his house — were tested positive for Covid-19. After the test reports of the duo arrived, the health department shifted them to Bareilly. Meanwhile, a Maharashtra native, also tested positive. With the three fresh cases, the tally in Budaun district reached five. Four patients are undergoing treatment in Bareilly’s Covid-19 level 1 hospital while the fifth patient will also be shifted here. Budaun chief medical officer Dr Yashpal Singh said, “We have quarantined six family members of a 27-year-old man who returned to Jalandari Sarai locality from Delhi. Besides, we have been tracing people who came in contact with him. In another case, a 32-year-old man, a resident of Bhavanipur Khalli village, contracted the virus after coming in contact with a Covid positive member of Tablighi Jamaat whom he had sheltered in his house. A Covid negative member of Tablighi Jamaat, meanwhile, tested positive on Thursday night." Meanwhile, with two fresh cases, the Moradabad district tally rose to 21. District magistrate RK Singh said two Covid positive cases are from other districts, but they are undergoing treatment at a Moradabad facility. “One patient has been discharged after recovering successfully, while one died on Monday night. Now, we have 17 positive cases in Moradabad, while two admitted here from other districts,” he said. Meanwhile, 85 more samples have been sent for lab examination and their reports are awaited. Of the 85, three each are government and private doctors and 11 are those who came in contact with these doctors. Covid nodal officer and ACMO Dr DK Premi said they received 70 reports, out of which only two were positive. Among the two new cases, one is an elder brother of the DU student, who was admitted to a hospital after he tested positive last week. Contacts and travel history of the new patients are being examined to ascertain how they got infected with the deadly virus, added the ACMO.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/five-test-positive-in-budaun-moradabad/articleshow/75188632.cms||---
April 17, 2020||Goa||Restart industries with eye on workers’ health: CII||Panaji: Advocating for a calibrated withdrawal of the ongoing lockdown in the state, the Confederation of Indian Industry (CII) has chalked out a 100-day plan to restart Goa’s industrial sector in a phased manner. CII Goa submitted recommendations to the state government for the revival of Goa's economy after April 20 while simultaneously adhering to health and safety norms. Industry representatives who met chief minister Pramod Sawant said that the government needs to provide clear guidelines and directions for lifting the lockdown. “Necessary precautions as prescribed by the health authorities should be strictly adhered to. Announcing the lockdown or opening in advance will give industry and the society time to plan,” said CII Goa chairman Blaise Costabir. During the meeting, health and safety precautions for the industry, logistical challenges, stranded migrant workers and coordination by government on ease of doing business were also touched upon. Along with Costabir, CII-Goa vice chairman Atul Jadhav also met with Sawant to submit the recommendations. “There is an urgent need to implement confidence measures including providing livelihood opportunities to people at a time when the entire nation and the economy is under a lockdown,” said Jhadav. “For instance, the ongoing infrastructure projects in Goa should be continued and daily works monitored. The state government could also consider front loading the planned expenditure and increase capital expenditure in the state,” said Jhadav. Aside from enhancing the ease of doing business in the state, CII has also stressed on enhancing worker and employee safety with younger employees being asked to return to duty first. “All workers reporting to duty should be tested for temperature spikes twice a day in addition to keeping an eye on symptoms like dry cough and fever,” said Costabir. He also recommended that the government triple the number of buses plying in the state to various industrial estates and to ensure that only one third of a bus is occupied at any given time. CII also submitted sector-specific recommendations concerning logistics and supply chains, pharmaceuticals, MSMEs/SMEs, agriculture and fertilisers, defence and aerospace firms and other sectors.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/restart-industries-with-eye-on-workers-health-cii/articleshow/75190299.cms||---
April 17, 2020||Hubballi||Anjuman urges to allow 5 people to offer prayer at mosque||Dharwad: The department of minority welfare, waqf and haj on Thursday announced the suspension of congregational prayers during the holy month of Ramzan which begins next week. As per the order, nobody shall be allowed to perform five-time daily congregational prayers, including the jumma and taraweeh prayers, in mosques. The azan through the public address system should be at a low decibel. This apart, iftar should not be held and food cannot be distributed at mosques or mohallas. The department has also instructed not to open eateries near mosques during Ramzan. The measures have been taken to contain the spread of Covid-19. President of Anjuman-e-Islam Hubballi Yusuf Savanur said that the organisation has been asking community members to adhere to the guidelines issued by the government and offer prayers during Ramzan at their houses. “This exercise of sending messages through social networking will continue till the end of Ramzan,” he said. During a video conference with home minister Basavaraj Bommai on Wednesday evening, the Anjuman-e-Islam urged the government to allow five people to gather at mosques and offer taraweeh prayers. “The Islamic laws say that a minimum of five persons should offer taraweeh prayers and the same was conveyed to the government. This apart, the government has been asked to allow dry fruits and fresh fruit stalls at some locations so that people can break their everyday fast. The stalls will ensure social distancing and can be opened for limited time,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hubballi/anjuman-urges-to-allow-5-people-to-offer-prayer-at-mosque/articleshow/75190586.cms||GURURAJ JAMKHANDI
April 17, 2020||Mangaluru||Youths from Puttur who lived in car for 21 days in Gujrat get shelter||Mangaluru: Ashiq Hussain from Samethadka and Mohammed Thakeen from Kemminje village in Puttur taluk of Dakshina Kannada district, who were living in their car at Bhilad in Gujarat for the past 21 day, have finally got an accommodation. While Valsad district administration and police reached out to the two youths offering support, owner of a nearby apartment gave them a flat to stay till the lockdown is lifted. Dakshina Kannada deputy commissioner Sindhu B Rupesh had sent a mail to her counterpart in Valsad district of Gujarat requesting for food and accommodation for the duo. Hussain and Thakeen were on a business tour to find market for arecanut in Gujarat. They had left Rajkot after their work on March 20, but on their way back to Mangaluru, they were stopped at a checkpost at Umbergaon in Bhilad of Valsad district after the lockdown announcement. Following this, they made their car their home and were sleeping in it. Social worker Rasheed Vitla, who brought the issue to the notice of Dakshina Kannada DC, told TOI that two youths have been given a flat to live after the issue was highlighted in media. “Soon after the issue was brought to the notice of Valsad district administration, policemen rushed to help them. Though they wanted Hussain and Thakeen to be shifted to a quarantine facility, a local resident offered a flat on his own risk,” Vitla said. Ashiq said, “Because of our plight was highlighted in media, the issue was brought to the notice of police and district administration here. Local social worker Kashaf Sayyed, who was providing food for us, has given a flat for us to stay.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mangaluru/youths-from-puttur-who-lived-in-car-for-21-days-in-gujrat-get-shelter/articleshow/75188651.cms||---
April 17, 2020||Goa||Goa: Schedule for admission to professional courses to change||PANAJI: The Goa Common Entrance Test (GCET), scheduled to be held on May 5 and 6, now stands deferred and will be conducted either in June or thereafter, the directorate of technical education (DTE) has said. As the National eligibility cum entrance test (NEET) has also been postponed, the entire admission schedule for professional degree programme seats in Goa will be revised and announced later, the directorate has stated. “DTE Centralized Admission Division hereby informs that in view of the Covid-19 pandemic, GCET-2020 scheduled to be conducted on May 5 and 6 is deferred. New dates are subject to announcement of JEE and NEET dates as well as any other exigencies,” the directorate has said. The exact dates for GCET will be announced 10 days before the conduct of the examination, the DTE has said. While the GCET is held for admissions to engineering and pharmacy degree programme seats in Goa, NEET scores are applicable for admissions to medicine, dentistry, homeopathy, ayurveda, nursing and five allied health degree programme seats in Goa. “The schedule of all other admission related activities notified in the prospectus will also be revised, and duly notified,” DTE has stated. Around 3,400 students appear for the GCET. Last month, DTE had only said it had indefinitely deferred the process of accepting forms to appear for the GCET. The forms were to be accepted from March 26 to April 1. However, the postponement of GCET had not been announced. As per the earlier admission schedule to professional degree programmes, the DTE was to accept filled admission forms from students, who have answered the admission tests, from May 15 to May 22.  The provisional merit list for admissions to engineering and pharmacy programmes was to be displayed on June 10 and the first round of admission was to begin from June 15.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/schedule-for-admission-to-prof-courses-to-change/articleshow/75190309.cms||---
April 17, 2020||Goa||All at sea about seamen, government plans Goan diaspora database||MARGAO: Lack of readily available data about seafarers with the state authorities as well as with the seafarers’ organisation sent the government scrambling to source the information through multiple sources. This, in turn, led to a delay in compiling the list of Goan seafarers stranded overseas or in deep seas. Interestingly, when the state NRI commission initiated the compilation of data of Goan NRIs last October, the exercise was stalled by the Covid-19 outbreak that occurred just a couple of months later. “Let’s admit it; for whatever reasons, we don’t have data of Goans settled abroad or of Goan NRIs,” commissioner of NRI affairs Narendra Sawaikar told TOI. A few months after assuming his post in July 2019, Sawaikar said he had moved a file stating that there should be some mechanism in place by which data concerning Goans settled abroad could be collected and compiled. “One of the objectives of the NRI commission is to interact with overseas Indians of Goan origin on a regular basis and address their needs and concerns,” he said. “Over the past six months, the commission has been regularly interacting with Goan organisations in various parts of the world – Australia, UK, UAE, Canada, etc. We have also held two ‘Global Goans’ conventions. All this will help us in compiling the data,” Sawaikar said. The NRI commission plans to reach out to the Goan diaspora through social media platforms for the purpose of preparing its database. “We have already initiated the process and will complete it soon,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/all-at-sea-about-seamen-govt-plans-goan-diaspora-database/articleshow/75335380.cms||---
April 17, 2020||Business||Nasscom wants phased return of staff to offices||Bengaluru: IT industry body Nasscom has proposed a phased return of employees back into offices, with the process being completed by June end. In the first phase between April 15 and 30, Nasscom has said it is critical to ensure employee safety, and has suggested that no more than 10%-15% of the workforce should travel to office. “The percentage of employees per centre will follow this cap and only will be applicable for areas that are in the safe zone. In case there is critical infrastructure like data centres in some red zones, it is requested that a suitable process with all precautions be announced for only mission critical employees to operate this critical infrastructure,” Nasscom said in a note, a copy of which TOI has. Between May 1 and 15, it is recommended that the percentage of employees be increased to 20%-30%, based on the success of the first phase. In phase 3, from May 15 to 30, the ratio can be increased to 30%-50%, Nasscom said. Post the lockdown, almost 90% of the employees have been enabled to work from home. For the BPM sector however, only 60-70% is productive as the sector operates in 2-3 shifts and each seat has a desktop that is shared amongst the shifts. “…but almost 30% of the workforce cannot be deployed due to lack of technology assets and/or contractual client permissions. While it varies across companies, productivity from WFH model is unfortunately still low and is impacting the industry revenues,” Nasscom said. It has recommended that all international business travel be suspended for the first four weeks, except for exceptional cases whereby employees who are stranded outside the country due to expiry of visa need to travel to India. All domestic travel is also proposed to be suspended for the first two weeks, except in extraordinary circumstances with the approval of the organisation's management.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/nasscom-wants-phased-return-of-staff-to-offices/articleshow/75190316.cms||Shilpa Phadnis
April 17, 2020||Lucknow||Total 25 new cases in Lucknow, Uttar Pradesh’s day tally reaches 82||LUCKNOW: With a leap of 82 new cases, UP's Covid-19 tally touched 809 on Thursday. Among the new cases, 47 were linked the Tablighi Jamaat, taking the number of patients linked to the Nizamudin congregation to 475. The state also recorded the 13th coronavirus death during the day. As many as 25 new cases were reported in Lucknow. With this, the state capital jumped to the second spot behind Agra (167) with an overall tally of 100, including 73 TJ cases. CMO Narendra Agarwal said: “The reports came in two batches. In the morning, two person from Nayagaon Nazirabad tested positive while in the evening 23 persons from Sadar hotspot were found to be suffering from the infection. All the 25 cases belong to the TJ group.” Agra remained on the top position with 167 cases. It added 18 new cases, including two with TJ links, on Thursday. CMO Mukesh Vats said: “Nine persons were related to a tour guide in Fatehhpur Sikri area, four health workers on Covid-19 duty at SN medical college, two TJ contacts and the remaining were contacts of previous patients.” Agra also recorded its fifth and state’s 13th coronavirus death. According to an official statement from DM Agra, Prabhu N Singh: “The deceased, a 64- year-old person with history of chronic kidney disease and hypertension, tested positive for the infection on April 10. He underwent dialysis at the SN medical College but his condition deteriorated after which he died.” Kanpur, Meerut and Bijnore recorded four cases each – all related to TJ. “District tally is now 22 with 20 TJ cases,” said Kanpur CMO Ashok Shukla. Meerut CMO Raj Kumar said: “The total number of TJ cases in district with the new cases reached 45 with an overall tally of 69.” “All the 13 cases in Bijnore belong to TJ category,” said district health officials. Firozabad and Badaun recorded two cases each. Firozabad CMO SK Dixit said: "Both the patients had come in contact with TJ attendees taking the tally to 27 including 15 TJ cases.” Like Bijnore, Badaun also has only TJ cases. One TJ case each in Jaunpur and Baghpat took district tally to five and 15 respectively. New entries to list of affected districts – Unnao and Sant Kabir Nagar recorded one case each – both related to TJ. GB Nagar reported 12 cases, a three-year-old child, taking its total to 92. CMO AP Chaturvedi said: “The new cases are primarily contacts of previous cases. The list includes a three-year-old child whose parents had tested positive.” Kannauj and another new entrant Mainpuri also recorded four and two cases respectively. Mainpuri DM Mahendra Bahadur Singh said: “The two patients - aged 63 and 26 – worked at Agra’s Paras hospital which has been declared as a major hotspot." Health officials said that the new cases in Kannauj are relatives of a migrant who returned from Rajasthan.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/25-new-cases-in-lucknow-ups-day-tally-reaches-82/articleshow/75190307.cms||Shailvee Sharda
April 17, 2020||Amaravati||Masks to be handed out in red zones, focus on containment||AMARAVATI: Chief minister YS Jaganmohan Reddy has directed the administration to focus on hot spots for effective containment of Covid-19 in the state. He said that district collectors and SPs should take adequate measures to maintain social distancing in markets and other public places. He asked the officials to start distribution of masks from red zone areas and the districts which have reported higher number of cases. The chief minister took stock of the Covid-19 containment measures with the ministers and senior officials at the camp office on Thursday. He asked officials to ensure payment of Rs 2,000 to every poor person who stayed at quarantine centre at the time of discharge. He said that the officials should encourage the discharged people to utilise the money to procure protein food such as eggs and milk. TheCM said that proper awareness should be created among the people that virus might contract them if they did not take nutritious food. “We are keeping them in quarantine facilities are a precautionary measure and discharging them empty handed will result in hunger at home. This should not happen at any cost,” said Jagan. The CM asked the marketing department to be innovative to bring the agriculture produce from the field to the market to help the farmers. He asked officials to track down the new markets for sale of the stocks from the state and ship out the produces wherever there is demand. He said that officials should work overtime to see that no farmer suffer losses. The CM asked the officials to closely coordinate with the district collectors and get reports about the grievances of horticulture crops farmers. He also asked the fisheries department to adopt similar innovative practices to transport stocks to the new markets in the country. He said that fish could also be sold in the local markets without giving scope for rush of crowd. The chief minister asked the officials to display the lists of beneficiaries of Rythu Bharosa scheme in the village secretariats and Rythu Bharosa Kendra (RBKs). He said that officials should ensure proper internet facility in all the RBKs. The CM said that Matsyakara bharosa beneficiaries’ lists should also be put up for display in the secretariats.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/amaravati/masks-to-be-handed-out-in-red-zones-focus-on-containment/articleshow/75188660.cms||Samdani MN
April 17, 2020||Goa||Goa: Testing kiosks set up at MPT to screen seafarers||PANAJI: Two testing facilities are being set up – one at the Mormugao port and the other at Patradevi checkpost— so that the seafarers returning home can be tested for Covid-19.Health minster Vishwajit Rane on Thursday said the kiosk for collecting samples for the test is ready. Similar kiosks with testing facilities will be set up at the borders and other locations in the state, he said. At the state executive committee meeting on Covid-19 chaired by chief secretary Parimal Rai, health secretary Nila Mohanan shared the plan to test and quarantine the incoming seafarers, as per the SOP issued by the Union ministry of homes affairs. The health department intends to complete the testing within 24 hours and these seafarers will remain onboard the ship till the results of the tests are clear, the SEC was informed. If tested negative, they should be shifted to an institutional quarantine facility for 14 days, and if tested positive, they should be shifted to the Covid Hospital in Margao. Mohanan also said that the priority to deploy kiosks (to collect samples safely) has changed after the MHAs clearance for the seafarers to sign off at the port. In the first stage, four kiosks would be set up at MPT. After taking the sample by swab, the testing will be done at a facility at Bicholim, which is being set up now. She also informed that seamen who want to resume duty on the ships need to get their tests done by private agencies at their own cost.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/testing-kiosks-set-up-at-mpt-to-screen-seafarers/articleshow/75335405.cms||---
April 17, 2020||Coimbatore||Savings drained out, I borrowed Rs 20,000 to run my family||C Sobinath earns Rs 800-900 daily crisscrossing the city by driving his passenger autorickshaw 10-12 hours a day. His auto has been lying idle in front of his house for the past 23 days with the lockdown in place.The 31-year-old from Veerapandi Pirivu is now worried about running his family with no earning all these days. Residing in a rental home along with his mother Revathy, Sobinath is yet to pay the rent of Rs 5,800 for April. “We depend on daily earnings only. Due to the lockdown, I was not able to ride the autorickshaw. I paid the EMI of Rs 7,000 for my auto from my savings and borrowed Rs 20,000 to run the family. We are not allowed to take even patients to hospitals, police threaten to seize our autos. So, our revenue has stopped completely,” Sobinath said.He requested the government to provide some assistance to all the auto drivers in the state. It would help them to tide over this hard time, he added.Sobinath’s uncle R Senthilkumar is also an auto driver. Senthilkumar, 44, is living with his wife Vanaja, two daughters, both school going, and his mother Kannammal. He pays Rs 4,000 as monthly rental to his house and Rs 6,000 as EMI for the auto. Senthilkumar used to earn 20,000 per month.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/savings-drained-out-i-borrowed-rs-20000-to-run-my-family/articleshow/75189608.cms||---
April 17, 2020||Business||NoBroker raises $30m as part of Series D funding||Bengaluru: Real estate platform NoBroker said it raised $30 million as part of its Series D funding, which was led by private equity firm General Atlantic. This is an extension to the $50 million raised in October which had participation from General Atlantic and Tiger Global. Till date, the company has raised $151 million. NoBroker helps people looking to buy or lease an apartment to avoid brokers. The company currently operates across six cities in the country. It bought society management and ERP solutions company Society Connect in an all-cash deal in February. “We have been tripling our revenue every year and this funding will help us further improve user experience and enable faster deal closures,” said Amit Kumar, CEO and co-founder. The funding will also be used to expand its presence in the six cities it operates and the target is to be present in 25 cities in the next three years. Post the fund raise, General Atlantic holds 30% of the company, Tiger Global 10%, SAIF Partners 23% and the three founders about 20%. The company is valued at about $372 million, as per reports. NoBroker expects to be profitable at the company level in three years.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/nobroker-raises-30m-as-part-of-series-d-funding/articleshow/75190336.cms||---
April 17, 2020||Pune||Pune: Civic body expands flu clinics to 74 locations||PUNE: The Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) has further expanded services of the flu clinics across the city as part of the Covid-19 containment plan. The number of flu clinics has increased from six to 74, with each ward having between three to four clinics to offer basic medical services. Every clinic conducts check-ups for flu, cough, sneezing and people showing symptoms akin to Covid-19 are referred to Naidu Hospital or Sassoon General Hospital. The administration has so far screened over 2.24 lakh people and treated 58,800 patients having flu-like symptoms at the clinics. The civic administration has appealed to citizens with symptoms of cold, flu and sneezing to visit the local clinic, without any delay. Officials from PMC’s health department said, “The clinics are located at PMC-run hospitals, dispensaries, maternity homes, two mobile clinics and PMC’s Kamla Nehru Hospital at Mangalwar Peth.” Adequate medical staff and doctors have been deployed at every clinic to screen patients. Each clinic remains open throughout the day. PMC’s health department said that of all the people screened so far, about 823 were referred to Naidu Hospital and Sassoon General Hospital for further check-up. About 497 people were referred to Sasson Hospital and 326 to Naidu Hospital for further treatment. A senior civic official said, “We are taking all efforts to increase screening of symptomatic citizens. People should not hesitate to visit clinics in case of any symptoms instead of settling for self-medication. The administration has also introduced mobile vans to cover sealed areas where coronavirus cases have increased.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/civic-body-expands-flu-clinics-to-74-locations/articleshow/75190330.cms||Sarang Dastane
April 17, 2020||Goa||School at Cujira leads community initiative to produce free face shields||Panaji: Doing its bit in the battle against Covid-19, the Dr K B Hedgewar High School at Cujira is distributing sterilised 3D printed face-shields free of cost to frontline medical workers. Chintamani Shirodkar of the Atal Tinkering Lab at Dr KB Hedgewar School said that while the idea to work on these shields was their initiative, manufacturing was a “community” endeavour. They began work on the face shields from March 22 and the Goa State Innovation Council finding them “highly effective, economical and a convenient solution compared to the various face shields currently available in the market” has now collaborated with the school to produce these face shields. “Overwhelmed by the positive response and the demand for our face shields, we started working on decentralised and outsourced manufacturing. For this, we approached a few ATL schools, a few startup 3D manufacturers, Goa Science Centre and Goa State Innovation Council,” Shirodkar said. The manufacturing teams include two of the school’s ex students and now mentors at the ATL, Hrishikesh Bhandari and Sanket Marathe, students from the L D Samanth School’s ATL, Nupur Narvekar and Nishant Kale, Carl De Souza of Schematter in Mapusa, Akhilesh Bhise of Innovent in Curtorim, and Goa Science Centre at Miramar. “Bhandari and Marathe then sterilise, assemble and pack the shields. It is a sort of community manufacturing,” said Shirodkar. It took a few trials before the school zeroed in on the present design. “Josef Prusa, the founder of Prusa Research, inspired us to start working on this initiative. We then took trial prints where it was observed that the bed size of the 3D printer available wasn’t adequate and the print needed six hours of printing time,” said Shirodkar. “Hence, we searched for different face shields and zeroed on the design provided by 3D Verkstan, Sweden,” he added. The face shields, are to be worn over the face masks as an added protection, and 40 have already been provided to the Goa Medical College, Asilo and the quarantine centres. The team has now upped its capacity to be able to manufacture 75 face shields in a day. One major challenge faced by the lab due to the lockdown was the procurement of PLA filaments and a new 3D printer, which was later procured by the lab with help from , Robokidz Eduventures from Pune, Rajendra Gaunekar, Goa State Innovation Council and a former MLA. The lab has now committed to producing and donating 1,000 face shields to the Medical Store Depot of the state. The entire project is being self-funded through the Hedgewar PTA and contributions from Panaji’s Mahalaxmi Trust, the school said. “These face shields feature an ergonomic design and are extremely lightweight so that one can wear them for hours without any inconvenience. This low-cost, re-usable shield can be easily sterilised and provides an effective shield against coronavirus,” said the innovation council. The council said that they have recently provided a batch of f24 face shields to the Goa Waste Management Corporation.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/school-at-cujira-leads-community-initiative-to-produce-free-face-shields/articleshow/75190326.cms||Gauree Malkarnekar
April 17, 2020||Pune||Pune: Morning walkers, joggers run into trouble with cops for defying order||PUNE: Morning joggers who stepped out in defiance of the lockdown ran face first into the law. In a coordinated action, dubbed ‘Operation All Out’, the Pune police caught hundreds of walkers, joggers and people out for no valid reason on Thursday. “Despite creating massive awareness among people not to come out on the roads, we have found a large number of people continuing to come out for their morning walk. We then took a call to take strong action against them on Wednesday,” joint commissioner of Pune police Ravindra Shisve said. “Police teams led by senior inspectors and assistant commissioners of police visited various places and took action against the joggers. We asked the joggers to do exercise and yoga,” Shisve said. The errant joggers and citizens were booked — and their vehicles seized — for disobedience under sections 188 and 269 of the Indian Penal Code and Epidemic Diseases Act. Joggers who were caught gave many reasons — purchasing vegetables, furnishing old medical prescriptions, repairing table fans and procuring LPG cylinders. A couple with children were among other wanderers caught. “We caught 150 joggers on Shankarsheth Road, Satara Road and Solapur Road and Tilak Road. None of them had valid reasons for being out. We made them sit under the Seven Loves flyover and sensitized them. We booked all of them and seized their vehicles; they were allowed to go home in phases,” senior inspector Bramhanand Naikawdi of the Swargate police said. The Bibvewadi police caught 120 joggers at Mahesh Society Chowk and Swami Vivekanand Road. “We asked them to do yoga. We issued notices to 70 elderly people and have filed cases against 40 others,” sub-inspector Atul Thorat said. In Kondhwa, which is a containment zone, 60 joggers were caught on NIBM Annexe Road. “Most of them were not wearing masks. We told them to do yoga and sensitized them on the situation. We deflated the tyres of their vehicles. We registered 30 cases and issued notices to 30 others,” inspector Mahadev Kumbhar said. Forty-five people were issued notices in Parnakuti, Shastrinagar and Ramwadi in Yerawada police station limits. “We have also taken action against 18 joggers and seized 16 vehicles. Some people tried to argue with the police, while others tried to justify themselves,” senior inspector Yunus Shaikh said. The Hadapsar police said people don’t seem to understand the seriousness of the situation. “We have caught 48 people at Gliding Centre, Ravidarshan and near Serum Company. Some apologized, and others failed to give valid reasons. We have filed 14 cases,” inspector Humraj Kumbhar from the Hadapsar police said. The Sahakarnagar police found eight men loitering and made them do sit-ups as punishment. A dozen joggers — without masks — were caught by Chatushrungi police between Sakalnagar and Baner Phata, and ITI road in Aundh. “We asked them to return home but they refused, forcing us to prosecute them,” senior inspector Anil Shewale said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/defiant-morning-joggers-run-into-trouble-with-cops/articleshow/75190325.cms||Asseem Shaikh
April 17, 2020||Agra||Agra’s first 100-bed multispecialty Covid-19 facility becomes functional||AGRA: Agra got its first a state-of-the-art 100-bed multispecialty centre for novel coronavirus patients. After a round of sanitisation and dry run, the facility at SN Medical College will start its operations on Friday. A team from the World Health Organization (WHO) inspected the facility on Tuesday and gave its approval with a "few suggestions". The facility equipped with modern machines has been developed at the maternal and child health (MCH) wing of SNMC. The MCH department has been shifted to the Lady Lyall hospital. The location to develop the facility was chosen to ensure complete isolation and no scope for spread of the virus. Talking to TOI on Thursday, district magistrate Prabhu N Singh said, "After starting the Covid-19 testing facility at the microbiology lab of the SNMC, all the required arrangements were made to start operations of a multispecialty treatment facility for Covid-19 patients. The state-of-the-art isolation centre have a labour room to attend to pregnant women with Covid-19 infection. It has an operation theater and an intensive care unit. If required, dialysis can also be done here. The facility has been developed following guidelines of the ministry of health and family planning. It also fulfills the WHO standards." So far, the Covid-19 infected patients were admitted to the emergency ward of the medical college. Now, the place with 58 beds will be used for screening people and quarantine them. In-charge of the Covid-19 centre, Dr Prashant Gupta said, “The multispecialty facility has been developed to ensure the patients do not face any inconvenience and best possible treatment can be provided to them. Adequate arrangement of ventilators and other equipment have been made at the centre. A dedicated team of 30 health staffers will run the facility." Deputy in-charge of the centre Dr Akhil Pratap Singh said, “The facility has all the arrangement to even attend to any child infected of coronavirus. The entire premises will remain under the surveillance of CCTV cameras. A modern control room connected with public address system has also been set up at the centre to manage the operations better." Chief medical officer of Agra district Dr Mukesh Kumar Vats said, “The facility will start its operations from Friday onwards. It will be a major boost to our efforts for providing best possible treatment to coronavirus-infected patients. Besides, the facility - developed in a separate block - will ensure that other patients and their caretakers do not get infected. We have determined a standard operating procedure from the start - when the patient arrives to the centre till being cured of infection and discharged from the hospital."||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/agra/agras-first-100-bed-multispecialty-covid-19-facility-becomes-functional/articleshow/75188680.cms||Deepak Lavania
April 17, 2020||Lucknow||Medical colleges asked to return ‘low quality’ PPE in Uttar Pradesh||LUCKNOW: Following complaints by government medical colleges in Meerut and Noida about ‘inferior quality’ of personal protective equipment (PPE) supplied to them, the institutes have been asked to return the kits. The director general of medical education (DGME) has written to 24 other state medical colleges and institutes to not use PPEs which are not up to the standard and return them immediately. The kits were supplied through UP Medical Supplies and Drug Corporation (UPSDC), which contradicted the claim and said that the same kits were used for swine flu treatment. The letter from DGME Dr KK Gupta, that TOI is in possession of, states that GIMC Noida and Meerut Medical College indicate to the directorate of medical education that the kits from UPSDC were of ‘inferior quality.’ “The length of the overall gowns was not as per standards,” Dr Gupta told TOI. “The institutes have been advised to not use the kits if they find any problem with them. They would then be provided with the best PPE kits as per guidelines of Union government,” he added. Late on Thursday, Dr Gupta claimed that after he protested, the inferior quality PPEs had been changed in the three medical colleges of Agra, Meerut and Noida. However, he said that it was a serious lapse and he had received complaints from the colleges. UPSDC, however, maintains that the kits were of standard quality and had no lapse anywhere. UPSDC managing director Shruti Singh said, “There is absolutely no problem in the quality of the kits. They are ISO certified ones which have also been technically cleared by experts.”  The same PPE is used for swine flu and they were procured before the central government guidelines on Covid-19 had come. The length is appropriate and they even come with shoe covers. Medical colleges use these kits.” On the issue raised by the two medical colleges, she said, “I will find out what has to be done.” The DGME’s letter dated April 13 is addressed to heads of Lucknow’s KGMU, RMLIMS, SGPGI, UP College of Medical Sciences in Saifai, GIMC Noida, SSCH PGIT Noida, medical colleges of Kanpur, Agra, Prayagraj, Meerut, Jhansi, Gorakhpur, Kannauj, Jalaun, Banda, Badaun, Saharanpur, Ambedkarnagar and Azamgarh and autonomous state medical colleges.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/medical-colleges-asked-to-return-low-quality-ppe/articleshow/75190322.cms||Yusra Husain
April 17, 2020||Vijayawada||Andhra CM wants more skill training centres||VIJAYAWADA: Chief minister Y S Jaganmohan Reddy on Thursday told officials to start skill training centres in every assembly constituency. Speaking to officials at a review on skill development programme, the chief minister told the officials to have own buildings for these skill development centres. The chief minister told the officials to have constant interaction with the industry to identify their needs in employment sector. The youth trained in the skill development centres should suit to the employment requirements of the industry coming up in their area, he said. Later, the Skill Development Corporation donated Rs 50 lakh to the chief minister’s relief fund. The amount was collected from employees of the corporation.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/cm-wants-more-skill-training-centres/articleshow/75188695.cms||---
April 17, 2020||Pune||3-day shutdown in Khadki from today||Pimpri Chinchwad: The Khadki Cantonment Board (KCB) has announced three-day lockdown from Friday after another person from the area tested positive for Covid-19 on Thursday.Pramod Singh, chief executive officer, KCB, said, “The police had requested a lockdown after the second positive person was found in Khadki bazaar. We have also found that people are not maintaining social distancing and venturing out of their houses unnecessarily”. He said banks, ATMs, petrol pumps and medical shops were exempted from the lockdown. Milk can be sold only up to 10am on these three days.About the new case, Singh said, “A resident of Khadki bazaar came for treatment at the cantonment-run Babasaheb Ambedkar General Hospital on Thursday. The doctors on seeing his symptoms tested him for Covid-19 and he was found to be positive. He has been sent to the Aundh Hospital for further treatment. His eight family members have been admitted in the cantonment hospital as a precautionary measure and they will be tested for Covid-19. If anyone of them is found to be positive then will be sent to Pimpri Chinchwad Municipal Corporation-run Yashwantrao Chavan Memorial or Aundh hospital. Those who test negative will be sent home for quarantine.”A resident of Khadki bazaar had tested positive around a week ago and is admitted in YCM hospital. “We have sealed the surrounding area as a precautionary measure. The new positive person stays around 300 metre from the previous patient’s house,” Singh said.Officials of district administration and doctors of Aundh hospital inspected the cantonment hospital on Thursday. The isolation ward created at the hospital can accommodate 30 persons. “Now we are starting facility to test swab samples at the hospital for quick result,” a district official said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/3-day-shutdown-in-khadki-from-today/articleshow/75190347.cms||Siddharth Gaikwad
April 17, 2020||Agra||Disabled man shoots woman dead over property dispute, crime caught on camera||AGRA: A crippled man, holding a rusty country-made pistol, crawled himself to a woman, 62, who was washing utensils and shot her dead in UP’s Kasganj district over a property dispute, a brutal crime which was caught on mobile phone camera and shared widely. The incident occurred at 10.30am on Thursday in Hodalpur village of Soron police jurisdiction, about 150km away from Agra. The deceased was identified as Shyamvati, a neighbour of the accused Dev Kishan Bashisht alias Monu. After more than an hour long search, police nabbed the accused from his friend’s home, where he was found hiding. Before been taken to police station, Monu told local media that he shot Shyamvati over a property dispute. “She was selling the property to a Muslim family,” he said while being lifted into a police vehicle. Speaking to TOI, Sushil Ghule, superintendent of police (SP) of Kasganj, said, “Initial investigation revealed that the accused wanted to illegally takeover the victim’s house. She lived alone after her husband chose an ascetic life and left. We found that one of the relatives of the accused had sold the house to the woman, and now she was planning to resell the house for money.” In the minute-long video, the accused can be seen loading his country-made pistol multiple times before shooting Shyamvati who attempted to escape the fire. “It was a horrific murder and the video too is ghastly. Don’t understand why anyone did not attempt to save the woman instead of making video,” SP Ghule said. “Monu, don’t shoot. Leave her. Somebody save her,” people could be heard shouting in the background of the footage. “As soon as the lockdown ends, we will move court to appeal for a fast trial. We have enough evidence against him. An FIR will also be lodged against Monu’s friend who gave him shelter to hide. We are also exploring the legal action against the local residents, who didn’t call police and neither went to rescue the woman but instead chose to shoot the video,” the police officer said. Monu has been booked under IPC's section 302 (murder) and 25 of the Arms Act.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/agra/disabled-man-shoots-woman-dead-over-property-dispute-crime-caught-on-cam/articleshow/75188693.cms||---
April 17, 2020||Vadodara||Don’t take names of Covid patients: Vadodara CP||Vadodara: Police department has urged Vadodara Municipal Corporation (VMC) not to give out details of persons who test positive for coronavirus before they are hospitalized. City police commissioner Anupam Singh wrote a letter to municipal commissioner Nalin Upadhyay on Tuesday and urged him to keep details and names of such patients a secret. Gahlaut said in his letter that names of persons who tested positive for coronavirus after mass sampling in Nagarwada and Saiyyadpura on April 7 went public even before they could be taken to hospital. The list of names went viral on WhatsApp and it caused panic in the concerned localities. Gahlaut said those who test positive for the virus may abscond or take some extreme step if they are not hospitalized first. ‘Hence, it’s better to not make names of those who test positive from Nagarwada and Saiyyadpura area public before they are sent to hospital,’ Gahlaut said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/dont-take-names-of-covid-patients-vadodara-cp/articleshow/75188389.cms||---
April 17, 2020||Lucknow||IVRI gets ICMR nod to conduct Covid-19 tests in Uttar Pradesh||LUCKNOW: Indian Veterinary Research Institute (IVRI), working in the field of veterinary medicine and allied branches, has volunteered to join fight against novel coronavirus infection. IVRI has got Indian Council of Medical Research’s (ICMR) nod for starting Covid-19 testing facility. According to reports, director, IVRI, Dr R K Singh told principal secretary, medical education, Rajneesh Dubey that the institute has bio safety level-two and level-three microbiology labs and it has been conducting coronovirus tests on animals for years. Singh stated that IVRI could conduct novel coronavirus testing on human beings provided it would get the ICMR's permission. Immediately after getting the IVRI offer, Dubey contacted chief minister Yogi Adityanath who gave him signal to do the needful. The principal secretary then approached ICMR authorities to seek their approval and the required NOC was obtained in less than three days. Talking to TOI, the IVRI director said that pooling of resources is key to tackle pandemics like Covid-19. IVRI's involvement in the Covid fight also highlights the government's approach in tackling zoonotic diseases affecting the man and the animal,” he said adding that “IVRI has been conducting coronavirus tests on bovines, birds and horses.” Singh, who is also vice- chancellor of the prestigious institute which is credited with developing drugs and vaccines for animals, said that with its research work the institute has succeeded in completely eradicating several diseases afflicting animals. IVRI was established by Britishers and post-independence it came under control of the government of India and was handed over to the Union agriculture ministry’s Indian Council of Agriculture Research. Apart from Bareilly IVRI has campuses in Bengaluru, Bhopal, Kolkata and Srinagar. In normal circumstances anybody talking about conducting human tests at an institute devoted to develop animal vaccines and medicines would have caused a flutter. “But the novel coronavirus pandemic has changed the thinking process. In this crisis times IVRI is trying to offer its services to the mankind,” Dubey said adding that “IVRI would start conducting Covid-19 tests as soon as it would get PPE and other paraphernalia needed for it.” IVRI with the infrastructure of conducting at least 200 tests every day would help in reducing burden on medical colleges in western UP where the backlog is increasing day by day, said the principal secretary who has been appointed chairman of a high-powered committee to recommend ways to set up modern microbiology labs in the state.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/ivri-gets-icmr-nod-to-conduct-covid-19-tests/articleshow/75190338.cms||Subhash Mishra
April 17, 2020||Pune||PMC vows repeat survey in high-risk areas||Pune: The civic body will repeat the door-to-door survey in the high-risk zones to check the spread of Covid-19. At present, the Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) is conducting survey in the sealed and other areas. Over 790 civic teams have covered eight lakh houses as part of the survey till Thursday. “The survey is on across the city. It will be repeated in areas that have reported a high number of Covid-19 cases and also casualties,” said Vaishali Jadhav, a senior official in the PMC’s health department. The administration is also planning to deploy additional mobile vans in the sealed areas for on-the-spot health check-ups of symptomatic people.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/pmc-vows-repeat-survey-in-high-risk-areas/articleshow/75190352.cms||Sarang Dastane
April 17, 2020||Nagpur||HC seeks status of Saibaba’s plea for parole||NAGPUR: Delhi University professor GN Saibaba, convicted for being part of Naxalite movement, moved the high court here for directives to Maharashtra government to decide on his application for parole. Justice Vinay Joshi hen directed the respondents, including deputy inspector general (DIG) of prisons in city, to inform the court about status of Maoist leader’s application. “It’s informed that the application for grant of parole is under consideration before the competent authority. The government is directed to inform the status of his application on next date,” the judge said. While adjourning the hearing till April 20, the judge also asked the respondents to convey to the petitioner if any orders are passed on his application through all possible modes. Saibaba, who was convicted by the Gadchiroli court for anti-national activities on March 7, 2017, and subsequently awarded the life term, had applied for parole through his brother on April 2. He had routed his application through DIG, who forwarded it to divisional commissioner with his recommendations on April 8. Since then, the application is pending forcing him to knock the judiciary’s doors. In reply to HC’s notice, the DIG informed he didn’t have powers to decide on applications for offences under Unlawful Activities (Prevention) Act (UAPA) along with Section 120B of IPC. Therefore, he forwarded it to the competent authority, the divisional commissioner. Saibaba contended that he suffered 90% disability and regularly needed physiotherapy, occupational therapy and hydrotherapy for staying fit.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/hc-seeks-status-of-saibabas-plea-for-parole/articleshow/75189691.cms||Vaibhav Ganjapure
April 17, 2020||Agra||Teenage girl hangs self in Agra, leaves 3-page suicide note||AGRA: A teenage girl allegedly committed suicide on Thursday. Her body was found hanging inside her rented house in Agra’s Shanti Nagar. The high school student has left a three-page suicide note, blaming her father, two uncles and a cousin for her extreme step. According to police, the girl lived with her mother and two siblings. Her mother is the second wife of her father. “The girl was in deep distress. In her suicide note, she has alleged that members of her father’s family, including uncle, cousin and father himself, used to mentally torture her mother. We found the suicide note along with a country-made pistol. A probe is on to ascertain the sequence of events, and cause of the ‘suicide’,” said SHO Kamlesh Kumar Singh of Sadar police station. An FIR of abetment to suicide was lodged against four persons based on the suicide note.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/agra/teenage-girl-hangs-self-leaves-3-pg-suicide-note/articleshow/75188709.cms||---
April 17, 2020||Hyderabad||Supermarket sealed for defying norms||HYDERABAD: After a citizen complained to the directorate of Enforcement Vigilance and Disaster Management, GHMC, against a supermarket in Srinagar Colony, EVDM officials on Thursday sealed it. “Officials inspected Ratnadeep supermarket in Srinagar Colony. Officials found the staff was not equipped with safety gear such as gloves, etc,” GHMC said. According to officials, the staffers were not maintaining social distancing and at billing counters, they did not manage the queue properly.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/supermarketsealed-for-defying-norms/articleshow/75189682.cms||---
April 17, 2020||Coimbatore||This variety rice sellers now depend on PDS shop for their own food||With the extension of the lockdown till May 3, N Gurusamy,48, and his wife are a worried lot.Eking out a living by selling variety rice at Cowley Brown Road near RS Puram, the couple used to get more than 100 customers in a day. They started their work early in the morning to prepare variety rice. To transport the packed food from their house at Narasimmanaickenpalayam to RS Puram, the couple had bought an omni van for an EMI of Rs 2,500. They are residing in a house along with their son G Ashok Kumar, an engineering student, for a monthly rent of Rs 3,000. “We have been selling variety rice for the last 10 years and we used to earn Rs 700 daily. We could earn Rs 20,000 – Rs 21,000 per month. Now, we must pay house rent and semester fee for our son. Due to the lockdown, we don’t have enough money to run the family. We bought rice, dal from PDS shop and running the family. The lockdown has affected our life severely and the state government should take steps to provide aid or food materials to us,” Gurusamy said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/this-variety-rice-sellers-now-depend-on-pds-shop-for-their-own-food/articleshow/75189659.cms||---
April 17, 2020||Coimbatore||Have time on your hands? Listen to science podcasts||Coimbatore: Making the most of the Covid-19 lockdown, people are binge-watching favourite shows on video streaming platforms and spending time on social media platforms, participating in hashtag marathons.Meanwhile, to make the online time productive, a city-based science education firm has been making podcasts on science topics and sharing them as audio clips on WhatsApp for free. The clips, from eclipses to virology and social distancing in history, have gone viral. J Aasif, an educator with Mango Education, said the clips uploaded as ‘Mango Science Radio on March 23’ have more than 2,000 listeners across the country. “We have roped in microbiologists, astronomers and ornithologists to record their talks on science topics and send them to us. Our science team verifies and validates the clips before they are shared with our listeners for free,” he told TOI. “Our listeners also send us their talks on science.” With people from across the country tuning in to listen to the podcasts, the firm is in works to translate them into Tamil, Marathi and other Indian languages. “People right from kids to adults have been giving us encouragement and good feedback,” Aasif said. While the firm is focused on science outreach programmes for students, the podcasts are aimed at everyone. It has been documenting the podcasts on the Anchor podcast app.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/have-time-on-your-hands-listen-to-science-podcasts/articleshow/75189679.cms||---
April 17, 2020||Business||Renew health, motor covers by May 15||Bengaluru: The government has allowed vehicle owners and mediclaim policyholders, whose contracts come up for renewal between March 25 and May 3, to renew their policies by May 15. The relaxation, enabled through a gazette notification, is in line with an earlier order that gave policyholders time up to April 21. Through the notification, the government had relaxed the law for motor third-party and health insurance policies that is statutory and where timely renewal is critical. The notification will reassure policyholders that even if they are not able to renew their policies on time, they would not lose the continuity benefit. Without the notification, if the policy was renewed with a break after the lockdown, the application would be treated as a fresh proposal and not a renewal. This would mean that insurers would be able to reject some claims on the grounds that an ailment was pre-existing before the contract was issued. The nationwide lockdown has halved motor insurance premium for April over the same period last year. This is partly because of auto sales and registration coming to a near standstill and renewals being hit by the measures taken to prevent the spread of the Covid-19 pandemic. Insurers said that although policies could be renewed online, a large part of their renewals take place through intermediaries who collect the cheque. Given the coronavirus lockdown, many of these cheque collections could not take place. Under Section 64VB of the Insurance Act, insurers cannot provide cover unless premium is received in advance. This is to eliminate the moral hazard by providing cover with retrospective effect. Speaking to TOI, Atul Sahai, chairman of the largest non-life insurer New India Assurance, said that while his company has done better than most, motor insurance sales are down 50%. The Insurance Regulatory and Development Authority of India (Irdai) has allowed companies to collect renewal premium that falls due during the lockdown period next month. This permission came even as the insurers are expected to continue to provide cover under the mandatory motor policy. According to Sahai, this poses a risk of adverse selection as those who do not have any claims during the lockdown period might shun buying insurance for the lockdown months and take a fresh policy with prospective effect. “This would not be beneficial if they had a no-claim bonus to lose. They would also have to bear the cost of inspection if there is a break in the policy. But in the case of some commercial vehicles, even a one-month premium may run into thousands,” he said. Motor insurance generates the bulk of premiums for non-life companies. Earlier in March, Irdai had put off a proposed hike in motor third-party insurance rates. “This last one year has been tumultuous — the slump in the auto-sector affected new business. Overall, things were subdued and low-key. While it would be more accurate to wait till the month-end before I make a definitive statement, renewals have been limited in commercial vehicles space,” said A Girijakumar, chairman of Oriental Insurance. He added that individual vehicle owners of cars and two-wheelers, particularly those owning comprehensive covers, have been more proactive in getting policies renewed. “I think there is awareness that the extension is only for motor-third party and not own damage or personal accident,” he said. While lenders do insist on continuous insurance for vehicles they have financed, they cannot enforce it at all times. “Just because a truck owner takes a truck loan from us doesn’t mean he’d buy his insurance also through us. He could get it through the OEMs, showrooms or dealers,” said T T Srinivasaraghavan, MD of Sundaram Finance. “We get insurance business from our loan/EMI accounts — mostly at the time of renewal (not first sale) — because we insist on updated insurance papers. So yes, for some of our loan customers, we also collect insurance. And these renewals will get delayed during the lockdown,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/renew-health-motor-covers-by-may-15/articleshow/75190369.cms||Rachel Chitra
April 17, 2020||Hyderabad||With low-grade PPEs, doctors in Hyderabad on Covid duty sitting ducks for virus||HYDERABAD: Doctors at Niloufer Hospital, Osmania General Hospital (OGH) and other state-run hospitals raised complaints of poor quality PPE (personal protection equipment) being given to them. While PPEs have been supplied in inadequate numbers, the ones which were supplied are of 35 gsm (grams per square meter) thickness, as against the recommended 60-80 gsm (gram per square metre) thickness and are inadequate for use by doctors handling patients. In fact, at hospitals like Niloufer Hospital and mental hospitals, the PPEs supplied are the ones used for HIV wards. These do not cover the entire body, which is an essential recommendation as per Ministry of Health and Family Welfare. While components of PPE include goggles, face-shield, mask, gloves, coverall/gowns (with or without aprons), head cover and shoe cover, in some hospitals the PPEs do not even cover the whole body. “While earlier we were not even given PPEs, we have been supplied with PPEs after protesting over the issue. But the ones we got are just namesake ones, which leave half the body exposed,” said a junior doctor from Niloufer hospital. “Although we are provided with PPEs, those are of poor quality. We are being provided with 35 gsm quality but we need at least 60 gsm quality. The 35 gsm quality is sufficient for level 4 staff like the ones who shift patients but is not enough for doctors who attend to emergency patients, doing intubation etc. We had even brought this to the notice of the Director of Medical Education and hospital authorities but all they could say was they will supply better quality when it is available,” said Dr Phanindra, resident doctor at OGH. This scenario is the same in most hospitals, except Gandhi Hospital where the quality supplied is better. “Most doctors are facing the same issue of poor quality PPEs. This is dangerous for doctors and patients alike because even one doctor getting infected from an asymptomatic patient can spread the virus to many patients,” said Dr Mahesh Kumar, president, Healthcare Reforms Doctors Association. While contacted, Director of Medical Education and authorities at Telangana State Medical Infrastructure Development Corporation (TSMIDC), which supplies the PPEs to the hospitals, did not respond.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/with-low-grade-ppes-doctors-on-covid-duty-sitting-ducks-for-virus/articleshow/75189717.cms||Amrita Didyala
April 17, 2020||Coimbatore||Days after delivery, 20-yr-old woman tests +ve in district||Coimbatore: A 20-year-old woman from Vettaikaranpudur, who delivered a baby on Monday, has tested positive for Covid-19, taking the total number of cases in the district to 127. The woman, who was in her final stages of pregnancy, went to Pollachi GH on Monday with flu like symptoms. The doctors performed a C-section the next day and took her swabs for testing. Results showed her positive for the infection on Thursday. Vettaikaranpudur is a containment zone with two people testing positive in the vicinity. Officials believe her husband who is a van driver was in touch with those positive patients’ families. “This is no sign of community transmission. She lives close to the earlier positive patients and her husband was reportedly mingling with the positive patients’ families for work,” collector K Rajamani said. “To confirm this suspicion, we have collected her husband and her mother’s samples also,” he said. The woman and her newborn girl baby have been brought to ESI Hospital for treatment. The baby’s samples have also been collected to test for the virus. Meanwhile, at least 15 of the 125 patients under treatment have tested negative twice for the virus, said the collector.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/days-after-delivery-20-yr-old-woman-tests-ve-in-district/articleshow/75189698.cms||---
April 17, 2020||Pune||Maharashtra: Association provides free two-wheeler repairs||PUNE: People associated with emergency services required in the fight against coronavirus need not worry about being stranded if their two-wheelers develop a technical snag. A call to the Scooter, Motorcycle Repairs Research Association will help locate mechanics, who can repair the vehicle within the area, that too free of cost. Since the lockdown was announced, the association has helped about 80 people, including doctors, policemen and civic employees, till date. “We do not charge a single penny for the repairs. We only charge when there is a requirement to change some spare part,” said Dhananjay Kabra, secretary of the Scooter, Motorcycle Repairs Research Association. “We have shared our contact numbers. If we get any call, we seek the location and share the details with the nearest member, who gets the repair done on the spot” Kabra said. Recently, Kabra received a call from the staff members of a private hospital in Kothrud. The tyres of their two-wheelers were punctured. “We sent our team there. We searched a puncture repair shop in the area and with their help repaired the punctures,” Kabra said. To ensure free movement during the lockdown, the association has printed handbills that lists the services they provide. “We have not faced any problem from the police till date,” Kabra said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/assoc-provides-free-two-wheeler-repairs/articleshow/75190363.cms||Mihir Tanksale
April 17, 2020||Pune||The heat is on: Citizens suffer with no way to repair appliances||Pune: One of the most pervasive problems being faced by citizens during the ongoing lockdown is a complete lack of options to repair electronic appliances.With the onset of summer, temperatures are soaring and for many people, there simply is no way to alleviate the heat as their air coolers and air conditioners — unused since the previous summer — are in bad repair.Sunil Deshpande, a resident of NIBM Road, area, said, “Our two ACs needed servicing. I thought I’ll get it done before summer hits, but by then the lockdown was imposed,” Sunil said.Pallav Kumar, another resident of the area, said, “We cannot afford an AC, but wanted to buy two table fans. But now shops are all closed,” he said. Pappu Patil, a plumber, tried twice in the past week to cater to his clients on NIBM Road. Patil said he decided against it as he was afraid of police action. Haider Shaikh, a local electrician and plumber in the Baner-Pashan-Aundh area, too faces a similar situation. He has been flooded with frantic calls from people about plumbing issues. “Since I don’t have a pass, I cannot attend these complaints. With summer peaking, I also get a lot of calls about coolers and ACs," Shaikh said.Add to the mix dysfunctional mobile phones and vehicles, Puneites are a frustrated lot. For instance, Aruna Mazoomdar and her husband, an elderly couple, live alone. Two days ago, Mazoomdar locked her phone and forgot her password. “I didn’t know what to do and called up a nephew, but I was unable to follow his instructions. Then I sought help from a young couple who lived nearby — they reset my phone but I’ve forgotten my login credentials and no mobile shops are open,” she said.Important contacts, such as relatives, the local grocer and medical shop, are now inaccessible to her. “My husband uses a basic phone which is very old and unreliable. I hope at least repair shops will be allowed to open during this extended lockdown,” she said.Alok Mishra had to go out and buy medicine for his ailing mother, but his car refused to start. “My mother suffers from many age-related ailments and I have no vehicle to take her to a hospital in case of an emergency. I have borrowed a friends’ car, but they need it too as both of them work in essential services. Vehicle garages should be exempt from restrictions,” Mishra said.Rupesh, who works as an electrician and lives in the Kondhwa Khurd area, said small businesses were most battered by the crisis. “This is our best season as we get a lot of requests from people to service ceiling fans, coolers and air conditioners. Over the past week, I received around 15 calls from different households but could attend to just one or two,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/the-heat-is-on-citizens-suffer-with-no-way-to-repair-appliances/articleshow/75190359.cms||Ardhra Nair
April 17, 2020||Coimbatore||Allow admin staff to work from home: Tangedco employees||Coimbatore: Amid the extended nation-wide lockdown and also considering safety of the workers, the Tamil Nadu Electricity Board should employ only minimal and necessary number of workers and allow workers who do administrative, auditing and accounts duties to work from home, representatives of the Tamil Nadu Electricity Board Employees Federation (TNEBEF) said.In a petition to the head and managing director of the Tamil Nadu Generation and Distribution Corporation Limited (Tangedco), the representatives said they had been working to ensure 24-hour power in the lockdown period. They have also been involved in rectifying defects in powerlines due to the recent showers. However, they said, to be safe from the Covid-19 disease, electricity board workers also have to maintain personal distancing.“As many women are involved in office work and also in engineering work, they should be exempted from working and apart from the minimal necessary number of workers, others should be given special leave,” they said in the petition. “Power tariff reading work should not be resumed until the lockdown is lifted.” TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/allow-admin-staff-to-work-from-home-tangedco-employees/articleshow/75189720.cms||---
April 17, 2020||Nagpur||HC admn appoints judges for hearing during lockdown||Nagpur: In view of extension in nationwide lockdown, the Bombay High Court administration led by Chief Justice has continued the arrangement of working with depleted strength and also appointed judges for hearing extremely urgent cases till May 5. The judges would preside over single benches at Nagpur and Aurangabad during the lockdown period. As directed by the Supreme Court of India, all the hearings in HC would be conducted through video conferencing facility only during lockdown. At Nagpur bench, Justice Nitin Sambre would continue to hear civil matters on April 20 and 23 while justice Vinay Joshi would hear criminal petitions on both days. On next hearings scheduled on April 27 and 30, justice Manish Pitale would preside over the civil bench and justice Murlidhar Giratkar would take up criminal cases. During subsequent hearing on May 5, justice Anil Kilor would look after civil cases while justice Shreeram Modak would hear criminal matters.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/hc-admn-appoints-judges-for-hearing-during-lockdown/articleshow/75189713.cms||Vaibhav Ganjapure
April 17, 2020||Pune||Pune: 7 booked for cremating woman without pass||PUNE: The Dehu Road police on Wednesday registered an offence against a 40-year-old woman and six others for cremating her 82-year-old mother-in-law without obtaining death certificate and the cremation pass from the cantonment authorities. The woman, who survived by working as a ragpicker, died on April 12 due to old age. Her daughter-in-law sought help from some neighbours for the cremation. The neighbours informed a local corporator, who sent his son for the woman’s help, said senior inspector Manish Kalyankar of the Dehu Road police. Kalyankar told TOI that till late in the night when the doctor did not come, the people decided to cremate the body. “The employees at the crematorium also did not check the pass and allowed the cremation,” he said. The officer said the police verified and confirmed from the local residents that the woman died because of old age. “But the doctor’s certificate is a must before cremation We have registered the offence for not completing the necessary formalities,” Kalyankar said. He said the authorities have conducted Covid-19 tests of the people present for the cremation. “All of them tested negative,” he said. The offence has been registered under sections 188 (Disobedience to order duly promulgated by public servant), 297 (tresspassing at crematorium) and 201(destroying evidence) of the Indian Penal Code.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/7-booked-for-cremating-woman-without-pass/articleshow/75190368.cms||---
April 17, 2020||Vijayawada||Discoms lose almost 37% revenue||VIJAYAWADA: A drop in revenue collections has come as a blow to cash-starved power utilities due to the nationwide lockdown. State power utilities are reaching out to domestic consumers to pay bills by calling them and through SMS. As consumption readings were not taken for March, AP Transco is requesting consumers to pay the same amount as that of February. Revenue collections have come down by 36.73% in the first two weeks of April compared to the first two weeks of March. With reduction in sales due to drop in demand from railways, industries and commercial establishments, power utilities are finding it difficult to make ends meet. Energy secretary Nagulapalli Srikant said electricity department employees have been working round-the-clock to ensure uninterrupted power supply to domestic and agriculture sectors and to hospitals and other healthcare facilities. “A drop in revenue collections would impact the power sector in the state. We are requesting consumers to pay bills online or collection points at village and ward secretariats,” Srikant said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/discoms-lose-almost-37-revenue/articleshow/75188746.cms||---
April 17, 2020||Hyderabad||Four held for Covid-19 drug advertisement in Hyderabad||HYDERABAD: A civic contractor and three others were arrested by Jubilee Hills police on Thursday for allegedly advertising online about the sale of a medicine to treat Covid-19 by claiming it was developed by Bathini brothers, who are famous for providing fish medicine to asthma patients. Police said that based on a complaint given by Bathini Harinath Goud, four persons -- Raj Kumar, P Subba Rao, N Uday Bhaskar and M Mahindra — were arrested while another accused Satish Reddy is absconding. The accused collected money from various persons and supplied some spurious products.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/4-held-for-covid-19-drug-advertisement/articleshow/75189729.cms||---
April 17, 2020||Indore||Indore coronavirus count shoots to 842, higher than UP and Telangana||INDORE/BHOPAL: Madhya Pradesh was hit by an avalanche of 361 Covid-19 cases on Thursday – with Indore alone accounting for 244 of them. MP's was the highest tally of the day in the entire country, with Maharashtra coming second at 286. MP’s corona count rocketed to 1,299 – putting it at third place in the country, behind only Maharashtra and Delhi. It has more than doubled in the last three days; the tally was 614 on April 13. Indore’s count is now a whopping 842 – higher than all of Uttar Pradesh, a state with nearly 80 times its population. Indore also reported the maximum Covid-19 deaths in day – eight were added to the city’s toll, taking it to 47, and the state’s to 63. Fifteen of Indore’s patients are in critical condition. Chief minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan sought to reassure people, saying: “The spurt in Indore and Bhopal is not a matter of great concern because earlier there was no testing, which led to spread of the disease. “ “People in Indore started dying of coronavirus infection in March, which means the infection was there but patients were not tested and treated because there were no facilities. Since March 23, there had been no test for Coronavirus in the state. Now that tests are taking place, patients are being detected and treated. There is a good sign that the maximum number of patients are responding to treatment and returning home after cure,” he said in a statement. The CM admitted that there has been a “delay in attempts to tackle the menace”, but now the state government is working on a war footing to contain the pandemic. “The number of covid-positive patients seems to be higher, but they are among those people already in quarantine,” said ACS-health Mohammed Suleman.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/indore/indore-corona-count-shoots-to-842-higher-than-up-telangana/articleshow/75189727.cms||---
April 17, 2020||Pune||Pune: Cyber frauds use doorstep liquor delivery, thali baits to siphon off money||PUNE: A lawyer from Satara Road on Sunday thought of searching on the net if any shops were selling liquor. He came across a geo-tagged link mentioning a phone number and details of a liquor store. When the lawyer dialled the number, the man at the other end promised to deliver liquor at his doorstep against an advance payment of Rs1,000 per bottle. The lawyer transferred the money using his UPI application. The man then asked the lawyer to share his UPI application password. When the lawyer did so, Rs22,000 was siphoned off his UPI account. Similarly, a private company executive residing at Kothrud wanted to order a thali from a reputable restaurant in Deccan. He searched for the hotel’s online portal and got a link with a phone number. When he dialled the number, the man on the other side promised to deliver two thalis if the order was placed in two minutes. The man claimed that the buy-one-get-one scheme was from the restaurant for people stuck in home because of the Covid-19 lockdown. The executive ordered a thali and shared credentials of his UPI application. Within minutes, the fraudsters siphoned off Rs10,000 from his UPI account. Senior inspector Jayram Paygude of the Cybercrime police station said, “In the lockdown period, many cyber fraudsters are luring people to buy liquor and thalis of prominent restaurants by posting fake links on different websites. The links are also shared on social networking sites. The fraudsters are also offering buy-one get-one offer if the order is placed within a few minutes.” “The fraudsters are asking their victims to pay in advance and seeking one-time passwords (OTPs) of UPI applications of the latter by indulging in sweet talks. After obtaining the passwords or OTPs, the suspects siphon off Rs2,000 to Rs40,000 using the victims’ UPI app facilities,” he said. In the last one week, the cyber police received eight complaints of frauds. “Sadly, people themselves are sharing the credentials of their UPI applications with the suspects,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/cyber-frauds-use-doorstep-liquor-delivery-thali-baits-to-siphon-off-money/articleshow/75190371.cms||---
April 17, 2020||Nagpur||Yavatma ZP CEO serves notice on edu officer for flouting norms||Yavatmal: Taking cognisance of complaints about irregularities in finalizing seniority list of physically challenged teachers, chief executive officer of Yavatmal Zilla Parishad Jalaj Sharma has served a show cause notice on education officer (primary, secondary and nirantar shikshan, adult education) Deepak Chavne to explain in three days why action should not be taken against him. The union of physically challenged teachers had alleged that Chavne had declared the seniority list without the knowledge of general administration department and its boss, deputy CEO CG Chavan. The union alleged that Chavne prepared the list of 279 physically challenged teachers working in ZP schools after ‘finalizing’ a deal with those ineligible to be included in the list to be considered for promotion to the post of headmaster. As per procedure, the list should have been routed through the GAD headed by deputy CEO to the CEO to get his approval. However, Chavne allegedly kept the DyCEO and the GAD in the dark and published the list sans anybody’s signature on it. Thereafter, he also moved the file for promotion based on the list. The matter came to light when CEO enquired with the DyCEO about the list. After the DyCEO denied of having seen the list, the CEO returned the file and served a show cause notice on the EO. Chavne had been embroiled in several controversies earlier for his role in teacher appointments and transfer. He has reportedly been summoned by the Economic Offences Wing of Yavatmal police in connection with yet another appointment scam involving lakhs of rupees. A few months ago, Chavne had brought a teacher from ZP High School in Pandharkawda to Boys High School in Yavatmal though there was no vacancy. Enquiries with the concerned headmasters revealed that there was a vacancy of maths teacher in Yavatmal school and an excess maths teacher in Pandharkawda. It has also come to fore that arts teachers on their own had appointed another teacher without prior permission of the department to teach maths. Such illegal appointment also raises a question mark over the functioning of the EO, who is also accused of flouting rules regarding inter-district transfer of teachers.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/ytl-zp-ceo-serves-notice-on-edu-officer-for-flouting-norms/articleshow/75189739.cms||---
April 17, 2020||Dehradun||‘No relaxation of curbs in districts with no cases’||Dehradun: In the backdrop of the Union home ministry issuing guidelines for allowing select public activities from April 20, the Uttarakhand council of ministers on Thursday took some major decisions regarding the relaxation of curbs to the districts reporting no or less coronavirus patients, allowing wedding functions, opening of industries and legal action against those sheltering Jamaat members.  Giving details, state urban development minister Madan Kaushik said contrary to the earlier plans of giving relaxation to nine districts – where no case of coronavirus or one case had been reported, the government has decided to stick with Centre’s guideline and said that “no further relaxation would be given”. Talking about allowing wedding functions to take place, Kaushik said, “The groom can take four people with him. But social distancing must be maintained. The parents or family members will have to take permission from the district authorities for the event.” Similarly, the state government has said no more than 20 people would be permitted for funeral. Meanwhile, the industries operating from industrial estates have been given permission to apply online or offline for opening of their units for units from April 20. The permission has to be taken from the district magistrate concerned. “The industrial unit owner will have to reveal the details about the number of employees, working shifts, sanitisation process, staying arrangement of the employees and the mode of their transportation. Only after going through the details and after being convinced by them, we will allow them to operate,” the minister said. Moreover, the government has decided that from Friday onwards, the ministers will sit in their offices in the state assembly building at Dehradun. The state secretariat would also remain open. “The entire staff above the rank of deputy secretary can come to work, whereas, below the rank of deputy secretary, a total of 33 % staff would be called to work,” Kaushik said. “The head of departments can work out the modalities in this context. Once again, social distancing will be maintained during the working hours,” the minister said. The state has also decided to approach the Centre for opening of shops selling construction materials. For wheat farmers, the government has already announced a bonus of Rs 20 per quintal in addition to the Minimum Support Price (MSP) of Rs 1,925 per quintal. “We have set up 245 centres across the state for the procuring process,” the minister added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/no-relaxation-of-curbs-in-districts-with-no-cases/articleshow/75188762.cms||Kautilya Singh
April 17, 2020||Pune||Hoteliers resent 15% hike in excise license renewal when business is at lowest ebb||Pune: The state excise department in a fresh circular offered not to levy the 15% increment in liquor licence renewal fee for the financial year 2020-21 if the payment was made on or before April 30, drawing flak from the industry.Hoteliers claimed that the move was aimed at encouraging them to pay the fee in advance when the business was shut. They stressed if they failed to pay for the licence renewal this month, they would have to pay a premium of 15% when the business sentiment was at its lowest.A source in the industry said, “The notification stated that licencees who had already paid the licence fees as per the new structure for the FY (financial year) 2020-21 would get their excess fees adjusted in the next financial year as the government was charging according to the last year’s fee. It said that licencees paying the licence fee (renewal) before or till April 30 would be charged according to the licence fees in the last fiscal.”The Maharashtra government had in March announced a 15% hike in excise licence renewal fee for the FY 2020-21. All trade bodies in the food service sector opposed it and requested for a rollback considering the dismal situation of business in the wake of lockdown because of the Covid-19. In its latest circular on April 13, the state excise department offered not to charge the increment of 15% if the payment was made on or before April 30.The Hotel and Restaurant Association of Western India (HRAWI), National Restaurant Association of India (NRAI) and the Indian Hotel and Restaurant Association (AHAR) are of the view that the move of the government was equivalent to penalising a business for non-timely payment of a fee during the worst crisis that the mankind had ever faced.Gurbaxish Singh Kohli, president, HRAWI, said, “The industry is completely shut, and we have no income; it could be a long time in future before business gets back to normal. It is not the time for half measures or 15% cuts, but suspension of all statutory fees. We have thrown open our restaurant and hotel kitchens to prepare meals for the needy. Besides, our rooms have been thrown open to doctors and other medical workers.”Anurag Katriar, president, NRAI, said, “The excise department’s insistence to pay the liquor licence fee in advance for the full year now or pay 15% more is very unfortunate. With our meagre resources, we are prioritising human needs of our employees; paying the licence fee cannot become our bigger priority. I appeal to the government to rescind this decision and allow us to pay pro-rated fee in easy instalments.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/hoteliers-resent-15-hike-in-excise-license-renewal-when-business-is-at-lowest-ebb/articleshow/75190373.cms||Neha Madaan
April 17, 2020||Hyderabad||648 cases in Telangana related to TJ attendees, contacts: Minister||HYDERABAD: Health minister Eatala Rajender on Thursday said of the total coronavirus positive cases in Telangana, 648 cases are related to the Tablighi Jamaat meeting attendees or their contacts. Making a fresh appeal, the minister urged those who have been in contact with Markaz Nizamuddin travellers to come forward and get themselves tested. Addressing a press conference here, he said the novel coronavirus spread to 81 people from six members in six families. “In Talab Katta in the Old City, as many as 20 persons contracted the virus from just one person,” he said. He said many people despite knowing that their contacts had gone to Nizamuddin and attended the TJ meeting are not coming forward. “Do not worry unnecessarily about quarantine. The coronavirus spread is rapid in Hyderabad because many people live in the same joint family,” he said. The minister also urged people who are not residing in containment zones to come forward voluntarily and get the tests done. “Two persons who had travelled to Gujarat had tested positive. We are tracing their contacts. We are trying to ascertain if they got infected because of Gujarat travel or TJ meeting or any foreign travel,” he said. The minister said the containment zones in Hyderabad had gone up because of the spurt in the cases and those who had attended the TJ meeting would continue to be in quarantine till April 28. He said the government had taken steps to get the most advanced equipment lab for testing the virus symptoms. “We will be in a position to conduct 5,000 tests a day in three weeks’ time. In addition to the existing testing labs, two more labs have been given permission to carry out testing,” he said. These labs will start conducting tests from April 18. The minister said the doctors working in the quarantine wards and those who are taking the samples of Covid-19 suspected cases were being given PPE. A total of 10 lakh PPE kits and 10 lakh N95 masks are also being made available. All other forces working in Gandhi hospital also will be given similar protection equipment . There is capacity of producing 3 lakh doctor masks locally. The bed strength of Gachibowli hospital would be enhanced to 1,500 from 1,300, he said, adding that the hospital would be fully functional from April 20. He said a separate ward is being created in the nodal Covid hospital, Gandhi Hospital, for children to stay where their mothers are undergoing treatment after they had tested positive.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/648-cases-in-t-related-to-tj-attendees-contacts-min/articleshow/75189824.cms||Sribala Vadlapatla
April 17, 2020||Coimbatore||There is no means to earn even Rs 10||Pre-lockdown, P Ramu, a pani puri vendor at VOC Park in the city, used to earn around Rs1,500 per day. This would be enough for managing his family of three — him, his wife and his college-going daughter.His is one of the pushcarts which used to line the VOC Park gate road. “I used to sell kaalan, pani puri, bhel puri and other chat items. On weekends and on government holidays, I would earn around Rs1,000 more, which would help me to set some money aside as savings,” he says. Vendors like him rely on daily earnings to manage family expenses, rent, kids’ education expenses and other miscellaneous expenses, he says. But, since the Janata curfew on March 22, he, like 150 other vendors who sell chat items, snacks, juice, toys, and other trinkets at the park, have not been able to set shops there. Raju says now he has no other way than to borrow money to run his family. “The whole city is in a standstill. There is no way even to do some other business. There is no means to earn even 10 rupees. I have been managing by borrowing money from friends and acquaintances to keep things moving,” he says. Ramu says the Rs1,000 assistance given by the state would be in no way enough to support his family for the days he has lost business due to the lockdown. “If the state gives us Rs5,000 a month, it would be helpful to manage the basic needs of our family,” he says.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/there-is-no-means-to-earn-even-rs-10/articleshow/75189751.cms||---
April 17, 2020||Business||Collection of e-toll shrinks 22% in March||BENGALURU: The National Electronic Toll Collection, or FASTag, has recorded a 22% month-on-month drop in collections to Rs 1,481 crore in March 2019, according to NPCI data. Transaction volumes fell 23% to 8.45 crore. After the March 22 lockdown announcement, the Centre had announced toll would not be collected. “Zero-toll and reduced activity compounded to the reduced collection. Private vehicles, passenger buses, etc were stopped from plying. Only essential service trucks were plying. Also, March number is no indicator — as there were only seven days of lockdown. The real picture will emerge in April with 30 days of lockdown,” said Shekhar Bhandari, president, global transaction banking, Kotak Mahindra Bank. Toll collection was waived between March 23- April 15. While all categories of transactions like IMPS, UPI, cheque clearance saw a decline in transactions for March 2021 -- the only categories that did not were utilities, mobile recharges and tax payments via Bharat Bill Payment System (BBPS) and RuPay card usage for e-commerce transactions. Indians paid bills worth Rs 1,954 crore via BBPS and swiped using RuPay for e-commerce goods worth Rs 5,564 crore in March on par with February figures. “The month of March saw two developments. One people were trying to stock up by purchasing essentials from e-commerce providers like Flipkart, Amazon, Grofers, BigBasket. So payments would have seen a surge initially. This was followed by a lull for the 7 days of lockdown in March, which made it difficult even for them to operate; when they weren’t accepting orders,” said Bhandari. Even though the March saw only the last week facing a lockdown, still UPI transactions fell 6% to 125 crore; and value of transactions fell 7% to Rs 2.06 lakh crore. IMPS transactions also 14% to 216.82 crore in volume and 6% to Rs 2.14 lakh crore in volume. Cheques reduced in number to 5.53 from 8 crore and fell in cheque clearance value 30% to Rs 7.98 crore. Post-lockdown, the only avenues for spend are groceries, fuel and medical shops, said Mahesh Patel, chief technology officer, AGS Transact Technologies. “In April, we saw a sharper fall of 70% in card transactions. E-commerce transaction forms a very small percentage of card spends. We saw a heightened level of activity on micro-ATMs, used by business correspondents, from Jan Dhan accounts. Other than that, there are recurring payments like utilities, mobile bills and subscriptions like Netflix, Amazon prime that people are paying for,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/collection-of-e-toll-shrinks-22-in-march/articleshow/75190377.cms||Rachel Chitra
April 17, 2020||Business||Surge in prices of ingredients of drugs used against Covid-19||MUMBAI: Prices of raw materials, also called active pharmaceutical ingredients (API), and basic chemicals used to manufacture Covid drugs have skyrocketed between three and 10 times since March 20, due to opportunistic pricing, black marketing, short supply and weakening of the rupee. The maximum increase — around 10-fold — is in case of API of hydroxychloroquine, which shot into limelight after US President Trump touted it as a potential Covid-19 treatment, while prices of others, including azithromycin, ivermectin and vitamin D3 have either doubled or trebled, over the last three weeks. API prices of hydroxychloroquine have touched around Rs 70,000 per kg, from around Rs 6,500 per kg (February), and Rs 7,500 per kg (March), at least four market intermediaries told TOI. In addition, limited quantity of the basic drug is available in the market, exerting further price pressure. Two main producers of hydroxychloroquine — mainly used for arthritis and lupus -- include Ipca Labs and Zydus Cadila, which manufacture both APIs and finished formulation (drug). “We have not sold any API recently. We need to service large government orders — both central government and state. There is no change in the domestic formulation prices in India. But the cost of producing API has more than doubled, with basic chemicals and raw materials from China going up by five to six times,” said Ipca labs joint managing director AK Jain. It may be pointed out that the drug is under price control in India. There is a huge surge in the drug’s demand post-Trump’s tweet, as several countries are using it as a potential treatment for certain categories of Covid-19 patients. Regarding API for azithromycin — the other drug used in combination with hydroxychloroquine for treating coronavirus, since February, prices have doubled to 16,000 a kg. “Prices of APIs have gone up by 80-100% due to a shortage in the market as well as logistics issues (from China). Though demand has gone up in the country, there is also a huge requirement from the US and Europe, where we are also supplying. There is no shortage in the country,” said RK Baheti, chief financial officer of Vadodara-based Alembic, which has around 30% share in the market. The company manufactures API in the country for its captive use, as well as imports from China. Around 80% of API of azithromycin is imported from China per month, but now it has reduced as Beijing is exporting a bulk of it to Europe and the US, say market experts. “There is a lot of stock lying with traders and manufacturers, and not enough in the market. This has led to manipulation of prices by intermediaries”, the owner of a medium-scale manufacturing plant in Maharashtra told TOI. Further, API prices have also been impacted by the appreciation in dollar by around 10%, and imports (of raw materials and chemicals) reducing from China. Prices of another sought-after drug for Covid-19, paracetamol, are stable, while those of vitamin-D3 is up by nearly three times. “The cost of importing raw materials and chemicals from China has gone up substantially with both sea and air shipments becoming expensive. There is also congestion at ports, while logistics is also a challenge,” Mahesh Doshi, president of Indian Drug Manufacturers’ Association, said. There has also been an increase in API prices of Ivermectin, due to imported raw material prices going up, an executive with a mid-level manufacturer stated.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/surge-in-prices-of-ingredients-of-drugs-used-against-covid-19/articleshow/75190969.cms||Rupali Mukherjee
April 17, 2020||Hubballi||Dharwad being declared hotspot puzzles residents||Dharwad: Why was Dharwad district declared a Covid-19 hotspot, when only six Covid-19 positive cases have been reported in the district, and one among them has already been cured and discharged? This is a question being asked by residents in the district. District minister Jagadish Shettar and senior officials claim that the situation in the district is under control, and hence the Centre’s declaration has come as a surprise to the residents here, who were expecting some relaxation in the lockdown after April 14. The Union health ministry has declared 170 districts as Covid-19 hotspots, and 207 districts are not hotspots. “Hotspots are those districts which are reporting more number of cases, or where the rate of growth of Covid-19 cases is high. When this is the criteria, Dharwad district figuring in the list of hotspots is surprising,” said Mahabaleshwar Sindagi, a senior citizen. Clearing the confusion, deputy commissioner Deepa Cholan, said on Thursday, that the main reason for declaring Dharwad district as a Covid-19 hotspot, is the cluster spread of the virus here. Elaborating, she said the Covid-19 infection of the 37-year-old man identified as P-236 from Mullan Oni in Hubballi, is different from the first case, P-21, reported from Hosayallapur in Dharwad. The patient identified as P-21 had travelled from Perth in Australia to Dharwad via Dubai, Muscat and Goa. “At Hosayellapur, the infection had not spread to the primary contacts, which were his family members. All the family members of P-21 tested negative for Covid-19. However, at Mulla Oni, the infection spread to four family members of the patient, and this is defined as cluster spread. The state government, while defining hotspots, has said that the place where any one positive case has 50 primary contacts, should be declared as a hotspot, and accordingly Dharwad district, which has five active cases, all related to the Mulla Oni patient, and are being treated at KIMS in Hubballi, has been declared as hotspot,” she added. The declaration has come in handy for the district administration and police to effectively implement the lockdown and prempt any disturbance or violation of the lockdown during the month of Ramzan. Muslims fast during Ramzan and perform namaz five times a day. The declaration of the district as a hotspot will help the police to keep the members of the community indoors, and prevent them from crowding at one place, said a political analyst. 5 Covid-19 patients in Dharwad In Dharwad district, till Thursday evening, there were five Covid-19 patients, and the results of the tests of 81 people are awaited. The total number of people tested for Covid-19 is 1,189. Of them, 476 are home quarantined for 14 days, and seven have been quarantined in hospital. While 110 have completed 14 days quarantine, 592 have completed 28 days quarantine. The samples of 682 people have been sent for cumulative testing, and 596 have tested negative.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hubballi/dharwad-being-declared-hotspot-puzzles-residents/articleshow/75187502.cms||---
April 17, 2020||Dehradun||Char Dham priests seek govt help||Dehradun: The ongoing lockdown has caused financial worries for the Char Dham teerth purohit (priest) community, as the chances of pilgrims turning out in large numbers during the Char Dam Yatra appear to be less this year owing to the Covid-19 pandemic. According to government records, the four shrines have approximately 5,000 priests directly dependent on the pilgrims for their livelihood. On an average, priests make between Rs 2 lakh and 5 lakh during the yarta season. Scores of priests with whom TOI spoke to, said they are seeking financial support from the state government in order to keep going in the tough times. “Our community is going to face a very tough time, as we have no other source of income. The government is helping farmers and businessmen by deferring their EMIs, so the priest community of the Char Dhams should also be financially supported,” Ashok Semwal, a priest at the Gangotri shrine, said. “The disease is such that we have to keep social distancing in mind, so we will not be staying in the shrine towns in full strength as we used to in normal season,” said Semwal, who lives in Uttarkashi and is about to visit Gangotri. Sharing similar concerns, a priest in Badrinath, Bhuvan Chand Uniyal compared the present crisis to that of the 2013 flash floods. “In my opinion, the condition of our community will be worse than what it was in 2013, because during that time, people had still donated money to us, but now the lockdown has impacted everyone financially,” Uniyal said. Badrinath has over 3500 priests living in the region. For the priest community, May and June are the two most important months because it is during these times the pilgrims visit the most. “Considering the gravity of the situation , the state government must find a way to support us,” Uniyal said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/char-dham-priests-seek-govt-help/articleshow/75188777.cms||Yogesh Kumar
April 17, 2020||Coimbatore||A plumber struggles to cover family’s expenses||A Nagaraj, 48, a plumber from Venkittapuram near Saibaba Colony, is living in penury ever since the lockdown began. He used to earn Rs 700 per day while his wife Lakshmi made Rs 6,000 a month from her job at a textile shop. The husband-wife duo have to pay close to Rs 10,000 a month for house rent and loan EMIs. They were able to pay off the fixed expenses out of their income and used to easily take care of their 21-year-old daughter’s college fee and the family’s day-to-day expenses. But the lockdown took away their jobs.  “We are struggling to lead a normal life after the lockdown... we have borrowed Rs 12,000 from friends and relatives to run the family. We can understand the situation but have to pay back the loan amount after the lockdown. Government is repeatedly saying to stay at home to prevent the spread of Covid-19. Staying at home comes at a huge cost for us,” said Nagaraj.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/a-plumber-struggles-to-cover-familys-expenses/articleshow/75189769.cms||---
April 17, 2020||Hyderabad||Gulf worker loses daughter, sees last rites on video call||HYDERABAD: Migrant labourers from Telangana, who are stranded in Gulf countries due to the lockdown, are among the worst affected due to the Covid-19 pandemic. Many of them have lost their jobs and being away from their families has left them in a state of psychological depression. Take the case of P Bhaskar of Thunguru village of Jagityal district. Bhaskar who is currently stranded in Saudi Arabia, was not even allowed to have a last glimpse of the body of his 10-year-old daughter Sahithya. He had to watch the funeral via video call a few days ago. “No father should experience what I am going through now. I could not even be there to weep beside my daughter’s body. I had to watch my own daughter’s last rites through a video call,” the inconsolable father told TOI. Sahithya, who was diagnosed with diabetes six months ago, saw her dad for the last time in October last year when he visited home and got her admitted in a new school. Little did her father know that it would be the last time he was going to see his daughter. “I got her enrolled in a new school the last time I visited my family. Also, I heard my daughter’s voice on the phone just 10 minutes before I received the news of her death. I couldn’t talk to her for long that day because she sounded very weak and I was not able to stop myself from crying. Soon after, within a few minutes, I received a call from my mother who informed me that my daughter breathed her last just minutes after I spoke to her,” said Bhaskar. Bhaskar, who works as a carpenter, is still waiting in Saudi Arabia for the lockdown period to be over so that he can come back home to his grieving wife, mother and younger son. “In Gulf countries, for example in Qatar’s industrial area, there are lakhs of migrant labourers from Andhra Pradesh and Telangana who currently have no work or pay. They are being provided with food but the uncertainty of their future and loneliness is in the current situation is leading to stress and depression in many people,” said Bheem Reddy Mandha, president of the Emigrants Welfare Forum.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/gulf-worker-loses-daughter-sees-last-rites-on-video-call/articleshow/75189779.cms||Moulika.KV
April 17, 2020||Vadodara||Two-yr-old’s mother too tests +ve||Vadodara: Chhota Udepur district registered its sixth case of coronavirus on Thursday after the mother of a two-year-old girl, who had tested positive on April 8, too tested Covid-19 positive. The 32-year-old woman’s samples were collected on Wednesday as she has been with her daughter at GMERS Medical College and Hospital in Gotri as the child needs her care. On Thursday her reports confirmed her samples to be coronavirus positive. Following this, the mother too has been admitted at isolation ward of the hospital in Gotri. The two-year-old girl was infected by her 60-year-old grandfather who had attended the congregation of Tablighi Jamaat in New Delhi. The 60-year-old man had tested positive on April 5. In Chhota Udepur, all six cases have been reported from Bodeli town. Three patients are undergoing treatment in Gotri and three others have been admitted at special isolation ward in Chhota Udepur town. Those undergoing treatment at Chhota Udepur are also from the same family.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/two-yr-olds-mother-too-tests-ve/articleshow/75188411.cms||---
April 17, 2020||Kolkata||Salt Lake gets sanitization boost||Kolkata: With two more suspected Covid-19 cases reported from Salt Lake’s FD Block in the last few days, the Bidhannagar Municipal Corporation has intensified its sanitizing and disinfectant spraying drive across all 41 wards in Salt Lake and Rajarhat. The civic officials are also keeping tabs on the market places to ensure that the lockdown rules are followed there, with an emphasis on the sensitive areas and blocks, from where the suspected cases are being reported. Sources said that the family members of the Covid-19 suspects had been sent to the quarantine centre in Rajarhat. The civic body is conducting sanitisation drive in the localities, where the Covid-19 suspects reside. However, one of the suspects had returned home last week while the conditions of others, who had been hospitalized, were stated to be stable. On Wednesday, Bidhannagar mayor Krishna Chakraborty handed over 500 PPE kits to the health and conservancy department officials and 10 PPE kits each to four local private hospitals located for doctors, nurses and other medical staff. “All the councillors have been instructed to stay alert in their respective wards,” Chakraborty said. Cops have been keeping a close watch on the market places in Salt Lake, especially the sensitive areas identified by drone surveillance. Mobile police patrolling has been pressed into service in these areas. All market complexes are closing by 6pm and cops are monitoring whether anyone flouts the lockdown. Bidhannagar Municipal Corporation MMiC (health) Pranay Roy said that they were following the health department’s instructions. “The sanitising drive is going on in all the areas. We are keeping close watch on the affected areas,” he added. One disinfectant spraying machine has been allotted for each ward.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/salt-lake-gets-sanitization-boost/articleshow/75181629.cms||---
April 17, 2020||Mumbai||Mumbai chemists short on medicines, baby food as supplies thin out||MUMBAI: Chemist shops in several parts of the city are running out of medicines and even infant food as the lockdown has disrupted the supply chain from manufacturers to distributors and ultimately retailers. The Andheri Chemist Welfare Association recently wrote to the state government and the Food and Drug Administration highlighting the possibility of a shortage. “Several stockists have stopped supplying stocks due to the shortage of manpower while others have completely stopped operating. Chemists too are running at half their strength so it’s difficult to go and collect the medicines from distributors on a daily basis,” said Hakim Kapasi, president of the association. He added many of his clients have run out of their regular blood pressure and diabetes medicines and have been forced to switch brands. “Many don’t have stocks of life-saving drugs too,” he said. Another chemist from Dadar said medicines from multinational brands are also not reaching them as distributors have not managed to pick them up. One of the distributors told TOI several godowns are in Bhiwandi and that involves a long ride and crossing multiple checkpoints. “Further, a crowd of 200-300 people gathers there to collect medicines. That sends social distancing for a toss,” he said, adding the supply of baby food has not stopped but is erratic. Several chemists told TOI supplies are available but take longer. “Some distributors are delivering but in most cases, we need to go to them. These distributors have an increased load as orders are higher and staffers are few, ” said Naresh Jain of Rakesh Medical in Matunga. Similarly, for a chemist in Ghatkopar, supplies of common medicines for blood pressure and diabetes are running out often. “One of our distributors was in Dharavi, and as it is a hotspot, we had to look for another one,” said the chemist. One in Andheri East said everything except baby food is available. A senior Food and Drug Administration official said the supply chain has been restored but they will look into the matter.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/chemists-short-on-medicines-baby-food-as-supplies-thin-out/articleshow/75187658.cms||Vinamrata Borwankar
April 17, 2020||Visakhapatnam||Rapid testing starts in Srikakulam, Vizianagaram to maintain green status||VISAKHAPATNAM: Following the Union health ministry declaring 11 of the state’s 13 districts as Covid hotspots or red zones, district administrations of both Vizianagaram and Srikakulam, which have been marked as green zone, have begun exercises to ensure their status remains unchanged. Srikakulam collector J Nivas said the district has received 1,600 rapid-testing kits and around 80 people were tested on Thursday. SP RN Ammi Reddy said 17 checkposts have been set up at every entry and exist point in the district from neighbouring areas, including Odisha. These checkposts are aimed at preventing entry of people from adjacent areas, where Covid-19 positive cases have been reported, he added. “We have installed disinfection tunnels at few of the checkposts such as Icchapuram and Pydi Bheemavaram to sanitise both humans and vehicles,” Ammi Reddy told TOI. Checkposts have been set up are Pydi Bheemavaram, Ullivalasa, Kamma Sigadam, Venkatapuram, Kancharam, Arasada, G Sigadam, Laveru, Rajam, Vangara and Veeragattam. Vizianagaram collector M Hari Jawaharlal said they have set up checkposts on the borders, which Vizianagaram shares with Odisha and other Covid-affected districts. Besides, they have received 1,400 new rapid Covid testing kits from the government. The tests would be conducted from Friday. First, they would test patients with the primary symptoms and the next step would be decided depending on results. As per the new categorisation, a hotspot district will be declared as an orange zone district, if it does not record any new case in the last 14 days. If the trend continues for the next 14 days, the district will be classified as a green zone.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/visakhapatnam/rapid-testing-starts-in-skulam-vzm-to-maintain-green-status/articleshow/75188771.cms||V Kamalakara Rao
April 17, 2020||Pune||Maharashtra needs six months to one year plan for coping with pandemic, says expert||PUNE: A one-time lockdown that ends on May 3 to get a grip over the Covid-19 pandemic may not work for Maharashtra, pandemic expert Subhash Salunkhe told TOI onThursday Salunkhe, consultant to the state government, and his team, after meeting experts from Kerala, said Maharashtra will have to draw out a detailed plan for six months to a year to beat the pandemic. “Not just Covid-19, but the state would have to gear up to tackle dengue, malaria and other vector borne diseases in the monsoon,” he said. Containment measures will be needed to tamp down on the cases that are rising in the state. “The strategy is not to reinvent the wheel but to strictly follow the proven strategy,” he said. Health experts across the world have said that social distancing measures would be needed for many more years and a resurgence of the virus may happen till 2025. Scientific papers have also said that the secondary peaks of Covid-19 may be more vicious. Kerala and Bhilwara in Rajasthan have followed them well and their models have been successful. Maharashtra started addressing the pandemic one month later than Kerala which benefited from its quick action, Salunkhe said. “We still have a window of opportunity if we strictly follow the containment measures, tracking of patients and high risk cases. Those who have any symptoms should report early,” he added. Before the pandemic hit, Kerala had already issued directives to the elderly and rolled out social distancing measures The Maharashtra government will have make better plans for by people to follow the lockdown rules. “ The cases will not drop immediately; the community and the administration will work towards it. Kerala, that was leading in the number of Covid-19 cases was now 20th in the mortality rate registering 388 cases with three deaths and a mortality rate of 0.77%,” Salunkhe said. State health minister Rajesh Tope in a live interaction with the media on Thursday said the only solace in this pandemic was that doubling of cases that earlier happened every two days was now in five days because of more testing. “After every five days, the number of cases double in the state. However, this has to reduce drastically,” he said. The state has formed a team of doctors who can be called by any of the medical faculty at the Covid-19 hospitals to address issues of serious patients. With comorbidity issues being the maximum in death cases, the death audit of each and every case has been ordered To prevent last-minute intervention, citizens have been urged to approach flu clinics if they show any symptoms rather than wait for last-minute tests. Salunkhe said citizens must not neglect the state’s instructions.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/state-needs-six-months-to-one-year-plan-for-coping-with-pandemic-says-expert/articleshow/75190381.cms||Nisha Nambiar
April 17, 2020||Hyderabad||Rs 2.4 crore claims pending, labourers in Mahabubabad cry foul||HYDERABAD: Claims worth Rs 2.4 crore belonging to construction site labourers in Mahabubabad are pending with the authorities for over one-and-a-half years, leaving the families in disarray more so with strict lockdown in place. Senior labour department officials, however, said the claims of labourers are pending for only a month and the dues would be released within a week once verification is done. In all, there are 368 claims for maternity, disability benefits as well as for natural and accidental deaths, sources said. “The claims amount to around Rs 2.4 crore,” an official told TOI on condition of anonymity. In Mahabubabad, officials and activists alleged that the claims have been pending with district commissioner, labour (Warangal), Samuel John. “Verification was done and sent to the labour board in Hyderabad. For some reason, they chose to resend the files back to Warangal. The DCL has been sitting on the files. We are getting calls repeatedly from the labourers who are desperate for money during the lockdown,” said a senior labour official, who did not wish to be named. Among the 368 claims, 180 relate to maternity and child birth benefits, 72 marriages, 98 natural deaths, accidental deaths seven and hospitalisation 11 including for permanent disability. Benefits range between Rs 30,000 for delivering a child and Rs 6 lakh in case of a fatal accident. Mohammed Khasim of Kesamudram mandal said he had filed a claim last year (dated May 10, 2019) for maternity benefit of his daughter Reshma. “I have not got the money till now,” he complained. When contacted, Samuel John refuted allegations of deviation of rules and holding back the payments for more than a year. “Actually, the claims are pending only for a month. We are following the rules strictly. The applications were sent to me for re-verification. I will go through them and release the dues within a week,” he said. Meanwhile, Balula Hakkula Sangham (BHS), a child rights’ group, said any delay in processing of the claims would go against the basic rights provided to the labourers. “The amount has already been paid by builders. Action must be taken against the officials concerned for delaying the payment of claims,” said Achyuta Rao, founder-president of BHS.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/rs-2-4cr-claims-pending-labourers-cry-foul/articleshow/75189596.cms||---
April 17, 2020||Chennai||Panel of 18 in Tamil Nadu to work on April 20 relaxation, build exit strategy||CHENNAI: The state government on Thursday set up an expert committee to formulate the guidelines for phased exit from the regulations imposed under the Disaster Management Act. The 18-member committee headed by finance secretary S Krishnan, including officials and experts, will make suggestions and advise on the way forward after April 20 and the strategy post lockdown. The Centre on Wednesday issued guidelines extending the restrictions to May 3 to contain the Covid-19 spread. It suggested certain relaxations but the states have been told not to dilute the guidelines and to strictly enforce them. This included, IT and IT enabled services, with 50% strength. “The expert committee will give an interim report after a study of all activities on April 19, and a final report later on exit strategy, depending on the disease’s magnitude,” chief secretary K Shanmugam said. Incidentally, the Centre’s guidelines are specific in that it will not apply in the containment zones of the state. Tamil Nadu has 558 containment zones. Industries operating in rural areas, outside the limits of municipal corporations and municipalities will be allowed. So too manufacturing and other industrial establishments with access control in special economic zones, industrial estates, industrial townships, and export-oriented units. The senior officials on Thursday held a preliminary talk on allowing industries, manufacturing units, food processing industries, and production units. It veered around issuing passes for the movement of individuals and vehicles, and staggering relaxation for industrial operations with minimum workforce to begin with. The rural development department has planned to increase MGNREGA workforce by 30% in the coming weeks. They will be offered masks. The representatives of MSME sector, the worst affected during the lockdown, have been meeting authorities. Former vice-chancellor S P Thiagarajan, also member of the expert committee, felt that the state should take into consideration basic facts on the grounds in terms of the prevailing rate of infection of the virus and transmission pattern. “I am aware that the government is making data analytics based on various testing. This data analytics results will give us an indication on the transmission pattern. Though there is a slight indication that it is plateauing, we need more information, which will be available in the data analytics. This will give us a clarity of how exactly the level-wise exit plan can be worked out,” the microbiologist said. The transport department is working on the exit strategy for after May 3, including fleet size of 30% to begin with and increasing it to 40% in a fortnight. The state transport corporations which are in the red hope for financial aid from the Centre to operate the services, given requirements like sanitisers and disinfectants for the public and crew members. The department may distribute masks to the public at a cost, free masks and gloves to the crew and commuters will be asked to maintain social distancing. “The strategies are being worked out and we may get a clear picture in the coming days,” said an official.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/panel-of-18-to-work-on-apr-20-relaxation-build-exit-strategy/articleshow/75189774.cms||Julie Mariappan
April 17, 2020||Thiruvananthapuram||District intensifies vigil on persons with SARI and ILI||Thiruvananthapuram: A good number of symptomatic persons are being hospitalized in the district with district administration and health team initiating active surveillance of persons reporting in hospitals with influenza like illness (ILI) and severe acute respiratory illness (SARI). The capital, which has witnessed a steady drop in number of persons under room isolation, indicative of successful completion of quarantine without symptoms, has had a cumulative total of over 100 persons with symptoms who are being hospitalized in the past two weeks. Thiruvananthapuram is next to Kasaragod and Kannur in terms of symptomatic persons under hospitalization while the number under this category has been dipping in other districts.  Since April 1, the number of symptomatic persons under hospitalization has increased from 77 to 106 and more than 20 persons have been hospitalized on a daily basis with symptoms during the last two weeks. It was during the last week of March, the district witnessed a spurt in cumulative number of persons being hospitalized with symptoms. In the second week of March when the district reported the first bout of cases, an average of 40-60 persons were hospitalized with symptoms in the district. The total number crossed 100 on March 26. The health authorities attribute a higher cumulative total of symptomatic persons in hospitals owing to revised guidelines in testing and admission as well as implementation of enhanced surveillance. The health department had issued two guidelines on testing, quarantine and admission on March 12 and March 31. In the revised advisory issued on March 31, testing was mandated for all hospitalized patients with SARI, all symptomatic health care workers who have taken care of Covid-19 patients or all symptomatic health care workers in case of established community transmission. Besides, testing is now mandated for all symptomatic persons who have attended mass gatherings, festivals or funerals in the past 14 days where people from abroad are likely to have attended. “We are collecting data on hospitalization of patients with SARI and ILI from 45 private hospitals in addition to government health centres and hospitals. We are closely observing such patients as per the revised guidelines for testing, quarantine and admission. The cumulative number has not dipped below 100 mainly because of our enhanced surveillance of symptomatic cases being reported in hospitals,” said Anu S Nair, deputy collector, disaster management. The health officials associated with Covid-19 management said that even diabetes patients who report respiratory distress are being closely monitored. The district administration has already started classifying containment zones and buffer zones in the district. As part of surveillance in buffer zone, review of ILI/SARI cases reported in the past 14 days is being done to identify any missed case of Covid-19. Besides, as per the guidelines of the ministry of health and family welfare, enhanced passive surveillance for ILI and SARI in the buffer zone has to be done through the integrated disease surveillance programme. All health facilities including government and private ones in buffer zone have to report clinically suspect cases of Covid-19 on real time basis.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/thiruvananthapuram/district-intensifies-vigil-on-persons-with-sari-and-ili/articleshow/75187515.cms||Aswin J Kumar
April 17, 2020||Hubballi||Deceased woman’s neighbour tests positive in Gadag||Hubballi: Gadag district reported second Covid-19 positive case on Thursday. Patient 304 is a-59- year old woman. According to the district administration, she is the neighbour of P-166, the woman who had tested positive for coronavirus infection and died on April 9 due to cardiac arrest during treatment at the Gadag Institute of Medical Sciences. Both the women were friends and used to chat for hours sitting in front of their houses in Ranganwadi after lunch and dinner. The new patient, P-304, has four children, son-in-law and a granddaughter, all living in the same house. Doctors have sent their throat swabs to the lab and kept them in isolation ward of GIMS. The officials also said that they have traced as many as 416 secondary contacts of P-166 of which 79 people’s throat swab have been sent for testing. They added that efforts are on to trace primary and secondary contacts of P-304. Ranganwadi from where these two positive cases have been reported has already been announced as the containment area. Vehicular and people movement has been restricted. Essential services are being delivered at the doorstep of residents, said district administration officials.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hubballi/deceased-womans-neighbour-tests-positive-in-gadag/articleshow/75187188.cms||---
April 17, 2020||Mumbai||Maharashtra: 1 lakh more LPG cylinders sold in April, petrol, diesel use down to trickle||MUMBAI: Maharashtra has witnessed a spurt in the use of LPG cylinders following the nationwide lockdown from March 24 to tackle coronavirus. By contrast, consumption of petrol and diesel has reduced drastically, which has resulted in a revenue loss of Rs 1,200 crore for the government in the current month. An official said LPG consumption has increased to six lakh cylinders a day from five lakh earlier. On the other hand, petrol consumption has reduced to 35 lakh litres a day from 1.3 crore litres earlier and diesel to 80 lakh litres a day from 2.6 crore litres. On LPG cylinders, the official said the lockdown has brought the entire hotel and restaurant industry to a grinding halt and people have no option but to eat at home. “Hotels, restaurants and even roadside eateries are shut. Now people cook at home. The use of gas cylinders in commercial establishments has shrunk to just 18% of the usual consumption since the lockdown.” On petrol and diesel, the official said since there is a complete ban on movement of all vehicles as well as restriction on the use of fuel, there is little demand. “We expect the situation to improve once the lockdown is lifted,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/1l-more-lpg-cylinders-sold-in-apr-petrol-diesel-use-down-to-trickle/articleshow/75188208.cms||Prafulla Marpakwar
April 17, 2020||Dehradun||Inquiry ordered in death of 6-year-old girl inside sealed locality in Doon||Dehradun: An inquiry has been ordered in the case of a six-year-old girl who died on Wednesday in Bhagat Singh Colony area which was sealed by the district administration earlier this month after three Corona-positive cases were reported from there. The girl’s father has claimed that the doctor at the local government dispensary — where he took the girl — didn’t check the girl properly and just gave her a medicine for fever although she had an injury. The dispensary’s doctors though denied that the man had brought the child to them. Chief medical officer (CMO) of Dehradun, Dr Meenakshi Joshi, said she has ordered an inquiry in the matter.Talking to TOI, the girl’s father said that his daughter had received an injury near her thigh while playing in the afternoon on April 9. She remained restless through the night after which the next day, on April 10, he took her to a local government dispensary where he alleged that the doctor did not examine the girl properly and saw her from a distance after which she just gave them a strip of Paracetamol to take, and put down the girl’s name and age in a register. When the girl’s discomfort persisted, the family called up a private doctor on phone subsequently who advised two more medicines.However, the girl’s health did not improve and her condition deteriorated further and she died on Wednesday. The girl’s father alleged that if the doctor at the government dispensary might have checked her properly, she could have been saved.Reacting to the allegations, Dr Anand Shukla, head of the team manning the government dispensary in the area, told TOI that this is an unfortunate incident but the girl’s father never approached the doctors at their dispensary. “We have checked the records and there is no mention of the name of either the girl or her father. I think he must have shown her to some other local doctor in the area and there is a miscommunication that caused the unfortunate incident. We are regularly checking 70 to 80 cases in the dispensary every day and referring critical cases to other hospitals too,” he added. District magistrate Ashish Srivastava, reacting to the matter, said, "The police and chief medical officer are already looking into the matter at their levels. Once we have the outcomes of the inquiry, we will take necessary action if needed."||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/inquiry-ordered-in-death-of-6-year-old-girl-inside-sealed-locality-in-doon/articleshow/75188785.cms||---
April 17, 2020||Coimbatore||Colour-tagging of vehicles from Monday||Coimbatore: In a bid to discourage people from stepping out of their homes, police in rural parts of the district have been directed to mark vehicles with different colours. Police are using seven colours to mark vehicles. The colours will help identify vehicle-owners who are loitering outside on a regular basis. If motorists are using the marked vehicle except from the allotted days, the vehicle will be seized and cases will be registered against its owner, police said.  “One person from a family can only come out to buy essentials and they should buy it for one week. We are marking vehicles with seven colours of paints. If a vehicle is marked red, it will be allowed to step out only on Sunday. If the said vehicle is out on any other weekdays, it will be seized and the vehicle owner will be booked. Only after the lockdown, the vehicle will be handed over to the owner,” said Sujit Kumar, Superintendent of Police, Coimbatore district.  As per the circular, vehicles marked with red are allowed on Sunday from 6 am to 1 pm, those marked white will be allowed on Monday, brown for Tuesday, purple for Wednesday, yellow for Thursday, blue for Friday and green for Saturday. The system will be implemented across the district from April 20.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/colour-tagging-of-vehicles-from-monday/articleshow/75189780.cms||---
April 17, 2020||Pune||Maharashtra: Doctors place some Covid-19 patients on stomach to beat ARDS||PUNE: Doctors dealing with Covid-19 patients are placing some severe acute respiratory distress syndrome (ARDS) cases on their stomachs to improve oxygen supply to their lungs. This technique, called ‘prone positioning’, allows oxygen to reach more parts of the lungs and reduces the conflict between blood and oxygen supply in the organ. The first critical Covid-19 patient in Pune was placed in a prone position, her doctors at Bharati Hospital, intensivists Shivkumar Iyer and Jignesh Shah, said. She recovered well and is back home. Other doctors told TOI that they have used the technique while treating H1N1 patients and it could bring results in Covid-19 patients too. Ashok Mahashur, a leading pulmonologist from Mumbai, said patients with very advanced ARDS are placed in prone position. “When the patient is supine (on his back), the alveoli (air sacs which allow for rapid gaseous exchange) at the base of the lungs, get compressed. Due to gravity, the blood circulation to these air units continues and there is a mismatch in the blood supply and ventilation. In the prone position, the alveoli open up and ventilation gets better, thereby improving oxygenation,” he said. C Vijay Kumar, a leading pulmonologist with the Apollo Hospital group in Hyderabad, said India has used prone positioning since 2005, and it gained acceptance after the H1N1 pandemic in 2009-10. The method found more takers after a study by a team of doctors led by Claude Guerin was published in the New England Journal of Medicine in 2013. It concluded that in patients with severe ARDS, early application of prolonged prone-positioning sessions significantly decreased 28-day and 90-day mortality. Kumar said the technique helps doctors treat what’s called ‘Baby Lungs’ where the lungs have a limited breathing capacity due to infection or injury. Kumar, who is treating Covid-19 patients, cited the example of a patient of viral pneumonia from the outskirts of Hyderabad last year, who took a nine-hour ambulance ride in the prone position, and was cured after treatment. The Union health ministry in its guidelines for clinical management of Covid-19 on March 17 said, “ In patients with severe ARDS, prone ventilation for more than 12 hours per day is recommended. Application of prone ventilation is strongly recommended for adult and paediatric patients with severe ARDS but requires sufficient human resources and expertise to be performed safely.” The medical experts had a word of caution. Mahashur said the technique is not effective for all patients. Prone positioning that helped H1N1 patients could help Covid-19 patients too on a case to case basis, Jalil Parkar, a pulmonologist from Lilavati Hospital in Mumbai, said. Chest specialist from Pune, Nitin Abhyankar, said proning should not be seen as the primary method to save a Covid-19 patient with respiratory distress. “Proning is in the experimental stage. Only strong data will prove its effectiveness,” he said. There are set guidelines for its use. “Prone ventilation is used as rescue therapy when oxygenation doesn't improve beyond a specific level,” intensivists Iyer and Shah said. When there is only a single organ like the lungs affected and the patient's other vital parameters are within normal range, then prone ventilation can rescue a patient, they added. If a patient has very low blood pressure and cardiac rhythm abnormalities, the techniques is risky, the doctors said. The Pune woman was young, had no co-morbidity, and got medical help on time. “She also had no secondary infections. Only her lungs were affected,” they added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/doctors-place-some-covid-19-patients-on-stomach-to-beat-ards/articleshow/75190387.cms||Swatee Kher
April 17, 2020||Hyderabad||GHMC helpline gets 400 calls a day over Covid-19 symptoms||HYDERABAD: As many as 25 people tested positive for coronavirus in the Greater Hyderabad Municipal Corporation (GHMC) limits on Thursday, even as only two people had called the Covid-19 control room to inform that they had exhibited symptoms. The GHMC control room has been getting around 400 calls everyday, on an average, from people who say that they were showing symptoms since the last four days. The two callers have been shifted to King Koti quarantine centre and the others were moved to Gandhi Hospital. On Thursday, GHMC pressed into service multi-disciplinary teams to trace the primary contacts of the 25 cases. “Samples will be collected for testing. Primary contacts will be shifted to government quarantine centres for observation. If the primary contacts test positive, then they will be shifted to Gandhi Hospital,” said a GHMC official. The localities where these 25 people reside were declared as containment zones. Roads leading to these localities were barricaded by giving one common entry and exit point. Teams were pressed into service to conduct door-to-door fever survey and sanitation has been taken up. A nodal officer has been appointed for each cluster. The residents can contact the nodal officer to receive the essentials. “We have selected vendors to supply essentials at the 25 spots. Disinfectant spraying will be taken up twice a day in these localities,” said a GHMC official. The officials are also probing to find out the travel history of the people who have tested positive and are trying to reach them. GHMC also received calls from people living in containment clusters asking for ambulances and the sick were moved to nearby hospitals. According to GHMC officials, the number of calls asking for essentials has also increased since the last two days. “On Thursday, we got 17 calls asking for essentials, we supplied them through nodal officers. The civic body is also taking feedback from foreign returnees and has kept 32 ambulances in stand by,” said a GHMC official. A total of 25 positive cases were tested on Thursday. They have been sent to Gandhi Hospital. Areas near their residences have been marked as containment zones||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/ghmc-helpline-gets-400-calls-a-day-over-covid-19-symptoms/articleshow/75189777.cms||---
April 17, 2020||Dehradun||Uttarakhand records 77% rain surplus during first 45-days of pre-monsoon season||Dehradun: Uttarakhand has recorded 77% surplus rainfall in the first 45-days of the three-month-long pre-monsoon season, with the majority of districts in the hill state receiving more than normal rainfall.The Indian Meteorological Department (IMD) categorises the three-month period between March 1 and May 31 as pre-monsoon season, followed by the monsoon season, which begins from June 1 and ends at September 30. According to regional meteorological centre, Uttarakhand received 124.5 mm rainfall against normal of 70.3 mm with a departure of 77%. It is to be noted that in four districts, the surplus breached three-digit mark.Among the districts, Haridwar received the maximum rainfall and witnessed a 310% rain surplus, followed by Udham Singh Nagar, which recorded 163% excess shower. Nainital and Dehradun districts received 151% and 148%, respectively, which is more than the normal rainfall. “Majority of the districts received surplus rains in March. We recorded widespread rainfall last month. However, April has been dry compared to March, with isolated spell of rain and thunderstorm,” said Bikram Singh, director, regional meteorological centre. Out of the 13 districts, only Chamoli district witnessed less than normal rainfall with 4% rain deficit during the first half of the pre-monsoon season.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/uttarakhand-records-77-rain-surplus-during-first-45-days-of-pre-monsoon-season/articleshow/75188799.cms||Gaurav Talwar
April 17, 2020||Vijayawada||At Kasinayana kshetram, doors always open to serve migrants and the destitute||NANDYAL: When the country has come to a grinding halt due to Covid-19, a beehive of activity is seen on a kutcha road into the woods of Nallamala. After entering the forest on Nandyal-Atmakur highway, there is a shrine of Lord Shiva and a small pond. Along the side temple, a small four-roomed house is the people’s attraction. Kasinayana nityannadana kshetram is a 24x7 food court that serves food to everyone who visits the area. Migrant labourers, vegetable vendors, shiva devotees, orphans, agriculture labourers are depending on the Kasinayana kshetram to stave off hunger. They need no identity cards or Aadhaar. They could go to the ashram and have breakfast, lunch or dinner. The ashram organisers braved the lockdown restrictions to continue the nityannadanam as it is helping the poor go home without hungry. The police, deployed to Nandyal for lockdown duties, are having food here. Two sweets, a hot snack, two vegetable curries, dal, rasam, pachi pulusu, papad and buttermilk are part of the menu. While two more sweets are added on Saturday, it is a grand meal on Maha Shivarathri and Dattatreya jayanthi festivals as vegetable biryani, varieties of sweets and many more items are added to the plate. Kazu kheer made with moong dal is a delicacy. After the meal, pan is served. “In Rayalaseema, people are ready to offer everything for the poor although the region suffers from continuous droughts,” says Gopireddy Srinivasa Reddy, writer and social activist. While idli is breakfast on Sunday, Pongal and upma are served on other days. Asked why so many items on the menu, Gopireddy says Rayalaseema does not discriminate between the rich and the poor. Kasinayana kshetram has been serving food for decades. While the daily turnout will be around 200, the numbers would touch 600-800 during the weekend market mela (Santha) on Saturdays. “You can find Kasinayana annadana khetrams for every 25-30km in Kurnool and Kadapa districts where annadanam activities are going on similar scale with support of devotees and local farmers,” said Ramachandra Reddy, a patron at the kshetram. Kasinayana is a spiritual guru in the region. While influential politicians of yesteryears and industrialists sought his blessings, the guru used to stay with the poor and the destitute. He was responsible for renovation of many temples in the region. The house of a poor woman Akula Gangavva where Kasinayana stayed during his last days in the 1990s, has been converted as the Annadana kshetram by his disciples. Farmers visit the kshetram after harvest and donate paddy and pulses. Those who could not offer produce due to drought would donate cash. “Giving food to the hungry and water to the thirsty is the only message of Kasinayana. We are fortunate to be part of such a mission,” said Peera Saheb, a farmer. There is no need for kshetram organisers to struggle to raise funds as people, chiefly farmers in the region, step forward to help in all ways.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/at-kasinayana-kshetram-doors-always-open-to-serve-migrants-and-the-destitute/articleshow/75188796.cms||Samdani MN
April 17, 2020||Coimbatore||We buy cheap vegetables and shunned spices, masalas||Cleared/Ali K Rajashekhar’s family of four, in Panaimarathur, has been cooking their meals without spices or any masalas since April 1. For, Rajashekhar who is a painter by profession has not had any jobs since the janata curfew on March 22. The family now depends on his wife, who has taken up a job as a domestic maid, for their daily bread. Butter is not even a possibility. Rajashekhar, in his late thirties, says he works for a painting contractor and gets paid around Rs 700 a day. He also gets work at least four to five days a week. “When I used to earn around Rs 11,000 a month, my wife could stay home, and we could buy groceries for the entire month for Rs 3,500. But I have been with no income since March third week, and except the Rs 1,000 they gave us at the ration shop, we have no money to even eat,” he says. “Which is why I had to come to work and earn Rs 6,500 a month,” says his wife, Sumithra. The Rs 1,000 dole and the ration shop giving them free rice, oil, sugar and dal is giving them some breathing space now. “But these rations will not even last for 10 days. With my salary, which I am getting every week, we can buy some vegetables which are cheap,” says Rajashekhar. “But we have stopped buying milk, thus we don’t have curd. We can’t afford to add turmeric, chilli powder and sambar masala in our sambar or rasam, so the food tastes different. While my children sometimes throw a tantrum, they mostly understand the situation and eat,” he says.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/we-buy-cheap-vegetables-and-shunned-spices-masalas/articleshow/75189775.cms||---
April 17, 2020||Mysuru||5 TN labourers walk 200km without food, one falls ill||Chikkamagaluru: Five middle-aged construction workers had to halt their walk to their native place of Vellore in Tamil Nadu after one of them fell ill out of starvation at Tarikere in Chikkamagaluru district on Thursday. They had already walked 200km without food when some people in Tarikere noticed them struggling and informed police. They were soon provided food and shifted to a relief camp by police. Their contractor had asked them to leave the construction site in Sagar, Shivamogga district, after extension of the Covid-19 lockdown, said police. The group stared its journey from Sagar on Wednesday night. They travelled the whole night on NH 206 and crossed the Shivamogga border at Bhadravathi. The construction workers’ walk to Vellore would have made them cover 600km, crossing four district checkposts.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mysuru/5-tn-labourers-walk-200km-without-food-one-falls-ill/articleshow/75190610.cms||---
April 17, 2020||Coimbatore||City police enforce mandatory mask norm||Coimbatore: The city police registered 19 cases against the motorists who ventured out without wearing face masks.RS Puram sub-inspector Mohanajothi and team had stopped K Anish, 24, of Periyar Nagar in Puliyakulam, while conducting vehicle check near the Lawley Road – Thadagam Road junction on Wednesday. “He was roaming through the city without wearing mask and any valid documents. He had violated the prohibitory orders even though he knew about the seriousness of the situation,” a police officer said.Police registered a case against him under Section 269 (negligent act likely to spread infection of disease dangerous to life) of the Indian Penal Code, sections 130 and 207 of the Motor Vehicles Act, 1988.The Variety Hall Road police registered a case against 32-year-old S Vinoth of Sukrawarpet in the city for not wearing facemask. Sub-inspector Sivakumar and team had apprehended him while conducting vehicle check on the RG Street – Edayar Street junction on Wednesday. Police seized Vinoth’s motorcycle and registered a case against him. He was arrested and later let off on bail.After the district was classified as red zone, collector K Rajamani had instructed people to wear facemask while visiting public places.Tirupur collector K Vijayakarthikeyan had announced that 500 fine will be slapped on those who are not wearing mask.The Chennai city police had threatened to slap Rs 500 fine on those who come out without face mask.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/city-police-enforce-mandatory-mask-norm/articleshow/75189791.cms||---
April 17, 2020||Pune||In the midst of anxiety, a charitable community spirit wakes up across cities||PUNE: Rising above fear and anxiety over Covid-19, people have unlocked generosity, consideration and selflessness for others. Help is pouring in from individuals, organisations and groups of people to lessen hardships among senior citizens, migrants, daily wage labourers and the homeless; stray animals are not left out. The giving is not just about food or ration. People, especially youths, are going out of the way to buy medicines, women are cooking simple nutritious food for senior citizens in their societies, some are giving tips on how to manage restless children at home or conducting yoga classes for migrants in the shelters set up by the government. Restaurants and dining halls are quietly operating their kitchens to provide food for the thousands of migrants. Animal groups have taken to feeding stray dogs who can no longer find food since everything is shut. Not just in Pune, the art of giving has encompassed Kolhapur, Nashik and Aurangabad involving individuals and hundreds of organisations. From providing food and water to the policemen on duty to distributing food packets among the needy, Punekars have contributed in large numbers to ensure that everyone has access to at least the basic survival needs.  Jai Ganesh Group from Kachi Ali with self-employed persons has been distributing breakfast to policemen and migrants around Swargate. “We started serving food to do something for the personnel who man the roads 24x7 for our safety. Fifteen of us are involved and take turns to go out and distribute food while our wives cook the meals,” Chetan Lodha, a member, said. NGOs are taking the lead to ensure that help and food reaches those in need. “ We have been distributing food packets to migrants at the shelter camps and people in the slums,”Samaiirah, from Safe Road Foundation, said. Youths across the city have taken it upon themselves to ensure that senior citizens get everything they need without stepping out. Shruti Shete , a city resident, who runs a health cafe in Baner, has been donating groceries and green groceries to an old age home and in some slums around Balewadi since the lockdown began. About 100 NGOs, scores of individuals and groups led by activists and prominent citizens, are working with the Aurangabad police to offer food, dry ration kits to the poor, migrant workers and the destitute. Several doctors, teachers, educationists, religious leaders, and even executives re chipping in. The police have granted permission for them to work in accordance with their respective expertise in healthcare, ration kits, packed food and those distributing other necessary articles. SP Jawalkar, a retired principal and his group of 10 people, prepare 400 food packets for the migrant labourers at Bhalgaon camp being run from Yashwantrao Chavan Ayurvedic Medical College, and two other camps. Abdul Husain, 68, founder of a private school distributes dry ration kits. “It is not charity, but our contribution to the unfortunate,” Husain said. In Nashik, gurdwaras have started cooking while some NGOs have taken the responsibility to distribute it. An NGO took up distribution of milk for babies. Navin Doshi, 78, who owns a naturopathy centre in Deolali and his team, cook two meals for 800 people every day. In Kolhapur, over 800 migrant workers and travellers are staying in 11 shelter homes. Ujjwala Khebudkar, headmistress of Chetana Vikas School, has taken up the task of keeping them engaged. “I take yoga sessions one day and other activities another day. A migrant from Karnataka who wanted to learn Marathi. I bought him a notebook, pencils and introductory books on Marathi. Now, he can write some words,” she said. Activist Apurva Naniwadekar-Singh has taken up the task to keep children engaged. “We have made social media groups through which children are given a task every day. On one day we tell the children to help their mother clean utensils or make food. On another day, we tell them to draw something for their parents,” she said. A volunteers’ group from Kolhapur has tied up with the social welfare department to manage helplines for persons with disabilities. Shankar Mane, a volunteer, said, “The closest person delivers essentials, ration and medicines to them. We have other groups who have joined us and make donations or give ration. We deliver the essentials to around 50 to 60 disabled persons every day.” (With inputs from Pune, Nashik, Kolhahur and Aurangabad)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/in-the-midst-of-anxiety-a-charitable-community-spirit-wakes-up-across-cities/articleshow/75190397.cms||---
April 17, 2020||Pune||Pune: Five more die, 60 fresh cases registered||PUNE: Five more patients diagnosed with the novel coronavirus (Covid-19) infection succumbed to associated complications at Sassoon hospital since Tuesday, confirmation of which could only be made on Thursday. With this, the number of Covid-19 casualties has gone up to 45 in Pune Metropolitan Region (PMR) so far. The five victims had some or the other underlying medical condition. They were residents of Wakadewadi (Shivajinagar), Parvati,Ganjpeth, Kondhwa and Gultekdi. Besides, 60 fresh cases of the infection were registered in the PMR on Thursday. Of them, 54 cases were recorded in the limits of Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC). The remaining were registered in the Pimpri Chinchwad Municipal Corporation limits (PCMC) and rural parts of Pune. Most of the cases from the Pune city are from central Peth areas, Kondhwa, Guruwar Peth, Tadiwala Road, Wanowrie and various slums in the city. This has pushed the positive case count to 497 in PMR so far. Among the deceased, a 38-year-old man from Parvati succumbed to respiratory complications late on Tuesday (April 14). “He was admitted to the hospital on April 10. He was a known patient of cardiac ailment and had also developed viral myocarditis during the course of the treatment,” a doctor from the hospital said. A 65-year-old woman from Wakdewadi (Shivajinagar) was moved to the hospital on April 3. “She was a known patient of hypertension and was on medication for many years. She succumbed to respiratory complications late on Wednesday,” the doctor said. A 54-year-old man of Ganjpeth was admitted to the hospital on April 13 for breathlessness. He was a known patient of diabetes. He succumbed to Covid-19 associated respiratory complications on Thursday. “A 47-year-old man of Kondhwa was rushed to the hospital after he complained of chest congestion and breathlessness on April 9. He was a patient of diabetes associated kidney ailment. He fell victim to the complications on Thursday. Besides, a 55-year-old woman from Gultekdi was admitted to the hospital on April 14. She was a known patient of hypertension and cardiac disease. She also succumbed to complication on Thursday,” the doctor said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/five-more-die-60-fresh-cases-registered/articleshow/75190391.cms||Umesh Isalkar
April 17, 2020||Coimbatore||City police enforce mandatory mask norm||Coimbatore: The city police registered 19 cases against the motorists who ventured out without wearing face masks. RS Puram sub-inspector Mohanajothi and team had stopped K Anish, 24, of Periyar Nagar in Puliyakulam, while conducting vehicle check near the Lawley Road – Thadagam Road junction on Wednesday. “He was roaming through the city without wearing mask and any valid documents. He had violated the prohibitory orders even though he knew about the seriousness of the situation,” a police officer said. Police registered a case against him under Section 269 (negligent act likely to spread infection of disease dangerous to life) of the Indian Penal Code, sections 130 and 207 of the Motor Vehicles Act, 1988. The Variety Hall Road police registered a case against 32-year-old S Vinoth of Sukrawarpet in the city for not wearing facemask. Sub-inspector Sivakumar and team had apprehended him while conducting vehicle check on the RG Street – Edayar Street junction on Wednesday. Police seized Vinoth’s motorcycle and registered a case against him. He was arrested and later let off on bail. After the district was classified as red zone, collector K Rajamani had instructed people to wear facemask while visiting public places. Tirupur collector K Vijayakarthikeyan had announced that 500 fine will be slapped on those who are not wearing mask. The Chennai city police had threatened to slap Rs 500 fine on those who come out without face mask.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/city-police-enforce-mandatory-mask-norm/articleshow/75189787.cms||---
April 17, 2020||Chennai||Oppn demands Rs 1cr relief to kin of Covid-19 dead||Chennai: The DMK and its allies on Thursday demanded that the government provide Rs 1 crore each as relief to the families of every person who died of Covid-19 infection in the state. The opposition parties also demanded that the government increase the financial aid to family ration card holders from Rs 1,000 to Rs 5,000 as lockdown had wrecked their finances. DMK president M K Stalin had convened the meeting through video conference to discuss the situation in the state after the outbreak of Covid-19. Sources said 11 leaders participated in the meeting. So far, 15 people have died in TN because of Covid-19 outbreak, as per official figures. The parties demanded extra wages and hike in salary for front-line government staff engaged in fighting the pandemic. Any further delay in procuring protective gear, testing kits and other equipment would lead to catastrophic effects, the leaders said. “The Madras high court has ordered that there is no bar on parties and NGOs providing relief directly to the affected people. The court said those interested in distributing relief should seek permission from local officials 48 hours in advance. But the state government is bent on blocking us from distributing relief material,” said Stalin. The meeting said lockdown should not put human lives at risk. It wanted the Centre and state government to come out with workable strategies during lockdown. When police have no problem in deputy chief minister O Panneerselvam and law minister C Ve Shanmugham holding meetings in secretariat and at Villupuram respectively, why do they have problems in opposition leaders holding a meeting, asked Stalin.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/oppn-demands-rs-1cr-relief-to-kin-of-covid-19-dead/articleshow/75189793.cms||---
April 17, 2020||Dehradun||Face masks which can be worn like a helmet||Dehradun: Students of Shri Guru Teg Bahadur Sahib Gurmat Kendra - a free skills development institute in Dehradun - have developed a unique face mask which can be worn like a helmet. These masks were made by stitching an A4 sized overhead projector sheet (OHP) to an elastic band to hold it across the head. OHP sheets are usually transparent and covers the entire face. The institute on Thursday handed over 100 such face masks to officials of Doon district administration which will be distributed among people - particularly medical teams, police personnel and media persons. Harpal Singh Sethi, vice-president of the Gurmat Kendra, said, “Students of the institute are trying to develop a face mask which is easy to wear - mainly for people performing their duties on the ground during the lockdown. We had even given a few masks to vegetable vendors. So far, we have been able to make over 150 masks. And we have plans to make another 1,000 face masks soon.” The face masks will be provided free of cost, to people who need it during the lockdown, according to the institute. “Our initiative has been recognised by district administration officials and we will continue to make these face masks as part of our duty towards the people who have taken enormous risk while serving the country,” Sethi added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/face-masks-which-can-be-worn-like-a-helmet/articleshow/75188805.cms||---
April 17, 2020||Mumbai||No cake, no fan-fare on railways’ 167th birthday||MUMBAI: When, on April 16, 1853, the first train on Indian soil rolled out of Boribunder or what is now CSMT, it was with a loud, 21-gun salute and amid deafening applause from thousands who had turned up to see the inaugural run. In a little over an hour, it chugged into Tannah (now Thane), again to huge applause. Ever since, the railways have marked this historic moment with a grand celebration, one of the biggest of which was held in 2013, when they observed the first run’s 160th anniversary. On Thursday, its 167th anniversary, there was another first, one with a wistful twist. Not only was not a single train flagged off from CSMT owing to the lockdown, there was also no celebration or event to commemorate the historic occasion. Every year, the railways celebrate the occasion by organizing a railway week and holding an exhibition. In Mumbai, local trains are decorated with flowers and a small ceremony is performed to commemorate the anniversary. This week, however, there’s been no exhibition, no flowers and above all, no people rushing in and out of the Unesco World Heritage structure at Fort. Central Railway chief public relations officer Shivaji Sutar said, “It is unbelievable that such an occasion will pass without trains. It is a momentous day for the railways and the country, but circumstances are such that we could not celebrate.” Many railfans too turn up in large numbers at CSMT every year and travel to Thane by slow trains to mark the first journey of the Indian Railway. They were robbed of their annual run. Amey Save, a railfan, said, “We generally celebrate this day by cutting a cake in a train coach which we deck up a little for the occasion. It is really disappointing that it could not be done this year.” Another railfan, Aakash Karnani, said, “It is sad but then if you look at it from other angle, this is the first time the railway was able to take an off on its birthday.” These fans moved online too, like so many others during the lockdown. Karnani said that this year, quiz sessions were organized on online forums by rail aficionados to celebrate the occasion from home.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/no-cake-no-fan-fare-on-rlys-167th-birthday/articleshow/75190389.cms||---
April 17, 2020||Dehradun||Villagers in hills start at dawn, trek for kilometers to get essentials amid lockdown restrictions||Nainital: For several residents of Pilang, a remote village in Uttarkashi, it takes a trek of 14 kilometres, mule rides, a vehicle journey and a night stay in the district headquarters, to procure essential items such as salt, oil and sugar. With the nationwide lockdown extended and entering its fourth week, villagers in Pilang are a worried lot. Their stock of essential supplies is running out fast and the lockdown has made trips to the nearest market more uncertain than ever. The situation is no different in the remote villages spread across both Kumaon and Garhwal regions of Uttarakhand. Many villages have no paved roads. While most villagers get grains such as wheat and rice from the government Public Distribution System (PDS), they have to make trips to the markets for pretty much every other necessity. Atar Singh, the gram pradan of Pilang (which is home to around 100 families), said that they are presently deputing one person from the village to make the trip to the nearest market every few days to get provisions for around a dozen families. “The deputed person reaches the nearest motorable road, books a vehicle and goes to the district headquarters. However, since the journey takes anywhere between five to six hours, the person has to stop for the night there and can only return the next day. The vehicle drops the person and the goods on the road and then we arrange for mules to ferry the goods to the village,” Singh said. Special permission is required from local authorities to book a vehicle and mules have also become scarce in Uttarkashi. “Almost all the hotels and guest houses are shut, so there is no place to stay for the night. I do have permission from the SDM for a vehicle but since mules are scarce right now, sometimes we don’t have any option but to carry the essentials up to the villages by ourselves,” Singh said. Like Pilang, residents of Kanar and Metali villages of Dharchula, Pithoragarh district and Poth village of Champawat district also have to make treacherous trips to the nearest marketplace. Kanar has a population of around 1,000 and is 16 km away from the local market, Baram town, while Metali, home to roughly 1,200 villagers, is 5 km away. “Due to the lockdown, essentials are available now only from 7 am to 1 pm. So villagers have to wake up at dawn to reach the shops in time. A young man takes three to four hours to reach Baram from Kanar, while an elderly person would take four to five hours,” said Jeet Singh, a villager of Kanar. “With all eateries being closed because of the lockdown, the villagers also have to carry food with them,” Singh added. “Horses and mules are available to carry loads, but the charges are Rs 500 per quintal. Villagers here are too poor to afford that,” said Narendra Singh, a resident of Metali village. Pooran Singh of Poth had a similar story. “We have to leave before dawn because most shops are open only till noon and it takes us anywhere between three to five hours to cover the 17-kilometre-long journey to the market. Also, we cannot return the same day. After we get the essential items, we have to stop for the night and start the journey again the next day,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/villagers-in-hills-start-at-dawn-trek-for-kilometers-to-get-essentials-amid-lockdown-restrictions/articleshow/75188829.cms||Prashant Jha
April 17, 2020||Pune||Pune Municipal Corporation to form 15 response teams to check virus spread||PUNE: The civic body will form 15 response teams at the ward-office level to control the spread of Covid-19 that has so far claimed 43 lives. These teams will coordinate numerous tasks pertaining to suspected as well as positive patients. They will also be responsible for resources management regarding Covid-19 mitigation programme. Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) officials said they would use these teams to coordinate the activities with the PMC’s head office. “These teams will help in transporting the patients and also in other work related Covid-19 containment plan,” PMC additional commissioner Rubal Agrawal said. The teams will comprise officials from the health, establishment, solid waste management and electrical departments. The teams will also coordinate with ambulances for the transportation of patients. The officials said the PMC was facing delays in getting the data from the Sassoon hospital. To tide over this inconvenience, the teams will help the civic administration collect the data.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/pmc-to-form-15-response-teams-to-check-virus-spread/articleshow/75190401.cms||---
April 17, 2020||Thiruvananthapuram||A ‘Kerala House’ without Kunjappan||Thiruvananthapuram: He died peacefully in his sleep, but, Kanjupparambil Mathew Kunjappan can be considered as a victim of the Covid-19 pandemic, although he was not infected. The 71-year-old had made countless friends from all spheres of life during the past four decades as a restaurateur. Blame it on the Covid-19 pandemic, there were only a handful of people around when he was given the final farewell. Kunjappan, the owner of Kerala House Restaurant located right across the Secretariat at Statue Junction, was found dead in his room on Thursday morning. The death occurred at his residence ‘Kanjupparambil Kuttanad House’ in Pettah. The funeral was held at Lourde Forane Church’s cemetery at Nalanchira at 5pm on Thursday. Kunjappan’s restaurant, Kerala House, has remained a favourite hangout place of littérateurs, artists and politicians just like the Indian Coffee House nearby. The difference was that Kunjappan was also an active part of heated discussions and debates that happened around each table in his restaurant. His friend list include who’s who of socio-political and artistic fields like poet A Ayyappan and D Vinayachandran, veteran journalists N Madhavan Kutty and P K Rajasekharan to filmmaker Madhupal and writer Unni R to name a few. In 2006, Kunjappan started another venture, Kuttanad Restaurant, opposite to St. Joseph's school campus. The hotel which offered nadan meals and fish varieties at moderate rate was also a favourite place of city residents.  Speaking to TOI Madhupal said Kunjappan was someone who encouraged discussions and debates on art in his restaurant. “It was in the mid 90’s that I was introduced to Kerala House and I was relatively the youngest among those who frequented there. Kunjappan always took time to sit with us to discuss a range of topics despite the age difference,” Madhupal said adding that it was in fact, Kunjappan, who introduced the idea of ‘arteria’ to the capital city. A decade ago, Kunjappan had thrown open his restaurant walls to a group of fine arts students in the city, who adorned the walls with their artistic expressions. Eminent painter Dr Ajith Kumar said it was an irony that Kunjappan had to leave this way with majority of his friends not around. Kunjappan leaves behind wife Marykutty Kunjappan and daughters Annu Kunjappan and Chinnu Kunjappan. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/thiruvananthapuram/a-kerala-house-without-kunjappan/articleshow/75187552.cms||---
April 17, 2020||Coimbatore||Students develop low-cost face shield||Coimbatore: A master’s student from a city college along with an IIT student from Guwahati has developed a low-cost face shield.The shield is made by attaching an A4 size transparent OHP sheet to general use transparent glasses, MSc Electronics student of Sri Ramakrishna College of Arts and Science Prasanna Kumar says. “It can be made for Rs 37 for a piece and will cost only Rs 35 if mass produced.”The shield protects the wearer’s face from forehead to chin, effectively covers the eyes, nose and ears. “It is recommended that this is used along with a disposable surgical mask,” said a statement from the student.“The students developed the shield as there is a shortage of goggles for doctors treating Covid-19 patients. The virus travels through aerosol and droplets and can easily attach onto the mucosa of doctors and nurses,” said a statement from the college.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/students-develop-low-cost-face-shield/articleshow/75189798.cms||---
April 17, 2020||Dehradun||‘Tehri royal family to decide on Badri temple opening’||Dehradun: With the chief priests of both Kedarnath and Badrinath yet to arrive in Uttarakhand and the mandatory 14-day quarantine on arrival in place, the council of ministers has decided to keep its other options open. “Badri Kedar Temple Committee (BKTC) has been asked to appoint other priests, if the Rawal cannot come on time or attend the opening ceremony,” the state minister for urban development Madan Kaushik said, adding that the dates of opening of Kedarnath portals cannot be changed. “For Badrinath dham, a decision on either postponing the date or appointing another priest has been given to the royal family of Tehri,” the minister said. The erstwhile royals are regarded as the custodians of the Badrinath shrine. The head of the family is called ‘Bolanda Badri’ (talking Badrinath) who announces the dates of opening of the shrine every year. “We studied that in the last 300-400 years, the dates have been changed on three or four occasions. Therefore, we have decided to request the royal family to take a call on the issue,” the minister said. While the chief priest of Kedarnath is stuck in Maharashtra, the Rawal of Badrinath is to start his journey from Kerala. “The Centre has given us the permission to bring them both by cars. Therefore, we are keeping other options open if they cannot reach on time or have to be quarantined after reaching Uttarakhand,” he added. Kaushik confirmed that the opening ceremony would be limited to religious rituals only. “These religious rituals will be done by maintaining social distancing,” said the minister. “The preparations for opening portals of nine other temples - Adi Kedar, Nanda Devi, Laxmi Mandir, Urvashi Mandir, Mata Murti Mandir, Vyas Gufaa, Ganesh Gufaa, Hanuman Mandir and Bhavishya Badri - will be done as per the instructions on the opening dates by the Tehri royal family. The district magistrates have been directed to make the required arrangements,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/tehri-royal-family-to-decide-on-badri-temple-opening/articleshow/75188838.cms||Kautilya Singh
April 17, 2020||Chennai||Chinese denied roof spends 10 days in Tamil Nadu cave, tests Covid-19 negative||TIRUVANNAMALAI: A 35-year-old Chinese man who made a cave atop of the Annamalayar Hills in Tiruvannamalai district his home for about 10 days after he was refused lodging in local hotels, tested negative for Covid–19, said district health officials. Yaorui Yang, a native of Beijing, China’s capital city, has been visiting India for the past decade or so to learn yoga. His first visit to Tamil Nadu this February, however, proved an ordeal owing to the Covid-19 outbreak and nationwide lockdown. “I am an ardent yoga student. I had visited Rishikesh several times where I pursue yoga training. I have visited several places in north India,” Yang told TOI from a private hospital bed, where he has been quarantined. “On coming to knew about the sacredness of the Annamalayar temple, I travelled to Tiruvannamalai,” said Yang. From February 26, when he reached Tiruvannamalai, he was staying in a rented house near Ramana Ashram. But after the nationwide lockdown began on March 24, the house owner forced him to vacate the house. “Wherever I went searching for an accommodation, lodge or house owners, after inquiring about my native country, treated me as an asymptomatic carrier of the virus and denied me accommodation,” he said. Finally, with the help of a local guide, Yang reached a cave atop of Annamalayar hills and lived there from March 25 to April 4. “Every morning, I got down from the cave to buy biscuits and water bottles and trekked back. My intention was not to hide or cheat the government but to stay in a safe place till the lockdown ends. Amid all the ordeal, my only wish is to stay at least a month in Tiruvannamalai and meditate,” Yang added. Tiruvannamalai district collector K S Kandasamy said, “Based on the tip by some local residents, we found Yang living inside the cave and immediately shifted him to a private hospital. Fortunately, he tested negative.” Until he can travel back home, the district administration will take care of his food and stay at the hospital, said the collector.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/chinese-denied-roof-spends-10-days-in-tn-cave-tests-ve/articleshow/75189802.cms||Karal Marx
April 17, 2020||Goa||25% hike in support price for cashew nuts likely||Margao/Keri: Deputy chief minister Chandrakant Kavalekar on Thursday said that the government has proposed to increase the support price for cashew nuts by 25% from Rs 100 per kg to Rs 125, for the current year. Also, support price for coconut has been proposed to be increased from Rs 10 to Rs 12 per nut and for kidney beans (alsano) from Rs 70 to Rs 100 per kg. Kavalekar told reporters after a meeting he had with chief minister Pramod Sawant that the latter has principally agreed to the proposal, which has now been sent to the finance department for its approval. Cashew cultivators from Sanguem and Sattari are facing hardships as they have been unable to fully harvest or sell the produce following the lockdown imposed in the state. Presently, cashew is selling for Rs 80 per kg in many parts of the state, but Goa Bagayatdar is purchasing cashew nuts for Rs 105 per kg. “This is the first time that cashew seeds are being valued below Rs 100. Because of this we have proposed to increase its support price while also increasing support price for coconut and ‘alsano’. We know that cashew is the cash crop of Goa,” Kavalekar said. Health minister Vishwajit Rane said, “For many families the cashew crop is the only source of livelihood. The government should take necessary steps to provide compensation and Bagayatdar should make arrangement to purchase cashew from these cultivators.” Meanwhile, a delegation of cashew farmers met Kavalekar at the secretariat and apprised him of the various problems faced by them.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/25-hike-in-support-price-for-cashew-nuts-likely/articleshow/75190399.cms||---
April 17, 2020||Coimbatore||Fire destroys trees, plants on 10 acres of forest land in STR||Erode: Fire broke out at the Sathyamangalam Tiger Reserve (STR) in Erode district on Wednesday night destroying nearly 10 acres of forest land. “The fire erupted around 10pm at the Kambathrayangiri forest area and continued for two hours. Trees, herbal plants and dry grass grown on 10 acres were completely gutted,” a senior official from forest department said. A group of 50 forest personnel and fire and rescue services personnel put out the fire after two hours of struggle. The forest department has registered a case and initiated an inquiry.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/fire-destroys-trees-plants-on-10-acres-of-forest-land-in-str/articleshow/75189801.cms||---
April 17, 2020||Coimbatore||Students develop low-cost face shield||Coimbatore: A master’s student from a city college along with an IIT student from Guwahati has developed a low-cost face shield. The shield is made by attaching an A4 size transparent OHP sheet to general use transparent glasses, MSc Electronics student of Sri Ramakrishna College of Arts and Science Prasanna Kumar says. “It can be made for Rs 37 for a piece and will cost only Rs 35 if mass produced.” The shield protects the wearer’s face from forehead to chin, effectively covers the eyes, nose and ears. “It is recommended that this is used along with a disposable surgical mask,” said a statement from the student. “The students developed the shield as there is a shortage of goggles for doctors treating Covid-19 patients. The virus travels through aerosol and droplets and can easily attach onto the mucosa of doctors and nurses,” said a statement from the college.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/students-develop-low-cost-face-shield/articleshow/75189795.cms||---
April 17, 2020||Nashik||Foreigner who attended TJ meet recovers in Ahmednagar||Nashik: A French national who had been admitted to the Evangeline Booth hospital in Ahmednagar for Covid-19 treatment has recovered and set to be transferred to another hospital. The French national and another man from Ivory Coast were the first two people among a group of 35 who came to Ahmednagar district after attending the Tabligh Jamaat conference in Delhi. Both of them were admitted to Booth hospital on March 29 and tested positive for Covid-19. Later, two more foreigners from the same group tested positive for the contagion and are currently undergoing treatment at same hospital. “Although the French national has tested negative, he would be kept in an institutional quarantine facility at another private hospital after getting discharged from Booth hospital,” District collector Rahul Dwivedi told TOI. District civil surgeon Pradeep Murambikar said that the man from Ivory Coast will remain in Booth hospital as his two throat swab samples tested positive even after the treatment. He will be administered treatment for at least one more week before fresh throat swab tests are carried out,” he said. District administration officials said police will take custody of all the 35 people. FIRs have been lodged against them for not informing the local administration about their arrival in the district immediately after attending the congregation in Delhi. All of them will be produced together before a local court. Sagar Patil, additional superintendent of police, Ahmednagar, said police would take custody of the TJ event attendees after the health authorities give the green signal. The 35 people reached Ahmednagar district from Delhi in three groups and stayed in mosques without intimating the local administration. Some local residents who came in contact with these people tested positive for Covid-19 and are presently undergoing treatment.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/foreigner-who-attended-tj-meet-recovers-in-ahmednagar/articleshow/75188839.cms||---
April 17, 2020||Dehradun||2 dead, 3 injured in Bageshwar electrocution||PITHORAGARH: Two villagers were electrocuted while three others, including a lineman, received serious burn injuries while repairing electric lines in Kapkot Tehsil of Bageswar district. The electric line between Harsila and Kafauli was damaged when a tree fell on it on Sunday. Junior engineer Rajendra Sahi reached the spot along with some other workers to repair the power cable. “During the repair work, a wire touched a high-tension line and five men, Rajendra Singh (42), Gopal Joshi (40), Bhuwan Koranga (32), Naveen Pande (28) and Dinesh Pnade (40) received a shock,” said Bageshwar district magistrate Ranjana Rajguru. Villagers carried all the injured persons to the district hospital, where doctors declared Naveen Pande and Gopal Joshi dead. Bhuwan Koranga, who received 80 per cent burn injuries, was referred to a higher centre for treatment,” said SP Bageshwar Ruchita Juyal. Executive engineer of Uttarakhand Power Corporation Bhaspar Pande said that a departmental inquiry will be conducted into the matter. Meanwhile, the DM also said that an enquiry will be conducted by SDM Kapkot.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/2-dead-3-injured-in-bageshwar-electrocution/articleshow/75188852.cms||Prem Punetha
April 17, 2020||Thiruvananthapuram||Mizhi, a medium to explore creative side of students||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM: Started around 10 days ago, YouTube channel ‘Mizhi - ghss-thattathumala’, which displays talents of the students at Government Higher Secondary School, Thattathumala in Kilimanoor, has become a hit with more than 10,000 views. From music to literary programme, gardening and awareness programmes on Covid-19, students have uploaded more than 100 videos of their activities during the lockdown days. An initiative of school PTA, progressive alumni for student support at Thattathumala (PASST), school alumni group, SMC members and teachers, the YouTube channel was formally launched by education minister C Raveendranath on April 13. “The YouTube channel run by Thattathumala school students is a model for others. Students could be seen actively participating in activities in the videos. Children should be appreciated for engaging in creative activities,” said Raveendranath. Minister T M Thomas Isaac lauded the initiative on his Facebook post and said lockdown is no hurdle for children’s creativity. “The alumni group is actively engaged in school activities. The group was formed in 2018 when we conducted a reunion of students from batch 1954, the first batch of the school. Since, then we have taken up several initiatives in the school, including a summer camp last year. So, when the children are stuck at home during lockdown, we thought of keeping them engaged through creative programmes and started the YouTube channel,” said Jayakumar G, PASST president. Students send the activity video to alumni members, who edit the video and upload it the YouTube channel. Next, the school authorities and alumni members have planned to organise an online art festival from April 22. Music, mimicry, mono act and poetry recitation are some of the competitions planned. S Yahiya, PTA president, said the idea was to give a platform for students to showcase their talent. “Students will be asked to send a video of their performance as part of the event and it will be sent to a judging panel. Best performers will be given prize when the school reopens after lockdown,” said Yahiya.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/thiruvananthapuram/mizhi-a-medium-to-explore-creative-side-of-students/articleshow/75187590.cms||---
April 17, 2020||Erode||Three use Covid-19 to dupe people, held in Erode||ERODE: Three men were arrested in Erode on Thursday for trying to dupe people in name of raising money for Covid relief. The Erode north police identified the accused as K Venkatapathy, 56, C Girish kumar, 47, and M Krishnamurthy, 35, all from the city. Police said one of three men on Wednesday called Sudha Multi Speciality Hospital in the city and introduced himself as a retired judge. He urged Sathish Kumar, an administrative officer, who attended the call, to donate money for Covid-19 relief works. Sathish Kumar collected Rs 1 lakh, Rs 50,000 from hospital staff members and Rs 50,000 on behalf of the hospital management, inspector R Sivakumar said. “On Thursday, the three men came to the hospital to collect the money. Though he handed over the money, Kumar grew suspicious of them when he spoke to them,” the inspector said. Immediately, Kumar alerted the police. A police team reached the spot and arrested the trio. The police registered a case against the three under sections 271, 419, 420 and 506(1) of the IPC read with Section 3 of the Epidemic Diseases Act, 1897 and Section 51(b) of the Disaster Management Act, 2005. They were lodged at the district prison in Gobichettipalayam. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/erode/3-use-covid-to-dupe-people-held/articleshow/75189809.cms||---
April 17, 2020||Indore||No supply, demand for water tankers up in Indore||INDORE: It may just be the onset of summer season but water woes have already started affecting residents of Indore with each passing day. Residential localities in various part of the city have already started facing acute shortage of water, leaving residents with nothing but to look for alternate arrangements. Official sources from Indore Municipal Corporation (IMC) said that complaints regarding non-availability of water in various parts of the city have gone up. “The number of complaints for tankers have gone up to 100 and more,” they said. While IMC is supplying around 450 mld water through piped connections to a large area of the city on alternate days, other parts of the city, however, are dealing with shortage of water. Areas like Mahesh Guard Line, Kamla Nehru Nagar, Nag Garda Colony, etc are facing acute shortage of water. “There is no supply in our area for the last six days. We had been complaining for the last three days, but to no avail,” complained Shambhu Pathak, a resident of Mahesh Guard Line. Officials, however, cited a leakage in one of the gravity lines near Super Corridor on Tuesday morning as a reason behind disruption in supply. “Though the leakage was repaired on the same day, the supply could not be started until the next day owing to technical reasons. This affected supply to some residential localities. Alternate arrangement for supply was made in all affected areas,” they claimed. Earlier on Monday, there was a leakage in a supply line at Subhash Nagar. “Despite spending so much on maintenance of pumping and supply system, residents have to face acute shortage of water every summer. Electric faults and leakage related incidents have become a routine affair,” complained Ashish Sharma, a resident of Palasia. Corporation officials, however, said that demand of water goes up by 50 per cent during summer. “We have already deployed more than 100 tankers including 82 of corporation and remaining private tankers to ensure supply of water in affected areas on basis of complaints raised by residents,” said IMC Narmada Project executive engineer Sanjeev Shrivastava. He said that more number of tankers would be deployed as demand goes up.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/indore/no-supply-demand-for-water-tankers-up/articleshow/75189804.cms||---
April 17, 2020||Mysuru||Rowdy sheeter passes out drunk after breaking into wine store||Hassan: A history sheeter was arrested after he broke into a liquor outlet at Santepete under Pension Mohalla Police limits in the wee hours of Thursday and passed out drunk at the store. The accused has been identified as 27-year-old Rohith from Vallibhai Road. Two watchmen were guarding the bar during night hours, according to the police. Rohith allegedly removed a few of the terracotta roof tiles of the building to enter the store close to BM Road, they added. Being a regular visitor, Rohith knew well about the front and back gates of the bar and he gained entry to the building through a compound wall next to the building, they added. After entering the store, he immediately loaded two cases — one with cheap liquor and the other with multiple brands of liquor. Subsequently, he drank heavily and passed out at the store. It was only around 5.30am that the two guards noticed slippers near the compound wall which prompted them to look around. They spotted Rohith soon and alerted police. The police took the accused into custody and registered the case. Meanwhile, the Dakshina Kannada district police on Wednesday arrested a man selling illicit country made liquor and seized two litres of illicit liquor and 100 litres of wash used for brewing hooch at Paduvannur village in Puttur taluk. The arrested person has been identified as Sharath Kumar, 24, resident of Ariyadka, while one Keshav Gowda managed to give police a slip. A case was registered Puttur rural police station.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mysuru/rowdy-sheeter-passes-out-drunk-after-breaking-into-wine-store/articleshow/75187563.cms||---
April 17, 2020||Chennai||Income tax department disburses Rs 4,250 crore refund in April||CHENNAI: The income tax department has deposited refunds to the tune of Rs 4,250 crore pending to various assessors till April 14. All assessors, whose refund claim is less than Rs 5 lakh, have received refunds in their bank accounts. The Central Board of Direct taxes (CBDT) on Wednesday said it has already issued more than 10.2 lakh refunds, totalling to Rs 4,250 crore as on April 14. These refunds are over and above the 2.5 crore refunds issued in the financial year 2019-20 till March 31, totalling Rs 1.84 lakh crore. “About 1.75 lakh more refunds are in the process of issuance this week. These refunds will get credited directly to the taxpayer bank account in 5-7 business days from issuance,” said CBDT spokesperson Surabhi Ahluwalia. In around 1.74 lakh cases, however, email responses are awaited from taxpayers regarding reconciliation with their outstanding tax demand. For this, reminder emails have been sent asking them to respond within 7 days so that the refund can be processed accordingly, the spokesperson said. It may be noted that these reminder emails from the I-T department are for the benefit of taxpayers as it expects them to confirm their outstanding demand, their bank accounts and reconciliation of defect/mismatch prior to issue of refund, she said. CBDT has requested taxpayers to check for the email and login into their e-filing account to respond to the I-T department immediately. CBDT also said it has noticed in a few media, including social media, some questions are being raised with regards to CBDT’s computerised email to the taxpayers to respond within 7 days for enabling the department to process refund. “This is the routine communication with taxpayers to seek response on defective ITRs, prima facie adjustments and where confirmation is sought about certain claims made by them. In all such cases, a quick response from the taxpayer would enable the I-T department to process their refunds expeditiously,” she said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/i-t-disburses-rs-4250cr-refund-in-april/articleshow/75189812.cms||B Sivakumar
April 17, 2020||Hyderabad||Hyderabad: Cyber fraudsters target donors, blackmail women||HYDERABAD: A businessman who wanted to deposit Rs 10,000 in PM Cares Fund lost Rs 99,000 to a cyber fraudster. In another case, a lady doctor approached police stating that fraudsters, who claimed to have hacked her email account and recorded videos by remotely turning on her laptop camera, demanded $1,900 through bitcoins. On Thursday, businessman Venugopal approached cybercrime sleuths stating that on Wednesday he tried to transfer Rs 10,000 from his bank account to PM Cares Fund. “But the transaction did not go through and the complainant searched the internet for Prime Minister Relief Fund contact number. He dialed a phone number put up by fraudsters and they siphoned off Rs 99,000 from his bank accounts after collecting details of his bank account, debit card and OTPs,” cybercrime ACP KVM Prasad said. In another incident, a retired bank employee from Golconda approached police saying that fraudsters posing as SBI executives have contacted his 26-year-old daughter residing at Mehdipatnam and after gathering details of her bank account, they opened SBI Yono account and then internet banking accounts using the details provided by her. “Using the details, the fraudsters siphoned off Rs 5 lakh from the bank account in a span of six days from April 8,” the ACP said. Cyber crooks have also tried to blackmail a lady doctor from Somajiguda saying that they managed to hack into her email account and recorded private videos of her by remotely activating the laptop camera through installation of spyware. The offenders demanded $1,900 in the form of bitcoins to not circulate the videos among friends and family members of the complainant. Police suspect that that the accused are buying the emails and passwords on darknet and trying to blackmail people.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/cyber-fraudsters-target-donors-blackmail-women/articleshow/75189810.cms||Mahesh Buddi
April 17, 2020||Dehradun||Tribal communities being sensitised about Covid-19 through online tutorials||Dehradun: Several tribal communities of Uttarakhand have been affected due to the lockdown which has been imposed in the country. In particular, tribe members claim that certain sections of their communities are not properly aware about Covid-19 while few also claim that their traditional businesses have taken a hit. In order to spread awareness about the disease, government agencies like Tribal Cooperative Marketing Development Federation of India (TRIFED) have started online tutorials with the help of self-help groups to sensitise members of these communities. Speaking to TOI, Bir Singh, who belongs to the Jaunsari tribal community, which is spread across the Chakrata region of Garhwal, said that “there are many people among our 365 tribal villages, especially those who are in the interiors, who are still not taking the epidemic seriously.” “Many of them are not exposed to as much information regarding the epidemic as we are. The online workshops being organised by the government are helping many members get more information,” he added. Neelam Rana, a member of the Tharu tribe, which is spread across Khatima and Sitarganj towns of Udham Singh Nagar district, told TOI that there is lack of awareness in her community too. “Everybody knows about Covid-19 but still there are some people who are not giving much importance to social distancing and other essential norms,” said Rana. Ramesh Pangtey, a member of the Bhotiya tribal community of Pithoragarh, also echoed similar views. Members of the tribal communities further said that their businesses have taken a significant hit due to the lockdown. “Our Jaunsari community is traditionally involved in the business of manufacturing woollen clothes. We begin preparations for the next season during this time but amidst the lockdown, it is getting difficult to procure raw material,” said Bir Singh. Neelam Rana, too, added that the lockdown had affected their traditional business of making items like tea coaster, table mats, baskets and flower pots from Moonj grass Meanwhile, TRIFED, which is an organisation under the ministry of tribal affairs, is focusing on digital tutorials in which besides self-help groups, local artisans are also involved. The agency has also taken steps for the economic welfare of the tribal community. “We are providing online workshops with the help of UNICEF and WHO to tribal communities across the country. Our focus is to make sure that the even the tribal communities living in the most interior parts of the country know the importance of social distancing and washing their hands with soap. Also, we have asked various tribes to make three-layered face masks since there is a big demand for them. Later, we will be supplying these face masks to government bodies and in this way, it will help supplement the income of these communities too,” said Altaf Ansari, regional manager of TRIFED.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/tribal-communities-being-sensitised-about-covid-19-through-online-tutorials/articleshow/75188851.cms||Mohammad Anab
April 17, 2020||Coimbatore||Tantea resumes tea production in three factories in Nilgiris||Udhagamandalam: After a month-long shutdown, the Tamil Nadu Tea Plantation Corporation Limited (Tantea) has resumed tea production in three of the six factories in the Nilgiris with 50% of work strength at a time. Srinivas R Reddy, managing director, Tantea, said, “As per the district administration’s instruction, we sought the willingness of labourers to work. As majority of them were ready to come for work, we have resumed the operations.” With five factories located in the Nilgiris and one in Valparai, Tantea’s tea estate is spread across about 4,100 hectares, of which 950 hectares falls in Valparai in Coimbatore district. Tantea is yet to resume operations in Valparai. “While we have 50% workers, there aren’t enough green tea leaves to operate the five factories in the Nilgiris. Tea leaves are overgrown as operations were shut in the past one month,” Reddy said. The workers are plucking only the top tender leaves and gently chopping off the overgrown leaves underneath. “It will take another three weeks for a normal harvest of tea leaves,” he said. A factory requires at least 20,000kg to 30,000kg of green leaf tea a day to operate. Tantea has lost 80,000kg of green tea leaves per day in the past one month. There are about 4,300 field and factory workers and 240 supervisor-level staff with Tantea. On rotation system for now, 50% of workers is engaged in factories and tea fields. “We are taking all the mandatory precautionary measures, including physical distancing at workplace. Medical checkup is being done for the workers,” Reddy said. Regarding wages to the workers for the past month, he said, Tantea has sought clarification from the government.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/tantea-resumes-tea-production-in-three-factories-in-nilgiris/articleshow/75189818.cms||---
April 17, 2020||Dehradun||Gangotri highway remains closed for third consecutive day||Uttarkashi: The Gangotri national highway remained closed off for the third consecutive day on Thursday due to avalanche near Dharali region of Uttarkashi district.The Border Road Organization (BRO) workers, who were immediately deployed to remove the debris, faced troubles as the ice blocks from the hill slope were sliding continuously, officials said.“Despite some difficulties, the BRO workers are trying hard to restore the traffic. We will restore the highway by Friday morning,” Devendra Patwal, district disaster management officer, said.Notably, the Gangotri highway was blocked due to heavy avalanche from Changthang glacier situated ahead Dharali village on Tuesday evening. The heavy landslide has disconnected nearly half-a-dozen villages of Upla Taknor region of Bhatwari block.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/gangotri-highway-remains-closed-for-third-consecutive-day/articleshow/75188878.cms||Abhyudaya Kotnala
April 17, 2020||Goa||Mutilated carcass of whale shark washes up on Baga beach||PANAJI/CALANGUTE: A 5m-long carcass of the highly endangered whale shark, which is recognised as the largest of the fish species, was found on the Baga beach early Thursday morning. Its dorsal and tail fins had been cut off. Sources said that the whale shark (Rhincodon typus) was a male juvenile measuring 1.5m in width and 3m in girth. But it was not clear whether fishermen had targeted the whale at sea or if it had landed in their nets by accident, or washed ashore due to other factors. Drishti Marine lifeguards and other citizens informed the forest department about the carcass. A member of Goa marine stranding network (GMSW), which is a group of ecologists, divers and others monitoring such incidents, also visited the site. The rather sluggish non-mammalian vertebrate is known to inhabit the open waters of oceans and is rarely seen in coastal waters. Speculation is rife that it was alive or gasping for life when it washed ashore, as the carcass was in a fresh condition. A post mortem study was carried out by an AHVS veterinarian, Dr Charlotte Fernandes. The findings of the examination are awaited. The forest department with the help of the Calangute panchayat later buried the carcass at an undisclosed site.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/mutilated-carcass-of-whale-shark-washes-up-on-baga-beach/articleshow/75190407.cms||---
April 17, 2020||Trichy||‘Corona feast’ lands youths in a soup||Thanjavur: A youth was arrested and a few others booked on Thursday for organising a feast at Thyagasamudram village in Thanjavur on Wednesday in violation of section 144. They had uploaded a video of the event on Facebook and titled it Corona Virunthu (Covid-19 feast), which went viral. Based on a complaint lodged by VAO Divyakumari, Kabisthalam police arrested one of the organisers of the event and booked a few others under CrPC 188, IPC sections 269 (negligent act likely to spread infection of disease dangerous to life) and 3 of epidemic disease Act and section 67 of the IT Act. The arrested man was Sivaguru, 29, while Sakthivel, Shankar, Manikandan and a few other residents of the village have been booked. According to police, Sivaguru and the others cooked the food at a secluded place on the outskirts of the village on Wednesday and consumed it on plantain leaves facing each other. During interrogation, the youths stated that they had conducted the event just for fun, inspector Ganthimathi said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/corona-feast-lands-youths-in-a-soup/articleshow/75189816.cms||---
April 17, 2020||Coimbatore||Leopard trapped in barbed wire rescued||Udhagamandalam: Forest officials rescued a leopard that was caught in a barbed wire of a fencing at a private tea garden in Keddai village near Manjoor here on Thursday. The officials said the animal was first spotted by local residents. “They found the leopard, aged around two years, literally hanging from the fencing, unable to move. They immediately alerted us.” Saravanakumar, assistant conservator of forest, Nilgiris division, said the animal might have been trapped in the fencing on Wednesday night while attempting to cross the same by breaking that. According to the official, the leopard’s teeth were stuck to the top layer of the barbed wire. A team comprising anti-poaching watchers and forest officials rescued the leopard and released inside the forest area adjacent to the tea garden.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/leopard-trapped-in-barbed-wire-rescued/articleshow/75189814.cms||---
April 17, 2020||Thiruvananthapuram||An entomologist explores & explains coronavirus family||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM: At a time when experts and experimentalists in fields even far connected with science are contributing their mite to create awareness about Covid-19 pandemic, a seasoned agricultural entomologist, C A Jayaprakas, is on a mission to spread scientific awareness about fundamentals of virus family in general and one of its youngest progenies Sars coronavirus-2 in particular. “It all started with a very simple realisation that since the outbreak of Covid-19, discussions in media and other social platforms are more or less focused on the impact and spread of the disease. Not much is spoken about what sort of virus is causing the Covid-19 disease and how different is this virus from other members in its family. Many doesn’t even know what a virus means and many believe that coronavirus was detected only recently. My focus is mainly on students, especially youngsters between the age group of 15 and 17 years who by understanding the science behind the virus might develop an interest in scientific research. Along with the precaution they take, let people also know what this virus is all about,” says Jayaprakas who is the head and principal scientist with Central Tuber Crops Research Institute in the state capital. He avoids science jargons as much as possible during his lecture series and simplifies his explanation in such a way that secrets of science trickles down to every strata of the society. He chooses Malayalam as medium of lecture to target maximum number of common people. In his first virtual class voice clip, Jayaprakas explained how Russian botanist Dimitri Ivanovsky, in 1892, experimentally discovered presence of a microscopic particle smaller than bacteria while treating tobacco plant for mosaic infection. Later, explaining that the literal meaning of the Latin word virus, which means ‘venom’, he briefed how by 1898 another microbiologist and botanist Martinus Willem Beijerinck, father of virology, identified the venom and called it ‘contagium vivum fluidum’, meaning contagious living fluid. The speciality about Jayaprakas’ lecture series is that whoever listens to it would feel like he/she is sitting inside a classroom. During recoding, he imagines presence of his students, school and college mates and colleagues who are really interested to explore the nature and character of coronavirus. To break the monotony, Jayaprakas, at times, calls out his students by name while explaining about virus. In his later lectures, most of which are around 20 to 25 minutes, he has explained why soap lather is best for dissolving lipid outer sheath of coronavirus, which has comparatively more length and more weight than others in the virus family. Before explaining how the virus functions inside human lungs, he always makes sure that he tells his students about types of coronaviruses. “I am not an expert in virology. I depend on information I receive from reputed international journals. Let all benefit from such knowledge,” he says.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/thiruvananthapuram/an-entomologist-explores-explains-coronavirus-family/articleshow/75187607.cms||B S Anilkumar
April 17, 2020||Mumbai||Maharashtra and Mumbai top 3,000 and 2,000 cases in 4 and 6 days||MUMBAI: With the addition of 268 cases, the third highest single-day count so far, Maharashtra breached the 3,000 mark to reach 3,202 on Thursday. Mumbai added 177 cases, also its third-highest count for a day, taking the total cases in the city to 2,073. While the state took nearly a month to record its first 1,000 cases, it breached the 2,000 mark in six days after that, and the newest 1,000 cases have been added in just 4 days. In Mumbai, cases have doubled in just six days. On April 13, Maharashtra had 2,334 cases, and on April 10, a month after the first case was reported, Mumbai had 1,008 cases. Health minister Rajesh Tope said the period in which cases have doubled has gone up from two days initially to three days and now it is 5.5. “The more days it takes, the better it is for us,” Tope said.For the second day in a row, the state reported deaths in single digits: 7. Of these, 3 were from Mumbai and the rest from Pune. Maharashtra now accounts for 194 deaths, of which 117 are from Mumbai. In Mumbai, as deaths rose only slightly from two on Wednesday to three, additional municipal commissioner Suresh Kakani said the numbers have given them hope, but it will be early to say the curve has flattened. He said the revised testing strategy, of testing only those who have symptoms, will be implemented from Friday. “These are results of samples of all high-risk contacts tested from containment areas. We have seen a slight dip in cases, but we will not bring our guard down,” he said. He added the new testing strategy comes into force on Friday as a circular was issued only on Thursday evening. Kakani said reorganisation of patients depending on status of their illness has begun. “Our intention was to open up critical beds, many of which are occupied by mild, moderate patients. We have around 1,500 beds in the six dedicated Covid-19 hospitals,” he said. Another civic official said 497 beds are available in dedicated Covid-19 hospitals, but there were issues around ICU beds with ventilators and availability of dialysis. Of three deaths in Mumbai, two were of men who were 60 and one of a 54-year-old. A 60-year-old man admitted at Kasturba Hospital on April 10 had no comorbidities, while the other two, the 54-year-old and the other 60-year-old, had diabetes and hypertension. The case fatality rate of the state on Thursday was 6.05% and that of Mumbai was 5.64%, a dip from the past few days. Tope said the state will be conducting an audit of every death that is recorded. “We have found that in many cases, patients came for treatment late and we didn’t even have 24 hours for their treatment. A similar experience was shared by doctors at Sassoon hospital in Pune,” he said. Tope said Maharashtra had so far carried out nearly 30% of the total tests conducted in the country. So far 56,673 laboratory samples have been tested, of which nearly 30,000 were from Mumbai. A BEST conductor from Goregaon bus depot on Thursday informed his superiors he was “Covid-19 positive” and was admitted to a private hospital in Bhayander. BEST officials have asked him to get himself tested properly and submit the report. “We have not got any test report, so we cannot confirm at this stage,” said an official. Six other conductors, drivers and cash counting staff from the depot who were in contact with him have been quarantined, sources said. In another case, a staffer from the same depot was quarantined after a family member tested positive. The staffer has been sent to another location for 14-day quarantine while test reports are awaited, an official said. Five patients were detected positive in Thane city on Thursday, taking the number there to 106. Three of the five had been kept in isolation at the civic-run Chhatrapati Shivaji Maharaj Hospital. Badlapur witnessed a sudden rise in cases with 8 testing positive. They include four relatives of a Wockhardt hospital employee who recently tested positive and four family members of a policeman family whose wife and daughter recently tested positive. The numbers of patients in Badlapur is now 12, including one death. Two more tested positive in the jurisdiction of Navi Mumbai Municipal Corporation. Both are health workers. Cases registered within NMMC are 54, with 4 deaths. Panvel city police on Thursday registered an offence against a 42-year-old patient admitted to the sub-district hospital after he allegedly deliberately coughed while a doctor was attending to him. The patient was said to have been miffed as he wanted to be treated at MGM hospital in Kamothe instead of the government hospital. Even as the government accounted for four deaths from Pune, an additional death was reported by local officials. All the deaths were at Sassoon hospital, taking the toll to 45 in the Pune metropolitan region. All five had underlying conditions. Pune city also had 60 fresh cases on Thursday. PMR now has 497 cases.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/state-city-top-3000-2000-cases-in-4-6-days/articleshow/75190403.cms||Bhavika Jain
April 17, 2020||Aurangabad||Beed, Nanded too to get Covid-19 testing labs||Aurangabad: A steady rise in the number of Covid-19 cases in Marathwada has spurred the state government to set up testing laboratories at two more places in the region — Ambejogai (Beed district) and Nanded. Aurangabad already has such a facility where tests are being conducted while work on another is under way in Latur. In a letter issued on April 15, the medical education and drugs department of the Maharashtra government informed the Directorate of Medical Research and Education (DMER) director that Covid-19 testing labs have been approved for six government medical colleges across the state, including three in Marathwada. The six medical colleges which have received the nod for setting up Virus Research Diagnostic Laboratories (VRDLs) are Swami Ramananda Teerth Gramin Government Medical College and Hospital, Ambejogai; Shankarrao Chavan Government Medical College and Hospital, Nanded; and the state-run medical colleges at Kolhapur, Baramati, Jalgaon and Gondia. On April 12, state medical education minister Amit Deshmukh had instructed medical education secretary Sanjay Mukherjee to start Covid-19 testing facilities at these six medical colleges besides the Vilasrao Deshmukh Government Medical Science Institute (VDGMSI) in Latur. The work on setting up of VRDL at Latur is under way. Deshmukh had said that the chief minister gave the nod to establish Covid testing facilities at all the state-run medical colleges across Maharashtra. Girish Thakur, the dean of VDGMSI, said the instrument required for the Covid-19 testing laboratory is on the way. “We are ready with our preparations. We can start the lab testing by April 22.” Currently, Latur district is sending swab samples for Covid-19 testing to the Solapur-based government medical college. The Aurangabad GMCH tests throat swabs from Aurangabad, Parbhani, Jalna and Hingoli districts. A total of 28 people have tested positive for Covid-19 in Aurangabad, eight in Latur, four in Osmanabad and one each in Hingoli, Beed, Parbhani and Jalna. With the rising number of cases in Marathwada, it has become necessary to increase the number of testing facilities to prevent community transmission of the contagion. Maharashtra tested 50,882 samples, of which 2,684 tested positive till 10am on Thursday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/beed-nanded-too-to-get-covid-19-testing-labs/articleshow/75190771.cms||Arpita Sharad
April 17, 2020||Chennai||CM relief fund gets Rs 135 crore for Covid fight||Chennai: The Chief Minister’s Public Relief Fund has so far received Rs 134.63 crore towards Covid-19 relief. Between April 7 and 13, the relief fund received Rs 54.9 crore. “The relief fund had received Rs 79.74 crore till April 6 and since then Tamil Nadu Transport employees unions contributed Rs 14.10 crore, Atos Syntel Group and Hyundai contributed Rs 5 crore each, Cholamandalam Investments Rs 3 crore, Chennai SuperKings Rs 1 crore. Several others have contributed to the relief fund too,” said an official from the finance department. Actors Ajith Kumar and Siva Karthikeyan have donated Rs 50 lakh and Rs 25 lakh. “The funds will be used to procure equipment needed to treat Covid-19 patients,” said the official. Meanwhile, companies have been allowed to use their corporate social responsibility (CSR) funds to donate towards the CM relief fund. “The Centre recently cleared doubts of companies, allowing them to use the CSR funds,” said the official.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/cm-relief-fund-gets-rs-135-crore-for-covid-fight/articleshow/75189820.cms||---
April 17, 2020||Dehradun||Three, including couple, die in separate incidents in Roorkee||Roorkee: A couple in their early twenties allegedly committed suicide in Jhabreda near Roorkee on Thursday. The man allegedly hanged himself from the branch of a tree and when information of his death reached home, his wife consumed poison as well, police said. The reason behind the man’s death is still unclear. The deceased have been identified as Rahul Gujjar (22) and his wife Sheetal (19). Both are residents of Iqbalpur in Jahbreda and they got married a year ago. According to Ravindra Shah, in-charge of Jhabreda police station, “Even though the reason behind their deaths are not known yet, but, prima facie, it seems that domestic strife maybe one of the possibilities,” said Shah. Meanwhile in a separate incident, a 45-year-old labourer from Aligarh, who was staying in a quarantine facility at a banquet hall since April 2 in Roorkee, died on Thursday morning. Police said Netrapal from Ramnagar locality had complained of stomachache on Wednesday night, following which health officials had asked him to get admitted in the hospital, but he refused.“In the morning while strolling in the banquet-hall, he suddenly collapsed. It seems he died of cardiac arrest. We have informed his family and sent his body for an autopsy," said Amarjeet Singh, in-charge of Civil Lines police station.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/three-including-couple-die-in-separate-incidents-in-roorkee/articleshow/75188861.cms||Tapan Susheel
April 17, 2020||Nashik||Nashik industries hopeful of resuming ops from April 20||Nashik: Though the Centre has allowed some relaxation in lockdown for industries to resume operations from April 20, some administration officials are of the view that it is unlikely to happen in Nashik as the district falls under Covid-19 red zone. "At this point in time, rural areas of Nashik have low number of positive Covid-19 cases — less than 15. But Malegaon city has 39 positive cases and this puts the entire district in the red zone. We are therefore awaiting the government orders regarding the resuming of operations of industries," a district administration official said. The industrialists, on the other hand, are upbeat as state industry minister Subhash Desai, during a press conference, excluded Nashik from districts where industries are likely to remain shut. "During today’s (Thursday) press briefing Desai clearly mentioned that industries in Mumbai, Navi Mumbai, Kalyan, Dombivali, Thane, Pune, Pimpri Chinchavad and Nagpur will remain shut. Nashik’s name was not mentioned. Hence, we are hopeful that the district administration will receive guidelines from the state government by tomorrow (Friday) morning after which the administration will take necessary steps," Nashik Industries Manufacturer's Association (NIMA) president Shashikant Jadhav said. Jadhav was hopefull industries that have their raw material available locally will have no problem. "The automobile, electrical and electronic industries will continue to suffer for some time at least as their raw materials are supplied from other cities, states and even countries. But Food processing units, Hindusthan Aeronautics Limited and many others are likely to benefit from the same," Jadhav said. He, expressed reservations on starting the transport industry. "Intense inspection at district and state borders will increase the running time of the trucks and unavailability of hotels will also be a major problem for the drivers, besides their lives will also be in danger," Jadhav said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/nashik-industries-hopeful-of-resuming-ops-from-april-20/articleshow/75188885.cms||---
April 17, 2020||Coimbatore||CMCH dean transferred as PG docs raise plaints||Coimbatore: Within a month of the district beginning its battle with Covid-19, the dean of the Coimbatore Medical College Hospital (CMCH) has been transferred. The director of medical education (DME) issued an order on Wednesday, transferring CMCH dean Dr B Ashokan to the office of the director of medical education. He has been replaced with professor of community medicine at CMCH Dr P Kalidas, who will hold the dean’s position as an additional charge.The decision comes in the wake of growing issues raised by the postgraduate doctor students. On Monday, two postgraduate students assigned to the ESI Medical College and Hospital to handle Covid-19 patients tested positive for the virus. Since then, PG doctors put on Covid-19 ward duty raised multiple issues including them not being administered hydroxychloroquine, which has been recommended as a precautionary treatment for all doctors handling Covid-19 patients, and not being given enough facilities to remain quarantined after their shift.The students testing positive also led to the mess staff in the PG hostel not reporting for work for two days claiming that they feared getting infected. Some of the issues raised by the students were the shabby state of the corona ward in CMCH, where the two positive students were initially isolated, inadequate accommodation facilities for PG doctors in ESI, leading to them having to come back to CMCH’s PG hostel thus exposing the place and shortage of protective gear.“The fact that the dean and medical superintendent Dr Sadagopan did not even call our two colleagues and speak a few comforting words or take responsibility for the issues we raised, is extremely demotivating,” said a PG doctor. “With Covid-19 being an unknown disease, we need motivation to risk our lives. But the two officers have not stood by us.” Among all other issues, the hammer seems to have fallen mainly because the two doctors were not administered hydroxychloroquine and were admonished at because they got themselves tested after developing symptoms.Ashokan, who was earlier dean of ESI Medical College, took over as CMCH dean in 2017.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/cmch-dean-transferred-as-pg-docs-raise-plaints/articleshow/75189822.cms||---
April 17, 2020||Dehradun||Two cops suspended for ‘assaulting local bizman’||Bageshwar: The Bageshwar police has suspended one of its sub-inspectors and a constable with immediate effect. These policemen had allegedly assaulted a local businessman of Kapkot and his family members in his house, without any search warrant. Rajendra Prasad, a resident of Kapkot, had accused sub-inspector Akram Ahmed and constable Pawan Kumar that on Monday night they entered his house and beat him and his family members over a "dispute at the businessman's shop". Bageshwar SP Rachita Juyal said that in the initial probe conducted by the police, the allegations against the policemen have been found to be correct and hence they have been suspended.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/two-cops-suspended-for-assaulting-local-bizman/articleshow/75188880.cms||Rohit Joshi
April 17, 2020||Thiruvananthapuram||KSUM comes up with online platform to support startups||Thiruvananthapuram: Kerala Startup Mission (KSUM) has come up with a single online platform for all startup-related information, including funding schemes from across the world, to support startups in the wake of Covid-19 outbreak. The web portal carries a compendium of schemes with KSUM gathering and posting all the details on a single page, including those pertaining to funding projects and the challenges faced by startups due to the global outbreak of Covid-19. KSUM has also brought together all tools, which will help startups to effectively use them while working from home. Major corporates have shared their online tools like video conferencing, work management tools etc, which can be tapped by startups as they are available on the single webpage. This initiative will help more startups to effectively utilize and manage the work-from-home (WFH) mode. The webpage also has essential updates for startups about Covid-19. Startups also can submit their grievances through the state portal, which will be addressed by the respective departments. For more details, visit: https://singlewindow.startupmission.in/ KSUM is the nodal agency for entrepreneurship development and incubation activities in the state.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/thiruvananthapuram/ksum-comes-up-with-online-platform-to-support-startups/articleshow/75187615.cms||---
April 17, 2020||Hyderabad||Stay indoors, KT Rama Rao tells residents||HYDERABAD: Appealing to people to stay indoors during the lockdown, municipal administration minister KT Rama Rao on Thursday inspected the containment clusters falling in Khairatabad, Mallepally and Asif Nagar areas. He enquired residents on distribution of pamphlets about Covid-19 guidelines. The guidelines to be followed by the people residing in containment clusters and phone numbers of the nodal officer concerned are printed in English, Telugu and Urdu. Meanwhile, GHMC officials have been asked to be prepared with manpower and machinery in case more locations are declared as containment zones. The directions were given by Arvind Kumar, principal secretary, MAUD, while reviewing the arrangements.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/stay-indoors-ktr-tells-residents/articleshow/75189828.cms||Nabinder Bommala
April 17, 2020||Ahmedabad||Expect 100 Covid-19 cases a day in Ahmedabad: Vijay Nehra||AHMEDABAD: The number of new Covid-19 cases reported in the city in the last 24 hours has hit 95 and the city will soon see more than 100 cases being reported every day. Municipal Commissioner Vijay Nehra said that with their intensive surveillance and aggressive testing strategy, the number of new cases reported in the city every day will cross 100 in the near future. Nehra also called on citizens to maintain at least a 10-foot distance from others and treat every citizen as a potential Covid-19 case. “We are in a situation where we have to think the next person is Covid-19 positive and can infect you. I appeal to citizens to maintain social distancing and wear masks whenever they go out,” he said. With the 95 cases reported on Thursday, the city’s tally is now 545 cases. Nehra said people should take the situation very seriously and go out only if absolutely necessary. In Behrampura and Danilimda areas which are under curfew, large numbers of women go out to buy milk and vegetables. “I request the citizens not to insist on buying vegetables fresh every day. The situation is grim as the virus is spreading further by the day. Even with no symptoms are being found to be infected,” he said.  Nehra said that the number of new cases will also rise as the AMC has also increased the number of tests being conducted. In a single day on Wednesday, the AMC collected 1,247 samples, the highest daily number so far. In the last 24 hours, the AMC carried out health check-ups in 1.07 lakh houses and screened 4.59 lakh people. The screening was done by 747 AMC teams. With intensive surveillance and aggressive testing the number is going to increase. “Think positive and stay negative,” said Nehra. He explained that one must assume the other person is positive and maintain a distance so that one remains Covid-19 negative.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/expect-100-covid-cases-a-day-nehra/articleshow/75190417.cms||---
April 17, 2020||Aurangabad||Tollfree Covid-19 helpline||To alleviate the mental health concerns emerging out of Covid-19 pandemic, Mpower, which works in mental healthcare, has partnered with the Government of Maharashtra and the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) to launch a toll-free helpline number –1800-120-820050 called ‘BMC-Mpower 1on1’ that will be made available for citizens 24x7. Available free of cost for people across Maharashtra, the helpline comprises experienced and trained mental health counsellors who are clinical psychologists and psychiatrists from Mpower to provide much needed mental healthcare counsel and support. The service is available in Marathi, Hindi and English to address any mental health concerns faced by citizens. Laghu Udyog Bharti seeks relief measures In a memorandum submitted to chief minister Uddhav Thackeray, industry association Laghu Udyog Bharti has sought relief measures for distressed micro and small scale industries. The representatives of Laghu Udyog Bharti has sought relief in power bills, no disconnection of power over outstanding dues, postponement of new proposed power tariff, return of old VAT, distribution of pending grants, extension to payment of rent and business tax, among other things.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/tollfree-covid-19-helpline/articleshow/75190772.cms||---
April 17, 2020||Ahmedabad||Crowds during curfew break rattle authorities||Ahmedabad: The three-hour relaxation of curfew in areas which are worst affected by the Covid-19 pandemic has become a big cause of concern for the authorities, as social distancing guidelines are being violated on a rather large scale. A large number of women have been seen crowding vegetable markets and stores selling essential supplies during the relaxation period. Cops are beginning to question whether lockdown was a better option than curfew. Cops say that if clamping of curfew was a step to enforce social distancing, it is not serving the purpose. To make matters worse, the APMC has decided to start two vegetable markets – one opposite Gita Mandir bus stand and the other at Gujari Bazaar at the riverfront from Friday. These two markets are adjacent to two Covid-19 hotspots Jamalpur and Danilimda and people from these areas are expected to pour into these two markets. A police official at Karanj said that a fairly large number of women venture out to purchase essential supplies during the three-hour relaxation of curfew and in most cases, social distancing norms are flouted openly. “Lockdown was a better option, as we could monitor movement of people through CCTVs, drones and other surveillance methods. With so many women crowding markets during the relaxation period, matters will only become worse in containing the pandemic,” the official said. AMC officials said one option being considered is allowing women to come out of their homes in a staggered manner.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/crowds-during-curfew-break-rattle-authorities/articleshow/75190416.cms||---
April 17, 2020||Nashik||Lack of sanitisation facilities delays unloading of goods||Nashik: Lack of sanitisation facilities for the people and the vehicles coming at the goods shed at the Nashik Road railway station is affecting the offloading of grains from the goods train at the station.The head-load workers or the porters working at the goods shed here have expressed reservation about working given the chances of contracting the coronavirus infection from vehicles that come in the shed from the various areas to pick up the grains.“We have about 400 porters working at the station. The only time we can earn a living now is when a rake comes in with goods to be loaded or unloaded. A goods train had arrived, but we were in two minds about taking up the job because of the lack of health facilities,” said Rambaba Pathare, one of the porter leaders at station.Though the porters are aware that they are among the few who at least have a chance to earn a living in these challenging times, they are still worried about their health. “There are 300-odd migrant workers other than the 300 workers of our organization. We are taking care of them as well. We definitely need a way to make some money, but not by compromising our health,” he added.One rake has 105 wagons that carry 1,250 sacks of 50kg grains each. Every wagon requires a group of 16 people who load from two doors.“There cannot be social distancing in our field. We asked the contractor, the Railways and the district supply office for hand sanitisers and for proper sanitisation of the vehicles. But we have got no help so far,” Pathare said.After much deliberations, a sanitiser shower was set up after which, the work on the unloading the goods began at the Nashik Road station.“The unloading work was delayed for some time on Wednesday because of the porters’ demands. We asked the contractor to provide sanitisers,” sources in the supply office said. Meanwhile, the South Central Railway (SCR) said that all its freight operations were going on a smooth note with full support from the workforce involved in necessary loading and unloading.“Since freight operations are running round-the-clock to maintain supply of essentials, safety of these workers has been given paramount importance. Removable face covers and hand sanitisers are being made available to all staff, including contract workers,” SCR public relations officer Pradeep Kumar said. SCR has loaded 160 freight trains containing grains weighing 4.38 lakh tonne and transported the same to different places by Wednesday. In Kolhapur, two goods trains had arrived over the past two days. Loading and unloading activities went off smoothly. Officials said Kolhapur mostly gets supplies by road transport. (With inputs from Aurangabad and Kolhapur)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/lack-of-sanitisation-facilities-delays-unloading-of-goods/articleshow/75188973.cms||Abhilash Botekar
April 17, 2020||Dehradun||Distressed labourers in metros from U’Khand want state to arrange & subsidise their return||Dehradun: Thousands of migrant labourers from Uttarakhand, stuck in Delhi, Mumbai and elsewhere, want their home state to step in and arrange for buses to take them home. Locked down in a single room rented house, Navin Joshi, who worked as a security guard in a bank in Delhi, has been waiting for his employer to clear his salary dues and the lockdown to end on May 3. “I missed the bus on March 23, but never thought I’d get stuck indefinitely. If the government can operate fights to repatriate foreigners to their home country, then they should be able to arrange for buses to repatriate migrant labourers stuck in big cities,” said Joshi. Ever since all bank branches shut down because of the lockdown, Joshi and others like him have been sitting at home.  “I have not got my salary for March. It’s becoming very difficult to survive. My landlord has not asked for rent this month, which is a big relief,” said Joshi. Brij Mohan Upreti, president of Uttarakhand Lok Manch, an activist group, has set up over 200 groups of migrant labourers with over 3,000 members in Delhi. “Our organisation is providing ration to these migrant labourers, so that food is no worry for them. I guess there are over 15,000 labourers from Uttarakhand stuck in Delhi-NCR alone, who want to return home. How the state governments — Uttarakhand and Delhi — ensure that, is the big question,” said Upreti. At the time lockdown was initiated on March 24, Upretti had managed to arrange three buses to ferry for labourers to Haldwani and Haridwar. “The list of passengers was shared with the state government and all of them were taken to isolation centres and quarantined.” According to a conservative estimate, there are over 20,000 migrant labourers eager to return to the state in Mumbai, which is severely hit by the lockdown. Jayveer Rawat, a cook in a Mumbai hotel, said: “Five of us work in the same hotel. We’re waiting to receive our salaries, but our employer has stopped taking our calls.” Back in Ghansali in Tehri district, Rawat’s family is worried. “The outbreak is spreading fast here in Mumbai, so our families want us back home as soon as possible. The government must do something for us,” said Rawat. Convener of Mumbai-based Kautik Foundation, Kesharsingh Bisht, said. “Our foundation is helping migrant labourers buy rations and essentials. Once we are forwarded the photo and other details of a migrant worker in distress, we pay the shop from where they are buying ration, via mobile wallet,” said Bisht. It is being estimated that up to 55,000 migrant workers will return to Uttarakhand once the lockdown ends. On asked about the state government’s roadmap for their repatriation, state minister Dhan Singh Rawat said, “As of now, they will have to follow lockdown protocol wherever they are staying. How to bring them back to Uttarakhand would be decided later.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/distressed-labourers-in-metros-from-ukhand-want-state-to-arrange-subsidise-their-return/articleshow/75188903.cms||Yogesh Kumar
April 17, 2020||Hyderabad||Minister tells police to intensify lockdown||HYDERABAD: Police will further tighten lockdown in Habeeb Nagar, Asif Nagar, Humayun Nagar, Golconda and Tolichowki, upon direction from minister KT Rama Rao. “Do what you think is necessary to implement lockdown effectively,” the minister told joint commissioner A R Srinivas.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/min-tells-police-to-intensify-lockdown/articleshow/75189833.cms||---
April 17, 2020||Bhopal||Sixth covid death reported in Bhopal||BHOPAL: Another person died due to Covid-19 in the city on Thursday taking the toll due to the viral disease to six. All the six persons died and later tested tested Covid positive. Meanwhile, 29 people tested positive for Covid-19 according to MP government health bulletin, on Thursday. The deceased died in Hamidia Hospital on Wednesday an after his test report confirned him to be Covid positive the body was handed over to the family by the health department and he was cremated as per Covid-19 protocol, said Chief Medical and Health Officer Dr Prabhakar Tiwari. Those who died from COVID-19 were already suffering from other co-morbidities, said an expert. A total of 1,243 samples were sent for investigation on Thursday and report of 711 samples is awaited. Bhopal Municipal Corporation began a special sanitation drive in BMC zone 1 with the testing of a new spray machine. Large scale sanitization of colonies, complexes, slums, streets, streets, streets, houses and other locations are being underaken. Under the campaign Bairagarh, Sanjay Nagar, Bhainsakhedi, Gandhi Nagar and other places were sanitised.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/sixth-covid-death-reported-in-bhopal/articleshow/75189835.cms||---
April 17, 2020||Trichy||You can take back seized vehicle, chargesheet stays||Trichy: Heeding a government order, the city and rural police have begun handing over vehicles seized from curfew violators to their owners on the submission of an undertaking. However, the charge-sheets will be filed in the court and failure to appear in court may land the violators in serious trouble, police said. In Trichy city, the seized vehicles including two-wheelers, cars and autorickshaws were kept at Armed Reserve (AR) police grounds at K K Nagar since the the curfew was imposed on April 24. “We have released around 250 vehicles today. It is a continuous process that the vehicles are being released in phased manner,” city police commissioner V Varadharaju told TOI. As of Thursday, the city police have booked 1,271 cases and arrested 2,943 people. In all, 4,671 two-wheelers, 113 autos and 97 four-wheelers were seized. Vehicle owners should bring original documents such as registration certificate and driving licence and submit photocopies. The undertaking addressed to the inspector of the police station, should read : “The case has been registered against me for roaming outside in violation of the CrPc section 144. My vehicle has been impounded. In the event of my vehicle being handed over to me, I will not repeat my offence of violating the curfew. I am agreeing to be liable for any police action if I am found violating any violation during the curfew. I will hand over the vehicle to the police for any legal proceedings.” The police will mark some details of the case on the vehicle which the owners can take back on being informed by the police. The police filed the cases under sections of IPC, Tamil Nadu Public Health Act, Disaster Management Act, 2005, Epidemic Disease Act and Motor Vehicles Act against the violators. The arrested offenders were released on bail from the police station due to the lockdown. The process of handing over the vehicle commenced in Trichy rural also. SP Zia Ul Haq said 494 vehicles seized on April 24 and 25 were released on Thursday. The rural police have so far arrested 10,274 people and seized 8,455 two wheelers and 90 four-wheelers.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/you-can-take-back-seized-vehicle-chargesheet-stays/articleshow/75189834.cms||---
April 17, 2020||Aurangabad||Pregnant woman tests +ve 2 days after stepson confirmed infection||Aurangabad: Three people, including a pregnant woman, tested positive for Covid-19 on Thursday, taking the total number of active cases to 24 in the city. The 30-year-old pregnant woman, a resident of Mumbai, had come with her family from the state capital to Aurangabad in an ambulance on April 10 for the delivery. The familywent to the woman’s brother’s house in the Baijapura area of the city. On April 13, the woman’s 17-year-old stepson started showing symptoms and was admitted to the district civil hospital. Subsequently, the throat swab samples of all the family members were collected and sent for testing the same day. “The report of the teenage boy arrived on Tuesday, which confirmed his Covid-19 status. The throat swab test report that came on Thursday confirmed that even the pregnant woman had contracted the infection,” said Santosh Naikwade, a paediatrician at the district civil hospital. The doctors at the district civil hospital are working out a plan as the woman is due for delivery in a day or two. “She is expected to deliver either on Thursday evening or Friday,” said Naikwade. Meanwhile, the family’s move of travelling all the way from Mumbai to Aurangabad amid the lockdown has raised questions over the sealing of district boundaries. When asked about the inter-city movement, district collector Uday Choudhari said directives have been issued to allow entry into the district to only those who have an emergency pass. “It is expected that other district administrations are also issuing emergency passes only after screening the patients,” said Chaudhari. In another case, a 65-year-old woman, a resident of Bismillah Colony in the city, tested positive. “The woman already has diabetes, hypertension and a kidney ailment. She is currently undergoing treatment at the Government Medical College and Hospital (GMCH). Her condition is critical,” said Arvind Gaikwad, nodal officer for media interaction at GMCH. She was referred to the GMCH from MGM hospital on April 13. Municipal officer of health Nita Padalkar said the investigation to trace the source of her infection was underway. “The family has stated that she does not have a travel history,” said Padalkar. A 22-year-old man from Kiradpura, a contact of a confirmed case, has also tested positive for Covid-19. He is undergoing treatment at the district civil hospital.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/pregnant-woman-tests-ve-2-days-after-stepson-confirmed-infection/articleshow/75190776.cms||Arpita Sharad
April 17, 2020||Thiruvananthapuram||Kerala: Dialysis unit launched in MCH for Covid-19 patients||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM: A new isolation dialysis unit has been started at Medical College Hospital in Thiruvananthapuram for Covid-19 patients. Five dialysis machines have been set up in this unit. Two dialysis machines were bought utilising Rs 10 lakh from Shashi Tharoor’s MP fund and the other three machines were arranged from SAT Hospital earlier. Medical college principal Dr M K Ajayakumar inaugurated the functioning of the new isolation dialysis unit on Thursday. “Many patients under observation for Covid-19 have been receiving treatment for kidney, heart and lung-related ailments. So, the hospital authorities decided to start a separate isolation dialysis unit for Covid-19 patients. Tharoor allotted Rs 10 lakh for two dialysis machines considering the urgent need for treatment of Covid-19 patients. As soon as the dialysis machines were brought to the hospital, the dialysis unit was arranged by doctors and hospital staff.,” said a statement from hospital. A team led by hospital superintendent Dr M S Sharmad, deputy superintendents Dr Joby John, Dr B S Sunilkumar, Dr Sujatha, Dr Sajeev, staff nurse Rani, dialysis scientific officer Krishnakumar arranged the new dialysis unit.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/thiruvananthapuram/dialysis-unit-launched-inmch-for-covid-19-patients/articleshow/75187633.cms||---
April 17, 2020||Nagpur||Kirti Nagar residents block all roads, isolate themselves||Nagpur: Responding to chief minister Uddhav Thackeray and Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s call for extension of lockdown till May 3 to contain the spread of coronavirus, residents of Kirti Nagar have resorted to novel ways to maintain social distancing. The residents have set up temporary barricades on four roads using branches of thorny bushes to prevent entry of outsiders. “We have also put up boards saying the roads have been closed due to Covid-19, and kept only one road for entry and exit,” said local resident Nitin Tiwari. “The locality, which has 250 families, took the decision after launching a door-to-door signature campaign. We took the decision to keep entire locality of 250 families in self-isolation,” said Tiwari. Earlier, many gated colonies had restricted entry of people in their housing society. The locality is surrounded by Beldar Nagar (east), Savitri Nagar (west), Dighori (north) and a nullah from south direction. “We have forbidden outsiders coming into our locality as we are afraid that outsiders — especially vendors (from nearby minority locality) who come to sell vegetables — may bring the coronavirus infection to Kirti Nagar,” said another woman resident Sushila Mohod. It was essential to quarantine the locality for the well-being of the residents. All the residents were asked to maintain self-isolation for the stipulated period, said residents Sonu Bondre, Atul Kate, Chhaya Bondre, and Sachin Fukat among others. Initially, police personnel from Hudkeshwar police station objected to their move, saying residents cannot block roads for traffic movement. “Earlier, residents blocked all roads leaving one small lane for movement of vehicles. But after discussion, one wide main was kept open for traffic movement,” said Tiwari. Senior police inspector from Hudkeshwar police station said the law doesn’t allow people to block the road. He further pointed out that already lockdown is in place so there is no need for people to venture out and block public roads, which is complete illegal. To a query, Tiwari said that already PM Narendra Modi has extended the lockdown till May 3. Our intention too is similar, to prevent spread of coronavirus pandemic and ask people to stay indoors.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/kirti-nagar-residents-block-all-roads-isolate-themselves/articleshow/75188930.cms||Proshun Chakraborty
April 17, 2020||Coimbatore||Five discharged from hospital among 16 shifted to Puzhal jail||Salem: Sixteen people, including 11 Indonesian nationals, were shifted to Puzhal prison in Chennai on Thursday. Five of them were being treated for Covid-19 at Government Mohan Kumaramangalam Medical College and Hospital here for the last three weeks, and had tested negative before being discharged, officials said.The 11 Indonesians, accompanied by a guide from Chennai, had come to the city on March 11 from New Delhi. They had made stop-overs at a few mosques in the city and were accompanied by four local residents. Officials said out of the 16 people, four Indonesian nationals and the guide from Chennai had tested positive for Covid-19. The five people were kept in isolation wards of the government hospital here. The remaining 12 people were quarantined in a private lodge. Police had registered a case against all 16 people, including 11 Indonesian nationals, for violating visa norms under various IPC sections, apart from sections of the foreigners’ act and the Tamil Nadu public health act 1939. After the doctors from the government hospital certified that all 16 persons had tested negative, police handed them to their Chennai counterparts on Thursday. In Namakkal district, five persons got discharged from the government hospital on Wednesday night after testing negative for Covid-19, officials said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/five-discharged-from-hospital-among-16-shifted-to-puzhal-jail/articleshow/75189830.cms||---
April 17, 2020||Ahmedabad||ATIRA making medium for N99 masks||Ahmedabad: Ahmedabad Textile Industry’s Research Association (ATIRA) has developed a special nano-coated medium that helps filter out any known virus prevalent in the world and can be used in making N-99 masks. While the novel coronavirus is of the size of 5 microns, the nano-coated medium can help filter particulate matter of up to 0.2 microns, according to ATIRA scientists. At present, the filtration medium is supplied to at least four manufacturers of masks and personal protective gear in Ahmedabad. “Amid the lockdown, ATIRA is operating the machines in two shifts to produce the nano-coated medium, which is a material that can filter particles of up to 0.2 microns and therefore, it will be useful for frontline workers and other citizens, amid the ongoing fight against the Covid-19 pandemic. The machine has a capacity of producing some 400 metre of the material over an 8-hour shift on the nano-electro spinning machine,” said R M Sankar, assistant director, ATIRA. “This material is being supplied to manufacturers of PPE and masks. Basically, the nano-coated medium is supposed to be kept between two layers of the mask and it will give adequate protection those who wear it,” he explained further. In the past, masks made using similar medium has been supplied by ATIRA to Ahmedabad city police and to the Ahmedabad Municipal Corporation for traffic police as well as sanitation workers. This was primarily done to protect them from air pollution, particularly, PM2.5 particles. The filtration medium has been tested at the Centre of Excellence of Medical Textiles at South India Textile Research Association (SITRA) in Coimbatore and also at Nelson Laboratory, USA. The medium has been developed jointly by ATIRA and DRDO. ATIRA has so far provided material enough to produce 3.85 lakh N99 masks to the DRDO so far. The production capacity has now been increased from material for 10,000 masks to 15,000 masks on a daily basis, at ATIRA.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/atira-making-medium-for-n99-masks/articleshow/75190415.cms||---
April 17, 2020||Ahmedabad||Lockdown adds to cancer patient’s woes||Ahmedabad: Kaushik Yadav (27) is in a quandary due to the lockdown and coronavirus pandemic. He cannot ensure treatment for his father Ram Prakash Yadav, who is suffering from cancer. He is also unable to take him back to his native place Shikohabad town in western Uttar Pradesh. Yadav had once tried to take his father to UP, but his vehicle was stopped at Ratanpur, and the Rajasthan police sent them back. The police insisted on Ahmedabad district collector’s consent letter for travel. They refused to accept the medical papers as a valid reason to allow the vehicle to pass through. Yadav, who works in a garment factory, had called his father from UP after he was detected with cancer. After he was taken to the Gujarat Cancer Research Institute at the Civil Hospital on March 18, the scenario changed due to the nationwide lockdown. GCRI, which treated Ram Prakash, as an outside patient later refused to admit him. “My father’s suffering increased, but because of coronavirus outbreak, the hospital refused to admit any patient. They refused to conduct surgery also. He was given medicine only, whereas he requires chemotherapy and surgery. I got this opinion from a private doctor, but I cannot afford treatment in any private hospital. It is unbearable for me to see him sitting with blood oozing from his mouth, and I cannot do anything,” Yadav said. He further said that he and his two brothers in Shikohabad decided that their father should be shifted to UP because treatment was not possible in Ahmedabad. “I hired a vehicle and left for Shikohabad, but Rajasthan police did not allow us to enter the state. I did not have discharge card because my father was not admitted in the Civil Hospital at all. I have to arrange for the district collector’s permission letter,” Yadav said and added that he visited the collector office ten days ago, but he did not get any response. “They told me to apply online, but I need assistance in this process. I have not been able to do it yet,” he said further.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/lockdown-adds-to-cancer-patients-woes/articleshow/75190424.cms||---
April 17, 2020||Bhopal||Ayurvedic medicine boosts immunity: Madhya Pradesh CM||BHOPAL: Teams propagating alternative systems of medicine have joined the battle against coronavirus in Madhya Pradesh. Following instructions from chief minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan, ayurvedic doctors are distributing preventive and immunity boosting medicines to the masses. Homoeopathy medicines are also being given in some areas of the state. In Bhopal, the medical officer of Khushi Lal Sharma Government Ayurveda Hospital, along with his subordinate staff, are going to the identified areas and advising people to ways to save themselves from coronavirus. Chouhan had also given instructions to AYUSH to distribute medicines. So far, immunity-boosting medicines have been distributed to millions of people in many districts. Khushi Lal Sharma Government Ayurveda Hospital is providing relief to the residents in Kolar region. Ayurveda medical experts informed TOI that 15 teams of Khushi Lal Sharma Hospital are distributing Ayurvedic medicines free of cost in the identified areas. Each team consists of seven members, who are going door-to-door, explaining to people how to use the medicines. Most people are being given trikatu churna and samsamani vati. CM Chouhan said Ayurvedic medicines should be used more and more to increase immunity. Arrangements for free distribution of homeopathy and Unani medicines along with ayurveda have been made through the AYUSH department, he said, adding, there are many decoctions and medicines in Ayurveda, which are very helpful in increasing the immunity of patients. Chouhan had also mentioned the same in state-wide meetings to review the corona situation.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/ayurvedic-med-boosts-immunity-cm/articleshow/75189836.cms||---
April 17, 2020||Hyderabad||Restrict Ramzan prayers to home: Jamia Nizamia||HYDERABAD: Jamia Nizamia, one of the oldest Islamic seminaries of Hyderabad, issued a fatwa on Taraweeh, saying Muslims across the country, should offer the special prayers during Ramzan from homes. The ulemas at the seminary have also appealed to the members of the community across India to forgo Iftar parties and stay at home. Hyderabad MP Asaduddin Owaisi also appealed to all Muslims across India to follow the advice of Jamia Nizamia. Suggesting that prayer gathering during Ramzan might lead to a further spread of the coronavirus, Firoz Bakht Ahmed, Chancellor of the Maulana Azad National Urdu University (Manuu), Hyderabad, also appealed to Prime Minister Narendra Modi to extend the lockdown till the end of the holy month. “It is for the benefit of all Indians, irrespective of their faith, that I recommend we extend this lockdown. We have to collectively ensure that another Tablighi Jamaat-like incident does not occur again,” Ahmed told TOI. Earlier, Mufti Khaleel Ahmed, the vice-chancellor of the Jamia Nizamia seminary said in the prevailing lockdown all the Muslims should follow the instructions of the government and stay back in their homes. He said that ulemas (scholars) and muftis (Islamic legal experts) of Jamia Nizamia have unanimously decided to appeal to Muslims in India, not to throng mosques for offering Taraweeh prayers. In a letter addressed to PM Narendra Modi, MANUU chancellor said the lockdown should be lifted on May 24. “If it is lifted on May 3, Muslims will start crowding markets, holding Iftar parties and prayer gatherings, giving rise to Covid-19 clusters,” he said, while clarifying that he wasn’t turning it into a religious issue.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/restrict-ramzan-prayers-to-home-jamia-nizamia/articleshow/75189838.cms||---
April 17, 2020||Hyderabad||Nizamabad deputy mayor blocks health workers on duty, booked||HYDERABAD: Nizamabad deputy mayor Mohammad Idris Khan of AIMIM was on Thursday booked for obstructing medical staff from doing their duty during lockdown. The deputy mayor and a corporator’s husband obstructed medical staff at Auto Nagar, a red zone area, while they were trying to move suspected Covid-19 patients to quarantine. Police booked cases against both of them. Nizambad has the second highest number of cases (51) in the state after Hyderabad. The Police Department is going tough on everyone who is preventting health staff from attending to their duties or causing any sort of harm to them while on duty.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/dy-mayor-blocks-health-workers-on-duty-booked/articleshow/75189841.cms||---
April 17, 2020||Dehradun||1.5 lakh cubic metres of timber lying unused in U'khand's forests||Dehradun: In the wake of the Covid-19 lockdown, Uttarakhand Forest Development Corporation (UKFDC) is yet to transport over 1.5 lakh cubic metres of timber from forests to depots, which UKFDC officials said can roughly fill up 10,000-15,000 trucks. The unused timber also poses a great risk to the forests. The forest department has already recorded two deaths due to wildfires in Bageshwar district recently. This season, 15 wildfire incidents so far have gutted around 8.28 hectares of forest cover, causing huge losses. A majority of the timber is lying in Kumaon region, particularly in the forests of Chorgaliya, Haldwani, Khatima and Tanakpur. The UKFDC has now sought permission from the state to transport these logs. Managing director (MD), UKFDC, Monish Mullick, said, “We received permission to move the logs from forests of the districts - Udham Singh Nagar, Nainital, Pauri Garhwal and Haridwar - but with riders, like adequate sanitisation of vehicles, infection-free workers and special stress on mechanical loading rather than manual.” Also, the permission has been mainly sought for plain districts, though forest fires are more rampant in the hills, especially Kumaon. “We sought permission as per the density of loggings available in the forests. Clearance is under process. Though, it will be difficult to move loggings with so many riders to the depot owing to difficult terrain,” Mullick added. According to sources, the transportation process has been affected as the "selling of timbers has been postponed, indefinitely". Forest officials added that forests could have been cleared off from logs, but demand and supply suffered due to the ongoing lockdown. “We have now decided to sell out products through tendering. Bid process also draws a lot of people. So, the entire process of selling timbers has been postponed until May 3,” Mullick said. Meanwhile, cautioning against wildfires, experts like Dr Ajay S Rawat from Nainital said, “We are lucky to receive some rainfall. Else, these unused logs in forests could have caused wild blaze. UKFDC should clear these logs on priority before the mercury starts to rise.” In financial year 2019-20, UKFDC’s target was to make Rs 420 crore and the Corporation fetched Rs 330 crore and paid off its royalty of Rs 222 crore to forest department while, the remaining earning are stuck in the forests - all vulnerable to wildfires.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/1-5-lakh-cubic-metres-of-timber-lying-unused-in-ukhands-forests/articleshow/75188920.cms||Shivani Azad
April 17, 2020||Aurangabad||Women in Beed villages send bhakris for Aurangabad dwellers||AURANGABAD: In a unique initiative, the women in villages around Beed are helping the distressed worker families in the city by donating food to them. The women cook bhakris and rotis and give it to the volunteers who then deliver them to the needy. The agriculture community living in the villages are grappling with multiple issues due to the nationwide lockdown. The farmers are unable to transport their produce to the markets and they are not getting the value for their vegetables, fruits and grain pushing them to losses. However, that has not stopped them from extending their care to the migrant workers, daily wagers, small businessmen and artisans living in cities who have lost their livelihood due to lockdown. Jiyo Zindagi, a group of professionals, with the help of NGO Patel Foundation, have created a citizen-led movement which makes 6,000 meals a day. According to a member of Jiyo Zindagi, each village is requested to cook and give 1,000 rotis or bhakris a day. “Every day, 10 villages are roped in for the initiative thereby collecting 10,000 rotis or bhakris a day,” the member said refusing to be identified stating it is a group initiative. The volunteers spread the word in the villages the previous night. In the morning, the women cook an extra two rotis or bhakris for the cause. Interestingly, they add some side dish or a pick or dry vegetable with 10-hour shelf life. The village then hands over the collected bhakris along with the vegetable to the volunteers. These bhakris are then transported to Beed city check post from where another lorry collects it and takes it to slums or localities where there is a dominant population of worker families. The work is being carried out while ensuring social distancing and with hygeine, a group member said. The initiative is planned to provide breads to the needy families everyday until May 3.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/women-in-beed-villages-send-bhakris-for-city-dwellers/articleshow/75190777.cms||Arpita Sharad
April 17, 2020||Ahmedabad||‘Information on Covid-19 composition is crucial’||When and how did the project start? n Ever since the outbreak, the state department of Science & Technology was active, with encouragement from the CM Vijay Rupani, in helping to fight against Covid-19. We collected the sample from a positive person’s biological sample on April 5 and started its sequencing. We could complete the genome sequencing on April 15. It was continuous work of a small team of 10 scientists. What was the process of sequencing and major findings? n We took the sequencing of Wuhan-1, the first strand, as reference. About 400 labs in the world are currently working on it. We found a total of nine mutations to the Wuhan-1 strand out of which six are reported by other labs across the world. But three are unique to our strand. Our teams are working further to find which proteins of the virus are attributing to its virulence, its origin and other structures. We are taking 100 more samples from Gujarat to further the study. Q: What do the mutations tell us about the virus? n Studies show that in human-to-human transmission, the virus can mutate even twice in 30 days. The rate of mutation is very slow in advanced life forms but when we go to level of micro-organisms, it’s very fast as they try to adapt and survive. The rate and type of mutation depends on hosts and other factors like climate. Q: How do you see the implications of the breakthrough? n We are putting our findings in public domain soon so that other researchers working on it can benefit. Such sequencing is crucial to develop recombinant vaccine and analyse treatment strategy. Sequencing is also a must to narrow down targets for use of novel molecules for treatment from the repository of pharmacists. Computer simulations could test various compounds against the structure to find the optimal treatment mix.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/information-on-covid-19-composition-is-crucial/articleshow/75190425.cms||Parth Shastri
April 17, 2020||Nagpur||Lockdown hits Akola onion growers hard||Nagpur: The nationwide lockdown has hit the farming community hard. Already battered by unseasonal rains and pests attacks, several onion farmers from the Akola district have rushed a letter to chief minister Uddhav Thackeray urging him to buy their produce as they are decaying either on fields or godowns due to lockdown. According to them, they are forced to sell their produce in local markets for one fourth price less than the original cost. That is the reason, the farmers demanded purchase of their produce by the state government so that they could get something out of it, else they will be in deep financial trouble. “We usually get Rs1,000 per quintal price as the retailers purchased from us. But after lockdown, they aren’t getting any means of transportation and even drivers are not ready to accompany them. Now, we’re forced to sell it at a pittance in local markets, but even that is in very limited quantity,” aggrieved farmer Vilas Tathod told TOI. The onion growers from villages of Talegaon Wadner, Babulgaon, Wangargaon, Daula and Nimbhora, coming under Telhara town of Akola, have also written to state agriculture minister Dadadji Bhuse for helping them out in this unprecedented crisis. Bhuse told TOI that the government had talked to the Centre to help cotton farmers from across the state. “We demanded the union government to allow us to distribute onions across the country through railway. We’ve also planned to directly sell the onion in small bags of 2.5 kgs or less to customers so that they could fetch decent price for it,” he said. “Though he had assured us of help, no response came from him for the last many days. Since the daily consumption rate has come down, the demand for onions has also dropped significantly. Even hotels, eateries and restaurants are closed, thus adding to our woes. We will again be forced to take new loans either from banks or moneylenders,” another farmer said. The onion is grown in 10-15 villages in Akola and the area is known as onion belt spread over 1,500 acres. At start of March, the farmers had kept the stock of onion ready, but suddenly after lockdown, there were no takers for their produce. “If you visit our village, you will see heaps of onions lying on fields. Some of the produce is also decaying at godowns,” the farmers rued.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/lockdown-hits-akola-onion-growers-hard/articleshow/75188977.cms||Vaibhav Ganjapure
April 17, 2020||Jaipur||Rajasthan: Papla Gurjar aide nabbed by cops sporting PPE kits||JAIPUR: The PPE kits worn by doctors to prevent coronavirus infection are now proving to be a boon for police in nabbing absconding criminals. Bhiwadi police on Thursday succeeded in nabbing Jogendra Singh, an accomplice of absconding gangster Papla Gurjar while wearing PPE kit. Police received information that Jogendra was visiting his native village Durbaripur and they sent some police officials wearing PPE kits for screening. Bhiwadi police official Amandeep Singh said a case was registered in Mundavar police station in 2019. “It was stated that arrested criminals Narendra, Akash Yadav and Dinesh Gurjar, residents of Khairoli in Haryana, revealed during investigation that they along with Papla Gurjar, had planned to murder Mohanpur resident and gangster Chiku. Jogendra was also involved in the planning,” Singh said. After this, a strategy was made to break the network of Papla and the activities of the main accused Jogendra were constantly monitored. Jogendra had recently come to his village from Mumbai via flight. As per the information received, a plan was made to apprehend Jogendra by the team in-charge sub-inspector Sunil Kumar. ASI Jaswant Singh wore a PPE kit, disguised as a doctor and was sent to Jogendra’s house on the pretext of screening him as he had arrived from Mumbai. Constables Yogesh and Sunil were sent as members of the doctor’s team and the rest of the team stayed at a distance from his house. However, before the police team reached Jogendra’s house, he was found exercising at some distance from the house and was detained by the team. The SP said Jogendra first met Papla a few years ago at a gym in Gurgaon. From there, the two had become close friends. Papla went ahead in the world of crime and Jogendra tried his luck in film industry in Mumbai. After the Behror incident, Papla approached Jogendra and asked for some financial help. Jogendra gave him three gold rings and two gold chains, which were his wedding gifts. When Papla made a plan to kill gangster Chiku, Jogendra joined to help his friend Papla.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/papla-aide-nabbed-by-cops-sporting-ppe-kits/articleshow/75189847.cms||---
April 17, 2020||Hyderabad||Three booked for spitting on road in Hyderabad||HYDERABAD: Three persons were booked by Rachakonda cops on Thursday for spitting on the road. One of the offenders was identified as Mohd Ghousuddin, a resident of Old Malkapet. He was caught by cops on check post duty at Vishal Mart at around 10.20 am. In the Vanasthalipuram area, Rahul Pandey (36), private employee from Sachivalaya Nagar Colony, was caught near his house by cops while patrolling. In Keesara, D. Sravan (24) private employee from Ramapally, was caught by cops while patrolling. The accused were booked under relevant sections of the IPC.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/three-booked-for-spitting-on-road/articleshow/75189845.cms||---
April 17, 2020||Bengaluru||Community spread in K’taka: Don’t jump to conclusions say taskforce doc||On a day when the state recorded a huge spike in cases – 36 – experts were cautious in suggesting transmission had reached the community stage saying it would be better to wait for a couple of days before making definite conclusions. The health and family welfare department has upped surveillance measures in Vijayapura and Belagavi districts, where the most number of cases were reported on Thursday. “The sudden spike in numbers suggests that it could the beginning of community spread in Karnataka, but we have to wait for another 2-3 days to draw conclusions,” Dr CN Manjunath, member of Covid-19 taskforce and nodal officer for lab facilities and testing, told TOI. However, Dr Ananth Bhan, adjunct professor and researcher in bioethics at Yenepoya deemed to be University, Mangaluru, said there is no point in fighting over terminologies. “There is certainly community spread in Indian, probably not in all states. It is wise to accept and acknowledge it,” said Bhan. However, S Suresh Kumar, state’s Covid-19 spokesperson, ruled out community spread. “We haven’t yet reached that stage,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/community-spread-in-ktaka-dont-jump-to-conclusions-say-taskforce-doc/articleshow/75189392.cms||Sunitha Rao R
April 17, 2020||Ahmedabad||Sola Civil Hospital gets nod for corona tests||Ahmedabad: State health department on Thursday said that the permission for Sola civil hospital to carry out Covid-19 tests has arrived. Jayanti Ravi, principal secretary (health & family welfare), said that they are hopeful of getting the rapid antibody testing (RAT) kits in a couple of days. The tests will be used to survey a large population quickly to identify potential positive cases. The state health department has earlier mentioned that they are ramping up the test capacity by group testing of five samples in a single test tube for quicker results for a large population. In past three days alone, Gujarat has conducted 6,652 tests. Currently, the positive cases rate is 4.44% of the total tests conducted. Out of 20,902 cumulative tests so far, Ahmedabad led the tally with 7,951 tests, followed by 4,763 in Surat, 1,347 in Vadodara and 1,117 in Bhavnagar. All other districts have recorded less than 1,000 tests. Ravi said they have expanded the scope of testing in districts from where no cases have been registered so far. Since the beginning of April, 14 districts of Gujarat have recorded their first Covid-19 positive cases. Now only nine districts have zero Covid-19 status. Some of these cases were identified due to random tests and the symptoms associated with Covid-19 identified by the treating doctors.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/sola-civil-hospital-gets-nod-for-corona-tests/articleshow/75190427.cms||---
April 17, 2020||Hyderabad||Doctor couple from Sanath Nagar donates essentials to migrants||HYDERABAD: A doctor couple from Sanath Nagar has been distributing essentials to migrant workers stranded in Telangana and Andhra Pradesh after the lockdown was announced. They have also been supplying masks and sanitisers to workers fighting on the frontline to curb the spread of coronavirus. Geetha Yeruva and Chitta Tom, famous for performing free cleft palate surgeries for over a decade, are also working to create awareness about keeping safe during the Covid-19 crisis. Tom, who started the Foundation for Children for cleft palate surgeries along with his wife said, “Migrant workers are the worst hit and they don’t have food. We started distributing care packages with rice, dhal, vegetables, cooking oil, pickles and variety of masala powders. Around 700 families were taken care of. We are going to help 3000 more families in Shadnagar from Monday. The couple has constructed a new Seva Ashram near Shadnagar to serve 200 elderly and psychically challenged people. They have also donated 10,000 masks and 2,000 sanitizes to the police and revenue officials. Humanitarian work is not new to the couple as they were also active during the Hudhud cyclone in Andhra Pradesh and the Tsunami in Tamil Nadu.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/doc-couple-donates-essentials-to-migrants/articleshow/75189851.cms||U Sudhakar Reddy
April 17, 2020||Aurangabad||Landlords in Hingoli ordered not to collect rent fron TN migrants||Aurangabad: The Hingoli district administration has ordered a group of 25 landlords to not collect house rent for the month of April from migrant workers, hailing from Tamil Nadu, as they are unable to make the payment due to the Covid-19 outbreak. The action, which has offered relief to around 700 individuals from the southern state, has been taken under the Disaster Management Act, 2005. Hingoli district collector Ruchesh Jaivanshi on Thursday said that the ministry of home affairs has already issued directives aimed at offering relief to migrant workers from paying rent for one month due to the pandemic. "A large group of people from Tamil Nadu is living in Hingoli and they approached us seeking relief from paying house rent for the month of April. They also claimed that their landlords were insisting to pay the rent despite knowing that they do not have money," he said. "All affected people from Tamil Nadu were employed with a private marketing company and they were offered the desired relief owing to their unemployment," he added. The district administration has also asked the landlords to refrain from harassing the migrant population, especially workers, living in rented homes. The migrant workers have also been asked to raise genuine issues being faced by them with the administration. "The landlords violating the norms and asking the workers to pay the rent will be subjected to criminal action. We will give a time of 24-hours to the landlords to submit their version in response to the complaints related to the recovery of rent," the collector said. "Action will be taken under the Disaster Management Act, 2005, Epidemic Act, 1897 and section 188 (disobedience to order duly promulgated by public servant) of Indian Penal Code," he added. Senior economist HM Desarda said underprivileged people, including migrants, staying in rented facilities must not face harassment for recovery of the monthly rent. "While several landlords have already shown a compassionate approach toward the tenants not in position to pay the monthly rent, those who are insisting it must be subjected to action. The lockdown has led to unemployment among many disadvantaged groups, who need helping hand on all possible fronts," he said. Applauding the action taken by Hingoli administration, Desarda said other districts must also promptly act on complaints related to the recovery of rent. Hingoli district has reported only one positive patient of Covid-19 till Thursday evening.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/landlords-in-hingoli-ordered-not-to-collect-rent-fron-tn-migrants/articleshow/75190780.cms||---
April 17, 2020||Hyderabad||Governor’s PSO sews 3,000 masks to protect poor, says it’s call of duty||HYDERABAD: A constable by profession, 30-year-old B Amareshwari has embarked on stitching masks, during her free time, to overcome the shortage of this most wanted piece of protection. What is fascinating about Amareshwari’s effort is that she learnt stitching from her grandmother just after the lockdown was clamped. “I can only stitch masks. This is not a hobby. I thought people are in need and this is the best I can do. So I learnt it and now I can stitch a few in 30 minutes,” she said. Amareshwari, who is a personal security officer for Telangana Governor Dr Tamilisai Soundararajan, had recently distributed over 3000 masks to colleagues and people near her colony. “This is my contribution, to do something for the people in need in these difficult times. I have seen Governor madam distributing free food for the people, and giving her one month’s salary to the CM relief fund to combat Covid-19. I am trying to do whatever I can in my own little way,” Amareshwari said. Amareshwari, who has been working with the police department for over a decade now, wants to stitch at least 10,000 more masks. “I stay with my parents and grandparents. They have been very supportive. My duty starts at 6 am and goes on till late in the nights on alternate days. I spend most of my free time stitching,” she added. The woman constable visited some of the houses near her locality and took note of how many members in a family need masks. She has been preparing three masks for each person and it will be given free of cost. “The shops are closed but one of my close friend, who owns a shop, has been personally supplying me material for stitching the masks. These are washable masks,” she added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/guvs-pso-sews-3000-masks-to-protect-poor-says-its-call-of-duty/articleshow/75189866.cms||Aditi Mallick
April 17, 2020||Nashik||2 more +ve, 12 Malegaon contacts quarantined||Nashik: Two more individuals have tested positive for Covid-19 even as the throat swabs of 65 suspected patients, including the high-risk contacts of patients, have negative on Thursday, Nashik collector Suraj Mandhare said. “A 63-yr-old woman from Sanjeev Nagar, in Satpur-Ambad link road, and a 64-year-old man from Malegaon, who was admitted to a private hospital for angioplasty, have tested positive,” he said. The throat swab samples of both the patients were sent to Armed Forces Medical College in Pune for testing. According to officials, the man from Malegaon was admitted for angioplasty in a private hospital where already several beds have been reserved for Covid-19 treatment. Doctors said all precautions to ensure that none of the other patients and doctors come in contact with the Covid-19 infected patient without proper precautions. According to the officials, the woman, whose sons had come from Mumbai and Pune a few days back, was also admitted to a private hospital near the Ambad industrial area for three days. On April 13, the patient was shifted to the quarantine facility and her swab sample was taken. The NMC teams have rushed to the hospital and sanitised it, quarantined the staff, including the doctors and nurses. Some have been institutionally quarantined while others have been home quarantined. The patient’s house has also been sanitised and six members of her family have been quarantined. The NMC has sealed the area. Meanwhile, 12 relatives of the patients from Malegaon (including four found positive on Wednesday) have been quarantined. Pankaj Ashiya, assistant collector and chief coordinator of the Emergency Operations Centre, has warned people of action if the health screeners were not allowed to do their work.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/2-more-ve-12-malegaon-contacts-quarantined/articleshow/75188987.cms||---
April 17, 2020||Ahmedabad||28 govt employees test positive||Ahmedabad: Jayanti Ravi, principal secretary (health and family welfare), on Thursday revealed that so far, 28 government employees have contracted Covid-19 infection. “They are the frontline workers such as anganwadi worker, assistant municipal commissioner, AMTS driver and constable engaged in the war against Covid-19,” she said. She added that all the positive patients were being given the best possible treatment and that their condition was stable. With more civic staff members involved with Covid-19 duties testing positive, municipal authorities are drawing up a detailed plan for their protection. On Thursday municipal commissioner Vijay Nehra said that at LG hospital one assistant professor, two resident doctors and a staff nurse tested Covid-19 positive. In another case an assistant municipal commissioner for north-west zone who handled civic affairs for Chandlodia and Ghatlodiya wards tested positive. Elsewhere, a postman in Sarkhej area who used to deliver letters and money orders too tested positive. “Yesterday after screening 1,500 sanitation workers, one municipal sanitation worker tested positive,” said an official from the solid waste management department of Ahmedabad Municipal Corporation. Late on Thursday night, two doctors at Sola Civil Hospital also tested positive. “We are ensuring that all get protective gear,” said an official.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/28-govt-employees-test-positive/articleshow/75190431.cms||---
April 17, 2020||Jaipur||Rajasthan: Men in khaki go bald to avoid coronavirus, save time||KOTA: Over 65 policemen of various police stations of Kota and Jhalawar districts — the red zones for coronavirus infection in Hadauti with 86 and 17 positive cases respectively — have shaved their heads and gone bald to protect themselves from the pandemic and to save the time spent on washing and tending to one’s hair. Sunel police station of Jhalawar district tops the list as 39 out of the 40 policemen of the police station including SHO Dharmaram have shaved their heads and gone bald to save time for their daily 12-hour hectic duty. As many as 15 cops in Pedawa police station, the hotspot in Jhalawar district, where 17 persons have tested positive so far, have joined the bald-headed army in the fight against Covid-19, followed by six cops each in Jhalawar Sadar and Gumanpura police stations of Kota city. The cops say that they couldn’t wash or keep their hair clean regularly due to the tough duty hours and since they visited potential virus hotspots daily, touching one’s hair repeatedly could lead to spreading the infection. They cite a video message by a doctor on social media that says the coronavirus stays on hair for nearly 3-4 hours and while taking bath, it rolls down into the eyes and over other parts of the body, so the cops decided to shave their heads, circle in-charge, Pedawa police station Mahesh Singh said, who has himself joined the bald brigade. ‘I as well as five other cops of the police station, have gone bald as we believe it would help guard against the coronavirus infection on duty and would free us from the task of washing and disinfecting hair, that may have gotten infected due to being exposed in open on long duty hours,” said Manoj Singh Sikarwar, circle in-charge, Gumanpura police station of Kota city, who has also shaved his head. Also, unavailability of the services of barbers was cited as another reason for the move by the cops. Police is a disciplinary force that does not allow long and unruly hair and also due to the fear of spread of infection amid long duty hours, the decision was taken, said circle in-charge, Jhalawar Sadar police station Sanjay Meena, who has also chosen to go bald along with seven other cops of his police station. “There is no scientific data supporting transmission of virus through hair and that a shaved head can secure one from infection. However, common sense recommends shaved head saves time,” Dr Manoj Saluja, associate professor, medicine, Kota Medical College said and added that coronavirus survives longer on clean and smooth surfaces than the rough ones and its survival has nothing to do with hair.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/cops-go-bald-to-avoid-virus-save-time-for-duty/articleshow/75189852.cms||---
April 17, 2020||Nagpur||Ab hum apna gaon kabhi nahi chhodenge: Rajasthan migrants stuck in Nagpur||Nagpur: As soon as you enter their shelter home, they surround you with just one request, “Sir, please allow us to go home”. Disturbed over the extension in nationwide lockdown and harassment faced due to what they term as “forcible detention”, 50 aggrieved migrants from Rajasthan have vowed never to leave their native place in search of greener pastures. All of these panic stricken labourers were working in Telangana at a factory. After the lockdown was announced, they started walking towards their destination — villages in Nagaur district — before being detained at the city’s borders. “With all this nightmarish experience in last 20 days, we’ve decided not to venture out of our native places for jobs ever. We will manage in whatever we can at our villages, but don’t want to undergo this dreaded experience again. We can’t believe that we’re being harassed and mistreated in our own country,” an upset Om Prakash says. After the nationwide lockdown was announced on March 25, about 100 labourers from Rajasthan, including these 50 had started walking towards their homes in absence of any transport. These 50 along with one more labourer from Madhya Pradesh were detained near the city’s border and put at shelter home at Agrasen Bhavan from March 29. Their remaining colleagues managed to sneak past the security and reached Rajasthan in next three to four days. “We’re so fed up that we will get mentally ill if we can’t meet our family members. We’ve even told the officials that we’re ready to bear the expenses of our train/bus travel to Nagaur, but no one is paying heed to our appeals. We don’t have any money left currently as contractor failed to pay us, but we will owe money from anyone from our village to return to the officials,” another aggrieved migrant Sukharam says. All of these 50 migrants protested against what they termed as their “illegal detention” at Agrasen Bhavan. The authorities then shifted them to Parmatma Ek Sevak Society Bhavan at Wardhaman Nagar. “More than us, our families need us there in this moment of crisis. Their condition is worst as the government’s help is not reaching there in remote places. Our parents, wife, children are extremely worried over our whereabouts and want us to get back to home immediately,” Shakti Singh says. All these 50 migrants were tested multiple times by the authorities from the Nagpur Municipal Corporation (NMC) and were found to be fit. “When we all are found to be fit, we don’t know on why we’re kept here for no reason. Neither the Rajasthan, nor central or Maharashtra governments are helping us out. We’ve pleaded to every authority and health officials who visit here regularly. But all of them have same answer to give, we need to stay here till lockdown is lifted. No one cares for the poor,” said aggrieved Upendra Kumar.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/ab-hum-apna-gaon-kabhi-nahi-chhodenge-rajasthan-migrants-stuck-in-nagpur/articleshow/75189007.cms||Vaibhav Ganjapure
April 17, 2020||Jodhpur||Rajasthan: Ban on transportation of mineral quashed||JODHPUR: A division bench of the high court on Thursday quashed the ban by the state government on interstate transportation of the Felspar mineral in the form of chips, grains and gitti. Terming the decision of the state government banning the transportation out of state unconstitutional, the division bench comprising Justice Vineet Kumar Mathur and Justice Sanget Lodha said the state government was not empowered to put restrictions on transportation of minerals outside the state. A number of petitions had been filed in the high court challenging this decision of the state government, by which the government first restricted the transportation of mineral Felspar in lumps out of state vide a notification dated October 5, 2018 for a period of 3 years and then the transportation of minerals in the forms of chips, grains andgitti wide a notification dated March 10 last year for a period up to October 4, 2021. Petitioners’ counsel senior advocate P P Choudahry said this was done by the government in the name of protection of domestic industries and in public interest. “The state government cannot ban the transportation of legally excavated Felspar mineral in form of grains, chips and gitti while allowing only powder form”, Choudhary argued. He further said the state could not prohibit transportation of minerals across state borders, which has been excavated legally with the permission of the state government. “We also argued that such ban of the movement/transportation outside the state was unconstitutional and in violation of the freedom of interstate trade and commerce,” said Ramit Mehta, assisting in the arguments. Hearing the arguments, the court ruled, “The impugned notification issued by the state government putting restriction on the transportation of the mineral Felspar in lumps or in the form of grains, chips and Igitti, so as to protect the domestic industries and in public interest, are violative of the provisions of part XIII of the constitution and deserved to be quashed”.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jodhpur/rajasthan-ban-on-transportation-of-mineral-quashed/articleshow/75189861.cms||---
April 17, 2020||Hyderabad||Telangana state cabinet to meet on April 19||HYDERABAD: The Telangana cabinet will meet on April 19 at 2.30 pm to take stock of the lockdown situation in the state and likely exemptions to be given for various sectors. The Centre has announced that certain sectors could be exempted from lockdown norms from April 20. The Chief Minister’s Office, in an official release, said the cabinet would discuss the present situation in every district and containment cluster. The Centre has also announced exemptions to certain sectors from April 20, while continuing the lockdown till May 3.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/state-cabinet-to-meet-on-april-19/articleshow/75189869.cms||---
April 17, 2020||Aurangabad||Mercury level hovers above 40 degree Celsius mark||Aurangabad: The maximum temperature in the city has been hovering over 40 degrees Celsius mark, increasing the intensity of heat further during the ongoing summer heat. Aurangabad recorded a maximum temperature of 40.8 degrees Celsius and a minimum of 22.7 degrees Celsius on Thursday. The maximum temperature was above the normal range by two units while the minimum was in keeping the normal, India Meteorological Department (IMD) data shows. A few other major cities from Marathwada have recorded temperature higher than Aurangabad. As per official data, Parbhani and Beed registered a maximum of 41.8 and 41.6 degrees Celsius respectively. The Met department has predicted a steady temperature range in the city and the region as a whole for the next 48 hours. While many people confined to their homes have been indirectly protected from the scorching summer heat, personnel of law enforcement agencies who are on the streets during the lockdown are at the receiving end of the rising mercury level. Assistant Commissioner of Police (Crime) Nagnath Kode said that around 3,300 police personnel and more than 300 officials have been on bandobast duty to contain the outbreak of Covid-19. “The rise in mercury level has been palpable. The increased temperature poses the risk of dehydration or heat-stroke among staff of law enforcement agencies and therefore increase in intake of water and other liquids is advised,” he said. State power utility officials said the rise in mercury level is directly linked with enhanced electricity consumption. “There is already a surge in the power consumption among residential consumers during the period of lockdown and it will go further due to the rise in mercury level. The necessary load has been anticipated already for ensuring logistic arrangements,” a senior state power utility official said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/mercury-level-hovers-above-40-degree-celsius-mark/articleshow/75190783.cms||---
April 17, 2020||Bhopal||BMHRC opens, but its doors still shut for gas victims||BHOPAL: Barred for three weeks from the hospital set up exclusively for them, Bhopal gas tragedy victims were turned away from BMHRC on Thursday – the day it officially reopened after being de-reserved as a Covid-only hospital. The BMHRC management said they need a day or two as they have to work out a protocol afresh for gas victims. The OPD remained shut on Thursday despite an order by BMHRC director Dr Prabha Desikan on April 15 that all healthcare services, which were suspended after the hospital was taken over by the state government as a Covid-19 centre on March 23, would resume with immediate effect. Some gas victims rushed to the hospital following media reports that it would resume medical care from Thursday, only to be disappointed. “After I received complaints from two-three patients, who were asked to return, I tried to talk to Dr Desikan, but she was busy in a meeting,” said Purnendu Shukla, a member of the Supreme Court monitoring committee, set up for supervision of gas relief hospitals. Desikan hadn’t responded to calls from TOI till the time of going to press. Neither did hospital superintendent Dr Anurag Yadav or public relations chief, Mazharullah. Hospital sources, however, said that a fresh protocol was being worked out for treatment of patients at the hospital and Dr Desikan held a meeting with senior doctors of BMHRC in this regard on Thursday. They said the OPD registration counter was shifted to unit 7 after the hospital was declared a covid-only centre, and bringing back all the equipment would take at least a couple of days. On Tuesday, a few patients were seen in the casualty ward but some others were asked to go back, sources said. Dialysis of around 30 kidney patients registered with the hospital is expected to start on Monday as the hospital doesn’t have certain injections and other resources for this, they said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/bmhrc-opens-but-its-doors-still-shut-for-gas-victims/articleshow/75189018.cms||---
April 17, 2020||Jaipur||Abandoned labourers in Rajasthan reach border posts for food, water||JAISALMER: After the Prime Minister extended the lockdown till May 3, a large number of labourers who had come to the canal area of Jaisalmer for harvesting, were forced to leave by the field owners as their works got over. These labourers left for their homes on foot, but many of them have become a big problem for the BSF deployed at the international border. On Thursday, 51 labourers reached a border outpost of 119th battalion of BSF in search of food and water. BSF jawans and officers, sympathizing with these labourers, offered food and asked them to leave. But more labourers are reaching the international border, which is a cause of worry for the BSF. These labourers were engaged in farm works at the agriculture fields situated 4-5km from the international border. If even single labourer is carrying the virus, it could pose a grave threat to the BSF and to the security system, said an official. These labourers are also stopping BSF vehicles and asking for food and water. BSF Rajasthan frontier DIG M S Rathore said jawans deployed at the border outposts have been directed that if any labourer comes in search of food and water then he should be offered and must be asked to leave. Jaisalmer district collector Namit Mehta said he has directed the officers to bring such labourers to the camp. He has tried to persuade labourers in every possible manner to stay here till the lockdown is opened. Over 8,000 labourers are housed at the government camps and are being provided food and water. After the lockdown was extended, labourers have lost their patience. Earlier, the administration had asked these labourers to stay till April 14, but with the extension of lockdown these labourers have started walking towards their homes. The agriculture fields in Mohangarh and Nachna areas are situated just 4-5km from the international border. These labourers were sitting in the fields due to the lockdown, but with extension, the field owners asked them to leave and the labourers started reaching the Indo-Pak border in search of food and water. Source said around two days ago, 119 BSF provided food packets to 250 labourers in Mohangarh canal area. All these labourers are living in open sky.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/abandoned-labourers-reach-bsf-border-posts-for-food-water/articleshow/75189874.cms||---
April 17, 2020||Trichy||Railway circular hints at workshop resuming ops; impractical, say staff||Trichy: As the Union government has issued fresh guidelines allowing several services and industries to operate after April 20, public sector units under the railways are likely to resume work next week. However, since Trichy is one of the hotspots in the state, it is uncertain whether the workshop would be allowed to resume work.Since more than 1,000 employees of Ponmalai railway workshop come from Trichy and surrounding districts, they have raised apprehensions on how to reach the workplace without public transport. They have appealed the railway authorities to operate special trains to ferry them to the factory. A circular sent, after the lockdown was extended to May 3, to the chief works managers of railway workshops across Southern Railway, advises production units to remain closed up to April 19. The circular has raised speculations that workshops may resume work from April 20 onwards. “Around 4,000 workers are employed at the Ponmalai workshop. Of them, around 1,000 to 1,200 workers hail from Trichy as well as from surrounding areas like Manapparai and neighbouring districts such as Karur, Thanjavur, Ariyalur, Lalgudi and Karaikudi,” said deputy general secretary of Dakshin Railway Employees Union (DREU) D Manoharan.“If they have to report for duty at Ponmalai workshop, transportation is the main issue. Since the state government has decided to extend lockdown till April 30, workers cannot use public transportation. So, the railway could consider operating special trains for employees,” he said. Ponmalai workshop chief works manager Shyamadhar Ram told TOI that the union government was very strict on easing business in Covid-19 hotspots. “Since Trichy has been coming under the list of hotspots in the state, any decision will have to be taken by the board. It would be decided whether Ponmalai workshop would resume its work on time or not,” he said. When asked about operating a special train for workers, he said, “When the entire train operations have been suspended across the country, it is not possible. However, we have written to the board explaining everything. A final decision should be taken by the board.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/railway-circular-hints-at-workshop-resuming-ops-impractical-say-staff/articleshow/75189872.cms||D Vincent Arockiaraj
April 17, 2020||Nashik||PSI meets her 2-year-old daughter only on weekly-offs, is scared of infecting her||Nashik: Police sub-inspector Ashwini Tile, posted at the Trimbakeshwar police station (rural), has been avoiding going to her house too often ever since the lockdown came into force. The reason: The officer is scared that her two-year-old daughter may catch the coronavirus infection if at all she is a carrier.The outbreak of coronavirus pandemic has come as a huge challenge not only for the medical fraternity, but also police personnel. Tile is one such cop. “I had never left my daughter, Saisha, alone for such long periods. However, due to the outbreak of Covid-19, I avoid going home too often.”The PSI said that Saisha is a premature baby and doctors had said that she is susceptible to infection until she turns eight. “The coronavirus is contagious. I can’t take a risk with my daughter.” Saisha spends most of her time with her grandparents and has got somewhat used to staying away from her mother. “My in-laws are supportive of my job. They let me work for long hours in difficult situations and take care of Saisha. But my daughter is very young and she needs me,” says the officer.Tile does night duty at far away checkpoints on alternate weeks since the lockdown has started. She goes to her home in the Nashik Road area only on Saturdays which is her weekly-off. “When I go home on Saturdays, Saisha doesn’t stop talking. She keeps following me all the time. It’s sad that she doesn’t like speaking over the phone,” said Tile.Tile’s husband is a trainer in the police academy who has suffered a fracture on the right hand. “He has to manage with one hand with a small child at home.”Tile’s working hours are tough — from 8am to 8pm when she is on day duty and 8pm to 8am when on night duty. “I stay alert for 12 hours with my team. We have to be at the checkpost, which is about 10km away from the Trimbakeshwar police station. It is a forest area at Amboli Tea Point towards Palghar. My team and I have to stay alert,” she added.Superintendent of police Arti Singh said, “PSI Tile is one of the sincere and hardworking team memberse. She is focused on her job and is dedicated while on duty.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/psi-meets-her-2-year-old-daughter-only-on-weekly-offs-is-scared-of-infecting-her/articleshow/75189032.cms||pragya jain
April 17, 2020||Aurangabad||Power cut on banks of Vishnupuri dam to check water theft||Aurangabad: In a stern measure aimed at preventing water theft from reservoirs during the summer season, the state power utility upon the request of the Water Resources Department (WRD) has imposed a 15-day power cut in areas located on the bank of Vishnpuri major irrigation project in Nanded district. The reservoir, which supplies drinking water to Nanded and other areas, is presently left with only around 1 TMC water in live storage. It has storage capacity of around 2.9 TMC. “Similar to other key reservoirs, Vishnupuri major irrigation project also witnesses illegal lifting of water by farmers among others. The problem gets aggravated during the summer when the farming community cultivating fields adjacent to the dam tends steal water for nourishing crops. Either side of the dam has the presence of illegal water-pumps of farmers and the only way to prevent the stealing is snapping power supply in the areas,” a senior WRD official said. The official release issued by Nanded district administration has also mentioned the presence of unauthorised water pumps on banks of Vishnupuri dam which was holding around 32% live storage by April 10. “The power supply of feeders supplying electricity to agricultural pumps operating on banks of Vishnupuri dam has been cut for a period of fortnight to put a check on the excess lifting of water. The reservoir needs to have sufficient water storage so that it can supply water to Nanded city,” an official release said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/power-cut-on-banks-of-vishnupuri-dam-to-check-water-theft/articleshow/75190786.cms||---
April 17, 2020||Hyderabad||Don’t pester for fee or sack faculty, colleges told||HYDERABAD: The All India Council for Technical Education (AICTE) has warned educational institutions not to insist on fee from students and sack faculty amidst the lockdown, which will be in place till May 3 due to the coronavirus pandemic. The regulatory body has also warned of strict action against colleges failing to comply with its lockdown guidelines. “It has come to knowledge of AICTE, that certain standalone institutions are insisting that students should pay the fees, including admission fees, during the lockdown. It is clarified that colleges/institutions should not insist on payment of fees till the ongoing lockdown is lifted and normalcy is restored,” the AICTE said. AICTE said that further guidelines communicating the revised timeline would be issued in due course. JNTU was appraised over issuance of termination orders to some faculty and non-payment or partial payment of salaries. “It has been learnt that various institutions have not paid salary to their faculty and staff members, for the duration of the lockdown. Also certain institutions have terminated the services of certain faculty/staff members. It is clarified that salary and other dues to the faculty/staff members will be released for the duration of lockdown and also terminations, if any, made during the lockdown will be withdrawn,” the AICTE said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/dont-pester-for-fee-or-sack-faculty-colleges-told/articleshow/75189876.cms||---
April 17, 2020||Bhopal||Quarantined complain of food and hygiene at centre||BHOPAL: Pictures of how people quarantined at a centre in Gandhi Nagar are dealing with the conditions there have gone viral. The family members of three gas victims from Jehangirabad, who died of coronavirus infection over the past few days, have been lodged in the college. Talking to TOI, family members expressed fears that if they stayed in such unhygienic conditions at the college, they would fall ill. “We were tested for the infection after the death in my family due to coronavirus. We have not been communicated the report, but I am sure, it is negative because an officer I asked for the report said the report is communicated if a person is found positive. We were observing all the norms of social distancing and hygiene at home, but here, the conditions are such that we are scared we may contract the infection from other peopl, who have been brought here,” said a family member of a victim. The family of another gas victim who died of coronavirus infection in the same area, had similar complaints. They had not received food till late in the evening on Wednesday after being brought to the college building in the afternoon. The spokesperson for the district administration, Arun Rathore, had assured that cleaning of rooms and toilets would be carried out and food packets have also been dispatched for the people at the quarantine centre. He said the sub-divisional magistrate and a team of administration and BMC are already there to bring things in order at the quarantine centre. The team did reach there, but the quality of food given to the inmates and concerns over hygiene (as the toilets were not properly cleaned) and mosquito menace made some of them to click pictures of the toilet, rooms and food they were given and upload them on WhatsApp groups, which soon went viral. “They lit mosquito coils in the room. Quality of food was ‘atrocious’, but they said it is the food they are being provided by an NGO. Mosquito coils were ineffective, there was no milk for babies and toilets are dirty,” said son of a victim on Thursday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/quarantined-complain-of-food-hygiene-at-centre/articleshow/75189027.cms||---
April 17, 2020||Nagpur||Reds slam govt for ‘exposing’ cadres to Covid threat||Nagpur: The central committee (CC) of the banned Communist Party of India (Maoist) has issued a press statement this week holding the government responsible for exposing their elderly cadres like Varavara Rao and GN Saibaba to Covid-19 threat in congested prisons. Though the press statement, issued by spokesperson Abhay, mostly highlighted the plight of migrant workers, daily wagers and labourers who have been thrown out of their livelihood due to the ongoing lockdown, the outfit’s concern for the senior cadres and their health inside jails too was prominently underlined. The rebels’ apex body also condemned Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s appeal to citizens to clang utensils and clap for the front-line staffers of medical colleges treating Covid-19 patients instead of announcing special pay allowances and packages for them.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/reds-slam-govt-for-exposing-cadres-to-covid-threat/articleshow/75189043.cms||Soumitra Bose
April 17, 2020||Kolhapur||Around 20 CPR staffers fear Covid-19 exposure||Kolhapur: Around 20 staff members of the Chhatrapati Pramila Raje Rugnalaya (CPR) have expressed concerns that they may have been exposed to the coronavirus. Though these staffers, including doctors, nurses and ward boys, were using protective gear while handling Covid-19-related cases, the hospital took cognisance of their concerns and admitted them to the isolation ward as a precautionary measure. On Thursday morning, CPR dean Minakshi Gajbhiye said their throat swab samples will be collected on a later date, as at present, they are all asymptomatic and even if their samples are sent to the laboratory now, they might test negative. However, later in the evening, while speaking to TOI, state minister for public health Rajendra Patil-Yadravkar said that the swab samples of around 19 staff members have been collected and sent for testing. When asked about the dean’s comment on sending the throat swab samples for testing on a later date, the minister said that the staff members were exposed to four patients from many days. “So we have collected their swab samples. Even if they test negative now, we can always collect their samples later as well,” he said. “We just want to make sure that they don’t suffer any health issues,” he added. On the level of CPR’s preparedness, he said that at present, the hospital has a stock of 353 PPEs, 1,250 N-95 masks and around 2,212 disposable masks. He added that there is a stock of around 4,894 hydroxychloroquine tablets and more can be procured as and when required. Earlier in the day, the dean had said that the CPR has 12 wards and has already been designated as a Covid-19 treatment hospital by the district administration. “Every ward has at least nine staff members including doctors, nurses and ward boys, who work in three different shifts. They require personal protective equipment. Some PPEs have been ordered, but as the demand is high, we might require more in the future,” she said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolhapur/around-20-cpr-staffers-fear-covid-19-exposure/articleshow/75190444.cms||---
April 17, 2020||Thane||Vegetables scarce and costly in Thane||THANE: Vegetables and fruits continued to be in short supply and expensive in Thane on Thursday due to the absence of wholesale vendors. Residents had to either rely on pulses or were forced to buy vegetables from a few retailers who sold at inflated prices. Residents said social distancing, too, was not being practised at several spots, including at Indira Nagar.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/thane/vegetables-scarce-costly-in-thane/articleshow/75187749.cms||Manoj Badgeri
April 17, 2020||Hubballi||Lockdown violation: Hundreds attend temple fest; 5 arrested, 2 officials suspended||KALABURAGI: Police arrested five people and booked 150 people for allegedly violating the lockdown and Section 144 of the CrPC by participating in a car festival at Rawoor village in Kalaburagi district on Thursday. Assistant commissioner Ramesh Kolarn said he will take action against those who violated the lockdown. Wadi PSI Vijayakumar Bavgi and child development and protection officer Rajkumar Rathod have been suspended for their inability to control the gathering.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hubballi/hundreds-attend-temple-fest-5-arrested-2-officials-suspended/articleshow/75188749.cms||---
April 17, 2020||Trichy||650 TN youths stranded in Maha want to come home||Trichy: The extension of the lockdown till May 3 has come as a nightmare for about 650 Tamil Nadu youths who have been stranded in Sangli district of Maharashtra. The workers, abandoned by Glaze Trading India Private Limited - a marketing firm, were planning to return to their native after April 14 once the lockdown was over. But the extension has put them under constant fear of contracting Covid-19. “We were informed about the lockdown only a night before by the company staff. Only a few went back home as a majority of the staff stayed back assuming the lockdown would only last a few days,” said N Ilayaraja, 26, from Keeranur of Pudukottai district. “The very next day after the lockdown, our company staff went incommunicado and also locked the office,” he said. A Baskar, 22, from Vayyampatti of Trichy district, went to Sangli district in Maharashtra about two years back. He joined with the help of his college senior and has added at least 100 people across Tamil Nadu to this company. “Many of us could make decent money out of this job. This is perhaps the reason why so many people from Tamil Nadu joined this company. But things have turned traumatic after Covid-19 outbreak,” he said The employees are staying in rented accommodations in batches of five to as many as 20 in small houses in Sangli. “Many of us cannot think of social distancing and the fact Maharashtra has the highest number of positive cases worries us more,” said M Manikandan from Theni district. He said he spoke to officials in Madurai and Theni districts, but they are suggesting us to stay back in Sangli. “But our family members are turning restless and many of us are becoming home sick after spending close to a month in this lockdown,” he said. The Maharashtra government has been providing food twice daily over the last few days. “While many of us don’t get sufficient food, we requested authorities to make arrangement for our return to Tamil Nadu. But there has not been any steps so far, said Mankandan.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/650-tn-youths-stranded-in-maha-want-to-come-home/articleshow/75189878.cms||Sampath Kumar
April 17, 2020||Jaipur||Cops stop workers from moving to home states||Jodhpur: Extension of lockdown has taken a toll on the patience of the migrant labourers across the country and with 18 more days to go, they have started moving to their homes. Many migrant workers were stopped by police stations in Jodhpur and Pali on Thursday while they were on their way to their respective destinations. In Jodhpur, 67 workers were stopped by the police at two different places who were heading for their homes in Madhya Pradesh and Uttar Pradesh. SHO (Basni) Devendra Singh Deora said that 48 workers were found in a truck when it was intercepted by the police in Sangaria area. “All these workers were farm workers from MP who had been working in agriculture farms of Jaisalmer. On Thursday morning, they hired a truck from Jaisalmer and reached Jodhpur,” said Deora. Police seized the truck and arrested the driver. All the labourers have been screened and quarantined in a government school. Deroa said that the truck driver, who belonged to Pipar city of Jodhpur, had taken Rs 100 per person to drop them in Jodhpur. Similarly, Udaimandir police stopped 19 industrial labourers, who had been living in rented rooms in Bihari Colony of Jodhpur industrial area and left on Thursday morning on foot for UP. “On learning about their march, we stopped them near circuit house, screened them, provided them with the food and sent to the wellness center at Anganva”, said the SHO Pradeep Sharma. Pali police also seized a truck on Thursday morning near Rohet, which had been transporting 48 migrant workers from Nanded (Maharashtra). All of them belonged to different villages of Jodhpur and had left after the announcement of extension of the lockdown by the prime minister on Tuesday morning. SHO (Rohet) Kamlesh Gehlot said that all these workers had been hidden in the truck under the veil of goods. “We have seized the truck and arrested the driver. We are also interrogating him that how could he manage to cross number of states and districts in order to reach Pali,” said Gehlot. These workers have also been screened and sent to the wellness centres for quarantine for the lockdown period.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/cops-stop-workers-from-moving-to-home-states/articleshow/75189880.cms||---
April 17, 2020||Kolhapur||8 positive cases in Satara had travel history||Kolhapur: The health department in Satara has identified as many as 113 close contacts of the four patients whose throat swab sample test results on Wednesday confirmed that they are Covid-19 positive. The suspects are admitted in Krishna medical college, Karad, the sub-district hospitals in Phaltan and Karad, Satara district hospital and the primary health centres in Koregaon and Wai. District health officer, Satara, Aniruddha Athalye said that the throat swab samples of the close contacts would be collected depending upon their period of exposure to the confirmed patients. “There is a possibility that the throat swab samples may test negative if we collect them now. A period of 4 to 15 days is ideal for getting the accurate results.” According to district collector Shekhar Singh, they are monitoring the health of the positive patients identified on Wednesday. Of the four patients, one is diabetic, one a 10-month-old boy and one is a 75-year-old woman. Singh added that eight of the 11 positive cases in Satara had a history of travelling to Pune or Mumbai. “We have prepared a database of around 1.4 lakh migrants who have a history of travelling from Pune and Mumbai. We are taking the help of Asha workers in monitoring the health of these individuals,” said Singh. The people who have recently tested positive do not have a recent travel history. However, most of them had travelled before the imposition of the lockdown. Superintendent of Police, Satara, Tejaswi Satpute said that the police were keeping a strict vigil over all the entry and exit points of the district. “We are also taking the help of the village-committees to track anybody coming from Pune or Mumbai,” said Satpute. State minister for Public Health Rajendra Patil-Yadravkar told TOI all the entry points at the district borders would soon be put under video-surveillance. “We are working on it. The inter-district and inter-city travel has to stop to break the chain of the virus,” said Yadravkar. When asked about what plans were in store to check those who are already in their native place, the minister that Asha workers and Anganwadi sevikas have been assigned to survey respective blocks in each areas and instructed to keep an eye on those having a travel history.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolhapur/8-positive-cases-in-satara-had-travel-history/articleshow/75190449.cms||Piyush Bhusari
April 17, 2020||Jaipur||Raj Police Day: Cop’s daughter appeals not to attack corona warriors||Udaipur: Disturbed by the nationwide incidents of mobs attacking policemen and medical teams in the wake of Covid-19 outbreak, an 18-year-old girl has taken to social media to appeal to people not to misbehave with the corona warriors. Kritika Singh, a first year student of BA LLB at the Mohanlal Sukhadia University’s Law College, has written an emotional note on the occasion of Rajasthan Police Day on Thursday, requesting people to respect policemen. Kritika’s father Harendra Singh Souda is Circle Inspector, posted at Nimbahera’s Kotwali police station in Chittorgarh district, while his family is spending the lockdown days in their ancestral house in a village in Banswara. Kritika, who aims to join the armed forces, wrote, “They are the backbone of their families as well as of our nation. Today is a day dedicated in their name and we must all respect them not only today, but every day. Low-key, I feel the service given by this department during this crisis is less appreciated and more criticized which any police officer of this nation does not deserve.” She further writes, “Every day is scary with increasing risk outside, but people who are helping and putting all the efforts to maintain social distancing by risking themselves do not deserve to get hurt by the same crowd they’re trying to protect.” Kritika further wrote, “Some people may think I am supporting police because my father is a cop. To be honest, I would respect any department which is working hard during this tough time for people. I sometimes pity the civilians because my dad is walking on the streets asking them to stay home which is not very tough. Are people so uneducated?” Kritika told TOI that on most of her birthdays or on family events, her father would have been away and she had always craved for his presence on such occasions.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/raj-police-day-cops-daughter-appeals-not-to-attack-corona-warriors/articleshow/75189890.cms||---
April 17, 2020||Hyderabad||Report delay prolongs suspects’ isolation||HYDERABAD: With the increase in samples being sent for testing, there is a delay of 2-3 days in test report being received, which has resulted in a long duration of stay in isolation for suspected patients. While the 2-3 days stay in the isolation wards not only poses a risk of contracting the virus to the suspected patients who test negative for the virus, but the delay also means that their negative report cannot be taken into consideration, if another patient in the ward during the stay turns out to be positive. “As a result the testing load increases further, as some of the patients who tested negative have to be tested again, before they can be discharged,” said a PG doctor attending to Covid-19 patients. In fact, many patients had to spend 2-3 additional days at the isolation wards at both Gandhi Hospital and Osmania General Hospital in the last fortnight due to the delay. “Four members of our family were admitted to the isolation ward at the Gandhi Hospital about ten days back and even though their reports were negative as per the duty doctor, it took another two days before they were finally discharged,” said Md Omar, a patient’s relative. Even as the number of government testing labs approved in the state has gone up from one to five now, testing is only being done at two ICMR labs- at Gandhi Medical College and Osmania Medical College, which is leading to the delay. “One of the main reasons for delay in the time taken is that the entire burden is falling on just the two labs and despite running round the clock, the labs are unable to meet the huge load. Since these two labs were set up for college-level activities, these are not fully equipped to handle the huge load of extensive Covid-19 testing. There is a need to extend testing at other laboratories to meet the current load,” said Dr Mahesh Kumar, president Healthcare Reforms Doctors Association. Meanwhile, Covid-19 testing had been approved at Fever Hospital, Institute of Preventive Medicine and Mahatma Gandhi Memorial Hospital, Warangal previously but testing is yet to begin at these labs.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/report-delay-prolongs-suspects-isolation/articleshow/75189907.cms||Amrita Didyala
April 17, 2020||Nashik||12 high-risk contacts of Covid-19 patient traced||Nashik: The health teams of the Nashik Municipal Corporation (NMC) have traced 17 high-risk contacts and 153 low-risk contacts of a 24-year old migrant worker who tested positive on Wednesday evening. The Covid-19 patient had been put up in a shelter home in the office building of the state’s social justice department in Bajrangwadi area near Nasardi bridge along Nashik-Pune road. A total of 318 people have been taking shelter there. NMC officials said they have traced 17 high-risk contacts, who have been isolated in the NMC hospital and their throat swab samples have been sent for testing. Apart from that, 153 low-risk contacts have also been traced, who are currently under observation. The NMC had immediately sealed the containment areas of Bajrangwadi on Wednesday evening after the migrant worker tested positive. Following which, the NMC disinfected the containment areas on Wednesday night and on Thursday morning. Four teams of health officials, nurses and other staff have been deployed to conduct a door-to-door survey. The health official said that they conducted a survey of 193 houses, inspecting the health of over 900 people. The workers, hailing from Uttar Pradesh, were among several others from the migrant workforce that had walked from Mumbai up to Igatpuri and were stopped by the police before Nashik.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/12-high-risk-contacts-of-covid-19-patient-traced/articleshow/75189048.cms||Tushar Pawar
April 17, 2020||Aurangabad||This incident cannot be taken lightly, high court on leopard’s death||Aurangabad: The Aurangabad bench of Bombay high court has taken suo motu cognisance of the recent death of leopard in Paithan taluka and asked the authorities concerned to submit documents, records and other evidence available with them related to the unfortunate incident. While the court is conducting virtual hearings only on urgent matters due to lockdown, a single member bench of justice Ravidran Ghuge held a video-conference on Thursday during which he said that the incident cannot be taken lightly. The court has also asked the competent authorities to take appropriate steps for drafting a proper Public Interest Litigation (PIL) before April 27. Quoting media reports, the court observed alleged "callousness, negligence and lack of sensitivity" by the employees of the forest department while rescuing the leopard. The court has also cited the opinion of a veterinary expert in news reports, who had noticed that "some employees of the forest department had stepped on the neck of the leopard in order to overpower the big cat and this caused asphyxiation (suffocation) leading to its death." The big cat was alleged to be the victim of an ill-planned rescue operation which was executed on April 10 without using tranquilliser or cage. The young male leopard died within a couple of hours of getting trapped and the autopsy had attributed the death to "suspected cardiac arrest". Hailing the judiciary for showing sensitivity towards the killing of the leopard and initiating suo moto PIL, wildlife expert Kishor Pathak on Thursday said that the forest department officials must be punished for their irresponsible act. "It can be safely said that the forest authorities carried out hunting of leopard in the name of rescuing it. The leopard could have been easily tranquillised, but they did it after the animal was caught in the net. It is also alleged that few members of the rescue team put pressure on the neck on the leopard in an attempt to overpower it," he said. Yadav Tarte-Patil of conservation group Disha said the judicial intervention in the death of leopard will ensure that facts will come to the fore. "Mystery surrounds over the post-mortem of the leopard. There is no transparency on this aspect so far and we request the judiciary to dig dip into it," he said. Listed in Schedule I of the Indian Wildlife (Protection) Act, 1972, leopard has been listed as ‘Near Threatened’ on the Red List of International Union for Conservation of Nature.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/this-incident-cannot-be-taken-lightly-high-court-on-leopards-death/articleshow/75190789.cms||---
April 17, 2020||Jaipur||Rajasthan: Parents demand rollback of increase in school fees||JAIPUR: The coronavirus pandemic has brought life to a standstill and hit the financial backbone of many families. With uncertainty becoming the norm of life, fees hike by private schools have put additional burden on the parents. Like every year, most of the schools have increased their fees by 10-25%. However, considering the extraordinary situation this year owing to Covid-19, there is a growing demand by the parents to roll back the fees hike. Many parents have already written to education minister Govind Singh Dotasra. Several parents too tweeted him to take action in this regard. However, the government has not taken any decision in this regard so far. Prashant Dubey, whose children are studying in one of the private schools, said that his business is shut for the last two months. “Our businesses are closed and with difficulty we are paying our workers. The government has deferred school fees for three months and even salaries of government employees. Then why private schools should not roll back fees hike this year, said Dubey. Schools usually give the new fees hike notices to parents in March as from April onwards fees have to be submitted. Though government has deferred the school fees for three months but fee hike is still implemented. Another parent Saloni Mishra said, “Schools do have a moral duty to roll back the fees hike this year. Entire world economy is crumbling and people are finding it hard to survive. Private schools have a good amount of margin in the school fees. This is not the right time to implement the fees hike.” President of School Shiksha Pariwar, Anil Sharma, however, said that private schools are going through tough times as well. “We have to pay to the teachers and other expenditures that will not decrease due to the pandemic. Electricity department have deferred the bills but with penalty. All the schools are following the School Fee Act while increasing the fees so that parents should also pay the fees accordingly as this is for their children’s benefit,” said Sharma.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/parents-demand-rollback-of-increase-in-school-fees/articleshow/75189887.cms||---
April 17, 2020||Nagpur||Content look of the lonely seniors drives Ghiya couple||Nagpur: From delivering groceries and medicines to senior citizens living on their own, providing food to poor to taking patients to hospital for dialysis, the Ghiya couple has been relentless in their efforts to serve the needy. Ashish and Deya Ghiya, both in their early 30s, have made it their mission to help Nagpurians in need during this lockdown period. With Ashish’s workplace currently shut due to lockdown, the couple decided it won’t be idling away time. “On the first day itself, I sent out a message on social media offering my services to help any senior citizen who might be living alone and is unable to procure essential items due to travel restrictions,” said Ghiya. The couple then started getting calls from acquaintances who knew people in urgent need of groceries or medicines. The couple only charges for the actuals, while the delivery and all related logistics are part of the service they offer. “Many times, senior citizens tell us that we must at least take money for car’s petrol. I tell them that the only thing we need is their blessing,” said the Ghiyas. Ashish added that a confirmation of his line of thinking came when he delivered some groceries to a senior lady. “The moment you hand it over to them and the content look on their faces is the biggest blessing. It assures me and Deya that we are doing the right thing,” said Ashish. The couple has been associated with well known activist Khushroo Poacha for the last three years. Poacha said, “They (Ghiyas) are very loving and enthusiastic couple. Always ready to help people and that too on a very short notice.” Once the husband-wife duo spotted daily wage earner women on the road and after talking to them realized that they desperately needed foodgrains, not cooked food packets that the couple was carrying. “We told them to meet us at 7pm at the same spot and we will come back with foodgrains,” said Ashish. They sourced the food kits through Poacha and upon reaching saw that the women were already queued up in a disciplined manner on the road. “That trust which these women showed in coming back to the spot is something we never want to break for anyone,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/content-look-of-the-lonely-seniors-drives-ghiya-couple/articleshow/75189085.cms||Abhishek Choudhari
April 17, 2020||Meerut||Delhi-Meerut RRTS: Nodal agency conducts pre-bidding meetings via video conferencing||Meerut: With construction activities coming to a grinding halt, the Delhi-Meerut rapid rail project saw progress on a different front on Thursday when a nodal agency tasked to complete the ambitious Rs 30,274 crore project conducted global pre-bidding meetings via video conferencing for two “critical packages”.The agency, National Capital Region Transport Corporation (NCRTC), said that the meetings “garnered excellent response from the industry”. Other than Indian entities, prospective bidders from across the globe such as Japan, South Korea, China, Germany and Turkey also participated actively in the meeting, it said.According to sources in the NCRTC, the two packages are Package 29 and Package 8, for which the pre-bidding meetings were held.The Package 29 entails design, manufacturing, supply and supervision of installation of spherical bearings set for elevated viaduct of the RRTS Corridor. Around 11.53-km section of 82-km long corridor will be underground. Rest 70.5km is elevated.The underground portion includes 5.8-km long stretch between New Ashok Nagar RRTS Station and BEL (Ghaziabad) and 5.73 km long stretch between Meerut’s Brahmpuri Metro Station (elevated) and MES Colony Metro Station (elevated).While Package 8 entails design and construction of tunnels from Bhainsali Bus Stand to Begumpul area in Meerut. In Meerut, there will be three underground stations: Meerut Central, Bhainsali and Begumpul.“The outbreak of the novel coronavirus and the subsequent lockdown have adversely affected almost all individuals and disrupted almost all social and economic activities across the globe including India. As a nation, India is fighting hard together. However, disruption should not mean stopping or waiting. Team NCRTC is leveraging technology to effectively ‘Work from Home’. Tools like video conferencing, Common Data Environment, Microsoft Teams are being used for timely completion of project-related tasks such as detailed architectural and structural drawings, proof-checking, finalisation of method statements, optimising construction planning and sequencing in evolving situations, bid process management, on-line pre-bid meetings and all other things to reduce the impact of the pandemic. The preparation of documentation for obtaining various approvals from Statuary Authorities, Railways, DMRC and ADB is also underway,” said spokesperson NCRTC Sudhir Sharma.The RRTS corridor will originate from Sarai Kale Khan station in Delhi and Modipuram in Meerut will be the last stop. In the first phase, the Meerut-Ghaziabad-Delhi corridor will be completed with a cost of Rs 30,274 crore by 2025. NCRTC is mandated to design, construct, finance, operate and maintain RRTS in NCR and works under the administrative control of Union ministry of housing & urban affairs.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/meerut/delhi-meerut-rrts-nodal-agency-conducts-pre-bidding-meetings-via-video-conferencing/articleshow/75190459.cms||Sandeep Rai
April 17, 2020||Meerut||Cops who fed lonely woman during lockdown also perform her last rites||Meerut: Going beyond the call of duty, policemen in UP’s Saharanpur district performed the last rites of an elderly woman who was found starving a few days ago at her mud-house and was rushed to a nearby hospital by them. But, due to other age-related ailments, she succumbed on Tuesday night.Meena lived alone in Saharanpur’s Badgaon village after her husband’s death four years ago. She was somehow managing a meal a day till the lockdown was clamped.Seeing her serious condition, someone alerted the policemen who rushed to her help and offered food. That the last meal she had.Senior sub-inspector (SSI) Deepak Chaudhary got her admitted to local community health centre in Nanauta area.“She was in a very bad shape when we spotted her. We gave food, and later admitted her to a local hospital. She was then referred to a higher centre in Saharanpur where she died late on Tuesday night,” SSI Chaudhary said.In the absence of family members, the policemen took out her funeral procession. A video of the men in khaki carrying the funeral was shared on social media platforms and attracted heaps of praises.It also caught the attention of the brass.“Since she had no one left in her family, my men became her family and carried her body for cremation. Proud of u boys,” Saharanpur SSP Dinesh Kumar P tweeted.From managing community kitchens to home delivering essentials, several such stories of policemen helping the poor and destitute amid lockdown are being hailed by social media users.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/meerut/cops-who-fed-lonely-woman-during-lockdown-also-perform-her-last-rites/articleshow/75190455.cms||Piyush Rai
April 17, 2020||Visakhapatnam||Travel, tourism sectors stare at uncertain future post Covid-19||VISAKHAPATNAM: With the travel and tourism industry under stress due to the Covid-19 pandemic, more than 1,500 travel agents from the two Telugu states have urged the government for bailout packages. The industry is also staring at a possible job loss of around 60% of workforce in AP and Telangana. “Ours is the only industry which starts earning from the first month of the calendar year. However, the outbreak of Covid-19 crippled our business right from mid-January. In February and March, there were only cancellations and no fresh bookings as the country went into lockdown. There is no hope of revival in the coming months,” said K Vijay Mohan, president of Tours & Travel Operators Association of AP. The association has 300 members operating in AP alone besides another 300-odd individual agents. “Our members are facing at least Rs 10 crore loss every month, while the loss for non-members would be around Rs 6 crore. This has been the situation since January,” Mohan added. Usually, 75% of the business in the travel and tourism sector happens between January and August, with 40% in the summer months alone. “We don’t earn much in the first quarter, but business picks up as summer approaches. Our profits are mainly from international travel, not domestic ones,” said Srinivasa Rao, a travel agent. He added that a travel operator or agent can earn around Rs 40 lakh during the summer months when many people travel abroad to spend their holidays. However, due to the Covid threat, people are unlikely to make any travel or holiday plans in the near future. “It’s normally a lean season for us from August to December. How will we sustain ourselves, unless the government bails us out,” says a tour operator, adding that there would be lay-offs in the coming days. “There has been no business for the past four months. The maintenance cost of my offices in AP is Rs 14 lakh every month. But I earned only Rs 4 lakh. I can’t even pay salaries to my staff, forget paying for maintenance,” rues Mohan. He added that many people would be wary of taking flights for a few months even after the situation improves. “If the travel time is between four to seven hours, people will prefer to go by road and in their own cars instead of taking public transport,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/visakhapatnam/travel-tourism-sectors-stare-at-uncertain-future-post-covid-19/articleshow/75187796.cms||Siva G
April 17, 2020||Nashik||NMC, police ensure smooth supply of essentials in red zones||Nashik: The Nashik Municipal Corporation (NMC) along with city police are ensuring supply of essential items for people living in the three containment areas of the city. Govind Nagar, Rajlaxmi Lawns in Nashik Road area and Anandvalli on Gangapur Road are the three containment zones in the city. A WhatsApp group of the chairpersons of all the housing societies has been formed where they can place orders for vegetable on behalf of all the residents. Some of the residents have also appreciated the way in which the civic health teams are taking care of everyone, especially the senior citizens. The first person to test positive for Covid-19 was a resident of Mohan Nagar in Govind Nagar. He was tested positive on April 6. Two more residents — one each from Anandvalli and Rajlaxmi Lawns — tested positive on April 10. Following this the civic body sealed all the three locations for two weeks to contain the spread of Covid-19. "The initial few days were difficult as getting the essentials was difficult. But now we are getting all the necessary groceries, vegetable and milk. Moreover, the health teams from the NMC are also taking care of the people and inquiring about everyone’s health, particularly senior citizens," Unmesh Kulkarni, resident of Navsya Ganpati area in Anandvalli, said. "Residents of Govind Nagar are getting weekly supply of vegetable along with other essentials. Hence, there is no issue," corporate Pravin Tidme said. Another corportaor, Kalpana Pande, said the first few days were strict. "However, after all the high risk contact patients tested negative, some relaxation was offered to get groceries and vegetable," she said. Sandip Vaje, a local resident, praised the police and the civic body for doing a good job. "We are getting vegetable delivered at our doorstep owing to the WhatsApp group. The only downside is that people need to give bulk orders that will last enough for a week. ," he said,||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/nmc-police-ensure-smooth-supply-of-essentials-in-red-zones/articleshow/75189069.cms||Tushar Pawar
April 17, 2020||Meerut||Covid-19 effect: Nikaah over video call in Bulandshahr||Meerut: A unique wedding was held in Bulandshahr’s Khurja town on Thursday in the presence of a cleric, a lawyer, a witness and a groom. A nikaah was completed over a video call with the bride in Gautambudh Nagar.With the wedding date fixed months before the Covid-19 outbreak, the couple and their families didn't want to delay the event and decided to go ahead even with the groom and bride kilometres apart. They respected social distancing norms, too, keeping it a simple affair and hardly calling anyone to the event.The nikaah took place with the groom holding his phone and the bride on the other end, on a video call. The cleric solemnised the wedding after a clear ‘qubool hai’ from the couple.“It was not possible to take a wedding procession to my bride's house during the nationwide lockdown. However, since the date of the wedding was already fixed, we did not want to delay it any further,” Aarif, the groom, in his twenties, said.“The nikaah was conducted as per proper rituals. The only thing different was the bride wasn't present in person.This was a unique wedding, but it also helped in keeping everyone safe and healthy,” Saajid, the cleric who performed the nikaah, said||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/meerut/covid-19-effect-nikaah-over-video-call-in-bulandshahr/articleshow/75190458.cms||Ishita Bhatia
April 17, 2020||Kolhapur||Solapur registers 10 new Covid-19 cases||Kolhapur: Solapur city on Thursday recorded 10 new Covid-19 positive cases, taking the the tally to 12. The health department received as many as 42 throat swab samples on Thursday morning of which, 32 tested negative. Solapur district collector Milind Shambharkar said that of the 10 new cases, one is a close contact of the first person who died due to Covid-19, while the remaining nine are close contacts of the nurse who contracted the infection from the deceased man earlier. “All new suspects are residents of the Pacha Peth area where the first case was identified. All positive patients are being treated at the Chhatrapati Shivaji Maharaj Sarvopchar Rugnalaya (civil hospital). They have been admitted to the isolation ward,” he said, adding that considering the current situation, citizens should stay indoors and strictly follow the social distancing norm. Shambharkar said that they have already cordoned off the area and are identifying close contacts of the newly-admitted patients.  "The close contacts of the recent positive patients too will be called in and their throat swab samples will be collected. The Pacha Peth area where the deceased and other patients used to live has been declared containment zone and all types of movement in the area has been restricted," he said. "A survey is being carried out across the containment zone and the health squads are keeping a close eye on anyone showing any symptoms related to the respiratory disease," he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolhapur/solapur-registers-10-new-covid-19-cases/articleshow/75190456.cms||Piyush Bhusari
April 17, 2020||Trichy||40 Covid patients recover, discharged||Trichy: As many as 40 Covid-19 patients were discharged from hospitals in three districts in the central region, while a 62 year-old Tablighi Jamaat delegate from Athirampattinam in Thanjavur tested positive on Thursday.The patient was admitted to the isolation ward at Thanjavur Government Medical College Hospital. With this, the total number of cases in Thanjavur touched 17. In the central region, the total cases climbed to 161.Mahatma Gandhi Memorial Government Hospital (MGMGH) in Trichy discharged 32 Covid-19 recovered patients on Thursday. They included 29 patients from Trichy and one patient each from Karur, Perambalur and Ariyalur districts. “The testing confirmed that they are negative,” Trichy collector S Sivarasu told reporters at MGMGH.The discharged people were among the 43 Covid-19 patients who tested positive since March 31. The treatment for the remaining 14 patients including a one-year-old baby is continuing. “All of them are stable. The discharged patients are advised to be in quarantine for 14 days and not to be in close contact with the family members,” said the collector. The collector also appreciated all the doctors and the health workers for their contribution towards the treatment of the Covid-19 patients.In Karur, seven patients were discharged from the Government Medical College Hospital following their recovery from Covid-19. Five of them are native of Dindigul while two are from Namakkal district.Till Wednesday, 52 patients from Karur, Dindigul and Namakkal districts were discharged from the Karur Government Medical Hospital.Thanjavur district also recorded the first recovery of a Covid-19 positive patient on Thursday with the discharge of a 42-year-old man from Kumbakonam. Being an employee in a company in West Indies, he was back in India on March 18. As he developed symptoms for Covid-19, he was admitted to the hospital on March 25 and he tested positive on March 28.As he tested negative after treatment, Covid-19 monitoring officer M S Shanmugam, district collector M Govinda Rao, medical college dean Kumutha Lingaraj gave him a farewell on Thursday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/40-covid-patients-recover-discharged/articleshow/75189889.cms||---
April 17, 2020||Jaipur||Jaipur: Ramganj crowd jostle for free ration, violate government protocol||JAIPUR: There was a moment of huge anxiety when a crowd from different lanes swelled at Mehron ki Nadi in Ramganj to get free ration distributed by the district administration on Thursday. Ramganj police station SHO Ashok Chauhan said that people feared that they will be left out of ration distribution so come out of houses though they were not called. “People from different lanes and colonies started gathering on the spot. Number of people was increasing but we acted immediately. We tried to control them and persuaded them all will get the ration. There was no violence but due to pandemic, it was dangerous that so many people gathered on the spot. However, we distributed ration,” said Chauhan. This is the second incident of lockdown violation in one week when people jostled to collect ration. A few days back, hundreds of people came out to collect ration from Jaipur Municipal Corporation (JMC) at Kachi Basti in Jhalana. People were out of control that time and the JMC had to pack up and move out of the area as soon as possible. They went to the basti to distribute at least 400 packets but were not able to give away more than 25 packets. JMC enforcement wing had demanded more force to resume the ration distribution in Jhalana area. The repetition of such incident shows the careless attitude of the administration. Ramganj area, already a hotspot where the number of COVID–19 cases is increasing, these kinds of incidents create more danger. In the ration distribution, police and district administration need to be more strict in handling crowd or the cases will rise further.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/ramganj-crowd-jostle-for-free-ration-violate-govt-protocol/articleshow/75189892.cms||---
April 17, 2020||Nagpur||‘Covid Yoddhas’ to help cops enforce lockdown||Nagpur: City police’s ‘Covid Yoddha’ scheme involving citizens rolled out on Thursday indicating chief BK Upadhyay’s move towards community-based technique instead of using force on citizens to enforce lockdown.The cops also started pulling up the bikers for riding with pillion and drivers for carrying more than one passenger in cars on Thursday but no specific data were maintained. The traffic police have fined 938 people that also includes such riders and motorists, said a senior official. In the ongoing lockdown, city police would be also stepping up their checking and verification drives manifold on roads with more barricades being put up. They may not use canes but made a fresh appeal on Thursday to either move with valid identity cards, police permissions or face legal action including FIRs and seizing of vehicles. Joint CP Ravindra Kadam has warned about more stringent checking on the roads from Friday. With the migrant labourers housed at various shelter homes demanding repatriation to home towns, city police had to engage their crime branch personnel full time to tackle this issue. Senior crime branch officials, including Addl CP Nilesh Bharne, DCP Gajanan Rajmane and ACP Sudhir Nandanwar have been visiting the shelter homes trying to counsel the inmates of 19 shelter homes. “It is becoming a challenge to handle the labourers who are becoming violent,” said an officer. After the cops acted tough in the initial days and invited criticism, they were asked to adopt milder measures. The latest strategy is to convince citizens about social distancing, remaining at home pr stepping out only with valid ID cards or police passes for genuine reasons. As per the latest plan of Upadhyay, the police stations would rope in citizen volunteers who would be labeled ‘Covid Yoddha’. They would accompany cops to different locations in autorickshaws fitted with public announcement systems for creating awareness. CP Upadhyay said police stations had started hiring the three-wheelers and selecting volunteers. “Covid Yoddha is an extension of the community policing and hopefully we would get better response and cooperation from the masses as it would be one of their fellow citizens requesting them to follow the norms of the lockdown,” he said. The top cop also has initiated use of social media platforms to spread awareness and make appeals.In another positive development, city police would be distributing PPE kits to personnel deployed at the quarantine facilities and also at the government hospitals and laboratories.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/covid-yoddhas-to-help-cops-enforce-lockdown/articleshow/75189094.cms||Soumitra Bose
April 17, 2020||Bhopal||State is conducting tests, spurt in Covid cases not a concern: CM||Bhopal: Chief minister, Shivraj Singh Chouhan, said on Thursday that spurt in the number of Covid patients in Indore and Bhopal was not a matter of great concern, as earlier tests weren’t being conducted, but now they are. “People in Indore started dying in March due to coronavirus, which means the infection was there but patients were not tested and treated because there were no facilities. Till March 23, there had been no test for coronavirus in the state, now that tests are taking place at several places in the state, patients are being detected and treated. The good sign is that maximum number of patients are responding to treatment and returning home after cure,” he said in a statement. Chouhan attributed the increase in Covid cases in Bhopal to spread of infection among health officials and staff and presence of jamaatis in mosques in large numbers. “There had been no meeting on coronavirus with the chief minister in attendance till I took charge. Health staff had also not been trained on how to protect themselves from infection. An IAS officer got infected followed by another IAS officer and then a whole lot of health officials and staff were infected. I have ordered an inquiry on how the coronavirus infection spread among the health staff and action will be taken after the probe report is submitted,” he said. Chief minister said there has been a delay in attempts to tackle the menace, but now the state government is on the job to contain the coronavirus infection. “We have divided the state in three categories. More-affected places — Indore, Bhopal and Ujjain — are in the first category, places where infected persons have been but they are only a few are in the second category and places with no infected cases are in the third category.” While the places in the first category have been sealed so that infection doesn’t go out from there; efforts of controlling infection through hotspot, epicentres and containment areas are being made and medically “identify, isolate, test and treat” strategy is being followed. He said special attention is being paid to Indore, where 3.9 lakh people have been surveyed and samples if 5,120 people collected from high-risk zones. He said the city has been divided in 11 zones and 489 teams are deployed for health survey of people. Chief minister said that 80% of the patients in Indore come from 3-4 localities and the pandemic would soon be under control.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/state-is-conducting-tests-spurt-in-covid-cases-not-a-concern-cm/articleshow/75189088.cms||---
April 17, 2020||Trichy||Pudukottai rolls back restrictions on grocery shops||Trichy: Pudukottai district administration has rolled back its decision to restrict grocery shops to operate only for three days in a week.The decision was made after finding people making a beeline to grocery shops flouting social distancing norms. However, there is no relaxation on the timings as shops will be allowed to operate from 6 am till 1 pm every day.Even though Pudukottai continues to be one among the few districts without a single Covid-19 positive case, the district administration has tightened the grip restricting people from venturing out of their home.A senior official from Pudukottai district administration said that a total of 115 places were identified within the district for door delivery of vegetables. This would prevent people from stepping out. Further we have decided to restrict them from coming out for groceries, the official said.While grocery shops were closed last weekend apart from Tuesday, there was considerable rush on Wednesday in the shops and markets. Police had to be roped in to control the crowd while shopping.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/pudukottai-rolls-back-restrictions-on-grocery-shops/articleshow/75189904.cms||---
April 17, 2020||Visakhapatnam||IT firms under stress as clients delay payments||VISAKHAPATNAM: While the full impact of the pandemic on global economy is yet to be ascertained, there is little doubt that it has rattled many sectors across the world. In Visakhapatnam, the Rs 2,000-crore IT industry is navigating choppy waters. Industry sources said at least 30% of IT companies with a workforce of less than 100 are likely to down shutters. A majority of the clients of these companies are based in the US, and European countries which have been worst affected by the virus. “There would be difficulty in getting payments as clients have also been impacted. The credit cycle would increase and it would impact the bench strength of all backup, which will reduce by 50% to 100%. Small companies with no cash reserve are likely to close down,” predicted O Naresh Kumar, CEO of Symbiosis. AP has around 600 small and large IT firms in Visakhapatnam, Vijayawada, Tirupati and Kakinada, which have a workforce strength of around 25,000. Visakhapatnam alone has 20,000 employees working in around 250 IT companies. Industry experts said the efficiency of workforce has come down by nearly 60% due to the lockdown. “Neither public nor private transport is plying. Every IT company has only three to four passes for employees. Most of the employees are working from home. And working from home comes with its own set of constraints,” said the HR head of an IT firm.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/visakhapatnam/it-firms-under-stress-as-clients-delay-payments/articleshow/75187825.cms||Siva G
April 17, 2020||Bengaluru||BBMP wants to hire epidemiologists, but offers only Rs 25,000 salary||BENGALURU: Realising the need for epidemiologists amid the Covid-19 outbreak, BBMP has initiated the process for their recruitment. However, its notification inviting applications has been flayed by public health experts, who are aghast at the low salary of Rs 25,000 offered for the four posts. Epidemiologists play a vital role in battling public health crises with their expertise in community medicine and statistical analysis. In fact, four such experts working with the Palike quit recently. “All four epidemiologists hired on a temporary basis resigned when the Covid-19 crisis began. Why should everything be criticised? I will recruit those who are willing to work for Rs 25,000 per month,” asserted BBMP commissioner BH Anil Kumar. A similar notification was issued by the health and family welfare department on April 9. It mandated three years of experience in public health, apart from the basic qualification of MBBS and postgraduation in public health epidemiology, or MSc in life sciences or epidemiology with three years of experience. The department had offered a salary of Rs 33,600 per month, clearly stating that hiring would be done on a temporary, contract basis. It had called for walk-in interviews on April 10 and 11. “We had issued a notification but it drew a poor response,” said Pankaj Kumar Pandey, health commissioner. He added the salary offered was as per Government of India norms, which apply to all states. The health department has seven epidemiologists working at present and had called applications for seven more posts given the situation. Experts in the field of public health say the minimum salary paid to a fresher (epidemiology) in a research institution is Rs 50,000-Rs 70,000. According to Dr Anant Bhan, an adjunct professor and researcher in bioethics at Yenepoya (deemed to be university), Mangaluru, the recruitment notification indicates the government is waking up to the importance of public health. “But the pay offered is too low and disrespectful of public health scientists. We would want trained, qualified persons with experience to join. But given the Rs 25,000 salary offered by government institutions like BBMP, who would join? If they recruit a fresher, by the time s/he would get into the system, it may be too late or the Covid-19 scenario may have changed. One should consider the rent for a house in a city like Bengaluru before fixing the salary,” Dr Bhan said. He added that in countries like Singapore, the government competes with the private sector by giving better wages to civil servants.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/bbmp-wants-to-hire-epidemiologists-but-offers-only-rs-25k-salary/articleshow/75189363.cms||Sunitha Rao R
April 17, 2020||Nashik||2,231 employees withdraw Rs 4.59cr from PF accounts||Nashik: Over Rs 4.59 crore has been withdrawn by as many as 2,231 people from their provident fund accounts connected with the Employees Provident Fund Organization (EPFO) in the past 10 days. The Centre has notified a special withdrawal provision under the EPFO scheme due to the Covid-19 outbreak. Under this provision, non-refundable withdrawal to the extent of the basic wages and dearness allowances for three months or up to 75% of the amount standing to member's credit in the EPF account, whichever is less, is admissible. A lot of people are under financial distress owing to the ongoing lockdown. Keeping this in mind, the central government came up with this decision to allow withdrawal of money from the PF accounts. An EPFO official said in the past 10 days over 2,000 employees from the region had applied for withdrawal of money from their PF accounts. "Accordingly, EPFO has deposited the money directly into their bank accounts," he said. Moreover, the Centre has also given relief to businesses having less than 100 workers in their establishments. The central government has decided to pay both the contribution for three months — from March to May. "There are 5,030 industries and establishments in Nashik region that will benefit from this scheme," the official said. Meanwhile, the due date for filing electronic challan-cum-return for the month of March, has been extended till May 15. Earlier, the due date for filing return was April 15. Employers who have paid salaries of employees for the month of March will have to file the return by May 15. Nashik regional office of EPFO include five districts – Nashik, Ahmednagar, Dhule, Nandurbar and Jalgaon.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/2231-employees-withdraw-rs-4-59cr-from-pf-accounts/articleshow/75189089.cms||Tushar Pawar
April 17, 2020||Trichy||Police arrest 13 Myanmar nationals||Tiruvarur: The Needamangalam police have arrested 13 Myanmar nationals in Tiruvarur on Thursday on charges of violating Section 144 imposed. They were arrested under the Passport Act. Two of them had already tested Covid-19 positive, and all are under isolation at Tiruvarur Government Medical College Hospital. All the 13 had arrived at Tiruvarur after participating the Tablighi Jamaat Conference in Delhi on March 24 and were traced by the health department. Now, police have initiated action against them and formally arrested them.TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/police-arrest-13-myanmar-nationals/articleshow/75073882.cms||---
April 17, 2020||Mumbai||APMC fruit market shut for close to wk||APMC’s fruit market was shut for the sixth day on Thursday, with no assurance of when it will restart operations. While APMC sources attributed the closure to “a state government decision as social distancing was an issue,” traders said It was a joint decision by the government and traders. An APMC official, though, said there was no government direction on paper.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/apmc-fruit-market-shut-for-close-to-wk/articleshow/75187811.cms||---
April 17, 2020||Ajmer||Administration on the edge as Ajmer’s sixth positive case found from a shelter home||AJMER: After a 15-day lull, Ajmer’s sixth positive case has been reported from a shelter home where 175 others were housed. The 22-year-old patient was staying in the temporary shelter home at the railway museum building on Nasirabad Road. There were about 175 more people staying in the same shelter home. The patient belonged to Delhi and came to Ajmer on March 9. A team of 25 doctors from JLN Medical College reached the shelter home to test other people residing there. An area of 1km radius from the spot has been sealed. The health department has started a survey of the region to know if anyone was infected by the patient. The team is now looking for people to whom this patient came into contact including those who distributed food packets at this shelter home and also those who came to clean the premises. Police is also investigating whether these people went out to different shops. Residents in Ajmer were relieved that there was no new case since March 31, but the new case at the shelter home has made them edgy. The latest case was taken to JLN Hospital on Wednesday evening as he was suffering from fever and cough. On Thursday morning his reports came positive.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ajmer/admn-on-the-edge-as-ajmers-sixth-ve-case-found-from-a-shelter-home/articleshow/75189902.cms||---
April 17, 2020||Meerut||UP Police use drones to find lockdown violators, 54 booked on day 1||MUZAFFARNAGAR: Police in UP’s Muzaffarnagar district have resorted to aerial surveillance to keep a tab on crowding in areas marked as Covid-19 hotspots. Drones flying overhead are spotting and taking photos of those violating the lockdown. “Those identified are being booked and FIRs are being sent at their doorsteps,” a police officer said. On Thursday, police in Muzaffarnagar’s Kidwai Nagar area, which is a hotspot, registered 11 FIRs against 54 people after spotting them through drones. Interestingly, as part of another novel initiative, copies of the FIRs are being delivered at the homes of the accused so that they don’t crowd the police stations. Local police are also announcing the names of lockdown violators over public broadcast systems in a bid to shame them for what it said “dangerous act” amid pandemic. Senior superintendent of police (SSP) of Muzaffarnagar Abhishek Yadav said, “We are using drone cameras, CCTV cameras, mobile phone footages to find such offenders and FIRs are being sent to their homes. We have booked more than 2,000 offenders so far.” So far, 2,683 people have been booked for violating the lockdown in the district. Police have also slapped Rs 31 lakh penalty on 13,438 vehicle owners, caught driving on roads without any valid reason. Besides, 1,161 vehicles were impounded.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/meerut/up-police-use-drones-to-find-lockdown-violators-54-booked-on-day-1/articleshow/75190466.cms||Mohd Dilshad
April 17, 2020||Meerut||Three migrant labourers in Saharanpur shelter home flee, booked||Meerut: Three migrant labourers housed at a shelter home in Saharanpur to contain Covid-19 infection fled from the facility on Thursday. An FIR has been filed against those who flouted norms and action is being taken against them.“As many as three migrant workers fled from the shelter house in Bihari Garh, where migrant labourers are being kept. It is not a quarantine centre.However, as per norms, they cannot leave during the nationwide lockdown, especially when Section 144 is imposed here,” said Dinesh Kumar P, Saharanpur SSP.It should be noted that earlier 16 people had fled from Bulandshahr’s quarantine facility and were booked under various sections of the Indian Penal Code and Epidemic Diseases.Recently, a Covid-19 positive patient had fled from a quarantine centre in Baghpat and was later found by the police after a manhunt was launched.“A case is being filed against the three migrants under relevant sections of the Indian Penal Code,” said Kumar.A manhunt has been launched to trace them soon after they went missing from the shelter home in Bihari Garh area.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/meerut/three-migrant-labourers-in-saharanpur-shelter-home-flee-booked/articleshow/75190462.cms||Ishita Bhatia
April 17, 2020||Nashik||64 people lodged in Shirdi isolation ward||Nashik: Sixty-four people are currently getting treatment and care at the isolation ward set up by the Shri Saibaba Sansthan Trust, Shirdi, on its premises. They had been brought to Sai Dharmshala from the Ahmednagar civil hospital. The temple trust had set up 80 isolation beds in eight halls on the ground floor of its rest house on April 5. Chief executive officer of Shri Saibaba Sansthan Trust, Arun Dongre, said they had received instructions from the district administration to provide their rest house facility to keep those whose Covid-19 tests are awaited or need to be kept in isolation. Currently, there are 64 people staying in the facility. The people staying at Sai Dharmshala are given breakfast and meals twice a day. “Our people are taking care of those who are staying here. We prepare food for them thrice a day and take care of their requirement,” said Dongre. The rest house halls have LED television sets, where the live broadcast of Sai arti takes place every day, the CEO added. The facility has enough sanitiser required to take precautionary measures. Recently, MLA Rohit Pawar had also donated 100 litres of sanitiser for the two hospitals of Saibaba Sansthan.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/64-people-lodged-in-shirdi-isolation-ward/articleshow/75189096.cms||pragya jain
April 17, 2020||Ajmer||Rajasthan: Infected man had tested negative twice||AJMER: The 22-year-old patient that found positive on Thursday was tested twice before but found negative. He was first taken to JLN Hospital with fever and cough on 2 of April but his report came negative. On second count he was taken to hospital on 7 of April when he had epilepsy and he was again tested negative. On 14 April he was admitted with fever and cough and today he found positive. Doctors said that it is possible that this patient is infected at shelter home or while roaming in Ajmer in last one week. Most of the doctors rule out that this patient brought the infection from outside as he came first on 9 March and tested twice in Ajmer. One more suspect from the same shelter home is admitted to hospital and doctors are waiting for the report. The screening of shelter homes has started by medical department because they are suspected to become hotspot in Ajmer as these people residing in different shelter homes are shifted many times from one place to other. There are shelter homes at Government College, Padao, railway museum Alwar gate, Adhai din ka Jhopda, Ander kot of dargah and more than 1 thousand people are residing at different places. There were 24 people who were shifted to Padao shelter home in the last month of March. Mostly baggers are taken to these shelter homes so that they cannot sit on roads and they will get food from the different social organizations. Because of the dargah there are more destitute people remain in Ajmer and therefore district administration has to make these shelter homes.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ajmer/infected-man-had-tested-negative-twice/articleshow/75189918.cms||---
April 17, 2020||Trichy||Trichy: Cops on vigil to prevent domestic violence during lockdown||TRICHY: Unconfirmed reports of women being subjected to violence and harassment at home during the Covid-19 lockdown have pushed Trichy range police to embark on a move to keep a tab on around 15,000 victims of domestic violence in five districts in the past to check whether they still suffer in silence. A couple of weeks into lockdown since April 24, social media were abuzz with messages regarding harassments against women from their husbands and in-laws. Though the messages were laced with humorous memes, Trichy range police took it on a serious note and jumped into action few days ago. Police said that there may be incidents of alcohol addicts venting their anger towards women due to the unavailability of liquor. There could be several reasons for the angry outburst of the men towards women. They may not come to light owing to the abnormal situation right now. Police pulled out files of 14,930 domestic violence cases from 2017 till March 2020 in the jurisdiction of 15 All-women police stations (AWPS) in Trichy, Pudukottai, Karur, Perambalur and Ariyalur. They got cracking the cases wasting no time. Most of them were solved cases. “One of the reasons of taking this task is the messages of domestic violence during the lockdown. Whether it is true or not, we want to verify it by calling the victims directly,” deputy inspector general (DIG) of police V Balakrishnan told ToI. Police personnel in the 15 AWPS police stations were given the task of calling up the woman complainants and check with them whether they have any issues related to domestic violence from husband and in-laws. The DIG also said, “People, especially women are not coming out during the lockdown. If we call them, the victims will gain confidence and perpetrators may have a sense of fear.” Police personnel have been told to handle the issue carefully so that it does not create any fresh trouble to the women in the family. They have prepared a questionnaire including general verification questions about Covid-19 prevention measures such as wearing mask, social distancing and questions about domestic violence. “We are very clear that our effort will not affect the harmony in the family,” he said citing harsh reactions from some victims. The victims will also be asked to answer if the lockdown period caused any rift between the husband and wife. They will also be advised to contact medical helpline 104 and 108 in case of any medical need related to Covid-19 or any other health issues. Police would also ask whether they need any police protection while stepping out. For those who are not picking the calls, police will go to the address and check with them casually. “In case of any issues, we will take legal action against the perpetrators,” said the DIG. Appreciating the proactive move, lawyer T Jayanthi Rani suggested police to check with the women whether there is any child sex abuse. “There may be cases of child sex abuses by the perverts in the house. The lockdown may have aggravated their perversion. Women may be afraid of revealing it,” said Jayanthi Ranee.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/cops-on-vigil-to-prevent-domestic-violence-during-lockdown/articleshow/75189920.cms||---
April 17, 2020||Nagpur||Floriculture biz in Vidarbha wilts as lockdown continues||Nagpur: With no marriages, no social gatherings, temples closed and ban on religious congregations, lockdown has dealt a big blow to floriculturists in the region. The situation has gone from bad to worse in the last one month so much so that some farmers are even taking to sleeping pills to ease tension, while some are contemplating to go for alternative crops. “Our real season starts with Marathi traditional New Year Gudi Padwa followed by religious festivals like Ram Navami, Mahavir Jayanti and Hanuman Jayanti and continues till June with marriages. Huge business was lost due to cancellation of shobhayatras. Ambedkar Jayanti too was a low-key affair,” says Dhanraj Selokar, who does farming on a two-hectare land in Tarsa village. Selokar, who also owns a shop at Ram Nagar, said, “Flowers not being an essential commodity are not allowed to be transported during the lockdown. Hence, my shop is closed, but I have to pay wages to my men working at the shop and farm.” Nagpur is a major flower market in Vidarbha with a daily turnover of Rs60-70 lakh. At least 600 acre of farm land is under open flower farming in the district. Besides, variety of flowers arrive from Bengaluru, Hyderabad, Nanded, Nashik, Pune and other big cities. Sanjay Sharma, a leading floriculturist having a big nursery in Akola, said, “Apart from religious functions, our major source of income is ‘mandap’ and stage decoration during weddings. The worst part is that many farmers, who also own shops, had to refund the advance taken from customers for mandap decoration works to be held in April, May and June. Now, new dates for marriages are slated in November and December only.” The flowers grown in the region are mainly marigold, rose, tuberose, chrysanthemum, gladioli, aster, jasmine, kagda, mogra, gerbera, carnation etc. Akola alone has a daily floriculture trade of Rs25-30 lakh. Around 500 acre in the district is under floriculture, but entire produce is wilting. Progressive farmer Suresh Fulari of Patur says due to heavy losses, floriculturists are even thinking of shifting to alternative horticulture farming. It took 20-25 years for farmers to develop this business in the region, but it was shattered in a month due to coronavirus. Thousands of workers dependent on the trade have been rendered jobless. Farmers like Rajan Yelne, who has a 5-acre flower farm in Wadoda on Bhandara Road, has started consuming sleeping pills to ease tension. “My labourers are plucking flowers and throwing them in pits. I have to pay wages to them without earning a single rupee. My bank balance has gone down. I had to compromise with these men by way of barter by offering them rice produced in my farm,” says Yelne. Rajesh Taywade, a farmer from Wakeshwar, said, “For the last one month, flowers are plucked only to be thrown as there is no demand due to lockdown. If we don’t pluck ripe flowers, entire plantation will die. There is zero income, but maintenance cost continues to be as usual. Even if mandis open from April 20 as per state orders, our losses will continue as temples will remain closed and marriages will remain suspended. It will give partial relief and we will be able to meet at least the labour cost.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/floriculture-biz-in-vidarbha-wilts-as-lockdown-continues/articleshow/75189108.cms||Vijay Pinjarkar
April 17, 2020||Jaipur||IAS officer fines MLA’s driver, transferred||Jaipur: IAS officer Tejasvi Rana, who was posted as SDO Chittorgarh, was given marching orders a day after she fined the driver of the vehicle carrying Begun Congress MLA Rajendra Bhiduri on April 14. The transfer has raised eyebrows as Rana was transferred out of Chittorgarh to the post of joint director at state health assurance authority in Jaipur the very next day on Wednesday night. Bhiduri however claimed that he had no role in the transfer of the officer. Talking to TOI over phone, Bhiduri said he was on his way to his constituency in the vehicle of a party worker. The officer and DSP stopped his vehicle and asked the driver to produce the driving licence. He said his driver did not have the licence at that time. The MLA claimed that he paid the fine and the officers were very polite. He said, “I don’t know the reason for the transfer. But on my part, I have not made any complaint to anyone. They were doing their duty. I have appreciated the officers who had been in the field and fighting Covid-19 from the front. He said while all the neighbouring districts of Chittorgarh were fighting the pandemic, it was due to the hard work of these officers who executed the lockdown very effectively. He said no one is above law and they have only done their duty.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/ias-officer-fines-mlas-driver-transferred/articleshow/75189928.cms||---
April 17, 2020||Mangaluru||Case against SDPI members||Mangaluru: Police have booked a case against members of Social Democratic Party of India (SDPI) for spraying chemicals to prevent the spread of diseases in Sajipamooda villages of Bantwal taluk. Police sources said that case has been booked following a complaint by Sajipamooda GP authorities. “A case has been booked against Yousuf Haladi, Saleem Haladi, Malik Kalayi and others for spraying chemicals based on a complaint by the GP officials. According to SDPI Dakshina Kannada district unit, their members had sprayed phenyl to prevent the spread of coronavirus. Accordingly, phenyl was sprayed on roads and the premises of houses to keep the villages sanitised. However, the case against our members is politically motivated, said SDPI DK district vice-president Iqbal I M R adding that they will face the case and also stage a protest against it. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mangaluru/case-against-sdpi-members/articleshow/75187847.cms||---
April 17, 2020||Kolhapur||Rs 1.18L recovered in fine from over 500 motorcyclists||Kolhapur: City police, continuing their action against those violating the lockdown by stepping out of their homes for no valid reason, seized as many as 528 two-wheelers and collected Rs 1.18 lakh as fine."Despite our appeal that people should stay home and come out only if they really have to, people continue to defy our orders. We have issued instructions to all police stations to not spare anyone found violating the lockdown and seize their vehicles. We expect that our strict action will help us in preventing people from stepping out of their home. It is necessary for people to stay indoors to prevent the spread of coronavirus pandemic," a senior police officer said.At 56 Laxmipuri police seized the maximum number of two-wheelers followed by Karveer (50), Jaysingpur (45), Kodoli and Ichalkaranji (34 each), Shirol (26), Juan Rajwada (23), Gandhinagar and Kagal (22 each), Bhudargad (18), Radhanagari (17), Kale (16), Hupari and Kurundwad (15 each), Shahuwad, Murgud and Wadgaon (13 each), Hatkanangle (11), Gokul Shirgaon (10), Shahupuri (8), Nesari (6) and Shiroli MIDC (2).||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolhapur/rs-1-18l-recovered-in-fine-from-over-500-motorcyclists/articleshow/75190478.cms||---
April 17, 2020||Chandigarh||Delivery boys, vendors, sanitation workers to be medically examined||Chandigarh: A day after Chandigarh was declared a hotspot district, UT administrator VP Singh Badnore directed the municipal corporation commissioner to ensure all of the civic body staff, including vendors, drivers and sanitation workers, among others, were medically examined, sanitized and provided with safety gears, as they were interacting with residents frequently. He also directed that all the online home delivery agencies should be directed to follow similar measures, failing which their permissions be cancelled.The administrator directed the UT DGP to intensify checking on the city’s borders and ensure that only the pass-holders and authorized persons were allowed to enter the city. He told the deputy commissioner that there was no shortage of packed food for the poor and its distribution should be done in a fair manner. In a meeting with the PGI director and chiefs of medical institutions, the administrator expressed satisfaction that the number of positive cases has not increased. He advised them to explore the possibility of procuring/utilizing rapid testing facility as per the Indian Council of Medical Research guidelines.During the review meeting, UT finance secretary AK Sinha said though the last date for payment of power and water bills has been extended, necessary arrangements were being made, so that those willing could make online payments from home by downloading the application.Pb, Hry asked to run UT offices with minimal staffUT adviser Manoj Parida said he has discussed with Punjab and Haryana governments to run their offices in Chandigarh with minimal staff, as the entire city had been declared a hotspot district and was under curfew. He also appealed to the city residents to strictly follow the administration instructions of staying indoors and following hygienic habits of washing hands and wearing masks.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/delivery-boys-vendors-sanitation-workers-to-be-medically-examined/articleshow/75189109.cms||Rajinder Nagarkoti
April 17, 2020||Nagpur||2 more Covid +ve in Nagpur, Vidarbha cases now at 113||Nagpur: Samples of two suspects admitted in one of the institutional quarantine facilities in Nagpur tested positive for Covid-19 on Thursday taking the total number of coronavirus cases in Nagpur to 58, including one death. Total 11 patients have recovered and discharged till date. Civil surgeon Dr Devendra Paturkar confirmed that two persons were tested positive. “Both the persons from the city were already under institutional quarantine,” he said. One of the two positives is a 25-year-old youth, a resident of Gittikhadan. He had gone to Ajmer Sharif and returned via Delhi. Another person is a 61-year-old man from Kanhan. He too has Delhi travel history. Both were traced and quarantined on April 2 as they were among the digital footprints of single source in Delhi. Though both the new patients were already in the quarantine facility, but now authorities will trace their close high risk contacts. Active surveillance will start at both the locations — Gittikhadan and Kanhan — from Friday. Apart from the two cases in Nagpur, no other place in Vidarbha reported any confirmed Covid-19 case on Thursday. Total 70 samples were tested at the AIIMS laboratory. These include 41 from Yavatmal and 29 from Amravati. Total 68 of them tested negative. Two samples, one each from Yavatmal and Amravati, were rejected due to improper collection. GMCH laboratory tested 32 samples from Gondia and Bhandara. All tested negative. The IGGMCH laboratory tested 68 samples on Thursday from Nagpur city and district. Most of them were of the people who have been kept in the institutional quarantine facility at Ravi Bhavan. Except two of them, all tested negative. MAFSU laboratory started testing 46 samples from Wardha, but results were pending. Migrants run away from Patur: About 30 youths from Telangana, who were staying in shelter facility in Patur town of Akola district, allegedly ran away from the facility on Thursday. District collector Jitendra Papalkar said these were not Covid-19 suspects, but migrant labourers. “They were staying in Maulana Azad Bhavan from March 30. Most of them are young boys desperate to go their hometowns. We are searching for them,” he said. Patur is a place from where seven men had tested positive for Covid-19 on April 9. 118 negative in Yavatmal: April 16 was a promising day for Yavatmal as 118 swab samples tested negative. Twenty-six persons have been discharged and home quarantined for 14 days. Though 118 persons have tested negative, 13 swab samples would be sent again for a second opinion. Today, only three persons were admitted to the isolation wards which takes the total number of isolated persons to 75. Also, 136 swabs have been sent to Nagpur on Thursday. There are 152 persons in home quarantine and 104 have been placed in institutional quarantine so far. The 10 positive patients in the isolation wards are stable and their health condition is satisfactory, informed district collector MD Singh. From Amravati, 465 samples have been sent for testing till date. Out of these, 358 have tested negative and 39 were rejected because of improper collection. The administration has decided to recollect 32 of them and send again for testing. Total 63 reports are pending. In Chandrapur, 65 samples have been collected and 50 of them have been tested negative so far. Results for remaining 15 are pending.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/2-more-covid-ve-in-nagpur-vidarbha-cases-now-at-113/articleshow/75189122.cms||Chaitanya Deshpande
April 17, 2020||Jaipur||Congress to strengthen ‘Janta Rasoi’ in every district: Rajasthan deputy CM Sachin Pilot||JAIPUR: Deputy chief minister and PCC president Sachin Pilot on Thursday asked the district Congress chiefs to strengthen ‘Janta Rasoi’ to feed people who are unable to find a living in this lockdown period. He gave the direction during an interaction with the district chiefs while reviewing the relief work carried out by the party. Pilot said partymen must try to reach out to the deprived who are in need of help at this hour of crisis. He said while distributing food packets to the needy, it was also important to take care of animals. Fodder and water to animals must be ensured, he said. Pilot said the summer has begun and it was necessary to ensure water to humans and livestock population. He said with the help of philanthropists, Janta Rasoi has been feeding people who have no access to food. He said as per the guidelines of the central government, NREGA work would be restarted in the state with compliance of social distancing. He said this would give employment to the rural poor. Pilot said Rajasthanis from different districts are currently stranded in other states and the government was trying to bring them back. He asked the leaders to make provision for food, shelter and medical facilities in coordination with the administration. He said the party at its levels are contacting respective PCCs to provide relief to the stranded Rajasthanis in other states to ensure food and other facilities to them.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/cong-to-strengthen-janta-rasoi-in-every-dist-pilot/articleshow/75189934.cms||---
April 17, 2020||Goa||State borrows to pay salaries, buthas money for Rs 35L car for CM||Panaji: A cash-strapped state government has come out with new guidelines that allows the chief minister and the speaker to purchase any vehicle with a price ceiling of Rs 35 lakh, an increase of Rs 15 lakh from the earlier upper limit that was fixed in 2017. Top sources said the government intends to buy a luxurious seven-seater multi-purpose vehicle for chief minister Pramod Sawant that costs around Rs 35 lakh. The state, which is reeling under Rs 18,000-crore burden with each Goan carrying a per capita debt of Rs 1.5 lakh, borrows Rs 100 crore every fortnight to meet its expenses, including salaries. Senior officials said even salaries of staff for certain grant-in-aid schools and contract staff at the government hospitals were delayed to show a positive treasury balance at the close of the financial year. It is not just the CM and the speaker, but ministers, deputy speaker, leader of opposition, advocate general and chairpersons of commission and those with cabinet rank can now buy a car of a value up to Rs 30 lakh. The guidelines have been revised in view of rise in prices of vehicles and utility aspects of vehicles, stated a memorandum issued by the finance department on March 13. It is not just the politicians and political appointees, but even the bureaucrats have got a windfall. Revised guidelines permit the chief secretary or the chairperson of the government-owned corporations or autonomous bodies to buy a car with an upper limit of Rs 20 lakh. With nearly half of the revenue generated by the state going to pay committed expenditure such as salaries and other administrative costs, the government finds it extremely difficult to fulfil more than 70% of the budget expenditure, said government officials. In his 2020 budget speech, chief minister Pramod Sawant, who also hold the finance portfolio, had highlighted the financial constraints and said 36.9% of the state’s earnings go towards salaries, wages, pension, gratuity and grant-in-aid; 2% goes towards subsidies and 12.7% towards debt repayment. The Rs 100-crore that the state borrows every fortnight is to meet its expenditure requirements and on rare occasions it even borrows to meet revenue expenditure. A top government official said allowing purchase of vehicles of higher value to ministers and others at this stage is obscene, since state’s economy is struggling. “A few days ago, the government constituted a three-member committee under the chief secretary to curtail expenses. It needs to be seen if it suggests a ban on purchase of new vehicles,” he said. “On one hand the government talks about taking austerity measures, but on other it issues orders that give scope for expenses on unimportant heads. The option of hiring vehicles is always open if government is genuinely interested in cutting unwarranted expenses,” said another official. “With tourism sector being badly affecting due to Covid-19 pandemic, tourist taxi owners will be out of job. Tourists taxis can be hired for government use,” he suggested. (With inputs from Newton Sequeira)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/state-borrows-to-pay-salaries-buthas-money-for-rs-35l-car-for-cm/articleshow/75190470.cms||Bindiya Chari
April 17, 2020||Nagpur||Plans to hire nearly 900 docs, other health workers in division||Nagpur: Apparently preparing for spread of Covid-19, the state Health Department is recruiting nearly 900 doctors, 2,400 nurses, 900 ward boys, 200 plus technicians, managers, and entire lot of health workers in Nagpur division on a war footing.The recruitment advertisement was published on Thursday and last date for online application is April 19 (Sunday). These doctors and medical staffers will work at Covid care centres, dedicated Covid health centres and dedicated Covid hospitals. All recruitments will be on contract basis on fixed payments and no other perks. Period of recruitment will be only up to the Covid-19 pandemic. This period is not specified in the ad. An MBBS doctor will get Rs 60,000; AYUSH doctor will get Rs 30,000 while nurses will get Rs 20,000 monthly as emolument. Ward Boys will get Rs 400 per day. Dr Sanjay Jaiswal, divisional deputy director (health Services), said that the recruitments were for Nagpur, Bhandara, Gondia, Gadchiroli and Chandrapur districts. Recently retired employees of health department will get preference.The first and foremost condition is that they must not have diabetes, hypertension, and other such ailments. “We will follow social distancing in this recruitment process. Applications will be accepted only by emails and merit lists will be published on health department website. There will be no interview. All selected candidates will be informed by email and on phone,” he said. Owing to ban on inter-district travelling, the appointments will be given within the districts. Even before official announcement, this recruitment drive invited mixed reactions from medical fraternity. “There are medical professionals who wish to render their services in this time of crisis. This recruitment will be a good opportunity for such people,” said Dr Sanjay Deshpande of State IMA. “But they want an MD Medicine with experience at Rs 75,000 fixed payment until the pandemic lasts. If this is special recruitment and government seriously wishes doctors to join, it should make pay package attractive,” he added. Homeopathic doctors have raised objection as the advertisement doesn’t say if they can also apply in AYUSH category. “There are more than 73,000 homoeopathic doctors in Maharashtra. The ad has specifically mentioned Ayurveda and Unani doctors can apply but there is no mention of homeopathy,” said Dr Manish Patil of Orange City Homeopaths Association. However, health officials later clarified that homeopathic doctors can also apply as they are integral part of AYUSH medicine. Recruitment drive Physician (MD Medicine) | 69Anaesthetist (Degree in Anaesthesia | 36Medical Officers (MBBS) | 339AYUSH Medical Officers (BAMS/BUMS) | 452Hospital manager (MBA) | 141Nurses (B.Sc. Nursing) | 2445X Ray Technicians (Retired technicians) | 43ECG Technicians (BSC and diploma) | 42Lab technicians (BSC DMLT) | 152Pharmacists (D Pharm/B Pharm) | 183Ward Boys (SSC) | 939||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/plans-to-hire-nearly-900-docs-other-health-workers-in-division/articleshow/75189105.cms||Chaitanya Deshpande
April 17, 2020||Goa||Goa: Economic impact report on April 20||PANAJI: The economic revival committee has been asked to prepare a preliminary report and submit it to the government by April 20, government sources said. Officials said that the committee has been asked to identify the impact of the lockdown on industry and suggest measures to revive Goa’s economy. The economic revival committee met for the first time on Wednesday where industrialist Shivanand Salgaocar was named chairman and technocrat Nitin Kunkolienker was appointed vice chairman. The meeting which was chaired by chief minister Pramod Sawant, went on for nearly two hours, and feedback was sought from every sector. “Reports on agriculture, mining, housing, tourism, industry and banking have been sought in four days,” said an official who was present for the meeting.Chief secretary Parimal Rai was also present for the meeting.  “Each sector has to give a report to the committee on how to reduce the impact of the lockdown on the industry. The focus is on how to make investments grow and how to take advantage of this situation to clean up the system,” said another official who attended the meeting. The State Bank of India has been asked to initiate deliberations with all the banks in the state to coordinate the efforts of the finance sector.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/economic-impact-report-on-april-20/articleshow/75169955.cms||---
April 17, 2020||Nagpur||Mistaking Covid survey for NPR, father-son duo beat up NMC official||Nagpur: An NMC health official who was conducting Covid-19 survey in Bhankheda area was allegedly neaten up and abused by a father-son duo who suspected he was conducting a survey for National Population Register (NPR).Satyendra Chandankhede, 42, a health official at NMC, sustained minor injuries in the attack. Tehsil police have registered a case of assault and obstructing a government official from discharging his duty. The accused have been identified as Abdul Rafiq and his son Mohd Shafi Abdul.According to police, Chandankhede, along with 10 to 11 team members were conducting the survey in high risk containment zone when the accused came and accused them of collecting information for the NPR and National Register of Citizens (NCR). Though Chandankhede told the accused the survey was for Covid-19, they started abusing the official.Earlier, a Covid-19 positive patient was found in Timki area leading to several areas in Mominpura and nearby places being made containment zone. NMC officials had been conducting the survey to find out any suspected case in this high risk areas.Even earlier, TOI had reported NMC officials being targeted while conducting surveys in Timki area near Bhankheda. A few days back, a woman Asha worker was also abused and heckled while she conducting the Covid-19 survey. Sources said the NMC officials in some specific areas are afraid to ask questions as they fear the residents will attack them.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/mistaking-covid-survey-for-npr-father-son-duo-beat-up-nmc-official/articleshow/75189127.cms||---
April 17, 2020||Hyderabad||MLA’s brother booked for meet||HYDERABAD: TRS MLA of Amberpet Kaleru Venkatesh’s brother Kaleru Suresh was booked by Rachakonda police for holding a meeting. Suresh, sarpanch of Edulabad village under Ghatkesar police station limits, held a meeting at gram panchayat office on Wednesday. “He violated the lockdown rule and no social distancing was followed. Over 50 persons had gathered there,” said Ghatkesar police. A case was filed under Sections 188 (disobedience to order duly promulgated by public servant) and 269 (negligent act likely to spread infection of disease dangerous to life) of IPC.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/mlas-brotherbooked-for-meet/articleshow/75189953.cms||---
April 17, 2020||Aurangabad||Gurdwara pilgrims’ health being monitored||Aurangabad: Nanded district has not reported any Covid-19 case so far, but the district administration is grappling with the tough task of monitoring the health of 3,755 pilgrims stranded at the Gurdwara Hazur Sahib, one of the holiest places for Sikhs. According to the health authorities, the pilgrims, mainly from north India, are stranded at the gurdwara due to the extended lockdown. “All the pilgrims have been housed in a residential facility at the shrine and the social distancing norm is being followed.” Nanded is one of the holiest places for the Sikh community because it is here that Guru Gobind Singhji, the tenth of the 11 Sikh Gurus, had held his final congregation. The place is visited by a large number of pilgrims throughout the year. Nanded Municipal Corporation health officer Suresh Singh Bisen on Wednesday said that the health check-up of all the people stranded at the gurdwara is being carried out on a regular basis. “The Nanded gurdwara has many multi-storey buildings, where all the stranded visitors have been told to stay. Only two people have been allowed stay in one room. All of them have been asked to strictly follow the social distancing norm. The visitors are asked to take extra precautions while coughing and sneezing,” he said. The local civic body has formed four special teams of experts, which conduct the screening of all the pilgrims, once in three days, at the gurdwara. The shrine management has been providing food and other essential things to the devotees. The food is provided through ‘langar’ — a community kitchen run by Sikhs. Harjeet Singh Gadhewal, one of the management authorities at the gurdwara, said the stranded pilgrims hail from Punjab, Delhi and Haryana among other places. “We have sufficient accommodation facilities available for them. We are taking care of them from every aspect, including healthcare, with the help of government authorities,” he said. Senior officials from the district administration said several stranded people hail from places that fall on the route of trains originating or passing from Nanded. “The crisis arising from the pandemic has unfolded in such a manner that the train connectivity has been snapped, forcing the devotees to stay back in Nanded,” added the officials.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/gurdwara-pilgrims-health-being-monitored/articleshow/75169023.cms||---
April 17, 2020||Kolhapur||Start testing lab in Kolhapur by April 20: District collector||Kolhapur: District collector Daulat Desai on Thursday instructed the health department, zilla parishad and civic officials to start the functioning of the Covid-19 laboratory by April 20.The laboratory is likely to be set up at Rajarshi Chhatrapati Shahu Maharaj Government Medical College in Shenda Park area of the city.During a review meeting at the district collectorate on Thursday, Desai said that as per the Medical Education and Drugs Department’s instructions on April 15 a nod to set up the laboratory at the civil hospital has been given.Desai has instructed the officials concerned to start with the purchase order. The Microbiology department of the Chhatrapati Pramila Raje (CPR) hospital has been instructed to finalise the equipment required for the laboratory, while the Kolhapur zilla parishad’s CEO has been asked to complete the purchase order by April 18.The district civil surgeon and district health officer have been instructed to look after the transport and installation of the equipment. The resident deputy district collector and district planning officer have been asked to provide ample funds for completing the purchase.The dean of the medical college and head of the microbiology department should appoint the staff members for the lab and start with their training. The microbiology department head has also asked to look after the daily reports of the lab and the requirement of testing kits.All the officials have been asked to work on war footing for setting up set up the lab on the designated deadline.Border villages on high alertOwing to the rising number of Covid-19 infection in Belagavi region, the district collector has asked the officials from Chandgad, Gadhinglaj, Kagal, Hatkanagale, and Shirol talukas to be on high alert.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolhapur/start-testing-lab-in-kolhapur-by-april-20-district-collector/articleshow/75190483.cms||Piyush Bhusari
April 17, 2020||Visakhapatnam||Andhra Pradesh: Soapnut, tamarind to hit markets soon||VISAKHAPATNAM: Soapnut and tamarind are two of the most extensively sold minor forest products in north coastal AP. Though the two products are sold chiefly by private traders in AP, the Girijan Co-Operative Corporation (GCC) is also a major player. Tamarind and soapnut are usually sold by tribals during the summer and yield rich dividends as minor forest produce (MFP). However this year, the stringent measures imposed due to the threat posed by Covid-19 has ensured that there has been little of the two products to purchase in the markets. According to forest department estimates, the total extent of soapnut and tamarind in the four districts cannot be estimated as they are not grown as plantation crops. However, conservative estimates peg the average yield at 10,000 metric tonnes for tamarind, from just these four districts. The ITDA authorities have conducted a series of talks with traders associations to allow the transport of MFP from the agency and added that more permits would be given, a few days from now. In Vizianagaram district, Parvathipuram division accounts for much of the trade. The district administration has however made it clear that they would provide the much needed permits to transport the produce. “We are witnessing a disciplined approach towards marketing of produce and this is definitely a healthy trend,” said M Hari Jawahar Lal, district collector. Lakkavarapu Srinivasa Chetty, one of the major MFP traders in the region, however noted, “The development is good, but the produce will not be transported overnight, we are talking about a few hundred truckloads, moving out of the agency tracts.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/visakhapatnam/soapnut-tamarind-to-hit-markets-soon/articleshow/75187915.cms||Venkatesh Bayya
April 17, 2020||Goa||As monsoon nears, clogged nullahs of Tar river in focus again||PANAJI: Huge quantities of mud at the mouth of a nullah blocking the flow of rain water into the Tar river at Mapusa will be removed to desilt this important link before the onset of the monsoon. The water resource department (WRD) has also agreed to desilt the nullah from Khorlim to the Mapusa bus stand at Morod at the earliest. Officials of the Mapusa Municipal Council including chief officer Clen Madeira and MMC engineers Vyankatesh Sawant and Nadeem Shaikh, along with WRD assistant engineer Ganpat Raikar and joint engineer Mallikarjun recently held a joint inspection at Gaunsavado, where an illegal landfill is blocking age-old water channels and one nullah that drains out into the Tar. Alleging similar illegal land fillings at various other locations along the NH 66, Madeira, in a recent letter to the North Goa collector said, “The full stretch of the river has to be desilted on a war footing to increase the catchment area for smoother discharge of rain water.” MMC had urged the collector to pursue the desilting of the river - the main source for rain water discharge from Mapusa’s outlying areas - under provisions of the National Disaster Management Act, 2005, to avert flooding during monsoon. The fields from Socorro to Guirim and from Bastora towards Parra have been witnessing flooding during extreme weather events. Last year, the flood waters had submerged the low-lying areas for several days. With WRD agreeing to clear only the mouth of the nullah, the government faces an uphill task in clearing all the debris. Officials said the collector’s office would have to examine the issue and explore the possibility of getting debris removed by land owners.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/as-monsoon-nears-clogged-nullahs-of-tar-river-in-focus-again/articleshow/75334815.cms||---
April 17, 2020||Nagpur||Lockdown separates mothers and daughters across the border||Nagpur: “There is no problem as such, my daughter is safe with my husband in Aurangabad, but then I am longing to be with her,” says Amarta Haswani before breaking down. The lockdown has left Amarta stranded at Jarwar town in Sindh province of Pakistan while her four-year-old daughter remains in India. Amarta reached Pakistan on March 10 and planned to return to India in 10 days after attending her brother’s marriage. The borders were sealed during this period. Her daughter needs medical attention, which includes administering injections. “ I am managing but after all there can be no alternative to mother’s care,” her husband Sunil tells TOI from Aurangabad.The international borders too have been sealed after the lockdown to contain spread of Covid-19. This has left a number of Indians, especially Hindus from Sindh living in India on long term visas (LTV), held up in Pakistan. While on LTV, they can make brief visits to Pakistan on No Objection Return to India (NORI) visas which are valid for three months. TOI had on April 4 reported about their condition after being stranded in Pakistan. At that time, like in India it was also expected in Pakistan that the lockdown may be lifted after April 14, and borders may open too. Their hopes have dashed due to extension of lockdown.As many as 36 of the Sindhi Hindus in India are from Nagpur. The biggest worry for most of them is that they may lose the chance to get citizenship under CAA if their stay exceeds three months under NORI visa. The earlier period which qualified them for CAA will not be counted then.Meanwhile, Pakistan has facilitated the return of its 180 citizens who were stranded in India.“I made several calls to the Indian embassy at Islamabad but none picked up,” says Amarta. Her husband was already staying on LTV in India as she joined him after marriage eight years ago.TOI came across one more case of a mother being separated from her daughter across the border due to the lockdown. Chanda Mandar and her husband are in Shikarpur city of Sindh, where they had gone to attend a marriage leaving their two-year-old daughter behind because she did not have a passport. The toddler is now in the care of Chanda’s in-laws in Jalgaon.“She is comfortable because my relatives are there but we are missing her. I am feeling bad about having left her in India. wish she was with us,” says Chanda. An official at the Indian embassy’s helpline said there was no travel advisory received yet. “If their NORI visas were ending they can apply for a fresh one,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/lockdown-separates-mothers-and-daughters-across-the-border/articleshow/75189131.cms||Shishir Arya
April 17, 2020||Nagpur||Rumours of 10 +ve cases, saliva smeared currency do the rounds||Nagpur: City police cyber cell, focusing on creating awareness, seems to be lagging behind enforcing the law against fake news creators, and rumour and hate speech mongers.On Thursday, city reeled under the fear of high numbers of Covid-19 patients after a message started doing the rounds on social media that there 11 more had tested positive. Panicked citizens started making frantic calls to media houses and other possible sources to get confirmation. Though the official data of Nagpur remained at 56, the fake message showed it to be 66, creating confusion and chaos.It’s learnt that the message which triggered the panic looked similar to the press releases issued by the government website. Though it clarifies that it is an unofficial message, a large chunk of the population panicked as it went viral in different groups. City police cyber cell in-charge DCP Shweta Khedkar said she would look into the matter. In another incident of rumour mongering in east Nagpur, citizens were left bamboozled after misinformation about substantial currency notes being found at Yogeshwar Nagar went around in social media. It’s learnt that there was a rumour that someone had left the currency on the street after smearing them with saliva.Senior PI Bapu Dhere of Wathoda police station said there were only five currency notes of Rs10 strewn on the road near a turning, which were seized by the cops, but no more details could be gathered.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/rumours-of-10-ve-cases-saliva-smeared-currency-do-the-rounds/articleshow/75189144.cms||Soumitra Bose
April 17, 2020||Chandigarh||Bat coronavirus: Chandigarh's Chhatbir Zoo keeps eye on flying mammals’ colony||MOHALI: Two days after a study by the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) — which found the presence of a different kind of coronavirus (bat coronavirus: BtCoV) — was published, the management of Chhatbir zoo has decided to test every dead bat. Chhatbir zoo has a full colony of fruit bats, who have been put under a watch now, said zoo field director M Sudhagar. He said, “At present, we have no evidence of bats here having coronavirus. But these bats generally are immune to many viruses and bacteria, which they carry inside their bodies. So, it has been decided not to take any chances and test every dead bat. We will not disturb their natural habitat, and conduct test only if a dead bat is found. An order to keep a strict vigil on the bats’ colony at zoo has been issued to the caretaker. The Punjab wildlife department will write to Panjab University to inform if they also find any dead bat at a small colony on the campus.” The authorities sat up and took note after news reports were recently published, saying that as the world grapples with the coronavirus pandemic, researchers have found presence of a different kind of coronavirus — bat coronavirus (BtCoV) — in two species from Kerala, Himachal Pradesh, Puducherry and Tamil Nadu. This was a first of its kind study by the Indian Council of Medical Research, whose researchers discovered the viruses while surveying bats in Myanmar as part of a government-funded programme called PREDICT to identify infectious diseases that have the potential to hop from animals to humans. And bats are prime suspects, as the flying mammals are thought to host thousands of yet-to-be-discovered coronaviruses. It is also being presumed that the Covid-19 virus emerged from the bats in China, which were reportedly consumed by people after which they got infected.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/bat-coronavirus-chhatbir-keeps-eye-on-flying-mammals-colony/articleshow/75189129.cms||Barinderjit Saluja
April 17, 2020||Hyderabad||Time for a new paradigm of swadeshi||Swadeshi at the time of Independence struggle became a socio-economic movement. It was commonly understood by most people as boycotting foreign goods and encouraging the use of products made in India. It was Mahatma Gandhi, who had given the most comprehensive interpretation to the construct of swadeshi. According to him, swadeshi had three dimensions -- religious, political and economic. Gandhi ji preferred ancestral religion, indigenous institutions and decentralised local production processes to explain the doctrine of swadeshi. As an integral part of swadeshi, he advanced the cause of ‘gram swarajya’. Despite having such an iconic blueprint of swadeshi, we as a nation rarely encouraged our religion, indigenous institutions and economic instruments of growth post independence in an effective manner. Swadeshi began to be interpreted as ‘self-reliance’. It got subsumed by globalisation and remained mostly confined to ‘import substitution’. Even this limited perspective could not really take off at that time due to prevailing environment of permit, quota and licence regime. Most of our resources were spent on import of petroleum products as we were slow to harness new and renewable energy resources. Thus, swadeshi in the backdrop of globalisation became an object of symbolism and remained confined to occasional demonstration and use of ‘spinning wheel’. In its latest avatar, swadeshi had taken birth as ‘Make in India’. Things were at the take off stage. Unfortunately, the wheel of progress had been temporarily halted by the current pandemic. As and when, we come out of Covid-19 crisis and, sure we will, the global economy will not be in the pink of its health. Even the current estimates hint at shrinking of global economy at least by three percent. Post pandemic, the world will have to transact its business for years to come in a different manner. The transition would also lead to a new global power equation. Countries with resilience will recover and cover the lost ground fast. The laggards will not take action and pay enormous social cost for their inertia. In fact, revival of the economy post Covid-19 will be a major challenge in India as well as elsewhere in the world. In this back ground, we have to as a nation, set up the agenda for revitalising our economy. There is hardly any section of society which did not get adversely impacted by this pandemic but its effect on workers in the unorganised sector, daily wage earners, micro, small and medium enterprises, domestic helps, construction workers, etc., had been disproportionate. “Never let a good crisis go waste,” said Winston Churchill in the aftermath of the Second World War. India needs to quickly put together its acts. This is going to be the golden opportunity for India to gain its rightful place in the comity of nations by following the mantra of swadeshi. This time, we should go beyond ‘charkha’ and need to encompass as many economic areas as possible. There are two probable emerging global economic scenarios. First is return of inward looking policies likely to be followed by major countries. They would tighten their domestic norms to prevent hostile take over. Second is likely withdrawal of production and R&D facilities from China by Western companies in near future. Both these scenarios open a window of opportunities for India. We are rightly focussing on skill development and start ups. However, the process needs to be hastened on the one hand, by forging partnerships between central and state governments and their agencies. On the other hand, new partnerships between academia-industry and public-private -not for profit sectors have to be forged. Let the concept of swadeshi come out of charkha and weave the yarn around international technologies companies in various economic sectors. We need to have a comprehensive swadeshi strategy to look beyond low end products to high end indigenous substitutes. Of course, ecosystem approach is going to be our main stay. India is capable of and has tremendous potential for generating wealth and employment through innovation. The first wave of swadeshi gave political independence, the second swadeshi wave should result in overall consolidation of our economy provided we nurture innovation. (This article is written by Dr SK Joshi. He is former chief secretary, Telangana)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/time-for-a-new-paradigm-of-swadeshi/articleshow/75189976.cms||---
April 17, 2020||Bengaluru||Novel RNA extraction kit developed||BENGALURU: In a breakthrough, Sree Chitra Tirunal Institute for Medical Sciences and Technology (SCTIMST) has developed a novel RNA extraction kit — Chitra Magna — an innovative technology to isolate RNA from Covid-19 test samples. Covid-19 is an RNA virus — a long single-stranded polymeric substance present in all living cells. RNA carries genetic information of the organism necessary for life. A critical step in detecting the virus is by confirming the presence of viral RNA in the sample taken from the throat or nose. The sample collected is transported under specific conditions to laboratories. “The protocol for the kit uses magnetic nanoparticles to capture and concentrate the RNA from the patient sample. This is of significant advantage because even if some viral RNA disintegrates during storage and transportation of the patient samples, all of it is captured by the magnetic bead-based extraction technology,” SCTIMST, an institution of national importance under the department of science and technology (DST), said. The magnetic nanoparticle beads bind to the viral RNA and, when exposed to a magnetic field, give a highly purified level of RNA. “As the yield of PCR or LAMP test is dependent on getting an adequate quantity of viral RNA, this innovation enhances the chances of identifying positive cases. The technology is simpler than in imported kits,” DST said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/novel-rna-extraction-kit-developed/articleshow/75333573.cms||---
April 17, 2020||Mysuru||Animals don’t transmit coronavirus, say experts||Mysuru: Rumours on social media that animals can transmit coronavirus to humans led to many people abandoning their pets. Veterinarians and experts, however, have urged pet owners to disregard such misinformation. Karnataka Veterinary Association president Dr S C Suresh, who is also the assistant director of Animal Husbandry and Veterinary Services, said pet owners need not panic. Dr Suresh said that Covid-19 and SARS are caused by the beta subfamily (type B) of coronavirus family, which is distinctly different from corona subfamily (alfa) that causes diseases in dogs, cats, pigs and cattle. “Therefore each type of coronavirus is host specific,” he said. Association vice-president Veerabadraiah said that the WHO has stated that so far there has been no incidences of companion animals acting as either source of infection or spreading Covid-19 to humans. AIMS, the premier medical institute in India, too has informed that there is no evidence of such spread of infection. “We appeal pet owners not to panic. Pets and companion animals -- whether on the streets or in houses -- are very safe and must be looked after. It is also safe to have them around,” he said, asking people to support animal welfare volunteers who are feeding and taking care of needy animals during this hour of crisis. Veerabadraiah also urged the pet owners to remain home confined and do not let their pets out. “Volunteers must take necessary precautions while on the field,” he said. Animal lover P R Sunil said due to some mischievous elements, some pet owners abandoned their pets on the streets. “I have seen some dogs having neck belts roaming the streets in panic. It is very disappointing,” he said. The closure of hotels and restaurants due to the lockdown has left stray animals, especially dogs, without food. Some animal welfare organisations have come to the rescue of strays.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mysuru/animals-dont-transmit-coronavirus-say-experts/articleshow/75148298.cms||Lakshmikantha BK
April 17, 2020||India||Financial, job and food crises looming, Cong warns Centre||Former Congress chief Rahul Gandhi on Thursday warned Prime Minister Narendra Modi against premature declaration of victory over coronavirus, saying the protracted fight has just begun, even as he urged the government to urgently prepare economic and food safety nets for the poor and the industry. He warned of a massive financial crisis, unemployment and food shortage for poor in the coming months. Addressing a press conference, Rahul Gandhi said the immediate attention should be on preparing the system for partial relaxing of lockdown on April 20. “A lockdown is like a pause button and is in no way a solution to the virus. When we come out of lockdown, the virus will start its work again. So, we need to have a strategy to come out of lockdown which only allows you time and space to ramp up medical resources and the architecture to fight the virus when it picks up again,” he said. Rahul added, “The opening should be strategic. If you open and you don’t do testing, you will be forced into lockdown again.” According to the Congress functionary, by April 20, the government should ensure that health system is “tip top”, adequate direct money reaches the 20% poorest, foodgrains are given to the poor including those without ration cards, and a plan for MSMEs is in place. Warning about what he called imminent food shortage among poor and “first wave of unemployment” which will only grow worse, he said, “Act pre-emptively.” He also cautioned, “Don’t use all your ammunition now or, we will end up with a serious financial backlash in 2-3 months.” Asked about PM Narendra Modi’s speech that India has managed the situation the best in the world, Rahul said India is a complicated country unlike other places. “The fight has just started and declaring victory will be misplaced. It is a long fight and we have to fight it systematically…. We should not be in the mindset of declaring victory. It should be to fight coronavirus till the late minute. Declaring premature victory can be fatal,” he said. Saying that testing was not enough and lacked strategy, he suggested, “You have to increase testing dramatically and move to random testing, so that you move from chasing the virus to being ahead of the virus. Push testing aggressively and use it strategically.” About migrant labourers, he urged the government to act quickly and with compassion. “If we don't act quickly, we will see social unrest developing very fast. And you cannot blame the people in this situation. If they are coming out, there is a valid reason because they are starving. So, you have to fix that reason.” To a question about “attacks on health workers from scared people of a community and appeals by celebrities”, Rahul said, “Testing will not hurt anyone .... India will have to be united in fighting this – forgetting caste, religion. Any fight on these issues will only weaken us.” “I may disagree with PM Modi on many things but today is not the time to fight, its time to unite and fight the virus. If we manage it together, it will put India in a much better place,” he said. Rahul prefaced his press meet by saying that it was to offer constructive criticism and suggestions to the government, which is the opposition’s duty. During the hour-long session, he refused to indulge questions about “lapses” that he had tweeted about earlier. He said the main fight against coronavirus was at state and district level and the PM should empower the chief ministers and act on their demands. “My suggestion is that the fight against corona be bottom up,” Rahul remarked. “The best line I have heard from experts is that Covid cannot be controlled, it has to be dynamically managed,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/financial-job-and-food-crises-looming-cong-warns-centre/articleshow/75190999.cms||---
April 17, 2020||Visakhapatnam||Turmeric farmers get new lease of life in Acency area||VISAKHAPATNAM: Even as tribal farmers who grow turmeric in the Acency areas worry that their crop may rot in the fields, ITDA is taking measures to ensure that the crops are harvested and sold in the open markets as well as through cooperative agencies such as GCC with aid from Tribal Cooperative Marketing Federation of India (TRIFED). The authorities have also provided traders the facility to register on a WhatsApp group to get permits by just giving their vehicle numbers. “Moving turmeric into the open markets was one of our main concerns. However, we have ensured that the crop grown in the Agency is made available to private traders. I have so far issued 40 transport permits to move the agriculture and horticulture produce from the Agency and almost half of the produce has been lifted,” said ITDA project officer D K Balaji. Speaking about other initiatives taken by ITDA, Balaji said that the authorities are ensuring that TRIFED purchases turmeric this year. “ Usually TRIFED purchases only minor forest produce. However, this year due to the Covid-19 threat, we have convinced them to include turmeric in the list,” he said, adding that GCC will be the local purchaser for TRIFED. The ITDA area in Vizag is one of the few places where organic turmeric is grown extensively. The area under cultivation in the Agency tracts is more than 18,000 acres, spread over six mandals.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/visakhapatnam/turmeric-farmers-get-new-lease-of-life/articleshow/75187959.cms||Venkatesh Bayya
April 17, 2020||Bhopal||Forest guards honoured on star tiger’s birthday in Panna||BHOPAL: During the ongoing coronavirus pandemic, Panna Tiger Reserve on Thursday celebrated the 10th birthday of its first tiger born after the relocation of a pair of big cats in 2009. The prized tiger, P111, born on April 16, 2010, is now considered the strongest among the big cats of Panna. Before March 6, 2009, when the tiger reintroduction programme was launched, there were no tigers left in the park, that is why two tigresses and a tiger were relocated in Panna. The tiger from Pench was code named T3 mated with T1 (the tigress brought from Bandhavgarh) and the first four cubs were born on April 16 , 2010. Only two of them - P111, the eldest and P112 - survived. “On this special day, a programme was launched to provide ration kits to the forest personnel manning 150 forest camps inside the park and guarding the jungle. Under ESMA, their leaves have been cancelled and they have been on duty inside the jungle for long,” said the director of the park, K S Bhadoria. Bhadoria added, “This year, we celebrated the occasion by visiting all the 150 jungle camps and saluting the staff for their dedication to wild animals and nature.” In normal circumstances, Panna would have witnessed a grand annual celebration on this day, including rallies and awareness campaigns, ensuring participation of the people of the city to relive the wonderful occasion, said Bhadoria and added, “Because of the Coronavirus lockdown, assembly of large number of people was not possible. So, we decided to celebrate the occasion in a different way.” R Sreenivasa Murthy, the then field director of the park when the tiger relocation programme was launched, said, “The best way to celebrate this occasion is by dedicating ourselves to nature and conservation.” After successful tiger relocation programme in Panna, the tiger population here has increased from zero to 55 in the national park.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/forest-guards-honoured-on-star-tigers-bday-in-panna/articleshow/75189146.cms||Deshdeep Saxena
April 17, 2020||Chandigarh||Seven family members of Panchkula Sector 15 woman test positive||PANCHKULA: Seven of the family members of a Covid-19-positive 44-year-old woman of Sector 15, Panchkula, have also contracted the disease, said Sector 6 civil hospital chief medical officer Jasjeet Kaur. The woman had tested positive on Tuesday. While revealing their names, the administration has asked those who came in contact with the family between April 6 and April 11 to get themselves tested for Covid-19 at Sector 6 civil hospital. The reports of her seven family members, who include a 75-year-old and a 10-year-old, came from PGI on Thursday morning. The news has spread panic in Sector 15. The administration is now tracing their contacts and has home quarantined 24 persons. Their contacts include a Sector 11 clinic; a doctor, who the 44-year-old woman visited on April 6; doctor’s family; his driver and a diagnostic centre staff. Sector 15 has been declared a containment zone and its adjoining sectors as buffer zone. Nobody is allowed to enter and exit the sector. DC M K Ahuja, said, “We are tracing their contacts. Some of them have been home quarantined and their tests are being conducted. Besides, door-to-door tests are being conducted in Sector 15 and nearby areas.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/7-family-members-of-pkl-sec-15-woman-test-positive/articleshow/75189147.cms||---
April 17, 2020||Nagpur||Minor daughters of two recovered patients test +ve again||NAGPUR: The minor daughters of two persons from Khamla and Jaripatka, who have recovered from Covid-19, again tested positive on Thursday and will be kept in isolation ward of Indira Gandhi Government Medical College and Hospital (IGGMCH), also known as Mayo Hospital, for the next 3-4 days. The worried fathers, despite allowed to get discharge a week ago, are staying back with the minors in the isolation ward. IGGMCH deputy medical superintendent Dr Sagar Pande told TOI that the latest samples of the two girls tested positive on Thursday. “Their samples will be tested again after a gap of three days,” he said. On whether the fathers are at a risk of contracting the infection again in the isolation ward, Dr Pande said, “They have developed antibodies, so there is nothing to worry. Nonetheless, we will take their samples too and test them before discharge,” he said. According to senior physician and intensivist Dr Nikhil Balankhe, the chances of the fathers again getting infected are very less as antibodies have developed in them. “They might not get infected immediately. I have learnt few persons in China have been infected for the second time, but after a long period,” he said. TOI had on April 14 reported about the decision of the two persons to stay back at the isolation ward until their daughters are discharged. Former corporator Prakash Totwani, who is following up all cases from Khamla and Jaripatka, told TOI, “The duo conveyed to me that their minor daughters got the infection from them, so they can’t think of going home. Even if they do, they will have to visit the hospital and take care of the girls’ requirements and health being their fathers,” he said. One person is manager at shop of the Khamla businessman who had tested positive on March 26. Another person is assistant at the same shop. Manager’s daughter is 16-year-old and assistant’s daughter is 12-year-old. The businessman and manager had travelled to New Delhi for purchasing products for the shop and returned by Telangana Express on March 17. Businessman and his mother, wife, son and daughter had fever so they went for check-up at IGGMCH on March 25. Excluding daughter, all were tested positive on March 26. All four were discharged on April 10 and 11. Manager and assistant were taken for tests on March 26 and their family members on March 27. Manager and assistant have completed 22 days and their daughters 21 days. City’s 16th positive person, who is a lawyer and resident of Central Nagpur, is also undergoing treatment at IGGMCH and has completed 19 days. His latest samples tested positive on Thursday. He will have to wait for three more days for another sample test.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/minor-daughters-of-two-recovered-patients-test-ve-again/articleshow/75189153.cms||Anjaya Anparthi
April 17, 2020||Chandigarh||Sector 15 residents rue irregular delivery of essentials||Panchkula: Residents of Sector 15 alleged that there was no supply of vegetables and essential commodities in the area on Thursday. Shopkeepers demanded screening and testing before starting supply of essential items.The administration has assigned the task of delivering essential commodities to six departmental stores, whose phone numbers have been provided to residents. Residents can order ration on phone and delivery is conducted by Swiggy personnel and volunteers wearing masks, gloves and carrying sanitisers.Two supervisors, Balwinder Singh and Sunil Kumar can be contacted in case of problems. Their phone numbers are 9988515282 and 9988489058 respectively. However, area residents alleged that they felt harassed because of the poor system put in place by the administration. They said when they call shopkeepers, they refuse to deliver essential articles saying their tests and screening need to be done. Their employees must also be screened by health experts.S K Nayar, president, Citizen Welfare Association, Sector 15, said, “No fruit and vegetable vendor has come to the sector since yesterday. Milk and dairy products were delivered very late. The administration needs to streamline the process of door to door delivery as residents are suffering.” Welfare association members also demand screening and testing of departmental store owners before supply of goods is conducted. Residents also expressed concern about people roaming around on roads in cars and said this needs to be stopped at the earliest.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/sector-15-residents-rue-irregular-delivery-of-essentials/articleshow/75189152.cms||Arvind Bishnoi
April 17, 2020||Kolhapur||Coronavirus crisis set to take lustre off Akshay Tritiya||Kolhapur: The city is set to witness a low-key affair Akshay Tritiya on April 26 this year.People usually buy gold, new vehicles and even property on this auspicious day. But given the current crisis, high sales will not be possible this time. The day is also considered to be auspicious for weddings, but with the outbreak has put a halt on all social gatherings.Bharat Oswal, the president of Kolhapur District Jewellers’ Association, said, “Akshay Tritiya is an auspicious day when people go out to buy gold jewellery. We were expecting the government to relax some rules and allow certain business activities to start after April 20. But considering the stringent restrictions, the jewellery shops will remain close and we will miss some business opportunity on Akshay Tritiya this year.”“On an average, the city records business of around Rs 30 crore during Akshay Tritiya,” he said.Sachin Mali, a resident of Ujalaiwadi said, “Every year we visit jewellery shops on Akshay Tritiya and buy gold depending our financial capability. But this year, the tradition will be discontinued as all the shops will remain shut due to the lockdown and we are not allowed to step out of our houses apart from going out to get groceries.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolhapur/coronavirus-crisis-set-to-take-lustre-off-akshay-tritiya/articleshow/75190487.cms||---
April 17, 2020||Nagpur||Ngp, 2 Vid districts red zones; lockdown may not end on May 3||NAGPUR: Nagpur district with 58 Covid-19 positive cases, Buldana (21) and Yavatmal (13) have been identified as red zones — hotspot districts with large outbreaks — by the Union ministry of health and family welfare. Amravati (4 cases) has been identified as hotspot district with cluster outbreak while Akola (14), Gondia (1) and Washim (1) are among non-hotspot districts reporting cases. The classification has been done to focus attention on districts and cities reporting large number of cases or high growth rate. However, as compared to total cases in Mumbai (2,073) and Pune (463), the seven Covid-19 affected districts of Vidarbha have collectively reported just 113 cases over one month. As per the ministry notification, districts collectively contributing more than 80% cases are grouped as red zones. To qualify as green zone, Nagpur and rest of the districts will have to ensure no new cases are reported for 28 days in a row. After 14 days of no-positive cases, the red zone will turn into orange. This means all non-essential movements in all seven districts may extend beyond May 3. The next 14 days would be crucial for Nagpur Municipal Corporation (NMC) and civic bodies of Buldhana and Yavatmal, as reporting of new cases has been linked to effectiveness of containment operations. “Containment operations would be deemed over when there is no case reported in 28 days from an area after last case tests negative. Hotspots (designated red zones) will be assumed to be undertaking effective containment activities, if no case is reported in next 14 days (designated orange zones), and will be deemed successful in containment, if no case is reported for 28 days (designated green zones),” the ministry notification states. Divisional commissioner Sanjeev Kumar said citizens will play a big role in a hotspot shift from red to orange and subsequently to green zone. “Containment measures are in force. To stop transmission, people must strictly follow guidelines of staying indoors, maintain personal hygiene and social distancing,” he said. Nagpur IMA president Dr Kush Jhunjhunwala said this is the right way. “Maharashtra is one of the states with the highest number of corona cases in India. Nagpur is among the districts collectively contributing to more than 80% cases of the state. The only way to break chain of transmission is lockdown,” he said. Resident deputy collector Ravindra Khajanchi said Nagpur district is in red zone because the number of cases is over 50. “We did not send any report to the centre but it did the job itself on the basis of numbers. If there is a gap of 15 days with no new cases, then we will be out of the red zone,” he said. Buldhana district collector Suman Rawat Chandra too said the district will be declared out of red zone if there are no new positive cases for 28 days in succession.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/ngp-2-vid-districts-red-zones-lockdown-may-not-end-on-may-3/articleshow/75189178.cms||Sarfaraz Ahmed
April 17, 2020||Kolhapur||Mango producers worried amid demand fall||Kolhapur: Mango growers in the region have expressed concerns about the sale of the fruit as they are facing severe worker and transport issues in view of the lockdown. They said that they usually send mangoes from Konkan to various markets in Kolhapur, Pune and Mumbai. Instead of sending mangoes to the market committees in bulk, they are now searching for small traders in these districts and supplying mangoes as per requirement. With barely one-and-a-half months left in their hand until the season ends, they are worried that they would not be able to sell mangoes at all this season. Anand Desai, a mango producer from Ratnagiri district said, “People from Pune, Mumbai, Baramati and other parts of Maharashtra contact us and place orders directly. Accordingly, we contact the transporters to supply the mangoes but most of the time, they are reluctant to move to these cities due to Covid-19 outbreak. Eeven if some are ready, they put conditions such as unloading all the material at one spot and not supplying mangoes in various societies as per requirement. They have also started charging us double rates due to scarcity of workers.” “We sell our almost all the stock of mangoes every year in March and April. But with hardly 15 days left, we are worried about how we will cover up for the losses. The rainy season is likely to start from June 8 and we are left with only month of May to clear the stock. Till date, all mango producers are able to supply only 25% of their total production in the market,” he said. Nandkumar Walanju, a city-based mango trader said, “Kolhapur market gets mangoes from Konkan region and some parts of Karnataka. Due to lockdown, very few vehicles are available for transport of mangoes and we are not able to receive the mangoes from the producers to sell them in the market. When our retailers try to sell the mangoes arrived from Konkan region, the buyers are reluctant to buy fearing Covid-19 threat.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolhapur/mango-producers-worried-amid-demand-fall/articleshow/75190491.cms||Vivek Waghmode
April 17, 2020||Chandigarh||14 CCTV cameras installed at entry, exit points of Sector 26 Mandi||CHANDIGARH: The Chandigarh Municipal Corporation has installed 14 CCTV cameras at all entry and exit points of the Sector 26-based Mandi to prevent unnecessary movement and to monitor people present inside. The civic body authority has also closed all entry points of the Mandi, except one, which is the main entry point through Madhya Marg and is situated along the market committee of the Mandi. Only pass-holding vendors are allowed to enter the Mandi after getting thermal test done. The Mandi has multiple entry and exit points and besides vendors, people have also been trying to enter from all these places despite police deployment. Vendors who are not authorised to operate here would also often try to sneak in. “There are eight entry and exit points in the Sector 26-based Mandi and now all these points have been covered with 14 CCTV cameras. These are good quality cameras with the facility of night vision to capture every single movement. The control room of these CCTV cameras is at the market committee office in Sector 26 and senior officers concerned have access to it. The approximate cost of installation of these CCTV cameras is around Rs 5 lakh,” an MC official said. Sources in the civic body said wiring for these CCTV cameras has been laid for around 1.5 kilometres. Now, these CCTV cameras will be a permanent feature. Recently, the MC identified a dedicated dividing road of Sector 26 for wholesale fruit vendors. With this move, no fruit vehicle is allowed to enter the Sector 26 Mandi. The practice will be continued till normalcy is restored.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/14-cctv-cameras-installed-at-entry-exit-points-of-sec-26-mandi/articleshow/75189193.cms||Deepak Yadav
April 17, 2020||Bhopal||Tankha asks MPHRC to take action against health department||BHOPAL: Congress Rajya Sabha MP and senior advocate Vivek Tankha on Thursday complained to the Madhya Pradesh Human Rights Commission (MPHRC) and alleged “gross violation” on part of the state health department in dealing with the ongoing Covid-19 crisis. The MPHRC had issued a notice to the state government on April 7 after a local vernacular newspaper reported that an officer of the health department reached hospital two days after testing positive for coronavirus. Bhopal district collector Tarun Pithode filed a reply on behalf of the state government on April 10. On behalf of Tankha, advocate Ravi Kant Patidar filed an objection on the state government’s reply. Tankha’s objection stated that the MPHRC had issued the notice to the chief secretary asking for the date and time of the receipt of coronavirus infection in officers. It asked why the officers concerned had not been isolated immediately after the test report and how many officers tested positive. The rights panel also asked why the district administration did not isolate and admit the officers in hospitals. “The first and foremost objection is that the purported reply was submitted by the office of the Bhopal collector and not the office of chief secretary, state of Madhya Pradesh, to whom the notice was issued by the rights commission,” the objection stated. Tankha argued that the reply was “called from the senior-most officer of the state regarding the acts and conduct of the principal secretary and subordinates”. He added that the report did not give time when the coronavirus positive report was received. “The reply/report does not disclose the date on which the said officers were admitted in the isolation ward of hospitals designated for treatment of Covid-19. The material information in this regard has been deliberately suppressed in the said reply/report of the state government,” the objection said. “It is clear from the scanty reply that the state government has suppressed material facts to shield the acts of negligence of its officers and has tried to mislead the rights commission by not providing correct and complete information,” Tankha’s objection alleged. The objection further said that according to the health bulletin dated April 14, there were 158 persons infected by coronavirus in Bhopal, out of which more than 80 are from the health department. Tankha asked the rights commission to take appropriate action in the matter.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/tankha-asks-mphrc-to-take-action-against-health-dept/articleshow/75189194.cms||---
April 17, 2020||Mumbai||Several south Mumbai residents could get groceries home delivered||MUMBAI: Several residents of south Mumbai are likely to have groceries delivered at their doorstep soon. The plan is aimed at ensuring they do not step out of their homes during the lockdown. City police have apprised several grocery shop owners of the plan and how to execute it. Shop owners in Colaba, Dongri, Null Bazaar and Khetwadi will be roped in for the purpose. Some residents of these areas have been stepping out to buy groceries and dozens of youths have been charged for roaming around on bikes. “We want people to stay indoors. The plan is that grocery shop owners will take orders on the phone or through WhatsApp. They will be given charge of specific lanes or buildings for home delivery. This will help people stay indoors,” said Nishith Mishra, additional commissioner of police, south region. Milk buying could be restricted between 6am and 9am, and grocery delivery could begin thereafter. Police have suggested that stores hire youths for delivery. Police are likely to rope in doctors to make sure the delivery boys are medically examined first. “We are working on the project and talking to various authorities,” said a police officer.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/several-sobo-residents-could-get-groceries-home-delivered/articleshow/75188064.cms||Mateen Hafeez
April 17, 2020||Bengaluru||Bengaluru: Doctor’s ambulance on 2 wheels a hit||BENGALURU: With OPDs in most hospitals and neighbourhood clinics shut owing to the lockdown, a 46-year-old Bengaluru doctor has emerged a roving healer for thousands of people in Shivajinagar, Pulikeshinagar and Bharatinagar. Astride a twowheeler converted into a mobile ambulance, Dr Syed Moinuddin Shabbir goes around tending to minor ailments and providing residents essentials like groceries and medicines. The genial doctor visits 20 to 25 lanes every day and examines residents. He administers insulin shots to diabetics. “Most of the medicines I supply are for blood pressure and diabetes,” says the doctor, who is also vice-principal of a paramedic college at Santosh Group of Institutions. “There are diabetics with gangrene, who need a strong dose of antibiotics on a regular basis. The dressing also needs to be changed.” Trained by B.Pac as a Civic Leader, Shabbir says he’s been doing his bit since March 25. He initially reached out to people in Shivajinagar. “I was born and brought up in Shivajinagar,” he says. The doctor, who borrowed the scooter-turned-ambulance from the Santosh group, covers at least 125km every day. He has another two-wheeler for delivering groceries. He pays for the fuel and medicines from his pocket. The groceries he supplies are sponsored by organisations such as Rotary Bangalore Cantonment and Jain Youth Trust. On house visits, he also spreads awareness on the symptoms of Covid-19 and the need to maintain hygiene and remain indoors. The doctor has also roped in Pulikeshinagar and Bharatinagar police stations to further his endeavor. Patients in need of help or provisions/medicines contact one of the two stations, which alert Shabbir. So far, the doctor has helped deliver groceries that could last up to one month to 10,000 families, including migrant workers. Shabbir wears a mask to protect himself. “Initially, my family was very hesitant, but eventually they understood it’s a good cause,” he says.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/docs-scooter-ambulance-a-hit/articleshow/75189337.cms||Mrinalini Bhat
April 17, 2020||Chandigarh||Door-to-door screening will be conducted in 27 Panchkula areas||PANCHKULA: To check the spread of coronavirus, the administration plans to conduct door to door screening at 27 areas identified as highly populated. Sources said officials were asked to prepare a report of highly populated areas in the district to conduct door to door screening for Covid-19. Such pockets are dangerous as the infection spreads fast here. The team of supervisors, sanitary inspector and five volunteers submitted a detailed report to Panchkula deputy commissioner (DC) M K Ahuja, which said there are 27 highly populated areas in the district. It mentioned that 16,595 people live in slum areas. Densely populated areas listed in the report include Sector 20, Fatehpur village and shanties in Sector 20, Sector 22, Sector 23, Ashiana Complex Sector 26 and shanties in Sector 26, Ashiana Complex Sector 28 and shanties in Sector 28, Nada village, Sector 31, Moginand village, Ramgarh, Abheypur, Indira Colony, Buddanpur, Rajiv Colony, Railly, Railla, shanties in Sector 14, shanties behind Kisan Bhawan, Labor Colony, Saketri, Gandhi Colony, Saketri, shanties in Bhainsa Tibba, Maheshour village in Sector 21, Haripur village in Sector 4 and shanties in Khark Mangoli. A total of 82 volunteers have been appointed to make sure sanitation and door to door screening are conducted properly. A team of the health department headed by incident commanders and volunteers has started door to door screening in such highly populated areas. DC Ahuja said, “We have identified highly populated areas in the district. Door to door screening will be done to contain the spread of coronavirus. Volunteers have also joined the administration in this step.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/highly-populated-areas-in-pkula-identified-for-door-to-door-screening/articleshow/75189190.cms||Arvind Bishnoi
April 17, 2020||Chandigarh||44% inmates out of Chandigarh juvenile home||CHANDIGARH: A total of 19 juveniles have been sent back to their homes from the observation-cum-special home of Chandigarh to decongest the place, so as to prevent the spread of coronavirus. After the outbreak of Covid-19 pandemic, initially, only five juveniles were released. But, following a Supreme Court directive later, more were sent back to their families. As of now, 19 of the total 43, or 44% of the observation home inmates, have been released in phases to prevent crowding there. In the first phase, in line with the direction from justice Jaswant Singh, chairman, Juvenile Justice Monitoring Committee, five juveniles were released as per the provision of “leave of absence” under Section 98 of the Juvenile Justice (Parent Protection of Children) Act, 2015 for a period of 21 days. Later, following a high court order, dated March 30, three more were released. Subsequently, in line with an April 3 order of the Supreme Court, another 11 juveniles were released. On April 3, the Supreme Court had directed the juvenile justice committees of every high court to ensure that its directions are complied with in letter and spirit. After scrutinizing the applicability of orders, the principal magistrates, Juvenile Justice Board and its members allowed release of another 11 juveniles. Before their release, the juveniles are examined medically and consent is from them if they are willing to go to their respective houses, as well as their parents.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/44-inmates-out-of-chandigarh-juvenile-home/articleshow/75189196.cms||Neha Sharma
April 17, 2020||Aurangabad||Tribals confess to theft for survival, cops give ration||Aurangabad: Osmanabad police recently arrested a few tribal men for a couple of thefts at grocery stores only to find that the suspects had committed the crime because they had no other way to feed their families. The incidents took place within the jurisdiction of the Kalamb police station. Realising that these were not isolated cases and many in the tribal community were struggling to make ends meet, Osmanabad superintendent of police Raj Tilak Roushan, with the help of an NGO, distributed ration kits. He identified 100 tribal families, members of which have criminal records, and provided them with ration that would sustain them for at least a month. Kalamb police inspector Tanaji Darade said: “Four days ago, two grocery stores were targeted by thieves. The thieves used minors to gain entry into the stores through the roof.” Crime branch inspector D M Shaikh said that in one case, articles worth Rs 35,000 were stolen, while in the other, articles worth about Rs 1.25 lakh were stolen by nine accused, who are currently in the custody of Kalamb police. Tilak Roushan told TOI: “Though the arrested accused are criminals on police record, they stole grocery items including edible oil and grains to feed their families. This is a human tragedy. It moved me. It was decided that we would help these families so that they do not commit crimes just to feed themselves.” Apart from the humanitarian angle, the police, through this gesture, are expecting to bridge the communication gap with this community. Roushan added: “If we can reform even one of the existing criminals on police record, we will consider it a major victory for the police department. If one person gets reformed, his entire family gets reformed.” The police teams from the Kalamb and the local crime branch roped in an NGO and ration kits were prepared for each of the 100 families. To send a positive message to the tribal community, the policemen personally went to deliver the kits to their doorsteps. Officers said that their district is home to a few thousand such tribal members, and depending on the help they can generate from their own pockets, as well as from NGOs, more ration kits would be prepared for the families.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/tribals-confess-to-theft-for-survival-cops-give-ration/articleshow/75169144.cms||Mohammed Akhef
April 17, 2020||Mysuru||Mango growers in Mys have bumper crop but no takers||Mysuru: Mango growers from various villages in H D Kote, Mysuru, Periyapatna, Hunsur and other taluks of the district, who had harvested bumper crop this season, are badly affected due to the lockdown measures. As buyers from other parts of the country are unable to buy their produce due to disruption in transport services, prices of various varieties of mangoes have collapsed, leaving thousands of growers in the district worried and helpless. According to sources in the horticulture department, the district has more than 13,000 mango growers and majority of them are small and marginal farmers. The local growers, who had already suffered losses as gusty winds dropped fruits, are now moving pillar to post to sell their mangoes. The king of fruits, which used to flood the market every year, is hardly seen in the city and other markets due to lockdown measures. Local grower Anuraj from Kaniyanahundi on H DKote–Mysore taluk border, who has been growing varieties of mangoes including the famous badami, alphonso, chounsa, dasheri and totapuri in his five-acre land, is now knocking on the doors of the agents of local RMC Yard in Bamboo Bazaar, Mysuru APMC and other traders of the region to sell his mangoes. “Every year, I used to get 100 tonnes to 140 tonnes of mangoes from over 180 trees in my five acres of land. I have harvested bumper crop this year, but there are no buyers, as there is no marketing facility. Local RMC agents are asking me to sell my fruits at throwaway prices of Rs 10 to Rs 20 per kilogram. Several shop owners who buy in bulk on the spot have also not visited us this year,” he said. He urged district officials and the authorities of horticulture department to come to their rescue at this time of global pandemic. Market in Bengaluru shrinks to 2 stalls A 55-year-old tradition celebrating the arrival of king of fruits on a Bengaluru street has ground to a halt for the first time due to the Covid-19 crisis. At least 75 stalls selling mangoes would line up on a 1-km stretch of Jayamahal Main Road in JC Nagar every year. But this time, the famous mango street has reduced to a two-outlet token affair. Several farmers are missing the market the street offered them. They are lamenting their plight as they just can’t bring their yield from different parts of Karnataka due to the lockdown. “I’m stuck here with my stock of neelam mangoes post-harvest. I don’t think I can transport them to Bengaluru till May first week, and I can’t afford a cold storage facility,” rued Rudrappa from Kolar, a regular to the street.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mysuru/mango-growers-in-mys-have-bumper-crop-but-no-takers/articleshow/75188031.cms||---
April 17, 2020||Delhi||Shield in place, no fresh cases in 2 east Delhi zones in 15 days||NEW DELHI: Chief minister Arvin Kejriwal on Thursday said that Delhi government’s Operation Shield was yielding positive results and no new Covid-19 case was reported from two containment zones in East Delhi — Vasundhara Enclave and Khichripur — in the past 15 days. Earlier, Dilshad Garden, which had become a corona hotspot, also emerged as a positive example with no new cases following the strict containment measures. According to officials, Mansara Apartments in Vasundhara Enclave and three lanes of Khichripur were declared as containment zones on March 31 following the detection of several cases of Covid-19. A district administration official said both the areas were a huge challenge due to the dense population and common access to utilities and circulation. “The population was the key. We ensured the colonies were properly sealed and at the same time the residents did not face any inconvenience and continued to access essential services and commodities,” said the official. According to the guidelines, a containment zone was to be sealed with no person allowed to exit or enter the area for 28 days from the date of the last person testing positive for Covid-19. Under Operation Shield, Delhi government ensures sealing of the area, home quarantine of all residents, isolation and tracking of anyone developing symptoms, supply of essential commodities and door-to-door checking. The official added that following the prescribed protocols, the municipal corporation was removing solid waste and maintaining sanitisation in the area. At a press conference on Thursday, chief minister Arvind Kejriwal said that there was a myth that all residents in the containment zones were tested for Covid-19. “If a person has symptoms, only then is a sample taken for testing,” Kejriwal clarified. “The foremost step we take after converting an area into a containment zone is to provide essential supplies to the residents. “Police create WhatsApp groups and requests of citizens are fulfilled through information received on these groups. Sanitisation with the help of the machines and door-to-door surveys for identifying people with symptoms also take place.” At Gali No. 4 of Kishan Kunj Extension, a densely populated colony in East Delhi, government officials said Delhi Police personnel and civil defence volunteers were stationed to take care of the needs of the residents and sanitisation of the area. ADM (East) Yogesh Pratap said it was only after the death of a local person was it determined that he was Covid-19 positive. “He was infected by his son and daughter-in-law who had travelled abroad. Tests found six of the family infected. The area was converted into a containment zone and Operation Shield was launched,” Pratap said. Eleven neighbours who had come in contact with the family were also tested, and the results are awaited. In the last nine days, said officials, no other person has developed Covid symptoms.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/shield-in-place-no-fresh-cases-in-2-east-delhi-zones-in-15-days/articleshow/75190022.cms||---
April 17, 2020||Trichy||IIFPT offers RNA unit to MCH for quicker diagnosis of Covid||Thanjavur: Indian Institute of Food Processing Technology (IIFPT) handed over their automated RNA extraction unit, which aids in quick diagnosis of Covid-19, to Thanjavur Government Medical College. The device is equipped to analyse as many as 100 blood samples within a span of two hours. The director of the institute Dr C Anandharamakrishnan handed over the equipment to the dean of Thanjavur Medical College, Dr Kumudha Lingaraj. Dr Anandharamakrishnan said that the automated RNA extraction system along with robotic work station, that was donated to Thanjavur Medical College, would help cut down the time taken for testing the samples.  “The state-of-the-art device is time-saving and cost effective too. It prevents cross-contamination, ensuring the safety of the staff”, he added. He said that it was part of the institute’s efforts to contain the pandemic. Dean Dr Kumudha Lingaraj appreciated the assistance provided by IIFPT in the fight against Covid-19. Indian Institute of Food Processing Technology is a national level institute that undertakes research in food processing, nutrition and food safety while offering academic programmes in food technology.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/iifpt-offers-rna-unit-to-mch-for-quicker-diagnosis-of-covid/articleshow/75190004.cms||---
April 17, 2020||Visakhapatnam||Vijayasai Reddy meets businessmen in Vizag, seeks donations||VISAKHAPATNAM: Rajya Sabha member V Vijayasai Reddy requested industrialists and the business community in Visakhapatnam district to extend a helping hand to the needy, at a meeting on Thursday. He said they should take up this as a social responsibility and come forward with donations. He addressed the business community and industrialists in the district along with the district collector. At the meeting, he said there were around 2 lakh people in Vizag city who fell in the below poverty level category. Each kit of essential commodities being distributed would cost around Rs 700 and so the administration needs around Rs 15 crore. He said that so far about Rs 4.6 crore was donated to the collector for Covid -19 control measures. “Few industrialists also gave Rs 2.67 crore to the CM’s relief fund. So we started a bank account in the name of GVMC commissioner. Some donors have come forward to set up disinfection machines at 10 areas in the district,” the MP said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/visakhapatnam/vijayasai-reddy-meets-bizmen-seeks-donations/articleshow/75188040.cms||Siva G
April 17, 2020||Aurangabad||Assault on farmer: Traffic constable among 4 booked||Aurangabad: Four suspects, including a traffic police constable serving with the Aurangabad city police, were booked on the charges of assaulting a farmer in the limits of Karmad police station falling in the limits of Aurangabad rural police.The probe has revealed that the suspects, led by the traffic police constable, for the sake of fun, were moving in a private car while posing as cops. The accused would thrash people for not wearing masks or if they caught them moving out in public. All the four suspects have been identified as traffic constable Yogesh Ghodke, Vitthal Dhandge (28), Nivrutti Dandge of Warudkazi and Gajanan Sarode of Naregaon, were taken in detention by Karmad police.The victim Uddhav Mate identified the suspects during an identification parade, following which an offence against them was registered under various sections of IPC including 324 (voluntarily causing hurt), 269 (unlawfully or negligently does any act likely to spread the infection of any disease dangerous to life), 270 (Malignant act likely to spread infection of disease dangerous to life), 188 (disobeying orders duly promulgated by government authority).The farmer was assaulted by the group of these four suspects while he was watering to his crop sometime on Tuesday between 11.45 pm and midnight in Bangaon Shivar village.The man reached out to the senior police officers complaining that he was assaulted by policemen for no reason. Taking cognizance of the same, Aurangabad superintendent of police Mokshada Patil ordered a probe, following which the role of these four accused came to fore.Patil told TOI, “We have identified suspects and booked them for their misadventure. We have a no- nonsense policy against all such mischievous acts.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/assault-on-farmer-traffic-constable-among-4-booked/articleshow/75180906.cms||Mohammed Akhef
April 17, 2020||Kochi||CCRC: Lockdown affects plan to rope in one more contractor||KOCHI: Lockdown has dealt a fresh blow to Cochin Cancer Research Centre (CCRC), which was already hit by slow pace of work. Inkel, the special purpose vehicle for the CCRC project, had been planning to bifurcate the works. It was following the slow pace of the construction that Inkel decided to rope in one more contractor for expediting the works. But the technical committee of Kerala Infrastructure Investment Fund Board (KIIFB), the funding agency, haven’t met for more than a month and so the tender for roping in the second firm couldn’t be awarded. The state government is expected to give exemptions for emergency construction works soon. As per the revised plans by Inkel, the existing contractor will be doing the works of two towers, while the remaining two towers will be constructed by a new firm. “We had completed a revised detailed project report (DPR) for bifurcating the work and submitted it to KIIFB by the third week of March. We are waiting for the approval from technical committee of KIIFB,” an official associated with the project said. “The existing firm has completed more than 30% of the works. But the pace of their work is too slow. So, we are forced to bring in another firm so that the works of four towers will progress simultaneously,” the official said. Despite the authorities asking the existing contractor to increase the manpower and expedite the works, the private firm couldn’t mobilize more than 150 workers while the required strength for completing the project on time is 300. “Once the civil works register progress, the authorities can invite tenders for mechanical, electrical and plumbing (MEP) works. Even if the MEP works are started by June, the works can be completed by December this year. Tenders for lift, firefighting facilities, medical gas, medical equipment, etc. also will have to be invited,” said the official. As of now, the progress of the work of CCRC building is close to 35%. The progress of the work was around 28% when a portion of the main building, which was under construction, collapsed on November 25, 2019 bringing the work to a halt. Later, the authorities resumed the works but the contractor couldn’t speed up the work. It was in October 2017 that KIIFB board chaired by chief minister Pinarayi Vijyan gave approval for the first phase of CCRC. As per the revised schedule, the entire works should be completed by the end of 2020. The state government had allotted Rs 379 crore for setting up the hospital. Out of it, Rs 87 crore has been disbursed and it is for completing the civil works. “We are in the preparatory works for procuring equipment and staff for the CCRC. We expect that the first phase of CCRC with at least 100 beds can be started by the beginning of 2021,” said a source with the CCRC. “We have given instructions to the existing contractor to resume the work which was stopped following Covid-19 spread,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/ccrc-lockdown-affects-plan-to-rope-in-one-more-contractor/articleshow/75187075.cms||M K Sunil Kumar
April 17, 2020||Pune||Pune: Lack of guidelines, medical staff put old age homes at risk||PUNE: As worrying news about old age homes and elderly care centres being hit by coronavirus trickles in from Europe and USA, sources at similar care centres in the city revealed that many such establishments were tackling a shortage of medical staffers and running short of personal protective equipment for care takers. Amar Shinde, founder of Jagruti Dementia Care in Pune and Mumbai, recently wrote to state health minister Rajesh Tope and focused on the precarious situation elderly care centres may face in the absence of equipment and specific guidelines during the Covid-19 outbreak. “There are various care centres, like psychiatric rehabilitation centres, de-addictions centres, mental health centres, at which the inmate population could be in thousands. We have written to the state health department to look into the matter and provide guidelines/SOPs on how elderly care centres should tackle the situation as they have a huge number of elderly inmates. We have requested the government for easy availability of Covid-19 tests, sanitation material and medicines to be made available at our centres,” said Shinde. He added that the elderly care centres have released some healthy patients for safety reasons, so that fewer patients remain at the centres to maintain social distancing. Ninad Baste, founder of the assisted living centre Satyak, said, “There should be a separate quarantine facility for elderly, bedridden and patients of dementia, who require skilled caretakers. We also have requested for personal protective equipment for caregivers or nursing staff as we can’t take a chance in the current outbreak.” Santosh Kanshitte, founder of Poona Geriatric Care Center, said, “We are taking care of patients suffering from age-related disorders like dementia, paralysis, Alzheimer’s and Parkinson’s disease, etc. They are at a higher risk and generally more prone to infections. We are currently very confused as to how the situation could be handled at elderly homes in case of an outbreak. We need an SOP from the government and clear guidelines. The elderly are prone to various infections and, at times, it is very difficult to differentiate between Covid-19 symptoms and those of a normal flu. Hence, we have requested the government for easy availability of testing at such homes,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/lack-of-guidelines-med-staff-put-old-age-homes-at-risk/articleshow/75190014.cms||Neha Madaan
April 17, 2020||Bhopal||Makhanlal varsity terminates Adjunct Professor Mukesh Kumar||BHOPAL: Makhanlal Chaturvedi University of journalism has terminated the services of Adjunct Professor Mukesh Kumar, who courted controversy after a social media post last year, with immediate effect. The university issued an order in this regard on Thursday evening. University authorities, however maintained that Kumar’s service was not required as the university had cut down several courses. But, senior officials on condition of anonymity said action against Kumar was the outcome of his social media post. Earlier in December 2019, students of the university staged a demonstration after the tweet of another Adjunct Professor Dilip Mandal and Mukesh Kumar. After the incident the university has issued an order to terminate the services of Mandal. Both adjunct professors were appointed in July 2019. While Mandal was able to last 6 months, Kumar lasted for about 10 months. Registrar of the university, Dipendra Baghel, said that the university management no longer needs the service of Mukesh Kumar and hence he is terminated with immediate effect. “Courses have been reduced in the university. After analysing his need, it was found that Kumar was not needed in the university,” said Baghel. According to professors’ of university pleading anonymity said that the action has been taken against Mukesh Kumar for his social media post.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/makhanlal-varsity-terminates-adjunct-prof-mukesh-kumar/articleshow/75189205.cms||---
April 17, 2020||Visakhapatnam||Use of community taps calls for hand hygiene, say experts||VISAKHAPATNAM: Public health professionals have called for awareness on threats posed by the use of community taps in the absence of hand hygiene. Health professionals insist the civic body should communicate to citizens to not touch a tap unless they have washed their hands with soap and to maintain social distancing while waiting in a queue to collect water from a community tap or tankers sent by the Greater Visakhapatnam Municipal Corporation (GVMC). The civic body sends tankers to areas that lack a distribution network. Public health experts said the GVMC could ask its personnel to pour water from tankers into containers brought by people. “The municipal corporation has to communicate the message to people on how to collect water. In many localities, especially in slums, people queue up to collect water from a community tap. The authorities have to clearly educate them about the need to touch the tap only with clean hands,” said Dr KV Srinivas, epidemiologist at a private hospital. A GVMC official said they have asked the helper and driver of tankers to operate the taps. “The driver and helper are operating the taps Besides, in some places, people are leaving their containers and standing apart. Our personnel are using hose pipes and filling the containers,” said Ramana, supervisor, GVMC.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/visakhapatnam/use-of-community-taps-calls-for-hand-hygiene-say-experts/articleshow/75188062.cms||Reshma Jain
April 17, 2020||Madurai||Rural cracker units to open from April 20 in Virudhunagar||MADURAI: Virudhunagar district collector R Kannan has said that permission was granted for the cracker units in the rural areas in the district to function from April 20. Secretary of handlooms and textiles department M Karunakaran, who is the special officer appointed to monitor Covid-19 containment works, chaired a meeting with the district administration officials at Virudhunagar collectorate on Thursday evening. After the meeting, the collector said that permission has been granted for the cracker units located in the rural areas to function from April 20. He said that cracker units can function with 50% employees on shift-basis to provide employment to all the people who are dependent on the industry. He said that the cracker units should follow all safety norms to prevent the spread of Covid-19. He said that the match units in the district have started functioning as safety match is an essential commodity. After complaints from safety match manufacturers that there were difficulties in bringing raw materials, which are required for manufacturing safety matches from Kerala, the state government had taken steps to ensure that the raw materials are brought from Kerala from Friday. He said that the district administration officials have also ensured that red phosphorous, which is one of the important raw materials to manufacture safety matches, are brought from Madurai district. Kannan said that while permission was already granted for the school textbooks printing units in the district, permission is granted for units that print notebooks and diaries to start function on April 20. He said that these industries should also function with only 50% employees. He further said that powerloom units manufacturing bandage cloths at Chattirapatti near Rajapalayam in the district are presently functioning with 50% employees. The units are permitted to function with 100% employees from April 20.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/rural-cracker-units-to-open-from-april-20-in-virudhunagar/articleshow/75189208.cms||---
April 17, 2020||Nagpur||Sloth bear with white coat recorded in Melghat||Nagpur: A rare leucistic sloth bear (Meliursus Ursinus) has been recorded in Sipna wildlife division of Melghat Tiger Reserve (MTR) in Maharashtra. The bear was captured on April 3 in camera traps during the ongoing phase IV enumeration exercise jointly being conducted by the state forest department and Dehradun’s Wildlife Institute of India (WII) Leucism is a recessive condition in which there is partial loss of pigmentation in an animal causing white, pale or patchy colouration of the skin, hair, feathers or scales but not the eyes. Some well-known examples of leucism in wildlife are the white tigers of Rewa in Madhya Pradesh, white lions of South Africa and white giraffe of Kenya. These animals are sometimes worshipped as sacred. APCCF & Melghat filed director MS Reddy said, “In India, there has been a record of a sloth bear with a rusty-brown coat from the forests of Dahod in Gujarat in 2016. Such individuals have a low chance of survival as their colour makes them more susceptible to predation.” Reddy said the leucistic sloth bear recorded in Melghat appears to be an adult female and has been photographed in a camera trap with another individual, possibly a male, of normal black coat. The 2,800sqkm tiger reserve with its rugged mountainous terrain and dense wilderness supports a thriving population of sloth bears. Melghat is a ‘green oasis’ in the northern part of the Maharashtra and has a great significance from the point of view of wildlife conservation.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/sloth-bear-with-white-coat-recorded-in-melghat/articleshow/75189219.cms||Vijay Pinjarkar
April 17, 2020||Madurai||Woman quack gets bail to take care of her kids during lockdown||Madurai: The Ramanathapuram principal district and sessions court has granted interim bail to a woman quack on the ground that she has to take care of her two children during the lockdown period.According to the prosecution, the complainant Murugesan’s mother died in February after she was allegedly administered medicine by Papi Rajalakshmi alias Ramalakshmi, who was running Nila Clinic at Thondi. When Murugesan found out that Rajalakshmi was a quack, he lodged a complaint with the Thondi police in March. Based on the complaint, a case was registered against five people including Rajalakshmi under sections 406, 420, 455, 458, 336, 304(ii) of the IPC and under section 15(3) of the Indian Medical Council Act and Tamil Nadu Private Clinical Establishment (Regulation) Act 1997.Rajalakshmi, who was arrested, filed an e-bail application before the Ramanathapuram principal district and sessions court and the case was heard through WhatsApp conference call recently.The petitioner’s counsel submitted that Rajalakshmi was innocent and was falsely implicated in the case. He further submitted that the petitioner has to take care of her two children who are currently under her aged mother’s care.Taking into consideration the urgency of the petitioner, the principal district and sessions judge R Shanmugasundaram granted interim bail to Rajalakshmi by imposing certain conditions.In another case, the sessions judge of mahila court, Madurai, J Flora granted bail to Ramakrishnan, a government school teacher in Madurai district who was arrested on charges of sexually harassing a minor girl student in the January.Hearing his e-bail application, the judge granted bail to Ramakrishnan who is in prison since February 26, till May 4, by taking into consideration the urgent need and necessity to ensure social distancing and thereby reducing the scope of infection. Meanwhile, two people - Alagar and Veluchamy who were arrested by the Perungudi police in Madurai on April 5 for possession of four litres of toddy were granted bail by the Madurai principal district judge A Nazeema Banu after hearing their e-bail application through conference call.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/woman-quack-gets-bail-to-take-care-of-her-kids-during-lockdown/articleshow/75189207.cms||Kaushik Kannan
April 17, 2020||Hyderabad||Office distancing? IT firms not ready to log out of work from home||HYDERABAD: The central government’s decision to allow IT companies to operate offices at 50% capacities from April 20 may have come as a breather. But having just settled into a near total work from home (WFH) scenario, most companies, big and small, say they are not yet ready to get back to office. While a spokesperson for Amazon said the company had decided to continue with WFH till April 30 before the announcement, sources said other MNCs like S&P too are continuing with WFH. IT industry honchos told TOI that while discussions are underway within companies and in the sector on how to restore operations, most companies have got used to WFH and feel staggered ramp up is the best way to ensure employee safety. “Work from home is working well. Shifting to even 20% office operations will take time as we need to put due processes in place. We are still trying to figure out how to ensure social distancing, starting from the bus to elevators, workstations, cafeteria, down to washrooms,” said an IT company top boss. Former Nasscom chairman and Cyient founder chairman BVR Mohan Reddy said while the decision is welcome, industry needs to move very cautiously. “The most important thing is the safety and health of our employees as only one incident (positive case) can blow up the whole thing.” “The decision will benefit many companies that require access to office for critical functions but we have asked all our staff to continue WFH till lockdown ends on May 3,” said Arcesium India MD Ranvijay Lamba. Pointing out that lack of public transport would be the biggest hurdle to restoring even partial operations, HYSEA president Murali Bollu said by April 10, most companies had decided to continue with WFH till April end anticipating lockdown extension and had got permission from clients as well. The Telangana government too is in favour of a staggered reopening of offices. State IT & industries principal secretary Jayesh Ranjan said the government will be issuing guidelines for IT companies and industry on April 19, post the state cabinet meeting. “Our guidelines will be in line with Nasscom recommendations of a graded reopening. If today only about 5% employees are working from office, within a week to 10 days we expect it to rise to only about 10%,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/office-distancing-it-firms-not-ready-to-log-out-of-wfh/articleshow/75189228.cms||Swati Bharadwaj
April 17, 2020||Madurai||People throng flower markets, flout social distancing norms||Madurai: While Madurai has been identified as a hotspot for Covid-19 and the district administration and city corporation have been taking many steps to ensure that it is contained in specific areas, people thronged Arapalayam flower market on Thursday violating social distancing norms. The flower market in Madurai was shut as soon as the nationwide lockdown was announced. As farmers were losing many tonnes of flowers per day, the district administration announced, two days ago, that the flower market would function at three places in the city, outside its permanent place in Mattuthavani, to ensure social distancing. The market in Race Course started functioning on Wednesday and the Arapalayam market opened for the first time on Thursday, where the traders and the buyers were found flouting social distancing norms. Secretary, Madurai market committee, Mercy Jeyarani said that the Arapalayam market had seen a sudden rush as eager farmers tried to bring their products and sell them. “But, we became concerned when we found that they were not using face masks. The Madurai district tiny and small scale industries association (Maditssia), came forward to supply single-use and reusable masks to them immediately,” she said. From Friday, efforts are going to be taken, in coordination with the corporation and police, to provide sanitizers to the buyers and also ensure that the vehicles that come to the market are parked at a specific distance to reduce crowding. Deputy director of agriculture marketing, P Vijayalakshmi also visited the two markets, which collectively received about six tonnes of flowers on Thursday. Jasmines that had not come in large quantities on Wednesday arrived in the markets on Thursday and were sold for Rs 200. “We have been selling it at Rs 60 to Rs 70 a kg to scent factories, but flower markets are places where we see good returns,” said Kandasamy, a farmer from Usilampatti.  Flower markets see more congestion than vegetable markets on a daily basis and would need to be monitored very strictly, said the authorities.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/people-throng-flower-markets-flout-social-distancing-norms/articleshow/75189230.cms||---
April 17, 2020||Kolhapur||Home delivery of cash for beneficiaries of govt schemes||Kolhapur: The delivery of cash to the beneficiaries of the government schemes at their doorsteps has begun in order to stop people from gathering at banks Since the last few days, despite the lockdown, hundreds of beneficiaries especially women and farmers rushed to the banks to withdraw the amount deposited by the central government. Women get Rs 500 and the farmers receive Rs 2,000 from the PM Garib Kalyan Yojana and PM Kisan Sanman Yojana. At the banks, the rush led to chaos as no social distancing norms were followed and the bank officials were worried about the situation. The district collector Daulat Desai had asked the staff of post offices to deliver the cash of both the schemes directly to the beneficiaries so that the people do not have to approach the banks. There are 535 post offices in the district of which 439 are located in the rural areas. Lead bank manager Rahul Mane said, "There are 674 employees of the postal department, Gramin Daksevak, who have been trained to deliver the cash to the beneficiaries. They have been provided with biometric machines to register the beneficiary details. The people can also approach the post offices to withdraw the cash.” He said, “There were false rumours that the money deposited will be taken back if it is not withdrawn on time. The government has clear directions that no such thing will happen. The women and farmers can call the local post offices to get the money delivered to them. The beneficiaries should have Aadhar card, bank passbook and their mobile number with them.” The district central cooperative banks can start disbursing the amount to the farmers who have their accounts with the bank. The bank, however, has to ensure that social distancing is maintained. Mane said that the women can also withdraw the cash from their savings account. “The withdrawal limit for the savings account is Rs 10,000 per day. Upon request, the cash will be delivered to the person holding the savings account in any bank,” said Mane.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolhapur/home-delivery-of-cash-for-beneficiaries-of-govt-schemes/articleshow/75169182.cms||---
April 17, 2020||Bhopal||Video of liquor smuggling from closed shop in Bhopal goes viral||BHOPAL: An alleged video of bootleggers smuggling cartons of alcohol bottles from a liquor shop located near Gandhi Nagar police station in Bhopal during the Covid-19 lockdown went viral on social media platforms on Wednesday. Notably all the liquor shops in the state are closed and sealed, but the bootleggers were seen transporting the liquor cartons from the shop in a car. The video was allegedly shot by two constables, who caught the bootleggers red-handed while they were loading the cartons in the car. But the bootleggers allegedly asked them to talk to the Gandhi Nagar SHO after which the constables went away. After the video went viral on social media platforms late on Wednesday, senior police officers took cognizance of the matter and removed the Gandhi Nagar SHO from active duty and suspended the two constables. A case has been registered against the alleged bootlegger, Kishan Asudani alias Khaggu, and others under Sections 188, 269 and 270 of the IPC at Gandhi Nagar police station. According to information, the liquor shop where the alleged video was said to be shot is located merely 100 metres from Gandhi Nagar police station. It was alleged that Khaggu and his men were loading liquor bottle cartons in a car from the shop in the wee hours of Wednesday when the two constables reached the spot and started shooting the video. When Khaggu spotted them, he allegedly asked them to talk to the Gandhi Nagar SHO from his mobile phone. Later, the constables went away from the spot without taking any action against Khaggu and his men. Late in the night, police released a press statement stating that SHO Gandhi Nagar, SI VBS Sengar, has been removed from active duty and constables Yogendra and Kanhaiya have been suspended. Khaggu and others were booked. Speaking on the issue, SP (North) Shailendra Singh Chouhan, said that an investigation has been ordered in the matter and investigations are underway. He said that the constables were suspended because they did not take requisite actions against the bootleggers. If the SHO had instructed them to leave without registering a case, they should have brought the matter in the knowledge of senior officers, Chouhan said. Watch Bhopal: Bootleggers smuggle liquor from closed shop, case registered||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/video-of-liquor-smuggling-from-closed-shop-goes-viral/articleshow/75189225.cms||Sudeept Mishra
April 17, 2020||Madurai||Tamil Nadu: Temple priests to get Rs 1,000 from government||MADURAI: All the village temple priests who are registered under the village temple poosarigal welfare board of the Hindu religious and charitable endowments (HR and CE) department will get Rs 1,000 monetary assistance from the government. In an attempt to protect the livelihood of the village temple priests during the lockdown period for the containment of Covid-19, the state government had announced that Rs 1,000 cash would be disbursed to them. The monetary assistance would be credited to the bank accounts of the beneficiaries. Officials from the HR and CE department at Virudhunagar, Sivaganga, Dindigul, Theni and Tuticorin districts have asked the priests to submit their names, copies of identity card, front page of their bank accounts to the officials in the concerned districts through WhatsApp or e-mail to get the assistance.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/temple-priests-to-get-rs-1k-from-govt/articleshow/75189216.cms||---
April 17, 2020||Goa||Protocol on use of ventilators: Rane||Panaji: Health minister Vishwajit Rane held a review meeting with senior health officials on Thursday to discuss preparedness for the extended lockdown. “I have issued strict instructions to the GMC dean to set a protocol and standard operating procedures (SOP) for the use of ventilators,” said the health minister. He said there is a need of trained personnel to manage the ventilators, and to this effect, consultants and doctors will be trained for using them. Of 116 samples pending for testing, 67 have tested negative for the disesase on Thursday. As many as 55 samples were sent for testing, the health bulletin stated. Three suspects were admitted in the isolation ward of GMC. TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/protocol-on-use-of-ventilators-rane/articleshow/75190025.cms||---
April 17, 2020||Pune||Bihar: Many worry about elderly miles away||PUNE: Baner resident Amit Mukherji is worried about his 70-year-old mother living all by herself in Kolkata. With the lockdown being extended till May 3, Mukherji on Tuesday tweeted to the Kolkata Police for help. "My mother was under the care of a household help. However, she suddenly left around three days back, citing some excuses. Though my mother is still physically active, she is diabetic. She had to step out of her home to buy some vegetables and fish as it is the Bengali New Year today. I am extremely worried about her. I tweeted to the Kolkata police, explaining the situation and requested assistance. I am waiting for their response," Mukherji told TOI. At another locality in Pune, Siddharth Dhar, a working professional, is concerned about his mother living alone in Kolkata. "My mother has been living all alone as my younger brother and his family are stuck in a different part of the city due to the lockdown. On Monday, my mother, who has a heart problem, had to stand in a queue for an hour outside an ATM to withdraw money. With most stores near her home closed, she is finding it difficult to buy even groceries. So, I downloaded an online grocery delivery app and placed an order for her. I have been assured that the delivery will be made in a couple of days," he said. Atul Yadav, a resident of Kondhwa, called a few neigbours in his hometown Patna to keep a watch over his elderly parents. "I spoke to five families and requested them to help my parents withdraw money from the ATMs and fetch groceries, vegetables and medicines for them. They have all agreed to take care of my parents," Yadav said. Sarmistha Sinha, who lives in Fatimanagar, said she spoke to the local political representative as well as some of the neighbours to take care of her in-laws in Kolkata's Dum Dum. "I called up the local political representative and spoke to him about the issue. Also, I found the number of a neighbourhood medical shop and requested them to deliver medicines required by my in-laws. I am looking forward for the lockdown to end so that I can bring them here," she said. Manish Prasad, who resides in Shivajinagar, said he got in touch with an old friend in Ranchi to look after his ailing father. "One of my school friends live in the same area and I got in touch with him on Facebook and requested him to take care of my father. He readily agreed to do so," he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/many-worry-about-elderly-miles-away/articleshow/75190020.cms||Joy Sengupta
April 17, 2020||Ranchi||Crèche for Covid warriors debuts at Hazaribag hospital||Hazaribag: In a first of its kind in the district, the administration, along with the social welfare department, has set up a crèche at the Hazaribag Medical College and Hospital (HMCH) for female Covid-19 frontline workers who have young children. The crèche has a capacity to accommodate 100 children and was formally launched on Wednesday. Talking to TOI, Hazaribag DC BP Singh said, “There are many female health staff like doctors, nurses and from other allied services, who are at the forefront of Covid-19 fight but are also facing problems in managing their kids at home and are forced to carry them at workplaces. Hence, to provide some relief to our mainline force, we planned this crèche. This is probably the first in any district during the ongoing crisis.” Singh said he has personally inspected the facilities and expressed satisfaction that the crèche adheres to safety norms and has dedicated staff to manage it. He said, “It has become functional and I found many children happily playing and spending their time at this place while their mothers are on emergency duty at isolation, quarantine wards or other areas. You can call it as a mini-anganbari at this hospital.” Across the district, there are 155 quarantine centre in which 2,039 persons are currently lodged. So far, 18,614 persons have been screened for Covid-19 and two persons tested positive in Hazaribag. Hazaribag SDO Megha Bharadwaj on Thursday issued a host of dos’ and don’ts for medicine and grocery shops to prevent spread of infection. Some of them included mandatory use of masks and sanitisers for both staff and customers, no sale to any customer who doesn’t wear mask and enforcement of social distancing norms among others. The SDO said flying squads will keep inspecting the areas and punitive action will be taken on violation of the norms.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/crche-for-covid-warriors-debuts-at-hazaribag-hospital/articleshow/75186968.cms||Abhijit Sen
April 17, 2020||Ranchi||We should learn from mistakes of Gujarat lawmakers: Jharkhand health min to MPs, MLAs||Ranchi: State health, medical education and family welfare minister Banna Gupta on Thursday advised legislators and parliamentarians of Jharkhand cutting across party lines to maintain social distancing norms and follow hygiene protocols to avoid being contaminated. Gupta’s remark comes after a Congress MLA in Gujarat tested positive for Covid-19 on Tuesday evening, forcing chief minister Vijay Rupani, who met the legislators hours before the MLA tested positive, went into home isolation for a week, his office said. “People’s representatives are meeting their electorate and helping the needy amid the lockdown. Taking lessons from Gujarat, we must all take proper precautions and follow the guidelines on personal hygiene issued by the health department in letter and spirit,” Gupta told TOI. While a lockdown puts a blanket ban on inter and intra state travels unless emergency, well placed sources in Ranchi district administration said that at least four MLAs from the ruling Mahagatbandhan dispensation travelled to their respective constituencies without prior approvals and valid passes. When prodded about what was being done to act on such violators, state transport minister Champai Soren evaded an answer. “Everyone must take care of their own personal safety and avoid going out as much as possible,” Champai told TOI. Legislators from the ruling dispensation have also been criticised for a slew of other incidents. State minority affairs minister Haji Hussain Ansari was put on a 14-day isolation after it surfaced that his son Mohammad Tanveer was affiliated to the Tablighi Jamaat. State labour minister Satyanand Bhokta also raised a few eyebrows after he was photographed touring his assembly constituency on a motorbike to distribute food and dry ration among the needy allegedly without maintaining social distancing norms. BJP’s Ranchi and Dhanbad MPs Sanjay Seth and P N Singh also faced flak for travelling to Jharkhand from New Delhi by road on March 13 and subsequently not reporting to their nearby Covid-19 testing facilities. Meanwhile, state government sources said the four member group of ministers comprising Gupta, Bhokta, chief minister Hemant Soren and state finance minister Rameshwar Oraon will meet at Nepal House on Friday afternoon to take stock of the ongoing relief work amid the lockdown. The group will also review the health infrastructure and availability of paraphernalia to combat Covid-19.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/we-should-learn-from-mistakes-of-gujarat-lawmakers-jharkhand-health-min-to-mps-mlas/articleshow/75187512.cms||Dhritiman Ray
April 17, 2020||Ranchi||Fruit, veggie sellers ostracised, food delivery agents seen as virus carriers||Ranchi: Aslam (name changed on request) sells fruits on a pullcart in Ranchi’s Lalpur Chowk every morning for several years now. But as the number of positive Covid-19 cases mounted steadily in Ranchi over the past week, Aslam’s regular clientele began giving his cart a miss. With income reduced to a trickle, Aslam recently approached a few senior functionaries of the ruling mahagathbandhan, seeking their help. But even their word wasn’t enough to convince his customers, who looked at Aslam as a possible carrier of the Covid-19 virus. Sajid (name changed on request) also sells vegetables in Harmu. Ever since the positive patients were reported from Hindpiri, Sajid’s business has gone for a toss. “I am going around localities in Harmu Housing Colony to sell my vegetables. Customers are asking my name and where I live. As soon as they hear my name, they are asking me to move away. My business is suffering heavily,” Sajid (45) said. The trend is rising. Several localities in the state capital have begun ostracising vegetable and fruit sellers based on their religion. Rakesh Sinha, a resident of Ratu Road, said: “The way cases are being reported from one locality, we have to be careful. This is for our own safety.” Incidentally, Daily Market, one of Ranchi’s biggest vegetable and fruit markets, sits next to Hindpiri. The market has been shut since March 22. Besides vegetable and fruit sellers, food delivery agents came under the scanner after a pizza delivery man tested positive for Covid-19 in New Delhi on Thursday morning. While pizzerias across the city remained open, orders from customers plummeted as panic gripped the denizens. “Tired of cooking, I was planning to order a pizza for myself. But after what happened in New Delhi, I changed my mind,” Amrita Sinha, a 30-year-old resident of Ashok Nagar, said. The Ranchi district administration said no food delivery agent has reported health symptoms resembling Covid-19 yet. “But if there is order from our seniors, we will get them tested too,” Ranchi SDO Lokesh Mishra said. Deputy commissioner Rai Mahimapat Ray did not respond when contacted. By estimates, there are a little over 1,600 food delivery agents working in Ranchi for various aggregators like Swiggy and Zomato.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/fruit-veggie-sellers-ostracised-food-delivery-agents-seen-as-virus-carriers/articleshow/75187597.cms||---
April 17, 2020||Ranchi||Man posing as agri officer dupes 3 farmers in Hazaribag||Hazaribag: The district police on Thursday filed an FIR against an unidentified person for posing as a agriculture department official and duped three farmers after collecting their bank account details. Hazaribag SDPO Kamal Kishore said, “The man visited several villages in Hutp panchayat under Hazaribag mufassil police station on Wednesday posing as the district administration officer and met many beneficiaries of the Krishi Ashirwad Yojana. Pretending that he was conducting a survey, he asked the farmers about their bank account details. Three farmers were cheated of a total of Rs 24,100 in the process.” He added, “We have started investigations, but no arrest has been made so far. A police team has been sent to the affected villages to create awareness about the cyber frauds.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/man-posing-as-agri-officer-dupes-3-farmers-in-hazaribag/articleshow/75187459.cms||---
April 17, 2020||Jamshedpur||Jamshedpur: Online veggie delivery helps farmers living in Red zones||JAMSHEDPUR: The All Seasons Farm Fresh (ASFF), a company which operates in East Singhbhum, has suddenly become a talking point in the Steel City. During the nationwide lockdown, it has not only supplied residents here with fresh vegetables on a regular basis but has also come to the aid of vegetable growers in Maoist-hit Gurabenda by procuring their produce. The farmers were in distress after the announcement of lockdown as they had no means to transport the vegetables to the city market, which is at least 50 kms away. But they saw a glimmer of hope when officials from ASFF contacted them and promised to deliver their goods in the city. Notably, after the imposition of lockdown, the Jharkhand government had authorised ASFF to deliver vegetables at the door-step. Orders with the company could be placed through WhatsApp or mobile numbers. Abdul Hamid of Farm Fresh said that every day the company delivers 3-4 tonne of vegetables in the city. He added that during the lockdown, small farmers were finding it extremely difficult to transport their produce to the city mandi. He said that after hearing about the success of ASFF in East Singhbhum, people in neighbouring Seraikela-Kharsawan district have also demanded that the company’s services should be extended there too. Sunita Toppo, one of the farmers from Gurabenda, said: “Our vegetables would have gone to waste otherwise. We contacted the district administration and informed them about the challenges that we were facing. It was then that Farm Fresh officials came to our rescue.” She added that, till now, they have supplied brinjals, bitter gourd and chillies to Farm Fresh, and more vegetables would make it to the list in the coming days.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jamshedpur/online-veggie-delivery-helps-farmers-living-in-red-zones/articleshow/75196188.cms||Debasish Chatterjee
