April 18, 2020||Bengaluru||City corporates ensure employees' well-being during lockdown with fun activities||For most corporate employees, the occasional work-from-home option was a relief from having to brave Bengaluru's infamous traffic. Back then, they had the luxury of household help, and could focus on the official tasks at hand. The coronavirus pandemic and the subsequent lockdown, though, turned things around. Not only did work-from-home get a more permanent status, but it also meant that they had to work for home as well. And if maintaining a work-life balance was tough earlier, imagine now, when you are doing everything yourself. Realising that the morale of employees needs some serious upliftment in these gloomy times, most companies have begun conducting fun online activities and exercises. Fitness classes, music concerts and more to motivate employeesFrom online mediation, yoga and zumba sessions to virtual music concerts, organisations are doing their bit to ensure their employees' well being. Shraddhanjali Rao, vice president - HR, SAP Labs India, says that they have been conducting online fitness sessions to give employees a well-deserved fun break from work from home. Their next initiave was also well received. "We conducted a virtual music concert that was attended by 800 employees. Some even joined the session with their families and it was nice to see people bond over music overcoming language and distance barriers," she says. Walmart Labs' employee engagement programme involved some special family members - pets. "On April 11, which was the National Pet Day, associates were asked to share pictures of themselves with their pets. Not only did this help them have some fun, but it also made them feel connected with each other while being socially distant. The initiative had great participation and created a lot of buzz on our internal platforms," says Sunita Venugopal from Walmart Labs. Feeling overwhelmed? Help is at hand"We’ve started an internal newsletter called #WorkFunHome, where people share pictures of their work-from-home setting with a witty caption. We also have a COVID crisis helpline and a confidential counselling helpline for employees and their families, should they feel overwhelmed by the current situation," says SV Nathan, Chief Talent Officer, Deloitte India. Punitha Anthony, Director of Human Resources at CSS Corp, says that a dedicated helpline for IT and admin support and virtual help desk for HR support have been set up. "Employees are being provided counselling support to cope with working in isolation. We have also been conducting webinars and podcast and sending out emailers regularly for employee awareness," she adds. Not to forget birthday celebrationsMissing the fun of birthday celebrations at the workplace? Management teams are making sure you celebrate your big day with them. "On my birthday, a cake was home delivered, which I cut during a video call with my entire team. The management has been doing this for other employees as well," says Vivek Kangath, senior global manager at Ness Digital Engineering. Funky headgear to lighten up the mood Elita Dsilva, a 28-year-old manager with a French bank's branch in the city, says that her seniors at work decided to lighten the mood on a video conference by wearing unique and funky headgear. "From caps to wigs to headbands and vegetable baskets, my colleagues' new avatars made the call so much fun. I didn't have a cap, so I turned my scarf into a headband. Our team lead is looking at regularly having such exercises for stress relief," says Elita. With inputs from Hansy.Sanctis@timesgroup.com||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/city-corporates-ensure-employees-well-being-during-lockdown-with-fun-activities/articleshow/75209433.cms||Sandra Marina Fernandes
April 18, 2020||Goa||From ‘worst’ to the best, Jessel sets an example||Panaji: Questions were asked when Jessel Carneiro switched over to Kerala Blasters FC ahead of the sixth edition of Indian Super League (ISL). A video had surfaced online which generated over 12,000 views wondering if the Goan defender could be the worst signing for the two-time runners-up. As always, though, Jessel proved everyone wrong. “I tried to get into ISL earlier, but many clubs rejected me because of my age. Even after signing for Kerala last year, there were doubts. There was pressure on me to prove myself and I was determined to prove everyone wrong,” Jessel told TOI. The 29-year-old already had valuable experience after playing for Dempo SC and Pune FC in the I-League and wanted to move up the rank. It didn’t take much time for Jessel to impress Dutch coach Eelco Schattorie in pre-season and there was no turning back after he made an impressive debut against ATK in a 2-1 win at home. “Kerala’s fan base is huge, but I gained confidence after my first game itself and there was no looking back. Other teams rejected me, so I was even more determined to prove them wrong,’ said Jessel. With injured captain Sandesh Jhingan ruled out of the season and many other players also picking up niggles, Kerala managed to finish a lowly seventh in the league. Jessel, however, was the most consistent player as he played all 18 league matches and provided five assists. Before making his move, Jessel had rejoined Dempo to play in the Goa Professional League and has now opened the doors for Goan players to climb up the rank. His Dempo teammate Kirtikesh Gadekar could join him at Kerala while Salgaocar FC forward Devendra Murgaonkar has already joined FC Goa. Salgaocar captain Sanson Pereira is also on FC Goa’s radar, while several clubs are understood to have shown interest in Sporting Clube de Goa’s George D’Souza.  “Any platform is fine, if you want to play and prove yourself. It may be I-League or Goa League doesn’t matter. It feels good to see players in the Goa Pro League are being monitored closely by ISL clubs,” said Jessel. The defender’s popularity grew with every minute he played. According to reports, there were two ISL clubs who tracked him for a while but he eventually opted for a three-year deal with Kerala. “Kerala have not won the ISL trophy as yet and every season the goal remains the same. We had a good squad this time, but couldn’t make it due to injuries,” said Jessel. Kerala have now signed defender Nishu Kumar from Bengaluru FC and the India defender is capable of playing on either flank. “He (Nishu) will help the team and our defence will be even better next season. He is in the national team and I will like a healthy competition too,” said Jessel, who is hoping his time with the national team too will come. He has always waited for the big moves to happen. He’d wait a little longer for the national team too.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/from-worst-to-the-best-jessel-sets-an-example/articleshow/75211352.cms||FLAVIO LOPES
April 18, 2020||Goa||Playing to singing, siblings win hearts||Panaji: Dhiti Lotlikar and Soumya Lotlikar are known in Goa’s badminton circle much more than just for their skills on the court. When the two siblings sing together, it is sheer magic. Dhiti and Soumya have come together to sing a track on the coronavirus pandemic, which inspires others to stay home and be safe. The lyrics for has been penned by their father Santosh Lotlikar, while music is composed by Pravin Naik. The track was released online by their father on Friday and became an instant hit with 12,000 views and close to 350 shares in just six hours. “I initially started singing with my father and sister just as a hobby. For the first time, my father persuaded me to sing at family annual gathering of his members club and gradually he prompted me to participate in various other singing competitions,” said Dhiti, whose song ‘Apghat’ -- originally sung by Lorna -- turned her into an overnight sensation two years ago. The sisters have represented Goa at badminton national championships in recent years. While Dhiti took part in the junior category, younger sister Soumya made it to the squad in the sub juniors. They train under the watchful eyes of coach Sharmad Mahajan at Margao. “During the lockdown, I have spent most of my time reading books and novels and painting canvases. I watch new movies and TV shows with my family. I also make it a point to focus on my fitness and game regularly. “Once the lockdown is over, I want to focus on badminton training along with serious fitness. My aim is to participate in the upcoming nationals and also excel at state-level badminton tournaments,” said Soumya. The Goa Badminton Association (GBA) is promoting the song on their social networking pages and were pleased with the positive response that the song has received so far. “Apart from badminton which they excel at, they share one more trait in common. Both sisters have been blessed with a fabulous voice,” the GBA said in a statement on Friday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/playing-to-singing-siblings-win-hearts/articleshow/75211409.cms||---
April 18, 2020||Mumbai||Celebrate World Heritage Day with a Mumbai quiz and more||Today is World Heritage Day, also referred to as the International Day for Sites and Monuments, and to mark this special day a host of activities will be held online in the city. The only difference this time is that people will be virtually celebrating these iconic sites and landmarks from the real world. Ready for a Mumbai quiz?One such activity, which is targeted at kids is a quiz about The City That Never Sleeps. Bharat Gothoskar, founder of Khaki Lab, shares, "We're catching them young on World Heritage Day. We are making it fun for kids to learn about Mumbai's rich history and heritage, by conducting an online quiz at 5 pm via Zoom." Bharat informs us that this quiz is not just to test their knowledge, but also to increase their awareness through additional bits of information. It has been put together by the team and author Pereena Lamba will be the quizmaster for the day. A question of answersIf you want to encourage your kids, to look at India and the world from a larger lens, there's also a special activity being conducted by educator Urvi Parekh of Nutty Scientists via Playydaye at 11 am. She says, "Did you know that India has the sixth largest number of heritage sites or that there are 38 heritage sites across India? The aim of my workshop is to enrich young minds about the fascinating monuments and heritage sites around India. We will be conducting a fun quiz and will take the children on an exciting, magical journey around India. The children will also participate in experiments and conduct a fun art activity, starting at 11 am." Telling a story with picturesWhile Urvi will be focusing on educating kids about well-renowned heritage sites across India, educator Rachna Narwekar will be weaving these iconic landmarks in a story that will focus on some prominent structures in and around the coastal city. Rachna says,"I will be weaving the different heritage sites in Mumbai to narrate a story that kids can relate to. They will also get a chance to share their impressions of the city with sketches of Mumbai. These could be based on the information they have heard about empty streets in and around the Gateway of India or the dolphins near Marine Drive. The idea is to introduce kids to famous landmarks in Mumbai and also help them express what their perception of what Mumbai is today. It will be conducted at 4 pm in the evening." Be a part of a webinar on Heritage MattersFor adults, looking for answers to some vital question, there's also a webinar happening on Heritage matters. How can we position heritage in all its manifestations in the holistic discourse of sustainable heritage development? How do we rethink the way we approach the UN Sustainable Development Goals? How do we continue to locate and advocate for culture in development through demonstration projects? These and many other questions and concerns will be addressed in this series of webinars facilitated by the International Institute for the Inclusive Museum and the International Centre for Inclusive Cultural Leadership, AnantU. Dr Amareswar Galla, one of the speaker shares, “In the current COVID-19 crisis and the demise of the tourism industry, we need to rethink and position heritage assets in a future context of renewal and rehabilitation. Tourism will be one of the biggest engines to drive the post-COVID world. Heritage Matters Webinar Series is an international platform of ideas and strategic directions for the future of tourism.” Test your knowledge about MumbaiAnswer these simple question about the Maximum City, and see how well you score on this quiz 1) The Gateway of India was built to commemorate the visit of which famous person/ person's to the city?a) King George V and Queen Mary b) Duke Ellington c) Indira Gandhi d Mahatma Gandhi 2) Where in Mumbai did Mahatma Gandhi make the call for Do or Die in his Quit India Speech on August 8, 1942?a) Oval Maidan b) Gowalia Tank Maidan c) Azad Maidan d) Shivaji Park 3) Which caves are located on Gharapuri Island of the coast of Mumbai? a) Kanheri b) Elephanta c) Ajanta and Ellora d) Mahakali 4) Mumbai's answer to London's Big Ben is?a) CST clock b) Sassoon dock clock c) St Thomas Cathedral clock d) Rajabai Clock Tower Answers1) A 2) B 3) B 4) D||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/celebrate-world-heritage-day-with-a-mumbai-quiz-and-more/articleshow/75199246.cms||Melissa D'costa
April 18, 2020||India||States yet to identify 39.79 lakh beneficiaries under food security scheme; Bihar leads the list||NEW DELHI: Amid reports of several migrant labourers struggling to get the highly subsidized foodgrain under the National Food Security Scheme, official data reveal that 39.79 lakh potential beneficiaries have not yet been brought under its coverage by the states till date. Bihar tops the list where 14.04 lakh beneficiaries have not yet been identified to get the benefit. The data show that the gap between the number of accepted persons under the scheme and the number of persons identified by Himachal Pradesh is 8.18 lakh. In Tamil Nadu, this gap is 7.36 lakh. The other states and UT that have bad record are Odisha and Chandigarh. “A large number of migrant labourers are from Bihar. Identifying 100% beneficiaries under the food security scheme would have brought huge relief to such a large section of people to get rice at Rs 3 a kg and wheat at Rs 2 under NFSA and extra five kg per person per month for free for the next three months. They would have also access to one kg free pulses per month per family,” said a government official. There are 15 states where there is no such gap and these include Andhra Pradesh, Madhya Pradesh, Karnataka, Kerala, Punjab, West Bengal and Uttarakhand. In the case of other states, the gap is less than a thousand. According to official data, while 81.35 crore beneficiaries are entitled for highly subsidized foodgrains, as of now little over 80.95 crore have been identified by the states and UTs. The NFSA enacted during UPA-2 had identified beneficiaries as per the 2011 census data. It covered 75% of the rural and 50% of the urban population to bring them under food security net. Experts have sought the need to revise the coverage as the population has increased significantly between 2011 and now.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/states-yet-to-identify-39-79-lakh-beneficiaries-under-food-security-scheme-bihar-leads-the-list/articleshow/75212464.cms||Dipak K Dash
April 18, 2020||Business||RBI throws second Rs 1 lakh-crore-lifeline, prompts banks to lend more||MUMBAI: Three weeks after it unveiled its first package on March 27 for an economy battered by the Covid-19 pandemic, the Reserve Bank of India on Friday sought to ensure the solvency of businesses and small non-bank lenders during the extended lockdown period by making available funds to NBFCs. It also allowed banks to delay classifying stressed borrowers as defaulters and also made it less profitable for banks to keep money idle with RBI by reducing the reverse repo rate (the rate it pays for funds parked with it) by 25 basis points. Friday’s measures included a Rs 50,000-crore refinance facility to banks for lending to NBFCs through a new targeted long-term repo lending operation (TLTRO 2), Rs 50,000 crore funding support for refinance institutions, and reducing rates on bank funds parked with RBI. The focused liquidity support is intended to avert a crisis in the NBFC sector where lenders had granted moratorium to their borrowers but were not granted any relief on their financial obligations. Finance companies, in turn, have been allowed to relax norms for commercial real estate projects to facilitate their completion. RBI governor Shaktikanta Das pointed out that the earlier round of liquidity provided through special repos was used by banks to fund public sector entities and large corporates. In addition to the Rs 50,000 crore to finance companies, RBI set aside another Rs 50,000 crore for farm lending, SME lending and housing finance. This is routed through a special refinance facility of Rs 25,000 crore for NABARD, Rs 15,000 crore for SIDBI and Rs 10,000 crore for the National Housing Bank. He also asked banks to skip dividend for FY20 and use the money to make up for any bad loans. Das acknowledged that banks were avoiding lending by parking close to Rs 6.9 lakh crore with the Reserve Bank of India under its reverse repo program where banks are allowed to park surplus funds. To discourage banks from doing so, RBI has cut the reverse repo rate by 25 basis points to 3.75% from 4%. Finance companies said that the measures still do not address the key problem of getting banks to lend to borrowers who are not top-rated, pointing to the huge amount parked with RBI as an example of the risk aversion of banks. While the RBI cannot force banks to lend, the measures have created the foundation to enable lenders to begin lending if the government comes out with an economic package that will facilitate lending through credit guarantees for small businesses. More on Covid-19Coronavirus pandemic: Complete Coverage21-day lockdown: What will stay open and what won'tHow to quarantine yourself at homeTrust the newspaper for your daily verified newsSBI chairman Rajnish Kumar said the central bank’s decision to allow a 90-day standstill for classifying a loan as a non-performing asset will give banks the desired operational flexibility to lend a helping hand to stressed accounts. According to Rashesh Shah, CEO, Edelweiss group, finance companies have been using up their reserves as they had to meet their obligations even as they granted moratorium to their borrowers. “With access to liquidity, NBFCs can now replenish their reserves,” he said. “Given the optimism around the economy coming back in phases and the support being extended through emergency Covid loans and other lines of credit, this will help all sectors, especially MSME and retail,” said Padmaja Chunduru, MD & CEO, Indian Bank. Announcing the measures, Das said in India, the mission is to do whatever it takes to prevent the epidemiological curve from steepening any further. The governor said that because of the epidemic and measures to contain it the macroeconomic and financial landscape has deteriorated, "precipitously in some areas, but light still shines through bravely in some others". He said these were not the last of the measures and the central bank would come up with more steps as the situation evolves. Sounding a note of optimism the governor said, “Although social distancing separates us, we stand united and resolute. Eventually, we shall cure; and we shall endure.” According to HDFC vice-chairman and CEO Keki Mistry, the measures announced by the RBI will ease the liquidity situation in the markets quite a bit. He said while the direction to banks asking them to skip dividend would result in Rs 1,000 crore of the dividend not coming in, the overall impact would be offset in a consolidated balance sheet.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/rbi-throws-second-rs-1-lakh-crore-lifeline-prompts-banks-to-lend-more/articleshow/75212830.cms||---
April 18, 2020||India||Wildly varying data across states makes comparisons difficult||NEW DELHI: In states like Maharashtra, Tamil Nadu, and a few others, roughly 80% of the active Covid-19 cases are asymptomatic, according to data collated by TOI. However, seven large states – including Andhra Pradesh, Telangana and Punjab – and all of those in the North-east have recorded zero asymptomatic cases. This suggests that numbers for the ‘low-to-zero’ category may be grossly understated and makes comparison of number of cases in different states meaningless, say epidemiologists. If these states, where asymptomatic cases recorded were very few or zero, had the same proportion of asymptomatic cases as states like Maharashtra or TN, the total number of positive cases in the country could go up by over 6,000, taking the total to well over 21,000. Then there are states like Delhi, Uttar Pradesh, Rajasthan and Madhya Pradesh, for which there was no data available on symptomatic and asymptomatic cases. If these too have primarily asymptomatic cases, the total number would get pushed even further up. While the exact number may be a matter of debate, what the data indicates is that comparisons of numbers of cases across states could be misleading. “It’s just not possible that in some states two-thirds to three-fourths of positive cases are asymptomatic, and in some others it’s zero. There’s a serious problem with recording,” said a public health expert. More on Covid-19Coronavirus pandemic: Complete Coverage21-day lockdown: What will stay open and what won'tHow to quarantine yourself at homeTrust the newspaper for your daily verified newsStates that are following a wider testing protocol could be picking up many more cases and hence their numbers might seem larger relative to the others. This could also help explain the widely varying case fatality rates across states, an issue highlighted by TOI in an earlier report. “Other states should be having a fair number of asymptomatic cases. It would be a fair conclusion that if they are not being picked up, the testing protocol is probably missing them,” said Prof Rakhal Gaitonde, a public health expert from the Sri Chitra Tirunal Institute for Medical Sciences and Technology in Thiruvananthapuram. “The wider the testing strategy, the higher the chance of picking up milder illness. But the issue also needs to be correlated with the proportion of tests being done per protocol and protocols in use may vary depending on the interpretation of state-level guidelines,” said Dr Gaitonde. “A state with a good surveillance system will find cases actively. The idea is to detect any circulation going on anywhere so that you take necessary measures to contain it. The real issue is how many cases you found early enough and limit its spread,” said epidemiologist Dr Giridhara Babu of the Public Health Foundation of India, adding that it was possible that when testing kits are limited, some states may employ the available kits stringently in order to confirm diagnosis. “I think there is too much emphasis on the testing as an end in itself. It is the process of active case finding (with or without tests) that defines effective containment,” said Dr Babu emphasizing the need to detect more cases, isolate them and subject their contacts to quarantine.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/wildly-varying-data-across-states-makes-comparisons-difficult/articleshow/75213260.cms||Rema Nagarajan
April 18, 2020||India||‘Virus jabs’, ‘detention camps’: Rumours lead to attacks on medicos||NEW DELHI: A mix of rumours on social media and misinformation about quarantine centres could be provoking mobs to attack medical teams. In at least two recent instances — in UP’s Moradabad and Indore — where doctors and cops were attacked while trying to take people to quarantine centres, local residents told TOI that videos and messages about alleged mistreatment in such places were circulating in the days preceding the assault. On Thursday, Union minister for minority affairs Mukhtar Abbas Naqvi tweeted that rumours about isolation centres were being floated and there was a need to educate the public on it. Dr S C Agarwal, a member of the team that was pelted with stones on Wednesday in Moradabad (a missile left him bleeding from a deep gash on his head), said a video about alleged mistreatment and mismanagement at quarantine centres might have provoked the mob. Residents in Nawabpura locality where the incident occurred said they had seen a video that warned them about "quarantine centres acting like detention centres". More on Covid-19Coronavirus pandemic: Complete Coverage21-day lockdown: What will stay open and what won'tHow to quarantine yourself at homeTrust the newspaper for your daily verified newsA woman at Nawabpura told TOI, "The medical team had come to pick up four members of a family that had already lost two men within days of each other, one of them in a quarantine centre. This fanned fear that something was going on in these centres. Soon there was a video which claimed people were being sent there to die. This made everyone anxious." Moradabad SSP Amit Pathak said police were aware that some anti-social elements were indulging in rumour-mongering. "People are being misled. We will take strict action against spreaders of fake news," he said. In Indore’s Tatpatti Bakhal area, where a medical team was attacked on April 1, Mohammad Ishrat Ali, the shahar qazi, said a message had been circulating on social media that health workers were "injecting members of a community with coronavirus". He added, "Most people in the area are illiterate and lack information. They couldn’t understand that it was a lie." Zafar Alam, an activist in Firozabad who has previously helped the administration in its efforts to eradicate polio in the community, agreed many were susceptible to rumours but said there were other factors at play as well. "People are aware that the community has been accused of spreading the virus deliberately even in some news reports. But this anxiety has not been addressed. There have been no strong statements against such fake news. Perhaps that has added to the frustration." Other social workers said the debate about the Citizenship (Amendment) Act and the National Register of Citizens was still raging when the Covid-19 outbreak occurred. "They connected the quarantine centres to detention camps," an activist said. Shadab Chauhan, a social worker, said, "Word spread that people were being picked up and locked in quarantine centres. The administration should have released photos of the facilities or sent their representatives to address concerns." In certain pockets, talk is rife that those sent to quarantine centres are left without treatment. The seriousness of the situation has forced many community members to announce that doctors were risking lives to save them and they shouldn’t be targeted. In Indore, Ishrat Ali said mosques were making announcements, asking people to cooperate with health workers. "Community members are going door to door," he said. "The difference is visible. When a health team arrived in Tatpatti Bahal days after the attack, people clapped for them." Chhatripura police station in-charge RNS Bhadoria confirmed to TOI that locals had indeed cheered the team that arrived in the area after the incident. "We are investigating what led to a sudden attack." Cops are also releasing videos and audio clips to clear the air. On Friday, a clip released by the Moradabad administration has a man say he is getting three meals a day and medical care at a centre. (Inputs by Pankul Sharma, Piyush Rai, Anuja Jaiswal and Arvind Chauhan)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/virus-jabs-detention-camps-rumours-lead-to-attacks-on-medicos/articleshow/75213309.cms||---
April 18, 2020||India||ICMR to study if BCG vaccine helps prevent coronavirus||NEW DELHI: The Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) will start a new trial next week to study the efficacy of BCG vaccine in preventing Covid-19, with the results expected to help the government decide if the vaccine can be recommended to frontline healthcare workers taking care of patients. "The ICMR will begin a study next week. Till we have definitive results from this, we won’t recommend it even for health workers," Dr R R Gangakhedkar, head of epidemiology and communicable disease at ICMR, said on Friday. The possible effects of BCG vaccine in boosting anti-viral immunity has been the subject of considerable comment, with some studies pointing to higher fatalities in some European nations that have discontinued vaccination. More on Covid-19Coronavirus pandemic: Complete Coverage21-day lockdown: What will stay open and what won'tHow to quarantine yourself at homeTrust the newspaper for your daily verified newsBacille Calmette-Guérin (BCG) is a vaccine primarily used against tuberculosis. In countries where TB or leprosy are common, one dose is recommended for healthy babies as close to the time of birth as possible. The trial on BCG vaccine will be one of a few lines of treatment and prevention being pursued around the world, with work continuing on anti-virals like remdesivir, found useful against Ebola, and plasma or immune therapies besides research on an anti-Covid-19 vaccine. "We do not have evidence to take an official position on the BCG vaccine in Covid-19. It cannot even stop TB but it can only protect from severity. It probably stops meningitis — so it is partial protection. There are some studies that show that it is an immunomodulator," Dr Gangakhedkar said. Explaining its usage and efficacy, he said the vaccine is given at birth and is effective for 15 years. There are studies about re-vaccination with BCG but even that is till adolescence or 15 years of age. However, there is no evidence or studies about the utility of re-vaccination after 15 years of age. Earlier this week, the World Health Organisation said there was no evidence yet to show that BCG vaccine was effective in preventing Covid-19 infections. "Two clinical trials addressing this question are under way, and the WHO will evaluate the evidence when it is available. In the absence of evidence, the WHO does not recommend BCG vaccination for the prevention of Covid-19," the UN agency said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/icmr-to-study-if-bcg-vaccine-helps-prevent-coronavirus/articleshow/75213402.cms||Sushmi Dey
April 18, 2020||Gurgaon||218 with Covid symptoms traced, samples sent for tests||Faridabad: The health department has identified 218 people with symptoms of Covid-19 and have sent their samples for testing. A health official said while the reports of 200 people in containment zones are still awaited, 18 have turned out to be negative. The door-to-door screening in containment zones is still going on. “We are conducting door-to-door screening to identify symptomatic people in containment zones. A total of 218 people has been found to be symptomatic. Their samples have been sent for testing,” said Dr Ram Bhagat, deputy civil surgeon, Faridabad. An administration official said the decision on the containment zones, whether to retain them and add more, will depend on the results of samples collected from containment zones in the district. “We are waiting for these results and will review and take a decision to tweak the list of containment zones. An action will be taken on the basis of cases reported from these areas,” said a district administration official. Faridabad police, meanwhile, has decided to carry out surveillance of containment zones using drones. In Faridabad, no new case of Covid-19 was reported on Thursday. Five Covid-19 patients with links to Tablighi Jamaat (TJ) were discharged after they recovered on Thursday. The health department has sent 1,030 samples for testing so far, out of which 769 have turned out to be negative. The reports of 228 samples are awaited. The department has put around 1,298 people with recent travel history under surveillance. Out of 1,298 people, 573 people have completed 28 days of quarantine. Of 33 patients tested positive for Covid-19 in Faridabad, 13 have been discharged after recovery. Faridabad has been declared one of the hotspots in Haryana by the health and family welfare ministry, which has dentified 170 hotspot districts across the country.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/gurgaon/218-with-covid-symptoms-traced-samples-sent-for-tests/articleshow/75196994.cms||Vishakha Chaman
April 18, 2020||Vadodara||Told to stop selling veggies, woman switches to masks||Vadodara: A woman, who used to earn her living by selling vegetables in Gorwa was forced to sell masks on the road after cops asked her to stop selling vegetables following the lockdown orders. The woman, Sheela Chauhan, said that her vegetable sales were already down since the residential societies ad stopped entry of vegetable vendors. To make up for it, Chauhan was selling vegetables on road leading to Ellora Park from Gorwa ITI. “But a week back, policemen came and asked me to stop selling on the road saying that social distancing was not being maintained at my hand cart,” Chauhan told TOI. “I ensured that people stand at a distance at my hand cart as there are two kids at my home and I would not want them to get affected because of me,” she added. Chauhan, however, found an opportunity even in the time of lockdown. She bought reusable cotton masks and handkerchiefs and started selling outside her house. “We are five people at home including my mother whose medical costs are high and there is nobody else to earn money so I have started selling masks,” she said. But despite putting up a mask stall outside her home and civic body making masks compulsory, Chauhan is not being able to make as much as she used to earn by selling vegetables. “There is good profit in selling vegetables,” she said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/told-to-stop-selling-veggies-woman-switches-to-masks/articleshow/75209259.cms||Bharat Pathak
April 18, 2020||Business||Sensex up 986 pts on RBI’s booster||TNN Mumbai: The economic booster from Mint Street on Friday morning fuelled a sensex rally that added nearly 1,000 points at close with banking stocks leading the surge. The sensex, after a strong opening on the hopes of a robust monetary stimulus from the RBI, witnessed some profit-taking in mid-session. However, it rose again in late session, mainly on the back of the central bank’s series of measures aimed at supporting the battered economy and partially due to short-covering by speculators, and closed at 31,589 points, up 986 points or 3.2% on the day. The day’s rally, that came on the back of local buying as foreign funds were net sellers at nearly Rs 1,400 crore, added about Rs 2.75 lakh crore to investors’ wealth with the BSE’s market capitalisation now at Rs 122.8 lakh crore. Strong buying in ICICI Bank, Axis Bank and HDFC Bank, along with index heavyweight RIL accounted for nearly 60% of the sensex’s gains, BSE data showed. On the other hand, most of the pharma and FMCG stocks, which witnessed good buying in the last few weeks, saw some profit-booking and closed lower. According to Lav Chaturvedi, ED & CEO, Reliance Securities, RBI’s prompt booster for the economy through a slew of measures lifted investor sentiment since these steps are expected to bring the economy back to normalcy. “RBI’s announcement of TLTRO 2.0, mainly for NBFCs and refinancing companies, 25bps cut in reverse repo rate, increase in Ways and Means Advances limits, asset classification standstill and relaxation in NBFCs’ loan to commercial real estate projects are seen as proactive steps to support the economy to move to normalcy,” Chaturvedi said. On the sectoral front, banking index rose the most, followed by strong gains in finance, real estate, energy and consumer discretionary indices. In contrast, FMCG index was the only sectoral index that closed lower, BSE data showed.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/sensex-up-986-pts-on-rbis-booster/articleshow/75211613.cms||---
April 18, 2020||Chennai||More cured in Tamil Nadu than infected, experts say end may be in sight||CHENNAI: It’s too early to rejoice, but researchers and epidemiologists say there are signs of the beginning of the end of Covid-19 in Tamil Nadu. One of the indicators, they say, is that more people are getting cured than those getting infected. On Friday, when the state reported 56 new cases, 103 patients got discharged from hospitals. Sitabhra Sinha from The Institute of Mathematical Sciences say the growth of cases in the state is linear, but not exponential. Medical experts attribute it to effective contact tracing. If the present trend continues and no fresh clusters emerge, Tamil Nadu may be able to flatten the curve by the time the extended lockdown ends on May 3. As on Friday, Tamil Nadu had 1,323 confirmed cases, 283 recovered and 15 deaths. States like Maharashtra have been recording an exponential rise with 3,202 confirmed cases, 164 recovered and 194 deaths. National Institute of Epidemiology (NIE) director Manoj V Murhekar says the doubling period getting longer is an indicator of the situation stabilising. “The doubling period (time taken for the number of positive cases to double) in TN came down to a week in early April because of the Tablighi Jamaat cluster,” he said. Now it is about 10 days, with 56 cases on April 17; 25 on April 16; 28 on April 15 and 31 on April 14. ‘Drop combined effect of lockdown, testing, isolation & contact tracing’The state was reporting double these numbers before April 14. For the past three days, the average number of fresh cases in the state has been 35. “From the numbers at present, the disease seems to have been relatively contained in Tamil Nadu,” said Sinha. “Both Tamil Nadu and Kerala are somewhat unusual among the states of India, as the growth in the number of active cases seems to be linear. So, no matter how high the growth rate is, it would eventually lead to lower numbers,” he explained. A senior scientist at the National Institute of Epidemiology, Chennai said TN has done a commendable job in tracing single source cases and contacts. “But we are not clear about transmission outside this group,” “Of course, it’s a combination of lockdown, testing, isolation, and contact tracing that has helped in bringing down the cases,” he said. Experts say Tamil Nadu can take a lesson or two from its neighbour, Kerala. “Kerala has managed to keep the growth rate linear for the entire period, with a relatively low growth rate. Obviously, they have managed to do the right things,” Sinha said. Effective leveraging of panchayats and community institutions for contact tracing and quarantine monitoring should be the way forward. On a national scale, researchers observe a slight flattening of the growth curve starting April 6 and by April 9 saw the first evidence of slowdown in the growth rate, which they believe is the effect of the lockdown. If this trend continues, India could report just short of 20,000 active cases by April 20 and in weorst case scenario about 30,000. But one has to wait and watch the result of the second phase of the lockdown, said a researcher.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/more-cured-in-state-than-infected-experts-say-end-may-be-in-sight/articleshow/75212036.cms||U Tejonmayam
April 18, 2020||Patna||Jharkhand, UP keen to replicate ‘Bihar model’||PATNA: The Bihar model of helping migrant workers through direct transfer of relief amount into the bank accounts has emerged as an “ideal model” for other states. Two states – Jharkhand and Uttar Pradesh – have approached the Bihar government to replicate the mobile application-based mechanism for transferring relief money into the bank accounts of migrant workers of their states, water resources department minister Sanjay Jha said on Friday. Under the direct benefit transfer (DBT) mechanism, a link has been provided on www.aapda.bih.nic through which migrant workers stranded in other states can register themselves. Officials said state disaster management has so far transferred the amount of Rs 1,000 per beneficiary through DBT to a whopping 10.25 lakh accounts, including the accounts of 15 lakh migrant workers from Bihar. “CM Nitish Kumar was particularly concerned that migrant workers from the state would be hit hard during lockdown. He first advised officials to call back people, who had reached out to the state government in the early days of the lockdown, and figure out the nature of their problems. We realised that they lacked money and food. The CM categorically instructed senior officials on April 2 to transfer Rs 1,000 each into the bank accounts of stranded migrant workers,” Jha said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/jharkhand-up-keen-to-replicate-bihar-model/articleshow/75208114.cms||---
April 18, 2020||Patna||Chancellor seeks weekly report of universities in Bihar||PATNA: Taking cognizance of the reported dilly-dallying of some state universities in implementation of orders regarding commencement of online teaching during the current lockdown period, governor-cum-chancellor Phagu Chauhan has sought weekly report from the vice-chancellors. The chancellor has asked the VCs and all other officials of universities to remain at their university headquarters and monitor the conduct of online classes on a regular basis and the online programmes introduced by the UGC for students pursuing various courses. Online study materials must be made available for students and arrangements should be made for their learning through assignments and constant evaluation by subject teachers. He said the VCs must submit the progress in implementation of all these online academic activities on weekly basis. The chancellor had earlier advised the VCs to arrange for online classes and also to provide important links of online learning programmes on their respective university websites, for the benefit of students, who are not attending regular classes in colleges and universities. Meanwhile, JD(U) MLC and Patna University geology teacher Ranbir Nandan has taken strong exception to the reported move of some educational institutions to initiate the process of admission during the ongoing lockdown period. “What is the need of rushing through the process of admission when it is practically not feasible to complete the process under the existing circumstances,” he said. Nandan, who is also the state Chhatra JD(U) in charge, pointed out that the results of Plus two examinations conducted by the CBSE, the ICSE and degree Part-III examinations conducted by the universities are yet to be announced. Moreover, students will have to face immense hardship in procuring their marksheets and certificates and getting them photocopied as all stationary shops and cybercafé are closed. State Chhatra JD(U) president Shyam Patel has also demanded postponement of all admission-related work till the lockdown period ends.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/chancellor-seeks-weekly-report/articleshow/75208198.cms||B K Mishra
April 18, 2020||Patna||Parents worried about children studying, staying abroad||PATNA: Amid the travel restrictions owing to Covid-19 pandemic, it’s technology which keeps the Bihari diaspora abroad in touch with their families in India and vice versa. Nishant Anand (27), who is completing his higher studies at Drexel University in Philadelphia, said he would have come to Patna anyhow had it be known that the situation would become so critical. “I stay in constant touch with my family members, especially with my mother, who keeps worrying about me all the time. I make a video call to her every three hours to show that I am fine,” he said. “It is normal for parents to worry about children away from home, especially in the prevailing scenario. But the main reason for my parents to worry even more is the growing number of deaths in the USA due to Covid-19,” he said. Neha Aishwarya, a native of Ashiana Nagar, is settled with her husband and their four-year-old son in Florida. She is constantly worried about her mother back home owing to the vulnerability of senior citizens to the novel coronavirus. “There’s almost nine hours time difference between India and Florida, which makes it very difficult for me to stay connected with my mother. However, I try and talk to her as soon as she wakes up in the morning. It’s a difficult time for all of us and I have no idea when am I going to meet my loved ones,” she said. Meanwhile, families who have sent their children overseas for study or jobs are also worried due to the pandemic. Patliputra cooperative society’s secretary Rai Ajeet Prasad, whose son is studying in Pennsylvania, said he is safe as he has self- quarantined himself. “Technology is playing a vital role in keeping me connected with my son in this crisis situation. Given how badly has the US been impacted by the virus, my wife and I try and talk to our son as much as possible,” he said. Prasad said: “My son has to wait for at least one week to get home delivery of essential commodities. Luckily, he bought ration for two months in March and has not stepped outside since then. At times when he runs out of some item, he orders it online. Even though, Patna is not so developed, but the situation here is far better. At least we get essential commodities delivered on our doorsteps in a day or two,” he said. Bhootnath Road resident Arvind Kumar Mishra is also concerned about his son, who along with his two friends is stuck in the US right now. “Video calls and phone calls are the only way to stay connected with my son at this point of time. I call him at least four-five times everyday in order to ensure that he is safe,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/parents-worried-about-children-studying-staying-abroad/articleshow/75208323.cms||Archi Rani
April 18, 2020||Patna||Many try at-home grooming tips now||PATNA: Split ends, long beard and thick eyebrows have prompted youngsters to try their hands at grooming themselves at home. Amid the extended lockdown to contain the spread of coronavirus, all beauty salons and parlours in the city continue to remain shut. While men are finding it difficult to get their hair and beard trimmed, women are missing out on their weekly grooming sessions. Kankarbagh resident Shailesh Kumar told this newspaper, “I get my hair trimmed at least once every week, but due to the lockdown, it has become unmanageable. Since looking presentable during videoconferences is important, I am using hair gels and creams these days.” Kadamkuan resident Hansika is waiting eagerly for salons to reopen after the lockdown. “My eyebrows look so bushy that I have stopped clicking pictures. I am also unable to get my weekly facial done because of which my face looks dull,” she claimed. Many youngsters have now found alternatives to look fresh during the lockdown. Stuti Rajput, a collegian, is using home remedies to keep her eyebrows and nails on point. She said, “Luckily, I had also bought some essential beauty kits, razors and a hair steamer just before the lockdown.” 23-year-old Akshat Shrivastava’s dad is suggesting him ways to look perfect even during the lockdown these days. “My father never goes to salons for getting his beard or hair trimmed. He is now helping me grooming myself at home,” he said. Meanwhile, hair stylists and beauticians claimed that they were receiving numerous calls from city residents seeking salon services at home. “Since the contact details of my salon are available online, more than 200 people have called me up so far. I could have provided at-home services, but considering the present situation, I decided not to risk my life,” said Shalini Sinha, the owner of a unisex salon on Ashiana-Digha Road. Another beautician, Shilpi Gupta, who runs a small parlour in a residential society on Saguna Mor, said, “I am sure more than 1,000 customers will visit my parlour the day the lockdown ends.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/many-try-at-home-grooming-tips-now/articleshow/75208354.cms||Archi Rani
April 18, 2020||Trichy||Trichy corporation reports increase in face masks in daily waste||TRICHY: As more and more people are using face masks while venturing out, Trichy Corporation is witnessing a mild surge in face masks in the daily waste collected. Single-use plastic hand gloves are among the other non-biodegradable waste that has increased since the lockdown. As face masks became a most sought after product since the curfew began, people have been using a wide range of clinical face masks, all of which are mostly use and throw. This has resulted in a marginal rise in the quantity of hazardous waste handled by the corporation alongside sanitary napkins and diapers. “At least 2-3 masks are being collected by our workers from houses during the lockdown. We have been insisting residents to hand over used face masks separately,” a sanitary official added. The used face masks will be incinerated at the micro compost centres in the city. “As cloth-made face masks are now available, people would gradually shift to them. Such masks can be washed in hot water and dried in sun for reuse,” the sanitary official added. Since the face masks and used hand gloves are comparatively light weight, the civic body maintained that there is no difficulty in handling the waste but urged the people not to mix non-biodegradable and biodegradable waste.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/corpn-reports-increase-in-face-masks-in-daily-waste/articleshow/75212909.cms||---
April 18, 2020||Trichy||Spurt in central region of Tamil Nadu cases as 27 test positive, total reaches 187||TRICHY: After a couple of days of slowdown, the number of Covid-19 positive cases surged in central region of the state with 27 people testing positive for the viral disease on Friday. The sudden spurt brought the total cases in the region to 187. Thanjavur topped the list with 17 cases in a single-day rise on Friday. Media bulletin from the state health and family welfare had a mention that 11 patients contracted the disease primarily while six others were the contacts of the positive patients. With this, the total number of cases jumped to 30 in the district. Among the 17 new cases, 15 patients are men from several parts of Thanjavur while five are women including a 16-year-old girl. Except a few, most of them are in the age group of 50 to 70 years. In Tiruvarur, four more cases were added to the tally. All of them are close contacts of the positive patients. The patients include a 10-year-old boy, a 12-year-old boy, a 60-year-old woman and a 36-year-old woman from Needamangalam and Thiruthuraipoondi areas. With this the total number of patients being treated in the district climbed to 22. Trichy is seeing positive cases after a gap of five days. Three more people tested positive on Friday. With this, Trichy’s total recorded cases stood at 46. The three patients are among the 69 Tablighi Jamaat delegates who were under quarantine at Jamal Mohammed College in Trichy. While 61 of them were discharged after they showed no symptoms on Wednesday, the rest were shifted to Mahatma Gandhi Memorial Government Hospital (MGMGH) in Trichy as they showed some symptoms. Today’s results showed that three of them are Covid-19 positive. In a statement, Trichy district collector S Sivarasu said that as on Friday, 17 patients are still undergoing treatment at the hospital.The health department took swabs from 682 people including the family members and relatives of the 36 positive patients in Trichy. The collector stated that 344 of them tested negative and the results of 331 are awaited. Seven of them already tested positive and they were among the total 17 patients undergoing treatment at MGMGH now. Two more people tested positive for Covid-19 in Nagappattinam district. Both of them are contacts of the positive patients. The total positive cases in Nagappattinam district climbed to 43. In Karur, a 35-year-old woman tested positive. The patient was also a contact of a patient. With this, the total positive cases in the district turned 42. Government Medical College Hospital in Karur also discharged one patient on Friday. (with inputs from D Vincent Arockiaraj)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/spurt-in-central-region-cases-as-27-test-positive/articleshow/75212902.cms||---
April 18, 2020||Bhubaneswar||Odisha bans spitting in public places||BHUBANESWAR: The Odisha government on Friday banned spitting in public places. While a fine of Rs 200 will be imposed on the first three violations, the amount will go up to Rs 500 after that, chief secretary Asit Tripathy said. The Odisha Covid-19 Regulations-2020 framed under the Epidemic Diseases Act, 1897, has been modified making spitting a cognizable and compoundable offence, the top bureaucrat said. The fine can be imposed by block extension officers, assistant subinspectors of police, municipal ward and higher rank officers. “Apart from being an important step to prevent the spread of the novel coronavirus, avoiding spitting in public places will help check the spread of several other diseases. People should cooperate with the government for their own good and in the larger public interest,” the chief secretary said. “It will help us become cleaner and safer. A provision in law needs to be supported by community action and greater awareness,” he added. A notification issued by the health department said the amendment comes into immediate effect. This is the second time the regulation notified on March 13 has been amended. Earlier, the regulation was changed to make wearing of masks mandatory from April 9. Government insiders said the decision was taken as per the Centre’s advisory. Two districts in Odisha — Ganjam and Bhadrak — have already made spitting in public places an offence. On March 14, the Bhubaneswar Municipal Corporation had announced to impose a fine of Rs 500 on any of its employees caught spitting in public places. Earlier on March 13, chief minister Naveen Patnaik had said Covid-19 is an opportunity to quit spitting paan in public, a widely prevalent practise in Odisha. The same day Odisha had declared Covid-19 as a disaster and implemented the Covid regulations under the Epidemic Diseases Act.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhubaneswar/odisha-bans-spitting-in-public-places/articleshow/75207943.cms||---
April 18, 2020||Kolkata||Pregnant women: Kolkata doctors check for symptoms, look into travel history||KOLKATA: Doctors in the city are taking extra precaution while treating pregnant women after recent instances where two women who had just delivered and a health worker tested positive for Covid-19. Gynaecologist Chandrima Dasgupta said, “Since there are no definite guidelines from ICMR or any other apex body about pregnant women, we are generally looking at contact history, travel details or hospitalization history. During clinical examination, we are looking for symptoms of respiratory issues or temperature.” In an ideal situation, doctors said all these patients should undergo screening even if they don’t show symptoms. “But that is not always possible. There is no guideline from ICMR or any one else for this. And it is impossible to conduct random tests on pregnant women in government hospitals,” a gynaecologist attached to a government hospital said. Research is currently under way to understand the impacts of Covid-19 infection on pregnant women. Data are limited, but there is no evidence so far that suggests they are at higher risk of severe illness than the general population, said gynaecologist Queene Aditya. “We are trying our best to tell our patients to take all necessary precautions during tele-consultations. When they come for delivery, we check the temperature and keep asking if they have any symptoms, like respiratory problems,” Aditya said. Though there’s not much information on this available in India, according to a new study, a surprising number of women delivering babies at two New York City hospitals tested positive for Covid-19 without showing symptoms. “People are generally tested for Covid-19 if they have serious symptoms, and so, exactly how many people have the disease is unclear,” said gynaecologist Subhas Haldar. But to prevent the spread in a hospital setting, doctors at Columbia University Irving Medical Center and New York-Presbyterian Allen Hospital recently implemented universal Covid-19 screening for all pregnant women admitted for delivery, he said. “However, due to changes in their bodies and immune systems, we know that pregnant women can be badly affected by some respiratory infections. It is therefore important that they take precautions to protect themselves against Covid-19 and report possible symptoms,” Haldar said, adding that WHO is collating more information on pregnant women in the Covid-19 scenario. Dasgupta said, “We do not know if a woman with Covid-19 can pass the virus to her foetus or baby during pregnancy or delivery. To date, the virus has not been found in samples of amniotic fluid or breast milk.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/pregnant-women-docs-check-for-symptoms-look-into-travel-history/articleshow/75210998.cms||---
April 18, 2020||Kolkata||Kolkata: Gutkha sellers’ new strategy to hoodwink cops||KOLKATA: Chewing tobacco and gutkha are being sold in areas like Burrabazar, Posta, Banstalla and Muktarambabu Street in violation of a central government directive. The sellers have changed their strategy in the face of cop crackdown — they now ferry the items in big bags to certain areas where loyal customers wait. TOI found a man and a woman selling gutkha separately on Muktarambabu Street on Thursday. “We have been coming here daily since the lockdown. People who are addicted need their daily fix,” the woman said. “Anybody caught selling gutkha or chewing tobacco will be prosecuted,” said an officer.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/gutkha-sellers-new-strategy-to-hoodwink-cops/articleshow/75211098.cms||Zeeshan Javed
April 18, 2020||Gurgaon||Seven more Covid cases take Nuh’s count to 55||Gurgaon: Seven more people tested positive for Covid-19 in Nuh (Mewat) on Thursday, taking the total number of cases in the district to 55. Out of these, 53 are active cases as two patients have been discharged. Three of the seven new patients had attended the Tablighi Jamaat (TJ) congregation in Delhi’s Nizamuddin last month. They belong to Nuh. Two others were in the chain of contact of the Jamaat members and are from Akhnaka village. Two more who tested positive had recently been to Latur in Maharashtra and hail from Jakh village, said a government official. The district administration said out of 55 cases in Nuh, 42 are people who had attended the Tabighi Jamaat and another three are in their chain of contact. Ten others are locals, mostly truck drivers and their contacts. While 20 patients are locals, 26 belong to other states. Nine others are foreign nationals. The health department and the district administration are tracking the Jamaat members’ contacts and all those who have been in touch with Covid-19 patients. “We have put 1,923 people under active surveillance, out of which 268 have successfully completed the quarantine period,” the official said, adding that about 339 people have been in touch with patients. Meanwhile, officials said nearly 100 samples were being sent from Nuh to PGI Rohtak for testing on a daily basis. The results of 91 people are expected on Friday. The two patients who have recovered include a 22-year-old man from Kerala, Mohammad, and a man from Jammu and Kashmir, Nashir. They are currently in the government isolation facility at the Polytechnic College in Malab.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/gurgaon/seven-more-covid-cases-take-nuhs-count-to-55/articleshow/75196930.cms||Shubhra Pant
April 18, 2020||Varanasi||Locals caught in lockdown, count on ‘Family Farmers’||Varanasi: Even as the government and social organisations make desperate efforts to ensure that ration and food packets reach the needy, Grihasth, a group of ‘Family Farmers’ — a startup incubated by IIT-BHU — is supplying pure and fresh food items and grocery to customers at their doorstep amid lockdown restrictions. About 225 farmers of eastern UP have been providing fresh and quality food products to consumers on demand for the past two years as part of the campaign ‘Kisan aapke Dwar’. Now, with lockdown enforced in view of coronavirus outbreak, the group has been flooded with orders from its customers. On the concept of ‘family doctors,’ the Grihasth has spearheaded the campaign — ‘Kisan aapke Dwar’ (farmer at your doorstep) and ‘Adopt a farmer’. “The way a family doctor takes care of the health of a family, a family farmer can also help a family lead a healthy life by supplying quality grocery and food items. The family farmers not only bring good health to people, but also cut short their expenses on medicines and pathology tests,” said Dr Dipti, who started the ‘family farmer’ campaign as a startup incubated by IIT-BHU. Mahamana Agri-Business Incubator (IIT-BHU) has supported the Family Farmer movement. Union ministry of agriculture and farmers welfare helped this campaign under the RKVY-Raftaar scheme. “Today, when the Covid-19 lockdown has adversely affected many business, the Grihasth has registered around 40% growth with new household getting connected with its network for doorstep delivery of grocery and food items as people stay indoors,” she said. “Goods are delivered to consumers while maintaining norms of social distancing. More than 110 food products, including pulses, oil, rice, flour, pickles, honey are being supplied to the consumers at their doorsteps. So far over 1,700 houses are connected with the Grihasth,” she added. Apart from home delivery, the campaign is also going to introduce 10 ‘Shops On Wheels’ to supply food products including fresh vegetables and fruits in 30 localities soon. The demand of herbal products like amla juice and powder, aloe vera products, wheat grass and moringa powder has increased during lockdown period. Under this campaign, so far 46 farmers have become ‘family farmers’ of the people, she said adding that these ‘family farmers’ would not only bring good health of people but also cut short their expenses on medicines and pathological tests by providing pure and nutritious food products.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/varanasi/locals-caught-in-lockdown-count-on-family-farmers/articleshow/75209369.cms||Binay Singh
April 18, 2020||Nashik||Dy edu chief tells private school not to withhold result over unpaid fees||Nashik: Acting deputy director of education, Nashik has instructed a private English medium school to not withhold the result of a student, who did not pay the fees for more than a year. The concerned school wanted to hold back the result of the student, as a strict action against the parents, who continuously gave reasons for not paying the fees. “I came to know about the incident through a common source. I looked into the matter and have told the school that withholding the result will be unfair to the student. No school should hold back the result of any student due to unpaid fees,” Nitin Upasani, acting deputy director of education told TOI Upasani suggested that instead of not declaring the child’s result, they should resolve the matter by calling a meeting of parent-teacher association (PTA) without escalating the same. He said that they work for the welfare of students and not for the schools. “The parents as well as the schools should get in touch with him if need arises,” said Upasani.He said that the parents if needed can contact him directly through his official email id. “The schools should not force the parents to pay the fees immediately. The parents should also clear the dues on time so that the schools don’t face problems in releasing the payments of their teaching and non-teaching staff,” he added. After receiving instruction from the state government, the education departments of Zilla Parishad as well as Nashik Municipal Corporation has directed the schools, not to be strict with the fees for the next academic year. Their circular dated March 31 had stated that the schools should be lenient in the matter of fees collection for the academic year 2019-20 and 2020-2021. A provision of easy installments is also to be provided by the schools to the parents due to lockdown situation in the state.According to Upasani, schools in the city are also in the process of preparing the results till class VIII and will start declaring the same through online methods from May 1. These results are on the basis of round the year examinations conducted by the schools as the final examination was cancelled due to the outbreak of Covid-19. “The students will be promoted to the next class on the basis of various tests the schools conducted. The digital report cards of the students will be received by the parents through emails. This will help the schools in preparing for the next academic year as soon as they reopen,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/dy-edu-chief-tells-private-school-not-to-withhold-result-over-unpaid-fees/articleshow/75212029.cms||pragya jain
April 18, 2020||Business||Now, non-hyperlocal delivery firms help ease supply woes||Chennai: It takes upto 5 days to get a slot for grocery delivery from online grocery platforms such as BigBasket or Grofers. Following food delivery firms which recently began delivering grocery, clutch of companies which are not traditionally operating in the hyperlocal delivery space are now selling essentials online and promising delivery within 24 or 48 hours.Retail-tech company Perpule which offers self-checkout and express payment services has now launched StoreSe.in that promises delivery in 24 hours. The company partners with Ola and Uber cab drivers to deliver the essentials, charging customers Rs 75 per order. “These proceeds go to the drivers and we have grocery coming in from the neighbourhood stores and big retailers. The company currently has over 900 apartments ordering on their app within a week of launch and claim to offer a 90% fulfilment rate.Community management startups such as NoBroker and MyGate have also begun taking orders for grocery. Partnering with brands and the B2B wings of grocery e-tailers like BigBasket or Grofers, these companies ensure a certain amount of stock for its users as the orders are placed in bulk. “We saw 200 orders on day 1 and upto 2,000 societies are ordering on our app,” said Amit Kumar Agarwal, co-founder and CEO, NoBroker.comMyGate in partnership with Grofers has a page dedicated for its users. While the stocks are displayed on the app, the delivery still happens through the third party (i.e. the grocery e-tailer). “It takes the load away from the delivery agents since it happens in bulk at the same time. Out of stock and late delivery is mitigated since fewer delivery personnel would be needed for a large number of orders,” said Abhishek Kumar, COO, MyGate.Also joining the bandwagon are e-commerce enablers such as Shiprocket, Meesho and fitness companies such as Cure.fit. Shiprocket promises same day and next day deliveries. “E-commerce sellers tend to lose out on customers when order deliveries are delayed due to the unavailability of delivery agents. We have partnered with logistics providers such as Shadowfax to ease the burden on them. Shops within an 8 km radius are tapped for their stocks. Also, in the current scenario, customers prefer not to wait for more than a day after placing their order, especially for essential items,” Saahil Goel, CEO and co-founder of Shiprocket.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/now-non-hyperlocal-delivery-firms-help-ease-supply-woes/articleshow/75210990.cms||Aparna Desikan
April 18, 2020||Kolkata||Kolkata seniors find it tough to survive without helps||KOLKATA: A sizeable population of elderly residents entirely dependent on hired nurses — from feeding medicines to helping relieve themselves — has emerged as the most vulnerable in this lockdown. Most of them are lying helpless at home with nurses and helps unable to reach them because of the restrictions. A 73-year-old former central government official, Minati Kundu, suffers from arthritis and high BP. But she has now become the sole worker in the house looking after her 74-year-old comatose husband Alak and 96-year-old mother, Surama Gantait. Both are bed-ridden and dependent on outside help. Kundu’s only son and daughter-in-law live in Los Angeles, California. “We had two sets of nurses looking after them, but two days into the lockdown, they stopped coming. Apparently, they were stopped by their neighbours from going outside. As a result, I now have to do everything by myself — shopping, cooking and then feeding the two bed-ridden persons. My husband has to be fed with a riles tube, but the issue with my mother is that she is relieving herself in bed and has developed bed sores. I have no idea how to manage this situation,” said Kundu, a resident of Sakherbazar in Behala. Lake Gardens resident Swapan Dutta, 83, lives alone in a standalone flat while her only daughter works in Hyderabad. “My father is entirely dependent on ayahs. We had a full-time ayah who feeds him medicines, cooks light food and also cleans him up. She went home to Diamond Harbour just before the lockdown and since then, she has been stuck there. My neighbours are helping look after him, but there are irregularities and I can’t complain,” said his daughter Priyanka. Residents of a housing complex in Joka, Banabir Mukherjee, 92, and Pradip Bhattacharya, 77, faced a similar crisis until their neighbours came forward to ensure maids and helps were allowed to visit the couple as part of an extreme emergency situation. “We have checked the government advisory that states that we should deal with cases related to elderly persons with sympathy. These persons are entirely dependent on helps and cannot survive without their support. Hence, although they had initially stopped coming, we have ensured the maids and helps come here but follow social distancing and personal hygiene protocols,” said Subhankar Majumdar, a resident of Genexx Valley in Joka. A Kolkata Police officer said although the lockdown doesn’t allow anyone to travel or visit other homes unless in case of an emergency, there is no clear instruction on ayahs and nurses. “The decision regarding ayahs and nurses are being taken on humanitarian grounds on a case-to-case basis. Any elderly person in trouble should contact the local police station or dial 100 and all necessary help will be provided to them,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/city-seniors-struggle-to-survive-without-helps/articleshow/75211020.cms||Tamaghna Banerjee
April 18, 2020||Kolkata||Packaging material crisis hits medicines, biscuit supply in Kolkata||KOLKATA: For over a week, biscuits of major brands have started disappearing from the markets across the city since shortage of packaging materials — primarily plastic — has disrupted the supply chain. Like biscuits, many essential items are supplied in packages — almost 90% of packaging material for medicines is plastic. Ironically, the demand for packaged goods has gone up since customers don’t want to buy loose items to avoid health risks. Packaged items are unavailable in the southern and northern fringes, while, in the city, the stock is depleting fast. “We are selling loose groceries, be it salt, pulses, sugar or rice. The materials are coming in sacks and we are weighing and selling. It has made our jobs strenuous and time consuming. This is one of the reasons why the queues are getting longer,” said Arup Saha of Saha Tradersin south Kolkata. “The packaging materials are trickling in. This is the reason why some grocery items are not available in the retail chains, triggering speculation of shortage,” said a manager of a retail chain. Absence of packaged items has sent many customers into a tizzy. “I have no faith in the quality of loose materials. This is the time when one needs packaged items the most, yet they are unavailable,” said Bratin Tarafdar, a retired government employee. In case of medicine manufacturers, it is a greater crisis. “Since 80%-90% of our products are packaged in plastic containers or blister packs, the shortage has hit us hard. We want our supply line intact, but we cannot supply medicine in big containers and ask the buyer to bring their own box to carry home a few medicines,” said a medium-scale medicine manufacturer. “Our supply chain is crippled by a labourer issue and many manufacturing units are operating on a lower scale. The goods are coming, but the distribution channels are disrupted. My warehouse has enough stock, but my warehouse keeper is absent and the delivery mechanism is disrupted. So the packaging materials are not reaching the place where staples are packaged,” said a senior office bearer of Indian Plastic Federation and a Reliance dealer. “The government must react quickly or we may have serious shortages by the month-end,” said an industry insider.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/packaging-material-crisis-hits-med-biscuit-supply/articleshow/75211063.cms||Krishnendu Bandyopadhyay
April 18, 2020||Business||RBI allows states to borrow Rs 19k cr more through WMA option||MUMBAI: The RBI has allowed states to borrow about Rs 19,200 crore more from it through the Ways & Means Advance (WMA) window. This will be a huge help since most revenue streams are now chocked due to the lockdown, even as expenses rise manifold since states are at the forefront fighting the pandemic. The central bank said states will be allowed to borrow up to 60% over the March 2020 limit through WMA window. Under the enhanced limit, all states together can now borrow up to Rs 51,500 crore from the RBI. Historical data shows that in FY19, the last available full-year data, only 14 states had availed of this window, utilising about 14% of the total limit. Cash-rich states like Maharashtra and Andhra Pradesh rarely used it, analysts said. However, the situation may be different this year. Crisil Ratings senior director Subodh Rai said the RBI move to crank up WMA limits would provide much-needed liquidity relief for states that are seeing a significant decline in tax revenues because of the near-halt in commercial and industrial activities. “Such revenues account for nearly 45% of their overall annual receipts. The WMA leeway will provide an additional Rs 19,225 crore to states, which should help them meet immediate payment obligations such as salaries and sharpen their focus on fighting the Covid-19 pandemic,” Rai said. Due to the nationwide lockdown, almost all the major revenue channels like GST, sales tax on petro products, excise duty on liquor and entertainment tax have been nearly wiped out. There is also uncertainty about when the states will receive their share of central taxes. In such a situation, the RBI’s decision will allow them to borrow more from it till September 30 this year.If states use the WMA facility to get more funds and borrow less from the market, that will also curtail crowding out in the bond auction space, which in turn will help the central government keep its borrowing costs under check, economists said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/rbi-allows-states-to-borrow-rs-19k-cr-more-through-wma-option/articleshow/75211591.cms||---
April 18, 2020||Patna||Patna: At risk, but ferrying people in medical emergency||PATNA: Despite restrictions on public transport during the ongoing lockdown, autorickshaw driver Ranjay Kumar ferry people in urgent need of medical treatment. Ranjay, who parks his autorickshaw near Patna Junction, said he gets several passengers everyday but helps only those with severe health ailments. “People with no means of private transportation often come to me for help. However, I deny those who do not have any medical emergency. As I do not have any pass for plying my vehicle on the road, it becomes really difficult to convince the policemen, who ask me to show documents,” he said, adding that he charges nominal fare for ferrying medical passengers. Asked about precautions while carrying patients, Ranjay said he wears mask throughout the day and even after reaching home. “I make sure to use sanitiser and change my clothes before coming in contact with my family members, especially my old mother, as senior citizens are more vulnerable to the virus,” he said. Further talking about his hassles, Ranjay said: “Recently, a dialysis patient in extreme pain boarded my autorickshaw. I wasn’t questioned by the cops while taking him to a private hospital. However, while returning from there, I was stopped at several places by the cops, who were not ready to accept that I helped someone in urgent need of medical help.” The 35-year-old is the only bread earner in his family of five. “As my only source of income has stopped, it has become very difficult for me to meet the basic needs of my family. My landlord has asked me to give the house rent several times, but I am helpless right now,” he said. Ranjay has been working since a very young age, first as a helper in carrying goods and later as an autorickshaw driver. He recently bought his own vehicle with the savings of past few years. Ranjay is, however, disappointed with the government as he claims that people like him are not getting any support. “Despite all claims, hundreds of autorickshaw drivers have not received any help from the authorities. We don’t have ration cards, but hunger doesn’t see all this. We work day and night to ferry people from one place to another but, in return, we are getting nothing,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/at-risk-but-ferrying-people-in-medical-emergency/articleshow/75208142.cms||Archi Rani
April 18, 2020||Patna||Seven from Siwan reach Patna, quarantined||PATNA: Seven persons from Siwan were picked up by police from East Indira Nagar under Kanakarbagh police station in Patna and quarantined at College of Commerce centre. They were picked up on complaints lodged by local residents about the outsiders on Thursday. It was not clear how they managed to reach Patna as Siwan borders have been sealed after the maximum 29 Covid cases were reported from the district. Sources said the family of seven persons reached here on Wednesday night and stayed at the residence of their relatives. But alert neighbours informed the police next day. Kankarbagh police station SHO Manoranjan Bharti said, “A district control room team took them to the college quarantine centre after proper medical screening.” When contacted, ADG (headquarters) Jitendra Kumar said it was being inquired as how they reached Patna from Siwan and if they were issued passes for movement. Hours before the Kankarbagh incident, police raided a house at Indrapuri under Patliputra police station on Thursday on information from the residents about two outsiders staying there. Patliputra SHO SK Shahi said, “A man and his pregnant wife had taken shelter at his friend’s house due to financial issues and lack of food. The couple was from Ramkrishna Nagar police station area in Patna. We got the couple’s antecedents verified and allowed them to stay there.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/7-from-siwan-reach-city-quarantined/articleshow/75208295.cms||---
April 18, 2020||Patna||Sleepless nights for kin of stranded migrant workers||PATNA: Rekha Devi, a resident of Gopalpur in Madhepura district, is worried about the well-being of her 26-year-old son Deeraj Sahni, who is stranded at Phagwara in Kapurthala district of Punjab due to lockdown to prevent spread of Covid-19. Devi, who is in her late 50s, prays every morning from the Sun God to keep the family’s only bread earner hale and hearty. Though she talks to Dheeraj twice a day to know her health, Devi is anxiously waiting for the lockdown to end. She became a little nervous when asked about the family’s worry for Dheeraj. “Yah kab tak aur chalega? Kya lamba intazaar karna padega? (How long it will continue? Will it last long?),” she asked. Dheeraj’s is not an isolated case. As per figures available with the state government, as many as 13.36 lakh migrant workers are stranded in other states, while 60,000 have contacted the government seeking assistance. Azmat Ansari (46), a resident of Drupganj in Bhagalpur district is stranded at Noida along with 130 migrant workers from the same panchayat. Azmat’s father Abdul Ghani Ansari (70) finds it difficult to express his worries about his married son. “Hum kaise batayen kya haal hai. Sabhi chintit hain (How can we express our concern about him. All are anxious),” he said. Azmat’s 65-year-old mother Shamima Khatoon said, “I keep mum when my six grandchildren ask about Azmat. Allah sab thik karenge (The Almighty will set everything right),” she said, adding the only solace is that Azmat is not alone there. Like Azmat, at least 15 people from the village are stranded there. A local resident has come forward to lend his support to the migrant workers from Bihar at this juncture. Video call facility has, however, come as a handy for families of stranded migrant workers. Deputy CM Sushil Kumar Modi, on the other hand, has made a fervent appeal to the relatives of migrant workers to psychologically convince them to stay wherever they are. “Once the lockdown is lifted, the Centre and the state government will automatically facilitate the resumption of train and bus services for their return,” Modi said. He added that 6.67 lakh out of 13.36 migrant workers, who had applied online seeking monetary assistance, have been provided Rs 1,000 each through direct benefit transfer scheme. Modi said monetray assistance had been provided to 1.30 lakh Bihari migrant workers in Delhi, 95,999 in Haryana, 72,243 in Maharashtra, 61,944 in Gujarat, 37,771 in Punjab, 26,844 in Rajasthan, 26,311 in Tamil Nadu, 25,181 in West Bengal and 266 in Andaman & Nicobar Islands. “The Bihar government has also been coordinating with other state governments to extend all possible help to the trapped migrant workers,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/sleepless-nights-for-kin-of-stranded-migrant-workers/articleshow/75208090.cms||Ramashankar
April 18, 2020||Patna||Scuffle in Darbhanga over Covid screening||DARBHANGA: An accredited social health activist (ASHA) and a police party were roughed up by a family in Bhalpatti village under Darbhanga Sadar police station in the district on Friday. The trained woman community health activist was screening people at the village for Covid-19 when members of a family misbehaved with her and torn the register she was carrying to make entries. The health activist belonged to the same village and her family members also protested. A scuffle took place between the two families. On getting information, a police party reached the village and arrested the main accused. That led to retaliation by his family members, who tried to snatch him away from the police custody. Skirmishes broke out between the police party and the relatives of the accused Mirza Javed Beg, who was finally brought to the police station. An FIR was lodged in this connection. Darbhanga Sadar SDPO Anoj Kumar said the accused person’s arrest was resisted by his relatives but finally the situation was brought under control.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/scuffle-in-darbhanga-over-covid-screening/articleshow/75208170.cms||---
April 18, 2020||Cuttack||Odisha bans spitting in public places||BHUBANESWAR: The Odisha government on Friday banned spitting in public places. While a fine of Rs 200 will be imposed on the first three violations, the amount will go up to Rs 500 after that, chief secretary Asit Tripathy said. The Odisha Covid-19 Regulations-2020 framed under the Epidemic Diseases Act, 1897, has been modified making spitting a cognizable and compoundable offence, the top bureaucrat said. The fine can be imposed by block extension officers, assistant subinspectors of police, municipal ward and higher rank officers. “Apart from being an important step to prevent the spread of the novel coronavirus, avoiding spitting in public places will help check the spread of several other diseases. People should cooperate with the government for their own good and in the larger public interest,” the chief secretary said. “It will help us become cleaner and safer. A provision in law needs to be supported by community action and greater awareness,” he added. A notification issued by the health department said the amendment comes into immediate effect. This is the second time the regulation notified on March 13 has been amended. Earlier, the regulation was changed to make wearing of masks mandatory from April 9. Government insiders said the decision was taken as per the Centre’s advisory. Two districts in Odisha — Ganjam and Bhadrak — have already made spitting in public places an offence. On March 14, the Bhubaneswar Municipal Corporation had announced to impose a fine of Rs 500 on any of its employees caught spitting in public places. Earlier on March 13, chief minister Naveen Patnaik had said Covid-19 is an opportunity to quit spitting paan in public, a widely prevalent practise in Odisha. The same day Odisha had declared Covid-19 as a disaster and implemented the Covid regulations under the Epidemic Diseases Act.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/cuttack/odisha-bans-spitting-in-public-places/articleshow/75219326.cms||---
April 18, 2020||Noida||Noida: Dialysis patient told to get Covid-19 test first, dies||NOIDA: A 50-year-old woman died waiting for her dialysis to begin after the private hospital she visited advised her to get a Covid-19 test done first because she showed symptoms. Authorities at Yatharth Hospital in Sector 110 cited a health department advisory that said anyone showing symptoms should be directed to a government facility first. Ratnamma, a resident of Grand Omaxe in Sector 93 and mother of an official in the Union ministry of health and family welfare, died in the early hours of Thursday. She was diagnosed with renal failure in January this year and had been undergoing regular dialysis at Yatharth since then. Ratnamma had undergone her last dialysis at Yatharth this Monday. Her son Raju Gilgitta, an assistant section officer with the ministry, said she was doing fine when she was discharged from the hospital on Monday evening but started having breathing problems later that night. “We called an ambulance on Wednesday evening and took her to Yatharth. Her temperature was checked at the gate and she was admitted at the dialysis unit. Later, a doctor at the emergency ward said my mother was running a temperature of 103.2°F and had breathing problems. She needed to get a Covid test done first,” Raju told TOI. Raju had a tough time arranging for an ambulance all by himself. “The hospital did not arrange for an ambulance. I dialled the emergency numbers — 102 and 108 — but the drivers did not know whether to send a general ambulance or one kept for Covid patients. As the clock ticked, I decided to take my mother home. A private car was sent by my society’s AoA and we got her home late that night,” he said. Raju sought suggestions from doctors in his housing society, and it was eventually decided that Ratnamma would be taken for a Covid test. She died around 5am on Thursday. Authorities at Yatharth Hospital said they had received guidelines from the health department that they should not admit any person showing symptoms of the virus. “The patient had undergone dialysis here earlier as well. She was diagnosed with fever and had breathing problems, which is why they were asked to get a test done. A Covid test can only happen at a government facility. Even if the patient required dialysis, the procedure can be done at a government facility. Since she was prescribed a Covid test, it was clear she had to be taken to a government hospital,” said Dr Kapil Tyagi, director of Yatharth Hospital. The health department’s guidelines lack clarity in terms of admission of such patients. An advisory issued to private hospitals by the chief medical officer on April 8 referred to three patients who had undergone surgeries at different health facilities in Noida and tested positive later. “Hence, you are being requested that before carrying out any procedure, you should get a Covid-19 test done and also get the premises sanitised as per protocol,” the advisory reads.. “I am not aware of this specific case. However, we have already issued instructions to the three Covid hospitals regarding handling of suspected patients. We’ll be doing the same for non-Covid hospitals also soon,” said Narendra Bhooshan, nodal officer for handling Covid-19 response in the district. Health department officials were unavailable for comment.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/noida/noida-dialysis-patient-told-to-get-covid-19-test-first-dies/articleshow/75212905.cms||Shikha Salaria
April 18, 2020||Patna||Lockdown fails to arrest Bihar's crime graph||PATNA: The Covid-19 lockdown has brought nearly everything to a standstill in the state except for crimes, which continue unabated. On Friday, two people were killed and another seriously injured in three incidents in Muzaffarpur, Rohtas and Gopalganj districts respectively, while six people were seriously injured in a violent clash in Nawada. In Muzaffarpur, a 38-year-old schoolteacher was stabbed to death at Nazirpur early on Friday morning. The teacher, Rajesh Kumar, was attacked around 3 am while he was asleep in his house. He was taken to the Sri Krishna Medical College and Hospital where the doctors declared him brought dead. “The deceased’s wife Rita Devi has been detained for interrogation and the incident appeared to be a fallout of her extra-marital affair with a neighbour. The weapon used in the gruesome killing has not been recovered from the spot,” Ahiyapur SHO Vikas Kumar Rai said, adding, there were at least 20 stab wounds on the victim’s body. An investigating officer said that the deceased’s minor daughter Priyanka told the police that the couple used to quarrel over her affair with a neighbour, who has gone into hiding. In Rohtas, a 20-year-old man was shot dead by unidentified people on Friday. The deceased, Sanjiv Kumar, was sleeping in his house when he was shot in the head. “The reason is yet to be ascertained. The body has been sent to Sadar hospital at Sasaram for post-mortem and the autopsy report is awaited,” said an investigating officer. A report from Gopalganj said three-motorbike borne men fire two shots at a 55-year-old farmer Sadanand Bhagat on Friday. He was taken to the Sadar hospital from where he was referred to Gorakhpur. A property dispute is believed to be the reason behind the murderous attack on Bhagat. Gopalganj SDPO Naresh Paswan said, “We are probing the incident from all angles and gathering scientific evidence against the culprits.” In Nawada, five members of Mahadalit community received gunshot injuries when a man belonging to another community fire at them. While one of them is critically injured and has been referred to Vardhaman Institute of Medical Sciences, Pawapuri in Nalanda district, two have been taken to the sadar hospital at Nawada. SDPO Mukesh Sao said raids were on to nab the culprits, who are absconding. On Thursday, a priest was killed in Siwan, close on the heels of gang rape of a 15-year-old girl in Saran district. Earlier, two minor girls, were raped at a village in Katihar district while a 22-year-old old youth was killed under Halai police outpost in Samastipur district on Sunday. Such incidents are just the tip of the iceberg. “Crime of all huesare taking place across the state. Many incidents are going unreported due to the lockdown. People’s movement has been restricted so people prefer not to report the incident to police unless and until it is of serious nature,” said social activist Pramod Kumar. Additional DGP (headquarters) Jitendra Kumar said, “It’s true that the police are more focussed on enforcing the lockdown to check the spread of coronavirus these days, but policing is being done at the same time. Our responsibility has increased manifold. But we are trying to come to the expectations of the common people.” (With inputs from S B Sinha in Nawada)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/lockdown-fails-to-arrest-state-crime-graph/articleshow/75208413.cms||Ramashankar
April 18, 2020||Patna||Bihar: Health workers screen 48 lakh people in two days||PATNA: Around 48.4 lakh people from 9 lakh households were screened in 25 districts, including Covid-19 hotspots Siwan, Nawada, Begusarai and Nalanda, till Friday evening as part of the state government’s door-to-door campaign to combat the deadly virus. In a bid to prevent community transmission of coronavirus in Bihar, Asha and health workers as well as 8,000 teams involved in polio eradication programme have started door-to-door campaign in the four hotspot districts and other vulnerable areas across the state to identify the suspects. The Asha and other health workers have been given the task of screening influenza-like illness (ILI) and severe acute respiratory illness (SARI) patients. Sanjay Kumar, principal secretary of health department, said the campaign started on Thursday. “The teams are screening people who reached the state from abroad between March 1 and March 23,” he said. Health department additional secretary Manoj Kumar said in Siwan, the health workers have covered 65,000 households and screened 3.89 lakh people. “In Nawada, altogether 1.92 lakh people have been screened in 38,000 houses. Similarly, 78,000 and 62,000 households have been covered in Nalanda and Begusarai districts, respectively. “About 3.95 lakh people have been screened in Nalanda and 2.6 lakh in Begusarai,” Manoj added. “In first phase, the teams will cover four hotspot districts and some other areas where the Covid-19 cases were detected. The teams will identify symptomatic and suspected patients and collect samples for testing at block level,” Manoj said. Begusarai DM Arvind Kumar Verma said around 6 lakh households would be covered in the district in next five days. Gaya DM Abhishek Singh said 700 teams have fanned out to the more vulnerable areas of the district to identify people having Covid-19 symptoms.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/health-workers-screen-48l-people-in-two-days/articleshow/75208075.cms||Faryal Rumi
April 18, 2020||Patna||Elderly in Patna hit hard by lockdown||PATNA: The extended lockdown has left senior citizens, who live alone in the city, in trouble as many of them are finding it difficult to go to grocery stores, medicine shops and healthcare facilities due to lack of their own transportation. The senior citizens are also scared of coming out of their homes as according to health experts, people above 60 years of age are more vulnerable to Covid-19. Bishram Singh (68) and his wife Urmila Kumari Sinha (a cancer survivor) are completely dependent on their servant-cum-driver Sanjay Kumar, who helps the elderly couple in getting essential items and medicines. Singh, a resident of Professor Colony in Kankarbagh, said his two sons – Neeraj, finance head in a multinational company in Mumbai and Manish, an IT engineer in Pune – could not return home due to the lockdown. “However, they call up every day to enquire about us,” Singh said. He added, “Sanjay brings all essential items and medicines for us and leave the same at the doorstep. He is a great help to us in this situation. As far as cooking is concerned, we somehow manage to do it. Sometimes, our tenant sends us cooked food.” Mohd Khursheed (73), who lives with his wife and sister in Samanpura locality, said they find it difficult to keep the house clean and cook food. “All of us are above 65 and suffering from multiple health ailments. As we have stopped taking help from our servant owing to fear of transmission of the virus, we request our neighbours to buy essential items for us. Some youths living in the locality always help us,” he said. Suchitra Choudhary (75), a widow, is also finding it difficult to do household chores and stock essential items. “I bought essential items and medicines in bulk as my servant has stopped coming to the house due to the lockdown. My son Anumay lives in UK and could not manage to return home due to the lockdown. Both my daughters – Guddi and Mimi – are with their husbands in Gujarat and Delhi, respectively. I am totally dependent on my neighbours,” Suchitra, a resident of Rajendra Nagar road number 12, added. Kripa Sharan (88), an artist, who retired from state information and public relations department, spends time in the company of plants at his home. “They are like my kids and I love to see them grow,” he said. “All my kids are living in Delhi. I live alone with my wife Shyama at our house in Sri Krishna Nagar. Fortunately, we got everything from the grocery and medicine shops. They delivered items at home. The milkman, vegetable and fruit sellers visit our doorstep ,” Sharan said. N K Choudhary (70), a retired Patna University teacher and a bachelor, who lives in a flat on Budh Marg, spends his time reading philosophy and political science books and solving mathematics problems. “I was a social science professor. However, I took interest in other subjects as well. I am not experiencing any problem in getting essential items as I place orders online. Thanks to the district administration, the vegetable and fruit sellers visit the locality in the morning and evening hours,” Choudhary said. Centre’s advisory for senior citizens: The Centre has listed several dos and don’ts for senior citizens. It says elderly people should stay at home all the time. “If the elderly people are living alone, they may take help of their healthy neighbours to get essential items. The elderly people should refrain from inviting anyone and hugging and shaking hands with people to avoid infection. Due to summer, it is recommended that the senior citizens consume adequate water to prevent dehydration,” the Centre’s advisory said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/elderly-hit-hard-by-lockdown/articleshow/75208264.cms||Faryal Rumi
April 18, 2020||Patna||Salary, pension elude university teachers in Bihar||PATNA: University teachers in the state are facing a tough time due to non-payment of salaries for the month of March. Even retired teachers of some universities have not received their pension till date. Incidentally, teachers have been assigned the task of preparing e-content and conducting online classes during the ongoing lockdown. As most of them are confined to their homes for the last one month, they have to make most of their payments online. And, many of them are facing hardships owing to non-availability of sufficient funds in their bank accounts. Expressing grave concern over non-payment of salaries and pension, secretary, Federation of University Service Teachers’ Association (FUSTAB) of Bihar, Dilip Kumar Chaudhary, MLC, blamed the university officials for the delay in payment of salaries and pension. He said that as most of the officials, including vice-chancellors of different universities are away from their headquarters, the universities are facing difficulty in making the payment. “In LN Mithila University, neither the working teachers nor the retired teachers have been paid their salaries or pension for the last month. The teachers have also been denied payment of arrears of their pay revision even though the government has released total grants to the university,” Chaudhary said. FUSTAB working president K B Sinha also criticized the apathy of university authorities towards working as well as retired teachers. “Teachers of Magadh University have not been paid their salaries for the month of March and teachers of Patliputra University, who have retired during the last 10 months, are yet to get their monthly pension. Surprisingly enough, the government has already released the required fund to the universities with a clear instruction to pay all the dues to the teachers on the date of their superannuation itself,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/salary-pension-elude-university-teachers/articleshow/75208239.cms||---
April 18, 2020||Patna||AES spreading in north Bihar, 23 cases reported||PATNA: Amid Coronavirus pandemic, the Acute Encephalitis Syndrome (AES), also known as brain fever, has started spreading its tentacles in north Bihar. At least 23 cases of AES have been reported from Muzaffarpur, East Champaran and Sheohar districts since January this year. While one of them died, three were released after their condition improved. While nine out of 14 cases reported to the paediatric intensive care unit (PICU) at sadar hospital in Motihari were released, five are still undergoing treatment. In Muzaffapur, out of nine children admitted to the SKMCH, one died and three others were released. Both Vaishali and Sheohar districts reported one case each this year. SKMCH superintendent Dr S K Shahi said, “Altogether nine cases of AES were reported this year. While one of them died, three others were released. Five are still undergoing treatment at the PICU here.” Head of the paediatrics department Dr GS Sahni said, “Another AES patient, a five-year-old girl from East Champaran district, is showing improvement. The facility is taking care of all the patients.” It may be mentioned here that SKMCH alone accounted for 120 deaths of children below the age of 15 years due to AES last year. The rising number of cases this year has, however, set the alarming bells ringing in the state health department, which is grappling with Covid-19 pandemic. Meanwhile, Muzaffarpur DM Chandrashekhar Singh assessed the work undertaken under the state government’s welfare schemes for the AES hit families under five worst affected blocks—Motipur, Bochaha, Musahari, Minapur and Kanti--of the district. During the review meeting, the officials informed the DM that work has already started in 1,427 wards under 102 panchayats. The work under tap water supply to households in affected areas was also reviewed at the meeting, a source in the district administration said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/aes-spreading-in-north-bihar-23-cases-reported/articleshow/75208435.cms||Ramashankar
April 18, 2020||Patna||300 attendees of Biharsharif meet traced||PATNA: Around 300 people, who had attended the religious gathering in a mosque at Biharsharif in Nalanda district on March 14 and 15, have been traced in different districts of the state, ADG (headquarters) Jitendra Kumar said on Friday. Around 640 people had attended the Biharsharif meeting and one of them had later tested positive for Covid-19 in Nawada district. “The remaining over 300 attendees were from Jharkhand. Information about them has been shared with the Jharkhand government,” Kumar said, adding 36 persons from Bihar were yet to be traced. He said the details of all the participants from Bihar have been shared with the health department for their testing and isolation as per requirement. “They were traced with help of details gathered by the Nalanda district administration as well as through information shared by the head of the gathering, who had reached there from different districts,” he said. Two persons who attended the gathering at Biharsharif have so far tested positive for Covid-19. However, 14 persons of Biharsharif, who attended the conference at Sheikhana, were tested negative. “Their family members and other suspected contacts were also found negative for coronavirus. Screening of several residents of the locality had been found asymptomatic but most of them have been quarantined,” a health department official in Nalanda said. Nawada DM Yash Pal Meena said following contact tracing of the first patient, they came to know that six persons from the district had attended the Biharsharif gathering. “The other five had tested negative. Altogether 75 more persons from contact tracing of the six were also tested, but their results were negative,” he said. Meanwhile, Munger SP Lipi Singh said 25 persons from her district had attended the gathering and only one tested Covid-19 positive. “The administration has quarantined 30 persons who might have come in contact with the Covid-19 positive participant,” she said. (With inputs from Farrukh Nadim in Biharsharif)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/300-attendees-of-biharsharif-meet-traced/articleshow/75208382.cms||Debashish Karmakar
April 18, 2020||Gurgaon||How local biz & buses are driving city’s lockdown delivery network||Gurgaon: After hitting a few supply chain glitches going into the lockdown, the Gurgaon administration has come up with a procurement and delivery plan that could be a template for all cities. The Municipal Corporation of Gurgaon (MCG) now acts as a link between residents and the state administration to get groceries, vegetables and fruits delivered at the doorstep fresh from wholesale markets and mandis — by buses, too, if required. And all this is in keeping with specific requirements of residents. “We ask our residents what they need, collate it and mail it to MCG. Groceries are delivered within a day, and fruits and vegetables take two days,” said CP Singh, vice president of DLF Phase 2 RWA. The society is one of 12 — across both containment zones and lockdown areas — that have been using the service for the past 10 days. About 1 lakh households are part of the delivery network by now. The MCG then forwards the lists to the food and supplies department for groceries and the Haryana Marketing Board for fruits and vegetables. “We, then, get in touch with the wholesalers’ and retailers’ association to figure out which groceries vendor we should approach for which area,” said Monika Malik, director of the food & supplies department. The marketing board, similarly, goes by the lists to procure vegetables from the Khandsa mandi and fruits from the Azadpur mandi. The groceries are carried to societies in buses, provided by Gurugram Metropolitan City Bus Limited, and sometimes in small pickup vans, provided by the Road Transport Authority or the MCG, at times coordinated with RWAs. The produce is taken to societies directly by the vendors, again, at a time coordinated with the RWAs. When residents step out to collect what they have ordered, volunteers ensure social distancing is maintained. The system works well for both the vendors and the residents — it’s cheaper, better and ensures steady business for vendors who may otherwise have incurred losses. Because items are procured from larger markets, people pay wholesale rates for groceries and mandi rates for produce. “Prices of vegetables are at least 25% cheaper,” said Shashi, a vegetable vendor. Residents are happy that they get fresh fruits and vegetables delivered without any hassle. “We are very happy with the quality of produce we are getting,” said Colonel Sanjay Sharma, a resident of Sispal Vihar in Sector 49. Besides, because all deliveries are based on orders, there is no rush or lining up to buy things before others do. There is a sense of apprehension, though. “We wear masks and sanitise our hands all the time. But what if we come in contact with someone who has Covid-19?” asked Om Prakash, who drives a mini truck supplying groceries. Government officials involved in the project said demand is likely to rise as more people get to know about the service. If that happens, supply chain management might become a challenge, especially with the onset of summer. For the vendors, it has to be business as usual: “It’s our job. We have to do it.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/gurgaon/how-local-biz-buses-are-driving-citys-lockdown-delivery-network/articleshow/75196899.cms||Shubhra Pant
April 18, 2020||Gurgaon||Students promoted but where will textbooks for new session come from?||Gurgaon: Even though students from classes 1 to 8 have been promoted without exams for the 2020-21 session and online classes have begun, lack of books has posed a major challenge for those studying in government schools. Owing to the stringent restrictions on mobility, government schools are struggling to transport and deliver textbooks to over 14 lakh students enrolled in public schools across the state. As per the RTE Act, the state government is responsible for distributing books to all those studying in public schools. As a temporary arrangement, the education department has called upon students to mutually exchange textbooks with each other. However, the education minister has stressed the need to follow instructions issued by the health department for the prevention of a coronavirus infection, while exchanging books. Besides, he also requested teachers, principals and management committees of schools to provide support and play an important role in this exchange. “Just like old times when juniors would borrow the books from their seniors, students are encouraged to share books so that academic activities are uninterrupted even during the lockdown. New textbooks will be delivered to students as soon as the lockdown is lifted,” noted an education department official. The department, however, has stressed that social distancing and preventive sanitation measures need to be adhered to. Education minister Kanwar Pal has urged the students to wash their hands with soap immediately after giving or receiving books so as to prevent for any possibility of contracting the infection. Moreover, students have been advised to keep the books somewhere in the house for two days and not touch them during that period. Teachers and students, however, have pointed out some practical challenges in ensuring the successful implementation of this arrangement. While parents wonder why the department cannot distribute books the same way they deliver dry ration to their homes, teachers are not very clear of their roles and see this book exchange as yet another burden on them. “Half of the day we are engaged in online teaching and calling students who don’t have smartphones. Then, we prepare food parcels for home delivery and transport them in cars and bikes without any help from the department. Now, we’ll also have to make lists of seniors and juniors and facilitate the book exchange. Social distancing and home quarantine have become impossible for us. It would have been better if the schools had been open,” complained a school teacher of a government school in the city.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/gurgaon/students-promoted-but-where-will-textbooks-for-new-session-come-from/articleshow/75197036.cms||---
April 18, 2020||Business||RBI’s relief for non-banks to support realty, small biz||NEW DELHI/MUMBAI: The Reserve Bank of India (RBI) on Friday allowed real estate developers up to one more year to start repayment of loans availed from non-banking financial companies (NBFCs). Allowing developers to extend the official date of completion also benefits NBFCs as they can restructure loans without having to classify the borrowers as defaulters. While banks have already been allowed to extend the completion date, NBFCs are major lenders to this segment. “According to the latest data by the RBI, NBFCs’ outstanding credit to the commercial real estate stood at Rs 1,29,359 crore as of end September 2019. The relaxation of NPA (non-performing asset) classification norms and extension of one year for commencement of projects to real estate developers by NBFCs will provide the much-needed relief to the sector,” said JLL India CEO & country head Ramesh Nair. RBI governor Shaktikanta Das also increased the ability of NBFCs to lend by providing liquidity through the refinance route from Sidbi (Rs 15,000 crore) and National Housing Bank (Rs 10,000 crore). He also announced a Rs 50,000-crore funding exclusively to banks who lend to NBFCs through a targeted long-term repo operation (TLTRO 2.0) at a rate of 4.4%. To avail this, banks must invest this in bonds, commercial papers (CPs) and non-convertible debentures (NCDs) of NBFCs. Half of these funds have to be invested according to RBI’s directions — 10% in debt issued by microfinance institutions, 15% in NBFCs with asset size of below Rs 500 crore, and 25% in NBFCs with assets between Rs 500 crore and Rs 5,000 crore. The relief comes at a time when the home ministry allowed NBFCs and cooperative credit societies to restart operations partially with bare minimum staff. According to Nitin Mittal, CEO of Solv, which is a platform for small and medium enterprises, Friday’s measures have the MSME segment as end beneficiaries. “Additional liquidity to NBFCs and incentivisation to banks to lend to growth projects at reasonable rates is a good move. Policies such as these will help a ‘V’-shaped recovery curve of the Indian economy,” he said. Stressed borrowers who have not turned into NPAs on March 1, 2020 can get the extension of three more months before the NPA definition kicks in. This means a stressed developer can repay in 180 days instead of 90 days without being labelled as an NPA. Niranjan Hiranandani, president of Assocham and Naredco, said that the perception that authorities had focused only on saving lives and not livelihoods was dispelled on Friday. Aadhar Housing Finance MD & CEO Deo Shankar Tripathi said that standard classification status of loans as of March 1, 2020 will exclude the 90-day moratorium period from March 1 to May 31, which means the status of loans shall remain at a standstill till May 31. This comes as a big relief to borrowers and lenders.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/rbis-relief-for-non-banks-to-support-realty-small-biz/articleshow/75211623.cms||Prabhakar Sinha
April 18, 2020||Hyderabad||Hyderabad: Containment zones increased to 146 as new cases detected||HYDERABAD: A surge in the new positive cases in the GHMC limits has forced the officials, on Friday, to increase the number of containment areas to 146. In the last two days, 55 cases were detected - 25 on Thursday and 30 on Friday. On the positive side, 16 zones across the city, which were earlier declared as containment clusters, were marked as normal on Friday after no positive case was detected there. Barricading has been removed from these areas. In the 146 containment zones, multi-disciplinary teams are probing the family members and primary contacts of people who tested positive. “Probing primary contacts of the people who have been tested positive is underway. Emphasis is on travel history and the people they met,” said a GHMC official. “I need to visit the bank, so that account holders do not suffer,” urged the bank manager of a PSB, but was denied. “We gave some passes to medical staff and a few people wanted to visit hospital. After the purpose was solved, the passes were given to other people who tried to misuse it. We caught them and warned of stringent action,” said a GHMC official. Mayor Bonthu Rammohan warned people who are stepping out without reason. “As per reports from surveillance teams, 90% of the people caught give medical reasons and some say that they own medical shops. Stringent action will be taken against such people for stepping out without a valid reason,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/containment-zones-increased-to-146-as-new-cases-detected/articleshow/75212048.cms||Nabinder Bommala
April 18, 2020||Business||Infected pizza boy: Online food delivery orders drop 30%||BENGALURU: Following the incident of a 19-year-old pizza delivery boy testing positive for Covid-19 in Delhi, online order volumes across food, grocery, pickup and drop services are down by around 30% in the last 24 hours, three industry sources aware of the matter said. While the delivery executive tested positive on April 14, the matter came to light on Thursday. “It’s unprecedented how the numbers have suddenly gone down after Thursday’s event in Delhi. We reviewed them — it’s down by 30%,” said a founder of a leading hyperlocal delivery startup. Another person at one of the leading food delivery firms said the impact of the Delhi incident was felt more in Delhi-NCR compared to south India. “Especially, pizza orders are down. People are just being more cautious for now, but we hope it will pick up,” this person added. One of the delivery boys of startup Dunzo told TOI he had got only three orders by Friday afternoon, which typically is around 10 by that time. “There are fewer tasks so far after the Delhi incident. My colleagues are also seeing fewer orders,” he added. Food delivery order volumes have significantly gone down during the lockdown compared to days before the virus outbreak. But the volumes are starting to slowly grow on a weekly basis. TOI reported earlier in the week that Swiggy has seen 50-70% growth in order volumes compared to the first week of lockdown when orders fell by over 80%. “Order volumes fluctuate very widely every day. We continue to urge our customers to only order food when they absolutely need to,” a spokesperson of Zomato said. Swiggy declined to comment. “Grocery orders are not impacted as much but there is a direct impact on food orders in the last one day,” the co-founder of another Bengaluru-based delivery startup said. “As far as order volumes are concerned, we are at business-as-usual (BAU) at the moment,” a spokesperson of Dunzo said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/infected-pizza-boy-e-orders-drop-30/articleshow/75211567.cms||Digbijay Mishra
April 18, 2020||Varanasi||Five test positive for coronavirus, Nakkhighat declared fifth hotspot||Varanasi: With the detection of five new Covid-19 cases, including three Tablighi Jamaat attendees, the number of hotspots of coronavirus went up from four to five in Varanasi on Friday. The administration has decided to make Nakkhighat the fifth coronavirus hotspot in the city after a 70-year-old resident tested positive. District magistrate (DM) Kaushal Raj Sharma said, “As per the sample reports received from BHU laboratory on Friday, five more persons including three attendees of Tablighi Jamaat have tested positive for COVID-19. Among the three TJ attendees, a 55-year-old person belongs to Madanpura locality, a 40-year-old person is the native of Hyderabad and one 70-year-old man is resident of Nakkhighat locality.” As many as 27 TJ attendees including these three persons, who had been quarantined at the health department training centre in Shivpur area, were found negative in the fist test. But, in second test the three were found positive, hence they were shifted to the isolation ward of the DDU district hospital. Other 24 TJ attendees have tested negative. Besides, two more persons including a 19-year-old boy and a 21-year-old girl of a family living in Pandey Haweli have also tested positive. Five women from Telangana who had attended Tablighi Jamaat had stayed here in their house for two days. After the contact tracing of TJ attendees, the samples of the two were taken for testing. They have also been shifted to the isolation ward of DDU district hospital. According to the DM, so far 14 positive cases were found in the district out of the five got cured, one died and eight are currently in the isolation ward. The DM said that except the Nakkhighat resident, the four new positive cases are related to Madanpura hotspot. Pandey Haweli and the house of the new positive person and mosque are situated in the buffer zone of this hotspot. There are already two old positive cases in the Madanpura hotspot, and now the number of positive cases rose to six in this hotspot. He said that Nakkhighat is being made a new hotspot with its buffer zone. Now there would be five hotspots and buffer zones in the district.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/varanasi/five-test-positive-for-coronavirus-nakkhighat-declared-fifth-hotspot/articleshow/75209612.cms||Binay Singh
April 18, 2020||Visakhapatnam||Dwindling dry fish trade hits livelihoods||Visakhapatnam: The lockdown has hit the already dwindling dry fish trade in the state, leading to a fall in export to other states. According to recent estimates, dry fish produce worth over Rs 3 crore was spoilt and livelihoods of around 50,000 fish vendors, especially women vendors, has been affected. “Since March 22 transportation has not been available to deliver the produce to wholesalers in the state and outside. These fish vendors or the fishermen don’t have proper storage facilities and within one month the dry fish starts to spoil,” said Arijili Dasu, a fishermen activist to TOI. Andhra Pradesh produces around five lakh tonnes of dry fish in a year, the major part of which is exported to the eastern and north-eastern states and some tribal pockets in Malkangiri in Odisha and Chhattishgarh. Around 10 per cent of the produce is consumed locally – mostly in tribal areas of the Agency. “Normally we start drying fish while on the boat itself. Once we land it takes a couple of days to process the dry fish. If processed properly, the fish can last up to 15 to 25 days without cold storage facility or refrigeration. Since we don’t have any proper storage facilities at all the four dry fish producing harbours – Visakhapatnam, Kakinada, Nizampatnam and Machilipatnam — in the state, all our catch has been spoilt,” said M Bulaya, a fisherman. Fishermen associations have written a letter to Giriraj Singh, Union minister of fisheries asking him to provide compensation of Rs 10,000 to fish vendors and fishermen associated with the trade. “Whatever they have caught before March 22 and produced after March 22 got spoilt. There has been no fresh catch since the last week of March and from April 16 the mandatory fishing ban has been imposed. It means these fishermen and fish vendors would be out of business for over 90 to 100 days,” said Dasu.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/visakhapatnam/dwindling-dry-fish-trade-hits-livelihoods/articleshow/75209551.cms||Arpit Basu
April 18, 2020||Madurai||Minister bows before sanitation workers as a mark of respect||MADURAI: Minister for revenue, IT and disaster management R B Udayakumar, who distributed welfare measures to sanitation workers at Thirumangalam in Madurai on Friday, symbolically bowed down before them to show his respect for their service in the time of Covid-19. The minister participated in a series of events in the city on Friday. He distributed food to the needy at a function, which was organized by the Palamudir Solai Murugan Baktha Sabai. The group usually distributes food every year to thousands of people. This year they have decided to feed the homeless. Later, he recognised the services of the sanitation workers in Thirumangalam municipality and Thirumangalam union. Masks, sanitizers, rice, dhoties, sarees and disinfectants were distributed to them at the function. The sanitary workers were made to sit on chairs before the minister and he symbolically bowed down as if to touch their feet in appreciation. He lauded the efforts of the sanitation workers who played an important role in preventing the spread of the disease. Later, speaking to reporters, he said Madurai district has 32 lakh people with 15 lakh living in the city. Protecting all of them was the priority of the government. People should ensure social distancing, and also keep hygiene standards and refrain from spitting in the open, which is an offence, he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/minister-bows-before-sanitation-workers-as-a-mark-of-respect/articleshow/75212916.cms||---
April 18, 2020||Noida||Noida: Their quarantine over, 256 workers sent home||GREATER NOIDA: Migrant workers in the city, who have spent 14 days in quarantine, are being sent to their native villages in buses, said officials on Friday. Out of the 521 migrant workers who were staying in the 15 shelter homes, 256 have already been sent to their native villages. The latest group comprising 95 workers were sent to various parts of Uttar Pradesh from Jewar on the intervening night of Thursday and Friday. The buses, provided by the State Road Transport Corporation, are being used to ferry the workers to the district headquarters. The decision was taken following Uttar Pradesh government’s directive to identify migrants who are from the State and make arrangements to send them home after proper screening. The buses have been roped in to transport the workers to Moradabad, Amroha, Bareilly, Sambhal, Aligarh, Budaon, Rampur, Deoria, Kushinagar and Gorakhpur in the early hours, said officials. The local sub-divisional magistrate gives a letter to the bus driver and conductor and passes to the workers. The letter stays valid for 24 hours. The staff at the shelter homes are told to ensure that the migrant worker has spent at least 14 days there and have no symptoms. Tehsildar of Jewar sub-division, Durgesh Singh, said each worker is provided with 10kg rice, 10kg flour, 2kg pulses, 2kg chickpea, 1 litre oil, turmeric powder, salt and other basic spices in a bag. “The idea is to ensure they do not venture out till May 3,” added Singh. A list containing the names of migrants, who are sent home, is shared with senior officials in Lucknow for further coordination. The authorities also roped in local policemen to escort the worker safely to their homes.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/noida/their-quarantine-over-256-workers-sent-home/articleshow/75212913.cms||Shalabh
April 18, 2020||Chennai||20% patients discharged; 56 more positive cases in Tamil Nadu||CHENNAI: A total of 103 patients were cured and discharged from hospital across the state taking their total number to more than 20% of the cases recorded so far. The state recorded 56 more Covid-19 positive cases on Friday, taking the total count to 1,323. Of the 103 discharged, 65 were from four hospitals in Chennai. While 54 walked out of the Karur Medical College Hospital, 33 got discharged in Trichy. Among the new positive cases, 49 were from the Tablighi Jamaat cluster. While 14 of them were participants of the Delhi conference, 35 were close contacts of their family members. Three healthcare workers including a 74-year-old-doctor tested positive on Friday. The Vellore doctor had treated a snack shop owner who tested positive and later died of the infection. Two other men in the neighbourhood at Saidapet in Vellore also tested positive. Among those who tested positive on Friday were a village health nurse and a hospital worker. For the first time since the Covid-19 outbreak, there was no press conference. Chief minister Edappadi K Palaniswami, meanwhile, said the state has received 24,000 rapid test kits ordered by it from China on Friday. Tamil Nadu will be receiving more rapid such kits from China a direct purchase by the state as well as its share from the central pool in the coming days, he said. “The Centre has assured us 12,000 kits. We have sought 50,000,’’ he said. The number of samples tested in the state went up to 29,673 from 26,005 on Thursday. The number of people in government quarantine facilities fell from 41 to 34 and the number of people in hospital isolation was 1,891.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/20-patients-discharged-56-more-ve-cases-in-tn/articleshow/75212060.cms||---
April 18, 2020||Nashik||Cops set up selfie point, take photos of people breaking rules||Nashik: The Indiranagar police have set up a special kiosk in their jurisdiction wherein people caught moving around without valid reason and those not wearing a mask are made to take a photo. A background board in the kiosk reads “I am irresponsible and I am selfish” in Marathi language. Senior inspector of the Indiranagar police station Nilesh Mainkar said, “It has been three days that the selfie point has been set up near a market place. We have made more than 30 people click their photos at the selfie point. We believe that once their photo is clicked, they would not move around unnecessarily out of their houses or move around without taking precautions.” Maikar said those found moving around in the market area without wearing the masks are brought by the patrolling teams and instructed to click a selfie at the kiosk. The police said they also book such people under section 188 of the Indian Penal Code for not following police instructions. Police action against men, mainly youth, such as making them do yoga on the road, selfie points and making people stand in an awkward ‘murga’ position has drawn flak from various quarters.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/cops-set-up-selfie-point-take-photos-of-people-breaking-rules/articleshow/75212046.cms||Santosh Sonawane
April 18, 2020||Rajkot||Gujarat: Muslims perform Hindu rituals to help cremate Bhavnagar woman||By: Dilip Jiruka AMRELI: Amid stringent lockdown, Gariyadhar, a town in Bhavnagar district famed for small-scale diamond cutting and polishing industry, set a glittering example of communal brotherhood on Friday when Muslims went all out to help in cremation of a 70-year-old Hindu woman. Ranjan Bhadreshwara, who lived with her two sons Bharat and Rasik in Ghanchiwad area on Palitana Road, died a natural death on Friday morning. As most of their relatives who live in Ahmedabad could not make it for the cremation due to the lockdown, the Muslim neighbours immediately took up the responsibility to help this family do the final rites as per Brahmin rituals. In fact, the Bhadreshwaras have been the only Hindu family in Ghanchiwad area where there are nearly 50 Muslim households, for the past nearly 25 years. On hearing about her death, nearly 10 women from the Muslim families first helped in giving her body the ritualistic bath with water and embalming it with ghee. They then decorated her with bangles, sari and the tika to prepare the body for funeral. Later, 10 Muslim men shouldered the woman's bier up along with her sons and reached the local crematorium after a brief funeral procession. One Muslim man was also seeing carrying the 'doni' (earthen pot filled with water), usually carried by the person leading the funeral. There were emotional scenes when the men lifted the bier and left the house as all women cried inconsolably having lost their neighbour with whom they had lived in times of sorrow and joy. Home guard jawans present there had to request the women to go inside the house and not gather for a long time. In fact, proper social distancing was maintained at the Bhadreshwara's house as well as at the crematorium, said sources. “I have no regrets at all that my relatives could not be beside us in this hour of grief. These Muslim brothers have been our neighbours for years now. In every religion, it is said that the neighbour is your first kin,” Rasik Bhadreshwara told TOI over phone. He said it was improper to call the relatives during the time of lockdown as it have put them in an awkward situation. Rafeeq Solanki, a neighbour said, “We have been living as brothers for years now and always considered them as one among us though Bhadreshwaras are the sole Hindu family in our locality. We even got few shops opened to get the necessary material for the funeral and rituals."||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/brotherhood-in-time-of-coronavirusdiamond-town-sets-shining-example/articleshow/75209557.cms||---
April 18, 2020||Bhopal||Chouhan announces Rs 10K honorarium to health staff||Bhopal: Chief minister, Shivraj Singh Chouhan, announced on Friday that health workers directly involved in the treatment of Coronavirus patients would be given additional honrarium of Rs 10,000 per month. If an employee of any other department involved in Coronavirus works contracts infection, he would also be given this homrarium.Chouhan said that spread of Coronavirus infection has been effectively contained in the state and special attention is being paid to achieve this in Indore.More and more people are being tested for Coronavirus in Indore. 2000 people in each 10 lakh population are being tested in Indore, which is a fairly good ratio, he said.He reiterated that Coronavirus infection is curable and a lot of people are being discharged after recovery. He urged people to inform on helpline nos. If they have symptoms of infection so that they could be treated and freed of infection and observe the norms of the lockdown religiously.Panchayat members term extended: Meanwhile in another decision Chouhan announced to extend the term of district panchayat and janpad presidents and members. They would continue to hold the position till the next panchayat election is held. The chief minister made the announcement after meeting a delegation of the district and janpad presidents at his residence. He said that holding the panchayat election at present because of the Coronavirus pandemic.The panchayat representatives work as a vital link between the government and the people. Restrictions imposed during the lockdown period are likely to be relaxed after April 20 in areas which are not in the category of hotspots and containment areas.Limited economic activities like small construction works and other works under MANREGA would be undertaken to give impetus to the economy and peoples' representatives will have an important role to play in those activities and their role in overcoming Coronavirus threat was also vital, he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/chouhan-announces-rs-10k-honorarium-to-health-staff/articleshow/75211194.cms||---
April 18, 2020||Nashik||SARI leaves Covid-19 far behind in A’nagar||Nashik: As the entire country is battling against Covid-19 outbreak, it is double whammy for Ahmednagar as the district is also fighting against Severe Acute Respiratory Illness (SARI). According to a district health official, Ahmednagar city has not witnessed any new Covid-19 case since April 6 and only three new cases were reported from rural areas. However, till Friday, the district has recorded 42 SARI cases, while the Covid-19 cases stand at 27. "The symptoms of SARI is quite similar to Covid-19. And as per guidelines of Covid-19 treatment plan, the health teams should also keep an eye on SARI patients as well," the official said. "If SARI cases are found in clusters, even at village level, the health officials need to pay proper attention and ensure that others were not being infected by the disease," he added. Currently, the SARI patients in the city are being treated at Civil Hospital, while in rural areas they are being treated under the Mahatma Phule Jeevandayi Yojana. It should be noted that numbers of new Covid-19 positive cases have dropped rapidly in Ahmednagar. The 27 positive Covid-19 cases include four foreigners who had attended the Tablighi Jamaat event in Delhi. They were picked up by health officials and police after they returned to Ahmednagar, The last positive case for Covid-19 was reported in rural area of the district on April 13. Four Covid-19 patients have already been discharged, while another 12 are on the verge of being discharged in the next couple of days. "As many as 1,215 throat swab samples were sent for testing of Covid-19 virus of which 1,145 tested negative. A total of 27 have tested positive and the reports of remaining samples are still awaited," the official said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/sari-leaves-covid-19-far-behind-in-anagar/articleshow/75212066.cms||---
April 18, 2020||Trichy||Social media, art help woman staffer of Chennai mall recover in Ariyalur GH||TRICHY: A 25-year-old woman Covid-19 patient, who worked at a shop in a Chennai mall, was discharged from Ariyalur Government Hospital on Friday after she tested negative in two consecutive tests. The woman had made headlines for recording videos using TikTok app while undergoing treatment in the hospital. She attributed her recovery to the friendly treatment in the Ariyalur GH. She also thanked social media platforms for keeping her hopes of recovery alive. “Officials in the district administration, police, doctors and support staff inquired about my health daily. My family and friends were also in touch with me. My mobile phone helped me a lot in beating the loneliness and worries,” the 25-year-old told TOI. The woman was given counselling by the psychologists and psychiatrists in the hospital as she was found dependent on her mobile phone and social networking applications. The woman said she had overcome her fears by drawing on a notebook and pen provided by the hospital management. “There were many negative news on the internet on Covid-19 about patients succumbing to the illness,but I chose to ignore them. Patients undergoing Covid-19 treatments should cooperate with the medical professionals by staying inside the isolation ward,” she added. Health department officials said that the woman came to Ariyalur from Chennai in a train on the night of March 19. As she experienced multiple Covid-19 symptoms such as fever, headache and cold, she voluntarily approached the Ariyalur government hospital (GH) on March 20. She was tested positive for Covid-19 on March 27. The hospital management said that the woman was asymptomatic for the past few weeks. Fresh and consecutive swab tests found that she tested negative for Covid-19. She was given a set of instructions to be followed and told to be in home quarantine for 14 more days. If any symptoms of Covid-19 recur, doctors have advised her to approach the GH again. “Fortunately, she got herself admitted at the GH soon after developing the symptoms. So her parents and family members did not contract Covid-19,” a medical professional at Ariyalur GH said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/social-media-art-help-woman-staffer-of-chennai-mall-recover-in-ariyalur-gh/articleshow/75212927.cms||Deepak Karthik
April 18, 2020||Visakhapatnam||Retailers to seek govt nod for home delivery of non-essential items||Visakhapatnam: The south Indian chapter of Retailers Association of Indian (RAI) has decided to urge the government to allow home delivery of non-essential products even during lockdown. The decision was made following the Centre move to allow sale and delivery of non-essential products from April 20 through e-commerce platforms. “RAI members from south India held a teleconference on Thursday where we discussed the government’s announcement to allow businesses by e-commerce apps. Our members have decided to request the government to announce the same even for retail stores,” P Mohan Prasad, owner-cum- managing director of Cellpoint, told TOI. On Wednesday, the Union government allowed sale and delivery of non-essential products like cellphones, consumer durable products and garments through e-commerce apps from April 20. The decision sent a shockwave among owners and managements of retail chains as their business have been suffering huge losses since the lockdown was imposed on March 23. Owners of electronic showrooms in the city said summer months contribute close to 70% of business as sale of air conditioners and fans are most during this period. However, the lockdown has led to zero earning since the last week of March. “If the government allows e-commerce apps to start business, customers won’t wait for shops to reopen and will opt for online purchases,” Prasad said. Retailers said that there won’t be any problem for them to home deliver products. Most electronic showrooms in the city have delivery facilities for big and heavy appliances. Even mobile phone stores arrange delivery in case the customer places orders in bulk, or if a product is of high price. “Retailers generate more employment than e-commerce apps. We have over 1,000 employees at 80 stores across AP. Now, if the government allows home delivery, we can engage them for delivery,” Prasad added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/visakhapatnam/retailers-to-seek-govt-nod-for-home-delivery-of-non-essential-items/articleshow/75209591.cms||Arpit Basu
April 18, 2020||Bhopal||Lockdown to cost state Rs 4.2K crore till April 20||Bhopal: In complete lockdown till April 20, Madhya Pradesh will lose more than Rs 4,200 crore in revenue. That is, if the state’s revenue earnings are calculated at par with what it had earned in previous financial years, — the revenue targets are not increased. Normally, revenue targets are increased by 10-20% every year. Sources from the government say that if the lockdown is further increased to May 20, then the losses will increase to more than Rs 8,170 crore. And in the event of the lockdown being increased till June 20, the losses will further rise to Rs 12,195 crore. And these losses are apart from the losses incurred by the transport department. As transport department is a major source of income, if its figures are also included, then the lockdown till April 20 has already cost more than Rs 5,000 crore to the cash-strapped government. Another major source of the revenue for the government is SGST— collected from sales of consumer and other goods. As per budget estimates, around Rs 24,200 crore will be received in revenue in this financial year from SGST, but as there is lockdown till April 20, only Rs 21,700 crore will received, leading to a loss of Rs 2,500 crore. Similarly, in other segments like tax on petroleum products, excise and stamp and registry, the state government will incurr heavy losses.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/lockdown-to-cost-state-rs-4-2k-crore-till-april-20/articleshow/75211209.cms||Amarjeet Singh
April 18, 2020||Madurai||Overpricing: Four shops sealed in Virudhunagar||MADURAI: The Virudhunagar district administration has sealed four shops at Rajapalayam taluk which were found selling essential commodities at exorbitant prices. District collector R Kannan said that several steps are being taken by the officials to ensure that the essential commodities are made available without any shortage to the people in the district during the lockdown period. He said that special teams comprising officials from the revenue, labour and police departments have been formed in order to monitor the shops which are selling essential commodities. The officials would take action against the shops if the shopkeepers sell the essential commodities at exorbitant prices.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/overpricing-4-shops-sealed-in-virudhunagar/articleshow/75211210.cms||---
April 18, 2020||Hyderabad||University of Hyderabad to be testing centre for Covid||HYDERABAD: The University of Hyderabad (UoH) has been identified as a testing centre for Covid-19 under the city clusters by the department of biotechnology (DBT), government of India. To scale up the testing capacity for Covid-19, the DBT recently identified testing centers in each cluster. The Hyderabad cluster consists of five testing centres – Center for DNA Fingerprinting and Diagnostics (CDFD), CSIR-Centre for Cellular Molecular Biology (CSIR-CCMB), National Institute of Animal Biotechnology (NIAB), CSIR-Indian Institute of Chemical Technology (CSIR-IICT) in addition to the UoH. The coordinating institution for Hyderabad is CSIR-CCMB. The clusters of testing centres will test Covid-19 samples. Institutes and laboratories which have the capacity and expertise for both sample collection, handling/processing (BSL-2 facility) and testing (RT-PCR) serve as the hubs and they will involve a number of laboratories which have RT PCR machines and the requisite manpower as their extended testing facilities. The university will undertaken testing at a separate BSL-2 laboratory in CDFD. “Our university along with CDFD is geared to effectively handle the laid down procedures for Covid-19 testing. It’s a privilege for UoH to be of help to the nation during this testing times,” said Appa Rao Podile, vice-chancellor, UoH. “It will be ready for testing once the ICMR approved testing kits and required reagents are made available by the coordinating institution in Hyderabad,” read a press release issued by the UoH.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/uoh-to-be-testing-centre-for-covid/articleshow/75212068.cms||---
April 18, 2020||Vijayawada||Govt procures 1L Korean kits to quicken testing process||Amaravati: Bolstering the testing process to track the spread of Covid-19, the state government has imported rapid anti-body kits from South Korea. The new kits will help get test results in 10 minutes. The government received nearly 1 lakh kits from South Korea which will be dispatched to district labs in the next few days. Chief minister YS Jaganmohan Reddy formally received the kits and examined their performance in the camp office on Friday. Special chief secretary (health) Dr KS Jawahar Reddy explained to the chief minister that the testing capacity would be increased to nearly 16,000 per day once the testing with new kits is started. The state government had placed an order with MedTech Zone for manufacturing of nearly 2 lakh test kits only last week. While the kits made in MedTech zone in Visakhapatnam would take 30 minutes to determine the result, the South Korean kit will take only 10 minutes. Taking stock of the covid-19 situation at a review, the chief minister directed the officials to make use of the family survey carried out in the state to conduct rapid tests. He said that elimination of the suspected cases should begin based on the survey report. The CM asked the officials to focus on patient care as many undergoing quarantines are found to be struggling with comorbidities. He said that their health should be given priority even before getting their test reports. The chief minister asked the officials to launch emergency services in hospitals along with handling Covid-19 crisis. He said that people should not complain that no other health emergency is being attended to in the name of the fight against Covid-19. He said that extending services to other emergencies was also important. Senior officials said they had roped in specialist doctors to handle critical care management. They said that the experts would provide requisite inputs to the professionals extending services to Covid-19 patients in isolation wards. They told the CM that a control room was set up with the experts to support the doctors and paramedical staff. They said that the experts would monitor the vitals of the patients and put the doctors on high alert. “The services of the experts in the control room would reduce the stress on the professionals serving the patients inside,” said Dr Jawahar Reddy.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/govt-procures-1l-korean-kits-to-quicken-testing-process/articleshow/75209587.cms||Samdani MN
April 18, 2020||Varanasi||Jamaat attendee third Covid-19 case in Mirzapur||Varanasi: One more person from Chunar in Mirzapur district, who had attended Tablighi Jamaat, tested positive for Covid-19 on Thursday evening. Now, Mirzapur district has three positive case. Earlier, two persons had tested positive on April 4. According to Mirzapur CMO Dr OP Tiwari, the man has been admitted to the isolation ward,and his family members have been quarantined at home. As many as six persons of Narayanpur and Jamalpur blocks had gone to Delhi to attend the Tablighi Jamaat. After they returned on March 22, they were admitted to the isolation ward of Vindhyachal community health centre, and their sample were sent for testing. After the test report received on April 4, two of them -- one from Shrwa village of Jamalpur and another from Basadhi village of Ahraura — were found positive for COVID-19. The other four had tested negative. In second testing, one more person from Dikshitpur village in Chunar was found positive on Thursday evening. Presently, three positive persons of Mirzapur and one from Bhadohi district are under treatment at the isolation ward in Mirzapur.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/varanasi/jamaat-attendee-third-covid-19-case-in-mirzapur/articleshow/75209657.cms||---
April 18, 2020||Trichy||Trichy residents can step out of home only on one day in a week||TRICHY: From Monday (April 20), residents of Trichy city will be allowed to step out of their homes only on one day in a week. The Trichy Corporation will distribute curfew passes to residents to minimise the public movement on roads during the lockdown. Residents with passes will be allowed to come between 6am and 1pm only. The corporation has printed 2.20 lakh curfew cards – in five colours -- which will be distributed in all the 65 wards by Sunday. The five colour cards include pink (permitted to go out on Mondays), yellow (Tuesdays), blue (Wednesdays), green (Thursdays) and light blue (Fridays). Police will verify the curfew card colour and details with the personal Identification cards such as Aadhaar and PDS card. Markets from where the residents can purchase vegetables will be mentioned on the rear of the cards. Only one person from a house, that too between 18 to 60 years of age will be allowed to step out, officials said. Authorities have planned to keep the vegetable markets closed on every Saturdays and Sundays till the lockdown is over. People will be permitted to purchase groceries from the stores near to their houses. “For a ward, curfew cards in common colour will be distributed. The ward-wise details of the curfew cards issued in the 65 wards will be shared with the city police,” a senior official of the corporation said. Name of the curfew pass holder (one from a family), mobile number and Aadhaar number will be written in the pass. “Revenue assistants and fields workers in the four zones will distribute the passes at the doorstep,” the official added. Similarly, Manapparai municipality has distributed curfew passes in six different colours for its residents in 27 wards. Sunday will be a total shutdown in Manapparai town.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/trichy-residents-can-step-out-of-home-only-on-one-day-in-a-week/articleshow/75212919.cms||Deepak Karthik
April 18, 2020||Vijayawada||Rs 6,000 crore loss in excise revenue, commercial tax||VIJAYAWADA: Deputy chief minister K Narayana Swamy said the state government has lost Rs 6,000 crore revenue from excise and commercial tax departments during the lockdown period. While the excise department has lost Rs 1,500 crore, the commercial tax department lost about Rs 4,500 crore, he said. “Though the state government lost huge revenue, public health is paramount to us and we are implementing the lockdown to contain the spread of Covid-19,” he said. The deputy chief minister also acknowledged that there have been some cases of liquor misappropriation during the lockdown. “We have ordered an internal audit of stocks and stringent action would be taken against those involved in illegal selling of liquor,” he said. Even after the imposition of lockdown and shutting down of liquor stores in the neighbouring states, illegal liquor continues to flow through the state borders apart from misappropriation of stocks from government liquor outlets. The excise officials have booked many cases in last three weeks and arrested people selling illegal liquor including those working in the department. With the imposition of lockdown and closing down of all liquor outlets and bars in the state, the desperate guzzlers have tried all means to get liquor. Some of the employees working in the excise department took advantage of the unprecedented demand from the tipplers and tried to make quick money. They have indulged in misappropriation of stocks from the sealed shops and sold to the smuggling rackets, said sources. On the other hand, many people tried to get the liquor from bordering states where the liquor shops are in the hands of private persons. Though the liquor outlets were closed in the neighbouring states also, they find it easy to get the liquor in black market from wine dealers in other states. In the latest incident, a ward volunteer was arrested while he was selling liquor procured from Telangana at Jaggaiahpet in Krishna district. Earlier, excise officials seized large quantities of liquor in Guntur that was brought illegally into the state from Telangana. The excise department has launched an internal audit of liquor stocks at government-owned outlets as liquor theft cases have been reported across the state and at many places with the involvement of excise officials. Speaking to TOI, enforcement director Vinit Brijlal said that they have booked cases against 10 officials that include one former excise inspector, two head constables, one constable, three supervisors and three sales persons for joining hands with smuggling rackets to misappropriate stocks. Brijlal said that swift action has been initiated against the wrongdoers and the audit of stocks is being done.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/rs-6000cr-loss-in-excise-revenue-commercial-tax/articleshow/75209641.cms||---
April 18, 2020||Varanasi||Sonbhadra admin on alert as 8 return from Jaunpur||Varanasi: The officials of Sonbhadra district swung into action after they were informed that eight natives of the district, who spent quarantine period at a shelter home in Jaunpur district, have been sent to their homes. These eight persons, though found asymptomatic, had travelled in the bus with a 32-year-old man of Delhi who was tested positive for Covid-19 on April 15. The Delhi man was quarantined at a shelter home in Sukkhipur area since April 3. Sonbhadra district magistrate S Rajalingam received the letter, dated April 15, sent by the Jaunpur DM regarding the movement of these persons on Thursday. Following this communication, the Sonbhadra administration sent a medical team to the villages of these eight people to collect their samples and to quarantine them as a precautionary measure. The health personnel and police rushed to Salaiyadih and Gidhiya village on Thursday in search of these persons. All of them were taken to the district hospital and were quarantined. Meanwhile, all types of movement have been restricted completely in the two villages. The DM said that all of these persons are asymptomatic, and they have been quarantined as a precautionary measure. He also made an appeal to the public to beware of rumours.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/varanasi/sonbhadra-admin-on-alert-as-8-return-from-jaunpur/articleshow/75209753.cms||---
April 18, 2020||Nashik||YCMOU to donate Rs 10 crore to CM’s relief fund for Covid fight||NASHIK: The Yashwantrao Chavan Maharashtra Open University (YCMOU) in Nashik has decided to donate Rs 10 crore to the chief minister’s relief fund in order to contribute to the government’s efforts in combating Covid-19. The university took the decision after state governor Bhagat Singh Koshyari, who is also the chancellor of the universities of the state, conducted a video-conference with all the vice chancellors of the state universities and appealed to them to contribute as per their capability. YCMOU vice-chancellor E Vayunandan said, “Our government is striving hard to keep the situation under control. It is just a token amount from the students and staff of our university that we are contributing in the chief minister’s relief fund.” The university has a provision of collecting Rs 4 from the students for emergency fund inclusive in their fees. The university has used that fund to made the contribution. YCMOU registrar Dinesh Bhonde said “After having a meeting with the governor and the higher and technical education minister, the vice chancellor conducted a video-conference with the finance officer and other authorities in the university and said that we should make a generous contribution to the chief minister’s relief fund. We all agreed to it and the vice chancellor contacted the state government and informed them.” The registrar also said that higher and technical education minister Uday Samant has appreciated the university’s gesture.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/ycmou-to-donate-rs-10-crore-to-cms-relief-fund-for-covid-fight/articleshow/75212079.cms||pragya jain
April 18, 2020||Trichy||Trichy: Sanitation workers get into the habit of wearing protective gear||TRICHY: The lockdown has come as a blessing in disguise for the city corporation in many aspects, one such is better waste management. Sanitation workers have also started increasingly wearing safety gear. Earlier, they were hesitant in using the safety gear while some blamed the civic body for not issuing safety gear. But, Covid-19 scare has prompted a majority of them to wear facemasks and hand gloves while on duty. Citing difficulties such as sweating, sanitation workers had refused to wear personal safety gear while collecting waste and cleaning roads. There were also allegations that the civic body did not provide them with safety equipment. Since the lockdown began, The civic body has spent more than Rs 4 lakh in procuring safety gear for its workers. “Sanitation workers have realized the risks involved in collecting waste without safety gear. During the inspections, we find them wearing hand gloves and face masks,” a corporation official said. Besides the washable cloth gloves, the local body has issued them washable rubber gloves and cloth masks. Corporation officials said that they are confident that the workers would continue to wear gear even after the lockdown. Sanitation workers have stated that they are ready to use personal safety gear and asked the civic body to provide them disposable hand gloves. “The authorities should give us clinical gloves, which can be disposed after use. Repeated use of cloth gloves may fail to solve the purpose,” Maran, district secretary of CITU (Sanitary Workers Union), said. The civic body, however, said that cloth hand gloves are the best option as they can be reused after washing, while disposable gloves will add to waste management woes. Covid-19 effect Sanitary workers: 2,300 to 2,400 Permanent workers: 800-900 (Employed to clean streets) SHG sanitary workers: 1,500 (Employed to collect waste at doorstep) Safety gear Hand gloves Face masks Safety jackets Boots Sanitisers||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/sanitation-workers-get-into-the-habit-of-wearing-protective-gear/articleshow/75212931.cms||Deepak Karthik
April 18, 2020||Mysuru||Seven held for poaching deer in Bandipur Tiger Reserve||Mysuru: Two poachers and their five associates were arrested on charges of poaching in Bandipur Tiger Reserve on Friday. According to sources, foresters at Gopala Swamy Betta division received a tip-off from their counterparts in Gundlupet Buffer Zone at 5.30am over suspicious movement of a few persons in the region. Following the tip-off, the foresters, along with patrolling staff, personnel of Special Tiger Protection Force (STPF) and staff of Madduru forest range intercepted two persons on a bike near Hosahalli Gudda at 5.45 am. The two men—Alumallaiah (39) and Rangaswamy (28) from Haggadahalla village—were questioned. The foresters soon found that they were carrying 50 kg of deer meat in two bags. They revealed that they had laid a snare at Hirikere forest area and two deers were caught in the trap. They had removed the deer skin and were carrying the meat to give it to their associates to sell it to the customers, the officials said. While the foresters were questioning the poachers, three persons – Nanja Shetty (40) of Haggadahalla village and Sidda Shetty (30) and Chenna Nayaka (30) of Lakkipura village– came to the spot from Hangala Hosahalli to collect the meat. The foresters arrested all the five and seized 50 kg of meat, bike, one head of a stag and two heads of female deers, eight legs of deer, two deer pelts, 15 snares and a knife. Later foresters arrested Nagaraja Shetty (60) and Mada Shetty (55) from Kodahalli village who were their associates. The foresters are looking for Chennamalla (35), Prabhu (27) and Naganna (42) from Haggadahalla village who are absconding.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mysuru/seven-held-for-poaching-deer-in-bandipur-tiger-reserve/articleshow/75206682.cms||---
April 18, 2020||Vijayawada||TTD reaffirms commitment to Covid battle||Tirupati: Tirumala Tirupati Devasthanams (TTD) chairman YV Subba Reddy on Friday maintained that the temple administration is in the forefront in the fight against Covid-19. YV Subba Reddy inspected Sri Padmavathi Medical College Hospital, which has been transformed into a Covid-19 hospital, at the SVIMS campus in the temple city. Speaking to reporters after the inspection, the chairman said the temple administration has allocated nearly Rs 20 crore towards strengthening the medical apparatus at SVIMS as part of efforts to combat the novel coronavirus. “Following the directions of chief minister YS Jaganmohan Reddy, Sri Padmavathi Medical College Hospital was converted into a dedicated Covid-19 hospital to cater to the needs of patients amid the outbreak of the global pandemic. The hospital has 390 beds and 110 ventilators. TTD has sanctioned Rs 20 crore to upgrade the facility into a 500-bed hospital with ventilators and all necessary medical equipment in place,” said YV Subba Reddy. The chairman, who earlier inspected stores at the hospital, confirmed that the hospital has sufficient quantities of personal protective equipment.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/ttd-reaffirms-commitment-to-covid-battle/articleshow/75209603.cms||Sandeep Raghavan
April 18, 2020||Bhopal||Risking their lives, they fight hunger amid corona crisis||Bhopal: As Bhopalis remain cooped up indoors, there are some bravehearts on field constantly serving those in need, coordinating demand and supply of essentials. They are our real heroes...the lockdown heroes. Next time you see them, don’t forget to greet them with a smile. In slums of Aishbagh area, volunteers of Awaaz organisation are working day and night to ensure no one goes to bed hungry and they have sufficient stock of ration. They are also reaching out to marginalised sections of LGBTQ community, HIV positive patients, students and migrant workers. With joint efforts of Bhopal Municipal Corporation and the district administration, they have shortlisted areas that need help. Rolly Shivhare, one of the volunteers said, “It’s important for people to collectively fight this crisis. Everyday we try to reach out to more people so to minimise the prevalence of hunger and lack of basic hygiene equipment.” Most of the people residing in Aishbag area daily wage workers. In such times, it is nearly impossible for them to feed their families. To address this, volunteers have been divided into teams and given separate tasks. First set of volunteers appeal to people on social media platforms like Facebook and WhatsApp if they want to contribute foodgrains and other essential items for the needy. Second team collects this donated stuff from them and divides it into packets. Other teams take charge of cooked meals for which Shri Guru Teg Bhadur Saibh Gurudwara in Saket Nagar prepares the morning meal and Jain Temple in MP Nagar the evening meal. These meals are distributed according to the lists of areas located by the organisation. Aawaz supplies food packets to almost 300 families in the city on a daily basis, along with grains and dry supplies to migrant workers from areas of Chhattisgarh, Maharashtra, Bihar and Jharkhand. Students have also been provided with food assistance.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/risking-their-lives-they-fight-hunger-amid-corona-crisis/articleshow/75211231.cms||---
April 18, 2020||Madurai||Madurai: 20 gather for prayer, held for curfew violation||MADURAI: The city police arrested 20 people for participating in a prayer organised at a house by violating the curfew conditions on Friday. They were later released on their own bail. Sources said that Syed Ibrahim a resident of Subramaniyapuram organised a prayer meeting in his house on Friday afternoon, in which 19 others took part. Based on a tip-off, police officials rushed to his house and found the gathering. The Jaihindpuram police registered a case against Ibrahim and 19 others. They were booked under sections 143 (unlawful assembly), section 269 (negligent act likely to spread infection of disease dangerous to life), section 270 (malignant act likely to spread infection of disease dangerous to life), 188 (disobedience to order duly promulgated by public servant) of IPC and section 3 of Epidemic Diseases Act.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/20-gather-for-prayer-held-for-curfew-violation/articleshow/75211228.cms||---
April 18, 2020||Indore||Rate of positive Covid cases in Indore 5 times more than national average||Indore: The rate of positive Covid cases in Indore till Friday morning was 20.75% of samples tested, which is five times more than ‘positivity rate’ across the country.This rate stood at 4.15% for 3,02,956 samples tested across the country till Thursday, as per data put up by Indian Council of Medical Research on its website.In Indore district, of 4,057 samples tested till April 16, 842 were found positive, as per records of CMHO office. The samples were tested at Mahatma Gandhi Memorial Medical College in city, AIIMS in Bhopal and National Institute of Virology in New Delhi. Among these, 201 were rejected because of contamination and reports of 220 are awaited.On why high rate of samples were testing positive, MGM college dean Dr Jyoti Bindal said, “Only samples of highly-suspected persons are collected in the district. They are mainly primary or secondary contacts of positive cases already found here.” She said that these contacts were traced by rapid response team of district health department through screening of positive cases and their contacts.The tracking of primary and secondary contacts of positive cases began on March 25, immediately a day after Indore reported first four positive cases. The health department, district administration and medical college authorities formalised a strategy and began screening affected areas. This intensive screening and sample collection in containment areas led to 842 positive cases being reported in Indore till Thursday.CMHO Dr Praveen Jadia also attributed the cause for high positivity rate in the district to screening and sample collection of primary and secondary contacts of positive cases. “Initially, people hid their symptoms and health conditions and didn’t report to doctors. This led to spreading of disease in certain pockets of the city,” he said.//Changes in NHM rules hamper sampling work The pace of sample collection in city is not satisfactory. When sample collection in charge Dr Amit Malakar was asked about the reason for not adding more teams and only concentrating on containment zones, he said, “We are trying to increase the team from 12 to 30.” At present, 12 teams are engaged in sample collection work in 12 areas under supervision of SDMs and the whole city was divided in five zones, said Malakar. However, sources said continuous change in rules by National Health Mission, MP led to this problem. On April 9, NHM issued an order allowing recruitment of private practicing dental surgeons for sample collection. Within three days, the order was revoked only allowing government dental surgeons. But, there are only 144 dental surgeons in MP health department who would be responsible for the task of sample collection. // 80% doctors fail to report for duty Every four out of five doctors didn’t report for duty in Indore district till Friday. State government has ordered 102 MBBS doctors to immediately report to CMHO to help health department in screening and sampling work. However, only 20 of them joined duty by Friday. CMHO Dr Praveen Jadia said, “Despite the state government’s order, only 20 doctors have reported.” The team is already facing problem in intensifying sampling work due to lack of trained staff. Sources said the doctors haven’t been reporting in the city because of infection fear. // Backlog cleared, 863 sealed samples to be tested soonIndore: Samples of 863 Covid-19 suspects were sealed in boxes for last couple of days because of delay in testing at MGM virology lab. Of the total 5140 samples received by the lab from Indore till April 17 morning, 4,057 have been tested. Of them, 842 were tested positive, 201 were rejected and rest were negative. While results of 1,083 are awaited with 220 ones under process. Dr Sadhna Sodani, logistic and management in charge of laboratory said, “We have maintained a record of samples received and tested. It has been taking an average time of 3 days to test sample. Ideally, the report should be given within a day because if it gets delayed the purpose of testing for identification and curbing the spread fails”. But it becomes practically impossible for the lab to give report in a day because number has been increasing consistently since it started testing on March 21. The number of samples increased from 1 to 1,000 per day between March 21 and April 16. The lab is testing about 250 to 300 samples per day, she said. District collector Manish Singh said 15-day backlog of samples has been cleared. Maximum number of Covid-19 positive cases are from the lot of samples sent to Noida for tests. “The numbers will now go down and situation will improve,” he said adding number of patients in OPDs of yellow category hospitals, that caters to Covid-19 suspects, has also gone down. Singh assured the residents that the administration is equipped and prepared to deal with situation. “We have required infrastructure. New patients and suspects were already quarantined and kept in various hotels and marriage gardens. The patients will be given best medical care,” he said. CMHO Dr Praveen Jadia said, “There’s no backlog of samples in MGM virology lab after reports of sample sent to Delhi received on Thursday. These 863 samples were collected in last couple of days only and will be tested soon. The suspects are in quarantine centres”. Though in a few cases, it took almost 14 days to get the report. In a similar case, reports of eight people, who had fled quarantine facility near Choithram Hospital, were received on April 15 while their samples were collected on March 31. The lab was overburdened with number of samples and this has forced the officials to send samples to labs in Bhopal and Noida.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/indore/rate-of-positive-covid-cases-in-indore-5-times-more-than-national-average/articleshow/75211237.cms||Antriksh Singh
April 18, 2020||Varanasi||Sankat Mochan music fest extended by a day||Varanasi: In view of the tremendous response to the digital version of the Sankat Mochan Sangeet Samaroh, the organisers have decided to extend the fest by one more day. This year, the six-day music festival is being organised on digital platform due to the lockdown in the wake of Covid-19 outbreak. “The music lovers across the world are watching the music maestros performing from their respective places through social media platforms. On the demand of the musicians as well as audience, we have decided to extend the music fetsival one more day,” said the mahanth of Sankat Mochan temple Prof Vishwambhar Nath Mishra adding that the extension is for this year only. As many as 15 musicians performed on the fifth day of the fest on Thursday night. The concert commenced with the Kathak performance by Anuradha Singh from Bhopal followed by the tabla recital by Anuradha Pal from Mumbai and vocal recital by Bobay Jayshri Ramnath from Chennai. Two artists from Bengaluru -Jayanti Kumresh and Shrividya Angara Sinha presented Saraswati Veena recital and Kuchipudi dance, respectively. They were followed by a beautiful composition of Thumri by the celebrated vocalist Pt Ajay Pohankar from Mumbai. Noted Sitar player Mehtab Ali Niyazi performed from Delhi, while Prachi Shah Pandya presented Kathak performance from Mumbai followed by Santoor recital by Abhay Sopori from Delhi, sitar recital by Pt Narendra Mishra of Banaras gharan with his son Pt Amrendra Mishra and Dr Yella Venkateshwar Rao’s Mridangam recital from Hyderabad. Noted vocalist Kankana Banerjee, who has been associated with this fest for past four decades, presented her performance from Mumbai followed by Sarod recital by Pt Vikas Maharaj of Varanasi followed by a local violin player Sukhdev Mishra. The concert concluded with the vocal recital by Pt Ajoy Chakraborty from Kolkata.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/varanasi/sankat-mochan-music-fest-extended-by-a-day/articleshow/75209819.cms||---
April 18, 2020||Bhopal||State govt staff to donate 1-day pay for CM relief fund||Bhopal: A day’ salary of all state government employees will be docked for the corona relief fund, unless stated otherwise.Employees who are unwilling to take a cut in their pay can inform their disbursing officer by Monday. This decision was taken after a request by Employees Union, and is expected to add up to Rs100 crore to the relief fund.Officials said, to help in the fight against Covid-19 pandemic in Madhya Pradesh, one day’ basic pay of officials of the state government will be deducted from the April's salary, which is payable in May.The deduction of those government servants will not be made from the salary of April, who have voluntary contributed to the chief minister relief fund from the monthly salary of March.If any government servant wants to disagree with deduction of amount greater than or less than one day's basic salary or for any reason, then it is necessary for him/her to inform the concerned drawing and disbursing officer in writing by April 20.All heads of the departments, divisional commissioners and district collectors of the state government have been asked by the government to initiate necessary action to deposit the deducted amount in the Chief Minister Relief Fund in State Bank of India, Vallabh Bhavan branch.Two days ago, major industrial establishments in the state had contributed Rs38.17 in the CM Relief Fund. Cash-starved state government hopes more people will come forward and donate in this time of crisis to speed up the battle against corona.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/state-govt-staff-to-donate-1-day-pay-for-cm-relief-fund/articleshow/75211240.cms||---
April 18, 2020||Thiruvananthapuram||City police arrest 93 people, seize 60 vehicles||Kochi: City police on Friday registered 84 cases and arrested 93 persons, besides seizing 60 vehicles on charges of violating the lockdown violations. The number of cases registered for lockdown violations in rural areas too is high. Rural police on Friday registered as many as 147 cases for lockdown violations and 139 persons were arrested in this regard. They also seized 91 vehicles. Also, Thrikkakara police have booked one person under the Kerala Epidemic Diseases Ordinance-2020 for violating home quarantine. Meanwhile, in a case of online fraud, Infopark police registered an FIR based on a complaint by a Kakkanad native. She had tried to place an order for home delivery of groceries. The woman got the number, claiming to be that of a supermarket, online. But, when the transaction was over she lost over Rs 10 lakh. Cops urged residents not to click on links shared by strangers or received from social media and to rely on authorized sites for contact numbers. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/thiruvananthapuram/city-police-arrest-93-people-seize-60-vehicles/articleshow/75209667.cms||---
April 18, 2020||Coimbatore||Tamil Nadu cop gives his entire Rs 25,000 salary to CM fund||COIMBATORE: A Tamil Nadu police constable donated his entire one-month salary of Rs 25,788 to the Chief Minister’s Public Relief Fund to combat the spread of Covid-19 in the state. S Babu, 35, handed over a cheque to Coimbatore district superintendent of police Sujit Kumar on Friday. The bachelor, who hails from Kalikkanaickenpatti village near Palani in Dindigul district, is a BA Tamil literature graduate. His father, V Subramaniam, who was also a police constable, died when Babu was six years old. Babu was recruited to the post of grade-I constable in 2008, and was posted to the Coimbatore rural armed reserve police. “Recalling his mother who died in 2019, Babu said, If my mom had been alive, she would have asked me to hand over the amount to the fund.” “I don’t have any loan. So I donated my entire salary,” he said. “I was on duty at Mettupalayam where I saw the struggles of Covid-19 patients and their family members. So I decided to do something,” said Babu. “Our needs will be there till our death. If we have a heart to do something for the society, we can donate whatever we have,” said Babu.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/tn-cop-gives-his-entire-rs-25k-salary-to-cm-fund/articleshow/75212104.cms||A Subburaj
April 18, 2020||Trichy||Swab testing at hotspots in Karur begins||KARUR: Healthcare workers in Karur district have started collecting nasal swab and blood samples from people living in the areas declared as hotspots. At the same time, people who were in contact with Covid-19 suspected and positive cases in the isolation ward of Karur government medical college hospital are being tested. Saying that essentials for the people in hotspots were being taken care of, Karur district collector T Anbalagan said that so far 50% of the people who were admitted to the isolation wards have been discharged after recovering. He said as many as 149 people, which includes positive cases from Karur, Namakkal and Dindigul were admitted to the hospital, out of which 78 have been discharged. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/swab-testing-at-hotspots-in-karur-begins/articleshow/75212936.cms||---
April 18, 2020||Visakhapatnam||VZM dist admin to begin random Covid-19 testing||Visakhapatnam: District officials have started conducting Covid-19 screening tests in Vizianagaram town, Parvathipuram and Salur. The officials pointed that this was made possible mainly because of the arrival of 1,400 screening kits, which will help them conduct ramdom tests and also enable preview results almost instantaneously (within an hour). “The basis for conducting the tests is the True NAT method and we have trained dentists and lab technicians to conduct them in a professional manner,” said district collector M Hari Jawahar Lal. When asked if random testing meant testing even those without symptoms, the collector said, “ Only those who show symptoms and ones who come in contact with Covid-19 patients will be tested.” The collector further said the administration will intensify door-to-door survey and surveillance and urged the staff to ensure that proper survey is done to ensure authentic database. Meanwhile, the district administration noted that once screening is done, if preliminary reports say that somebody has tested positive, the sample will be sent for re-testing immediately.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/visakhapatnam/vzm-dist-admin-to-begin-random-covid-19-testing/articleshow/75209694.cms||---
April 18, 2020||Business||Smartphone use up 24% in March||Bengaluru: The time spent by Indians on smartphones increased by 24% to 4.3 hours per day in March, driven primarily by the lockdown, according to data from analytics firm App Annie of Android phones. It was 3.5 hours a day on average in 2019. During the lockdown, consumers have spent increasing time on mobile games like PUBG, social networks like TikTok and Facebook, besides using video-chatting applications like Zoom for interacting with friends and family, for office work and for online classes. The spike in time spent on smartphones is part of a global trend. The countries worst impacted by the Covid-19 pandemic, Italy and Spain, saw even higher spikes of 34% and 28%, respectively. But as lockdown restrictions ease in the future, total time spent may go down if numbers from China are an indication. When the country was under complete lockdown in February, it saw a 30% increase in time to 5 hours; by March, when restrictions eased, it came down to 4.3 hours, as per App Annie. But it was still a gain of 12% from 2019, when it was 3.9 hours. India also saw the biggest jump in video consumption, of 40%, to over 2.9 billion hours during the week starting March 22 as compared to the last week of December 2019, when it was 2.1 billion hours. Indonesia saw a jump of just 15%. Video streaming platforms in India like Hotstar, Netflix and MX Player had agreed to suspend high definition video broadcasting and stick to just lower resolution standard definition (SD) on March 25 to reduce the load on telecom networks. App Annie also finds that Indians are increasingly spending on healthcare and meditation applications during the lockdown. While downloads of these applications increased by 30% to 3.9 million during the week starting March 22, spending jumped 60% to $400,000 or about Rs 3 crore during the week. Google Classroom in the education technology space and Ludo King in the gaming segment also saw sharp increases in India.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/smartphone-use-up-24-in-march/articleshow/75212120.cms||---
April 18, 2020||Nagpur||Covid-19 +ve man booked for giving wrong info, spreading disease to others||Nagpur: Shanti Nagar police have booked a 51-year-old Covid-19 positive person for giving wrong, misleading information to Nagpur Municipal Corporation (NMC) that led to spread of the disease. The man is a nephew of the 68-year-old deceased from Satranjipura, who was the city’s first victim of Covid-19, and is currently undergoing treatment at GMCH.This is the city’s first case in which a positive patient has been booked. Following a complaint from assistant commissioner of NMC Satranjipura zone Vijay Humne, Shanti Nagar police registered offences against the person under section 182 (use of lawful power of public servant), section 187 (intentionally omit to give assistance), section 188 (disobedience to public servant), sections 269, 270 (negligent and malignant act likely to spread infection or disease dangerous to life), section 290 (public nuisance), all under IPC, and sections 2, 3 and 4 of the Epidemic Diseases Act-1897.The 68-year-old had died on April 5 at IGGMCH and his samples tested positive on April 6. He was buried on April 7. NMC’s complaint and the FIR say the nephew had officially taken possession of the deceased’s body and was among the four present during burial on April 7. Therefore, the NMC team had also quarantined him. On April 8 and 9, NMC team had asked him details about his contact with the deceased.“He told the NMC team that neither him or anyone from his family had met the deceased since long. He also said he went to the house of the deceased in the evening on April 6, after learning about the death, and did not enter inside. He said he completed burial as immediate family members of the deceased were under quarantine,” said Humne’s complaint. The complaint adds the man tested positive on April 11 and his wife tested positive on April 13. “We could have contained the spread of virus had he given correct information. We could have isolated him and his family members had he given correct information which would have prevented spread of disease,” Humne’s complaint said.The NMC did not trace or quarantine his family members on April 7. The family members were quarantined after he tested positive on April 11. Humne said, “He also hid information about his business of tours and travel apart from cushioning work.”TOI had on April 11 reported that the nephew of the deceased runs a tours and travel agency. Also, on April 14, TOI had reported details of his tour to Mecca between February 4 and 14, and a tour to Bareilly from March 19 to 23.After TOI’s reports, NMC traced and quarantined 32 more persons who were his close contacts.NMC additional medical officer health Dr Praveen Gantawar said, “The man used to meet the deceased frequently but informed our team that he and his family members had not met the deceased since long. Fortunately, we had examined and quarantined him. We are yet to finalize the person from whom the deceased got infected. The deceased himself had no travel history as per his immediate family members. But his nephew is one of the suspects as he had travel history,” he said.After he tested positive on April 11, NMC swiftly expanded the containment zone with the epicentre as his house at Bairagipura.NMC officials also said, “Immediate family members also gave wrong information. Our team learnt about all their close contacts from sources and residents in the area. We could trace and quarantine 58 persons initially in touch with the deceased, of which 28 tested positive,” they said.INFO* 68-year-old died at IGGMCH on April 5, his samples tested positive on April 6* Nephew performed funeral on April 7, was quarantined* NMC team asked for close contact details of nephew on April 8 and 9* Nephew told NMC team he or his family members had not met deceased since long* Due to this NMC did not trace or quarantine family members and close contacts* Nephew tested positive on April 11, and his family members were quarantined* His wife tested positive on April 13* NMC learnt about travel history of the person, so 32 more were quarantinedNMC’s Complaint* Man gave wrong information that he, his wife and other family member did not meet deceased since long though he used to meet deceased frequently* Man said deceased was his uncle so he went to house of deceased on April 6 evening, but did not enter house and did not meet any immediate family members. However, it was revealed he was always in contact with immediate family members of the deceased* Man also hid information about his business of tours and travels apart from cushioning works* NMC could have traced and quarantined family members of the person if he had given correct information on April 7. NMC quarantined immediate family members only after he tested positive on April 11* His wife tested positive on April 13* NMC also learnt about his foreign and Bareilly tours. Then, NMC quarantined another 32 family members-----------------------------------------BOXConfusion over address of accusedShanti Nagar police have mentioned the address of the nephew as Dalalpura, which created confusion on Friday. NMC assistant commissioner Vijay Humne said, “Police booked the same person against whom NMC lodged a complaint. He is a resident of Bairagipura. We lodged a complaint with Shanti Nagar police station. (Address of accused was not mentioned in NMC’s complaint).”Police contacted NMC saying the person’s house was falling under Lakadganj police station. Then, NMC sent complaint to Lakadganj police station. “Shanti Nagar police registered FIR with address of Dalalpura. ACP of two police stations is the same, and said it required just a formality of transferring the case from Shanti Nagar police station to Lakadganj police station,” Humne said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/covid-19-ve-man-booked-for-giving-wrong-info-spreading-disease-to-others/articleshow/75211252.cms||Anjaya Anparthi
April 18, 2020||Rajkot||Couple attacked over trivial issue in Jamnagar||Rajkot: A couple was attacked allegedly by their six neighbours over a trivial issue in Dhararnagar locality of Jamnagar on Thursday night. Police said the accused allegedly led by Noormohemmed Sameja and Shaqeel Sameja attacked Abu Baqra Sama and his wife Mumtaz with bats and iron pipes.According to the police, the Sama couple had come from Kutch to stay with their family members in Dhararnagar. There was a construction work going on in the house where the couple lived. “A cement slab from the couple’s house fell on the roof of the Sameja family’s house, triggering off an altercation between the victims and the accused, resulting in the attack,” said J V Rathod, inspector with Jamnagar B police station.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/couple-attacked-over-trivial-issue-in-jamnagar/articleshow/75209703.cms||---
April 18, 2020||Vadodara||Ambulance used for trip to Lunawada||Vadodara: Five persons were arrested by Mahisagar police when they entered the district in an ambulance despite ban on travel between different districts in the state. The police received information that the ambulance was parked near a hospital in the district headquarters at Lunawada. Sources in Mahisagar police said that information regarding the ambulance was received when officials were on a drive to implement lockdown in the early hours on Friday. They located the ambulance at the Maaz Hospital. It came to light that Mohammed Ghanchi and Rafiq Sheikh from Ahmedabad had come to the town with Mustafa Sheikh, a resident of Santrampur and Faizan Patel, a resident of Lunawada. The ambulance was from Shifa Hospital in Ahmedabad. All the five accused have been sent to a quarantine facility after registering an offence against them.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/ambulance-used-for-trip-to-lunawada/articleshow/75209303.cms||---
April 18, 2020||Visakhapatnam||Vizag police chief suspends two cops from cybercrime PS||Visakhapatnam: Visakhapatnam commissioner of police Rajeev Kumar Meena on Friday suspended inspector of police, cybercrime police station, V Gopinath and sub-inspector, N Ravi Kumar, for alleged negligence of duties. RK Meena issued suspension orders and also warned of departmental action against the duo if they were found to have been involved in any illegal activity. Sources said the city police chief had received complaints from some victims, including women, that the cases lodged by them at the cybercrime police station had not been resolved. Sources in the department said both officers had passed on the call data of a complainant to a third person, after which the recipient of the data began blackmailing the complainant. The officers, it is alleged, also deleted data related to a case without informing their superiors. Though Gopinath was appreciated by officers for his investigation skills, he was suspended for dereliction of duty. In another incident, inspector of police (crime wing) of the north sub-division was relieved from duty for violation of dress code while taking part in a video conference.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/visakhapatnam/vizag-police-chief-suspends-two-cops-from-cybercrime-ps/articleshow/75209733.cms||---
April 18, 2020||Allahabad||Ban on flying kites during lockdown||Prayagraj: Police on Friday prohibited the sale, storage and purchase of kites and Chinese manjha (kite string) in the city during the lockdown enforced in view of the novel coronavirus pandemic. Those found violating the norms would be booked under relevant sections of the Indian Penal Code. SP (city) Brijesh Kumar Srivastava said, “We have noticed that residents are flying kites in groups on the terrace of their homes or streets during the lockdown, thereby flouting social distancing norms.” He said that police have also noticed that kite flyers were flouting social distancing norms by going to shops to purchase kites and manjha. In view of such violations, police have decided to prohibit the sale, storage and purchase of kites and manjha. The SP said that many people have been injured by the sharp Chinese manjha and the kites also cause damage to power transmission lines.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/allahabad/ban-on-flying-kites-during-lockdown/articleshow/75210606.cms||---
April 18, 2020||Visakhapatnam||3 die as lorry carrying chemicals catches fire||Eluru: Three persons were charred to death after the lorry they were travelling in hit a tree and burst into flames in West Godavari on Friday. The lorry, carrying pharma chemicals, was on its way to Visakhapatnam from Hyderabad. The accident took place near a petrol bunk on the National Highway near Alampur of Pentapadu mandal at around 6pm. Pentapadu SI Srinivasa Rao said that the vehicle was transporting 200 kg Ammonium Chloride, 1,500 kg Thionyl Chloride, and 2,600 kg Methyl Magnesium Chloride from Ocimum Labs Private Limited in Hyderabad to Styrax Pharma Private Limited in Visakhapatnam. Three persons boarded the lorry in Hyderabad and two others in Vijayawada. However, two of them got down at Tadepalligudem. The vehicle lost control near Alampur and hit a tree. Driver Patsamatla Venkata Raju (48), his son Phani Kumar (27) and neighbour Kolati Johny (19) died on the spot. Pentapadu police are investigating the case.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/visakhapatnam/3-die-as-lorry-carrying-chemicals-catches-fire/articleshow/75209760.cms||Samson Raj
April 18, 2020||Nagpur||One more positive in Nagpur, but day of respite for Vidarbha||Nagpur: Another close contact of the Satranjipura deceased in the city tested positive on Friday taking total number of Covid-19 cases in city to 59 and Vidarbha to 114. For second consecutive day, no confirmed positive case of Covid-19 was reported in any part of Vidarbha other than Nagpur. Three patients in Buldhana recovered and were discharged from the hospital. Now, 18 patients in Vidarbha have fully recovered from Covid-19.With a 40-year-old man from the same connection testing positive, the total number of positive patients in Satranjipura deceased group reached 28. A 68-year-old man from Satranjipura had passed away during treatment at IGGMCH on April 5. His reports were tested positive on April 6.Municipal commissioner Tukaram Mundhe had launched containment drive in the area. NMC team, led by additional medical officer health Dr Praveen Gantawar, assistant commissioner Vijay Humne and zonal medical officer Dr Minakshi Mane, had traced, examined and quarantined 58 persons between April 6 and 12 and 48 people between April 13 and 15.Apart from the deceased, 26 persons under quarantine had tested positive till April 14. With the latest case, total number of positive persons from this case increased to 28. Reports of many persons are awaited.Friday brought some relief for Vidarbha as no positive patient was diagnosed from the region. Even the red zone areas of Yavatmal and Buldhana remained free from new patients. In Buldhana, three high risk contacts of the 45-year-old deceased who died on March 28, were tested negative in their consecutive tests on 14th and 15th day. They were discharged from the hospital. This took total number of discharged patients in Vidarbha to 18. Buldhana’s District collector Suman Rawat Chandra said that all other patients in Buldhana are asymptomatic and all chances of recovery. “Apart from 3 patients recovering, 19 more samples from Buldhana tested negative today. Its big relief for us,” she said. In Akola, seventh day samples of the 6 patients who were admitted on April 10 and 11 were tested on Friday. Six out of these tested negative. This shows they are on the way of recovery. 21 out of 25 samples from Amravati tested negative at AIIMS Nagpur today. Chandrapur, Bhandara, Wardha, and Gadchiroli continued their stint of zero positive patients. Washim’s only patient is on the road to recovery and his 14th tests were conducted on Friday. Results will be out by Saturday. Gondia has no positive patient at the moment. Yavatmal too went off without any positive case other than the already tested 10 positive patients admitted in the local GMCH. On Friday, 42 test reports have been received from Nagpur and all them were negative. 11 persons from the isolation wards have been discharged on Friday of whom 02 are sent to home Quarantine while 09 are sent to institutional Quarantine for next 14 days as a precautionary measure. In the last 24 hours, only three persons are admitted in the GMC isolation wards here on Friday. 38 swab samples have been sent to AIIMS, Nagpur for testing today while 69 test reports are awaited from AIIMS, Nagpur.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/one-more-positive-in-nagpur-but-day-of-respite-for-vidarbha/articleshow/75211264.cms||Chaitanya Deshpande
April 18, 2020||Allahabad||NCR delivers ration at staffers’ doorsteps||Prayagraj: Prayagraj division of North Central Railways (NCR) are providing ration to the railway staff and their doorsteps. Likewise, food and other essential items are being provided to the needy under ‘mandal rail relief fund’ in collaboration with district administration. According to public relation officer (PRO) of the division, SK Gupta, in the present emergency situation, the Prayagraj division has taken this initiative in the interest of its employees.  Under the direction of senior DPO Rajesh Kumar Sharma, the welfare staff and the civil defence are providing specially prepared affordable kits of ration to the railway families living in Lalit Nagar Railway Colony. The union representatives have also received immense support for this measure. Under this arrangement, ration was delivered at the doorsteps of 24 families in the railway colony on Friday. Railway employees have welcomed this initiative and expressed satisfaction for such support in times of crisis, said Gupta.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/allahabad/ncr-delivers-ration-at-staffers-doorsteps/articleshow/75210833.cms||---
April 18, 2020||Nagpur||2 found -ve in first test are now +ve; Gittikhadan is 5th containment zone||Nagpur: Two more persons, one from Gittikhadan and one from Kanhan, have tested positive for Covid-19. Both are now positive only a few days after having tested negative. Close contacts of the two have been traced, quarantined and containment drives launched in areas where they were residing.A 25-year-old from Gautam Nagar, Gittikhadan, and 61-year-old from Kanhan were under quarantine at Ravi Bhavan and had tested positive on Thursday. They are now undergoing treatment at GMCH.Kanhan person told TOI, “I retired a year ago from WCL. I went on a tour to Agra and returned on Telangana Express on March 18. I was traced as Khamla businessman who had tested positive on March 25 was in the same bogie. I was tested at IGGMCH on April 1. My report was negative on April 2 so I was quarantined at Ravi Bhavan. My samples were again taken on April 13. I was informed it was positive,” he said.His first samples were of 16th day since he had returned to Kanhan. His second samples are of 28th day since he returned and of 12th day at Ravi Bhavan. On Friday, he completed one month since returning home. Now, he will be treated for 14 days followed by 14 more days in home quarantine if he gets discharge in time.The district administration launched containment drive in Kanhan. His two family members have been examined and quarantined.Collector Ravindra Thakare went to Kanhan to take stock of the situation. “We are tracing entire history of the person. We will also trace where the person visited between March 17 and April 1,” he said.Asked whether he could have got infected during quarantine at Ravi Bhavan, Thakre said investigation was on. “I cannot comment before getting entire history of the person, especially his contacts since arrival and being brought to IGGMCH for testing,” he said.Kanhan person was among 12 who were traced and quarantined as per directives of municipal commissioner Tukaram Mundhe. After Khamla businessman tested positive, Mundhe had asked officials to trace all those who had travelled in same bogie.Mundhe also confirmed Gittikhadan youth had tested negative in first samples and positive in second samples. “We are keeping even those who tested negative in institutional quarantine for 14 days and asking to maintain home quarantine for 14 more days. Containment drive has been launched at Gittikhadan. We are investigating all angles,” he said.Nagpur Municipal Corporation (NMC) had traced and quarantined Gittikhadan youth on April 2 at Ravi Bhavan. He along with his friend had gone to Ajmer in Rajasthan, taken a train from Nizamuddin Railway Station and returned. They were traced through digital footprints as per orders of Ministry of Home Affairs.The two had returned on March 20. They were quarantined on 14th day and kept in one room. Their first samples taken on April 5 (17th day) were negative. Second samples were taken on April 13 in which the 25-year-old tested positive. His room partner at Ravi Bhavan was found negative.In this case too, NMC officials said need was to check contacts of the youth between March 20 and April 2.NMC zonal medical officer Dr Atik Khan and his team examined and quarantined seven family members of the youth. “He was working in a chicken centre. We also quarantined owner of the centre, one more friend and another person working there. Owner is saying the centre was closed since March 21 as lockdown was implemented here. There is no high risk if owner is to be believed. Still, we are investigating,” he said.NMC has notified containment zone with boundaries at Gittikhadan police station, entry gate of Parsi cemetery, south point of same cemetery, Taj kirana, Nirmal Ganga complex, Gittikhadan chowk on Katol road, Wellclean Hospital, Caps Regency and Shree Ramdeobaba Temple.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/2-found-ve-in-first-test-are-now-ve-gittikhadan-is-5th-containment-zone/articleshow/75211280.cms||Anjaya Anparthi
April 18, 2020||Chennai||TN’s rural economy could hold answer to post-Covid blues||With the government declaring a lock down due to Covid-19, the country witnessed a mass movement of daily workers from cities and towns back to villages. This raises the question why our rural setups are not enough to provide jobs and financial stability. Thousands of people choose to work in factories, in small urban establishments and as house help when generations before them have been working in self-sufficient villages. In the process, many of their skills passed down generations are lost. This trend has to be reversed. Post the lockdown, the migration to urban areas would again happen but to arrest that, the state should build grassroots infrastructure so that the villages can provide lucrative employment through agroforestry, trees, biodiversity and nature-based economy. Rural development needs a new impetus, so that the youth are encouraged to stay in their villages. The workers who have returned could come to the rescue of rural economy. The post Covid-19 crisis requires a new thinking for livelihood security. With too many mouths to feed, agriculture cannot be the only focus area. Development of agroforestry, horticulture, fisheries, animal husbandry and allied sectors is the need of the hour. The strength of youth and women in the rural areas can be harnessed towards this end. It is time this country relies on forestry, trees and biodiversity for economic security. There are many economically important trees and forest genetic resources (FGRs) that assures sustained economic growth. FGRs are variations in trees and other woody plant species, having potential economic, environmental value. The economic value includes timber, pulp wood, fuel, biofuel and other uses. The youth should be encouraged to invest their energy in building agroforestry models that can provide sustainable income. We have more than 2,500 tree species in the country but only 130 species have been domesticated for economic benefits. The youth can not only be engaged for the protection of our varied biodiversity, but also can help augment biodiversity resources. The next social movement can rightly happen in villages, if our focus shifts to rural areas with more reliance on agriculture and horti-silviculture-based economy. Along with smart cities, we need to plan for smart villages which will support robust agroforestry models. There is a need for lifestyle changes too. Our obsession of cars, gadgets and consumables has to give way to a healthy relationship with the earth and its natural resources. (The writer is a retired principal chief conservator of forest and head of forest force in TN)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/tns-rural-economy-could-hold-answer-to-post-covid-blues/articleshow/75197201.cms||---
April 18, 2020||Lucknow||UP: Covid takes a toll on Saubhagya scheme||LUCKNOW: The pandemic triggered lockdown has gridlocked the Centre’s flagship Saubhagya scheme, which powered BJP’s poll juggernaut in 2017 assembly elections in UP with its last-mile electricity connectivity to households. UP Power Corporation Limited (UPPCL) sources said, Saubhagya’s second phase aims at electrification of 12 lakh more rural households this summer. While the state energy department managed to provide power to 5.5 lakh households, there’s uncertainty over its outreach to 6.5 lakh houses. A senior UPPCL official said, work on the Saubhagya has come to a grinding halt because of the pandemic. “It’s a wait-and-watch situation with power employees unable to venture out to complete Saubhagya-2,” he said. Success of the scheme was being touted as BJP’s major poll plank before 2022 assembly elections after it reaped rich political dividends in both 2017 assembly poll and 2019 Lok Sabha elections. “The ambiguity over meeting Saubhagya-2 targets in the wake of pandemic is a big issue for the state government,” admitted a senior UPPCL official. Energy minister Srikant Sharma, however, maintained there would be no hurdles in the ongoing work to lend a thrust to power generation units, following Centre’s guidelines to begin work from April 20. “These are inhouse projects which will be carried out,” he said. He said even construction of transmission sub-stations and high tension lines continue to be taken up by the energy department. Allaying apprehension that maintenance of the power distribution system may not be carried out because of lockdown, Sharma said, the department has asked engineers and contractual labourers to ensure maintenance in time of emergency. “We have asked the department to provide adequate security measures, including sanitisers and masks to ground staff,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/covid-takes-a-toll-on-saubhagya-scheme/articleshow/75212138.cms||Pankaj Shah
April 18, 2020||Mysuru||Troublemakers find ways to disrupt online engineering classes||MYSURU: In accordance with the directions issued by the Visvesvaraya Technological University (VTU), most of the varsity’s affiliate colleges are conducting online classes for their students. Owing to the lockdown, the students have missed out on precious hours, which could otherwise have been used for completion of syllabus and the online classes were thought of as a solution to mitigating the problem. Unfortunately, there have been instances of students misusing the system. Some of them have complained that a few students were allowing those who were not students to participate in the online classes, which resulted in needless disruption of the classes, which were difficult to organise and hold to begin with. “Recently, a student shared the host ID of the online class with a Chinese student, who joined the class midway and caused a nuisance by chattering away in Chinese. A student of another college allegedly impersonated Vatal Nagaraj, and caused a ruckus. Mischievous students are disrupting these sessions,” rued an engineering college student. In order to avoid such unseemly incidents, the colleges decided to hold the online classes in batches by dividing each class and conducting multiple sessions. However, troublemakers continue to find ways to prevent the classes from running smoothly. “We can access the virtual classroom only after we get approval from the host, but many students continue to share the link with others. The faculty are forced to hold the classes by muting the students,” said another student. Visvesvaray Technological University vice-chancellor Karisiddappa admitted to misdemeanours on the part of students while the online classes were in progress. Pointing out that there was more to their actions than pointless mischief, he added, “This involves breach of data security. We have issued an advisory to all colleges about the need to have safeguards, and hold these classes in a secure manner.” On the other hand, students of colleges located in the smaller towns are facing trouble owing to poor connectivity. “One would hope for at least the mobile data connection to remain stable. But classes are interrupted constantly owing to problems with the network,” said an assistant professor at a VTU affiliate college. The advisory issued by VTU to its affiliate colleges was drafted by Bangalore University KR Venugopal, who is also a renowned computer scientist. The advisory enjoins on the participating students and teachers to be present in the virtual meeting room before the start of the class. The administrators have been asked strictly to allow admission only to those students with whom they are personally familiar. The students cannot log in before the host, nor can the former disable the same prior to the host. Students who are late cannot join the class once it has started, and screen-sharing has likewise been disabled. The participating students can chat only with the host and not with other students.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mysuru/troublemakers-find-ways-to-disrupt-online-engg-classes/articleshow/75206753.cms||---
April 18, 2020||Nagpur||Don’t ask for fees during lockdown: Edumin to schools||Nagpur: State’s education minister Varsha Gaikwad has asked schools not to ask for either pending or upcoming fees until the lockdown is in effect. TOI was the first to report about dilemma of school managements on whether or not to ask for fee during the lockdown period. Some schools, which have online payment facility, had sent messages to their parents to clear dues.Gaikwad said, “Our department has issued a circular in which schools have been asked not to demand fee during the lockdown period. Not only the movement of parents is restricted (due to lockdown) but also there could be financial stress on them in the current situation.”She further urged parents to inform her department about non-compliance. “If your school continues to demand fee during this period, a complaint can be filed with the local education department. All officials have been briefed about the same,” said Gaikwad. School owners say they welcome the minister’s decision but on ‘humanitarian’ grounds, affluent parents should pay the dues. Rajendra Dayma, president of state-level Independent English Schools Association (IESA), said “Those parents who can pay online must do it on their own as this will be used to pay teachers’ salaries. We are struggling financially as the final installment of fee has not been recieved yet.”He added that schools paid salaries to teaching and non-teaching staff for entire year. “It’s not like we stop salaries during summer and Diwali vacations. To ensure that every month salaries are disbursed, fees need to be paid by parents,” said Dayma.Salaries make up for the biggest chunk of expenses, according to IESA. “On average, 50% of the expenses of every school is on salary. It could be more for some institutions,” said Dayma.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/dont-ask-for-fees-during-lockdown-edumin-to-schools/articleshow/75211288.cms||Abhishek Choudhari
April 18, 2020||Indore||50 taxi turned ambulances to ferry people to hospitals||Indore: Indore district administration on Friday roped in 50 private taxies to be used as ambulance. District collector Manish Singh assigned the taxi-turned-ambulance mainly to shift patients from hospitals of green category (treating non-Covid patients) to yellow category (meant for patients with mild symptoms) while the service will also be available for people, who have to visit hospital for consultation of treatment but have no arrangement of transportation. At the time of inaugurating the facility, Singh educated them to take required precautions to stay safe from spread of Covid-19 and also provided them PPE kit. He also issued instructions for sanitizing vehicles regularly. A telephone number – 0731 2363209 has been issued to book the taxi-turned-ambulance service while the same can also be booked through Ola cab mobile application. A control room has been established to keep a track of movement of the ambulance as the same can’t be booked other than going to the hospital. The district administration’s step to rope in private taxies as ambulance came after reporting some incidents in last one week of people failing to get treatment on time due to non-availability of ambulance. In one of the cases, an elderly man of Badwali Chowki area was forced to be taken on a scooter from a private medical facility to MY Hospital as the ambulance service provider refused to shift him, the victim’s family members had alleged. In this case, victim couldn’t be saved. In another incident, a resident of Pardeshipura had to take his pregnant wife to MY Hospital in an auto-rickshaw as he also failed to get an ambulance. He alleged non-availability of ambulance and denial treatment from MY hospital and one Karuna Nursing Home as reasons behind death of his wife. According to the sources, the health department has around 20 ambulances including four received from neighboring districts. Of them, two are equipped with advanced life support system. Besides, MGM Medical College has three ambulances to cater to the patients, while the private hospitals have also been instructed to render all their services, including providing ambulance to ferry the patients, to help avoiding repetition of the situation. Meanwhile, Manish Singh said there is a possibility of recording a considerable drop on number of positive cases as reported daily. “People should not be panicked with increasing cases of Covid-19 as it’s the peak time and possibilities are there of recording a fall soon,” said Singh. Explaining reasons behind the prediction, he added that all the new patients were in high-risk zone and were earlier included in the list of the suspected patients and in primary list of positive patients. He added that most of the backlog of the pending samples of Covid-19 suspected patients has been cleared. A day after Indore reports as many as 244 new positive cases, Indore district administration on Friday declared 32 new containment zones while 71 new epicentres as residence of the patients have been marked. So far, Indore has reported as many as 842 positive cases and 47 deaths while the number of containment zones has been increased to 195. Besides, there are total 307 epicentres in the district. Apart from admitting positive cases to different hospitals for treatment, the administration has shifted around 2000 people in different quarantine facilities for next 14 days. A day after reporting two deaths of Sarafa traders and two positive patients among labours working here, the district administration on Friday shifted 54 people, who were in primary contacts of the victims, to quarantine facilities. According to administrative officials, all 54 people were staying in a same building. Of them, 24 have been shifted to Sundar Hotel in Chhoti Gwaltoli while 30 have been kept in Santosh Lodge on Nasia Road.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/indore/50-taxi-turned-ambulances-to-ferry-people-to-hospitals/articleshow/75211295.cms||---
April 18, 2020||Indore||Now you can directly contact retailers for grocery order||Indore: Indore Municipal Corporation (IMC) has started making its notified retailers’ names and contact numbers public to assist residents in placing orders for home delivery of grocery items. IMC officials said they would be distributing leaflets containing ward-wise contact information of retailers authorized for home delivery of groceries. The leaflets would also contain details of IMC’s nodal officer of the respective area to assist residents in case of any issue. “We’ve this idea to first facilitate residents with doorstep delivery through identified retailers, and once the supply is stabilized, and residents get grocery on time, then we would gradually withdraw our staff from order collection work,” said IMC commissioner Asheesh Singh. He said that at present most of the residents have purchased grocery from their notified retailers. “This is the time when we would let this system run on its own between residents and the retailers. Our existing order collection and delivery system will however continue to run on complimentary basis to assist residents in case of any difficulty in dealing with their retailers,” he said, adding that distribution of leaflets would begin from Saturday onwards. IMC however has asked residents not to call but place their orders through WhatsApp or SMS. They can place orders and also raise a complaint if any at IMC’s complaint centre – 0731-2583839. As many as 1300 retailers are engaged in home delivery in city. And IMC is now collecting 7000-8000 orders every day as compared to 20,000-25,000 order per day. And officials claim that the number of complaints have gone down to almost nil. “We haven’t received any complaint in the last three days, and orders are delivered within 24 hours’ time,” they claimed.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/indore/now-you-can-directly-contact-retailers-for-grocery-order/articleshow/75211276.cms||---
April 18, 2020||Puducherry||Ponducherry cop turns autodriver to help mom, baby||PUDUCHERRY: On Monday night, as Megala writhed in pain and cried for help, the almighty answered her call — and the angel he sent was dressed in khaki. R Karunakaran, a constable attached to Puducherry armed police, came to the rescue of the pregnant woman in labour at a Covid-19 containment zone as he drove her in an auto to a hospital in Puducherry to save the mother and the baby on time. As Megala delivered a boy within a few minutes of being admitted to the hospital, doctors, paramedics, and the woman’s relatives thanked the Good Samaritan. The 31-year-old constable was posted on duty at the containment zone at Muthialpet on Monday night. Around 11.45pm, an elderly couple approached Karunakaran and pleaded with him to arrange an auto as their daughter had gone into labour. Realising the emergency, the constable approached a few autos parked on the roadside for help. “I rang the calling bell of a few houses where autos were parked. An elderly man from one of the houses said he rents out autos but cannot drive one,” Karunakaran said.” As I used to drive my friends’ autos some 10, 15 years ago, I decided to drive the auto myself, and took the key from him. I took the woman and her parents to Rajiv Gandhi women and child hospital. We reached on time and she was rushed to the labour room. I returned to duty. Later on, I came to know that she had given birth to a baby boy within five minutes of her admission,” Karunakaran said. The constable said he was elated to learn that the delivery was normal, and the mother and the baby were fine. Megala and her relatives sent sweets to Karunakaran the next day. “They were kind enough to send me sweets. I visited the mother and baby the next day and took a few selfies with them,” he said. DGP Balaji Srivastava presented an appreciation certificate to Karunakaran recognizing his service. Muthialpet MLA Vaiyapuri Manikandan honoured Karunakaran with a shawl. Karunakaran’s two elder brothers are also in the police force R Prabhakaran, a home guard attached to special branch, and R Manoharan, a police constable attached to vigilance and anti-corruption wing.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/puducherry/pondy-cop-turns-autodriver-to-help-mom-baby/articleshow/75212143.cms||Bosco Dominique
April 18, 2020||Visakhapatnam||Sustainable living need of the hour, says climate activist||Visakhapatnam: Climate activist Deepsri Peela, who has been campaigning in the city on Fridays since before lockdown began, has shifted her fight to the digital sphere. On Friday, which marked the 21st week of her ‘School Strike for Climate’, Peela said the ‘Fridays for Future’ digital campaign started before the pandemic in an effort to include more people in the movement. The digital campaign has drawn more participants since lockdowns were announced in various countries. The 15-year-old girl is also a part of the ‘We the Planet’ digital campaign. “We have celebrities from all over the world who will be speaking about individual and systematic changes that they plan to incorporate in their own lives in order to inspire their own audiences,” said Peela, who is organiser for Youth Climate Save Movement, India. Peela started the ‘School Strike for Climate’ campaign to spread awareness on the global climate crisis. “Covid-19 has already taught us many lessons and the need of the hour is to lead a sustainable life and to live in harmony with nature,” she added. On aspects of global warming she finds most damaging, Peela said, “It is ecological breakdown and the disturbances in wildlife that the crisis is causing. An ecological imbalance due to rapid species extinction and endangerment is breaking our ecosystem. The animals that were once abundant and the forests that we lived in harmony with are vanishing as we are ‘expanding’ our civilisation,” she said. “The only support I wish for comes in the form of action. And until now, I’d received none. I would do this even if my face was unseen and my identity hidden. If my voice is heard, that’s enough,” said the activist.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/visakhapatnam/sustainable-living-need-of-the-hour-says-climate-activist/articleshow/75209787.cms||Reshma Jain
April 18, 2020||Mumbai||Dharavi past 100 mark with 15 Covid-19 cases; death ups toll to 10||MUMBAI: Dharavi reported 15 new Covid-19 cases, including a death, on Friday. The total positive cases rose to 101 and the death toll to 10. The latest cases were from Muslim Nagar, Matunga labour camp, Indira Nagar, Laxmi chawl, Janata Society and Social Nagar. The deceased was a 62-year-old from Matunga labour camp admitted to the BMCrun Sion hospital. “We directly received information from the hospital authorities that the patient was Covid-19 positive and had passed away,” a BMC official said. The official said the the death and three more positive tests were the first cases from the labour camp and the BMC would conduct fever camps in the area soon. The other three cases from the labour camp were male patients aged 24 years, 37 years and 65 years. The first positive test in Dharavi was on April 1, a 56-year-old man who died later in the day. A garment unit businessman, he had hosted Tablighi Jamaat members in a second flat he owned in his residential complex. Later, others in his complex and people who were regulars at a place of worship were also found infected. The Tablighi Jamaat members had attended a religious congregation in Nizamuddin, Delhi, a gathering that is behind the spread of the novel coronavirus among hundreds across the country. Positive cases also began popping up from different parts of the massive slum spread, the congested spaces aiding the spread. Three pockets in Dharavi today have a high number of patients: Muslim Nagar with 21 cases, including a death; Mukund Nagar with 18 cases; and Social Nagar with 10 cases, including a death. BMC officials said the process of hiring private doctors, ward boys and nurses to handle Covid-19 patients from the area had started. “Those hired will be kept at the institutional quarantine centres within Dharavi so that the suspected Covid-19 cases can be closely monitored,” a BMC official said. The doctors will be paid a monthly remuneration of Rs 1.5 lakh to Rs 2 lakh for an eight-hour duty cycle, while nurses and lab technicians will get Rs 30,000 per month. Ward boys and labourers will be paid Rs 20,000 monthly remuneration for an eight-hour duty cycle.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/dharavi-past-100-mark-with-15-cases-death-ups-toll-to-10/articleshow/75212140.cms||Richa Pinto
April 18, 2020||Indore||39 cured patients return home||Indore: Thirty nine Covid-19 patients were discharged from Shree Aurbindo Institute of Medical Sciences and MRTB hospital on Friday. Four including one resident of Khargone district was discharged from MRTB in the afternoon after getting cured of the disease. The other three women were residents of Tatpatti Bakhal. Health workers clapped when the cured persons walked out of the hospital. The cured persons thanked the staff and appreciated their hard work. Dr Salil Bhargava, HoD of respiratory medicine department said, “The cured persons have been treated in accordance to the guidelines issued by AIIMS. The patients were administered HCQ’s along with other symptomatic drugs depending on the situation.” The other 35 people were discharged from SAIMS in the night inlcuding 14 women. The people discharged from SAIMS also included two male children aged two and five years. Most of the discharged from SAIMS were residents of Khajrana and Tanjim Nagar. They were discharged after they were tested negative twice for the infection. Dr Ravi Doshi HoD of respiratory medicine said, “Patients are administered drugs prescribed by AIIMS for this disease. They have also given multivitamins.” With this, the tally of cured persons touches 75 in Indore and one each of Ujjain, Khargone and other districts. Indore reported 842 positive cases and 47 deaths till April 16 evening. After this, the active cases remained at 720 in the districts.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/indore/39-cured-patients-return-home/articleshow/75211303.cms||---
April 18, 2020||Visakhapatnam||Visakhapatnam: Orphans, elderly people given essentials||VISAKHAPATNAM: In an effort to help the inmates of old age home and orphanages fight during the lockdown, e-commerce app Farm19 is donating essentials to these establishments. Each packet contains rice, edible oil, washing powder, toothpaste, Bengal gram, black gram, wheat flour and a few other essentials. They are also distributing cooked meals to the needy. The e-commerce platform, in association with the Young Indians (Yi) chapter of CII, also distributed essencial commodities to fishermen families as well as migrant labourers from Bihar, Kolkata, and Odisha who are stranded in the city. Sanjay Romala, founder of Farm19, said, “We have distributed more than 500 packets of essentials so far. We have also taken up distributions in orphanages and old age homes as they are facing severe financial crunch.” “We have also introduced vegetable and fruit combo packs for home delivery. People can place orders on www.farm19.co.in. They can also contribute towards donation packs,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/visakhapatnam/orphans-elderly-people-given-essentials/articleshow/75209814.cms||---
April 18, 2020||Goa||Can’t afford to slack off even if Goa has 0 cases, says Rane||Panaji: Health minister Vishwajit Rane said it was too early to declare that Goa has entered a safe zone and it needs to ramp up testing urgently to make the state safe from Covid-19 virus. “Ramping up of testing is the need of the hour. Zero cases is a false sense of satisfaction. Once we ramp up our testing and get negative results, that will give us a sense of security. We will know exactly what is happening in the state,” Rane told TOI on Friday. “When you reach the stage of zero cases, then you need to draw fresh protocols and we are in the process of doing it,” the health minister said. Goa currently has one active case of Covid-19 positive patients, while six patients have been cured. South Goa district was declared green zone earlier this week and North Goa will follow suit once the seventh patient is declared cured. As per the Centre’s criteria, districts with no coronavirus cases are categorised as green zones. “Just because you are zero today, you cannot declare it as a green state. Tomorrow, if you have a positive case, then will you make it a red or orange,” the health minister said. He said the doctors, nurses and the frontline staff had all done “exceptional job”, but Goa should not put its guard down. “Goa has not reported a single positive case since past two weeks. But it doesn’t mean Goa is safe. Goa is much smaller than a district of a larger state,” he said. As of Friday, 618 real-time reverse transcription polymerase chain reaction (RT-PCR) tests were conducted. Rapid testing facility has been installed in North Goa district hospital, Mapusa and sub district hospital, Ponda to test suspects. Truenat beta CoV, is a screening test and if sample tests positive, confirmatory test needs to be conducted as per guidelines issued by Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR). Rane, who also holds the industry portfolio, said he planned to have 12 smart kiosks in industrial estates to facilitate testing of migrant and industrial workers. “We will also be taking a call with anti-body testing along with swabs,” he said. The health ministry, he said, is in the process of drawing a protocol for expanded testing. “We are also seeing how best to increase the testing facilities for migratory workers and industrial workers. Plus, we are planning to have kiosks in the border areas,” he said. There will be protocols drawn to have random testing as well, he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/cant-afford-to-slack-off-even-if-goa-has-0-cases-says-rane/articleshow/75212153.cms||---
April 18, 2020||Nagpur||IMA protests order to treat non-Covid patients free at pvt hospitals||NAGPUR: The Indian Medical Association (IMA) has protested the state government’s move to direct private hospitals to treat all non-Covid-19 patients referred by Government Medical Colleges and Hospitals (GMCHs) free of cost. The move came after all GMCHs and municipal corporation hospitals were converted to Covid-19 treatment centres in view of the outbreak. IMA president Dr Avinash Bhondwe and secretary Dr Pankaj Bandarkar rushed a letter to chief minister Uddhav Thackeray and health minister Rajesh Tope, apprising them that it would be unviable for hospitals to treat such patients free, and they would be forced to down shutters. The IMA has demanded withdrawing the direction immediately, warning that it would spell doom for the private establishments and lead to irreparable loss to the already fragile health care facilities. “We’ve demanded that the government reimburse private hospitals as per Ayushman Bharat, Rajiv Gandhi, Mahatma Phule schemes, or through CGS/EGIC, for the patients referred by GMCHs. These hospitals are already under huge burden of loan instalments and staffers’ salaries. The nationwide lockdown has further worsened their economic condition, as no business is taking place,” Bhondwe told TOI. The government’s decision to ask hospitals to provide free treatment was implemented through respective collectors in various cities last week. “There is no uniformity in the collectors’ directives in this regard. In Mumbai, they said doctors would get Rs4,000 per patient while in other areas they were told to treat non-Covid patients free,” the IMA chief said. Bhondwe further pointed out the Union health ministry’s directives on April 14 to the states regarding methodology of starting dedicated Covid-19 hospitals in GMCHs and seeking cooperation of private hospitals. “It has clearly laid down the procedure to be followed and there is no mention of offering free treatment to non-Covid patients,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/ima-protests-order-to-treat-non-covid-patients-free-at-pvt-hospitals/articleshow/75211294.cms||Vaibhav Ganjapure
April 18, 2020||Kolkata||Kolkata doctors in PPE remove 1kg tumour, save nine-month-old after five-hour surgery||KOLKATA: A complex surgery has saved a nine-month-old baby with 1kg “foetus-in-a-foetu” tumour during the lockdown. Wearing helmets, goggles and other protective gears, doctors of AMRI Mukundapur operated on the baby from Jharkhand, Pratik Narayan, for five hours on April 13. His parents had knocked on the doors of four other hospitals, including Tata Medical Centre where it was presumed that the tumour was malignant. “Soon after we came to know that Pratik needed a surgery, we wasted no time. We took a train and reached Kolkata on March 31. We ran from pillar to post, but no hospital was ready for the surgery. Everyone said that we would have to return after the lockdown. Eventually, we landed up at AMRI Hospital on April 11. The doctors admitted him immediately and performed the surgery on April 13,” Ravi Kumar, father of the baby and a medical representative from Dhanbad told TOI on Friday. The baby had been running high fever for several days and complained of acute abdominal pain. “He was diagnosed with a large abdominal tumour by a local physician in Jharkhand. The lump was felt at first by his mom. We planned an urgent surgery,” said consultant pediatric surgeon Subhasis Saha, who led the team of surgeons. Hiralal Konar, another senior surgeon, said, “The baby’s CT scan showed a foetus-like growth, which is often called ‘fetus in fetu’ or a ‘foetus in a foetu’ tumour. It is a developmental abnormality, in which a mass of tissue resembling a fetus forms inside the body. One theory is that the mass begins as a normal fetus but becomes enveloped inside its twin. The other theory is that the mass is a highly developed teratoma.” Saha said, “It was an extremely difficult surgery as the tumour was very big, arising from the left adrenal gland and was compressing the nearby organs like the left kidney, stomach and the spleen. It was fixed to the large vessel of the body called aorta. It was a challenging task to separate the tumour from the aorta. The aortic rent was repaired after cross clamping.” The doctors said that the surgery had become too complex, especially since they had covered themselves with helmets, goggles and other protective gears. “The baby went through a stormy post-operative period and needed elective ventilation for 48 hours. He is doing well now,” added Saha.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/kolkata-doctors-in-ppe-remove-1kg-tumour-save-nine-month-old-after-five-hour-surgery/articleshow/75211315.cms||Ajanta Chakraborty
April 18, 2020||Nagpur||Those who test positive even after 14th day to be tested on 20th day||Nagpur: Two Covid-19 positive girls, who were tested positive even after 14th day of their isolation period, might get discharged soon as per the new treatment protocol, provided their samples test negative on 20th day.The new treatment, diagnostic and discharge protocol for the Covid-19 patients released on Thursday by the directorate of health services has several reliefs for patients who are admitted in isolation wards. If a patient is tested negative on 14th day, there is no need for them to stay in hospitals for another 14 days in isolation. As per new protocol, if day 14 and 15 swab sample remains positive, fresh swab will be taken again on day 20 and 21. If these two consecutive samples are negative, then patient will be eligible for discharge. Doctors may keep the patient under observation for two more days, but there is no need to complete another 14-day isolation. After discharge, the patient will be in home quarantine and follow rules of hand hygiene, social distancing, and use of masks. The protocol also has details about new clinical staging system, medication, lifestyle modifications and exercise for the patients admitted in isolation. As soon as they are admitted into the isolation ward, Complete Blood Count (CBC), Renal Function test (RFT), Random Blood Sugar (RBS), Liver Function test (LFT), and Electrocardiogram (ECG) of every patient will be conducted. Earlier, there were three stages of infection — mild, moderate and severe. The new protocol has divided mild stage into three groups and moderate into two groups. Now, there is separate treatment and medicines for positive patients without any symptoms, patients with symptoms, and patients with symptoms as well as comorbidities like diabetes, hypertension and age risk. Patients with pneumonia and those who have respiratory failures due to pneumonia are placed in separate groups. Respiratory failure patients will be referred in ICU. “We had earlier released treatment protocol for confirmed Covid-19 adult and paediatric patients. But looking at changing conditions and death rate in Maharashtra, some modification in treatment and drug therapy were needed,” said Dr TP Lahane, director of medical education and research (DMER). “All government hospitals will treat Covid-19 patients following the new protocol,” he added.New Clinical Staging system Stage I | Mild (early infection) Group A | Asymptomatic but positive for Covid-19 Group B | Symptomatic patients showing symptoms like fever, dry cough, shortness of breath, myalgiaGroup C | Symptomatic patients having comorbidities such as obesity, age above 60, COPD, kidney problem etc. Stage II-a | Moderate Group D | Pneumonia (LRTI) without respiratory failureStage II- | : ModerateGroup E | Pneumonia (LRTI) with respiratory failureStage III | Severe Group F | Pneumonia (LRTI) with respiratory failure multi organ dysfunction syndromeWhat govt is doing for patients:Isolation ward | Arrangement of isolation facility in government institutions Medicines | All medicines, including Hydroxychloroquine, given during treatment. In addition, drugs are given to improve immunity and reduce viral replicationICU facility | Patients in Group D, E and F are shifted to ICUsVentilators | Patients who present with acute breathlessness and diagnosed with ARDS or SARI get ventilator support||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/those-who-test-positive-even-after-14th-day-to-be-tested-on-20th-day/articleshow/75211301.cms||Chaitanya Deshpande
April 18, 2020||Allahabad||8 Covid patients allowed to go home after third -ve test||Prayagraj: Eight novel coronavirus patients from Prayagraj region would be discharged and allowed to go home after they tested negative for the infection for the third time on Friday. A Covid-19 positive patient is released from isolation if he/she tests negative for the virus for the third consecutive time. The eight patients had been undergoing treatment at Coivd-19 Level One Hospital in Kotwa. Among the released patients, six are from Pratapgarh, one from Kaushambi and one Indonesain national who was staying in Prayagraj. Till now, nine novel coronavirus cases have been reported from the three districts of Prayagraj region — six from Pratapgrah, two from Kaushambi and one from Prayagraj. The patients diagnosed in from Pratapgrah and Prayagraj had attended the Tablighi Jamaat event in Delhi in March, which has been linked to several cases across the country. In Prayagraj, an Indonesian national who had returned to the city after attending the congregation had tested positive for the Covid-19 last week. However, district officials are yet to confirm where the international citizen would be taken as his passport has already been seized. A lookout notice was issued against him earlier this week, prohibiting him from leaving the country. Nodal official and additional chief medical officer Dr Rishi Sahai said, “Currently, nine novel coronavirus patients are undergoing treatment at Covid-19 Level One Hospital in Kotwa and eight of them would be released.” Sahai said that a third sample of the Kaushambi-based man, who tested positive for the virus in the second test too, will be collected on Sunday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/allahabad/8-covid-patients-allowed-to-go-home-after-third-ve-test/articleshow/75210646.cms||---
April 18, 2020||Indore||Over 60% cos may get nod to start ops||Indore: Around 60 to 70 per cent industrial units of Indore region are anticipated to get nod to resume operations after April 20 with conditions to make accommodation and transport arrangements for workforce. Following the guidelines issued by ministry of home affairs (MHA) allowing relaxations to selected industrial and commercial activities, all pharmaceutical, food processing, grains and packaging industries of the region may get approval to resume operations but resumption is seen as a challenge for micro small and medium enterprises lacking infrastructure and liquidity, said officials and industry players. Industries department held a video-conference on Friday connecting officials of different industrial belts to discuss strategies such as criteria for granting permissions to industries, workers issue, transport and safety norms among others. Madhya Pradesh Industry Development Corporation (MPIDC) Indore head Kumar Purushottam said, “Most of the industries of the region will get the permission to operate but they will have to follow the laid guidelines ensuring social distancing, hygiene among others. The most important is that industries will have to arrange for the transportation of their workers while those who have space will have to arrange accommodation of workers on their campus.” Industries based out of Special Economic Zone will also be operational from next week. As per the guidelines by MHA, industries outside the municipal limit shall be allowed to operate though units falling under the containment areas will be restricted. Industries department discussed criteria’s and strategies to allow permissions to small scale industries of the region. Ashok Khandelia, president, Association of Industries Dewas said, “It will be easier for big industries to comply with conditions laid by the MHA but for MSME it will not be possible to comply with all. Besides, operations in full swing without having full supply chain will be difficult for industries. Only few will be able to resume their partial production.” Industry players said proper guidelines for industries should be issued by the state government to give clarity on operations.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/indore/over-60-cos-may-get-nod-to-start-ops/articleshow/75211311.cms||---
April 18, 2020||Nagpur||‘Have no money for even food’||In this series, TOI brings to you lockdown tales of common man who are suffering a lotI live in Subhash Nagar with my wife and seven-year-old daughter. I had around Rs 5,000 in my bank which enabled me to buy food since March 15. However, now I have run out of money and want to go back to my village near Saunsar (district Chhindwara) but the border is sealed. I don’t how I will survive if the lockdown is not relaxed after April 20.I used to earn Rs 20,000 to Rs 25,000 per month before the lockdown but haven’t earned anything since March 15. My wife is a homemaker and does not earn anything. So my family is completely dependent on my earnings.I live in a rented house and the landlord pays water and electricity bills. I have told him I can’t pay the rent for April. He has agreed but told me I will have to pay it later. I don’t have a below poverty line (BPL) card and so don’t get wheat and rice at subsidized rates. I have to buy everything at market price. My grocery store owner has refused to sell me things on credit.Fortunately, I don’t have to pay my daughter’s school fees now because the school collected it in January. My daughter studies in a private school, where fee is quite high.I still get calls for electrical works but am unable to attend to them for the fear of police. The cops should allow people like me to work after April 20 or at least let me go home. Otherwise, we three will simply starve.(As told to Ashish Roy)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/have-no-money-for-even-food/articleshow/75211323.cms||---
April 18, 2020||Indore||3,000 barricades bought for Simhastha put to use in Ujjain||Ujjain: Metal barricades purchased to ease traffic during Simhastha 2016 have found their usefulness during Covid-19 lockdown in the temple city. Over 3,000 barricades are being installed to isolate and cordon off containment areas. Ujjain has so far recorded 27 Covid-19 positive cases and six deaths due to the infection. District administration has formed six containment zones to prevent the movement of people and enable door-to-door screening of households. “The barricades, purchased during Simhastha 2016, are now being installed to prevent movement to and out of the containment zones. They were kept in the custody of public works department (PWD) and are often supplied to other districts, when need arises,” said police inspector Jaiprakash Arya. Ujjain district administration had procured large number of barricades during the Simhastha and around 10,000 pieces are currently stored with PWD. These were extensively used during the festival to regulate traffic and movement of pilgrims to different ghats in the city. During the lockdown, police were finding it difficult to completely block the wide city roads. Now, they have used these barricades to block one part of the two-lane roads and divert movement on the other – helping in controlling and checking people.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/indore/3000-barricades-bought-for-simhastha-put-to-use-in-ujjain/articleshow/75211320.cms||Brajesh Parmar
April 18, 2020||Goa||From Monday, masks compulsory in public, violators to be fined: Sawant||Panaji: Chief minister Pramod Sawant said on Friday that the state government has made the use of face masks compulsory in public, and the rule would be enforced from April 20. Sawant said the modalities were being worked out, including the fine that would be issued to violators. Sawant said that regarding the use of masks, people need not buy face masks but instead make them at home. This is consistent with TOI’s #MaskIndia campaign, which the paper launched early this month, to promote the use of homemade masks in public spaces. Prime Minister Narendra Modi and several political and other bigwigs too endorsed the campaign. On April 15, TOI reported that state health minister Vishwajit Rane pushed for masks to be made compulsory in public places. “The use of face masks will be monitored by the police and other authorities,” Sawant said, adding that government departments have also been directed to get face masks made by self-help groups so that they’re available commercially at a reasonable price. The CM also said that the government would strictly implement other measures like no spitting, chewing of gutka, smoking and consumption of alcohol from April 20 to May 3. He also said that gatherings of more than four persons will not be permitted, and that Section 144 CrPC will be in force till May 3. Meanwhile, as government offices are set to open shortly, Sawant said that thermal guns have been purchased and will be distributed to public officers. As per guidelines issued by the Union ministry of home affairs (MHA), the state government has allowed economic activities to restart in the Goa’s industrial estates. The CM said that government officials have begun holding meetings to see what relaxations would be given in the state. “We want to start industries in the state,” he said. “After the meeting, it was decided that the Industrial Development Corporation’s (IDC) functional manager would issue the permission to start units in industrial estates.” He added that industries will have follow all norms, including social distancing, when they sart on April 20. “No company can get employees or workers from outside the state till May 3,” he said, adding that restaurants, malls and markets would continue to remain closed, while grocery shops will remain open. Meanwhile, speaking on house repair or in-process construction of houses, Sawant said that the panchyata secretary must be approached for permission to start construction work. On Friday, Sawant held a teleconference with sarpanches of all 191 village panchayats, and discussed steps taken to avoid the spread of coronavirus. He also said that agriculture has been restarted in the state. On foreign nationals, the CM said most of them have been evacuated, and that there are only 150 foreigners left in the state. Stating that the Shirgao zatra has been calcelled, Sawant appealed to devotees not to stay together during fasting period.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/from-monday-masks-compulsory-in-public-violators-to-be-fined-sawant/articleshow/75212180.cms||---
April 18, 2020||Mumbai||93% drop in a day? Only 12 cases in Mumbai, says government||MUMBAI: Even as Maharashtra’s Covid-19 death toll crossed 200, the total number of cases in Mumbai and the state showed a drastic reduction on Friday evening. State officials pegged the tally at 3,320 cases, including 201 deaths, on Friday, even as the city tally rose by just 12 cases—93% lower than the 177 cases registered on Thursday. However, BMC data pegged the figure at 77. The state registered 118 cases —a drop of 59% over the previous day. The last time the state saw fewer than 200 cases in a day was on April 11 (187 cases). The number of deaths—7 across the state—continued to be in single digits for the third day in a row. The case fatality rate for the state remained at 6.05% for the second day running. In Mumbai, which saw five deaths on Friday, it went from 5.64% to 5.85%.The state officials explained the mere 12-case increase in Mumbai’s tally by saying the government had only considered the numbers up to Friday afternoon; the civic corporation put out an increase of 77 cases by evening. According to BMC statistics, cases in the city dropped from 204 on Tuesday to 183 on Wednesday, and further to 107 on Thursday. The number dropped to double digits (77 cases) on Friday, after a week; the last time Mumbai had reported fewer than 100 cases was on April 8, where there were 79 cases. BJP leader Kirit Somaiya tweeted “HeraPheri by Thackeray Sarkar.” He alleged the BMC had changed guidelines to bring down corona-positive patients numbers. His tweet said 385 patients were admitted and 204 tested positive on April 14, the corresponding numbers were 261 and 183 on April 15, and 299 and 107 on April 16 and 201 and 77 on April 17. Dr Archana Patil from the state’s Directorate of Health Services didn’t comment on the dip in cases in Maharashtra but said more positive cases from Mumbai will be added to Saturday’s health bulletin. Eight positive cases and three deaths were reported in Pune Metropolitan Region (Pune, Pimpri Chinchwad and Pune rural) on Friday. The total positive cases there now stand at 565 and deaths at 48. The BMC update on Friday said five more deaths took place in the Greater Mumbai area, taking the city toll to 122. The dead included three patients who had co-morbidities and two with age-related problems. Two hypertensive patients—a 58-year-old male and 56-year-old female who passed away within a day of admission—died due to Covid-19 in civic-run Sion Hospital. Two other male patients—a 61-year-old and a 51-year-old— had no co-morbidities but passed away at KEM Hospital, Parel, and Kasturba Hospital, Chinchpokli, respectively. A 40-year-old diabetic patient was the fifth victim on Friday; he died after a day’s hospitalisation at Shatabadi Hospital in Kandivli. Meanwhile, the city’s hotspot, Dharavi, reported 15 new cases, taking the tally there to 101, including 10 deaths, in 17 days. BMC officials said 48,332 people are under home quarantine as on April 17. Out of these, 3,913 people were shifted to institutional quarantine while 11,368 people have already completed their quarantine. They added that 201 suspected patients were admitted to various civic facilities on Friday even as 37 recovered and got discharged. Among those who tested positive from the city was a BEST bus conductor, raising alarm in the transport division. The entire staff was placed on high alert to take precautions. The BEST drivers and conductors are frontline staff who ferry essential workers daily. Malegaon reported 14 new Covid-19 positive cases on Friday, the highest single-day count for the city. The total number of positive cases in the city now stands at 60, which forms the bulk of the 69 cases in Nashik district. All three deaths in the district due to the infection are also from Malegaon. Five men from Thane city tested positive for the virus, taking the total cases to 115 in the satellite city so far. One case was reported from Dombivli while two more tested positive in Bhiwandi, taking the number of Covid-19 patients there to three in the powerloom town.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/93-drop-in-a-day-only-12-cases-in-city-says-govt/articleshow/75212188.cms||---
April 18, 2020||Goa||‘Avoid gatherings during Ramadan’||Panaji: Panaji mayor Uday Madkaikar has appealed to citizens to do Namaaz at home during Ramadan.  “This is for your own good. I also appeal to all Catholic, Hindu and Muslims brothers to stay at home and say your prayers so that we can be united in fighting the virus,” he said. The association of all Goa Muslim Jamats in an advisory for Ramadan has appealed to the entire Muslim community to pray at home and conduct Iftar only with their own families at their own homes. “"No Iftar should be held at the masjids across the state of Goa. Do not arrange Iftar parties at home or in your localities for relatives and others,” president of the association Shaikh Bashir Ahmed stated in the advisory. The association further advised Muslims not to engage in prayers with neighbours or get people together to perform Taraweeh at a terrace or any other place. The Namaz performed five times a day is also to be done at home, as the association has appealed to all Masjid committees to strictly follow instructions issued by the government during the ongoing lockdown. While purchasing essentials, the association also advises people to maintain social distancing along with the compulsory use of face mask. During Ramadan, Muslims have been asked to reach out to the needy as well as to remember doctors, frontline health workers and police who are helping fight the pandemic in their prayers.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/avoid-gatherings-during-ramadan/articleshow/75364251.cms||---
April 18, 2020||Allahabad||45 held in city for lockdown breach||Prayagraj: Police arrested 45 persons after lodging 18 FIRs against them in different parts of the city for allegedly violating lockdown rules in the city between Thursday and Friday. The FIRs were registered at police stations in areas like Colonelganj, Georgetown, Soraon, Mauaima, Ghurpur, Kaudhiyara,Khuldabad, Cantt and Sarayinayat. Besides, 84 persons were booked under section 188 of the Indian Penal Code, which covers violation of section 144 of the CrPc. Police also seized 11 vehicles and challaned 1,049 owners on Friday. Meanwhile, Prayagraj district administration would rope in civil defence personnel, traders’ association, self-help groups and NGOs to ensure that residents practise social distancing to shield themselves against novel coronavirus (Covid-19). District magistrate (Prayagraj) Bhanu Chandra Goswami on Friday met representatives of civil defence, traders’ associations and NGOs\SHGs at Sangam Auditorium and discussed the need for a work plan to ensure that people practise social distancing. The DM also said that organisations and volunteers should themselves practise social too distancing while distributing food packets among the homeless and needy. He said, “We have noticed that norms of social distancing was not complied with during drives to distribute food packets and other commodities among the homeless.” The DM also said that the administration was planning to ensure that vegetable vendors reach more and more localities so that residents can buy vegetables and fruits on reasonable prices. The DM also sought cooperation of representatives of Allahabad Chemists & Druggists Association and asked the traders to pay special attention to the needs of those suffering from serious medical conditions like cancer.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/allahabad/45-held-in-city-for-lockdown-breach/articleshow/75210688.cms||---
April 18, 2020||Kolkata||100m stretch of Padmapukur Road turns into no-entry-no-exit zone for a fortnight||Kolkata: When 77-year-old Soumen Banerjee of Padmapukur Road in Bhowanipore stepped out to buy medicine from a pharmacy at the end of the lane, he never imagined what he would encounter. A policeman stopped him, trained a thermal gun at his head, asked him what medicine he needed, called a local club member to buy it on his behalf, and then escorted him back home after he received the medicines. For the 280-odd residents of a 100-metre stretch of Padmapukur Road that was barricaded on Thursday night, the lockdown assumed a whole new meaning on Friday with police, armed with thermal guns, camping on both ends, barring entry and exit to and from the locality. The Bhowanipore police station OC himself remained posted in a police car . A wholesale medicine trader, who lives in a building in the middle of the locked down zone, had tested Covid positive a few days ago and there have been whispers about a stricter lockdown in the area. Most residents were inside their homes on Thursday night, when cops from the Bhowanipore police station arrived and barricaded a stretch of Padmapukur Road. Though some did see the barricades being put up, many were taken by surprise on Friday morning. They realized their lives would be different for the next fortnight. While the rest of Bhowanipore went about as usual, residents of that stretch would be unable to step out of their homes at least till May 3. A few, like the elderly Banerjee, tried go out for essentials but realised the police meant business. The strict watch became even more apparent when senior officers from Lalbazar, including additional police commissioner (crime) Supratim Sarkar, arrived around 11.30am to inspect the clampdown. The Bhowanipore PS OC, who had arrived before the Lalbazar seniors reached, remained put till the end of the day. “We will camp here 24×7. There will be cops with thermal guns posted at both ends. Should someone have to leave or enter the area in extreme emergency, thermal checks will be carried out first. But residents within the confinement zone will generally not be allowed to venture out, nor will people from outside be allowed in,” a policeman said, adding if anyone played truant, the person could face the possibility of arrest. A senior citizen, who had ostensibly turned a doctor’s prescription into an all-day pass to move around the locality, was politely but firmly told not to leave for the next fortnight. “Please don’t force us to do something that we would not wish to and you will regret,” the policeman said before the elderly person beat a hasty retreat. Subhankar Roy Chowdhury, who lives outside the containment zone, along with four local volunteers, has agreed to run errands for the residents in the lockdown stretch, such as buying medicines and groceries. A WhatsApp group has been created for residents to place their orders from local grocers and pharmacies and make online payment. On Saturday morning, a truck of state agri-retail initiative Sufal Bangla will set up a vegetable market on the edge of the zone so that the residents can order what they need get them handed over. Ward 72 councillor Sandip Bakshi has also offered to deliver medicines free of cost. This clampdown has been put in place after a a 60-year-old resident, who runs a wholesale medicine business in Burrabazar, tested positive for Covid-19 on April 9. He had himself got admitted to a private hospital off EM Bypass when he suspected he had contracted novel coronavirus, while his wife and daughters have been quarantined in a hotel. The neighbourhood was sanitized thereafter. Shaken by the news, the neighbours had initially stayed put in their homes, but had gone back to normal lives, till the new containment measures on Friday forced them indoors.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/100m-stretch-of-padmapukur-road-turns-into-no-entry-no-exit-zone-for-a-fortnight/articleshow/75211340.cms||---
April 18, 2020||Hyderabad||Terminal patients struggle to get hold of morphine||HYDERABAD: A 35-year-old stage 4 cancer patient from Nizamabad made several calls to doctors in the area around Nizamabad, when he was unable to come back to Hyderabad to get his dose of morphine (a painkiller used for end-stage cancer patients). Unable to access morphine for days, the patient died a painful death without getting the necessary painkiller. “The patient was operated in Hyderabad previously and had undergone chemotherapy, following which the cancer had returned. He underwent the second line of chemotherapy and was on opioid medication after having exhausted all treatment options. Unfortunately, due to the lockdown, he was unable to reach Hyderabad for morphine and had come to me seeking the opioid drug. Not just morphine, but all opioid drugs are in acute shortage and I had to give him an alternative injectable pain relief medicine but it is not as effective. The patient succumbed 6-7 days ago,” said Dr Prashanth Kandra, radiation oncologist, Indur Cancer Hospital in Nizamabad. Already difficult to access, morphine (useful for end stage patients of cancer and other diseases) has become even more difficult to get. Many terminally patients are making panic calls to palliative care centres and hospitals for the pain relief medicine to ease out the painful condition of end of stage patients. Extreme pain is the most common manifestation of end-stage cancer, which has the maximum number of terminally-ill patients who reach end of treatment each month. The handful of NGOs working in the area of palliative care for terminally ill patients and oncologists treating cancer patients report getting upto 15 distress calls per week, asking for supply of morphine. “While this is a very difficult time for all, it is more so for patients who are stuck in their homes and suffering. We are getting many calls from cancer patients who can’t come to the hospital and are stuck in homes in their end stage, especially the ones in districts. Our drivers are working overtime to deliver medicines in their doorstep and patients requiring palliative care are followed up by tele and video conference. We are still making a few compassionate home visits,” said Dr Gayatri Palat, president, Pain Relief and Palliative Care Society and head of palliative care, MNJ Cancer Hospital.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/terminal-patients-struggle-to-get-hold-of-morphine/articleshow/75212186.cms||Amrita Didyala
April 18, 2020||Indore||No plumbers to fix borewells in city, residents grapple with water woes||Indore: Lockdown seems to have added to city’s water woes this summer. There has been an increase in complaints of borewell malfunction across Indore as residents of different areas have started complaining about it to the civic body asking for supply of water through tankers. Bangali, Kanadia Road, Silicon City, Nipania, Chandan Nagar are among the worst affected as most of the complaints are from these areas as residents are unable to find any plumber to get their borewell fixed. The fact is visible with number of complaints received through IMC’s call centre. “We are getting at least 3-4 complaints of borewell malfunction every alternate days and residents asking for tanker supply of water,” said an official with IMC’s Narmada project. He said that the major problem in areas, where there is no supply lines, and residents have to depend only on borewells or private tankers. “Private plumbers or mechanic are also not allowed to move due to ongoing lockdown, and this has further added to the woes of residents facing such issues,” he added. “Our borewell has gone defunct since last Monday and we are not able to draw ground water. We can’t find any plumber due to lockdown,” said Sandhya Yadav of Kanadia Road. IMC commissioner Asheesh Singh said that the issue has already been brought to his notice and they are in process of identifying plumbers or mechanic for citizens’ assistance. “We are identifying borewell repair and service agencies that are willing to work during lockdown. Once identified, curfew passes would be obtained and issued to these agencies through district administration,” he said. Officials added that the corporation has already roped in over 100 tankers including 82 of its own for supplying water in affected areas of city daily. “Tanker supply is provided on basis demands raised by residents or by public representatives,” they added. TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/indore/no-plumbers-to-fix-borewells-in-city-residents-grapple-with-water-woes/articleshow/75211331.cms||---
April 18, 2020||Lucknow||Lucknow: Paramedic among 7 new corona patients||LUCKNOW: The number of novel coronavirus cases in the state capital reached 114 on Friday with 7 more people, including an ICU paramedic, testing positive on Friday. Six patients, including three women, found positive on Friday are Sadar residents. The number of people found positive in Sadar is now 70, which accounts for over 60% of the total cases in Lucknow. It has also emerged as the one of the prime hotspots in the state. The paramedic who tested positive was working in the ICU wing of a private hospital in Daliganj. A 75-year-old patient was under treatment in this hospital from April 10-13 before he tested positive to Covid-19 on April 15. The hospital was sealed on April 15 and its 27 employees were sent to different quarantine facilities, while their families were asked to remain in home isolation. Test reports of 18 employees came on Friday in which the paramedic tested positive. Reports of nine employees is awaited while others tested negative. “Most of the fresh cases are asymptomatic and have been admitted to RR Institute on Sitapur Road,” said Lucknow chief medical officer Dr Narendra Agarwal. “The paramedic’s family lives in Ambedkarnagar while he lives on the hospital premises,” CMO added. “Persons who tested positive in Sadar were already in quarantine,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/paramedic-among-7-new-corona-patients/articleshow/75212200.cms||Vivek Singh Chauhan
April 18, 2020||Coimbatore||Two held for poisoning tigers at Pothamadai||COIMBATORE: Forest department officials on Thursday arrested two farm workers on charges of poisoning a tiger and a tigress which were found dead at Pothamadai in the Pollachi Forest Range on April 8. The officials said the workers took revenge on the death of a calf and poisoned the big cats. Search is on for two more farm workers. P Rasu, 36 and C Karuppusamy, 56, hailing from Sethumadai village near Pollachi, have been remanded in judicial custody. On April 8, a wild boar and a tiger and a tigress were found dead near Pothamadai beat of Pollachi range. The officials suspected that some people might have poisoned the three animals. “A special team was formed to probe the deaths of the two big cats and the wild boar. Rasu and Karuppasamy said that they had poached a wild boar and laced pesticide in the flesh and left them in the same place leading to the deaths of the big cats,” said Pollachi Forest Range officer A Kasilingam. The duo told the officials that one of their calves was also killed by a big cat in December 2019. “We have seized snares from the duo,” said Kasilingam. He said that samples taken from the two big cats and the wild boar were sent to laboratories for analysis. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/two-held-for-poisoning-tigers/articleshow/75212192.cms||---
April 18, 2020||Delhi||Delhi lags in trying times: 18,700 Covid-19 samples tested||NEW DELHI: Is testing being done adequately to track Covid-19 in Delhi? Till April 16, data shows, 18,784 people were tested in the capital, nearly half the number tested in Mumbai, another major city hit by the novel coronavirus. On April 16, Mumbai had tested 35,085 people for Covid-19. The growth in number of tests conducted in Delhi has been relatively lower in spite of as many as eight private labs being allowed to carry out Covid-19 testing in addition to the seven government-run labs. The lowest per day number of samples tested in Delhi in the past fortnight was 153 on April 3, highest on April 5 with 2,903 samples. Officials explained the big difference in the tests between these two dates was probably because of a large number of suspects being evacuated from the Tablighi Jamaat mosque in Nizamuddin. “The testing of their samples led to a sharp rise in positive cases,” conceded an official. On April 6 also, 1,867 samples were tested, mainly of the mosque evacuees and the people they had come in contact with. After that testing statistics decreased significantly. As per government data, Delhi tested 577, 291 and 636 samples, respectively on April 7, 8 and 9. This rose to 1,093 on April 10 and was between 648 then and 2,179 on April 16. On Friday, 2,625 people were tested for Covid-19 in Delhi. Public health specialists say that Delhi’s testing numbers are lower than warranted, it being one of the worst affected by the outbreak after Maharashtra. On Friday, Delhi had 1,707 positive cases and 42 people deaths. As many as 68 areas in the city have been declared as containment zones. Delhi government said on Friday that orders had been issued to test samples of the communities under surveillance, people inn quarantine and all contacts of Covid-19 patients and patients admitted in hospitals. Dr S K Sarin, director of Institute of Liver and Biliary Sciences, who is advising the state government on Covid-19 management, explained to TOI that a major hindrance was collecting the nasal swabs from patients and their contacts. “To collect the nasal swabs, a team of at least four people wearing PPEs observing all safety measures is required per person. Hence, 70-80 samples can be collected in a day,” Sarin said. Another problem he pointed out was of persons exposed to the infection not readily acknowledging it due to the stigma associated with Covid-19. Private labs conducting Covid-19 tests concede that people aren’t coming forward for testing. “The response hasn’t been as expected, but we hope the numbers go up in the coming days,” said a virologist. “I think people are hesitant to get tested fearing a positive result, in which case their houses will be marked. Even if they test negative, the neighbours might suspect them of infection.” He added that RT-PCR testing for Covid-19, which has been approved by ICMR, takes longer than rapid kit tests and requires specialised manpower. Another problem with the testing process is the pendency of results. On Friday, results of 2,674 samples — 2,143 in government labs and 531 in private labs — were awaited. Recently, Delhi government issued orders stating that in case the number of samples collected was higher than the combined testing capacity of government labs, the samples collected at Covid-19-designated Delhi government hospitals or quarantine centres should be sent to the designated private labs. The government said it would bear the cost of the tests conducted at private labs. Delhi government is also awaiting one lakh rapid test kits to enable large-scale screening in the hotspots. “Our numbers are low because we aren’t testing enough people. This is true for Delhi as well as whole of India,” argued an epidemiologist. “We do not know the extent of disease spread due to this serious lapse in Covid-19 management. Hopefully, things will improve once the rapid test kits become available for use.” One of the reasons for low Covid-19 testing n the initial days was because the state government was allowed to test samples of only those who had travelled overseas or had direct contact with a Covid-19-positive case. Later, the Indian Council for Medical Research relaxed the parameters to include persons with influenza-like symptoms and healthcare workers. Under the latest guidelines, anyone who a physician deems fit for testing based on his or her symptoms can be tested for the insidious coronavirus.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/delhi-lags-in-trying-times-18700-covid-19-samples-tested/articleshow/75212274.cms||Durgesh Nandan Jha
April 18, 2020||Pune||Schools set deadline for fee payment, upset parents||PUNE: State education minister Varsha Gaikwad said on Friday that all schools should follow the notification that stated there is no compulsion on payment of fees during the lockdown. In a video released over social media, Gaikwad stated that any school forcing parents to pay up the fee should be reported to the district education officer and necessary action will be taken. A few schools in the city have set immediate deadlines to pay up the fee for the new academic year. The decision has upset parents, who pointed out that the educational institutions are also charging transportation fee for March, April and May. Some schools in the city have even also increased the fee by 8-10%. The institutes said the transportation fee is always charged for the entire calender year to ensure that salaries of school staff is paid regularly. Radhika Agrawal, an aggrieved parent, said, “Schools must show some sensitivity towards parents in this situation where everybody is facing a financial burden. We were shocked to read the e-mail from the school to pay up the fee immediately. The email also stated that there will be no waiver and a late payment fee would be charged.” Nalini Samuel, principal of The Orbis School, explained, “The school has to take care of the salaries of teaching and non-teaching staff and the only income is the tuition fee. In that case, even if there is a lockdown, salaries need to be paid to the staff. So, we have no option but to ask parents to pay the fee.” Principal of Mansukhbhai Kothari National school, Varsha Kokil, said, “We have not made it compulsory to pay the fee. However, we are getting queries from parents about the payment schedule.” When contacted, commissioner of education Vishal Solanki said that the government has issued an advisory dated March 30, appealing schools not to make payment of fee mandatory during the lockdown period. “Schools should abide by the advisory and not burden parents. In case of transport issues, our education officers could speak to schools to find a solution.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/schools-set-deadline-for-fee-payment-upset-parents/articleshow/75212210.cms||Swati Shinde Gole
April 18, 2020||Kolkata||Kolkata: Lockdown violators find novel ways to flout rules||KOLKATA: People are coming up with various ways to flout the lockdown rules. From using police stickers, medical staff passes to travelling in ambulances, they have tried every trick in the book. On Thursday and Friday, some of these tricks came under the scanner of police who slapped the accused with stringent cases of cheating and impersonation. At Howrah, cops traced the lockdown violators using CCTV and drones. They sent notices to the houses of those whom they could not catch on the spot. Cops said that the biggest incident in the past 48 hours had been reported from Kasba. Basudeb Pramanik, a resident of Swinhoe Street, was arrested for using a fake police board to travel around the city. He was stopped at a naka check near Kasba police station and arrested. In another incident, four men were arrested from the south suburban border for travelling in an ambulance to reach Canning from Garden Reach. They claimed that one of them had been suffering from stomach infection. But a medical test revealed that they were faking the illness. They have been sent to a quarantine centre, after which they would be put under arrest. Earlier, six men had been caught at Patuli on their way to Bongaon. Lalbazar said they have introduced special night checking and asked every OC or additional OC to stay at police stations at night. “We have asked the police to use our app and find out whether the QR code on the e-pass is genuine. We have taken action against 370-odd people so far for not wearing masks. On an average, around 450 to 600 people are being arrested and 100-120 cars are being seized daily,” said an IPS officer. Chief minister Mamata Banerjee, on Friday, asked the police to engage club members and Durga Puja organizers in developing community reach. “They can report any issue in their areas to the police,” said Banerjee. Cops will seek their help to know how many people are conforming to the lockdown and wearing masks.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/lockdown-violators-find-novel-ways-to-flout-rules/articleshow/75211337.cms||Dwaipayan Ghosh
April 18, 2020||Indore||Five arrested for selling liquor during lockdown||Indore: In a joint operation with Pardeshipura and Aerodrome police, Crime branch officials on Friday conducted simultaneous raids in these areas and seized 344 boxes of illegal liquor worth Rs 45 lakh. The accused had stocked the liquor in four-wheelers and used to supply it to people on orders. Police had received a tip-off that a local liquor shop owner Mukesh Shivhare had been making liquor available to people in the area. The accused had reportedly stocked the liquor in ‘ahatas’ near their shops. Kamal Thakur, Rohit Chouhan, Ram Raj, Deepak Khandare, Deepu Thakur, and Shubham Sisodiya were arrested and booked under relevant sections of IPC and further investigations were initiated against them. Over 226 boxes were recovered from them. Police said that manager Rakesh Tiwari used to stock the liquor in ‘ahatas’. Similarly, police had received information about liquor shop owner Santosh Raghuwanshi stocking liquor in vehicles parked under a tinshed on an empty plot. He had also been taking help from his manager Surendra alias Kallan Raghuwanshi to sell liquor. The liquor was being sold at triple the rate. Police seized 99 boxes from here and another 19 boxes from one more vehicle worth Rs 4 lakh. Bechwal, Hemant, Shambhu, Prakash and Surendra were arrested and booked. ASP Rajesh Dandotiya said that a case was registered against the accused and further investigations were initiated. Meanwhile, SP Yusuf Qureshi said 21 people were booked under section 188 of the IPC whereas 41 preventive actions were taken. He said eight two-wheelers and two four wheelers were seized by police. SP West Mahesh Chandra Jain said over 150 cases under section 188 were registered. TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/indore/five-arrested-for-selling-liquor-during-lockdown/articleshow/75211343.cms||---
April 18, 2020||Jaipur||In crisis, BJP MP dons doctor’s robe||JAIPUR: BJP Rajya Sabha member Dr Kirorilal Meena has donned the mantle of a medical doctor and is attending to patients at a primary health centre in Khorara Dhaula Kuan village near Mahuwa in Dausa district every day. In a tweet, he said in this hour of crisis, he could not sit back as an onlooker. Meena is a trained doctor from SP Medical College Bikaner before he took the political plunge under former chief minister and BJP leader Bhairon Singh Shekhawat’s guidance. Meena said he took on the job again since people with mild problems have no place to go as the whole state and country was now focusing on coronavirus. He said every day he sits at the PHC for three hours and attends to around 50 patients. Meena, who is addressed by his followers as doctor saab, said though he switched to politics, medical profession is his first love.  He said Prime Minister Narendra Modi and chief minister Ashok Gehlot had solicited the services of retired doctors. “So, I am volunteering my service to help people at this juncture,” he said. Meena took VRS from service while he was posted at a dispensary in Banswara in 1982 and joined the BJP. He held various posts including the minister for civil supplies and food in Rajasthan.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/in-crisis-bjp-mp-dons-docs-robe/articleshow/75213018.cms||---
April 18, 2020||Mangaluru||Mangaluru: Missing man’s body found||MANGALURU: The body of a 35-year-old man from Konaje, who had gone missing after abandoning his car on the Nethravathi bridge, was found near Ullal, on Friday morning. According to police, Vikram Gatty, a resident of Konaje, allegedly committed suicide by jumping from the bridge, on Wednesday night. Gatty had gone missing after parking his car on the bridge. On Wednesday night, he had left home and told people at home that he will return after charging his car battery, but did not do so. On Thursday morning, his car was found on the Nethravathi Bridge. Wash stored for hooch preparation destroyed Excise department officials seized and destroyed 400l of wash stored for brewing illicit liquor near the banks of the Nethravathi River in Inoli village, on Friday. The raid was conducted under the leadership of excise department deputy commissioner Shailaja Kote. The authorities found 400 litres of wash and destroyed the same. A case has been registered.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mangaluru/missing-mans-body-found/articleshow/75206818.cms||---
April 18, 2020||Vadodara||In Anand, 3 discharged, 22 still under treatment||Vadodara/ Anand: Three patients from Anand district including two from Hadgud village neighbouring milk city and one from Navakhal village of Anklav taluka were discharged from Anand’s general hospital on Friday. These included two male and one female who were among the first Covid-19 positive patients of Anand ever since the pandemic surfaced. As Mehboodali Saiyed, 46, Raeeskhan Pathan, 48 and Salmaben Chauhan, 26, came out of the general hospital their recovery was celebrated by the entire medical team that was attending to them at the hospital in presence of Anand district collector R G Gohil and district superintendent of police Ajit Rajian, who specially remained present to cheer up the patients and the medical team. While Saiyed works as peon in the irrigation department of Anand Nagarpalika, Pathan is a garage mechanic. Chauhan is a housewife. “All the three patients were asymptomatic and had fast recovery,” said Dr Amar Pandya, civil surgeon of Anand general hospital, adding that all the three have been asked to follow 14 days quarantine and take all preventive measures including social distancing. Earlier in the day, the district had recorded two new cases including a 35-year-old male from Khambhat and a 45-year-old man from Umreth who tested positive taking the total number of COVID-19 positive cases in Anand district to 25. Now, 22 patients are currently under treatment in Anand.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/in-anand-3-discharged-22-still-under-treatment/articleshow/75209351.cms||---
April 18, 2020||Allahabad||Plumbers & electricians locked indoors, repairs in homes put off||Prayagraj: Earlier this week, residents of Rajapur’s Juhi Colony were left high and dry after a snag hit the water pipelines, cutting off supply to the locality for hours. With shops shut because of the lockdown, most residents couldn’t just call a plumber to get the pipes fixed. It was only in the evening that the water supply was restored after municipal authorities repaired the damaged pipelines. The problem faced by over 60 homes in Juhi Colony was the same as the one several others are reeling under in Prayagraj ever since the lockdown was enforced to arrest the spread of novel coronavirus. With most plumbers and electricians staying home because of the lockdown, simple jobs like installation of desert coolers, servicing of air conditioners and fixing leaking water pipes have been put on hold. “Two days back, the main power circuit of my house developed a snag and the electricity supply snapped. Even the inverter was not working. I finally got hold of an electrician after four hours going from locality to locality. He only agreed to come to our house after I assured him that I would drop him back,” said Gopal Srivastava, a resident of Rajruppur area. With temperature soaring, residents’ problems are only increasing. Many claimed that they are no technicians to set up air conditioners. Those wanting to buy new coolers and ACs are in a limbo as shops selling consumer durables are shut. The district administration has distributed a list of plumbers and electricians with their contact details who will be ready to come to residents’ homes in case of a problem. “The list contains names of professionals registered with District Urban Development Agency (DUDA), those in contact with civil defence and police stations,” said additional district magistrate (city) AK Kanojia. The administration has also circulated a list of ‘supply mitra’, which are grocery stores ready to deliver essential commodities at customers’ doorsteps. Some stores in the city which earlier did not offer home delivery have started offering the service during the lockdown. Most of them have hired a small group of riders to offer the service.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/allahabad/plumbers-electricians-locked-indoors-repairs-in-homes-put-off/articleshow/75210720.cms||---
April 18, 2020||Jaipur||17-year-old Kota student tests positive||Kota: A 17-year-old NEET aspirant from Bharatpur who was studying in Kota and staying at a hostel in Lanmark City area under Kunhari police station tested positive for Covid-19 on Thursday. He had returned to his home district Bharatpur three days ago. Additional district magistrate, Bharatpur, on Thursday wrote a letter to Kota district magistrate informing about the positive test report of the coaching student, following which intensive sanitisation and screening was carried out in the hostel as well as in Landmark City area. Nearly 35,000 students from across the country preparing for medical and engineering entrance exams in various institutes of the city are stuck in hostels and PG rooms following the enforcement of lockdown.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/17-year-old-kota-student-tests-positive/articleshow/75213019.cms||---
April 18, 2020||Jaipur||Fearing virus infection, man ends life||Jaipur: A 34-year-old man committed suicide in Churu on Thursday night apparently due to fear of being infected by coronavirus. The deceased, identified as Mukesh Swami, worked as a watchman and caretaker of a house whose owners stay out of town. Kotwali Churu SHO Subhash Chandra said, “Mukesh’s body was found hanging from the hook of the fan in the kitchen. We also found a suicide note in his pocket which said he was taking his life willingly as he feared that he was coronavirus positive.” According to officials, Mukesh had been staying alone for the past two years in Churu while his family stayed in the village. “We do not know why he thought he contracted the virus. Perhaps he went to the hospital recently and thought that he was coronavirus positive because of which he lost his mental balance,” added the official. Taking precautionary measures, the deceased’s body has been kept in the mortuary and samples taken to test for Covid-19. Chandra said, “We do not know if Mukesh was really positive. But no chances can be taken at this point. Doctors have taken his samples for testing.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/fearing-virus-infection-man-ends-life/articleshow/75213015.cms||---
April 18, 2020||Jaipur||Kota BJP MLA booked for provocative video speech||Kota: BJP MLA from Ramganjmandi in Kota Madan Dilawar was on Friday booked for a provocative video speech against a particular community and creating confusion on Covid-19 pandemic. “Dilawar was on Friday booked under sections 501, 501(B,C), 502, 505, 188 of IPC and under sections of Disaster Management and Epidemic Act for ‘provocative speech against particular community’ and creating confusion on Covid-19 pandemic among the people,” said IPS, DSP Amrita Duhan. The comments made by the MLA in the video speech are likely to lead to a situation of anarchy, communal enmity, violence and confusion in the society, she said. A resident on Friday reached Mahavir Nagar police station and gave a written complaint over a video uploaded on social media a few days ago. In the video, MLA Madan Dilawar blames chief minister Ashok Gehlot for allowing positive cases in Jaipur to go for home quarantine rather than isolating them in hospitals or quarantine centres. On request of two MLAs from Jaipur, namely, Amin Kagzi and Ameen Khan, the chief minister allowed the infected cases from a particular community to go for home quarantine, Dilawar alleged in the video. “The two MLAs called the infected persons from their community ‘the Jamati people’ who would not go to quarantine centres and would stay in home quarantine. The CM allowed it,” Dilawar alleged.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/kota-bjp-mla-booked-for-provocative-video-speech/articleshow/75213020.cms||---
April 18, 2020||Ahmedabad||Ahmedabad: Civic body to use pooled testing in Covid-19 free areas||AHMEDABAD: To ready itself for challenges that will emerge once the lockdown is lifted, the Ahmedabad Municipal Corporation has decided to conduct pooled testing to scan for Covid-19 presence in areas from where no cases have been reported. Municipal commissioner Vijay Nehra, who announced the decision said samples from 20 pools will be taken from each such Covid-free zone. Nehra said AMC is trying to isolate as many cases as possible before May 3, when the lockdown ends, and a spike in spread of infection can follow. “Once people start moving freely in the city for their work, the rate of spread of infection will again see a spike. Hence at this moment, we want to identify all cases before May 3, in order to reduce the challenges ahead.” Nehra said that in pooled testing, which was a strategy followed in Germany, 100 people will be selected at random from an area and broken into 20 groups of five persons each. Then again, samples will be taken at random of any one from a 5-member group and thus 20 samples will be sent for testing a 100-member larger pool. “If the sample from the selected individual of a 5-member group turns out negative, we will assume all five members of the group are negative. If the sample is positive, then the rest four members of the concerned group will be tested individually,” Nehra said. Nehra said that new findings on the pandemic are arriving daily. “Much information received earlier is being proved wrong. In January, the World Health Organization had said that the virus will not have human-to-human transfer, but this was proved wrong. Again, it was said that the virus was not airborne, but later experts cleared that the micro-droplets can remain present in air for hours. There was also confusion over wearing masks in the initial phase.” The municipal commissioner once again appealed to the people of the Walled City to stay indoors. “Women are permitted to get out to get vegetables and milk in areas under curfew, but large numbers of women are overcrowding the streets and not maintaining social distancing. Life is more precious than getting fresh vegetables daily,” said Nehra. He said that the AMC was not getting adequate support from the Walled City area and hence he called upon the religious leaders, politicians from the area and socially influential people to appeal to the people to stay indoors and not get out of the house without any reason. He said that in order to maintain law and order police is being deployed and they too are getting infected. “If people observe restraint then police will not be required and hence they too can be saved from infection,” he said. In all 23,818 people from Walled City were screened at the 13 check-posts and from them 12 persons showing symptoms were referred to AMC health teams.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/civic-body-to-use-pooled-testing-in-covid-free-areas/articleshow/75211445.cms||---
April 18, 2020||Goa||Fisheries department steps in to ease prices, begins supply in Goa||PANAJI: In an attempt to stabilise rates and intensify competition, the fisheries department has begun increasing the supply of fish for consumers during the past few days. The department has been purchasing fish directly from trawler owners, which is then passed on to registered self help groups (SHG) to be supplied to markets. “Eight truckloads of fish are supplied every day. The department is also negotiating with suppliers from Maharashtra for procuring prawns,” said fisheries secretary P S Reddy. The supplier has agreed to supply a truckload of prawns, and the price is being negotiated, he said. Goa normally receives two truckloads of prawns every day from Maharashtra, Reddy said. The price of prawns has doubled, while the rates of other fish varieties have also shot up even though adequate stocks are available in the state. The government had permitted fishing activities to resume a few days ago. Normally, the retail price of prawns ranges between Rs 400-600 kg subject to quality, but now it has gone up to Rs 1,000 per kg. “We have enough stock of fish. All cold storage facilities are full,” he said. Alhough the department has no control over pricing of fish, their attempt is to infuse more supply so that there is enough competition to keep the rates stable. With the hospitality industry closed due to travel restrictions, availability of fish for local consumption is expected to increase and alter the price dynamics. “We haven’t seen prices dropping significantly,” said a consumer. With fishing activities gaining momentum, the department has intensified Covid-19 awareness among labourers employed on jetties and trawlers. On Friday, an awareness session was held among traditional fishermen in Pernem taluka, Nerul, and Cutbona jetty, insisting that workers must follow social distancing norms.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/fisheries-dept-steps-in-to-ease-prices-begins-supply/articleshow/75212235.cms||---
April 18, 2020||Kanpur||IIT-K, SGPGI develop working prototype of respirator system||Kanpur: Indian Institute of Technology Kanpur (IIT-K) and Sanjay Gandhi Post Graduate Institute of Medical Sciences (SGPGI) have collaboratively developed a working prototype of a Positive Pressure Respirator System (PPRS) to address the problem of acute global scarcity of N95 respirators, a critical component of Personal Protection Equipment (PPE) kits. The team led by Professor Nachiketa Tiwari (IIT-Kanpur), and Professor Devendra Gupta, in-charge, Covid-19 ICU (SGPGI) developed this prototype. Prof Tiwari said that the PPRS is a much safer alternative to the N95 respirator. He said that the existing N95 respirator do not protect the user if there is an imperfect seal between the mask and the face, as there is negative pressure inside the mask. “In contrast, the PPRS provides uncontaminated air by using positive pressure. Thus, contaminated air from the room cannot enter the PPRS even in presence of any leakage”, Prof Tiwari added. “As compared to the PPRS, N95 respirator is only 95% efficient, thus posing risk of infection for health professionals working in isolation wards with large number of Covid-19 infected patients for longer durations. The PPRS eliminates this risk as well,” he added. The PPRS is essentially made up of a comfortable and leak-proof transparent enclosure for mouth and nose, which receives positive pressure air from a portable, light, and wearable air-bottle, as well as a trolley-mounted large cylinder. The device can deliver uncontaminated air for over six hours. It uses locally produced reliable one-way valves to avoid the inflow of contaminated air. The new PPRS is simple, rugged, and incorporates multiple design features to protect the user from contamination. It has a universal - one-size-fits-all design and is made by easily available local materials for fabrication. “Thus, such PPRS devices can be produced in very large numbers in a very short time frame across the country. The design team has also developed a product-process video, which can be viewed to manufacture the device locally”, Prof Tiwari said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kanpur/iit-k-sgpgi-develop-working-prototype-of-respirator-system/articleshow/75210871.cms||---
April 18, 2020||Rajkot||Covid positive man recovers, discharged||RAJKOT: A Covid-19 positive person has recovered and was discharged from a private hospital in Rajkot on Friday evening. According to the health department of Rajkot Municipal Coroporation, 39-year-old Mehul Kotecha was discharged after the results of his last two tests came negative. He was admitted to the hospital on March 26 and he tested positive the same day.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/covid-positive-man-recovers-discharged/articleshow/75209898.cms||---
April 18, 2020||Pune||PCMC forms tech war room to combat Covid-19||PIMPRI CHINCHWAD: Officials in the PCMC building’s fourth-floor office have been keeping a close watch on the eight 55-inch TV screens presenting a real-time images of the areas where Covid-19 cases have been reported. With GIS overlapping on Google Maps, the Pimpri Chinchwad Municipal Corporation (PCMC) is able to keep track of those areas that are now under containment. The place where the patient is found is mapped with a red flag, covering each household in the vicinity. The patient’s activity levels are ascertained to know the possibility of him/her having spread the infection. “Some patients are active. For instance, if they are walkers, we trace back their routine to know who could have met them on a regular-basis. In some cases, patients stay home so we trace their contacts differently,” PCMC commissioner Shravan Hardikar said. An automated dashboard in the technology war room gives a real-time update of the positive cases — those that need attention and those who are in active (14 days) and passive (28 days) home quarantine. Also, a feed of 85 locations (in inset screens) is monitored continuously to see the effectiveness of the lockdown. “If there is a crowd at any of the places, an alarm goes off for the police. This is the reason why we were able to enforce the restrictions on vegetable sales effectively for three days,” Hardikar said. He said it had helped the rapid response team — comprising senior officers and doctors — take important decisions without delays. A project for the Smart City control room was already in the works and the war room was an improvisation. “When the first few cases trickled in, the commissioner asked us if we could use the Smart City software to create a war room. He gave his inputs on what was required and our team built it up,” Saily Lad, director, Krystal Integrated Services Pvt. Ltd said. One of the key elements was to get all the cameras connected and install more cameras at important locations. Then, the occupied and vacant hospital beds are also monitored at real time across the 10 participating hospitals. “If during a survey, any symptomatic or high-risk patient is found, the field team makes those changes on their hand-held device and the same is reflected here, following which a serious of actions are taken according to protocols,” the civic chief said. Hardikar said the mobile application ‘PCMC Smart Sarathi’ has been a gamechanger. It aims at giving people micro-level information like how many dispensaries in their vicinity are fever clinics or can check on people in the first instance. “The overall idea is to monitor things aggressively and keep the count really low,” Lad said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/pcmc-forms-tech-war-room-to-combat-covid-19/articleshow/75212223.cms||Satyanarayan Iyer
April 18, 2020||Kolkata||KMC, cops to hit streets, fight coronavirus together||KOLKATA: Top civic, Nabanna and police officers drew up a comprehensive containment plan on Friday and earmarked parts of at least 40 wards in Kolkata, where police would have the powers to stop people from venturing out on roads without any valid reason. However, both the KMC and Kolkata Police will keep an eye out for the elderly and the ailing in the restricted zones and extend all help. Several pockets of north, central and south Kolkata, which have thrown up multiple Covid-19 cases, were cordoned off on Friday itself and police were deployed to restrict non-essential movements. Kolkata Armed Police personnel, including those from the Rapid Action Force (RAF), are likely to hit the streets from Saturday to enforce stricter vigil as civic authorities and health officials step up their door-to-door fever surveillance, contact tracing and sanitization drive to contain the spread of novel coronavirus. “The tendency to flout lockdown norms among a section of people in some wards has necessitated the strict watch. From Saturday, we have sought strict police action against those who will violate the rules. If necessary, RAF will be deployed in troubled areas,” said a senior civic official on Friday, when mayor Firhad Hakim held marathon meetings with the state, civic and police brass. According to a KMC official, these zones earmarked as “sensitive”, include pockets in Dum Dum, Cossipore-Belgachhia, Narkeldanga, Jorasanko, Chitpore, Burrabazar, College Street-Bowbazar, Beliaghata, Entally, Elliot Road, Collins Lane and Tiljala-Topsia in north-central Kolkata, and Bhowanipore, Kalighat, Gariahat-Ballygunge, Kidderpore-Metiabruz and Garden Reach in south. Similar measures had been taken in some places off EM Bypass, an officer said. According to the plan drawn up by the civic and police brass, all entry points to the containment zones will be sealed. “Containment measures have also been imposed on Belgachhia, Narkeldanga, Muktarambabu Street, Burrabazar, Chetla, Mudiali and Padmapukur, where Covid-19 cases were reported. KMC and health department are tracing primary and secondary contacts,” a senior police officer said. “Ten houses on the two sides of patients’ residences are being closed. Police will arrange for food for the families in those places.” At markets close to containment zones, shops will remain open for three hours a day and not more than five people will be allowed to stand in a queue. at a time. At the KMC-run large markets, police will man the entry points and restrict crowding inside and outside shops. Police pointed out that help from battalions might be sought for the exercise. If someone has an emergency, the OC, after informing his seniors, may allow him/her to step out and also make the necessary arrangements. All cops and KMC workers in the zones will wear PPEs. They will carry out thermal screening of everyone entering or leaving the zones. “No loitering will be allowed. No one can step out without a mask,” said a cop.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/kmc-cops-to-hit-streets-fight-virus-together/articleshow/75211367.cms||Saikat Ray
April 18, 2020||Salem||In Dharmapuri, farmers are letting tomatoes rot||DHARMAPURI: Farmers in Dharmapuri district are a worried lot as they have not harvested tomatoes for the last two weeks because of a lull in demand and for economic reasons. As a result, several tonnes of tomatoes are rotting away unplucked. The situation of tomato farmers is pathetic especially in Nallampalli and its surrounding villages including Parigam, Thoppur, Dokkupothanahalli, Samisettipatty, Yelagiri and Manyathaalli in the district. Farmers in these village have cultivated tomatoes in 4,000 acre. The average tomato crop yield per acre in India is about 10 tonnes. From these villages, tomatoes are sold in several nearby cities in the state. “We sell our tomatoes to traders in Salem, Coimbatore and Trichy,” said, M Rajendran, a farmers from Nallampalli. But the lockdown has spoilt all business prospects of these farmers. Most of them have produced a bumper yield this season, but are struggling to find labourers to pluck tomatoes from the plants. “Even if we manage to get labourers from nearby villages, they are demanding a huge fee than what they get in normal times,” said T Manoharan, a farmer from Thoppur. The labourers are generally paid Rs 300 a day to harvest tomatoes. “They are demanding Rs 600 citing lockdown,” a farmer said. Labour availability is not the only issue that farmers are forced to address. Several farmers said tomotoes are not fetching even the input costs of cultivation in wholesale markets. “About 30 kg of tomato basket is being sold for Rs 600 in the wholesale market. But the traders are paying Rs 100 to the farmers for the same quantity,” a farmer said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/salem/in-dharmapuri-farmers-are-letting-tomatoes-rot/articleshow/75212237.cms||---
April 18, 2020||Salem||Seven-year-old trudges 170 km along with a group of 10 to reach home to Kallakurichi||SALEM: A seven-year-old boy walked barefoot for 170km in two days along with his parents and eight more construction workers from Coimbatore and reached Salem on Thursday evening on their way home to Kallakurichi. K Ayyasamy, 32, a resident of Kallakurichi, his wife and son A Sabarinathan, 7, went to Coimbatore on February 25 to work in a construction site. Sabarinath is studying in Class 2 in a government school in Kallakurichi. As there was no one to take care of Sabarinath, the couple took him along with them to Coimbatore. After Prime Minister Narendra Modi announced nationwide lockdown on March 24, the couple became jobless. However, they managed to make ends meet. But when the lockdown was extended till May 3, the couple decided to get back to their home in Kallakurichi. As there was no transport available, the couple along with eight other co-workers decided to reach home by walk. On Wednesday morning, the couple, their son and eight other workers set out on foot from Coimbatore. When they reached Kondalampatty Roundana in the city on Coimbatore-Salem national highway around 5.30pm on Thursday after walking for nearly 170km, they were intercepted by police who were on vehicle checking duty. Talking to TOI, assistance commissioner (traffic) G Sathyamoorthy said, “I saw these 10 people with a small boy walking on the national highway.” When inquired, they said they were heading to Kallakurichi from Coimbatore. The assistant commissioner immediately provided food for them. Ayyasamy said police at Perundurai in Erode district gave them Rs 500 for food expenses but they were not able to arrange a vehicle for them. However, the Salem city police arranged a goods truck to carry the workers to Kallakurichi. The workers covered the rest of the distance (more than 100km) by truck and reached home.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/salem/seven-yr-old-trudges-170km-along-with-a-group-of-10-to-reach-home/articleshow/75212213.cms||---
April 18, 2020||Jaipur||Migrants wander to BSF post: Admin takes action||Jaisalmer: After a story appeared in Times of India on Friday about more than 50 labourers of Madhya Pradesh origin reaching BSF border outpost hungry and thirsty when they were abondoned by the farm owner, the field owner under pressure from district administration paid wages to the labourers, gave them food and left them at the shelter house at Rampura school under Mohangarh police station area. Later, the district administration got the labourers screened. Nonetheless, the labourers continue to behave in an unruly way. The police are taking strict measures to keep them at one place. Mohangarh police during the blockading seized two vehicles that had come to pick up the labourers who have come from Madhya Pradesh. These vehicles violated the lockdown and police have arrested the driver and cleaner of these vehicles. In another incident, police in Mohangarh area seized a truck and caught 70 labourers who were being taken to Sriganganagar. SP Kiran Kang said that police have been asked to blockade and check the vehicles in the entire district. “Late on Thursday night, Mohangarh police team stopped two vehicles driven by Bablu (28) and Sanjay Choudhary, residents of Madhya Pradesh. They had come to pick up labourers from Madhya Pradesh. Their papers were checked but they didn’t have letter of permission. Both the vehicles were seized under Section 207 of MV Act and both drivers were arrested under Section 151 of CrPC. Similarly, at Dudi Fanta under Mohangarh police station area a truck was found carrying 70 labourers. Truck driver Jasvinder Singh and cleaner Veekal Ram were arrested under sections 188, 269, 270 and 151.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/migrants-wander-to-bsf-post-admin-takes-action/articleshow/75213023.cms||---
April 18, 2020||Kanpur||Overseas Jamaatis to be quarantined for another 14 days||Kanpur: District administration has taken a decision that even after completing their quarantine term, the overseas Tablighi Jamaatis will have to undergo another term. This decision was taken on Thursday at a meeting of district administration officials, police and health authorities. Several overseas Tablighi Jamaat members had come to India to attend the Jamaat congregation in Nizamuddin Markaz in New Delhi. Eight members of the jamaat had to Kanpur while others went to other parts of the country. Among eight overseas Jamaatis, four were Afghani nationals, three Iranis and one of Britain. After getting all of them quarantined on March 31, the police had registered cases against them under the Epidemic Act and the Foreigners Act. Police had also seized their visas and cancelled their passports. The most serious allegation against them was that they had visited India on a tourist visa but they were propagating their religion. Their first sample test revealed that the two Afghanis were Covid-19 positive but the report of their second sample received on Wednesday stated that two Afghanistanis, three Iranis and one UK national tested negative. It may be recalled that Bahraich district administration had sent 17 overseas Jamaatis to jail after they completed the quarantine period. It has to be seen what action the Kanpur district administration is going to take about the overseas Tablighi Jamaat members. SSP/DIG Anand Deo said, “It has been decided to keep them under quarantine for more term. After completion of this term, future course of action would be decided, he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kanpur/overseas-jamaatis-to-be-quarantined-for-another-14-days/articleshow/75210913.cms||---
April 18, 2020||Coimbatore||Coimbatore: Leopard found dead in reserve forest||COIMBATORE: A two-year-old male leopard was found dead in Thadagam reserve forest in Coimbatore range on Thursday night. Postmortem revealed that the leopard died after suffering several wounds, probably during a fight with another leopard. Forest department field staff from Thadagam section found the carcass of the leopard near Anuvavi Subramaniya Swamy Temple. On being informed, district forest officer (DFO) D Venkatesh reached the spot and examined the carcass. As per the National Tiger Conservation Authority (NCTA) guidelines, the postmortem was carried out on Friday morning by veterinary doctors Dr Prabhakar and Dr Sugumar in the presence of representatives of two NGOs, the DFO and the assistant conservator of forests. Later, the carcass was burnt inside the reserve forest.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/leopard-found-dead-in-reserve-forest/articleshow/75212254.cms||---
April 18, 2020||Kolkata||Two cancer hospitals in Kolkata on Covid-19 alert||KOLKATA: A cancer patient with Covid-19 symptoms died at a premier cancer hospital in New Town on Thursday while another with similar symptoms at another cancer hospital in Thakurpukur had to be shifted to MR Bangur Hospital on Friday. It prompted both hospitals — Saroj Gupta Cancer & Research Institute (SGC&RI) at Thakurpukur and Tata Medical Centre — to adopt precautionary measures. While SGC&RI sent 10 hospital staffers, who had come in contact with the patient, on home quarantine, Tata Medical Centre said it will follow prescribed norms. “The patient was being treated in the isolation ward where there are four more suspected cases. But the rest of the patients have tested negative and they have been shifted to normal wards. Though all healthcare providers in the isolation wards worked with PPE, we have asked 10 of them to be on home quarantine for now to rule out any risk,” said Arnab Gupta, medical director at SGC&RI. A Tata spokesperson said the death has been reported to the health ministry. “We are following the prescribed protocol and necessary measures will be taken,’ he said. A 50-year-old man from Hatibagan Road died at Tata Medical Centre on Thursday night. He was suffering from blood cancer and was admitted on April 8, according to his family. Prior to that, he was treated at a local nursing home where his cancer was detected a few weeks ago. The family was asked to take the patient to the New Town hospital. “He was doing fine with multiple blood transfusions. But since Wednesday, his condition started deteriorating. Around 11.30pm on Thursday, we got a call saying the patient has expired,” a relative told TOI. The deceased used to work as a mechanic at a private company at Moulali that supplies power generators. Family members said he had stopped going to his workplace after the lockdown. Meanwhile, a 75-year-old lung cancer patient from Murshidabad who was under treatment at SGC&RI at Thakurpukur had to be shifted to MR Bangur — a designted Covid hospital. Ten healthcare workers have been sent on home quarantine after the incident. According to sources, the patient had arrived at the Thakurpukur facility on April 14 and had symptoms like shortness of breath. Hospital officials said the patient was admitted in the isolation ward because he was a high-suspect case and his swab samples were sent for tests the next day.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/two-cancer-hospitals-in-city-on-covid-19-alert/articleshow/75211365.cms||Sumati Yengkhom
April 18, 2020||Kanpur||5 more test +ve, Covid-19 tally in city now 28||Kanpur: Five more people, including a woman, have tested positive for Covid-19 in the city in the last 24 hours, taking the total number of confirmed cases to 28. According to chief medical officer Dr Ashok Shukla, five more positive cases were reported in the city since late Thursday evening. "While four men, aged 19, 23, 39 and 40, all residents of Quli Bazar area, tested positive on Thursday evening, a 50-year-old woman from Colonelganj locality tested positive on Friday morning. All the five samples were tested at GSVM medical college. The administration is trying to trace people who had come in contact with Covid-19 people, All 28 positive patients in the city have been quarantined and are undergoing treatment at the Covid-19 hospital. The CMO said the woman, who has tested positive, is a relative of the readymade garment trader, who had died on Monday evening. The second report of two women, relative of the deceased trader, again tested positive, he added. A youth from Auraiyya was also declared infected after being declared a corona positive case. Among 28 infected persons, one person returned to his home after successful treatment while one died. The remaining 26 persons are being treated at the Covid-19 hospital, he said. Meanwhile, according to the health bulletin released by the district authorities, as many as 632 suspected persons who had come from other districts have been quarantined. Around 5731 quarantined persons have recḤovered in the last 24 hours. So far, 6769 people have recovered while 698 people are in isolation and being treated. Several voluntary organizations have donated money in the prime minister and chief minister fund. District magistrate Brahmadeo Ram Tiwari has ordered that no shop would be opened in hotspot and red zone areas. He said strict action would be taken if any shop was found open in these areas. Kanpur Municipal Corporation continued its sensitization work in red zone and hotspot areas and other parts of the city.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kanpur/5-more-test-ve-covid-19-tally-in-city-now-28/articleshow/75210895.cms||---
April 18, 2020||Lucknow||Elderly patient at SGPGI critical||Lucknow: The condition of 75-year-old patient from Sadar, who was tested positive for novel coronavirus infection on Wednesday, is critical. He is on oxygen support at Sanjay Gandhi Post-Graduate Institute of Medical Sciences (SGPGIMS). Eight other members of the family of 18, including the patient’s two sons and grandchildren, have also been tested positive and quarantined in a private medical college in Sarojininagar. It is the first family in the city to have nine positive cases. Director SGPGIMS RK Dhiman said, “The elderly patient had severe breathing problem and was put on oxygen support. His condition has improved in last 24 hours and breathing problem has also eased a bit.” The man was under treatment at a Daliganj hospital from April 10-13 for respiratory problems. After his son was tested positive on April 14, he was shifted to Lokbandhu Hospital and his swab samples were sent for testing on April 14. “After his report on April 15 confirmed coronavirus infection, the elderly patient was shifted to Era’s Medical College for special care but his condition kept deteriorating as he also had liver problem. He was referred to SGPGIMS on Thursday for critical care,” CMO Dr Narendra Agarwal said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/elderly-patient-at-sgpgi-critical/articleshow/75212256.cms||---
April 18, 2020||Goa||200 hotels identified to be used as quarantine facility in Goa||PANAJI: The state government has identified 200 hotels totalling 20,000 rooms to be used as quarantine facility for Covid-19 patients. The list of properties has been given to the district collectors, who after finalisation will issue orders for requisition. Tourism secretary J Ashok Kumar said that 200 hotels have been shortlisted to keep quarantine facility ready for seafarers.  Some properties will be managed by the state, while others will be earmarked as paid facilities. “Those who want more amenities can opt for paid quarantine,” he said. Amid growing tension over the seafarers’ issue, on Wednesday, chief minister Pramod Sawant had said that seafarers would be evacuated in phases. However, the decision would be made within three days by the ministry of home affairs, he had said. An attempt by wives of 11 seafarers, two days ago, to sit on hunger strike outside the chief minister’s residence was foiled after they were detained by police for violating Section 144 of CrPC that has been in force since last month. The Section bars gathering of five or more persons. A section of seafarers has accused the government of not doing enough to bring home stranded seafarers even as some are in dire state. Some seafarers have even taken to social media during last few days urging the government to help them. Health minister Vishwajit Rane had said that his ministry will require a 21-day notice to keep the facilities ready when the seafarers arrive in Goa. The seafarers will have to be brought in batches and quarantined, he had said. An exact figure of stranded seafarers is not available yet, but it is estimated that it could be well over 7,000. A senior official said all seafarers will require to be quarantined, either 14 or 28 days depending on which country they came from and all symptomatic seamen be tested for Covid-19.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/200-hotels-identified-to-be-used-as-quarantine-facility/articleshow/75212249.cms||Bindiya Chari
April 18, 2020||Pune||Two cooks help Pune fight coronavirus, one meal at a time||PUNE: Whether it is the kitchen at the Inspection Bungalow serving food to resident doctors of Sassoon General Hospital or the centralized kitchen at College of Engineering Pune serving three meals a day to around 550 homeless people in the city, the staff at these kitchens are working for over 10 hours a day to make sure people do not go hungry during the lockdown. While the kitchen at the bungalow is run by the government-appointed cook Anthoni Dominic Rofel, the one at College of Engineering Pune is run by caterer Ambalal Mali, who hails from Rajasthan. 41-year-old Mali wakes up every morning at 4am at his Bibvewadi house and reaches the Dalit Indian Chamber of Commerce and Industry-run kitchen at CoEP an hour later. “One group of workers gets busy preparing the breakfast, which includes sabudana khichdi, pohe or Upeet, the other group is busy chopping, grating and grinding vegetables for the afternoon meal. By 6.30am, the breakfast is ready to be taken to various shelter homes,” said Ambalal, who would otherwise have been catering at weddings in the city. For Anthoni Rofel (55), the day starts at 6am and ends at 10.30pm. “We serve 40 resident doctors of Sassoon Hospital, who are posted at the Covid-19 ward and hygiene is the topmost priority here. We wipe tables and chairs, where the doctors sit, multiple times. We have a buffet system so we do not directly come in contact with the doctors,” Rofel said. While Rofel serves fewer number of people than Mali, since the doctors walk in at different times, the staff stays on till the kitchen closes at 10.30pm. “I have four daughters at home and they are worried about my health. I tell them that it is the job for which the government appointed me and I cannot back out of it in the time of need,” Rofel said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/two-cooks-help-the-city-fight-coronavirus-one-meal-at-a-time/articleshow/75212251.cms||Ardhra Nair
April 18, 2020||Aurangabad||Only essential service vehicles can enter district||Aurangabad: With Aurangabad imposing stricter lockdown, scores of vehicles reaching the district borders with no emergency reason or legally valid reason are being denied entry. The administration has set up check posts at 23 entry and exit points in the district to keep a track of the same. The Aurangabad rural police are also maintaining an independent record of vehicles that are either entering the district or are using roadways passing through Aurangabad to reach other cities, districts or states. Aurangabad rural superintendent of police Mokshada Patil told TOI, “Entry is being granted to commuters only if they are carrying valid passes justifying their entry in the district for emergency situation or essential services while the others are being asked to return.” Citing the data available with her office, Patil said that the highest number of people reaching Aurangabad borders are from Marathwada region, followed by western Maharashtra, Ahmednagar district and Vidarbha. Only essential services and medical emergency vehicles are being allowed entry into the district. Considering that those who enter Aurangabad on valid passes mentioning medical emergency have added to city’s surge in Covid-19 patients, the district collector has ordered for scaling up restrictions and screening at all the entry and exit points of the district. The authorities have also started cross verifying if a person carrying pass has already been screened at the city/district from where he started his journey. Those not being screened are not allowed entry in the district.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/only-essential-service-vehicles-can-enter-district/articleshow/75361273.cms||Mohammed Akhef
April 18, 2020||Jaipur||Three cops attacked in Tonk during patrolling, 8 arrested||JAIPUR: Three policemen were injured in Tonk on Friday when a crowd attacked them while they were patrolling. According to police, the constables had pulled up a few locals for defying the curfew, but instead of going home, they attacked the policemen. Soon a crowd gathered and roughed up the cops. Police have already arrested eight accused and said more arrests were expected. The three injured constables — Ramraj, Rajendra and Baghchand — were admitted to a hospital. The arrested accused were identified as Khalil Khan, Faraz Rehman, Shanu Rehman, Khalid Khan, Sarifu Rehman, Aamad Miyan, Shehzad and Rashid Abbasi. Tonk ASP Vipin Sharma said, “It happened around 8am when the patrolling team was passing through Kasai Mohalla. The team saw a few people on the road which was a violation of the lockdown. When the violators were asked to return home, they attacked the policemen and two of our constables had to be administered stitches.” Kotwali SHO Bansi Lal said, “The team was only doing its job and there was no need to attack the policemen. Initially, there were a few people but after being hauled for defying the lockdown, the accused called more locals and they not only attacked with sticks, but also pelted stones at the cops. The three cops were in plainclothes walking in front while the uniformed party was just a short distance behind.” Deputy CM and Tonk MLA Sachin Pilot condemning the attack. “I condemn the unfortunate attack on police personnel on duty in Tonk. The injured policemen had to undergo treatment, I pray for their speedy recovery. An attack on #CoronaWarriors will not be tolerated. An inquiry has been ordered.” He also claimed that action will be taken against anyone indulging in violence. Meanwhile, the incident gained political mileage and calling it an attack against humanity, the opposition blamed the state government for it. State BJP president Satish Poonia said, “If the government had not followed the policy of appeasement initially, then we would not have faced such situations where those working against the spread of the disease are being attacked. It is completely the government’s fault and strictest action should be taken against the accused.” A case of attempt to murder has been registered against total of 15 accused. In Ajmer, police arrested two youths on Friday for attacking cops during lockdown in Nasirabad. According to officials, police were asking people to remain at home during lockdown at Sadar Bazaar. At that time, two youths — Javed (29) and Asif (27) — who were violating the lockdown were asked by the constable to return home.They attacked him and fled. A case has been registered against the duo.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/three-cops-attacked-in-tonk-during-patrolling-8-arrested/articleshow/75213024.cms||Yeshika Budhwar
April 18, 2020||Pune||Pune Municipal Corporation screens 30 lakh citizens in a month||PUNE: The civic body has since March 16 screened around 30 lakh citizens as part of its survey in the wake of the Covid-19 outbreak. Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) officials said 763 teams were on the field checking people for symptoms of coronavirus or other flu. The teams are conducting the survey in housing societies, individual bungalows and slum pockets are being contacted during the survey. “Our teams are seeking health details of people and noting symptoms such as fever, cough, sneezing and respiratory problems,” said Vaishali Jadhav, a senior PMC official coordinating the survey. She said the PMC was now planning to repeat the survey in areas with more Covid-19. “The areas around 1km radius of a spot reporting positive cases and deaths will be screened again as part of the civic body’s containment measures to check the spread of virus,” she said. PMC data revealed that the civic body has so far covered 9.24 lakh houses, including those in the newly merged villages, during the survey and found 1,763 symptomatic patients. They have been referred to health hubs for further medical advice. The PMC had in the first phase of its containment plan sealed the Peth areas in the old city and some parts of Kondhwa. In the second phase, around 22 densely populated areas, including several slum pockets, were sealed. Officials in the civic body said the focus of the surveillance was more on the sealed areas where the number of positive patients has been on the rise. “We are looking forward to deploying more mobile vans in the sealed areas to conduct regular health check-ups of people. The vans are equipped with medical staffers and will be deployed in specific areas,” an official said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/pmc-screens-30l-citizens-in-a-month/articleshow/75212239.cms||Sarang Dastane
April 18, 2020||Goa||Goa dilly-dallies on asking SC to treat mining case as urgent||PANAJI: The state government’s lack of initiative to plead before the Supreme Court that the mining case scheduled on April 21 is treated as an urgent matter has left the fate of mining resumption hanging in balance. The apex court, due to the lockdown, is only hearing urgent matters. The scheduled April 21 hearing pertains to a case in which two mining companies sought the extension of leases till 2037. Speaking to TOI, chief minister Pramod Sawant said that the state government hasn’t yet taken a call on approaching the Supreme Court to treat the mining case as an urgent matter. “We are yet to decide,” he said. Sources said that neither the mines ministry nor mining companies have filed applications to treat the case as urgent. “Presently, only urgent matters are being heard by the SC through video-conferencing,” additional solicitor general ANS Nadkarni told TOI. “However, if any case of urgency is made out by any party, the SC will list the matter and notify the same.” A senior government official said that with tourism likely to take a beating owing to Covid-19, mining is the only avenue through which the state can generate revenue. Earlier, Sawant had urged PM Narendra Modi to file a supporting affidavit before the SC in the mining matter to resume mining activities in the state. The state government told the court that mining leases can be extended to 2037 as per the mining companies’ contention, but that it would abide by the decision of the court. Mining in Goa came to a halt on March 15, 2018, following the Supreme Court’s decision to quash the second renewal of 88 mining leases. Recently, the court allowed the export of iron ore extracted before that date. An official said that from August 2015 to March 2018, mining companies extracted ore but didn’t pay royalty. Sawant said that there currently is 1.45MT of ore for which royalty has been paid, and 7.7MT for which royalty hasn’t been paid. In his budget for 2020-21, Sawant project revenue of Rs 500 crore from the mining sector.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/state-dilly-dallies-on-asking-sc-to-treat-mining-case-as-urgent/articleshow/75212242.cms||Murari Shetye
April 18, 2020||Dehradun||Nepal resident unable to return to attend mother’s cremation; performs rituals from across the border in India||PITHORAGARH: Basudev Bhatt, 35, a Nepalese migrant labourer, is pensive as he sits in the camp set up for Nepalese residents who were stuck on the Indian side of the border when the Covid-19 lockdown was announced by both India and Nepal. Bhatt’s mother passed away in Nepal a few days ago and he could not make it to his home to attend the last rites. “How unfortunate a son I am that my mother died just a few kilometres away from the Indian border in Nepal but I could not even see her for the last time before she was cremated,” he said, his voice choked with emotion. Bhatt, a resident of Dharchula district of Nepal, had come to India along with other labourers to work at a road construction site on the Indian side in Dharchula tehsil in Pithoragarh district. He had been staying at the camp set up by the Pithoragarh district administration for stranded Nepalese citizen at Baluakot since over one week. Speaking to TOI, he reminisced, “On April 13 — which is observed as the Nepalese new year — I had spoken to my mother Gomati Devi, 65, on mobile. She was very sad that I was unable to reach home for the festival. My village is just 15 km away from the border and I can reach there in three hours on foot.” The next day, on April 14, he received news of his mother’s death. He contacted Nepalese as well as Indian officials seeking permission to cross the border to attend his mother’s last rites but with the permission taking time, his relatives, after waiting for two days, proceeded with the cremation. “We are five brothers and one sister. I am the eldest son. My three brothers are at home but being the eldest, it was my duty to perform the last rituals of my mother. Since I could not reach home on time, I am performing rituals in the camp, have also shaved my head and am staying in isolation,” Bhatt said. SS Dhami, the official supervising the Baluakot camp, said that a separate place had been provided to Bhatt within the camp to perform the rituals. Meanwhile, Vijay Kumar Jogdande, district magistrate, Pithoragarh, told TOI that a written request had been received by them seeking permission for Basudev Bhatt to travel to Nepal on humanitarian grounds and it had been sent to the Sahastra Seema Bal (SSB). Administrative sources said that SSB officials have forwarded the request to their headquarters and are awaiting instructions.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/nepal-resident-unable-to-return-to-attend-mothers-cremation-performs-rituals-from-across-the-border-in-india/articleshow/75209943.cms||Prem Punetha
April 18, 2020||Hubballi||Many institutions stop using Zoom for online clases||Hubballi: In the wake of MHA’s advisory that Zoom video conference is not a safe platform, many educational institutions in Dharwad district have decided to stop using the application to conduct online classes for students during lockdown. Ishwar Bhat, vice-chancellor, Karnatak State Law University, said KSLU has been conducting online classes for its students since a week to cover all pending syllabus by using Zoom. “But, now we are thinking of opting for other safe applications to continue our online classes. We will use e-mail and YouTube channel to provide study material to our students till we find alternative options to Zoom,” he said. TM Bhaskar, in-charge VC, Karnatak University, Dharwad, said, “We still have to complete at least 30% of syllabus in both PG and UG courses. So we are teaching students online. But, after MHA’s Advisory, we have stopped using Zoom and given more thrust on creating WhatsApp groups for students and teachers. We will also reach out to students through YouTube videos. We are now exploring other suitable applications for online classes to replace Zoom,” he added. Veeresh Angadi, principal, KLE Society’s CI Munavalli Polytechnic, said they have stopped using Zoom since Friday and switched over to Google Meet to conduct online classes.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hubballi/many-institutions-stop-using-zoom-for-online-clases/articleshow/75206889.cms||Basavaraj Kattimani
April 18, 2020||Trichy||Once a ‘Tik-Tok menace’, 20-year-old student is now a Covid-19 educator||TRICHY: A ‘Tik-Tok menace’ until a couple of months ago, a polytechnic college student who was arrested for creating public nuisance is now helping the police during the lockdown. While he was arrested for disturbing people at public places and making dance videos, he is now using the same tool to sensitize people on fighting Covid-19 and maintaining social distancing. It was the inspector of Vadakadu police station who facilitated his transformation by taking the responsibility to release him on bail after getting nod from his superior. “Society had side-lined me for my mistakes and I was booked for disturbing public. I could have been behind bars for at least 15 days, but inspector Barath Srinivasan believed in me and gave me another chance to correct myself,” says T Kannan, 20, from Raja Kudiyiruppu village. Kannan said the inspector instilled confidence in him and encouraged him to make Tik-Tok videos but this time for protecting the people from the novel coronavirus. Arrested by Vadakadu police on February 20, he was booked under section 291 of IPC for public nuisance and section 341 for wrongful restraint. “Eldest among four children, Kannan comes from a poor family and we found during inquiry that he was misguided by his friends. Therefore, I requested my superior to give him bail and kept him under my watch,” said Barath Srinivasan. “I have made over half a dozen awareness videos educating the public on the measures to prevent spread of Covid-19. Now the same people who criticised me are appreciating me for by good deeds,” said a beaming Kannan satisfied at doing a good deed. Pudukottai SP Arun Sakthi Kumar told TOI that Kannan was not a repeat offender and hence the inspector asked him to let him out on bail. “Kannan made use of the opportunity and also turned a Good Samaritan as we expected him to become,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/once-a-tik-tok-menace-20-year-old-student-is-now-a-covid-19-educator/articleshow/75213031.cms||Sampath Kumar
April 18, 2020||Ahmedabad||Free care at certain private hospitals in Gujarat||GANDHINAGAR: The state government on Friday announced that Covid-19 treatment will be provided free of cost at designated private hospitals. Ashwani Kumar, secretary to CM said, “The CM has decided that designated private hospitals will provide Covid-19 treatment and medicines free of cost. At present, there are 31 designated private hospitals.” The state government finalized a two-month agreement with these private hospitals. Depending on requirement, district collectors have been authorised to add more hospitals to the list. All patients who are discharged will receive free breakfast, meals and medicines for the next five days. Blood samples of suspected cases will be tested and the cost will be reimbursed by the government, an official statement said. The state government also announced that it will provide PPE kits, N-95 masks, triple-layer masks and HCQ tablets to these hospitals.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/free-care-at-certain-private-hospitals/articleshow/75211439.cms||---
April 18, 2020||Chennai||TN’s flower growers wilt under lockdown impact||Chennai: Every day, by 9am, Banumathi Muthu would be ready with a despatch of aromatic jasmine flowers from her farm. But since the Covid-19 lockdown, this source of income for the single woman heading a family of four has dried up. Banumathi is among the more than 1.5 lakh flower growers in Tamil Nadu. One of the largest producers of loose flowers in India, Tamil Nadu’s major crops include the iconic jasmine besides rose, chrysanthemum, marigold, crossandra, nerium and tuberose. These are the main cash crops for smallholder farmers in many parts of the state. With more than 32,400 hectares under floriculture and production of 482,500 tonnes in 2017-18, Tamil Nadu contributes to about 25% of the national loose flower production. The state’s export earnings of flowers (loose and cut) stood at Rs240.81 crore in 208-19. With jasmine occupying nearly 39% and rose 22% of the total cultivated area, the majority of it is for export and trade to other states. For the remaining flowers, the market is largely within the state and its neighbouring areas. On an average, the area under flower cultivation by a farmer ranges from 200sqm to 4,000sqm based on the availability of family labour, choice of crop and access to irrigation. Given these estimated costs, the average loss per hectare for floriculture for 30 days of lockdown during the peak flowering season is around Rs2 lakh (see table). Banumathi is at a loss. "I usually get around Rs2,000 per day, sometimes more during the Muhurtham season. We were satisfied with what we had," she said. Not far from Banumathi’s farm is the slightly larger farm of Mathiyalagan in Alangudi, Pudukkottai district. Usually Mathiyalagan’s family of five would pitch in for the peak season that begins in March transporting about 20kg-25kg flowers to the commission agent. "There’s nothing now. I can take my two-wheeler and try to reach a buyer but when there are no weddings or private ceremonies and religious places are shut, there are no possibilities to find buyers for flowers. I understand this lockdown is for our health but I’m worried about our farm’s health and at a total loss as to what I can do." Beyond the farm, those affected include farm hands, those vending flowers, workers making and selling garlands, all of whom are losing daily wages in the range of Rs200 – Rs1,200. While guidelines for agricultural produce have been issued to facilitate movement of harvested fruits, vegetables and other produce under essential commodities, floriculture has not been addressed yet. Apart from cancelled events, flower such as jasmine and marigold processed for their chemical constituents are also lying around due to the closure of processing units. The impact of the lockdown will be felt long after it ends as the wilting and falling flowers are likely to affect farms. When farmers don’t harvest flowers, poor field sanitation and plant health can lead to buildup of pests and diseases like jasmine bud worm, blight, wilt and root rot, nematode attack in crossandra, tube rose, rust and scales in rose and root rot in marigold and chrysanthemum. To tackle this some farmers are pruning, which is usually done in June. This means a definite income loss until June, instead of it being the peak season. Since flowers are the significant cash crop of almost one whole season for small farmers, it will impact investment in the next crop cultivation. Based on field assessments, experts including B Selvamukilan and R Rajkumar of M S Swaminathan Research Foundation recommend immediate and mid-term measures which begin with assessment of loss that farmers have incurred to work out compensation protocols and payment structure to rebuild confidence of farmers. This needs to be followed up with providing necessary agro-advisories to maintain good field conditions and plant health, so that productivity is maintained. Ensuring availability of quality seeds and cuttings for the coming season will help farmers get a better start. In the mid-term, the state should help establish essential oil extraction units in hubs where jasmine, tube rose and marigold are predominant, so that there can be an ancillary income. For now, Banumathi is encouraging girls in her village to help themselves to the jasmine in her fields and decorate their hair. "At least some of it won’t go waste," she says. "We have always been independent and even now we are not looking for compensation but some support to carry on our livelihood will help. I don’t know how and whether we will ever recover" (The authors work with the M S Swaminathan Research Foundation)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/tns-flower-growers-wilt-under-lockdown-impact/articleshow/75197355.cms||---
April 18, 2020||Goa||‘Govt should save bank’||Margao: Leader of opposition Digambar Kamat on Friday demanded that the state government take immediate steps to ensure that the interests of the depositors, employees and account holders of the Mapusa Urban Co-operative Bank (MUCB) are adequately protected. “I demand with the chief minister to immediately consult financial experts to work out a plan. Hard earned money of each person needs to be protected,” Kamat said. Kamat demanded that the government take proactive steps of investing in the bank to regain the licence.He suggested it can opt to give it the status of co-operative society.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/govt-should-save-bank/articleshow/75212264.cms||---
April 18, 2020||Kolkata||Dialysis patients in Kolkata struggle to get hospital admission||KOLKATA: Several dialysis patients have been turned away by some private hospitals over the last few days on the ground that the former could be ‘asymptomatic’ Covid-19 positive and may put others at risk. The plight of dialysis patients comes in the wake of a private hospital, where several healthworkers had tested positive, apparently after being infected by those undergoing dialysis, shut down temporarily. A patient with renal failure had suffered a deterioration during the procedure at a private hospital on April 11. His blood pressure dropped and he felt nausea, a common symptom of a dialysis patient, pointed out his son Rahul Agarwal. “But the hospital denied him future dialysis saying these are Covid symptoms. His condition started deteriorating and none of the government hospitals where you can get a Covid-19 test done conducts dialysis. We went around private hospitals but all of them refused dialysis without a test,” said Agarwal. TimesViewThe healthcare system is being stretched like never before. Keeping non-emergency patients away helps in minimising the risk of infection spreading to other patients, who are also more vulnerable to diseases than other people. But it would help if there is a case-by-case screening of patients to decide who falls within the “emergency” category and who does not.The patient was finally taken to MR Bangur. “Here, my father was kept in a general ward with Covid suspects. Is it safe for an ailing person to be left with Covid patients or suspects?” he pointed out. The patient has tested negative. Another 72-year-old dialysis patient had to be hurriedly taken out of a hospital that was shut down after healthworkers tested positive there. She was first taken to a nursing home which made her wait for several hours before refusing. She was then taken to a private hospital which kept her in a segregated zone for a day without dialysis. “We were then told that she needs a Covid test first and we must take her away,” said a family member. The ailing woman – who had no Covid symptoms – finally underwent a dialysis at a Salt Lake nursing home on Wednesday after she tested negative. An IT engineer said two private hospitals had refused dialysis to his 70-year-old father since Monday. “They told me that he must undergo a Covid test before dialysis. But there was no guarantee that the test will be done this week and I should look for an alternative,” he asked. Some private hospitals admitted that they were worried about dialysis patients and were waiting for guidelines from the health department. “We are not yet in a position to test all non-suspected patients but we are screening every dialysis patient. If they are found to be suspects, we are testing them. Otherwise, they are not subjected to tests,” said RN Tagore International Institute of Cardiac Sciences zonal director R Venkatesh. AMRI Hospitals said it was sticking to the ICMR guideline and testing all suspects before dialysis. “Delaying dialysis could be fatal since accumulation of urine could lead to renal failure,” said consultant Arindam Biswas.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/dialysis-patients-struggle-to-get-hospital-admission/articleshow/75211383.cms||Prithvijit Mitra
April 18, 2020||Pune||Pune ZP starts door-to-door survey of women in 12 talukas||Pune: The Pune Zilla Parishad started a door-to-door survey of women in 12 talukas on Friday to check on their health, well-being of pregnant women, ensure supply of essentials and look into complaints of domestic violence, if any. Teams comprising anganwadi workers, members of the grampanchayat, Asha health workers, among others, have been formed to conduct the survey amidst the lockdown.District coordinator of the initiative in Pune ZP, Sonali Awachat, said, "In many other places in India and abroad, we have heard stories of domestic violence. Hence, we are just taking preventive steps to protect women in our district, especially in rural areas. We are fortunate that we have not received any complaint from our district yet."Each taluka will have seven teams. They will move from door-to-door to check on women in every household. Awachat said that there are several women who are pregnant and also those who have delivered babies recently. "Our volunteers will have a record of such women and their needs will be documented for future help."The volunteers will also note if the essential supplies are being delivered to households and also any other issues faced by them.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/pune-zp-starts-door-to-door-survey-of-women-in-12-talukas/articleshow/75212261.cms||---
April 18, 2020||Trichy||NIT-Trichy to provide face masks to medical, sanitary workers||TRICHY: The National Institute of Technology (NIT-T) Trichy will manufacture of low cost reusable face shields and distribute it among Covid-19 frontline workers like medical staff and sanitary workers apart from security guards. “This shield fits comfortably for different faces and provides a barrier coverage to the front and sides of the face without hampering vision. The main advantage is that it can be reused after washing with soap and water,” said NIT Trichy director Mini Shaji Thomas. “Recent research indicates that face shields are more effective in preventing us from touching our face which is vital for Covid-19 prevention,” says M Duraiselvam, dean, planning and development, NIT Trichy. NIT-T is planning to produce 200 masks a day. It will sell the product at raw material cost on a not-for-profit basis after consulting the district administration. “There is good demand for face shields which is sold for Rs 150 per piece. But we have optimised its design so that it could be sold for Rs 70,” he added. The face shields will be produced in the Siemens centre of excellence at NIT. “We have sought special permission from the collector to procure polylactic acid filament, which is the raw material, from Coimbatore. Apart from starting thermal scanning at the main gate, NIT Trichy has prepared about 2,800 reusable face masks and distributed in the campus,” said Duraiselvam.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/nit-t-to-provide-face-masks-to-medical-sanitary-workers/articleshow/75213025.cms||---
April 18, 2020||Madurai||How pandemic crippled their lives||Selvam, 53, of Ulaganeri, cycles to his favourite spot on the Town Hall Road in the city every morning for the past one week anxious to see whether shops have opened, so that he can also set up his toy stand again. Selvam, father of three, says that his life has turned upside down ever since the beginning of the lockdown. "The government dole was not enough to sustain the family. I have to pay my son’s medical bills, for which I will have to beg or borrow if the situation continues," he said. His elder son has just finished his education and is waiting for a job, and the second son had to undergo kidney transplantation about two years ago, and that was when Selvam donated his kidney. "My 24-year-old son is doing well, but I have to ensure that he gets his medicines regularly, which will cost Rs 5,000, and now even daily food has become a big question," he said. "I gave him my kidney, believing that he would take care of our family," he said. The transplant was done at a private hospital in Madurai, and he had borrowed money for the surgery. "My business is small toys and leather belts which I put on a temporary stand on the pavements. I used to earn Rs 500 a day, but for the past 20 days I have not even earned a single penny," he said. Social distancing will keep people off autos -S Balamurugan, Auto Driver S Balamurugan, 34, of Aruldosspuram, an auto rickshaw driver, says that his daily earnings had been about Rs 800 with which he could comfortably manage his family expenses and fuel for his vehicle. "I had admitted both my children to private schools, because I wanted them to have good jobs, but today I doubt whether I can pay their fees for the next term, which is more than Rs 20,000," he said. "He says that his friends have been talking about how difficult life would be after lockdown. They think that people would not be able to travel in autos, because social distancing cannot be maintained if thrwee people travel in a vehicle at a time, we are all apprehensive of becoming unemployed," he said Making ends meet with unpaid rent -N Telfer Moses, Bike taxi driver N Telfer Moses, 35, is able to run his family with the unpaid rent of Rs 4,500 for the month of March, thanks to the kind hearted land lord. Life has not been easy for this orphaned B.Com computer applications graduate, especially after the Covid-19 outbreak. The impact started hitting him had a week before the lockdown. His regular jobs were not enough to run his family of four including his wife who is a homemaker and two children aged eight and three. "I became a driver with a bike taxi aggregator about a year ago. Riding 10 hours a day I used to get Rs 650 and after fuel expenses I took home Rs 400," he said. Since March 15, he has been 50% less rides due to the outbreak and the app was locked by the aggregator preventing rides from March 23. "The dole from the government is hardly enough to buy milk for my children for a month," he said. "My landlord was generous. But I have to pay him Rs 9,000 next month. I hope things will settle down by then," added Telfer who is among the nearly 600 bike taxi riders in the city. Well-wishers still give me some work -M Balamurugan, Ironing man M Balamurugan, 50, is a well-known face in Gomathypuram, Madurai, as he has been ironing clothes for people in the area for nearly a quarter century. An iron vendor, he had worked 24 X7 and could be seen among piles of clothes from 8 am to 9 pm along with his wife Murugalakshmi. Life was smooth for him before the lockdown as he used to iron not less than 150 pieces for a fee ranging from Rs 6 to Rs 20 based on the type of dress. "I used to make about Rs 1,000 a day. Now, people are not moving outdoors and there is no need for ironed clothes. Some well-wishers still give me a handful of clothes to iron, about 20 pieces a day, so that I make some money," he said. The couple say with their daily earnings being affected, they are now trying to make ends meet. How I wish I had studied well -K Sakthivel Murugan, Construction worker A construction worker for 30 years, Sakthivel Murugan, 40, of Keela Vaidhyanathapuram in Madurai says the crisis has made him realise the importance of education. "I did not study well and started working at construction sites to augment my family’s income. I learnt the tricks of the trade and became a mason, but today I fear that my family will go hungry," he said. He used to earn Rs 500 a day and get work 22 days a month. The construction industry has not been doing well and there have been problems in salaries. "But now, even my little savings have almost diminished, because I have had to pay rent and buy groceries, vegetables and medicines for my family,’’ he said. He has been forced to borrow money from his contractor to make ends meet. ``If life gets back to normal, I would be using a major portion of my salary to repay the loan, and that would again put my family in a tight situation,’’ he said. He had registered long ago with the welfare board for the unorganised sector, but now has been told that only those who renewed their applications would get the Rs 1,000 government relief. Waiting for temple gates to open -P Mariamma, Sweeper in temple “I hope things will be fine when my grandson turns one-year-old on May 3, the last day of the 40-day lockdown," says P Mariamma, 51, of Bibikulam who is a temple sweeper. After losing her ailing husband, the widow has been the lone earning member. Her divorced young daughter and grandchild are her dependents. She has been working in a temple in Thallakulam for the last 10 years, since her husband’s demise. Sweeping the temple twice she earned Rs 6,000 a month. "Now the temple is closed due to Covid-19 and we are only hoping that the gates are opened sothat I can be back to work," she said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/how-pandemic-crippled-their-lives/articleshow/75211377.cms||---
April 18, 2020||Pune||Over 1,600 citizens gain from Pune Municipal Corporation’s tiffin service||PUNE: The Pune Municipal Corporation’s free tiffin service for the elderly and the disabled during the prevailing lockdown has found over 1,600 takers so far. Civic officials said they had started a special cell to coordinate with the citizens and NGOs as well as companies to ensure that people didn’t suffer during the lockdown. “Mobility has become a major issue for people, especially for the elderly and the disabled. So, we are providing free food to them on demand,” Shrinivas Kandul, coordinator of the special cell, said. PMC officials said citizens can approach the civic body to avail of the service. “The selection of the beneficiaries is done based on the need and their financial condition,” a civic official said, adding that the cell was also providing and coordinating the infrastructure development of PMC health facilities, including intensive care unit (ICU), beds, ventilators and monitors. The cell also looks after providing medicinal equipment and other material required to fight coronavirus, such as personal protective equipment (PPE) and sanitisers. “Allotment of entertainment and electronic gadgets like TV, computers, laptops is also done to equip isolation wards as well as quarantine centres,” the official added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/over-1-6k-citizens-gain-from-pmcs-tiffin-service/articleshow/75212269.cms||---
April 18, 2020||Goa||People sneaking into Goa from Covid-19 hotspot Belagavi: Rane||Panaji: Health minister Vishwajit Rane on Friday stated that there has been “an exodus” of people into Goa from Belagavi, which has seen a spike in Covid-19 cases. He has brought it to the attention of chief minister Pramod Sawant and has assured him that an appropriate action will be taken. “The exodus of people from Belagavi to Goa is a grave concern ,” said Rane. Rane said he has written a letter to the chief minister and the chief secretary,apprising them of the happenings at the Keri outpost. “Entry of passenger vehicles into the state of Goa should be stopped. This is because Covid-19 cases are doubling in Belagavi,” he said. He said he has received information from panchayat members of his constituency in Valpoi that Belagavi people are entering Goa by bypassing the police at Keri outpost. Since last month, Goa borders with Karnataka and Maharashtra have been sealed due to rise of Covid-19 cases in both the states.Presently, only vehicles carrying essential goods are permitted entry. Goa relies heavily on Belagavi for supply of vegetables and fruits. It is suspected that people from Karnataka are sneaking into Goa either through unmanned interior roads or through jungle routes after sunset. Goa police say that strict vigil is maintained at all police outposts to prevent people from gaining entry illegally. Only those with valid travel permits are allowed to enter.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/people-sneaking-into-goa-from-covid-19-hotspot-belagavi-rane/articleshow/75212285.cms||---
April 18, 2020||Kanpur||Jail staffers organize free kitchens on alternate days||Kanpur: Following in the footsteps of police and railways, the jail police (bandi rakshaks) have been providing food to around 600 underprivileged people every alternate day. So far, they have successfully conducted seven such free kitchens. Jail superintendent Ashish Tiwari informed that the complete project belonged to bandi rakshaks. Tiwary allowed them to use the vacant land as a temporary kitchen. The bandi rakshaks who took the initiative are Gaurav Dixit, Prateek Pandey, Santosh Sharma, Dinesh Yadav, Ashok Mishra and Alok Singh. “After we had a discussion on the plight of the poor who are the worst affected lot due to the pandemic as well as the lockdown, we decided to cook and provide free meals to as many needy people as possible,” said Gaurav. “The jail superintendent allowed us to use jail land as a temporary kitchen. In our first free kitchen, we fed around 600 people. Since then, we have been preparing meals every alternate day for the same number of people,” he added. Gaurav told TOI that he and other bandi rakshaks funded the initiative and also assiste in the prepararion of meals. “Arranging food for 600 people costs us around Rs 12,000. Due to limited means, we run the kitchen every alternate day and have organized seven free kitchens so far,” said Gaurav.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kanpur/jail-staffers-organize-free-kitchens-on-alternate-days/articleshow/75210943.cms||---
April 18, 2020||Hyderabad||Fire NOC: No TSBIE affiliation for 68 junior colleges||HYDERABAD: Telangana State Board of Intermediate Education (TSBIE) on Friday announced that application for affiliation for 26 intermediate colleges from Narayana Group and 18 from Sri Chaitanya Educational Institutions have been rejected for the academic year 2019-20 for not having fire NOCs. In total, applications of 68 colleges were rejected. While the affiliation rules make it mandatory to have fire NOC for all buildings with 15 metres or above height for grant of affiliation, these colleges have submitted an undertaking saying that they won’t seek affiliation from next year for these colleges. The colleges which were not granted affiliation also include 8 junior colleges from Sri Gayatri, 5 from NRI, and 11 belonging to other managements. The secretary of the board Syed Omer Jaleel said that there won’t be any problem for students who are already enrolled in these colleges. “Second-year students studying in these colleges will be allowed to appear for the exam in the academic year 2020-21,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/fire-noc-no-bie-affiliation-for-68-jr-colgs/articleshow/75212286.cms||---
April 18, 2020||Madurai||Celestial wedding in Madurai to be live telecasted||MADURAI: The famous Chithirai festival of the Sri Meenakshi Sundareswarar temple in Madurai has been cancelled this year. The celestial wedding, however, will be performed in a minimalistic manner and will be telecasted live on their website. According to a press statement, the joint commissioner of the temple N Natarajan has said that all the related rituals, the processions, ‘thigvijayam’ the coronation and other ceremonies stand cancelled. However, the ‘celestial wedding’ would be performed in the first corridor of the sanctum sanctorum of the Lord Sundareswarar between 9.05 am and 9.29 am, on May 4 by four priests maintaining social distancing. Steps have been taken to live telecast the ceremony on the website www.maduraimeenakshi.org on May 4, he has said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/celestial-wedding-to-be-live-telecasted/articleshow/75211398.cms||---
April 18, 2020||Pune||More morning joggers face police action in Pune||PUNE: ‘Operation All Out’, an initiative by the Pune police to keep people indoors, continued for the second straight day on Friday. The police book 126 morning walkers/joggers for violating the lockdown norms. The errant citizens were made to do meditation, sit-ups and sit for long hours. Police seized their vehicles and told them to return home on foot after filing cases. “We have been receiving lots of complaints from citizens’ groups that joggers were violating the lockdown in places including Kalyanianagar,” deputy commissioner of police (Zone IV) Pankaj Deshmukh told TOI. “For three days, we issued appeals to joggers to not come out of their homes. When that didn’t work, we started taking action. We found that joggers are under the impression they are safe from Covid-19 just because they live in housing societies,” Deshmukh said. “We keep telling them to utilize their time reading, developing new hobby and learn new skills online. Those from Peth areas come out for petty reasons, like going to Market Yard even though vegetables can be purchased from local shops. We do go easy on those who come out for genuine reasons,” DCP (Zone II) Shirish Sardeshpande said. Many were found to be defiant and refuse to acknowledge their fault, police said. “They are educated but refuse to admit their mistakes. The Khadak police have taken action against 60 joggers. We have also taken action against elderly people and milk delivery persons for not heeding to the two-hour window in Deccan Gymkhana, Faraskhana, Timber Market and Mominpura,” DCP (Zone I) Swapna Gore said. According to the Yerawada police, joggers from Kalyaninagar were especially stubborn, despite notices sent to housing societies and appeals on public address systems. “They come out in groups and walk their dogs When caught, they pick up arguments on the grounds that no one has tested positive from their area yet,” senior inspector Yunus Shaikh said. The Yerawada police have action against 78 joggers, including a Japan national, at Kalyaninagar, Jail Road and Parnakuti. A few residents commended this initiative by the police. “The more people follow rules, the sooner we can control the spread of Covid-19. Residents of Kalyani Nagar have been careful by and large. Societies too have implemented stringent measures at entry and exit as well,” Purnima Joshi, member of Kalyaninagar Residents’ Association, said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/more-morning-joggers-face-police-action/articleshow/75212289.cms||Asseem Shaikh
April 18, 2020||Goa||CCP tows away 153 abandoned cars & bikes||Panaji: The Corporation of the City of Panaji (CCP) on Friday towed 153 abandoned vehicles including 43 four-wheelers and 110 two-wheelers to Campal Parade Ground. “A public notice giving people six months’ time to remove their vehicles was already issued by the North Goa Collector. After the notice period expired on March 16, around 40 vehicles were removed,” city mayor Uday Madkaikar said, adding that the vehicles will be auctioned after all they are towed to the ground. He said that CCP will issue an auction notice and the auction date will be fixed. The rest of the vehicles will be towed on Saturday. The vehicles were lying in and around Panaji city and occupying precious parking spaces for years. They were picked up from Madhuban circle at St Inez, near Mahalaxmi temple, Inox, Campal, in the vicinity of the electricity department and other places.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/ccp-tows-away-153-abandoned-cars-bikes/articleshow/75212281.cms||---
April 18, 2020||Ahmedabad||Testing in Ahmedabad pre-empted two lakh infections: Vijay Nehra||AHMEDABAD: Ahmedabad Municipal Commissioner Vijay Nehra said the proactive surveillance and aggressive testing by the AMC had prevented two lakh Covid-19 infections in the city. On Friday morning, Nehra said there were 571 cases reported in Ahmedabad city. “Of these, 500 tested positive after AMC field staff identifies them. If we assume one such case leads to 400 infections, the AMC’s through proactive surveillance and aggressive testing has saved nearly two lakh people from getting infected.” Nehra added that as the Covid-19 mortality rate is over three percent, it could be extrapolated that active surveillance has saved 5,000 lives in the city. The commissioner said that on Thursday field teams collected 1,898 samples, the highest daily number so far. He said that the AMC has so far tested 10,676 cases of which 1,400 were passive testing and 9,276 were active surveillance. He claimed the AMC’s strategy was more aggressive than even European countries. We are calling the AMC strategy of proactive surveillance and aggressive testing “Chasing the Virus”. “We are confident that the AMC will definitely defeat the virus with the support of the people,” he said. Some 742 teams of the AMC surveyed 1.05 lakh houses and carried out health check-ups on 4.48 lakh people.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/testing-in-city-pre-empted-two-lakh-infections-nehra/articleshow/75211432.cms||---
April 18, 2020||Dehradun||PIL in Uttarakhand HC alleges health workers do not have enough PPE kits, adequate food and basic amenities||NAINITAL: The Uttarakhand high court (HC) on Friday heard a Public Interest Litigation (PIL) which alleged that the health workers in the forefront of the fight against novel Coronavirus are not being provided adequate number of Personal Protective Equipment (PPE) kits. The petition states that in some instances, doctors as well as other professionals have not been given proper food and other essential amenities as well. Sanpreet Singh Ajmani, a lawyer in the HC and the petitioner in this case who appeared in person (via video conferencing) before the bench of Justice Lok Pal Singh and Justice Manoj Kumar Tiwari, told TOI that the division bench heard him as well as the lawyers for the centre and state. "We have pleaded before the court to issue directions as it deems fit so that the safety and security of the health professionals can be ensured," Ajmani said. The bench disposed the petition on Friday itself while giving the petitioner liberty to approach the court again. The court's order, however, wasn’t available till the time of filing of this report. In his petition, Ajmani cited several media reports to say that there is a shortage of PPE kits and that the state government is discriminating against the non-regular employees by not giving them equal pay. "The healthcare workers attending to, and treating the patients of Covid-19 are being infected due to lack of PPE kits. In some places, the situation is quite alarming, as the healthcare workers are not being provided with food and other basic amenities. For instance, the healthcare workers of a Haldwani hospital have put forward their grief," the petition read. "Several irregular employees are doing the same work, which is being carried by a regular employee. The principle of law ‘equal work, equal pay’ is not being followed by the state government in letter and spirit," it added. The petition has also demanded that the HC should direct the district magistrate (DM) of Nainital to make arrangements for the people of Banbhoolpura in Haldwani where a curfew was imposed on Monday after a rumour prompted hundreds of locals to come on streets. "It is imperative to note here that most of the people residing in Banbhoolpura area are downtrodden and belong to weaker sections. Thus, it would be expedient that the administration be directed to provide basic amenities to the people residing in that area for their survival and ensure that the people may not suffer starvation," the petition read.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/pil-in-ukhand-hc-alleges-health-workers-do-not-have-enough-ppe-kits-says-many-of-them-are-not-even-getting-adequate-food-and-basic-amenities/articleshow/75210002.cms||Prashant Jha
April 18, 2020||Lucknow||UP: Education department get Appy to light creativity among students||LUCKNOW: Rescuing kids from lockdown blues, the basic education department will broadcast educational programmes on Doordarshan-UP at 11.30 am from Saturday and its audio content will be aired on Akashwani at 11 am every day.  This would ignite a creative spark among students and stop regression from setting in, said officials. Children can listen to academic audios on Akashwani’s primary channel through ‘News on Air’ mobile application. Through these educational audio-videos prepared by UNICEF, the government aims to provide schoolchildren with daily dose of academics while schools remain closed.Also, it’s promoting digital learning through academic content on apps and circulation of educational programmes like ‘Aao Angrezi Seekhein’ among teachers and parents through WhatAapp group created by basic education officers and block education officers.To keep children busy, the department also launched another mobile app, ‘Top Parent’, which will enable learning in different languages through puzzles, stories and games. This app is created with an aim to ensure active participation of parents in children’s home work. The department also created a library — Tik Tok Learn — for class 1-10 students for quick grasp of science and mathematics. This library has content in five languages — Hindi, English, Odiya, Marathi and Telugu — and 2,000 videos have been already been uploaded. This also contains short animated videos for social science subjects for class 3-8 on lines of NCERT and CBSE curriculum.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/edu-dept-get-appy-to-light-creativity-among-students/articleshow/75212299.cms||---
April 18, 2020||Goa||Goa: Around 30,000 persons found with flu-like symptoms, says CM Pramod Sawant||PANAJI: Chief minister Pramod Sawant on Friday said that around 30,000 people have been identified to be suffering from Influenza like illness (ILI) and severe acute respiratory infection (SARI) during the three-day house to house community survey. The state government had recently conducted the survey to identify persons with Covid-19 symptoms. Sawant said the government will find out if there is any travel history among 25,000 to 30,000 people or their family members. “After screening, we will test them for Covid-19. The number may reduce to 15,000 for those with travel history. If anyone, or their family members, have travel history then we will take their swab test,” Sawant said. Sawant said through the survey they have covered nearly 5 lakh houses in the state. He said a committee, under the chairmanship of Dr Jagadish Kakodkar, HOD, preventive and social medicine, GMC, has been set up to examine the survey samples. The benefit of this survey is that the state government will be able to ascertain if there are any persons with coronavirus symptoms for which tests can be conducted, Sawant said. The chief minister had said that based on this, the government would “be able to declare Goa as a safe zone vis-à-vis Covid-19”. Around 7,000 trained government employees, teachers of government and government-aided schools, booth-level officers and ANM staff were involved in he house-to-house survey, asking six questions prepared by the health department. The survey was conducted across 1,560 polling booths in the state, and was on the lines of the one carried out in Rajasthan’s Bhilwara district. Sawant said that if someone is seen new in the locality then villagers should inform the authority so that they can be put in quarantined facilities..||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/sawant-around-30k-persons-found-with-flu-like-symptoms/articleshow/75212307.cms||---
April 18, 2020||Delhi||No proof yet that tuberculosis vaccine can fight Covid-19: WHO||NEW DELHI: World Health Organisation is studying if Bacille Calmette-Guérin (BCG), a decades old tuberculosis vaccine, can protect people against infection with Covid-19 virus. According to the UN health body, two clinical trials addressing this question are under way, and WHO will evaluate the evidence when it is available. “In the absence of evidence, WHO does not recommend BCG vaccination for the prevention of Covid-19. WHO continues to recommend neonatal BCG vaccination in countries or settings with a high incidence of tuberculosis,” WHO said. On Friday, Raman Gangakhedkar, chief epidemiologist, ICMR said, they were also conducting a trial to assess whether BCG vaccine could be given for prophylaxis even among the healthcare workers. “We will be able to say something definite only when the results are out,” he said. According to WHO, there is an experimental evidence from both animal and human studies that the BCG vaccine has non-specific effects on the immune system. These effects have not been well characterised and their clinical relevance is unknown. On April 11, the UN health body updated its ongoing evidence review of the major scientific databases and clinical trial repositories, using English, French and Chinese search terms for Covid-19, coronavirus, SARS-CoV-2 and BCG. The review yielded three preprints (manuscripts posted online before peer-review), in which the authors compared the incidence of Covid-19 cases in countries where the BCG vaccine was used with those where it wasn’t and observed that countries that routinely used the vaccine in neonates had less reported cases of Covid-19 so far. Such ecological studies are prone to significant bias from many confounders, including differences in national demographics and disease burden, testing rates for Covid-19, and the stage of the pandemic in each country, WHO stated. It added that the review also yielded two registered protocols for clinical trials, both of which aim to study the effects of the BCG vaccination given to healthcare workers directly involved in the care of patients.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/no-proof-yet-that-tb-vaccine-can-fight-covid-who/articleshow/75212304.cms||Durgesh Nandan Jha
April 18, 2020||Pune||Decision on restarting business activities on April 20||PUNE: A decision on to restart businesses and industries in the outer limits of Pimpri Chinchwad Municipal Corporation (PCMC) will be taken on April 20 after due consultation with the Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC), Pune Metropolitan Region Development Authority (PMRDA), and other authorities. “It has to be a joint decision and would depend on to what level we manage to flatten the curve over the next three days,” PCMC commissioner Shravan Hardikar said. The statement follows the recently issued advisory of the Union government calling for the phased opening of the businesses. The state industries department had also recently written to the chief minister Uddhav Thackeray to allow the resumption of limited business activity. The developers across the PCMC limits said they have asked the collector if they could start work with the workers stuck at the sites to keep them occupied while resuming business. The PCMC is also taking a real-time call to allow more e-commerce executives on the field — in line with Centre’s advisory to allow e-commerce sales of all goods, including the non-essential categories, from April 20.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/decision-on-restarting-biz-activities-on-april-20/articleshow/75212311.cms||Satyanarayan Iyer
April 18, 2020||Vadodara||Sisters drop b’day plans, ask parents to donate for Covid||Vadodara: One is seven years old, another 12 years. And neither of the sisters has missed celebrating their birthdays which interestingly falls on the same day – July 7. But this year, younger Sharva and Durva have decided not to celebrate their birthdays and neither will they do any shopping for a year. Instead these daughters of city-based Bhatt family have inspired their parents to donate their savings to PM Cares Fund to help ‘Modi dada’ and the nation to fight the battle against coronavirus. And the parents have readily fulfilled their wish by contributing Rs1 lakh to the fund through Vadodara district collector Shalini Agrawal. From the first day of the 21-day lockdown, the Bhatt family had started contributing their bit by providing 500 food packets on a daily basis to Sayajigunj police station, which in turn would distribute the packets to the needy. “After a week, it became a chain as other family members and friends started contributing in this drive,” said Swati Bhatt, mother of the two and a company secretary by profession. While Swati, 42, and her chartered accountant husband Yash, 44, both of whom run their own firm, continued their drive, they were pleasantly surprised when their daughters came forward with a proposal. “After hearing Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s address to the nation urging the countrymen to help the poor, they came out of their room holding a piggy bank. When I told them that their savings worth Rs17,000 would hardly make any difference, they demanded we provide them some advance with the promise that they will not celebrate their forthcoming birthdays, neither do any shopping nor buy gifts,” said Swati. “We were surprised but were also happy by their gesture. We asked them what is the amount that they wish to contribute and accordingly handed over the cheque,” she said. Agrawal praised the girls and acknowledged the contribution made by them through official handle on microblogging site Twitter on Thursday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/sisters-drop-bday-plans-ask-parents-to-donate-for-covid/articleshow/75209391.cms||Prashant Rupera
April 18, 2020||Mumbai||RBI throws 2nd Rs 1L cr lifeline, prompts banks to lend more||Mumbai: Three weeks after it unveiled its first package on March 27 for an economy battered by the Covid-19 pandemic, the Reserve Bank of India on Friday sought to ensure the solvency of businesses and small non-bank lenders during the extended lockdown period by making available funds to NBFCs. It also allowed banks to delay classifying stressed borrowers as defaulters and also made it less profitable for banks to keep money idle with RBI by reducing the reverse repo rate (the rate it pays for funds parked with it) by 25 basis points. Friday’s measures included a Rs 50,000-crore refinance facility to banks for lending to NBFCs through a new targeted long-term repo lending operation (TLTRO 2), Rs 50,000 crore funding support for refinance institutions, and reducing rates on bank funds parked with RBI. The focused liquidity support is intended to avert a crisis in the NBFC sector. Mumbai: Three weeks after it unveiled its first package on March 27 for an economy battered by the Covid-19 pandemic, the Reserve Bank of India on Friday sought to ensure the solvency of businesses and small non-bank lenders during the extended lockdown period by making available funds to NBFCs. It also allowed banks to delay classifying stressed borrowers as defaulters and also made it less profitable for banks to keep money idle with RBI by reducing the reverse repo rate (the rate it pays for funds parked with it) by 25 basis points. Friday’s measures included a Rs 50,000-crore refinance facility to banks for lending to NBFCs through a new targeted long-term repo lending operation (TLTRO 2), Rs 50,000 crore funding support for refinance institutions, and reducing rates on bank funds parked with RBI. The focused liquidity support is intended to avert a crisis in the NBFC sector.The RBI on Friday allowed finance companies to relax norms for commercial real estate projects to facilitate their completion.RBI governor Shaktikanta Das pointed out that the earlier round of liquidity provided through special repos was used by banks to fund public sector entities and large corporates. In addition to the Rs 50,000 crore to finance companies, RBI set aside another Rs 50,000 crore for farm lending, SME lending and housing finance. This is routed through a special refinance facility of Rs 25,000 crore for NABARD, Rs 15,000 crore for SIDBI and Rs 10,000 crore for the National Housing Bank. He also asked banks to skip dividend for FY20 and use the money to make up for any bad loans. Das acknowledged that banks were avoiding lending by parking close to Rs 6.9 lakh crore with the Reserve Bank of India under its reverse repo program where banks are allowed to park surplus funds. To discourage banks from doing so, RBI has cut the reverse repo rate by 25 basis points to 3.75% from 4%. Finance companies said that the measures still do not address the key problem of getting banks to lend to borrowers who are not top-rated, pointing to the huge amount parked with RBI as an example of the risk aversion of banks. While the RBI cannot force banks to lend, the measures have created the foundation to enable lenders to begin lending if the government comes out with an economic package that will facilitate lending through credit guarantees for small businesses. SBI chairman Rajnish Kumar said the central bank’s decision to allow a 90-day standstill for classifying a loan as a non-performing asset will give banks the desired operational flexibility to lend a helping hand to stressed accounts. According to Rashesh Shah, CEO, Edelweiss group, finance companies have been using up their reserves as they had to meet their obligations even as they granted moratorium to their borrowers. “With access to liquidity, NBFCs can now replenish their reserves,” he said. “Given the optimism around the economy coming back in phases and the support being extended through emergency Covid loans and other lines of credit, this will help all sectors, especially MSME and retail,” said Padmaja Chunduru, MD & CEO, Indian Bank. Announcing the measures, Das said in India, the mission is to do whatever it takes to prevent the epidemiological curve from steepening any further. The governor said that because of the epidemic and measures to contain it the macroeconomic and financial landscape has deteriorated, "precipitously in some areas, but light still shines through bravely in some others". He said these were not the last of the measures and the central bank would come up with more steps as the situation evolves. Sounding a note of optimism the governor said, “Although social distancing separates us, we stand united and resolute. Eventually, we shall cure; and we shall endure.” According to HDFC vice-chairman and CEO Keki Mistry, the measures announced by the RBI will ease the liquidity situation in the markets quite a bit. He said while the direction to banks asking them to skip dividend would result in Rs 1,000 crore of the dividend not coming in, the overall impact would be offset in a consolidated balance sheet.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/rbi-throws-2nd-rs-1l-cr-lifeline-prompts-banks-to-lend-more/articleshow/75212302.cms||---
April 18, 2020||Goa||MHA help sought for seamen’s return||Panaji: After seafarers’ wives protested outside the chief minister's official residence, the state government has sought the intervention of the ministry of home affairs (MHA) to provide necessary assistance to seafarers to disembark, complete immigration formalities and be brought to Goa by road. “Director general of shipping and additional secretary, ministry of shipping, has clarified in writing that there is no restriction for sign on/sign off of Indian seafarers in ports in India,” director for NRI affairs and nodal officer Anthony D’Souza said. Chief secretary Parimal Rai in a letter to the secretary, ministry of home affairs, on Thursday requested the ministry’s intervention for seafarers to receive assistance at the Mumbai Port for their disembarkation and after following protocols laid down by MHA for such cases to travel by road to Goa. He stated that 130 crew members of the cruise ship Karnika owned by Jalesh Cruise Mauritius Limited disembarked at Mumbai on March 31. “However the authorities concerned have allegedly only disembarked the crew who were having residence in Mumbai and nearby areas. On March 26, the CEO of the said cruise ship company wrote to the chief minister of Goa to seek permission to allow 93 crew members, who have their residence in Goa, to be allowed to move from Mumbai Port to Goa,” Rai stated. A day prior to Rai’s communication, CM Pramod Sawant in a letter to Amit Shah, suggested that the government utilise the charter flights which are coming in from various countries to evacuate their citizens from India, to bring back seafarers.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/mha-help-sought-for-seamens-return/articleshow/75212292.cms||Lisa Monteiro
April 18, 2020||Madurai||Activist in Tuticorin seeks action on rumours of his death from Covid-19||MADURAI: Seventy-one-year-old activist A Sankaralingam, 71, of Kovilpatti town in Tuticorin district has lodged a complaint with the police on Friday seeking action against miscreants who spread rumours on social media stating that he had died of Covid-19. “Last night (Thursday), a few friends called me to check if I am alright and told me that a message was going around on social media stating that I died of coronavirus. I was shocked to see the message forwarded by them. My friends shared a number from which the message was shared on WhatsApp. I have shared the message and number to the police. It was agonising for me and my family,” he said. The activist who is the founder of Fifth Pillar, an organisation that has been fighting encroachments and other issues in Kovilpatti for more than a decade, suspected that it could be the work of some miscreant affected by his activism. The Kovilpatti East police is conducting inquiries.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/activist-seeks-action-on-rumours-of-his-death-from-covid-19/articleshow/75211403.cms||---
April 18, 2020||Ahmedabad||Gujarat: ‘He ensures respectable final journeys for Covid victims’||AHMEDABAD: Pained at seeing the bodies of Covid-19 victims take a nine-foot fall into the burial pit Mohammed Sharif Kakuwala ( Astodia Bhajiawale), of the famous Astodia Bhajia house, develop a stretcher attached with 15-foot straps that can lower the dead into their graves with dignity. He has now made this special stretcher available for free at all major graveyards in the city. It began when Yasmin Hanif Pipdavala, 45, who was among the first Covid-19 causalities from Kakuwala’s neighbourhood near Ismail Pir ki dargah, died and paramedic staff carried the body to the graveyard. “I saw that the cloth used to lower body could only take the body two feet down and the paramedics had to let the body fall to the 10-foot depth of the pit of the especially deep burial pit for a Covid-19 victim. Normally the pits are about six feet deep. It pained me that even the dead from this pandemic don’t get a respectable burial.” Kakuwala contacted a local tailor and got cloth stretchers made with 15-foot straps. “I made sure that I contacted each and gave them three or four of these stretchers so people are not inconvenienced during the lockdown,” says Kakuwala. He adds that these stretchers are free for all communities using burial rites. “The entire stretcher including the straps can decompose and can handle weights of up to 150kg. I have placed orders for more of them,” says Kakuwala.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/he-ensures-respectable-final-journeys-for-covid-victims/articleshow/75211437.cms||Paul John
April 18, 2020||Ahmedabad||Covid-19 patient speaks of SVP Hospital ‘luxury’||Ahmedabad: Valay Shah, a structural designer and project management consultant, who was recovering from Covid-19 at SVP Hospital shared his experience on Twitter recently, which was verified by SVP Hospital officials. The Twitter post stated that on arrival at the hospital one is given a kit containing a bucket and a mug, toothbrush, toothpaste, shampoo, conditioner, shower gel, body lotion, razor, shaving gel, comb and disposable slippers. Though diet charts differ for patients each day, the Twitter post claimed that patients are served biscuits and tea at 6.30am and three hours later are served a breakfast which would comprise dhokla or poha or idli-sambar or upma. At 11am, moong dal soup is served. Lunch is at 1pm and includes a sweet. At 3pm, a banana or sweet is served and at 4pm it is again time for tea and biscuits or snacks. At 5pm a sandwich is served and at 6.30pm tuver dal soup is served with fresh lime. Patients get a healthy dinner at 8pm and around 11pm biscuits and tea is served. “Our clothes are changed everyday as are bedsheets and pillow covers and a team of dedicated nurses and doctors look after you 24x7,” the post says.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/covid-19-patient-speaks-of-svp-hospital-luxury/articleshow/75211430.cms||---
April 18, 2020||Goa||After all-round criticism, CM says won’t go ahead with purchase of cars||Panaji: After drawing flak from all quarters over the recent decision to raise the ceiling to buy vehicles for ministers and bureaucrats, chief minister Pramod Sawant on Friday said that even though the new circular has come out, the state government will not go ahead with the purchase of new cars. “There is no need to create noise over the circular. Finally, the government has to allow the purchase of vehicles. Even if it is a notification, it does not mean that the government is permitted to buy new cars,” Sawant said. Calling the circular “long-pending”, Sawant added that the decision was taken some time ago but notified now. “I am not mad to buy a car now,” he said. Sawant also said that he is using former chief minister Manohar Parrikar’s car. “I have not purchased a Rs 35 lakh car. It is a routine circular,” he said. The last time the ceiling was raised was in 2011, Sawant said. “The file was pending for the the last 10 years. A routine decision has been taken now,” the chief minister said. The government has come out with guidelines that allows the chief minister and speaker to purchase a vehicle with a price ceiling of Rs 35 lakh.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/after-all-round-criticism-cm-says-wont-go-ahead-with-purchase-of-cars/articleshow/75212318.cms||---
April 18, 2020||Chennai||Use rapid test kits for surveillance in Chennai: ICMR||CHENNAI: Hours after 24,000 rapid antibody testing kits from China arrived in Chennai on Friday, health department officials were still debating how they should be put to use to expand testing and expedite results. But a two-page protocol from the Indian Council of Medical Research director-general Dr Balram Bhargava directing the state to use the kits only for epidemiological studies and surveillance, particularly in hotspots, settled the issue. Now, the state will not use the kits for diagnosis. The rapid antibody test kits give the results in 30 minutes against the five hours taken by RT-PCR (real-time polymerase chain reaction) tests. If the rapid antibody test turns out to be positive, samples are sent for an RT-PCR test, where nasal and throat swabs are collected. On Friday, senior health department officials, directors of public health, medical services and medical education and senior doctors met chief secretary K Shanmugam to discuss the protocol. "Some argued that they should use the rapid test kits to screen women in labour, vulnerable population and close contacts of people who tested positive, besides all those showing symptoms of Covid-19. But there was no consensus," said a senior official. "It was then decided the state will stick to ICMR guidelines." The ICMR recommended that the gold standard frontline test for Covid-19 diagnosis is RT-PCR, which is aimed at early virus detection. Rapid antibody test can be used as a supplementary tool to assess prevalence of the disease within a specific area. "The rapid antibody test cannot replace the frontline test. It will only be of utility after a minimum of seven days of onset of symptoms. Data about these rapid tests is emerging and understanding of their utility for diagnosis is still evolving," the ICMR said, adding that the rapid antibody test has to be done under strict medical supervision. The rapid antibody test has to be used only in hotspots. While the RT-PCR test is used in people with symptoms for less than week, antibody test is done in patients showing symptoms for more than a week. In addition, the state will use the resources from the National Institute of Epidemiology to do random tests across the state to study if there is community transmission of the infection. Many senior doctors said the ICMR protocol has several disadvantages. The state ordered four lakh antibody-based tests so testing could be ramped up. "No one in a hotspot will wait for seven days after onset of symptoms. We may end up using PCR tests on every one, which will delay results and increase workload for the testing labs," a senior doctor said. Worse, during monsoon, when the fever season in the state peaks, many patients with normal flu will queue up for Covid-19 tests, they said. The state expects 3.75 lakh more rapid test kits from China. It may now have to invest more on RT-PCR test kits.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/use-rapid-test-kits-for-surveillance-icmr/articleshow/75212315.cms||---
April 18, 2020||Madurai||Sterlite Copper donates Rs 5 crore to Tamil Nadu CM’s public relief fund||MADURAI: Tuticorin-based copper smelting plant Sterlite Copper said it has contributed Rs 5 crore to the Tamil Nadu Chief Minister’s Public Relief Fund in the battle against Covid-19. The spokesperson of the company, which has remained shut for almost two years, said the amount was transferred to the relief fund account on Thursday evening. In addition, employees of Sterlite Copper also contributed their one-day salary which has helped raise an amount of Rs 15 lakh for the sake of health and sanitary workers in Tuticorin. A statement from the company said that it has tied up with 10 self-help groups to manufacture and distribute masks and personal hygiene products to 20 villages in the coastal district. Stating that 30,000 masks have been distributed to 5,200 houses, the company added that it was in the process of distributing 20,000 more masks. The company has also provided 1,300 litres of liquid hand wash, 13,000 soap bars and 1,000 bottles hand sanitizers to the villagers.tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/sterlite-donates-rs-5-crore-to-cms-public-relief-fund/articleshow/75211426.cms||---
April 18, 2020||Lucknow||UP Board class XII results in June: UP deputy CM||LUCKNOW: In wake of Covid-19 pandemic and subsequent lockdown, deputy chief minister Dinesh Sharma, who also holds the education portfolio, suggested to vice-chancellors of state universities to do away with the practice of external examiners conducting practical examinations this year. During a video-conferencing with VCs and higher education officials on Friday, he said, experts from affiliated colleges can be asked to supervise practical exams. Sharma also said, results of UP Board intermediate exams would be announced in June so that students can apply for admissions to universities as per schedule. Sharma asked VCs to conduct semester exams within 15 days after the lockdown ends. If need be, universities can decentralise evaluation centres and ensure social distancing norms while evaluating answer copies. VCs have been given a free hand to increase number of examination centres and cut down on question papers. If VCs feel, they can trim questions from existing five to four, and also reduce timings of the exam from three to two hours, the minister said. Also, the exams can be held in three shifts instead of two, to stop derailment of academic session. Sharma asked VCs to declare results by June-end or July first week and finish the admission process by July end or August first week.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/up-board-class-xii-results-in-june-dy-cm/articleshow/75212328.cms||---
April 18, 2020||Madurai||Shops in Madurai asked to display prices of essential items prominently||MADURAI: The district administration and Madurai Corporation are taking several steps to ensure that people have access to essential commodities during the lockdown period. As there were complaints of shops selling items at increased prices, the district administration has asked all the shops to display the price list prominently outside their shops. Meanwhile, help desks are to be established by the corporation in the containment zones. The city has seven containment zones, including Annaiyur, Mehaboobpalayam, Narimedu, Thapalthanthi Nagar, Madhichayam, Kuppupillai Thoppu and Gomathypuram. Earlier, bamboo barricades were erected to prevent the movement of people, but now, they have been completely sealed using tin sheets in addition to the barricades. All measures are being taken to ensure that people get the essential commodities at their doorsteps. Pamphlets with contact numbers of shops that would deliver the essential commodities have been distributed in the containment zones. However, few shops asked the residents to come and buy the goods as they are unable it to deliver them. Volunteers are helping the people get medicines. The corporation commissioner said that help desks would be established in all the seven containment zones. Meanwhile, some shops have increased the prices in many parts of the city. Urad dal, for example, is being sold at Rs 150 per kg in many shops against the March price of Rs 110. Few shops that were found selling the goods at increased prices, have also been sealed by the district administration. Meanwhile, all the shops have been asked to display the price lists outside their shops prominently. Though this order was given on Thursday, many shops had not complied with it on Friday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/shops-asked-to-display-prices-of-essential-items-prominently/articleshow/75211418.cms||---
April 18, 2020||Dehradun||Ensure PPE kits, healthy food to all health workers: HC to Uttarakhand government||NAINITAL: The Uttarakhand high court (HC) on Friday directed all the district magistrates (DMs) as well as the state government to ensure that Personal Protective Equipment (PPE) kits as well as healthy and nutritious food is made available to all the health workers working on the frontlines in the fight against novel Coronavirus. The directions from the HC came as it was hearing a public interest litigation (PIL) filed by Nainital-based lawyer Sanpreet Singh Ajmani, who appeared before the court in person (via video conferencing). The PIL had alleged that the health workers are not being provided adequate number of PPE kits to protect them from Covid-19. The petition had also said that in some instances, the doctors as well as other professionals have not been given proper food and other essential amenities. The order from the bench of Justice Manoj Kumar Tiwari and Justice Lok Pal Singh which came late on Friday also directed the DMs to make sure that the needs of medical workers, nurses and doctors are taken care of. "The state government shall ensure that all the health workers, i.e., doctors, nurses and other medical staff, who are unable to visit their respective residences, shall be provided nutritious food, items of daily need, clean apparels and accommodation in close proximity of their work places where they are attending and treating the affected patients," read the court order. It also ordered the DMs to look into the complaints of the health workers. The court added that the DMs should ensure the safety and security of the health workers and should make sure that adequate police force accompanies them whenever they go for screening or to collect samples. "They (the DMs) shall ensure the safety of medical officers, nurses and other medical staff, including drivers and attendants of the ambulances, by providing adequate police protection to them as and when they are asked to take into custody any suspected affected people for treatment to the hospital or for quarantine purposes," the order read. The court also directed the state and the administration to identify the sensitive areas where there is likelihood of violence and ensure the safety of the frontline health staff. "District magistrates shall identify the sensitive areas where there is likelihood of any violent action being taken by the public against the frontline Corona warriors, including the police personnel and to take appropriate preventive measures to ensure that no harm is caused to them." The court further added that it is the responsibility of the state government to ensure supplies of essential commodities to the areas which have been declared hotspots.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/ensure-ppe-kits-healthy-food-to-all-health-workers-hc-to-ukhand-govt/articleshow/75210045.cms||Prashant Jha
April 18, 2020||Erode||Coronavirus in Tamil Nadu: Cured? Please stay at home||CHENNAI: There was cheer as 103 patients walked out of the isolation wards on Friday. Doctors and nurses clapped and offered them baskets of fruit. But they were all given a stern warning -- stay in quarantine at home for at least a fortnight. Hospitals have so far discharged 283 patients, after two consecutive tests show negative in a span of 24 hours. These tests are done 14 days after testing positive. "They should be asymptomatic and their chest x-rays clear at the time of discharge," said Rajiv Gandhi Government General Hospital dean Dr R Jayanthi. All of them have been asked to remain in home quarantine, preferably in a separate room with a bath. "If not, the washroom has to be disinfected. They should avoid sharing common items such as towels, toiletries and utensils. They should maintain a 3-metre distance from other family members," she said. There haven’t been cases of relapse or re-infection in patients discharged from hospitals across India, but doctors and public health experts point out that South Korea and China have reported that some of their patients have tested positive after being cured. Studies point to multiple possibilities -- re-infection, relapse or varying test results that misguided doctors. As of now, doctors say they don’t have answers as studies are still underway. The simplest reason that doctors and virologists point to is case of false negatives. "Sometimes, healthcare workers may not have collected enough material for nasal or throat swab. The machine may spin a false negative at the time of discharge. There is up to 30% error in such a test. This is exactly why protocols demand two consecutive negatives," said a senior virologist at the directorate of public health. Yet, in some discharges there are chances of double false negatives. In some cases, tests may be sensitive enough to pick inactive parts of the virus in people who have been cured, said infectious diseases expert Dr Subramanian Swaminathan. This can happen when they retest after discharge. "When we do a PCR test, we look for the genetic material of the virus, in this case the RNA. We do not look for the active virus. So even after the body has recovered, the virus can leave behind debris. There is no proof this debris can infect people, but they do show up as positive cases in tests," he said. Scientists also suspect a third possibility of the virus going dormant and flaring up when the immunity levels in the body go down. There is also emerging evidence to show the virus may be destroying T-cells, like in the case of HIV, that makes it difficult to detect resurging levels of the virus because these immune cells don’t trigger the production of antibodies. "These are all still emerging evidence. We keep it simple for our patients. Stay at home, eat healthy and ensure your sugar levels and blood pressure are under control," said DPH Kolandaisamy.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/erode/cured-please-stay-at-home/articleshow/75215088.cms||---
April 18, 2020||Chennai||Coronavirus in Tamil Nadu: Cured? Please stay at home||CHENNAI: There was cheer as 103 patients walked out of the isolation wards on Friday. Doctors and nurses clapped and offered them baskets of fruit. But they were all given a stern warning -- stay in quarantine at home for at least a fortnight. Hospitals have so far discharged 283 patients, after two consecutive tests show negative in a span of 24 hours. These tests are done 14 days after testing positive. "They should be asymptomatic and their chest x-rays clear at the time of discharge," said Rajiv Gandhi Government General Hospital dean Dr R Jayanthi. All of them have been asked to remain in home quarantine, preferably in a separate room with a bath. "If not, the washroom has to be disinfected. They should avoid sharing common items such as towels, toiletries and utensils. They should maintain a 3-metre distance from other family members," she said. There haven’t been cases of relapse or re-infection in patients discharged from hospitals across India, but doctors and public health experts point out that South Korea and China have reported that some of their patients have tested positive after being cured. Studies point to multiple possibilities -- re-infection, relapse or varying test results that misguided doctors. As of now, doctors say they don’t have answers as studies are still underway. The simplest reason that doctors and virologists point to is case of false negatives. "Sometimes, healthcare workers may not have collected enough material for nasal or throat swab. The machine may spin a false negative at the time of discharge. There is up to 30% error in such a test. This is exactly why protocols demand two consecutive negatives," said a senior virologist at the directorate of public health. Yet, in some discharges there are chances of double false negatives. In some cases, tests may be sensitive enough to pick inactive parts of the virus in people who have been cured, said infectious diseases expert Dr Subramanian Swaminathan. This can happen when they retest after discharge. "When we do a PCR test, we look for the genetic material of the virus, in this case the RNA. We do not look for the active virus. So even after the body has recovered, the virus can leave behind debris. There is no proof this debris can infect people, but they do show up as positive cases in tests," he said. Scientists also suspect a third possibility of the virus going dormant and flaring up when the immunity levels in the body go down. There is also emerging evidence to show the virus may be destroying T-cells, like in the case of HIV, that makes it difficult to detect resurging levels of the virus because these immune cells don’t trigger the production of antibodies. "These are all still emerging evidence. We keep it simple for our patients. Stay at home, eat healthy and ensure your sugar levels and blood pressure are under control," said DPH Kolandaisamy.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/cured-please-stay-at-home/articleshow/75212367.cms||---
April 18, 2020||Delhi||Delhi: RWAs face pressure over Aarogya Setu app||NEW DELHI: Stressing that it is an important tool to keep oneself safe from Covid-19, officials of various districts have started urging residents to install the Aarogya Setu app on their smartphones. Though there are no specific directions from the government, officials in some districts have made it mandatory for people to install the application and roped in RWAs and market associations to get the compliance report. All educational institutions and departments have also been asked to push for installation of the app. Earlier, Prime Minister Narendra Modi had said that the tracking app was an essential tool to stymie novel coronavirus and urged citizens to download it. Developed by National Informatics Centre, the app helps citizens identify their risk from the virus. It is designed to keep the user informed in case paths are crossed with a Covid-19 positive person. A user is asked multiple questions to assess his health status. If someone’s answers suggest Covid-19 symptoms, the information is sent to the government server for taking remedial steps. The user is asked to keep the location and Bluetooth on. East district magistrate Arun Kumar Mishra said, “In east district alone, more than 20 lakh people have been contacted through various channels, from booth level officers to RWAs and market associations and even teachers and principals, to install the application. Text messages with the link of the app are being sent to mobile phones.” NITI Ayog CEO Amitabh Kant said the app has reached 50 million users in just 13 days, making it the fastest-ever globally. North DM Deepak Shinde said people are being called by the Covid warriors team urging them to install the app. “Given the manner in which the number of Covid-19 cases are increasing, the app can make lives easier for people as well as the authorities,” he added. Neha Bansal, west DM, said the key factor is that a user must keep updating his/her health status. However, those working in the field of digital rights and privacy issues believe that the app collects a lot of personal details. The privacy policy doesn’t explain who the data will be shared with. Prasanth Sugathan, voluntary legal director, Software Freedom Law Centre, India, an advocacy group on digital rights, said, “There is a trust deficit. Users should feel comfortable while downloading the app as to what data is being collected and how is it going to be used. Also, what data is going to the server and the kind of analysis that is going to happen should be known to the users.” Shinde, however, claimed that nothing extra is being asked as people install many apps on their phones and share all kinds of data. Mishra echoed his views and said, “The app is just asking for basic details that are important to know the user’s health status and risk issues. You can delete the app as soon as Covid-19 is over.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/rwas-face-pressure-over-aarogya-setu-app/articleshow/75212375.cms||Atul Mathur
April 18, 2020||Pune||Pune police seize liquor worth Rs 8.84 lakh from Koregaon Park restaurant||PUNE: The city crime branch on Thursday night raided a restaurant in Koregaon Park and seized foreign liquor and beer bottles collectively worth Rs8.84 lakh. The 57-year-old manager of the restaurant was arrested under the relevant sections of the Disaster Management Act and the Epidemic Diseases Act. A team of anti-extortion cell led by senior inspector Rajendra Mohite took the action. The police on Thursday received a tip-off that the restaurant was selling liquor during the lockdown. “We sent a decoy customer to the restaurant, who managed to purchase three bottles of beer,” Mohite said. He said the police team immediately raided the restaurant and found 332 bottles of beer, and 43 bottles of different brands of foreign liquor, collectively worth Rs1.22 lakh. “We had summoned a team of the state excise department too at the restaurant. When the team checked the godown, they found foreign liquor worth Rs7.62 lakh stored in it,” Mohite said. A case has been registered with the Koregaon Park police. The crime branch also raided a godown in Market Yard on Wednesday and seized 38 cartons of cigarettes worth Rs39 lakh. The raid was conducted based on a tip-off to constable Pandurang Wanjale. The police have arrested the godown owner for selling cigarettes illegally. Sub-inspector Nilesh Mahadik is investigating the case.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/police-seize-liquor-worth-rs8-84l-from-koregaon-park-restaurant/articleshow/75212323.cms||---
April 18, 2020||Pune||PCMC starts vegetable and fruit centres in 9 wards||PIMPRI CHINCHWAD: The Pimpri Chinchwad Municipal Corporation (PCMC) has started vegetable and fruit centres in 9 wards to ensure availability of essentials near citizens’ homes, Ajit Pawar, additional commissioner, said. The PCMC had ordered closure of large vegetable markets at Bhosari, Chikhli, Chinchwad, Akurdi, Pimpri, Thergaon, Wakad and at Moshi from April 11. Later, the civic body took a decision to operationalise one vegetable and fruit centre in each of the 64 electoral wards. Prashant Joshi, assistant commissioner, PCMC, said, "The nine centres have been set up on open ground near City Pride school in Nigdi-Pradhikaarn; Talera ground near Kalewadi bridge, Chinchwad; hockey stadium, Nehrungar; village fair ground in Bhosari; CDC ground in Purnanagar in Chikhli; Annabhau Sathe study centre, Yamunanagar in Nigdi; Kailas marriage hall and Vandevnagar in Thergaon and PWD ground in Sangvi." Namdev Dhake, the ruling party leader, said, "These centres will be open from 11am to 4pm. Vegetable vendors have been allocated spaces at a distance from each other to ensure social distancing. Thermal guns have been provided at the centres to check the body temperature of customers. Anyone with high temperature is asked to visit the nearest civic or private hospital for checkup." Sanitisation tunnels have been set up at some centres, while hand sanitisers have been provided at other centres, he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/pcmc-starts-vegetable-and-fruit-centres-in-9-wards/articleshow/75212341.cms||Siddharth Gaikwad
April 18, 2020||Madurai||In Sivaganga, agricultural activities resume with safety protocol||MADURAI: Farmers around Sivaganga have resumed works after the government relaxed the curfew for the agricultural activities and transportation of essential goods while following the precautionary measures. With water levels of rain-fed tanks in and around Sivaganga started receding, farmers are anxious to make good use of the available water. Farmers in Patharakudi village near Karaikudi in Sivaganga takes up summer cultivation based on the availability of water. Thangam a farmer said that not using the water for agriculture works would be wastage of water as the tank would dry up. Hence, they decided to take up 110 crops of traditional paddy, based on the recommendations of the Kundrakudi Agricultural Engineering department head Senthoorkumaran. The farmworkers were asked to ensure social distancing and wore masks while planting the saplings. Muthumari a worker said that it seemed strange to work with protective gears. “We usually talk a lot when we plant saplings. But today, we completed the work faster as we were distant from each other. We couldn’t gossip as usual,” she said. Landowners are providing protective equipment to the workers and have asked them to wear it before they enter the fields. Many women had sought opportunity to work in the fields, as most of them are without work now due to the lockdown. But the owners have asked them to come in limited numbers. “Usually finding workers is a problem and we don’t get a sufficient number during the harvest period. Now many are ready to work in the fields. But we are forced to restrict the numbers complying with the precautionary measures,” said Periyakaruppan a farmer.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/in-sivaganga-agri-activities-resume-with-safety-protocol/articleshow/75211450.cms||---
April 18, 2020||Madurai||Eight new cases push Covid-19 count to 305 in southern Tamil Nadu||MADURAI: Five new cases from Tenkasi district, two from Theni and one from Dindigul took the total number of Covid-19 positive cases in the southern region to 305 on Friday. Simultaneously, 35 patients were discharged from the isolation wards in the district on Friday. Special zonal officer for Covid-19 prevention and control, Karunakaran, told reporters in Tenkasi that Nanagaram and Pulliankudi had been declared hotspots as 14 people from this region had tested positive. The special zonal team comprising him, ADGP Mahesh Kumar Agarwal, Tenkasi district collector Arun Sundar Thayalan among others inspected the containment zones in Tenkasi. As many as 2.42 lakh and 800 people from 70,423 families in the district had been screened for the disease till date. As many as 2,317 people who had returned from abroad were quarantined and 2,034 had completed their 28 days of quarantine. There is no community spread in the district, he said. Among the 35 discharged from the isolation wards in the southern districts, fourteen were from Madurai, six from Sivaganga, 13 from Tirunelveli and two from Tuticorin. Of the 14 cured patients from Madurai, eight were discharged from the isolation ward at Government Rajaji Hospital. They included seven people from Virudhunagar and one from Madurai. Meanwhile, Madurai with 44 patients, Theni 43, Dindigul with 66, Tuticorin 26, Virudhunagar 17, Tirunelveli 58 and Kanyakumari with 16 are among the 22 hotspot districts in the state.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/8-new-cases-push-covid-19-count-to-305-in-southern-tn/articleshow/75211447.cms||---
April 18, 2020||Goa||Octogenarians get help, now want to travel home||Saligao: Help has arrived for an octogenarian couple and their friend who are stranded in Sangolda, but they are now counting the days when they will be able to return to their home in Mumbai. After TOI reported their plight in its edition dated April 16, the village panchayat and another NGO stepped forward to help. The organisations said food would not be in short supply during their stay in Goa, but the visitors have now appealed to the chief minister to ensure they are able to return to Mumbai. “We request the chief minister or even the collector to please help us return to Mumbai. We are desperate to leave this state as we have serious health problems,” said Salestiano Fernandes. The 84-year old, along with his wife and another friend, landed here on March 10 and are staying at their house in Sangolda. Originally scheduled to return to Mumbai on March 24, the octogenarians have been stuck all by themselves here due to the national lockdown, which is now extended till May 3. “Our organisation tried to provide them with as much food as possible. I even told them to send me a message if they needed more, but their major concern at this moment is about returning home. We cannot do anything about that,” said Donald Fernandes, trustee of Street Providence.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/octogenarians-get-help-now-want-to-travel-home/articleshow/75212334.cms||---
April 18, 2020||Madurai||Private schools in Madurai seek nod to collect fees from parents who can pay||MADURAI: Many private schools in the district have urged the state government to allow them to collect fees from those parents, who can afford to pay since it is also a struggle for them to pay their staff and handle school expenses amid the lockdown. The Tamil Nadu government had directed all schools to defer payment of any school fees. Private matriculation schools are mainly concerned with non-payment of fees pending for the third term. “Parents usually finish paying the third term fees by March or latest by April. Schools were functioning till mid-March at least, so it is not like we are asking for fees without holding classes. We are equally pressurized to furnish salaries for the staff,” said the principal of a matriculation school. Schools feel that with no relaxation on any taxes for them, they would face much difficulty in May to pay all their staff. On the other hand, CBSE schools, as per schedule have already started their next academic year. Hence, they are faced with the need to collect fees for the next year. “We have already started taking online classes for students, which has been welcomed by parents. We need the money to keep things running. We have merely asked parents to pay the regular fee. In case of difficulty or if they cannot afford, parents should formally approach us and we can sort it on a case by case basis. We are not forcing them,” said the correspondent of a CBSE school. The Private Schools Correspondents’ Confederation (PSCC) pointed out that there is no harm in the government letting at least those parents, who can afford it, to pay fees. “Without collection of fees, the entire system in private schools will collapse unless schools have an alternative financial support. Teachers and non-teaching staff in schools will be in danger of being laid off or given pay cuts, which will in turn affect their families too,” said M C Abilash, secretary, PSCC. Meanwhile, parents feel it would be unfair if only one section of parents is given lee-way for payment of fees. “In such an unpredictable situation, we are trying to save as much money as possible. Why would we pay voluntarily?,” said Srilakshmi G, a parent, whose daughter studies in a CBSE school in the city.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/pvt-schools-seek-nod-to-collect-fees-from-parents-who-can-pay/articleshow/75211464.cms||Sukshma Ramakrishnan
April 18, 2020||Madurai||Fishers quarantined in Kerala reach Colachel harbour||MADURAI: Twenty-eight fishermen, including 24 from Tamil Nadu who were under 14 days mandatory quarantine in Kollam district of Kerala, reached Colachel fishing harbour in Kanyakumari district on Friday morning. The fishermen had gone fishing from the west coast on March 13. They were detained by the marine police in Kollam while returning after fishing and taken to the Omkaram Covid care centre in Kollam on April 2 and quarantined there till April 15. Meanwhile, Kanyakumari-based Meenavar Orunginaipu Sangam represented to the district collectors and the fisheries officials in Kollam and Kanyakumari to allow the fishermen to leave following which they were released on Thursday. A fisherman on board said they had to wait in the boat till officials from the health, police and fisheries department came to receive them on Friday morning. The officials collected their basic details and screened them before allowing them to continue to be under home quarantine for 14 more days. Twenty-one fishermen who are from Kanyakumari district were sent home. The seven others - four from Kolkata, two from Tirunelveli and one from Ramanathapuram district were asked to be on the boat under quarantine due to non-availability of transport to their homes. The boat was tied at the Muttom harbour.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/fishers-quarantined-in-kerala-reach-colachel-harbour/articleshow/75211457.cms||---
April 18, 2020||Lucknow||Roll out tenders to start civil works soon: Yogi Adityanath||LUCKNOW: In preparation for business as usual once the lockdown lifts on May 4, chief minister Yogi Adityanath has directed officials to start the tendering process for works like desilting of drains and construction of roads in both rural and urban areas, and complete other formalities so that work may begin as soon as possible. Officials said that many of these works are usually carried out ahead of monsoon and in order to ensure that there is no inconvenience once it starts raining, all delays in awarding work should be avoided. “Government offices are set to open from April 20 and there is time till May 3 to carry out a lot of work online which will help kickstart the economy once the lockdown hopefully lifts on May 4. Online processes for civil works can easily be processed till then,” said a senior government official. Meanwhile, directing officials to keep a strict control over the roughly 300 hotspots identified in the state, the CM said that district magistrates and senior police officials should carry out regular inspections of their areas. Additional chief secretary (home) Awanish Awasthi said that hotspots were identified in three phases, with the maximum of 179 in 15 districts that were marked in the first phase. There are almost 24 lakh people living in the hotspots who are now under quarantine. “The CM has said that senior officers should supervise every hotspot. On Thursday, DMs and SPs or commissioners visited all the hotspots in their respective areas. The CM has issued instructions that every house in the hotspot area must be sanitized. Doorstep deliveries should be strictly monitored. There should be no shortage of ration, milk, vegetables, fruit and medicines,” he said. Awasthi revealed that 45 FIRs have been registered against foreign nationals who were part of the Tablighi Jamaat, several members of which who attended the Markaz in Delhi in March have tested positive for Covid-19. He said that 259 have been jailed and their passports have been seized. Meanwhile, to ensure that jails were not overcrowded at this time, Awasthi said that 13,484 prisoners have been released on either parole or bail. The government had also released 425 juveniles.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/roll-out-tenders-to-start-civil-works-soon-cm/articleshow/75212354.cms||---
April 18, 2020||Hubballi||State cabinet to decide on relaxing norms for industries||Dharwad: In the cabinet meeting to be held on April 20, the state government will decide on relaxing lockdown norms for industrial activities. The meeting will discuss the consequences of the lockdown on the economy in general and industries in particular. Minister for large and medium industries Jagadish Shettar on told TOI that the relaxation will come with conditions of maintaining social distance, hygiene and prevention of unnecessary movement of people. He said the industrial units have paid their employees salary for March. The Central government has to take a decision on paying the salaries in future from ESI and EPF. The Centre, keeping the interest of people of the country, will take a decision. The state cabinet will discuss about payment for electricity, water and other basic facilities and also about waiving interest on loans, he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hubballi/state-cabinet-to-decide-on-relaxing-norms-for-industries/articleshow/75206978.cms||---
April 18, 2020||Dehradun||Three more, including a 9-month-old, test Covid-19 positive in Uttarakhand; tally now 40||DEHRADUN: With three new cases of Covid-19, the tally of positive cases in Uttarakhand reached 40 on Friday. While one of the new cases is a female doctor from Army, the other is a nine-month-old infant from Bhagat Singh Colony, which was earlier sealed by the administration after three Covid-19 cases were reported from the area. The third case is a Jamaat member from Nainital. Dr NS Khatri, nodal officer of Government Doon Medical College (GDMC) told TOI that the father of the nine-month-old baby had already tested positive and is undergoing treatment at Doon Hospital. The child is being kept in a separate isolation ward along with his mother who has tested negative but the hospital administration will again send her samples for testing to ascertain the status.According to sources from the office of Director General (DG) health, the female doctor from the military hospital in Dehradun had been to Lucknow for training in March and she had returned to the city on April 9. "She had complained of Covid-19-like symptoms on April 15 when her samples were sent for testing. We have already alerted the Army unit in Lucknow where she had been for training. We are also tracking the people she had come in contact with to ascertain where she got the infection from," said the official, adding that the third patient is a Jamaat member currently under treatment at Susheela Tiwari Hospital, Haldwani. The health department had conducted 2,831 tests till April 17 and reports of 2,420 cases turned out to be negative. The swab sample reports of 371 cases are still pending while total 227 samples were sent on Friday itself. Meanwhile, the administration has opened the premises of the Forest Research Institute (FRI) which was sealed after three trainee Indian Forest Service (IFS) officers undergoing training there were found to be Covid-19- positive last month after they returned from a foreign study tour.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/3-more-including-a-9-month-old-test-covid-19-ve-in-ukhand-tally-now-40/articleshow/75210126.cms||Ishita Mishra
April 18, 2020||Ludhiana||ACP’s wife, driver, SHO and ASI contract disease, isolated||Ludhiana: Four contacts of a coronavirus-infected Ludhiana assistant commissioner of police tested positive for the disease on Friday. They include his wife, driver, and ASI and a sub-inspector-ranked SHO. His constable-ranked driver had left for his house in Ferozepur, where the administration has now quarantined him, on April 13 — the day the ACP, 52, was confirmed to have contracted the virus. Since then, 15 of the cop’s contacts, including his wife, son, three SHOs and other cops, were home quarantined and their samples collected. The ACP had started feeling unwell after his duty at main vegetable market, near Jalandhar Bypass, in March-end. The sub-inspector, too, was deployed there. After a two-day leave, the ACP along with the sub-inspector held a meeting with arhtiyas and then went to a locality on Bahadur Ke Road to seal it. The sub-inspector said, “My test report is positive, though I don’t have any symptoms. I was also deputed at the main vegetable market along with the ACP in March-end. I was home quarantined after the ACP tested positive. But before that, I had visited many places, especially those under my jurisdiction, met senior officials of our department and attended meetings with them, too. I had also attended a meeting of mandi board and met their chairperson. There was a meeting with arhtiyas, too.” “I am worried for my contacts, including my family. My parents are diabetic patients. I had also come in contact with my 80-year-old grandfather and 4-year-old nephew,” she added.The sub-inspector and the ACP’s wife will be admitted to private hospitals. The ASI, 46, has also tested positive on Friday. About his driver, who had returned to his home town, Ferozepur DC Kulwant Singh said, “It has been identified that a vehicle of Ludhiana administration dropped every gunmen of the ACP to their houses after collecting their samples. This is a clear violation of protocol.”“The constable has been admitted to civil hospital. He came in contact with 10 persons, including four of his family members. The rest are his relatives in the same village,” the DC added. ‘Worried about son’ The constable said, “I was his gunman and the other constable, who is from Sangrur, his driver. After the ACP tested positive, we went to his residence. But two officials asked us to leave, saying we will infect others. Then we called our seniors, who asked us to go to our hometowns. Besides, there was no place to get food from, as when we went to Police Lines mess, everyone objected to our going there. Then I, along with another constable who is from Moga, came to Ferozepur in his car. Since then, I have home quarantined myself. On Friday, I was admitted to civil hospital. I won’t get good diet here. I contracted the disease while I was on duty. I will recover if I am provided a good diet and a healthy atmosphere. I am worried for my 1.5-year-old son, who I met on reaching Ferozepur.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/acps-wife-driver-sho-and-asi-contract-disease-isolated/articleshow/75210145.cms||Payal Dhawan
April 18, 2020||Madurai||Madurai: Sanitary staff vulnerable to medical waste||MADURAI: With Madurai being declared a Covid-19 hotspot and district collector Dr T G Vinay making it mandatory for the public to wear masks while venturing out, questions are being raised about the safe disposal of the masks and other related medical waste. Despite being armed with masks and gloves, sanitary workers, who are burdened with handling such waste, remain vulnerable. Health officials assert that while sanitary workers and health workers who make door-to-door visits would not need personal protective equipment (PPEs) like doctors, they should ensure proper use of masks and gloves given to them. "There is no fixed rule but as per protocol all disposable triple-layered masks used by health workers need to be disinfected and burnt after use. Else, they could be disinfected and dropped at the nearest PHC where biomedical waste is collected and later sent for incineration," said a senior district health official. Workers who use cloth masks must disinfect and wash them after every use. The corporation’s sanitary workers who have to collect everyday garbage and carry out disinfection work, are provided masks and gloves, according to district authorities. In the containment areas, all houses have been provided special green-coloured bags for people to discard masks or any such medical wear. The bags are then collected by workers. “All Covid-19 medical waste is collected in such bags which are sent for incineration. Workers are so far not at risk this way since they are using protective wear. There are also plans to get these bags for all houses since many more will be using masks from now on," said a sanitation officer. However, one concern for the sanitary workers has been picking masks disposed carelessly on road sides. Though precautionary measures appear to be in place, the ground reality is that many workers do not strictly follow all measures or are short of supplies. In fact, some were of the opinion that gloves and masks were uncomfortable to wear. The workers, particularly elderly workers, need to be sensitized on the importance of protective wear. "We are not used to it, so sometimes old habits kick in. Also, we often have to safeguard masks and gloves because we won’t get another, so we carefully use them for a few more occasions," said a 54-year-old sanitary worker.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/sanitary-staff-vulnerable-to-med-waste/articleshow/75211470.cms||Sukshma Ramakrishnan
April 18, 2020||Pune||Pune: Three more with co-morbid conditions dead, 68 test positive in single day||PUNE: Three more critically-ill patients diagnosed with the Covid-19 infection succumbed to associated complications at Sassoon hospital on Friday, taking the contagion casualty count in Pune Metropolitan Region (PMR) to 48 so far. They had some or the other underlying medical condition. Of the 48 casualties recorded in the PMR, 41 took placed at Sassoon hospital alone. The remaining deaths occurred at civic-run Naidu hospital and designated private hospitals in Pune and Pimpri Chinchwad. Besides, 68 fresh cases of the infection were registered on Friday, which is the highest single-day positive case count recorded in the PMR so far. Of them, 57 cases were recorded in the PMC limits. Six residents of Khadki tested positive for Covid-19 on Friday, taking the case count in the area to eight so far. Pramod Singh, Khadki Cantonment Board CEO said all the six patients were the family members of a positive individual undergoing treatment at Aundh hospital. A state-level committee visited the Sassoon hospital on Friday to review the rising deaths of infected patients at the facility. On Thursday, the hospital’s dean, Ajay Chandanwale, was transferred for failing to rein in the Covid-19 casualties. Chandanwale took charge of the deputy director of the state's Department of Medical Education and Research (DMER) in Mumbai on Friday. TOI had earlier reported that surge in casualties at Sassoon hospital was mainly because patients having co-morbid conditions self-delayed in seeking medical care. The committee will hold a meeting with the district administration on Saturday to lay out the plan for reining in deaths in the PMR.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/3-more-with-co-morbid-conditions-dead-68-test-positive-in-single-day/articleshow/75212369.cms||Umesh Isalkar
April 18, 2020||Vadodara||Covid-19 man booked for travelling to Surat||Vadodara: A coronavirus patient in Chhota Udepur was booked at Bodeli police station for travelling to Surat in his car to pick up his wife and mother from his uncle’s house during lockdown. Mohsin Khatri, who was third person in Chhota Udepur to test positive for coronavirus, had not come in contact with the first two patients. He told health officials that he had not travelled anywhere. However, police investigation and his call detail records revealed that he had travelled to Mora Bhagal locality in Rander area of Surat on March 29 to his uncle’s house to pick his mother, wife and sister-in-law and their children. By then Rander had been declared a red zone due to increase in number of cases there. After waiting there for an hour, Khatri started for Bodeli. On the way, he dropped his sister-in-law and her daughters at Palej and continued towards Bodeli. Around 11 days later, when Khatri’s mother’s health was not fine, he took her to a private hospital in Bodeli from where he was referred to community health centre. At the health centre, Khatri too complained that he had cold and fever so the mother-son duo was sent to Chhota Udepur general hospital where their samples were collected for coronavirus test. On April 11, while Khatri’s mother turned out to be negative, Khatri’s report came positive. Police said he violated public notification by travelling to Surat’s red zone area during lockdown and affected his elder brother and his wife too. “As of now, he is undergoing treatment at the hospital and hence we have not arrested him,” said a police official.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/covid-19-man-booked-for-travelling-to-surat/articleshow/75209425.cms||---
April 18, 2020||Pune||12 villages sealed after four +ve from Pune's Kirkitwadi||PUNE: The Pune rural authorities have sealed 12 more villages after four cases were reported from the Kirkitwadi area. The authorities have drawn up a containment plan, along the lines of the Manjari pattern — sealing all entry/exit points to the villages, sanitizing vehicles from the city, and a house-to-house survey — for the villages of Kirkitwadi, Jambhulwadi, Wagholi, Malkhed, Avhalwadi, Bavadi, Kesnand, Nanded, Khadakwasla, Sonapur, Vardade, and Kolewadi. The restriction came into effect at midnight on Friday. In the Pune rural areas, there are five containment zones, of which Manjari — the first village to be sealed — is one. These twelve villages have been divided into four zones, depending on the area,” Pune zilla parishad CEO Ayush Prasad told TOI. Block development officer Prashant Shirke said apart from barricades sealing the villages, they have designated 50-60 people to mark each of these areas and check the population. “For Kirkitwadi, Khadakwasla and JP Nagar, we have mapped out 6,600 households with 26,000 people. Survey teams have been designated to check each household,” Shirke said. To ensure supplies of essentials, the zilla parishad has tied up with the grocery shops. “Contact numbers have been released to ensure home delivery of essentials, while those living in shelter homes will be provided rations,” Shirke said. “Basically, people should not come out of their houses in the containment zone. This will be strictly enforced, as it was done in Manjari, where we been able to prevent the spread. Those with symptoms will be referred to the hospital. We will also ensure people wear marks as per the government order,” Shirke added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/12-villages-sealed-after-four-ve-from-kirkitwadi/articleshow/75212412.cms||Nisha Nambiar
April 18, 2020||Kolkata||West Bengal: Maheshtala facility sends 38 staffers to quarantine||KOLKATA: A private hospital at Mollar Gate under Maheshtala Municipality has sent 38 staffers, including doctors and nurses, to quarantine after a patient who was admitted in the hospital on April 10 tested positive to Covid-19. While the patient was sent to MR Bangur, the hospital has not shifted other patients and is waiting for the health department order. “We sent him to M R Bangur on April 12. On April 15, we came to know that he was Covid-positive and decided to stop all activities. None was allowed to enter or leave the hospital,” a source said. The patient is stated to be stable. The 350-bed facility is a joint venture of Maheshtala Municipality and a private group. “We cannot close it without making an alternative arrangement. The staffers who came in contact with the patient have been sent to quarantine. A sanitisation process is underway,” Maheshtala Municipality chairman Dulal Das said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/maheshtala-facility-sends-38-staffers-to-quarantine/articleshow/75211489.cms||Saibal Gupta
April 18, 2020||Goa||Goa: ‘Class XII exam dates will be announced 5 days before’||PANAJI: Goa Board of Secondary and Higher Secondary Education (GBSHSE) on Friday said the rescheduled dates for the Class XII exam will be announced five days prior to the exam. Similarly, the new schedule for the Class X exam will be announced 10 days before the examination. The board has also asked students not to fall prey to any rumours in the meantime. “The board is assessing the current situation and is sensitive towards the anxiety of the students, parents and the schools. In view of the queries raised by stakeholders, the board has informed all schools to follow one time measure. For classes IX and XI, the student with ‘needs improvement’ remark in result the column is eligible for supplementary examination,” the board said in its circular. The board has also said that the new dates for the Class X and XII exams will scheduled “by keeping all aspects related to entrance exams and admission dates, in mind. It is further informed that the board has not been able to carry out assessment work of Class XII due to the present situation. Chief moderator, moderators and examiners shall be informed 2-3 days prior to the actual commencement of work,” the board circular states. Heads of schools have been told that teachers’ services may be requisitioned for the examination work and to see to it that teachers keep themselves available for the same. “Non compliance of the same shall attract strict action,” the board has said. The circular reads, “All stakeholders are hereby advised not to fall prey to rumours and rely only on the official announcements made by the board on its official website.” GBSHSE has also told schools to inform all the teachers, students and staff members about the need to take precautions against Covid-19 in the interest of safety of all. “Heads of institutions are informed to upload brief report of initiatives taken in the interest of students by their institutions during lockdown period on the web portal meant for recognition of schools (like online classes, Fit India movement, virtual classrooms, upgradation of skills like reading-writing, drawing-painting, cooking, yoga, indoor games, gardening or any other activity,” the board circular states.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/class-xii-exam-dates-will-be-announced-5-days-before/articleshow/75212431.cms||---
April 18, 2020||Lucknow||UP govt offices to reopen on Monday, but with reduced staff||LUCKNOW: All state government offices are set to open from April 20, though with reduced staff strength. Officers from the post of chief secretary to section officers will have to attend office regularly while duties for group C and D employees will be fixed through a roster. According to an order issued by chief secretary RK Tiwari on Friday, all additional chief secretaries, principal secretaries, secretaries, special secretaries, joint secretaries, deputy secretaries, under-secretaries and section officers will have to attend office regularly from Monday. “All department heads, office heads, and groups A and B officers will remain present. Up to 33% of group C and D staff should be called as per requirement. For this, departmental heads should make a roster system. It is advised that workers are called every alternate day but it should be ensured that this does not hamper work in any way,” the order says. Those employees who will be working from home have been directed to stay connected with office through phone and computer. A similar order was issued ahead of lockdown, when, in an effort to implement social distancing, the government had decided to call minimal staff to office. For working of district administration and treasuries, employees will be called as per requirement. For offices located in hotspots, the decision will be taken by the district administration concerned. Employees living in hotspots will be required to get passes issued from the district administration for travel to workplace. Meanwhile, police, home guard, civil defence, firefighting personnel, emergency services, disaster management, jail and local bodies can continue to function without any changes. Work will also continue without any change for forest department staff which is concerned with operation of zoological gardens, management of nurseries, firefighting and irrigation in forests, patrolling and operation of essential vehicles. The order is not applicable to such workers who are involved in emergency and essential services concerned with the prevention and management of Covid-19.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/govt-offices-to-reopen-on-mon-but-with-reduced-staff/articleshow/75212408.cms||---
April 18, 2020||Ludhiana||Day after test, 58-yr-old Covid-19 patient dies||Ludhiana: A 58-year-old man, who was working as a kanungo in the revenue department and had tested positive for Covid-19 on Thursday, died on Friday afternoon. He had been admitted to the isolation ward of Dayanand Medical College and Hospital since Tuesday and passed away at 2.30pm on Friday. He was hospitalised at 12.30pm on Tuesday, his sample was taken on April 15, and the result arrived the next evening. Medical superintendent Dr Sandeep Sharma said, “His health deteriorated on Friday afternoon and he died due to sudden cardiac arrest. He had visited the hospital with complaints of weeklong fever and breathlessness. He lived near community health centre, Payal block, and had not gone to office since March 22. He had no travel history. He is survived by his father, mother, a son and a daughter. His mother-in-law had also stayed at his house for some time.” His son said, “He had been at home since March 18. All of a sudden he complained of breathlessness and was admitted to the isolation ward of DMCH.”With this, 17 positive cases have been reported in the city so far, including four deaths. Deaths of three womenMarch 30: A 42-year-old woman from Amarpura Mohalla was referred to Rajindra Hospital, Patiala, on March 29. She could not be saved a day later and her body was sent to Ludhiana. She had been visiting the OPD of Ludhiana civil hospital since March 24 for flu-like symptoms, but was never tested. It was only on March 29, when her condition deteriorated, that she was admitted to the hospital and then referred to Patiala, as there was no ICU at the Ludhiana facility. April 6: A 69-year-old woman from Shimlapuri with no contact history with a Covid-19 patient was the second casualty. She was admitted to Fortis Hospital, Ludhiana, at 10.09pm on March 31 and she breathed her last in its isolation ward at 2.30pm on April 6. She had tested positive on April 2. She had stayed with her niece in Mohali from March 17 to March 31 and had commuted there by a bus. However, she had started showing symptoms of cough and breathlessness from March 23. Eight days later, she took an ambulance from Mohali all alone and got herself admitted to Fortis Hospital, Ludhiana. April 8: A 52-year-old woman from Mehal Kalan, Barnala, was admitted to Fortis Hospital with Covid-19-like symptoms and was diagnosed with pneumonia at the time of admission on April 6, when her X-ray was taken. She was then shifted to the isolation ward. On April 7, she was put on a ventilator, but she died the next morning. Virus bulletin The positive cases include nine men and eight women. The virus has so far claimed the lives of one man and three women.Age group : Casualties10-20: 0 20-30: 0 30-40: 0 40-50: 150-60: 2 60-70: 1 Total : 4 Age group : Positive cases0-10: 010-20: 220-30: 430-40:140-50:150-60: 660-70 : 170-80: 2Total:17||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/day-after-test-58-yr-old-covid-19-patient-dies/articleshow/75210148.cms||Mehak Jain
April 18, 2020||Chandigarh||Dist mandi officer tests positive for Covid-19||Ludhiana: Fifty-four-year-old woman district mandi officer has tested Covid-19 positive. She had held many a meeting with the ACP (north), who tested positive on April 13. On April 4, she had met him at the Sabzi Mandi. More persons, including deputy commissioner Pradeep Agrawal and SDM (east) Amarjeet Singh Bains, who were at a meeting with her are also at risk. She had also met officials of procurement agencies, like PUNSUP, PUNGRAIN, FCI, besides Arhtiya Association members, deputy district mandi officer, market committee association members, Khanna, and many others. She lived with her son, whose swab will be taken. Intensive tracing has been started and all her contacts from the past 15 days would be located, said DC Pradeep Agrawal. ACP (central) Waryam Singh, ACP (financial crime) Harpal Singh and ADCP-I Gurpreet Sikand also gave their throat swabs on Friday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/dist-mandi-officer-tests-positive-for-covid-19/articleshow/75210159.cms||Mehak Jain
April 18, 2020||Dehradun||Without foreign students, it’s shavasana for Rishikesh’s yoga centres||HARIDWAR: Rishikesh, considered the world capital of yoga, has been badly hit by the pandemic as several yoga centres now face imminent closure. “It is unlikely that our students, mostly foreigners, would be returning for at least a year. In the meanwhile, paying steep rents to stay afloat is not feasible,” said the owner of a yoga centre in the temple town. There are more than 350 yoga centres in Rishikesh, Tapovan and Lakshman Jhula areas; out of which, around 300 are being run on rented properties. Almost all the centres are dependent on yoga learners who come to Rishikesh from across the world, especially from US, Canada, Europe, China, Japan and Central Asia. Swami Sudheer Anand, who has been running a yoga centre in Rishikesh for the past several years, told TOI, “We have decided to shut down our centre in the wake of the outbreak of novel coronavirus as we are not able to pay Rs 3 lakh monthly rent. It is a very difficult decision for us but we have no other option as our industry is linked to international tourism which will take at least a year to revive.” Even those who had moved to foreign shores to teach yoga from the city also face an uncertain future. Local yoga teacher Akhilesh Bhatt said, “Many young yoga teachers from here have moved to foreign countries. But after Covid-19 pandemic, they are worried about their future. Because social distancing is going to be the norm there for a few years. Even back home, job opportunities are going to dry up because of imminent closure the yoga centres face in the absence of foreign students.” Similarly, adventure tourism activities, like rafting and camping, is also affected due to the lockdown. The rafting season here starts from March 15. Local rafting association’s chief Rishikesh Dinesh Bhatt said, “Our three-month rafting season starts from March 15, in which, we earn sufficient for a year. There are around 500 rafting and camping firms in the region and each employs 10-15 persons. We are providing ration and money to our employees so far. But we do not know how we will survive throughout the year.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/without-foreign-students-its-shavasana-for-rishikeshs-yoga-centres/articleshow/75210162.cms||MS Nawaz
April 18, 2020||Goa||‘Take steps to repatriate seafarers’||Panaji: The state government should take immediate steps to repatriate around 8,000 Goan seafarers, MGP demanded on Friday. “Chief minister Pramod Sawant, Union Ayush minister Shripad Naik and MPs should make efforts to bring back the seafarers,” party leader Ramkrishna Dhavalikar said He said the state government should ensure facilities are in place to quarantine the seafarers upon their arrival. Speaking on the lockdown, Dhavalikar said that with pharmaceutical industries having commenced manufacturing, the state government should also allow ancillaries to start operations. Referring to the Centre’s new guidelines on the agricultural sector, he said the government should allow entry of harvesting machinery and some workers from outside the state. He also demanded Rs 50 as the minimum support price for cashew farmers, while also calling for an increase in the support price for black pepper.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/take-steps-to-repatriate-seafarers/articleshow/75212437.cms||---
April 18, 2020||Hubballi||Fraudster reminds man of his forgotten bank account, steals Rs 1 lakh||Hubballi: Cyberpolice have registered two complaints of online fraud. In the first case, Venkatesh Muttanavar lost Rs 1 lakh to cybercriminals. According to police, Venkatesh received a call from an unknown number and subsequently was tricked into parting with an OTP. The caller, introducing himself as a bank employee, offered to help Venkatesh in reactivating his deactivated account in the bank. Only after getting the call that Venkatesh remembered having the savings account, which had a balance of Rs 1.56 lakh. Soon after getting OTP, the caller allegedly transferred Rs 1 lakh to another account, police added. In another case, A L N Prasanna Narasaiah lost Rs 88,810 to online fraudsters. Police said the victim had received messages from the bank about the amount debited from his account. As Prasanna had not used his card for any transaction of late, police are investigating as to how the fraudsters managed to steal the cash. Two held for threatening hosp staff The suburban police arrested two men for allegedly threatening the staff of a private hospital on Wednesday. According to police, the accused — Gangadhar Perur, a resident of Krishnagiri Colony in Anand Nagar of Old Hubballi area, and Prashant Illuri of Vallabhbhai Nagar in the same area — had threatened the staff demanding free health service, failing which they would tarnish the image of the hospital. The duo was arrested following a complaint by one of the staff members. They have been sent in judicial custody.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hubballi/fraudster-reminds-man-of-his-forgotten-bank-account-steals-rs-1-lakh/articleshow/75207046.cms||---
April 18, 2020||Lucknow||UP government sets up cell for revival of industries after lockdown||LUCKNOW: UP government has set up a revival and facilitation cell to provide assistance to industrialists and exporters once the lockdown is lifted. The commissioner (industries) will head the cell while two joint commissioners and an assistant commissioner have been appointed for its operations. Principal secretary (MSME) Navneet Sehgal said, “Lockdown has made a huge impact on industry. Once it is lifted, the cell will provide necessary assistance in GST refunds, clearances and no-objection certificates, among other issues.” The decision came after Sehgal met industry representatives on Friday evening to discuss issues facing MSMEs in the state. In a video conference organised by FICCI, several industrialists raised the issue of salaries to their employees and said most MSME units would not be able to pay salaries in April due to cash flow problem. They said to start industries again, it was crucial that labourers were brought back from villages. CMD, GINNI International Ltd, Sharad Jaipuria said: “There are more than 2 crore manufacturing units with a 14% share in UP’s GDP. We hope the Centre will help with package for marginalized sector, trade and MSMEs by 15-20%. ” Laghu Udhyog Bharti president Janak Bhatia said while salaries had been paid for March, payments would be difficult in April. “Workers should be considered to be under medical leave under ESIC registration. Units should also be charged only minimum electricity bill as no units functioned in April,” he said. President, Indian Industries Association, Pankaj Kumar said in a survey done with IIA members, it was found that 90% of MSME units had already closed while 72% did not receive any assistance from banks. “MSMEs are facing liquidity crisis.Without government support, only 30% of the wages can be given to workers in April. After Covid-19 crisis is over, it will take at least a year for MSMEs to revive. It will help us if PSUs clear their dues,” he said. Sehgal said the issue of cash flow had been already considered and the government was working on a plan to address the problems. “We have already suggested to the Centre that bank limits should be extended to ensure cash flow. ” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/govt-sets-up-cell-for-revival-of-industries-after-lockdown/articleshow/75212428.cms||Neha Lalchandani
April 18, 2020||Ahmedabad||Gujarat HC slams crowds on curfew break||AHMEDABAD: The Gujarat high court on Friday expressed grave concern over the thronging of people in the curfew-bound areas of the Walled City during the hours curfew is relaxed. The HC said such overcrowding is putting public health in jeopardy during the Covid-19 pandemic. During the hearing of a suo motu PIL supervising the Covid-19 preparedness and lockdown implementation, the Chief Justice questioned the government law officers on how so many people came out in market areas during curfew relaxation and about the complete disregard to the regulations of social distancing. “Such a situation will spoil all the efforts put in by the administration,” the chief justice said and asked the state government to take all measures to ensure that such situation does not repeat. The HC was of the opinion that such overcrowding of people will defeat the purpose of the lockdown and curfew itself. To the HC’s query, the state government submitted that the chaos took place during the first hour of the three-hour curfew relaxation. It submitted that the relaxation could be granted in a phased manner and such a step should bring the situation under control. The law officer ensured the court that such overcrowding will not take place in future in areas where curfew has been imposed, a government law officer said. The government has imposed curfew for six days in seven police stations of the city, mainly covering the Walled City areas and Danilimda, which are the hotspots of coronavirus positive cases. Meanwhile, various PILs raised concerns about distribution of food among the poor and migrant workers. A PIL filed by various NGOs highlighted problems of migrant labourers, who are stuck because of the nationwide lockdown and unemployment. It cited examples of nearly 90,000 sugarcane workers, the tribals known as Koitas, who could not return to their native in Maharashtra. It claimed that the government aid also does not reach to them. This PIL also highlighted the plight of nearly 2 lakh construction workers stranded in Hazira, where government relief has not reached. The state government ensured the petitioner NGOs and the court that it will take all measures to reach out to these workers and take help of these NGOs to solve the problem. One of the PILs complained about the banks’ announcement of three-month moratorium on EMIs and submitted that without waiving interest, the scheme is meaningless. The HC said that it will hear the issue later.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/hc-slams-crowds-on-curfew-break/articleshow/75211504.cms||---
April 18, 2020||Ludhiana||Send your meter reading to get bill or pay average||Ludhiana: After striking the right chord with the consumers by launching a scheme of paying interest on advance payments, the Punjab State Power Corporation Limited (PSPCL) has launched another consumer-friendly step called “meter reading on trust”. Under this initiative, which has presently been launched for commercial and small power (SP) industrial consumers only, no meter reading will be taken by the PSPCL staff. Instead, the consumers will themselves upload their meter reading on the website of PSPCL and bills will be generated on the basis of their self-declaration. In case the consumers are not able to do so, then average bills will be issued.Chief engineer of central zone, Ludhiana, Daljit Inderpal Singh Grewal said, “Due to lockdown, our staff cannot go for meter reading. So, under this consumer-friendly initiative, SP and commercial meter owners close to billing dates can upload their meter reading on PSPCL website by following simple steps. Bills will be generated as per reading uploaded by the consumer and actual reading will be taken after the lifting of lockdown. In case customers are not able to upload the readings, average bills, which will be 20% in case of monthly billing and 40% in case of bimonthly, will be calculated on the consumption of same months last year. In case of average bills too, the actual readings will be taken after the lifting of lockdown.”About domestic consumers, he said, “Their average bills will be generated as per consumption of same months last year. Bills of medium supply (MS) and large supply (LS) industrial consumers will be issued as per actual reading only.” Welcoming the move, Vinod Thapar, chairman of the Knitwear Club, said, “This is a good initiative, but it’s not possible for every consumer to access PSPCL website and upload the reading. Not everyone is so tech savvy. Therefore, we request the power corporation to allow us to send the meter reading via SMS or phone calls as well.”Dinesh Kalra, president of Ludhiana Business Forums, said, “The meter reading on trust is a great step, but the decision to exclude large and domestic consumers is not good. This facility should be available to all categories of consumers and those who do not want to avail should be sent the average bills only.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/send-your-meter-reading-to-get-bill-or-pay-average/articleshow/75210188.cms||Mohit Behl
April 18, 2020||Goa||Defer circular until pandemic eases: MGP||Panaji: Deriding the state government’s decision to increase the price ceiling for purchase of new vehicles for ministers and bureaucrats, MGP demanded that the circular to this effect should be deferred until the Covid-19 pandemic eases out. Senior party leader Ramkrishna ‘Sudin’ Dhavalikar said that new government vehicles should not be purchased till December due to the ongoing global health crisis. “When the government is borrowing money to run the state, how can new vehicles be purchased?” he asked. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/defer-circular-until-pandemic-eases-mgp/articleshow/75212424.cms||---
April 18, 2020||Jaipur||250 UP buses for Kota students, Gehlot wants others to follow||Kota/Agra/Patna: The #SendUsBackHome social media campaign launched on Tuesday by coaching students stuck in Kota eventually bore results after around 250 buses of Uttar Pradesh government reached the city to take back its students on Friday. Chief minister Ashok Gehlot called upon other state governments to follow the UP government and arrange means to take back students to their respective states. Gehlot tweeted, “As the UP govt called back students of UP living in #Kota #Rajasthan, it can also be done for students from other states. Students in Kota can be sent to their home states on the consent of the concerned state govt so that these young boys & girls do not panic or feel depressed. (sic)”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/250-up-buses-for-kota-students-gehlot-wants-others-to-follow/articleshow/75212444.cms||---
April 18, 2020||Hyderabad||Telangana: 55-year-old ailing woman turned away by 5 hospitals||HYDERABAD: A week after the death of Nagaram’s young woman who was turned away by 10 hospitals on suspicions that she might have contracted the coronavirus, an automobile workshop owner faced a similar predicament when doctors in five hospitals, including the nodal Gandhi Hospital, sent him away. Asif Khan made rounds to five hospitals, including Osmania General Hospital, after his 55-year-old mother fell sick. Khan took his mother, who was suffering from high blood pressure and lung infection, to the hospitals from Thursday afternoon and made rounds till midnight but in vain. “No hospital was willing to admit her,” Khan, who resides in Pahadishareef, said. “Her health began deteriorating at around 4 pm. We first went to two private hospitals. One of them gave some medication and asked us to go to OGH where the doctors told us to go to Gandhi Hospital. As all the coronavirus patients are being treated there, the security staff at Gandhi Hospital asked us to go elsewhere. Finally, I tooky my mother to another private hospital. But, the security guards said doctors were not available at that hour,” he said. With no success, Khan came back home. “Even on Friday morning, hospitals turned us down, saying there are no doctors available,” he said. A desperate Asif tried his family doctor, who had closed his clinic, on his phone which was switched off. “We could reach him after some time. He gave us the medicines,” Khan’s brother said. “In case of emergencies, the hospitals should admit patients. Where will they go,” he wondered.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/55-year-old-ailing-woman-turned-away-by-5-hosps/articleshow/75212432.cms||---
April 18, 2020||Pune||Better awareness boosts health survey in Kondhwa||PUNE: The civic administration has finally managed to convince a large section of Kondhwa residents to cooperate with its door-to-door health survey in the wake of the Covid-19 outbreak. Until a week ago, Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC)-appointed health workers carrying out door-to-door survey in Kondhwa were met with stony silence and, in some cases, outright hostility. But concerted efforts by corporators, religious leaders, police and social activists helped the civic body conduct the survey at 33, 525 houses and screen 1,25,55 people. PMC zonal medical officer Dinesh Bhende told TOI, “The resistance of people in pockets such as Meethanagar, Bhagyodayanagar and Shivnerinagar has reduced. People have become more conscious of their health after several tested positive for coronavirus.” Announcements have been made on public address systems that the survey had nothing to do with the Citizenship (Amendment) Act, 2019 (CAA) , National Registrar of Citizens (NRC) and the National Population Register (NPR), against which the residents have been protesting. Wanowrie-Ramtekdi ward medical officer Irfan Lohare said, “We have started re-visiting the families opposed to the survey. They are checking our cards and sharing necessary information. Their initial fear that the survey was about CAA, NCR and NPR is gone.” Activist Tanaji Lonkar said, “People in Shivnerinagar initially did not cooperate with the health workers. But the situation has changed. People are now sharing health information with the surveyors.” Corporator Haji Gafur Pathan said, “The PMC has advised people to visit the mobile clinics, overnment dispensaries and private doctors for treatment.” Another corporator, Sainath Babar, said, “The survey is related to our health and we have to fight Covid-19 together. Many patients with cold and fever are going for tests following the rise in awareness.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/better-awareness-boosts-health-survey-in-kondhwa/articleshow/75212438.cms||Asseem Shaikh
April 18, 2020||Ahmedabad||E-commerce home deliveries to resume from April 20, says Centre||GANDHINAGAR/AHMEDABAD: To ease the hardships people are facing because of the lockdown, the state government has decided to allow home delivery of all kinds of goods bought online. This comes after the Union home ministry issued guidelines permitting delivery of goods purchased on e-commerce platforms. Manoj Das, principal secretary, industry and mines department, who issued directions to all collectors asking them to facilitate delivery of goods purchased through e-commerce, said, “There is no bar on goods and services delivered through e-commerce platforms as per the MHA order. The order clearly states that no e-commerce activity will be allowed in containment zones and areas that have been declared Covid-19 hotspots. “ The MHA guidelines, issued earlier this week, said, “E-commerce companies, vehicles used by e-commerce operations will be allowed to ply with necessary permissions”. The MHA order does not specify any category which will not be allowed to be delivered through e-commerce, and states are passing directions according to local conditions. Commenting on the decision, an Amazon India spokesperson said, “In line with the recent guidelines from the government effective April 20, we will serve customers, in addition to daily essentials, with products they need the most and which they have not been able to access because of the nationwide lockdown. Our foremost priority is the safety of our customers and that of our employees. We are now reaching out to all our partners brands, manufacturers, sellers, small businesses and local shops requesting them to be ready to resume operations by stocking up inventory, do workforce planning, and apply for curfew passes.” “We thank all central, state and local administrations for the opportunity to play a crucial role in serving customers while keeping their safety paramount. We look forward to their continued support to help expedite the processes for passes and labour availability that allow us to ramp up for the customer needs,” the spokesperson further added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/e-commerce-home-deliveries-to-resume-from-april-20-says-centre/articleshow/75211520.cms||Kapil Dave
April 18, 2020||Ludhiana||Definition of home for quarantine foxes officials||Ludhiana: The officials are confused over the standard protocol for coronavirus suspects as after the Ludhiana administration sent three gunmen of the Covid-19-positive ACP to their home districts, the Ferozepur and the Sangrur deputy commissioners have accused the former of not keeping them in the loop.Sangrur DC Ghanshyam Thori said, “The Ludhiana administration had sent the constable deputed with the ACP to his village in Sangrur. We learned about it through a news report when the village panchayat members protested against it. Thereafter, the matter was taken up with the Ludhiana chief medical officer, Rajesh Bagga.”“In Sangrur, if a positive case has a travel history of other districts, we immediately write to them. The Ludhiana CMO should have informed the Sangrur administration before sending the suspect here,” Thori added. Ferozepur DC Kulwant Singh said, “This is a violation of the protocol. The constable should have been kept in a quarantine centre in Ludhiana and not sent here.” However, Ludhiana commissioner of police Rakesh Agarwal said, “We followed the standard protocol. If a person is a suspect, he has to be home quarantined after taking his samples for test. The other staff attached with the ACP is from Ludhiana and they too were home quarantined. Two of his gunmen and a driver were from other districts and they were sent for home quarantine. Here, these gunmen were living in one-room accommodation, so sending them home was a safer option.” “These cops were instructed not to step out of their rooms. Their families too were told not to go out. The home quarantine sticker was also pasted outside their houses. The standard protocol was followed,” Agarwal addedManvesh Singh, secretary, Punjab health system corporation, said, “The standard protocol for Covid-19 suspects is to home quarantine them after taking their samples. If they test positive, then they are kept in isolation centers.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/definition-of-home-for-quarantine-foxes-officials/articleshow/75210223.cms||Payal Dhawan
April 18, 2020||Lucknow||200 bikes recovered in Barabanki||LUCKNOW: Barabanki police recovered 200 bikes and nine four-wheelers in Zaidpur area of the district on Friday. The vehicles were recovered following interrogation of three vehicle thieves identified as Shahim, Firoz and Suhail who were arrested 10 days back. About 100 bikes were recovered at that time. However, the kingpin Ravi Massey is still on the run. Highlighting the gang’s modus operandi, superintendent of police, Barabanki, Arvind Chaturvedi said the thieves, who were hand in glove with employees of two-wheeler agencies, used to buy a bike on genuine document. Later, they fudged documents with the photograph of different person to purchase another vehicle. They then sold the second bike in rural areas at throwaway prices. “Buyers were told that bikes on sale were cheaper as these were bought from army canteen and was in the name of another person. The buyers were also told that the bike would be transferred in their name after a year,” said Chaturvedi. When banks confronted the original buyer over non-payment of instalment, the gang members would tell bankers they had purchased only one motorcycle. Banks had no clue about the owner or user of the second bike, said the police officer. The gang had links with financing agencies, transport department along with auto agencies which is being tracked down, said police.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/200-bikes-recovered-in-barabanki/articleshow/75212462.cms||---
April 18, 2020||Goa||Initiate measures to repay depositors: MUCB to govt, RBI||Panaji: The Reserve Bank of India’s decision to cancel our banking licence during a nationwide lockdown is unfair and an unexpected blow, the Mapusa Urban Co-operative Bank of Goa (MUCB) Ltd said in a statement on Friday. MUCB, which lost its banking licence on Thursday, urged the state government and RBI to put in place measures to pay the depositors their money as quickly as possible. The RBI said that with the cancellation of the banking licence, liquidation proceedings would commence and the process to pay the depositors would be set in motion. The bank’s chairman Gurudas Natekar said that RBI and Goa government need to work for an early solution. “With the cancellation of the licence and commencement of liquidation proceedings, the process of paying the depositors as per the Deposit Insurance and Credit Guarantee Corporation (DICGC) Act will be set in motion,” RBI chief general manager Yogesh Dayal said. “On liquidation, every depositor is entitled to repayment of his or her deposits up to a monetary ceiling of Rs 5 lakh from DICGC as per terms and conditions,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/initiate-measures-to-repay-depositors-mucb-to-govt-rbi/articleshow/75212451.cms||---
April 18, 2020||Chandigarh||Definition of home for quarantine foxes officials||Ludhiana: The officials are confused over the standard protocol for coronavirus suspects as after the Ludhiana administration sent three gunmen of the Covid-19-positive ACP to their home districts, the Ferozepur and the Sangrur deputy commissioners have accused the former of not keeping them in the loop.Sangrur DC Ghanshyam Thori said, “The Ludhiana administration had sent the constable deputed with the ACP to his village in Sangrur. We learned about it through a news report when the village panchayat members protested against it. Thereafter, the matter was taken up with the Ludhiana chief medical officer, Rajesh Bagga.”“In Sangrur, if a positive case has a travel history of other districts, we immediately write to them. The Ludhiana CMO should have informed the Sangrur administration before sending the suspect here,” Thori added. Ferozepur DC Kulwant Singh said, “This is a violation of the protocol. The constable should have been kept in a quarantine centre in Ludhiana and not sent here.” However, Ludhiana commissioner of police Rakesh Agarwal said, “We followed the standard protocol. If a person is a suspect, he has to be home quarantined after taking his samples for test. The other staff attached with the ACP is from Ludhiana and they too were home quarantined. Two of his gunmen and a driver were from other districts and they were sent for home quarantine. Here, these gunmen were living in one-room accommodation, so sending them home was a safer option.” “These cops were instructed not to step out of their rooms. Their families too were told not to go out. The home quarantine sticker was also pasted outside their houses. The standard protocol was followed,” Agarwal addedManvesh Singh, secretary, Punjab health system corporation, said, “The standard protocol for Covid-19 suspects is to home quarantine them after taking their samples. If they test positive, then they are kept in isolation centers.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/definition-of-home-for-quarantine-foxes-officials/articleshow/75210247.cms||Payal Dhawan
April 18, 2020||Nagpur||Dawn of the lockdown age||Like the entire country, the lockdown has forced the panellists to stay indoors but at the same time opened up doors of new realizations for them. Celebrity chef Vishnu Manohar acknowledges the amount of work housewives do. “Now, more men are into cooking,” he said. On a more personal level, Manohar says he has been able to give quality time to his 14-year-old son. “And there is so much time to read and listen to music,” he said. There are many new things which Seema Saboo, a psychologist and child counsellor, has learnt from the man of the house. “It’s amazing how he pays attention to the smallest of details,” she said. For the youths, it’s a unique situation as they are not used to staying at home for long periods. In case of Aishwarya Nandwani, a student, she discovered the hidden chef in her. During her online sessions, life coach Sapna Sharma has come across students and husbands who are complaining about the household chores. She didn’t enjoy cooking before “but now that’s a part of life”. The lockdown has led to exodus of labourers from cities, but those who stayed behind need to be cared for, feels industrialist Sharad Agrawal who has “adopted a wait and watch policy.” “Whenever normalcy returns, not sure how social distancing and sanitization of workplaces will happen,” he said. On the personal front, Agrawal said he was distributing food packets to the needy. “It’s been a really tough time for an outdoor person like me,” said cycling enthusiast Aniruddha Raich. To maintain physical fitness, he has been climbing stairs and following gym-like routine. Having worked from home for the last 20 years, the situation is not new for mental health counsellor Dr Tarique Sani. “Just missing outdoor running and a haircut. Surprisingly, most clients are coming to me with a sense of loss and grief, rather than anxiety,” he said. Tarique is of the view that the lockdown should continue. Sharma doesn’t see the virus going away soon and so the “lockdown will definitely continue”. Sounding a note of caution, she said that whenever the lockdown is lifted, there could be disaster as everybody will rush to markets, malls etc. “There should be a graded opening,” she said. For Raich, the lockdown has made people like him feel like a caged animal but he too supported graded opening of lockdown. Sharma commended the efforts of central and state governments for “timely and effective implementation of the lockdown”. Aishwarya felt, “the poor and labourers are not getting proper help.” “Given the size of our population, the governments are doing a good job. Others are also doing their bit. CBSE has started online courses and it’s heartening to see schools too getting involved to keep students engaged,” Saboo said. Manohar too praised the governments but felt the benefits were not reaching at the grassroots level. “NGOS are doing a better job. Facilities at quarantine centres need to improve. Local people’s representatives need to take responsibility,” he said. Aishwarya pointed out the outbreak should be looked at as a problem for entire society and shouldn’t acquire a communal angle. Tarique wanted individuals to give their best in helping others. “Governments can be questioned later,” he said. “The government has to make a choice between saving lives and saving economy. It may end up choosing economy as the disaster is inevitable,” Raich said. Agrawal sought answers from government for not roping in private hospitals to test or treat patients. “If private sector is allowed, some 5% will go there and insurance will take care of the costs,” he said. Talking about the lingering effects, Sharma cited example of China where many couples had filed for divorce after the lockdown. “This could be side-effect of staying together in closed quarters for prolonged period. On the brighter side, relations might improve and people might develop a broader outlook,” she said. In case of Manohar’s family, he said that they now knew each other much better. He also expressed concern about the rebuilding process for businesses. Raich felt it was going to be a tough time for small businesses and employment would be scarce. “Finding manpower will also become difficult,” he said. Tarique was concerned about health of frontline warriors, who he said might develop complex mental disorders in years to come. According to Agrawal, migrant labourers will return but felt it would be difficult for industrialists to employ many. Heart attack cases are going down, leaving cardiologists wondering, pointed out Sharma. She attributed this to people eating better, exercising, low pollution and spending time with family. On the environmental front, there have been quite a few positives. But will they last? In Saboo’s opinion, people will learn to appreciate nature. Sharma isn’t sure because “everything will be back to what it was earlier”. Raich too was of the view that it will be like New Year’s resolutions that are forgotten quickly. “We won’t be back to agriculture-based society,” Tarique said. On Aishwarya’s statement that people will not give up luxuries so soon, Saboo said new habits developed in 30 days and “we have 45 days to change our life for better”. “As soon as industries start, pollution will be back,” said Agrawal. According to Manohar, vegetarian food will become more popular. “Maybe those who went to villages may not come back in as many numbers,” he said. Sharma was sceptical whether the situation will make people more compassionate. “Some will change but not the whole society,” she said. “What will happen when reals scarcity happens? Charity is a temporary phenomenon. It will go down when resources start depleting,” Tarique said. Raich defined charity as an everyday act, in how you behave and conduct yourself. “People will come out on the streets if scarcity strikes,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/dawn-of-the-lockdown-age/articleshow/75210299.cms||---
April 18, 2020||Goa||CM calls for strict border security||Keri/Bicholim: Chief minister Pramod Sawant visited the border checkpost at Keri on Thursday and discussed various issues faced by officials. Even though Valpoi police are effectively manning the borders post-lockdown, it was revealed that some people from neighbouring states sneak into Goa illegally. Instances in the past had come to light wherein, daily wagers from Karnataka who were in Goa prior to lockdown, had made attempts to cross the border using pathways from forest linking the Chorla Ghat stretch. Their attempts proved futile, after Karnataka police intercepted them and handed over to the Goa Police. Ever since they have been kept in shelter homes at Mapusa. As per reports, 36 people have been found positive for Coronavirus in Belgavi district of Karnataka that shares borders with Sattari taluka. Also, a person from Piranwadi has been found positive in Covid-19 test. Deputy collector of Valpoi, Mangaldas Gaonkar told TOI that proper directives have been issued to the police to block all pathways leading to the border. Also, they have been asked to keep a strict vigil on the vehicles that carry essential goods. In a related development, a gate has been installed across an untarred road at Sal restricting the entry of people from Maharashtra through the rehabilitation colony at Sal in Bicholim. Social worker Meghshyam Raut installed the gate at his own expense after taking permission from Bicholim PI Sanjay Dalvi. Recently, after public outcry, the local civic body had dug trenches on the road preventing people from neighbouring states from entering Goa. But some miscreants filled the trenches and opened the road for vehicles. It was only after villagers raised an alarm over the lurking danger that police took cognizance of the same and allowed the installation of the gate. Two policemen have also been deployed here to keep a watch over the movement of traffic.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/cm-calls-for-strict-border-security/articleshow/75212474.cms||---
April 18, 2020||Goa||This is criminal indulgence: GFP||Panaji: The opposition slammed the BJP-led state government, especially chief minister Pramod Sawant, for trying to purchase a lavish car worth nearly Rs 35 lakh using government’s funds. Goa Forward Party (GFP) and Congress said that Sawant should explain why he needs to purchase such an exorbitant vehicle. “The recent circular of the government for buying vehicles worth lakhs of rupees and the alleged news of Pramod Sawant himself interested in buying an extravagant vehicle is another example of the BJP’s agenda and hypocrisy,” said state Congress president Girish Chodankar. “When the CM is seeking funds to fight Covid-19 and at the same time is spending money to buy vehicles, it is a criminal indulgence,” said GFP chief Vijai Sardesai. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/this-is-criminal-indulgence-gfp/articleshow/75212475.cms||---
April 18, 2020||Ahmedabad||5 more flights to evacuate British expats||Ahmedabad: Five more chartered flights will operate from Ahmedabad next week to transport British expatriates who are stranded in several parts of Gujarat. They will be flown to London. In an announcement made on Friday, the British high commission confirmed that 17 chartered flights have been arranged across the country to transport British expats. The travel of more than 5,000 British nationals was already facilitated this week. In fact, a flight departed from Hyderabad to London, via Sardar Vallabhbhai Patel International (SVPI) airport in Ahmedabad, on Friday night with at least 140 British expats travelling to London. Next week, four flights will depart from SVPI airport in Ahmedabad to Heathrow airport in London, on April 20, 22, 24 and 26. One more flight will operate from Bengaluru to London via Ahmedabad on April 23.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/5-more-flights-to-evacuate-british-expats/articleshow/75211537.cms||---
April 18, 2020||Pune||Poultry shops shut in Chakan after Bhosari distributor contracts infection||PUNE: The Chakan Municipal Council (CMC) on Friday closed all chicken and eggs shops in its jurisdiction for eight days as a precautionary measure after an egg distributor from Bhosari tested positive for Covid-19 recently. Civic officials have commissioned a survey to identify those with symptoms. Nilam Patil, chief officer, CMC, said, “The distributor had supplied eggs in Chakan and four surrounding villages last week. We have shut all poultry and egg shops in the town.” She added the boundaries of the town were sealed. Only two points were open, which were monitored by the police.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/poultry-shops-shut-in-chakan-after-bhosari-distributor-contracts-infection/articleshow/75212470.cms||Sandip Dighe
April 18, 2020||Pune||Pune: Soaring maximum temperature triggers surge in seasonal flu cases||PUNE: Cases of seasonal flu have surged in the city off late with the soaring mercury column. The heat load over the city with the rising day temperature has prompted the surge in flu cases, stressed doctors. Consultant physician Atul Biniwale told TOI that seasonal flu symptoms were almost the same as those of Covid-19 and it was very difficult to differentiate between the two. “As against one or two patients with seasonal flu per day, the number has now gone up to five to 10 per day. Patients are initially advised to take paracetamol, antihistamines and cough syrups. A normal flu settles down in two to three days; but patients are encouraged to isolate themselves when they experience such symptoms. If the symptoms don’t settle in this period, they are referred to flu clinics,” he said. Most doctors have been referring patients to the Pune Municipal Corporation’s flu clinics at 74 locations in the city after an analysing them. But only a few have been prescribed swab test to check if they are Covid-19 patients. An official from the Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC)’s health department said, “A majority of the patients visiting the city’s flu clinics are being treated for seasonal flu. Of the 3,393 patients visiting the flu clinics on Wednesday, only 69 were sent for swab test. The rest were given seasonal flu medication. Out of the 2,986 patients visiting the flu clinics on April 16, just 84 were sent for swab test.” Senior consultant physician Dr Parul Cariappa said seasonal variation in temperature had triggered the rise in flu cases at a time when everyone was worried about Covid-19. “Flu cases have increased even more in the past seven days or so. Symptoms of seasonal flu could be running nose, sneezing, throat irritation, mild cough and little fever. But just based on symptoms, one cannot rule out coronavirus infection,” said Dr Cariappa. Surgeon Padma Iyer, past president of Indian Medical Association (IMA), Pune, said, “If a patient has no fever and show only mild symptoms like throat irritation, cough and cold (mild enough to not cause any weakness, myalgias or fever), then s/he can take home remedies like gargling, steam inhalation, Vitamin C supplements and rest. They must keep checking their temperature to ensure that there is no fever. Symptoms like throat irritation, cold and cough (without constitutional symptoms like body ache, myalgia and weakness) are local symptoms because of factors like intake of cold water or beverages or ice cream during hot weather.” Iyer said, “In our teleconsultations, every two out of 10 callers nowadays report of such symptoms, while many make panic calls. All medical practitioners have been advised by the PMC health authorities to refer people with flu-like symptoms to one of the flu clinics set up at 74 locations in the city.” Cases of seasonal flu tend to rise because of the sudden increase in the day temperature, stressed some doctors. “Even seasonal flu has symptoms like fever, cough, cold and giddiness. It is, thus, best to visit one of the flu clinics when such symptoms appear without any delay,” said Avinash Bhondwe, the president of IMA, Maharashtra, adding that people had also been reporting dehydration increasingly because of the rise in temperature. He said, “People are at home nowadays and tend to eat anything that is available, apart from resorting to cold water or cold and sweetened drinks to beat the heat. These tend to aggravate sinus and allergy symptoms. Junk food tends to have a bad effect on digestion.” Bhondwe said, “I used to see 40 patients with seasonal flu (cold, sore throat and fever, dry cough) per session till last week. Now, I am getting around 10 patients more at my clinic.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/soaring-maximum-temperature-triggers-surge-in-seasonal-flu-cases/articleshow/75212458.cms||Neha Madaan
April 18, 2020||Nagpur||Covid-19 fears loom large over tendu leaves collection||Nagpur: Though the state government has exempted removal of tendu patta from restrictions imposed during lockdown, Covid-19 pandemic has badly hit auction in Maharashtra, Madhya Pradesh and Chhattisgarh. In Maharashtra of the 279 tendu units, only 105 units were sold after 5th round of auction process. In Maharashtra the tender for 6th round for remaining units of e-tender was postponed twice and finally it was opened on April 15, 2020 and approval is awaited from the government. “Our 6th round was to be held on March 23 but it was put off for April 1 and later to April 15, due to Covid-19. Of the 105 units sold, we hope to generate 1,39,250 standard bags fetching royalty Rs23.20 crore, apart from results of 6th round,” said APCCF (tendu) TK Choubey. In Chhattisgarh, of the 984 units, 605 units have been sold. In MP of the 950 units, only 650 were sold. “In both the states now they will offer material on first-come-first-serve basis,” sources said. Senior forest officials said there is slump in the market for last 2-3 years owing to old stock with traders. Another major reason is coronavirus restrictions which banned transport and movement of labour too. “It is only now government realized tribals would be put to huge loss of wages, tendu patta extraction has been exempted from lockdown. If these restrictions had been removed before auctioning process started traders would have wholeheartedly participated,” said some leading traders from Chhattisgarh and MP. As lakhs of tribals are involved, tendu patta collection has a political link. The government realized too late. In Maharashtra alone during last season over 1.80 lakh families benefited from tendu collection. These families from Vidarbha region would get Rs10.61 crore towards bonus, which is a major earning source for labourers. The Central and subsequently state governments exempted tendu collection and its transportation on April 15 while auction process started when coronavirus had started to peep in. However, the circular doesn’t specify any guidelines on safety measures to be taken during collection. “Tendu collection is one part but major activity is bagging of leaves. It is a specialized job where in 4 feet distance at least 7 workers are needed to stuff leaves in jute bags without being damaged. While packaging how the contractor will maintain social distancing?” asked traders. “Secondly, we are running short of jute bags which are mostly procured from Kolkata. Due to lockdown for a month, there was no production. This is a big issue as tendu patta cannot be packed in plastic bags,” they said. Maharashtra forest officials admit that tendu traders had written to the department to postpone the auction process due to Covid-19 as getting labourers will be a problem. Lots of poor villagers and tribal people are dependent for their livelihood from tendu leaves and minor forest produce (MFP) collections. In the latest guidelines of Ministry of Home Affairs (MHA) issued on April 16, as well as state government on April 15, 2020, collection of MFPs have been exempted in PESA areas as well as in non-PESA areas during lockdown period.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/covid-19-fears-loom-large-over-tendu-leaves-collection/articleshow/75210287.cms||Vijay Pinjarkar
April 18, 2020||Jaipur||Amid lockdown, anxiety, panic grip Kota coaching students||Kota: Following the lockdown extension on Tuesday, anxiety and panic have gripped thousands of students studying in Kota, who are staying in PGs and hostels. Nearly 35,000 students, including 12,000-15,000 girls, were stuck in Kota after the first phase of lockdown was declared. However, some of them managed to get passes to travel by personal vehicles to their homes, but they were stopped at the borders of their home states and were put under quarantine. Kota district administration, after the reports of the students being stopped at the borders, stopped issuing passes, but the move has left thousands of students disappointed. “I am trying to get a pass to travel to my home in Katihaar district in Bihar but I have not been able to obtain the same and the reports of putting the students under quarantine at state borders have further disappointed me,” Mohammad Shahbaz Hussain, a NEET aspirant who stays in a PG in Talwandi area of the city told TOI on Wednesday. “The mess has been again closed for a few days and I have to live on Maggi or some fast food cooked in the room,” he further said, demanding the state government to find some way to send the students in Kota to their homes, as their parents back home are concerned and worried about their well-being, while the number of corona-positive cases rise in Kota city. Disappointed, the students have started a Twitter campaign - #helpkotastudents and #sendusbackhome where they have been tagging Prime Minister Narendra Modi, Lok Sabha Speaker Om Birla who is an MP from Kota, chief Minster Ashok Gehlot, UP chief minister Yogi Adityanath among others. Coming from different states including Uttar Pradesh, Odisha and Bihar among others, these students take the coaching to crack competitive exams including IIT-JEE and medical entrances, have tweeted over 70000 messages on Twitter sharing their worries, challenges and threats they face due to epidemic outbreak. L K Soni, Divisional commissioner, Kota said, "We have issued a helpline number which addresses their complaints on issues like food, residence and medical. In fact, students have been approaching us on this helpline number and we are sending our teams to the said location without delay. However, surprisingly, in 40 per cent of cases, our officials are finding that they have food but they want them to be allowed to go back home. They are panicking because of movement barrier," he said, adding that the real reason for drawing attention is that they are getting emotional here, he added. Nidhi, a NEET aspirant from Kolkata who stays at a hostel in Kota, has decided not to seek a travel pass and to stay put in her hostel room after one of her friends, who had left by personal vehicle for her home in UP, had to return from the border. “I get the food either from the mess or from online food delivery options and the food packet delivered at the room is fully sanitised,” she said, adding that the delivery boy sanitises the food packet before dropping it at the room’s door and a message on its sanitisation status is also delivered on her mobile, she said. (with agency inputs)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/amid-lockdown-anxiety-panic-grip-kota-coaching-students/articleshow/75212486.cms||---
April 18, 2020||Patna||Covid-19 claims second victim in Bihar, total cases 83||PATNA: A 35-year-old man from Vaishali, who tested positive for Covid-19 on April 15, died at AIIMS-Patna on Friday, taking the coronavirus death toll in the state to two. There are currently 81 active cases in the state. The first Covid-19 death in the state was that of a 38-year-old man from Munger, who was admitted in AIIMS with chronic kidney problems but was found to be coronavirus positive a day after his death on March 21. “Two persons who were suffering from other illnesses as well have so far died. They both had comorbidities,” said state health department secretary Lokesh Kumar Singh. According to AIIMS-Patna dean Dr Neeraj Agarwal, the Vaishali man was admitted on Tuesday with high fever. He also had history of tuberculosis. His report confirming Covid-19 came on Wednesday. Doctors at AIIMS-Patna also suspect fungal infection in brain, encephalitis and multiple infarction. “Since entire investigation could not be done so we cannot say exactly what it was, but there were few lesions in the brain,” said Dr Agarwal. Unlike the first case, who had returned from Qatar, the Vaishali man had not travelled outside the state for the past three months and neither had he come in direct contact with any Covid-19 positive person. Patna DM Kumar Ravi said, “The Vaishali man had come to a private hospital in Khusrupur from Vaishali on March 23 and was there for four or five days, then was taken to another private hospital on Bypass Road on April 3 and was discharged on April 7. He had also been to a diagnostic centre for tests. When his condition deteriorated, he was brought to AIIMS-Patna.” Health officials suspect that he may have got infected at one of these hospitals or diagnostic centres as neither he had any travel history, nor anyone from Vaishali has so far been found Covid-19 positive. His wife and two other relatives who had accompanied him have tested negative. The deceased’s last rites were performed in Patna as per guidelines set by ministry of health and family welfare under the guidance of Patna and Vaishali district administrations. Patna DM said, “His two relatives, brother and a niece, along with a priest, three civic employees and two others were there during the final ritual. They were all given PPE kits and body was properly sealed and brought to the ghat and was cremated using woods.” So far, 83 people in Bihar have tested positive of whom 37 have recovered and two have died. Maximum number of cases have been reported from Siwan with total 29 cases, followed by Munger with 17 cases. State health minister Mangal Pandey said an additional RT-PCR machine has been brought to Rajendra Memorial Research Institute of Medical Sciences to increase Covid-19 test capacity. “Now 700 to 800 samples can be tested in a day at RMRI,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/covid-claims-2nd-victim-in-state-total-cases-83/articleshow/75210283.cms||Sheezan Nezami
April 18, 2020||Ahmedabad||Numerous lawyers apply for Rs 5,000 aid from Bar Council||AHMEDABAD: The financial distress caused to self-employed professionals by the nationwide lockdown and Covid-19 pandemic is manifest in the rush of young lawyers who queued up to claim the meagre financial assistance being offered by the Bar Council of Gujarat (BCG). The BCG is offering aid of Rs 5,000 each to advocates struggling in their practice. For this, it received nearly 13,000 applications in a week, from lawyers across the state. The BCG laid down certain criteria, that the advocate be enrolled for practice after 2006, besides an income limit. A BCG member, Anil Kella said, “There are 47,000 lawyers who enrolled with our Bar Council after 2006. Of these, we received requests from some 13,000 members.” He said that initially the BCG had initially made budgetary provisions of Rs 5 crore for this assistance to practising advocates who are now in distress because of restrictions on movement and because courts have been closed for the past one month. He added, “With the flow of the applications, we may have to allocate around Rs 7 crore.” With the extension of the lockdown by another 19 days, the Bar expects that the demand from advocates in need would increase, though the deadline for making applications online is April 20. The BCG also feels that it cannot stretch its budget now and it rejected proposals to increase the amount. Kella said that more and more persons have been enrolling as practising advocates nowadays. “We got more than 11,000 members out of our 76,000 members across Gujarat after 2011, when the exams began to be conducted for enrollment,” he said. To meet the demand, the BCG has appealed to various bar associations to further appeal to well-off advocates to donate generously.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/numerous-lawyers-apply-for-rs-5000-aid-from-bar-council/articleshow/75211556.cms||---
April 18, 2020||Pune||Pune: 62 pregnant women negative for Covid-19||PUNE: All the 62 pregnant women, who came in contact with a coronavirus-infected radiologist in Shikrapur recently, have tested negative for Covid-19. Pune ZP’s CEO Ayush Prasad said, “All these women are of sound health. The testing of samples was done on a war footing after we went through the difficult task of tracing each of them within 24 hours.” The authorities are continuing their surveys in 31 villages, from where these women hail, to find out if anybody has been infected. The Shikrapur grampanchayat has sealed the area falling with a 3km radius of the hospital. Sarpanch Jayashree Bhujbal said, “We have made an arrangement to deliver gorcery items at homes to avoid mass gathering in the village."||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/62-pregnant-women-negative-for-virus/articleshow/75212480.cms||Sandip Dighe
April 18, 2020||Goa||Belagavi veg supply unaffected for now||Panaji: Citizens may have concerns about the supply of vegetables from Belagavi to Goa after the number of Covid-19 positive in the neighbouring state’s district almost doubled on Thursday. Stakeholders however remain calm that the supply chain will not be affected at least for now. The Goa state horticulture corporation orders anywhere between 120-150 tonne of vegetables from Belagavi to be sold at its 1,200-odd outlets across the state. This supply has been coming to Goa every alternate day which is then distributed among vendors to carry out home delivery of services. “The main vegetable market at Belagavi has been shut down by the district administration there. They have instead set up markets and packing units in farmers’ fields itself. Our suppliers have therefore been packing the vegetables in the fields itself instead of doing the same at the market where congestion prevailed. The supply is therefore coming directly from the farmers’ fields,” managing director of the corporation, Sandeep Faldesai said. However, uncertainty prevails as it also depends on the district administration of Belagavi in case they decide to seal their borders as a precautionary measure. “Problems will arise only if the government seals its borders. However, they are allowing the transportation of milk, medicine and vegetables from Karnataka to Goa, so the supply will continue,” said Ramesh Pawale, a supplier from Belagavi. Mayor Uday Madkaikar said that the directorate of health services and the CM will have to take a call on the continuation of supply||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/belagavi-veg-supply-unaffected-for-now/articleshow/75212492.cms||---
April 18, 2020||Jaipur||Villagers thrash 2 civic staff for dumping medical waste||JAIPUR: Two sanitation workers, who had gone to dump garbage from a hospital at Sewapura landfill site, were beaten up by villagers on Friday evening. The seriously injured workers have been rushed to the Jaipuria Hospital. One of the workers, Nanlal Gurjar, got 12 stitches. Both the sanitation employees of Jaipur Municipal Corporation (JMC) were working on their afternoon shift at Manipal Hospital where a quarantine centre is functioning. As per the workers, at around 4 pm, the JMC officials at the hospital ordered them to go to Sewapura landfill site to dispose of the garbage from the hospital. Following the orders, workers took the garbage transfer vehicle to Sewapura landfill site. As per the workers, residents of Sewapura village got agitated after coming to know that the vehicle is from the hospital. President of JMC sanitation workers’ union Nand Kishore said, “Rumours spread in the village that the garbage from the hospital is infected. They started abusing the staff and thrashed them. Both the sanitation workers were rushed to Jaipuria Hospital where one got 12 stiches and other’s hand is badly injured,” said Kishore. They were later on shifted to a private nursing home but the sanitation workers union of JMC is now demanding justice for the workers. “Sanitation workers are not responsible for transferring the garbage to the landfill site. It was wrong on the part of JMC official to send them. We want strict action against the officials and people who brutally thrashed the workers. We have given ultimatum to JMC that if action is not taken against the guilty, then from 11 am on Saturday entire staff of JMC sanitation workers will go on indefinite strike,” said Kishore. JMC officials were not reachable for any comment. Sanitation workers further alleged that they were not given mask or gloves while working in the hospital. They are demanding PPE kit and security against such act.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/villagers-thrash-2-civic-staff-for-dumping-medical-waste/articleshow/75212497.cms||---
April 18, 2020||Goa||‘Investigate beached whale shark incident’||Panaji: The forest department has requested Calangute police to investigate the case of the whale shark that washed ashore Baga beach on Thursday with its dorsal fins missing. The 5m-long male juvenile with a girth of 3m was found on the beach, though it is not known whether it landed ashore after being injured or dragged in a fishing net. The forest department conducted a panchanama at the site and buried the carcass after a postmortem. The findings of the examination are expected shortly. Speculation was rife that the fins were sliced off after its stranding on shore. “We are looking at the matter from all angles,” forest department official, round forester, Abhijeet Naik said. The whale shark is highly endangered and is included in schedule one of wild life protection act. “The fins may have been cut to extract oil,” an activist stated.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/investigate-beached-whale-shark-incident/articleshow/75212506.cms||---
April 18, 2020||Jaipur||JMC begins disinfecting quarantine centres in city||Jaipur: The Jaipur Municipal Corporation (JMC) has begun spraying disinfectants in the quarantine centres in city from Friday onwards. About 100 sanitation workers have been employed for the purpose. JMC doctor Soniya Aggarwal, in charge of the drive, said, “All the workers have been provided with a PPE kit and knapsack machines. They are working to disinfect the rooms, corridors, toilets and other areas. The drive will continue in the quarantine centres of Jaipur Development Authority (JDA) that will start functioning soon.” The quarantine centres include Poornima University, JECRC, Manipal University, Mahila Vidhyapeeth, Jobner, SKIT, Hotel Palm and five other hotels. Besides, around 120 JMC teams are involved in spraying disinfectants in the city via fire tenders. JMC uses two types of chemicals as disinfectants, i.e., sodium hypochlorite 1% for knapsack sprayers and sodium hypochlorite 10% for fire tenders. The JDA has been preparing quarantine centres outside the city boundaries in the unsold flats of housing board for around 6,000 people. JDA Commissioner T Ravikant had on Thursday visited the flats and said the centres will start functioning soon.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/jmc-begins-disinfecting-quarantine-centres-in-city/articleshow/75212511.cms||---
April 18, 2020||Ahmedabad||Gujarat government to survey layoffs, pay cuts||GANDHINAGAR: The Gujarat labour and employment department has initiated an exercise of compiling data on layoffs and pay cuts made by industries, commercial establishments and other employers because of the lockdown. The PM had appealed to employers not to lay off workers or cut their salaries during the lockdown period. Subsequently, the Union labour ministry issued guidelines, seeking a report on the number of workers who have been laid off or whether pay cuts have been effected during the lockdown. The Union labour ministry has sought data from the employees provident fund organisation (EPFO), employees state insurance corporation (ESIC) and the state governments on job losses, salary cuts and delayed payment. Vipul Mittra, additional chief secretary, labour & employment, said, “The state government is initiating the process of collecting data of possible layoffs and jobs cuts as suggested by the Union ministry of labour.’’ The notification under Section 34 of the Disaster Management Act will be extended to cover payment of wages to labourers and workers for the month of April. This is in view of extension of lockdown period till May 3. It will apply to all workers and labourers of all factories registered or otherwise under the factories act, as well as all shops and establishments and all households. It covers all workers with the contractors and all workers whether in formal or informal sector, the official said. Anyone violating the notification shall be liable for punishment of imprisonment up to one year under the provisions of the Disaster Management Act. Mittra said, “The state government has taken a series of measures for the relief of labour class during the lockdown period including shelter, food & other arrangements.” So far wages to the tune of Rs 1,458 crore have been paid to workers by formal sector employers.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/govt-to-survey-layoffs-pay-cuts/articleshow/75211577.cms||Kapil Dave
April 18, 2020||Ahmedabad||Gujarat sixth state to cross 1,000 cases, death toll reaches 41||AHMEDABAD: Gujarat became sixth Indian state to cross 1,000 Covid-19 cases threshold on Friday with the tally reaching 1,099 by the evening. The state recorded 170 cases in 24 hours, a record high. The state also reported five more deaths, taking the state’s death toll to 41. It’s notable that the state crossed 500 cases on April 12 with 512 cases. Cases have spiked in next five days when the state added 587 more patients. This comes to an average of nearly five positive cases every hour. Out of the 170 new cases, 77 were recorded in Ahmedabad, 52 in Surat and 14 in Vadodara. Out of five deaths, four were recorded in Ahmedabad and one in Vadodara. On Friday, the state government imposed curfew in Jangleshwar area of Rajkot, making it the third city in Gujarat to have curfew zones to arrest spread of the disease. One of the positive persons was son of Dr Gunvant Rathod, superintendent of Civil Hospital in Ahmedabad. Dr Rathod is sent for isolation. Two doctors in Civil Hospitals at Surat and Bharuch also tested positive. State health department officials said that on Friday a total 13 persons were discharged – one of the highest in recent days, taking the total number of discharged patients to 86.Jayanti Ravi, principal secretary (health & family welfare), said that majority of the cases are still getting reported from identified hotspots in the cities. “For example, the new cases were recorded from Dariyapur, Kalupur, Behrampura, Kankariya, Delhi Chakla, Asarva, Jamalpur and Maninagar in Ahmedabad, Mahuva, Man Darwaja, Limbayat, Pandesara, Udhna and Salabatpura in Surat and Nagarwada in Vadodara,” she said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/guj-6th-state-to-cross-1000-cases-death-toll-reaches-41/articleshow/75211605.cms||---
April 18, 2020||Goa||Goa: Raid on vegetable supply leaves complex residents fuming||PANAJI: A housing society in Ribandar conducting humanitarian service by bringing in an authorised government vendor to deliver vegetables to more than 100 of its residents was raided by government officials of seven departments led by the CCP officials on Friday morning. The raid took the residents of Milroc ribandar retreat housing maintenance cooperative society, who had already received approval from the North Goa Collector, by surprise. “Around 26 officials from CCP, talathi, Panaji police station, FDA, weights and measures, civil supplies and commercial taxes conducted a filmy-style raid. The police arrived before 9 am and all the other officials by 9.30—in record time for government officials— and seized the vegetables without following any procedure and without producing any complaint or letter,” coordinator of the society Amit Chopra said. “We are volunteers with authorised passes and were arranging for vegetables from a government authorised vendor for the society residents. The officials who showed up acted like we were conducting some illegal activity,” Chopra added. Panaji mayor Uday Madkaikar said the raid was conducted following a complaint filed by social activist Aires Rodrigues, and added that he wasn’t aware about the details. Tiswadi incident commissioner and deputy collector Vivek HP initiated an inquiry into the incident . “After a site inspection, I submitted a report to the collector highlighting that this is a humanitarian service, and no commercial activity was happening,” he told TOI.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/raid-on-veg-supply-leaves-complex-residents-fuming/articleshow/75212518.cms||---
April 18, 2020||Lucknow||Self-help groups to produce 11 lakh khadi face masks, 9,000 PPE kits||LUCKNOW: Rural development department has roped in self-help groups (SHGs) in rural parts of the state for the production of over 11 lakh khadi face masks and nearly 9,000 personal protection equipment (PPE) kits which would be provided to health and police officials who are at the helm of battle against coronavirus pandemic. The department has tied up with khadi industries department for procurement of cloth for production of single- and double-layered masks. Talking to TOI, MD and mission director of UP State Rural Livelihood Mission (UPSRLM) Sujit Kumar said, “Earlier, the department had been procuring cloth from market at the rate of Rs 65 per metre for production of masks due to which the rate of masks was Rs 16 each. But with the use of khadi, the cost of single- and double-layered masks is Rs 14.” Kumar said the SHGs were roped in ever since the coronavirus pandemic started spreading tentacles. According to the data released by rural development department, the maximum number of over 89,000 face masks were manufactured by SHGs in Lucknow, followed by Aligarh where more than 64,000 masks were made. Other districts where masks were manufactured included Bijnor (87,000), Varanasi (41,000) and Moradabad (34,000). “The department is also in the process of producing PPE kits which will be supplied to army hospitals. The department has already produced 2,000 PPE kits,” Kumar said. Data show that Siddharth Nagar district produced maximum 5,000 PPE kits, followed by Basti where as many as 860 kits were manufactured. The rural development department has been working overtime in the wake of scores of migrants returning to their native villages.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/shgs-to-produce-11l-khadi-face-masks-9000-ppe-kits/articleshow/75212509.cms||Pankaj Shah
April 18, 2020||Vadodara||One from Godhra, two of Vadodara die in city||Vadodara: Three persons died in Vadodara since Thursday night due to COVID-19. The deceased include two residents of Vadodara and one from Godhra even as total number of cases in Vadodara went up to 145. Chirag Kachhiya, a 31-year-old resident of Madan Jhampa Road, died at GMERS, Gotri Hospital on Thursday night. He had died at the hospital late on Thursday afternoon. Reports of COVID-19 tests in the night revealed that he was suffering from COVID-19. He had other health complications like hypertension and obesity also. The second death from the city was that of Abduljbbar Dudhwala (60) staying behind the veterinary hospital in Karelibaug. He had co-morbid conditions like hypertension and diabetes since last 10 years. He was brought to SSG Hospital on Thursday evening and died on Friday evening. Tea vendor Govind Rajai (58) from Godhra, who was admitted at GMERS, Gotri Hospital on April 13, died on Friday evening. Rajai was obese and had other health complications as well that had complicated his conditions, making recovery difficult. Rajai had tea stall in Jahurpura vegetable market in Godhra as well as a tea shop at Godhra APMC wholesale market. Several traders at APMC are in home quarantine now. As many as 11 new cases were reported in the city and district since Thursday night. These included a girl staying on a university campus in Limda and 10 people from the city. The fresh cases in the city included the two deaths since Thursday night.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/one-from-godhra-two-of-vadodara-die-in-city/articleshow/75209596.cms||---
April 18, 2020||Goa||Goa: Karnataka youth kills minor ex-girlfriend||PONDA: Irked with the estrangement, Mansoor Hussain Shaik, 22, a native of Gadag in Karnataka allegedly strangulated his 17-year-old ex-girlfriend at Baithakhol-Borim, about 4km from Ponda town. The minor, a migrant residing at Usgao, had left her home on Monday morning to visit Ponda sub-district hospital and was missing since then. Her family launched a search for her and after failing to trace her finally lodged a missing complaint with the Ponda police on Thursday. Coincidentally, a local from Borim who had ventured in his cashew plantation to gather fallen cashew noticed flies scattered in the area and a foul smell emanating from the control room of the water tank at the Baithakhol hillock and informed the police, Ponda DySP Nelson Albuquerque said. When the police staff reached the spot, they found a body abandoned inside that matched the description of the missing girl. A police team, including Ponda PI Mohan Gaude and Collem PI Prajyot S Fadte, swung into action under the guidance of DySP Albuquerque and found that the girl was picked up by the accused and they had gone to Borim on Monday morning, SP Arvind Gawas said. The accused was friendly with the girl, but the victim had cut ties with him since last year. Feeling rejected, the accused took the girl to the water tank to convince her, but he killed her, police said. The accused resides at Haveli-Curti, on the outskirts of Ponda.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/ktaka-youth-kills-minor-ex-girlfriend/articleshow/75212535.cms||---
April 18, 2020||Jaipur||Jaipur: Fight against coronavirus boils down to 7 Ramganj areas||JAIPUR: The local administration has zeroed down its fight against coronavirus to seven areas with a population of 70,000 for the next few days. These areas have been barricaded with no movement of even civil groups providing essential supplies to the families. The fortified areas are Jaganathji ka Rasta, Gosiyon ka Rasta, Panni Gram Moti Katla, Handipura Mohalla, Frutta Fura Ka Rasta and Faker Badshah ka Mohalla. These areas have been identified on the basis of number of Covid-19 positive cases. Every area has been sealed leaving one entry/exit point. “Since the operation in the area has entered the third week has given access to a lot of data. These areas were listed by using probability formula, said area magistrate Aqeel Khan. The number of areas can be increased or decreased depending on the possible outcome. The administration has not given any time frame for the existing situation but hinted that it will depend on number of cases from the sealed area. Under the new protocol, the delivery of essential services including supply of milk, vegetables and food grains have become a challenging task given the congested living environment. Many lanes are just two to four metre wide making impossible for the administration to send relief. The distribution is being done through pick-up vans which is accessible at limited places. “We understand that ruthless containment is need of an hour and a very calculated measure by the authorities. My fear is they have not planned about the delivery of food as the majority of the area is low-income families,” said Naim Rabbani, a social activist living in Ramganj area.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/fight-against-corona-boils-down-to-7-ramganj-areas/articleshow/75212520.cms||---
April 18, 2020||Jaipur||Helpline for senior citizens launched||Jaipur: In a joint effort by Jaipur district administration and J K Lakshmipat University, a dedicated toll-free helpline service for senior citizens ‘Sharing Caring’ was launched on Friday. This initiative will provide assistance in the backdrop of Covid-19 crisis. District collector Joga Ram said that the helpline number 7428518030 will be operated by faculty members of the university, staff, senior students and volunteers from 9am to 7pm. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/helpline-for-senior-citizens-launched/articleshow/75212528.cms||---
April 18, 2020||Lucknow||UP: Hand held power bills from April 20||LUCKNOW: In keeping with Centre’s guidelines, UPPCL will resume hand-held billing system for commercial and industrial consumers from April 20. Power bills of domestic consumers will be issued on basis of consumption over last three months. UPPCL chairman and principal secretary energy Arvind Kumar issued these directives on Friday. He said meter readers will be issued special passes to allow them entry into premises of commercial and industrial establishment. Domestic consumers, Kumar said, can also pay their bill through e-nivaran mobile application and by logging into website www.upenergy.in.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/hand-held-power-bills-from-apr-20/articleshow/75212538.cms||---
April 18, 2020||Ahmedabad||Startup makes portable UV sterilizer to fight Covid-19||AHMEDABAD: Are you worried that your mobile phones, keys or currency notes could be carrying the Covid-19 virus after you stepped out to buy essential items during the lockdown? It would be natural for people to worry about milk pouches, groceries and other items that were handled by someone carrying the pandemic virus. A startup has produced an ultraviolet radiation-based surface sterilizer to kill viruses and microorganisms on surfaces. The sterilizer, about nine inches long, six inches wide and six inches high, can be used in homes, offices and other establishments to sterilize items that people suspect are contaminated with the coronavirus. Using the resources of iCreate, Prasen Vinchurkar and his team at Red Carbon TechnoHub, has produced about 100 units of the sterilizer and donated these to a number of government offices. The steriliser has a market price of Rs 1,995, but is being sold at a no-profit price of Rs 1,500 apiece. “All one has to do is plug the sterilizer into a power connection and put in its field for ten minutes on each side. The high-energy radiation destroys the RNA and DNA of viruses and microorganisms,” explains Vinchurkar, 33, director, R&D, Red Carbon TechnoHub. He said it can be useful in the fight against Covid-19 as people still have to step out to buy essential items. Anupam Jalote, CEO of iCreate, said, “It is a matter of pride that our team has been able to deliver fully functional products to the public just when it was most needed. The project of Vinchurkar and his team comprising of Ashish and Vijay, was funded by DST Nidhi Prayas.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/startup-makes-portable-uv-sterilizer-to-fight-covid/articleshow/75211594.cms||---
April 18, 2020||Ahmedabad||Ahmedabad girl tests +ve 6 times, -ve twice and inconclusive once!||AHMEDABAD: She was one of the first coronavirus cases in the city. Thirty-two days of hospitalization, six positive tests, one inconclusive and two negative tests later, the 21-year-old girl who returned from the US and developed Covid-19 symptoms is yet to be discharged from the hospital. The girl, a resident of a bungalow in Ramdevnagar, was admitted in Sardar Vallabhbhai Patel Hospital on March 17. Admitted with Covid-19 symptoms after her return from the US on March 14 and hospitalized on March 17, the youngster has spent 30 days in the hospital and continues to be still under treatment. City municipal commissioner Vjay Nehra said the girl along with her driver have not been declared “recovered” yet. Their case has been referred to the Union health ministry and National Institute of Virology, Pune. Deputy municipal commissioner (health) Dr Om Prakash Machra said the girl had arrived in Ahmedabad on March 11 from New York. She tested positive after catching the infection either in the US or on the flight and was admitted on March 17. “After testing positive on March 17, she tested positive again on March 23. On March 27, her test came negative but again tested positive on March 29. On April 3 and 7, her tests came back positive again. On April 12, her test was inconclusive. Repeat test on April 13 again came back positive. On April 16, her test has come back negative,” said Dr Machra, elaborating on the medically ambiguous case. The DyMC said that her driver is also under treatment for the past 27 days. His last report has tested positive. As per guidelines, patients who do not recover in 14 days have to be reported to the Union health ministry. “Both cases have been reported to the central government,” said Dr Machra.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/32-days-on-21-yr-old-still-in-hosp/articleshow/75211599.cms||Himanshu Kaushik
April 18, 2020||Nagpur||Lockdown leaves civilians in Kamptee cantonment short of essentials||Nagpur: Civilian residents of Kamptee cantonment have complained that lockdown imposed by the army authorities had left them short of supplies. For a population of 6000 civilians, the authorities are only allowing 2 vegetable vendors thrice a week for limited hours. Milk from cowherds within the cantonment was allowed to be taken out but there is no supply inside, says an email by Kamptee Cantonment Nagrik Mandal (KCNM) to district collector Ravindra Thakare and member of parliament from Ramtek Krupal Tumane. Within the cantonment area, there are no facilities like ATM, medical shops or even grocery stores, the email says. A week ago, the cantonment authorities had restricted entry ofvendors thrice a week— Mondays, Wednesdays, and Fridays— for three hours each during morning and evening. All roads to cantonment except one were blocked and trenches dug to prevent access. This also led to a section of residents taking a long detour to go in and out of the cantonment. The civilians live in The Mall and Gora Bazar areas of the cantonment. “Things worsened on Friday. Despite movement being allowed on this day, there was virtual curfew in the area. Even milkmen were not allowed to enter. On the other hand, there were no restrictions on the army personnel,” said Premendra Wahie, the president of Nagrik Mandal. Wahie said, “the two vehicles allowed for vegetables are a three-wheeler and a pick up vehicle The vegetable vendors could not enter as they were not issued cards. Milk is being allowed to be taken out for supplies to dairies, but it cannot be sold to civilians inside.” Dipendra Nath, a resident, said he was not allowed to go for even buying medicines for his child. CEO cantonment board Abhijit Sanad said, “The issues raised by the civilians will be addressed in a meeting on Saturday.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/lockdown-leaves-civilians-in-kamptee-cantonment-short-of-essentials/articleshow/75210334.cms||Shishir Arya
April 18, 2020||Mysuru||Lockdown plugs flow of effluents to Cauvery; river flows pure again||Madikeri: In cities across India, many have observed a marked difference in the quality of air since the lockdown came into force, coupled with an equally sharp decline in noise pollution . However, it is not just the city-dwellers who have tasted the sweeter fruits of the lockdown; the closure of industries has resulted in many rivers across India getting a fresh lease of life, as the flow of contaminating effluents has stopped almost entirely. One of the rivers where this difference is particularly visible is the Cauvery, which, in some places, is flowing in all its pure glory. Data with the Karnataka State Pollution Control Board (KSPCB) indicates that the quality of water of River Cauvery in some places is at A – a healthy indicator – and at B in many more spots. This is in sharp contrast to the level of purity recorded prior to the lockdown, wherein the pollution level was much worse, at C. The quality of water of the River Cauvery is tested once every month, and samples are collected at Bhagamandala, Napoklu, Dubare and Kushalnagar. The latest report, compiled with figures collected after the enforcement of the lockdown, shows that the quality of water is at A in most places in Kodagu, where the Cauvery originates. KSPCB’s regional officer for Kodagu GR Ganeshan attributed the improvement in the quality of the Cauvery’s waters to the decline in commercial activities in all villages and towns in Kodagu. “Consequently, no pollutants are flowing into the river, and the water is very clear in some places,” he said. Convener of the Cleanup Cauvery Movement for Karnataka MR Chandramohan said that unchecked growth of the tourism industry in the hilly district, illegal mining operations and thoughtless development projects had resulted in the Cauvery getting overly polluted. Chinnappa, a retired additional conservator of forests, said that it would not be a bad idea to enforce a lockdown for a week once every six months, during which the river could be cleaned thoroughly. Crack down on home stays Member of Mysore Nature Group and environmentalist S Shylajesh lamented how tourism had itself been responsible for the sector’s death in the hilly district. “Earlier, we took a vacation to places like Kodagu or to pilgrimage centres once a year, but times have changed. Now, people, particularly youngsters are going on tours every weekend. This has resulted in an increase in the number of resorts, hotels and homestays in ecologically sensitive areas. One hopes that people realise, after the lockdown, how nature has a way of cleaning itself. The government must adopt stringent policies, and close down homestays and resorts that have come at the cost of forest land,” Shylajesh told TOI. Manu K, founder of Mysore Amateur Naturalists said that this could serve as a wake-up call to governments across the world. “They should get together and chalk out a plan to restore the ecological balance. The Covid-19 pandemic is a lesson to all of us, and a blessing in disguise. There should be a region-wise lockdown once every month,” said Manu.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mysuru/lockdown-plugs-flow-of-effluents-to-cauvery-river-flows-pure-again/articleshow/75207190.cms||G RAJENDRA
April 18, 2020||Jaipur||Rajasthan lockdown: Farmers a worried lot as crops lie unsold in fields||JAISALMER: The condition of farmers is getting worse due to the ongoing lockdown in the country. The crops have been harvested, but farmers are unable to sell their produce and are not getting proper price for their crops. Moreover, the farmers are concerned as western disturbance is active which could cause rain and storms. In Barmer, jeera crop worth Rs 1,500 crore has been harvested and is lying in the fields. Usually, the produce is sold in Unjha market of Gujarat which is closed. Transportation has been stopped due to the lockdown, thus, the crops are lying in fields. The Centre has directed that Rabi crop of wheat and rice be purchased on minimum support price, but jeera and isabgol have been excluded. Farmers are unable to sell their crops while they have taken loan from moneylenders and had to repay in March-April. In such a situation, the farmers have asked the Centre and state to purchase jeera and isabgol on MSP. There was a time when farmers of Barmer were facing continuous drought but now Barmer has forayed into oil, lignite, energy and other sectors. Similarly, in many areas there are reserves of potable water and nothing is impossible for the farmers now. Apart from horticulture, there has been bumper yield of jeera and isabgol. In Baytu, Sheo, Gardra road and Girab areas of Barmer, the farmers have produced jeera worth Rs 20 lakh.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/farmers-a-worried-lot-as-crops-lie-unsold-in-fields/articleshow/75212546.cms||---
April 18, 2020||Lucknow||Lucknow: Garbage collection drive still a failure||LUCKNOW: Some prominent areas have been left out of the drive launched by Lucknow Municipal Corporation and Eco-Green to clean and sanitise the city. According to residents, even after several complaints, nothing has been done. TimesViewThe civic authority is sanitizing the city after Covid-19 outbreak to check spread of infection, but the purpose will be defeated if some areas are left out. LMC should take feedback from the citizens to identify gaps in its drive and plug them.Pulkit Jaiswal of Nishatganj said, “Eco-Green workers only come once or twice in a week. That is the reason we hired private workers for garbage collection in our locality. However, they have also stopped coming due to the lockdown. As a result, garbage is being thrown on roads.” In Dalibagh Colony, lined with government housing complexes, door-to-door garbage collection has been off for months. Residents hired private workers but they have stopped coming. “The colony is being ignored despite being in a VIP area next to the DGP office. A large dumpster kept here has also been removed. Even sweeping on the roads is irregular,” said Shraddha Dixit. A similar situation was found in Indiranagar sector 9. “They have removed the dumpster kept in our locality. Now, we are throwing garbage in the open,” said Utkarsh Verma. LMC environment engineer Pankaj Bhusan said, “We are trying to cover maximum households in the city.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/garbage-collection-drive-still-a-failure/articleshow/75212549.cms||---
April 18, 2020||Mangaluru||70 test negative in Thokkottu||Mangaluru: Out of 107 samples collected from people residing in Thokkottu, 70 tested negative for Covid-19, and the reports of 37 are awaited, on a day when the district did not report any positive cases. It may be recalled that the Dakshina Kannada district administration had held a mass throat swab collection camp in Chembugudde near Thokkottu, in the city’s outskirts, on Monday. Mass swab collection was initiated in the wake of a patient from Thokkottu testing positive for Covid-19. As many as 107 people, including Mangaluru MLA U T Khader, had participated in the camp. Khader said, “We are waiting for the results of 37 samples. It may be ready by tomorrow. Mass collection of throat swabs was necessitated after a person from Thokkottu tested positive for Covid-19. The patient has told health staff that he had offered namaz at the Juma Masjid in Chembugudde, and also visited many places in Thokkottu.” The health department has also been collecting throat swabs from residents within a 7km radius of patients in Bantwal, Belthangady, Sullia and Puttur, if they show any symptoms of influenza or severe acute respiratory infection (SARI). Meanwhile, the two coastal districts of Dakshina Kannada and Udupi, kept their Covid-19 slate clean for the 12th and 18th day, respectively, with no positive cases being reported on Thursday. While in Dakshina Kannada, the last positive case reported, its 12th, was on April 4, in Udupi, two patients tested positive on March 29, which were the second and third cases testing positive for the disease in that district. Since then, active cases in Dakshina Kannada have dropped to three, and there is one Covid-19 case in Udupi. While three Covid-19 patients in Udupi were discharged from hospitals, three are undergoing treatment in Dakshina Kannada. Unauthorised clinic sealed Health department officials conducted a raid and sealed an unauthorised clinic at Surathkal on Thursday. The private clinic was run by a doctor whose registration had expired in 2017. Health department officials directed the doctor not to open the clinic till further orders. District health and family welfare officer Dr Ramachandra Bairy has requested all hospitals, clinics, laboratories, homoeopathy clinics, Ayush clinics and other medical establishments to renew their registration online. “Action under the Karnataka Private Medical Establishment Amendment (KPME) Act will be initiated against those who are not registered,” he warned.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mangaluru/70-test-negative-in-thokkottu/articleshow/75187456.cms||---
April 18, 2020||Jaipur||2 held for fake post on corona in Chomu||Jaipur: Police have come down heavily on people for creating rumours on coronavirus in the state. Two persons were arrested in Chomu for posting objectionable content on social media. While one of the persons arrested had written a fake post about the spread of coronavirus, the other one had written provocative text against a minority community. The accused were identified as Shubham Pancholi (23) and Kailash Chandra Sharma (30). As police got information about the provocative message, they immediately swung into action and arrested the accused under CrPC Section 151. Hemraj Singh, Station House Officer, Chomu police station said, “Shubham had written a post in an attempt to spread fake news about coronavirus while Kailash had tried to create communal disharmony with his post on social media. We arrested them on Thursday night after we came to know about the content.” Since the beginning of the lockdown, cops have been keeping a strict vigil on social media to prevent spread of fake news regarding coronavirus and at least a dozen people have been arrested for the same. “We have teams who are monitoring all forms of social media to ensure that no one tries to create panic among residents by sending fake messages. Strict action is being taken against those who have been found to be doing so and more arrests are likely in the future,” added a police officer. Although a bailable offence, cops are hopeful that more arrests will act as deterrent for people to avoid posting such messages. An official said, “In times like this, it is crucial that we do not let fake news be spread to create panic. At the same time it is of utmost importance that communal harmony be maintained in this time of crisis. We will take action as and when required to ensure that social media is not misused in such a manner.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/2-held-for-fake-post-on-corona-in-chomu/articleshow/75212539.cms||---
April 18, 2020||Dehradun||Cops help couple tie knot in UP-Uttarakhand border||RUDRAPUR: In a scene straight from a Bollywood potboiler, Uttar Pradesh (UP) resident Khemkaran, 25, arrived at the UP-Uttarakhand border with his family members on Friday but his bride Kavita, 22, couldn’t reach the spot as she didn’t have permission for movement. When police officials deployed at the border got to know about the issue, they saved the day for the bride and the groom. The officials of Uttarakhand Police brought the bride and her kin to the UP-Uttarakhand border on bikes. Later, the officials facilitated the wedding ceremony that took place in a nearby temple in UP. Kailash Chandra Bhatt, station house officer (SHO) of Rudrapur police station, said, “It was indeed a lockdown wedding. The groom hails from UP’s Milak town and the bride is a resident of Rudrapur’s Transit Camp Colony. On humanitarian grounds, we decided to allow the ceremony.” The official added that a small number of people were present at the ceremony and social distancing norms and Covid-19 guidelines like wearing masks and using sanitisers were strictly maintained. Notably, weddings, and other other social and religious events have been restricted in the country so that Covid-19 guidelines of social distancing do not go for a toss.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/cops-help-couple-tie-knot-in-up-ukhand-border/articleshow/75210362.cms||Aakash Ahuja
April 18, 2020||Dehradun||Limca Book of Records documents NIM’s mountaineering feat||UTTARKASHI: Nehru Institute of Mountaineering (NIM), Uttarkashi-based country’s premier institute for adventure sports, achieved a new milestone by getting its name documented in the Limca Book of Records after its mountaineers scaled four virgin peaks, all above 6,000 metres in height. Confirming the report, Colonel Amit Bisht, principal of NIM, told TOI, "A team of eight mountaineers scaled four unnamed and unscaled peaks of altitude 6,566 metres, 6,557 metres, 6,126 metres, and 6,086 metres situated at Raktvan area of Gangotri valley during the joint expedition of NIM and Uttarakhand Tourism Development Board in October, 2018. The Limca Book of Records has registered this achievement as an Indian record as “it was the first time when four virgin peaks (all above 6,000 metres) were scaled by mountaineers in a single attempt”. “We are now planning to register this achievement in the Guinness World Records. Besides, we are also trying to register our expedition of Mount Mumba peak in the Limca Book of Records,” added Col Bisht.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/limca-book-of-records-documents-nims-mountaineering-feat/articleshow/75210382.cms||Abhyudaya Kotnala
April 18, 2020||Jaipur||15 people offer namaz during lockdown in Jaipur, arrested||JAIPUR: City police on Friday arrested 15 persons for praying at a mosque in Kho Nagoriyan police station area. They were arrested for violating the lockdown, which prohibits gathering of five or more persons under CrPC Section 144. Kho Nagoriyan SHO Bhawani Singh said, “We received information that more than a dozen persons were offering prayers at a mosque in our area. So many people gathering together at one place is against the rules of the lockdown and we arrested them for violation.We have been appealing to people to avoid such gatherings.” The persons were arrested under IPC Sections 188 (disobedience to rule promulgated by a public servant), 271 (disobedience to quarantine rule) and other relevant sections. According to the lockdown imposed in the state, no person is supposed to venture out of home unless absolutely necessary which includes for medical treatment, purchase of groceries, banking and few others. Apart from this, people have to stay at home though can apply for lockdown passes from authorities for essential travel.  Cops have been regularly arresting those found violating these rules and seized around 1,000 vehicles. Cops at checkpoints also record the details of the person and the vehicles crossing it on a daily basis||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/15-people-offer-namaz-during-lockdown-in-city-arrested/articleshow/75212564.cms||---
April 18, 2020||Hyderabad||Telangana: Have mercy, review pension cut decision, HC tells govt||HYDERABAD: Wondering whether imposing a drastic cut in the pensions of old people would prove to be counter-productive to the ongoing efforts to counter Covid-19 by the state, the high court on Friday questioned the rationale behind the 50% in the pensions and asked the state to review this decision within five days. The bench of chief justice Raghavendra Singh Chauhan and Justice T Amarnath Goud was hearing pleas filed by Nagali Narayana, a retired headmaster and another woman, Gogineni Laxmi, from Khammam, who was drawing family pension ever since her husband died in 2017. Both the petitioners contended that pension was the sole source of living for them. A major part of it goes towards the purchase of medicines. The government’s decision to cut 50% of their pension came as a rude shock, and they sought suspension of the GO Ms. No. 27 that ordered the cut. CJ Chauhan observed that these days scores of old parents are abandoned by their grown-up sons and daughters. Advocate General BS Prasad told the court that this is not a cut in pension and that this is only a deferment. “The state has imposed this cut on many sections and even the legislators and ministers are also voluntarily relinquishing a major portion of their salaries to spare money for the state to fight against the Covid-19 pandemic,” he said. The bench, while appreciating the relinquishment gestures, however, asked the state to review its decision in respect of old people. “Have mercy on them. It would have been better had the state imposed a nominal cut of 10% or so on the pensions of the older people,” the bench said. The bench also clubbed PILs by senior counsel Satyam Reddy and others who questioned the cut in salaries of employees and pensions along with the current pleas and heard them together. The bench sought to know the number of pensioners the state has as of now and the quantum of money it is spending towards pensions. “New ailments like Covid are already playing havoc with the lives of the people and if the old people and pensioners get affected then the problem gets compounded both for them and for the state,” the CJ said. The bench rejected the suggestion made by the state counsel that the state would reimburse the medical expenditure of old people later. They must have the capacity to spend money on treatment and then the question of claiming reimbursement would arise, it said and sought a report from the state by April 22.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/have-mercy-review-pension-cut-decision-hc-tells-govt/articleshow/75212557.cms||---
April 18, 2020||Patna||Bihar government to help even those without ration cards: Nitish Kumar||PATNA: The state government has so far transferred Rs 948.50 crore in the bank accounts of 94.85 lakh ration card holders across Bihar as part of the financial assistance being provided to poor families in the wake of the nationwide lockdown. “State government is providing Rs1,000 per family to each ration card holder as financial assistance in the wake of lockdown,” CM Nitish Kumar said in a statement issued here on Friday. He said the Rs1,000 amount would soon be transferred in the bank accounts of the rest of the card holders. “It has also been decided to provide assistance to those families which do not have ration cards. Such families will be identified by the village level self-help groups (SHGs) of Jeevika for providing necessary assistance,” the CM said, adding the SHGs have already begun the exercise. Similarly, the state government is providing Rs1,000 per person to the migrant workers and other needy persons stranded outside Bihar. This amount is being paid from the CM Relief Fund by the disaster management department (DMD) under the Mukhya Mantri Vishesh Sahayata Yojana. Nitish said so far 10.11 lakh people of the state stranded in other parts of the country have been provided assistance under this scheme. The amount was transferred directly in their bank accounts. “Still, applications are coming. All eligible applicants will be provided assistance,” the CM said. Apparently perturbed by the 17 new Covid-19 positive cases in the state in the last 72 hours, Nitish called upon people to cooperate with the health workers in door-to-door screening and all those having even little suspicion of being infected should go to the earmarked hospitals for proper screening. People should also disclose their travel history to the doctors, Nitish said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/state-govt-to-help-even-those-without-ration-cards-nitish/articleshow/75210437.cms||---
April 18, 2020||Coimbatore||Industries seek easing of bank loan norms, grants||COIMBATORE: The joint council of industries in the district have demanded a plethora of relief measures for micro, small and medium enterprises (MSMEs) including relaxation of NPA norms, lending norms and interest waivers.The council, including CODISSIA, COINDIA, CII, Siema among others, sought interest waiver on the three month moratorium offered by RBI and interest subsidy upto 6% on loans. In a letter written by the council to the prime minister, finance minister and chief minister, the council said the lockdown is expected to have a long-term bearing on industries resulting in economic slowdown, unemployment and cancellation of orders among a host of other pressing issues. The council suggested that RBI direct all banks to pass on benefits to MSMEs by directing them to change the debt service coverage ratio, and assess the drawing power on lower sales, receivables or lower stocks since sales have generally dipped across all industries. “Sanctioning of funds should not be based on internal ratings and working capital should be fixed at 40% of the turnover. Infusing huge liquidity is the only way forward to rekindle the spirit of entrepreneurship,” stated the letter. Banks should also give a 12 month holiday period for repayment of loans sanctioned currently. They also demanded that the government give a one-year moratorium period for all bank loans. The term loans should be allowed to be repaid over a period of 10 years, instead of the usual five years. Banks should postpone NPA norms from the existing three months to at least one year, so the industry gets a breather.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/industries-seek-easing-of-bank-loan-norms-grants/articleshow/75211609.cms||---
April 18, 2020||Jaipur||Beneficiaries to get flour under food Act||Jaipur: Flour will be distributed in place of wheat to the beneficiaries of the National Food Security (NFS) scheme in the curfew-bound areas of the state. Food and civil supplies minister Ramesh Chand Meena said that the wheat given to the beneficiaries of the curfew-affected areas will be directly lifted from the Food Corporation of India (FCI) and will be given to the flour mills. This arrangement will be made from May in the entire state. Meena said that that 10, 20, 25 and 50 kg packets will be prepared by flour mills. Flour will be distributed according to the prescribed procedure, reducing the proportionate waste from the quantity of wheat guaranteed to the beneficiaries according to their eligibility. If any beneficiary asks for wheat in place of flour, wheat will be made available to him, he said. The minister said that after delivering the flour from the mills to the fair price shops, it will be entered into the point of sale machines before distribution to the beneficiaries. Grinding, packing, transportation, loading and unloading expenses of wheat will be borne by the liquid fund, he said. Meena said that guidelines have been issued to keep the flour mills outside the curfew areas opened.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/beneficiaries-to-get-flour-under-food-act/articleshow/75212591.cms||---
April 18, 2020||Nagpur||New docs to get online registration from MMC, renewal period also extended||Nagpur: Looking at this scenario of Covid-19 pandemic, the Maharashtra medical council (MMC) has taken few important steps to help the students who have completed their MBBS degree and also for Registered medical practitioners. New MBBS graduates will now get their MMC registration number online. On the same line, registered medical practitioners, whose registration number is pending for renewal in the month of March and April got the extension up to June 2020. Vice president of Maharashtra medical council Dr Vinky Rughwani told that the students who have completed internship program of one year after MBBS are bound to get permanent registration from Maharashtra Medical Council for which they need to apply online. After this online application they have to present their original documents at Maharashtra medical council office at Mumbai. Most of the students have already applied online for this purpose but many of them are yet to verify their documents at the concerned office at Mumbai due to difficulties they are facing because of lockdown situation and absence of courier services. Looking at these difficulties faced by the students, Maharashtra medical council has taken an important decision that they will be sending a format to all medical colleges run under Maharashtra university of health sciences and deemed universities in Maharashtra. MMC will ask them to send the details of the students about passing of MBBS examination and their internship period. After getting reply from the concerned college, the student will be awarded permanent registration number and hence original document verification of it at MMC office level at Mumbai will not be required. There are 40 medical colleges run under MUHS and 8 medical colleges under deemed universities in the state of Maharashtra.Dr Rughwani said that MMC has also taken an important step by giving extension for renewal of registration to all the Registered medical practitioners whose previous registration is going to be completed in the months of March, April and may 2020. Now they can renew their registration upto 30 june 2020. Practitioners were facing difficulty in completing the formalities due to lockdown situation. Every practitioner registered under Maharashtra medical council needs to renew his registration every 5 years. “This facility of extension of three months will definitely be benefitial to many of practitioners,” said Dr Rughwani.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/new-docs-to-get-online-registration-from-mmc-renewal-period-also-extended/articleshow/75208596.cms||Chaitanya Deshpande
April 18, 2020||Dehradun||Five women, who had gone to Markaz, booked for hiding travel history||ROORKEE: Five women, from different localities of Manglaur, were booked on Friday by city police after it was found out that they had gone to Delhi’s Nizamuddin Markaz, the Tablighi Jamaat headquarters, along with their husbands this year. Going against the guidelines regarding Covid-19, these women did not disclose their travel history to the administration. Police have now quarantined them in their respective homes. The move comes after the local intelligence unit (LIU) gave inputs to Manglaur police in this regard. Police have booked them under sections 188 (disobedience of order of public server), 269 (negligence act to spread infectious diseases), 336 (endangering act on the safety of others) of the Indian Penal Code and section 51(B) of the Disaster Management Act, 2005. According to reports, these women had visited Markaz along with their spouses on January 15 and had returned to Manglaur on February 28. Though, their husbands disclosed their travel history to police and were quarantined in their homes but these women did not come out. “LIU gathered information about all those who concealed their travel history from police,” LIU sub-inspector Mohammad Gulfam told TOI.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/five-women-who-had-gone-to-markaz-booked-for-hiding-travel-history/articleshow/75210397.cms||Tapan Susheel
April 18, 2020||Jaipur||Rehmani community worst-hit by virus||Jaipur: An eerie silence grips the Rehmani community dominated mohallas at the heart of pandemic-hit Ramganj. The close knit community of 12,000 people found themselves in the middle of an outbreak with its 138 members tested Covid-19 positive. Besides, 250 people are in isolation at government facilities and over 500 quarantined in their places. The epicentre in this hotspot is a building at Badi Rehmani Masjid whose all 78 members have been affected, including 21 positive. The rest have been put under quarantine either at government facilities or at their portion of the building. “It is true that the community is worst-affected by the virus and almost every person has a close relative infected. All positive cases are relatives of each other which show how living close to each other backfired,” said Quyum Akhtar, former Waqf and housing board member who belongs to the community. It all started with a person who returned from Oman testing positive in Walled City. He happened to be from the community. He went meeting his relatives and spent considerable time in the community mosque. The community dominated areas such as Chote and Bade Rahemani, Mohalla Bisayatian, Mehro Ka Rasta and Under Mahadev, Cheetavalan, Jaganshah Khura, Mohalla Pakan are among those being closely monitored by the local administration. They are artisans dealing in shoe making, handicrafts and jewellery business. The high rate of infection among the community is paying the price of showing resistance for screening for almost a week, said a doctor, who was part of the screening team which scanned people in area until a week ago. “The community which lives close to each other has even hide their members and moved them from one terrace to another when health workers went for screening,” said a doctor, who warned still the sense of fear is preventing its members to come for screening. The community leaders are also finding if very difficult to convince their members. “The irrational thinking added with illiteracy has made them blind to see that government is trying to save their lives not victimizing or stigmizing them,” said Akhter.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/rehmani-community-worst-hit-by-virus/articleshow/75212580.cms||Shoeb Khan
April 18, 2020||Goa||Now, WhatsApp meter readings for power bills||Panaji: The electricity department has given consumers the option of sending meter readings via WhatsApp or SMS so they can generate bills during the lockdown. The option is for consumers of areas where meter readers cannot reach. “Meter readers will go to every house and establishment but if any house remains closed, the consumer can send the meter reading through WhatsApp,” chief electrical engineer Raghuvir Keni said. “The department has activated a WhatsApp number + 917972980575 on which consumers having installations within the state can post a photo of their meter reading, indicating the figures displayed on the meter’s LCD display specific to kWh,” he added. The directions have come in from the Joint Electricity Regulatory Commission (JERC), he said. “The photo should include the details of the meter as well. The consumer should post the consumer account (CA) number, location and name as per the bill. The readings have to be provided in the first week of the month,” Keni added After verifying the information, the department will decide whether to consider the readings for bill generation. The JERC has also introduced a moratorium on payment of fixed charges to all industrial and commercial consumers for bills raised between March 24 and June 30. “These deferred charges shall be recovered in an equated manner over next three bills to be raised after June 30,” JERC stated in its order.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/now-whatsapp-meter-readings-for-power-bills/articleshow/75212597.cms||---
April 18, 2020||Meerut||Govt doc attacked by colony residents amid fear that he may spread Covid-19||Meerut: A government doctor received fracture in his hand in a brutal attack by residents of his upscale society in Meerut who wanted him to vacate his house over fear that he may “spread” novel coronavirus in the colony. Dr Prashant Bhatnagar is assistant professor at community medicine in Lala Lajpat Rai Memorial Medical College.He said, “I have been living in Sector 6 of Shastri Nagar area in Meerut for the last seven years with my family. However, now, these people fear that doctors living in the locality might end up infecting them with coronavirus. The colony residents started forcing me to vacate the house here. When I protested, they thrashed me leading to a fracture in my right hand.”An FIR has been filed against three persons, RS Yadav, Yaduveer and Jugal Sahni under IPC sections 325 (punishment for voluntarily causing grievous hurt) and 504 (intentional insult with intent to provoke breach of the peace).Dr Bhatnagar further said, “I am not even posted in the Covid-19 ward. So locals should keep their doubts aside and not thrash the medical staff.”Meerut police had a different version to offer. Superintendent of police (city) Akhilesh Narayan Singh said, “The altercation happened over the placement of a guard cabin outside the doctor’s house. The cabin is put outside different houses from time to time. But the doctor protested against its placement outside his house as it blocked his car parking. He was hurt in the altercation and an FIR has been filed in the matter.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/meerut/govt-doc-attacked-by-colony-residents-amid-fear-that-he-may-spread-covid-19/articleshow/75210399.cms||Ishita Bhatia
April 18, 2020||Meerut||Meerut reports 2nd Covid-19 death, 11 fresh cases in region||MEERUT: Meerut recorded its second death due to novel coronavirus early on Friday. With this, the death toll in the state rose to 14. A 57-year-old man, contact of a Tablighi Jamaat member who was traced from Jali Kothi area and admitted at LLRM Medical College on April 12, died early on Friday. Meanwhile, one person tested positive in Meerut and Shamli each, two tested positive in Bulandshahr and seven tested positive for Covid-19 in Saharanpur on Friday. with the fresh cases, the district tally of Meerut reached 70 (including one admitted in Kanpur), Saharanpur 63 (including 12 admitted in Lucknow), Shamli 18 and Bulanddshahr tally rose to 16. Meerut district surveillance officer Dr Vishwas Chaudhary said, “The 57-year-old patient who died was traced from Jali Kothi area and was a case of chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (COPD). He suddenly collapsed early on Friday, after which his last rites were performed in the presence of limited people as per the norms. He was contact of a Jamaati.” The first death in Meerut was that of a 72-year-old man – the father-in-law of the Bulanddshahr man who was the first case in Meerut and had travelled from Amravati to Meerut in two trains. His body was wrapped in three layers and his last rites were completed as per the norms. Chief medical officer Dr Raj Kumar said, “One person tested positive for coronavirus in Meerut on Friday. He is from Lakhipura area, which is being sealed and contact tracing being done there. He is also contact of a Jamaati.” Saharanpur CMO Dr BS Sodhi said, “As many as seven cases tested positive in Saharanpur on Friday. All of them had returned from a Jamaat in Gujarat and are being quarantined in Deoband.” Bulandshahr CMO Dr KN Tiwari said, “Two cases tested positive in Bulandshahr on Friday, taking the total tally to 16. One of the two positive patients is the brother of an already Covid-19 positive person who had attended the Tablighi Jamaat. His contacts have been put into quarantine and sampling is being done.” The LLRM Medical College microbiology laboratory tested one positive case in Meerut, Shamli and Bulandshahr each, and other reports came from Aligarh and Noida. Meanwhile, one 71-year-old man recovered from Covid-19 in Bulandshahr.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/meerut/meerut-reports-2nd-covid-19-death-11-fresh-cases-in-region/articleshow/75210388.cms||Ishita Bhatia
April 18, 2020||Nagpur||NO2 levels drop steeply as lockdown stops fossil fuel burning||Nagpur: The drop in consumption in fossil fuels during the lockdown has led to a significant decline in the levels of toxic pollutant nitrogen dioxide (NO2) across the country. The latest analysis done by Lauri Myllyvirta and Sunil Dahiya of the Centre for Research on Energy and Clean Air (CREA) reveals that many Indian cities including Nagpur, Chennai, Mumbai, Bengaluru, Delhi, Hyderabad, Kolkata, Pune and hotspots in Madhya Pradesh, Odisha, Jharkhand, Bihar and Madhya Pradesh have witnessed a drastic fall in NO2 pollution. NO2 is a harmful pollutant responsible for an estimated 3.5 lakh new cases of child asthma and 16,000 premature deaths per year in the country. It is also a key contributor to particulate matter 2.5 formation as it plays a significant role in secondary particulate formation. According to the analysis, which is based on Sentinel-5P TROPOMI satellite data along with that of Continuous Ambient Air Quality Monitoring System, the reduction in pollution levels is a result of decreasing fossil fuel consumption in transportation, industrial and energy sector. The data of two weeks before and two weeks during the lockdown has been compared. The analysis states reduction of consumption of diesel, petrol and other petroleum products in the transportation sector within cities decreased by 24% in March this year, compared to March last year. Most of the fall this year has been reported post the lockdown. “Overall, consumption of petroleum products in India decreased 18% during the same period,” it stated. Apart from this, there was also a fall in overall power demand and associated coal consumption by the power generation facilities across the country. “There was a 19% overall reduction in power generation in India in two weeks after March 24, compared to power generation during two weeks before that. Coal based power generation reduced by 26% during the same period,” the analysis stated. Data compiled by CREA shows that in Nagpur, the total electricity generation from power plants including Koradi, Khaparkheda, Mouda I and II and APML Tiroda was 2104.73 Mega Unit (MU) between March 11-24. However after the lockdown, the generation dropped to 1362.97 MU between March 25 – April 7. Analysts have pointed out that the reduction seen in air pollution levels across the country was only temporary due to lockdown measures. Stating that it was vital to avoid pollution bouncing back as the economy turns a corner and the coronavirus crisis passes, CREA suggested a shift from the current highly fossil fuel dependent economy to clean energy based systems. It added that a shift in the transportation system towards more intensive public transportation was needed. “Strengthening emission standards for polluting industries and enforcing full implementation with time bound targets is also needed,” the analysis stated.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/no2-levels-drop-steeply-as-lockdown-stops-fossil-fuel-burning/articleshow/75210422.cms||Manka Behl
April 18, 2020||Coimbatore||Conservancy workers contribute Rs 1.20 lakh||UDHAGAMANDALAM: Around 300 sanitary workers attached to the Ooty municipality handed over a sum of Rs 1.20 lakh to the district collector towards chief minister’s relief fund for coronavirus. As many as 165 permanent sanitary workers and 150 contract workers from the Ooty municipality collected at least Rs 500 per head for the relief fund. “In this crisis, we thought we should contribute at least some amount to the CM’s relief fund. Most of us contributed Rs 500 each and some more according to their affordability,” said R Palanisamy, president, Nilgiris Sanitary Workers’ Association. J Innocent Divya, Nilgiris collector, after receiving the cheque from the workers,said, “You are doing a great service to the society in this crisis period. Now, with contributing to the CM’s relief fund, you have gone beyond the call of duty”.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/conservancy-workers-contribute-rs-1-20-lakh/articleshow/75211619.cms||---
April 18, 2020||Mysuru||3 more test +ve in Mandya, 1 in DK dist||Mandya/Mangaluru: Three more Covid-19 cases were reported from Mandya on Friday, while Dakshina Kannada district recorded one positive case. Mandya DC Venkatesh informed that the three new patients were in close contact with patient 171, who had returned after attending the Tablighi Jamat event in Delhi and was staying in Malavalli. With this, Tablighi Jamaat related Covid-19 cases rose to 10 in the district. The DC said all primary and secondary contacts of the new patients are put in home quarantine. Dakshina Kannada district reported its 13th Covid-19 case after a person, who travelled to Delhi, tested positive on Friday. At the same time, three persons, who were undergoing treatment at District Wenlock Hospital have been discharged after their samples tested negative. The 39-year-old from Uppinangady who tested positive was under quarantine at a government facility in the city after his return from Delhi. Currently, he is the only patient with the disease undergoing treatment in the district. Rush to withdraw money Following rumours that banks are running out of money, huge crowds were witnessed in front of ATMs in some taluks and villages of the district on Friday. This led to concern among the authorities as people did not bother to maintain social distancing. TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mysuru/3-more-test-ve-in-mandya-1-in-dk-dist/articleshow/75207286.cms||---
April 18, 2020||Dehradun||Dehradun admin conducts training session for food delivery agents||DEHRADUN: District administration, along with Food Safety and Standards Authority of India (FSSAI), conducted a training session for the delivery agents working for online food delivery platforms like Swiggy, Zomato, and Dominos on Friday. The officials said that training was imparted to over 170 delivery agents by the members of the planning team, a part of district’s Covid-19 team. There were a maximum of 50 people in each batch for the training that was imparted to ensure that social distancing norms are being followed while delivering food. The training comes in the wake of a 19-year-old delivery agent being tested positive for coronavirus in New Delhi. More than 70 families have been kept under quarantine in the national capital after the young delivery agent tested positive for the virus. Dr Anuj Dimri, who led the training session, told TOI, “The training session is significant for people involved in outdoor duties during times of Covid-19 outbreak. The session was especially designed for the delivery agents as they constantly travel to different places to deliver food supplies. Apart from explaining them the importance of undergoing thermal scanning, the candidates were also informed about safety procedures and the symptoms of the coronavirus and ways to maintain personal hygiene”. The planning team has also trained the staff at hotels, which have been converted into quarantine centres, and the employees of various government departments — police, Jal Santhan, Uttarakhand Power Corporation Limited, and others — which are actively working in times of a pandemic, the official added. Ganesh Kandwal, district food safety officer at FSSAI, told TOI “The training will make a huge difference in our fight against coronavirus. Apart from the delivery agents, the people working at community kitchens, which are serving food to over 2,500 people every day, have also been trained. The key reasons behind organising these training sessions are — ensuring compliance of Food Safety Acts, safety of direct food handlers, and the safety people receiving supplies from the delivery agents.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/doon-admin-conducts-training-session-for-food-delivery-agents/articleshow/75210433.cms||---
April 18, 2020||Hyderabad||135 UK nationals flown back home||HYDERABAD: A flight with 135 UK nationals left the city for London via Ahmedabad on Friday. The special British Airways flight, BA-9116 (Arrivals)/BA-9117 (Departures), landed in Hyderabad on Friday at 4.59 pm from Bahrain and departed at 6:46 PM to Ahmedabad, from where more UK nationals were to be flown to Bahrain and then onwards to London. Shivaji Shinde, who lives in London, was elated after his wife and daughter were able to secure seats on the flight. Thanking the British high commission, he said: “My wife was stuck in Huzurabad in Karminagar since the lockdown. She had gone to visit her parents. Now finally she will be able to get back home.” “I am pleased to see over 130 British nationals and their close dependents from Telangana and AP on their way back home this evening. I am delighted we’ve so far been able to help more than 4,000 British travellers return home from across India,” said Andrew Fleming, British deputy high commissioner for Telangana and AP.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/135-uk-nationals-flown-back-home/articleshow/75211617.cms||Uttara Varma
April 18, 2020||Hyderabad||Lockdown heroes: Serving hot meals to starving stomachs||HYDERABAD: Looking at homeless people going without food during lockdown, a man decided to put his learning to use to help the needy. T Vinay Kumar, a diploma holder in hotel management, has been cooking and serving it warm and hot to the homeless in different areas of the city, including Nampally, Bowenpally, Manikonda and other places. Vinay begins cooking near NMDC, Masab Tank, around 2 pm and completes the cooking within a few hours. At around 7pm, he puts the food in his car and drives around serving the hot meal to those who he finds hungry on the road. “I am moved to tears when children come running for food,” Vinay told TOI. After his graduation, Vinay did a two-year diploma course in hotel management but ventured into a different area of working. He worked as a manager in a bank in Dubai for a few years and returned to India to set up his own recruitment agency. The lockdown brought back the cooking skills in him, which he learnt 15 years ago, as he saw people starving on the roads. A couple of volunteers joined him in the task of cutting vegetables. Another place he has noticed is the Gandhi Hospital area where many homeless people are found on the roads starving and waiting for food. A number of migrant labourers at Nampally, Khairatabad, Panjagutta, Ameerpet and Balkampet are being provided food by Vinay. Though he wants to serve hot meals to starving stomachs, some needy families have requested him for provisions, which he gives. “Since some are not sure where their next meal would come from, they request for food packets so they can have it the next morning. We are meeting that need too,” the 34-year-old, who stays in Old Bowenpally said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/serving-hot-meals-to-starving-stomachs/articleshow/75211670.cms||Ch Sushil Rao
April 18, 2020||Vadodara||Lockdown brings out the messiah in Vadodara cops||Vadodara: At 7 am, she resumes duty and serves eight hours on the trot with her colleagues on the city roads amid the lockdown. But even after reaching home, police sub-inspector, H D Vyas has no time to take rest. She freshens up a bit and reaches the city police headquarters in her khakhis to serve another duty — cook food! Vyas and a team of eight women cops have been tirelessly preparing food for hundreds of homeless persons in the city. “Since the lockdown, those people staying under the flyovers and by the roadside are in a terrible shape. They don’t have access to food and many of them go hungry. We had been getting calls from many citizens who have pointed out their pathetic condition,” said Saroj Kumari, DCP (administration and HQ). “Our teams who patrol the city too noticed how the hapless roadside dwellers were going hungry. So we decided to feed them. A team of women cops agreed to prepare food after their duty hours. It is a great gesture from them in this hour of crisis,” Kumari told TOI. The women cops include a PSI, head constables and constables who prepare puri-bhaaji, rice and other items which is later served to over 400 homeless persons in different areas of the city for dinner. The police said that it takes every possible precaution to ensure that the food is prepeared hygienically. “Many homeless persons are unable to get food so we decided to put in extra hours for ensuring that they don’t go hungry. Yes, it’s tad tiring to cook for so many people after finishing duty hours, but if we don’t do it the needy will go to sleep with empty stomachs. This is the humane side of the cops. We just don’t control crime. We also help people in the time of crisis,” Vyas added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/lockdown-brings-out-the-messiah-in-vadodara-cops/articleshow/75209652.cms||Tushar Tere
April 18, 2020||Meerut||Govt-run kitchen found using rotten potatoes for meals meant for poor||Meerut: A video footage purportedly showing a man peeling rotten potatoes for meals meant for the poor in district administration’s community kitchen was shared widely on various social media platforms, prompting senior officials to rush to the kitchen and take stock of things there. An inquiry has been ordered.According to sources, close to 10,000 food packets are being prepared daily for the needy at the kitchen established in a college in Meerut. The video accessed by TOI shows cooks preparing food from rotten potatoes.Meerut’s chief development officer (CDO) Isha Duhan said, “Prima facie, the cooked vegetables appeared fine when I tasted it. But, since the doubt has come up, an inquiry is being set up involving officials of district administration and food inspectors. A supervisor has been suspended.” Pictures and videos clearly show the cook peeling rotten potatoes.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/meerut/govt-run-kitchen-found-using-rotten-potatoes-for-meals-meant-for-poor/articleshow/75210441.cms||Sandeep Rai
April 18, 2020||Coimbatore||Rs 1 crore sought for family of deceased doctor||UDHAGAMANDALAM: The state government doctors’ association has written to the state health secretary seeking financial compensation of Rs 1 crore for the family of a doctor who died on Wednesday of dengue shock syndrome and scrub typhus. Dr V Jayamohan, the deceased, was working as a medical officer at a primary health centre in Thengumarahada village in the Nilgiris. The letter states that the doctor’s death is a case of “occupational hazard” and merits compensation. The letter said the doctor was on duty in an inaccessible area infested with mosquitoes and mites, which led to him contracting dengue and scrub typhus (zoonotic disease).||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/rs-1-cr-sought-for-family-of-deceased-doc/articleshow/75211632.cms||---
April 18, 2020||Coimbatore||Alternative accommodation for sanitary workers in Ooty||UDHAGAMANDALAM: As many as 93 sanitary workers, residents of containment area in Kandal in Ooty, were housed in a government school and hostel in the town on Friday as they found it difficult to come to work from the sealed area. After three Covid-19 positive cases were reported, the Kandal area was sealed to an extent of three kilometres radius as part of containment plan on April 1. Ninety-three sanitary workers of the Ooty municipality, including 43 women, are from Kandal area. Initially, the district administration and the municipality made some arrangements so that the workers could attend duty. But containment measures were made stringent after the third case was reported from the area a few days ago. “It was difficult for us to get out of the area in the morning and to get back after work as police personnel are very strict about movement of people,” said president of the Nilgiri Sanitary Workers’ Association R Palanisamy of Kandal. “We brought it to the notice of the senior officials and the collector.” Authorities identified a municipal school and a women’s hostel in the town for their stay. “While 50 men occupy the municipal school in Upper Bazar, the women were accommodated in a hostel on Gaden Road,” Ooty municipal commissioner Saraswathi said. “Both the places have kitchens. Local philanthropists are kind enough to provide groceries and other required items.” TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/alternative-accommodation-for-sanitary-workers/articleshow/75211625.cms||---
April 18, 2020||Hyderabad||Now on her way home, UK nurse eager to resume duty||HYDERABAD: Driving into a star hotel for a mandatory pre-travel health check-up on Friday, Shukri Mohamoud, was ecstatic. Not only because she was finally going home after three months, but also because she knows that her hospital in London can do with an extra pair of hands, in such times of crisis. The paediatric nurse arrived in India on January 14, to undergo an in vitro fertilisation (IVF) treatment. After a month-and-half in New Delhi, she came to Hyderabad on March 1. “Though my hospital has given me leave to complete my treatment, I want to join duty as soon as possible. It is my responsibility and I know they need people right now,” the 40-year-old said, while waiting to board her flight at Rajiv Gandhi International Airport. The excitement in her voice was palpable — a marked shift from the sense of helpless that she expressed the last time TOI spoke with her, earlier this month. Shukri was among the group of UK citizens from Hyderabad who were ferried back to London via Ahmedabad on Friday. “Yes, I cannot wait to see my family — my husband, sister and her children — but I also cannot wait to help my people. Of course, I have to first put myself through the mandatory self-quarantine period so that I do not pose any threat to those around me,” she said, while assuring to return to India once the fear of coronavirus recedes. “I did slip into depression when the lockdown was first announced as I did not know how to get back, but I bounced back soon afterwards. I am certainly coming back to complete my treatment. Also, I have paid the entire fee to the clinic here,” Shukri said, before signing off with a selfie.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/now-on-her-way-home-uk-nurse-eager-to-resume-duty/articleshow/75211610.cms||Sudipta Sengupta
April 18, 2020||Hyderabad||Telangana: Schools set admission targets for teachers, link it to their salaries||HYDERABAD: There is no respite for teachers of private schools from getting admissions. They have been set targets for the month of April and the only change is that instead of going on a door-to-door campaign, because of the lockdown, they are now forced to make calls to get new admissions. “We are asked to get five new admissions so as to get April month salary,” said B Shiva, a teacher working in a corporate school. He said that schools directed them to talk to parents of their current students and get contacts of prospective students. Teachers said that the entire admission process is being completed online. “Parents are asked to pay the application fee and token amount to confirm seat to their wards through online payments. A receipt is sent to them through email or WhatsApp,” said Shabir Ali, president, Telangana Private Teachers Forum. Ali said that majority of the schools have already announced that they are not going to pay teachers for the months of April and May, but most of them are doing admissions to get incentives. “Most schools paid only 15 days salary to teachers for the month of March. While most of us will not get any pay for the next two months, few corporate schools are paying Rs 500 for each admission,” he added. The members of the Telangana Recognized School Managements Association (TRSMA) also took a dig at corporate schools for announcing about admissions through various mediums. “At a time when the entire country is in lockdown to stop the spread of coronavirus, corporate schools are busy with their admissions. The state should immediately initiate action against these schools,” said S Madhusudhan, general secretary, TRSMA. A senior official from the department of school education said that the state had made it clear that schools have to pay their teachers during the lockdown. “If teachers come forward and file a complaint against the school management, we will conduct a detailed enquiry and initiate action,” the official added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/schools-set-admission-targets-for-teachers-link-it-to-their-salaries/articleshow/75211628.cms||Nirupa Vatyam
April 18, 2020||Meerut||Poor protest lack of food atop water tank||Meerut: A long queue in front of a ration dealer’s shop on Thursday shifted to a nearby overhead water tank atop which the anxious and angry villagers, mostly women, threatened mass suicide. They alleged that the ration dealer was not giving BPL card holders their quota of food, prompting senior government officials to rush to Baghpat’s Kakor village and promise an inquiry.A woman shouted, “The dealer takes away our share and sells it later at market rate.” The protesters came down only after a lot of persuasion, Baghpat SDM Durgesh Mishra said.Ironically, on Friday, all 31 protesters – most of them very poor -- were booked by police under provisions of Disaster Management Act.Amid the extended lockdown and broken supply chain, the poor in most parts of UP are finding it difficult to arrange food. Scores of cases that point to failure in delivering ration to the needy are surfacing daily. It is forcing some to resort to desperate measures.About 60-km from Baghpat, in Shamli’s Kandhla town, a starving woman fell prey to another ration dealer. The 23-year-old woman, who ran out of cash, was standing in line for ration when the dealer told her that he would visit her house to hand over the ration, knowing that her husband was stranded in lockdown in Punjab. Later he raped her. Police have lodged an FIR against him.Not far from Kandhla, policemen in UP’s Saharanpur district found a 70-year-old woman starving in her house. Meena lived alone in Saharanpur’s Badgaon village after her husband’s death four years ago. She was somehow managing a meal a day until the lockdown was clamped. Policemen rushed her to a nearby hospital where she died early this week.“She was in very bad shape when we spotted her. We gave food, and later admitted her to a local hospital. She was then referred to a higher centre in Saharanpur where she died,” SSI Deepak Chaudhary said. In the absence of family members, policemen took out her funeral procession.UP chief minister Yogi Adityanath has assured food to the needy. “It doesn’t matter if a person has ration card or not, Aadhaar card or not, if the person is needy, she/he would be provided with essential food items; if the person is a migrant, she/he shall be provided with food and ration,” he wrote on Twitter.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/meerut/poor-protest-lack-of-food-atop-water-tank/articleshow/75210408.cms||Sandeep Rai
April 18, 2020||Bengaluru||Bengaluru: Social distancing no mean feat for BBMP in crammed localities||BENGALURU: A spurt of Covid-19 cases in a few densely-populated pockets of Bengaluru is presenting BBMP with a logistical nightmare, unlike earlier when the infection was reported from localities like Jayanagar, Whitefield, CV Raman Nagar and Basavanagudi where social distancing could be easily enforced to check the spread of the virus. Padarayanapura in west Bengaluru and Tipunagar in south Bengaluru which have seen a surge in cases over the past few days are home to byzantine networks of lanes and bylanes and cheek-by-jowl tenements. The Palike is not only finding it difficult to ensure social distancing in these localities but also to trace primary and secondary contacts of the infected. Two women, a girl and a boy have tested positive in Tipunagar till Friday. Theyw were all primary contacts of a 65-year-old man who had tested positive and died on Monday. According to a senior BBMP health official, there have been nine positive cases in Padarayanapura till Friday. Two Tablighi Jamaat followers had attended a congregation in Delhi in March and returned to Padarayanapura. The duo was sent to a public quarantine facility in the wake of the alert sounded over the Tabligh congregation emerging into a cluster. By the time the two were found to be infected, they had interacted with several people. Eleven of their primary contacts tested positive later. “These eleven people have interacted with several others and it has become a big challenge for us to trace them,” the official said. Health authorities say lack of cooperation and understanding from residents is contributing to spread of the virus in the areas. Irrespective of the lockdown, people hit the streets in groups to shop for their daily needs, throwing social distancing protocol to the wind. When the Tipunagar Covid-19 patient died on Monday, close to 100 people turned up to pay their respects. The patient himself is suspected to have interacted with a huge number of people before being hospitalised. Seventy of his primary and secondary contacts are already under BBMP watch. “We now have another 100 people becoming primary contacts by paying their last respects to the Tipunagar patient,” the health official said. Lokesh M, special commissioner, surveillance, said, “These are localities where there’s barely one feet distance between the houses. Each house has more than half a dozen residents. With people just not adhering to social distancing norms, chances of the virus spreading are only more here.” Trees as barricadesLokesh said in localities like Jayanagar, Vijayanagar and Basavanagudi, where positive cases were reported initially, no one has been found infected as social distancing is being strictly maintained. In areas like Sarakki, Basavanagudi, Malleswaram and Attiguppe, people have blocked roads with tree branches, plastic drums, vegetable crates, and huge boulders on their own to make lockdown effective, he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/social-distancing-no-mean-feat-for-bbmp-in-crammed-localities/articleshow/75209869.cms||Nithya Mandyam
April 18, 2020||Hyderabad||Former SCB member hosts party amid lockdown, apologises later||SECUNDERABAD: Amid lockdown restrictions, Shyam Kumar, a former member of the Secunderabad Cantonment Board (SCB) celebrated his birthday party along with a dozen people outside his office. The party was allegedly attended by a local sanitation official and was close to the Trimulgherry police station. Photos of the party on social media drew criticism from many. “In spite of Birthday party (being) hosted opp to Trimulgherry PS no action (was) taken by police,” one user tweeted. Tagging the SCB, he said the violation occurred in presence of health inspector BM Tripathi. However, when contacted, Shyam Kumar said: “I made a mistake and this party should not have been hosted in the current situation.” Speaking to TOI, SCB sanitation inspector BM Tripathi said: “Sometimes people give sweets to thank us. Maybe an impromptu celebration was held. How can we prevent this?” Trimulgherry SHO Ravi Kumar said he did not know such a party was held. “We have not received any complaint.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/former-scb-member-hosts-party-amid-lockdown-apologises-later/articleshow/75211652.cms||---
April 18, 2020||Hyderabad||54 and counting: Suryapet slips into red zone||HYDERABAD: With as many as 54 Covid-19 cases reported in Suryapet district so far, the entire Suryapet town was declared a red zone on Friday. The decision was taken following a spurt in the number of cases. Energy minister Jagdeesh Reddy held a meeting on containing the spread of the virus in the district. Rajya Sabha member B Lingaiah, district collector Vinay Krishna Reddy and health officials discussed what needed to be done to contain the virus. After the meeting held in the municipal corporation office, Jagdeesh Reddy said all essentials and provisions would be supplied to people in the entire town as lockdown would be strictly implemented in the town as it has been declared a red zone. With the number of cases having gone up in the district, he urged people to voluntarily come forward and get tests done if they have any symptoms of the virus. While urging the people to follow social distancing, he said since tests had been taken up, as reports were coming now, the figures of positive cases were increasing. Officials have been sounded on taking precautions at market yards where paddy procurement is taking place. Police pickets have been posted in all areas in Suryapet town, especially where cases have been reported. Barricades have been put up to prevent people from moving out of the areas.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/54-and-counting-suryapet-slips-into-red-zone/articleshow/75211583.cms||Ch Sushil Rao
April 18, 2020||Thiruvananthapuram||Assets case: FIR against Jacob Thomas||Thiruvananthapuram: With just a month left for retirement, the crime branch has registered a case against DGP Jacob Thomas for acquiring 50.33 acres disproportionate to his known sources of income at Rajapalayam taluk in Virudhunagar district in Tamil Nadu. The case, registered under Section 13 (1) (e) of Prevention of Corruption Act, will be transferred to vigilance and anti-corruption bureau for detailed inquiry. The case was registered by the crime branch after the government accorded sanction to the crime branch to register the case. The crime branch, in its preliminary inquiry report submitted to the government, had reported that Thomas acquired assets, which he had admitted in his autobiography “sravukalkkoppam neenthumbol”, which attracts the provisions of the Prohibition of Benami Property Transactions Act. The government also considered the proceedings of the income tax department, Chennai, that deals with benami property transactions regarding the property in the name of Thomas in Tamil Nadu. A judicial first class magistrate, Ernakulam, had earlier made sharp remarks against Thomas as guilty of holding benami property under Benami Transactions (Prohibition) Act, 1988. In its order on February 17, 2018, while considering a petition by T R Vasudevan, an Ernakulam native, contending that the officer who holds undisclosed land in Sethur village in Rajapala yam taluk of Virudhunagar district in Tamil Nadu committed offence under the act, observed that Jacob Thomas is a benamidar as defined under the section 2(10) of the act, and the land transaction is a benami transaction as per the act. TOI, in a series of expose in March 2017, had brought out how the officer held 50 acres in his name in Tamil Nadu using another address posing as a director of a private firm, that was also not disclosed in the mandatory immovable property returns statement to be made every year before the ministry of home affairs. The court also had made sharp remarks against the officer, citing that the officer who is not legally permitted to become the director of a private limited company used a fictitious address to purchase the land. Jacob Thomas, who had been on suspension for more than a year, is currently the managing director of Metal Industries Limited, Shoranur, a PSU under the industries department, on the basis of a favourable order from Central Administrative Tribunal. The officer is set to retire from the service on May 31.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/thiruvananthapuram/assets-case-fir-against-jacob-thomas/articleshow/75208678.cms||---
April 18, 2020||Meerut||Now, Amangarh is a haven for elephants||Bijnor: The oneset of summer this year is witness to the presence of several elephant herds in Amangarh Tiger Reserve (ATR).Every winter, elephant herds come down to Amangarh, a buffer zone of Corbett National Park in neighbouring Uttarakhand, to forage for sugarcane cultivated on the fringes of the forest. They return with the onset of summer due to scarcity of water. But this is not so this time.The unusually large number of elephants is being attributed to plentiful water following the construction of five pucca waterholes here. Not just elephants, the water holes are prooving to be a boon for all types of wild animals. Amangarh is home to 21 tigers, leopards and scores of herbivores, including elephants.According to forest department officials, there are 13 water holes in ATR. Out of these, 11 are brimming with water. There are three boring wells and a tanker having a 4,000-litre capacity through which water supply is maintained.Another attraction are Rohini trees-- its leaves are a favourite of these pachyderms.Besides, no movement of human beings in the forested area owing to the coronavirus lockdown is also contributing to wild animals' free movement in the forest. "Entry of outsiders has been prohibited. This has created a healthy and peaceful atmosphere for wild animals," saidBijnor divisional forest officer M Semmaran. He added, "This time around, no fire incident has so far been reported from forest areas. Earlier, villagers of neighbouring areas entered the forest and caused fires due to carelessness. But not anymore due to the ongoing lockdown over coronavirus."||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/meerut/now-amangarh-is-a-haven-for-elephants/articleshow/75210464.cms||Harveer Dabas
April 18, 2020||Coimbatore||Coimbatore: Children of guest workers get free milk||COIMBATORE: Members of the Swadeshi Sarvodaya Sangh along with khadi and village industries commission distributed 40 litres of milk to the children of guest workers on Friday. Children of 159 families benefited by the drive, district secretary of the sangh Sakthi Vadivel said. “We have been distributing food to the families of migrant workers staying in Sulur Pirivu, Muthukavundanpudur, Chinniyampalayam and Neelambur for the last 19 days and decided to give milk for their kids,” he said. Milk is sourced from the members of the sangh in Palladam, who are livestock farmers, the official said. “They had been making butter and ghee using milk collected in the evening. They decided not to make the byproducts and give the milk to the children.” “Children aged below five years were given 250ml milk. We have decided to increase the quantity to 70 litres from Saturday,” Vadivel added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/children-of-guest-workers-get-free-milk/articleshow/75211638.cms||---
April 18, 2020||Dehradun||Around 50,000 workers go jobless as forest mining activities remain suspended in Uttarakhand||DEHRADUN: An estimated 50,000 daily wage workers from Uttarakhand and other neighbouring states have gone out of work as mining activities in forests of Uttarakhand are suspended due to the ongoing Covid-19 lockdown. This labour-intensive sector employs thousands of people for eight months (from October to May) when mining activities are undertaken in a sustainable way in state’s forest area by Uttarakhand Forest Development Corporation (UKFDC). During the process, minerals are handpicked and no machines are allowed to enter forests. According to UKFDC officials, the sector employs almost one lakh daily wagers in mineral extraction from ten different rivers – Gola, Nandhaur, Sharda Dabka, Kosi, Maalang, Ganga, Kotwali, Saung and Jakhan — across the state during the eight-month period. The officials added that half of the total workers had already left for their hometowns for the harvest season but the ones who stayed back are the worst hit due to suspension of mining activities. An IFS officer of state forest department, who is acquainted with mining activities, told TOI, “The maximum number of workers (around 30,000) is deployed at Gola river, followed by Nandhaur river (with 10,000 workers), and at Dabka, Kosi, and Sharda river stretches (each with 5,000 workers). In Garhwal region, at least 25,000 people are employed in mining activities. Now, almost half of this workforce has gone back to their native villages for crop harvesting. But the remaining 50,000 workers have become unemployed after mining activities were suspended.” TOI sources revealed that in areas close to Gola river, around 10,000 jobless workers are presently stuck. However, forest officials have claimed that they are trying to support these people. “We are distributing ration and other essentials in these areas with the help of local administration. Around 10,000 workers are present in areas near Gola river stretch currently,” said Nitish Mani Tripathi, divisional forest officer of Terai East (Western Circle), Uttarakhand Forest Department. The sudden lockdown has also hit the total revenue of UKFDC, according to a TOI source in the corporation. UKFDC has fetched revenue of around Rs 231 crore against its total target of Rs 379 crore for the financial year (FY) of 2019-20. The corporation has also paid some of the amount of royalty and stamp duty for the last fiscal. Notably, the corporation’s target for royalty and stamp duty was Rs 148 crore for FY 2019-20. Monish Mullick, managing director of UKFDC, states that the corporation is trying to offer some help to the daily wagers by donating money into state treasury. “UKFDC understands that a lot of people get employment through mining activities in state forests. Therefore, we have donated an amount of Rs 25 lakh to the CM’s relief fund. An additional amount of Rs 5 lakh was donated by all our IFS officers and staff by giving up their one-day salary,” Mullick told TOI.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/covid-19-lockdown-around-50k-workers-go-jobless-as-forest-mining-activities-remain-suspended/articleshow/75210486.cms||Shivani Azad
April 18, 2020||Dehradun||Tirth purohits oppose ‘online pooja’ proposal||DEHRADUN: The tirth purohits (priests) have strongly opposed to the proposal of online pooja (worship) by state government claiming that it goes against traditions. Suresh Semwal, president of Gangotri Mandir Samiti, was of the view that rather than doing things which are not in accordance with traditions, the state government must focus on development works and providing better facilities on the Char Dham route. Many other priests also expressed their resentment against the proposal of online pooja. When contacted to comment on the matter, state tourism minister Satpal Maharaj said that the traditions will be preserved and no such thing would be done which hurts sentiment of an individual or a group. Meanwhile, the tourism minister informed that the chief priests of both Kedarnath and Badrinath shrines have left for Uttarakhand and are scheduled to arrive in the next three days.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/tirth-purohits-oppose-online-pooja-proposal/articleshow/75210458.cms||---
April 18, 2020||Nagpur||Amid curfew, NMC asks teachers to home deliver MDM foodgrains||Nagpur: The Nagpur Municipal Corporation (NMC) has asked all schools who provide midday meals (MDM) to distribute leftover foodgrains to eligible students. Schools however are wary of the ‘home delivery’ condition put in the letter sent by NMC’s education officer Preeti Mishrikotkar. Schools say the directives are not only ‘dangerous’ but such an action can wait until the lockdown ends. Ashnarayan Tiwari, executive member of School Headmasters Charitable Association (SHCA), said, “The government’s intention, which is being implemented by NMC, is very noble and we appreciate and support it. But there are genuine logistical challenges to overcome before even embarking on the cause.” He added that many teachers stayed far from the school and commuting during a lockdown was a problem. “Then comes the problem of going out to congested areas distributing food to students,” said Tiwari. He added there was no clarity regarding schools in containment zone. “That area is sealed, so will teachers enter? Will they be allowed to? Also what about students who are residing in containment area, how will foodgrains be distributed there,” asked Tiwari. Ravindra Fadnavis, a school trustee and influential member of a state level managements’ association, said this could wait till lockdown was over. “There is not enough leftover in school anyway. Half of March’s stock was used, so only half is remaining. At the most one child will get 1kg rice and that too we will come to know after taking stock,” said Fadnavis. He added that it would be monumental task to go ahead with the plan. “I have a thousand students and to prepare so many packages with a handful of staff and distribute them to every single home was tough. I hope the education department reconsiders this decision. We can do it after lockdown is lifted,” said Fadnavis.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/amid-curfew-nmc-asks-teachers-to-home-deliver-mdm-foodgrains/articleshow/75210471.cms||Abhishek Choudhari
April 18, 2020||Goa||Coop societies to restart ops from Monday||Panaji: The Goa government in keeping with the Union home ministry’s guidelines, has allowed non-banking financial companies (NBFCs) and microfinance institutions, including cooperative credit societies, to restart operaions in Goa from April 20. Cooperative credit societies can operate with bare minimum staff amid the extended lockdown as a precaution against the spread of the novel coronavirus. “Staff working for the society shall compulsorily carry identity cards issued by the general manager or branch manager, which shall be accepted by the police to permit them to commute from home to work,” said registrar of cooperative societies Vikas Gaunekar. He said that all cooperative credit societies will have to adhere to the guidelines issued by MHA and any violation will result in immediate withdrawal of permission to operate. The order will apply to urban cooperative societies, multi-state cooperative credit societies and VKSS societies.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/coop-societies-to-restart-ops-from-monday/articleshow/75212620.cms||---
April 18, 2020||Dehradun||Officials visit curfew-hit Banbhoolpura, children welcome them with flowers||NAINITAL: Days after a rumour prompted hundreds of residents to come out on streets of Banbhoolpura area in Haldwani resulting in the imposition of curfew, the officials of the district administration and health department who visited the locality on Friday were welcomed with flowers by children. Nainital district magistrate (DM) Savin Bansal as well as senior superintendent of police (SSP) Sunil Kumar Meena along with teams of health department visited the area on Friday to talk to residents. As soon as they entered Line Number 8 – the location where a crowd had gathered on Sunday – people standing in the balconies and terraces started clapping and showered flowers on the officials. In Line Number 16, a five-year-old boy named Haider came out of his house and gifted the officials a rose. The district administration has said that it is important that people of the area cooperate with police and health teams. The officials added that the administration has made arrangements for daily essentials at the government Public Distribution Systems (PDS) shops while the health department has been odered to make sure that people get the medicines they need even if they are to be brought from outside. “We have not faced any untoward incident in the area since Sunday. It is necessary that people cooperate with the administration so that the pandemic can be defeated. We have talked to the locals as well as our officials posted here and all the arrangements are being made so that residents do not have to suffer," Bansal said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/officials-visit-curfew-hit-banbhoolpura-children-welcome-them-with-flowers/articleshow/75210450.cms||Prashant Jha
April 18, 2020||Coimbatore||Infection scare, lockdown drive people to despair||COIMBATORE: The novel coronavirus scare and lockdown seem to have pushed many people to the brink of nervous breakdown. And they are increasingly turning to mental health professionals, who are available for tele-counselling sessions, to overcome the anxiety and depression.The tele-counsellors said more than half of the calls were from people who did not have any depression or anxiety issues until recently. According to them, more than 65% of callers was suffering from anxiety issues, while the remaining were cases of depression that was caused by loneliness or those struggling with alcohol withdrawal symptoms. Dr NS Mony, a psychiatrist with Balaji Neuro Psychiatrist Centre, said, “As the number of Covid-19 positive cases and the resultant deaths are on the rise across the world, people are scared of getting infected. Their anxiety is nothing but reflection of their fear.” He said people were in general aware of how the virus would transmit and ways to prevent infection. “Despite that, a throat dryness or mild sore throat worries them a lot and that leads to anxiety.” The psychiatrist said some of the callers have had questions like whether they would get infected just because they had spoken to someone from the containment zone over phone or because they have been getting Covid-19-related dreams quite often. Dr D Srinivasan, a psychiatrist with Kovai Medical Centre and Hospital, attributed the increase in anxiety among people to their relentless tracking of Covid-19 related information. “Avalanche of information is also a reason for the anxiety, which is the outcome of uncertainty. The situation that we face now is unprecedented and people are not certain when this will end or how the post-pandemic situation will be. Anxiety is a natural response to such a situation.” According to Dr Pavithra Mony, consultant psychiatrist with Royal Care Hospital, most of the callers start their conversation saying they were having sleepless nights. “It is only when we probe further, they would reveal they are worried about certain things, which are their talking points.” She said with the talks of job cuts doing the rounds, people were a worried lot. “They would constantly think about things like what would happen if they lose their job and their financial situation and spend their nights without sleeping. It in turn results in anxiety.” N Suresh Kumar, secretary, Tamil Nadu Association of Clinic Psychologists, said, while they were able to allay the fears of some callers in a single sitting, there were a few who required constant follow-up. “People who were having anxiety issues earlier are the most affected.” With a number of professionals, Tamil Nadu chapter of Indian Psychiatric Society and Tamil Nadu Association of Clinical Psychologists are providing free telephonic counselling to people to help them overcome their anxiety issues and depression.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/infection-scare-lockdown-drive-people-to-despair/articleshow/75211650.cms||Nivedha Selvam
April 18, 2020||Dehradun||Local innovators and manufacturers lead the battle against Covid-19||DEHRADUN: The state-owned Bharat Heavy Electrical Limited (BHEL) at Haridwar has successfully built and tested two devices that are expected to play an important role in India’s fight against the novel coronavirus outbreak. The two products — an electrostatic disinfectant for indoor use and mass disinfectant spray machine for outdoors — have sensors that activate sanitizer sprays to disinfect and kill germs. Rakesh Maniktala, DGM (corporate communication) at BHEL, said, “Our devices were built in association with Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) and were tested in Haridwar. Experts have monitored quality and efficiency checks before starting mass production for government hospitals and other establishments.” “The electrostatic disinfectant can be kept in offices. It sprays a mist of disinfectant in measured quantity sufficient for a room. Its sensors automatically switch off after a preset time. In contrast, the spray machine works outdoors. It has a chamber and mist makers mounted on a truck, which sprays a disinfectant mist in the air as the truck is driven along a road,” said Maniktala. He added, “Since the outbreak, our team was given the task of making innovative products to deal with it. We conducted trials of the devices in Haridwar.” Another instrument which has already proved its utility with health workers is a thermal imaging device designed by Sanjeev Sehgal, an electronics engineer who owns a factory in Haridwar. Said Sehgal, “It took a week for my team to finalise the design and assemble the unit. Using thermal image, the machine measures body temperature and beeps to alert if anyone with suspiciously high fever is passing by. The first unit has been installed in Dehradun’s health department office.” The results are much better than handheld IR temperature reading devices, claimed Sehgal. Elsewhere, Rajat Jain, owner of a medical equipment start-up in Dehradun, has developed a full-face protection shield for frontline Covid-19 warriors. “It took us a week to design the full-face shield mask and get it testified by the state government. Now, two district hospitals are using it. Our core work is making medical equipment but our team also made the shield for corona fighters.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/local-innovators-and-manufacturers-lead-the-battle-against-covid-19/articleshow/75210502.cms||Yogesh Kumar
April 18, 2020||Meerut||UP: Constable dies in road accident in Muzaffarnagar||MUZAFFARNAGAR: A police constable died in Muzaffarnagar after a speeding heavy vehicle rammed into the car he was driving and then hit a tree. The incident took place in Charthawal area on Friday. The 50-year-old constable identified as Sanjeev Kumar was posted at Saharanpur’s Rampur Maniharan police station for past three months. He belonged to Sardhana in Meerut. Police sources said, the constable was travelling from Thanbhawan to Muzaffarnagar. Area police rushed to the spot and took him to a district hospital where he was declared dead. SHO of Charthawal police station Sube Singh said, "A case against unidentified vehicle was registered and investigation is ongoing." The constable's body has been sent for postmortem.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/meerut/constable-diesin-road-accident/articleshow/75210494.cms||Mohd Dilshad
April 18, 2020||Delhi||Delhi: Food inspector’s father dies, fear of infection rises||NEW DELHI: The report of a food supply inspector’s (FSI) father testing positive for Covid-19 on Thursday has stoked fear among those who had come in contact with the official over the past few days. These include officials of the food and civil supplies department, ration dealers and staff of schools where Delhi government has been distributing free foodgrains. The patient died on Friday. District health officials were asked to draw up a list of all those who were in close contact with him and collect their samples. Clinical samples were collected from seven family members and two neighbours. The district administration also sealed a lane of C-Block in Hari Nagar, where the FSI lives, comprising about 50 houses and declared it a containment zone. Since no other person has shown symptoms so far, the administration has asked them to stay in home quarantine. The test reports are expected on Saturday and further course of action will be decided after that. Sources said the FSI, who was posted in Dwarka, was frequently on the move and had been in touch with several people. There were 41 fair price shops under his jurisdiction, apart from several schools where the government was distributing free ration. Fearing that they might have caught the infection, sources said several food and civil supplies inspectors have written to the department about them and their staff coming in contact with the FSI while discharging their official duties. They have sought guidance on what action needs to be taken. Some inspectors even submitted the list of schools and fair price shops they had visited along with the FSI. The department has asked all the first contacts to follow the protocol — go into quarantine, get their samples tested and inform the office of the result. The officials have also been asked to “mandatorily” revise their status on Aarogya Setu app. The FSI has been asked to draw up the list of schools he had visited so that the education department could be informed. An official of assistant commissioner rank had also accompanied the FSI to several shops and schools. He had later attended a meeting called by food and civil supplies minister Imran Hussain at Delhi secretariat, along with other senior officials. Sources said all those who attended the meeting have been advised to go into quarantine. Hussain and food and civil supplies commissioner Anita Mishra Bundela didn’t respond to telephone calls and messages from TOI for comments. Officials said the FSI’s father had age-related issues and other health complications for quite some time. He had visited a few hospitals for treatment in the past few days. “There is a possibility that he might have got the infection from one of the hospitals,” said a senior district administration official. Ration dealers have demanded that the government must assure Rs 50 lakh compensation and a job to a family member if any one of them dies of Covid-19 while performing their duty.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/food-inspectors-father-dies-fear-of-infection-rises/articleshow/75212625.cms||Atul Mathur
April 18, 2020||Dehradun||Uttarakhand police to donate Rs 3 crore to CM relief fund||DEHRADUN: Uttarakhand Police has decided to donate Rs 3 crore to the Chief Minister Relief Fund to fight the menace of coronavirus in the hill state. Director General (DG) law and order Ashok Kumar on Friday announced that state police department is going to make a voluntary contribution of Rs 3 crore. According to Kumar, gazetted officers in the police department are going to forego three days of salary while non-gazetted personnel will donate a day’s salary.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/uttarakhand-police-to-donate-rs-3-crore-to-cm-relief-fund/articleshow/75210505.cms||---
April 18, 2020||Pune||21-year-old man held on charge of murder in Pune||PUNE: A 21-year-old brick kiln worker was arrested on Friday on the charges of strangulating a woman to death and dumping her body in a water tank in Lohegaon on Thursday. An officer from the Airport police said the suspect and the victim, both from Jharkhand, were in a live-in relationship after they migrated to Pune from Bengaluru in February. The worker suspected the woman was having an affair with another man, the officer said. The incident came to light after a worker found the woman’s (21) body floating in the tank. Deputy commissioner of police (zone IV) Pankaj Deshmukh said, “We have recovered the victim’s body from the tank. Her hands were tied. A heavy stone was also tied to her body. During questioning, the suspect said he banged the woman’s head on the floor and strangled her with a dupatta because he suspected she was having an affair with another man. He then dumped her body in the tank.” The police registered an offence of murder under Section 302 of the Indian Penal Code.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/21-year-old-man-held-on-charge-of-murder/articleshow/75212632.cms||---
April 18, 2020||Coimbatore||Big drop in positive cases, patients on recovery path||COIMBATORE: The Covid-19 patients seem to be recovering fast in the district, which has seen a considerable drop in positive cases in the past couple of days. While the first batch of 12 patients was discharged from the ESI Hospital on Thursday night, another 20 are likely to come out of the hospital on April 21. Health officials are also hopeful of getting all the Tablighi Jamaat (TJ) conference attendees, who have tested positive, discharged from the hospital by end of next week. The 12, who are from Mettupalayam and Anamalai areas, were hospitalized on March 28 and 29 after they tested positive for the virus. They were discharged only after two tests proved them negative for the virus. They have been, however, advised to remain in home quarantine for another two weeks. Meanwhile, health department officials are keeping their fingers crossed as they are awaiting the test results of the remaining 271 people of the 2,500, whose samples were collected over the past couple of days. They are, however, relieved at the fact that only one, a five-year-old boy from Kinathukadavu, was tested positive among the lot so far. Earlier, the 12 were given a warm send off from the ESI Hospital on Thursday night by dean Dr Nirmala and a few doctors and nurses, who treated them. The patients, who were initially resistant to isolation and treatment, were also relieved to be discharged after almost 20 days of hospitalization. Dr G Ramesh Kumar, deputy director public health, said, “They were happy to go home. We have instructed them to remain in home quarantine for another two weeks and call us immediately if they or their family members were to develop slightest symptoms like a sore throat, cold or cough.” According to the official, while all the remaining Tablighi Jamaat conference attendees, who have tested positive, are likely to be discharged from the hospital by the next weekend, their relatives and family members, who have tested positive, are likely to get discharged only in April-end. Kumar said they were almost 99% confident that new clusters were not emerging in the district. “Only one of the 2,500 samples has tested positive. There is, however, a possibility of that patient’s family members testing positive for the virus. The lockdown is definitely helping flatten the curve in the district,” he said. He said the public health department has begun intensifying efforts to track the source of the five-year-old patient's infection. “We suspect that the marriage hall, where some of TJ meet attendees were quarantined, may have been close to the boy's residence.” The city corporation officials were also on a mass screening drive in some of the containment zones such as Syrian Church Road, KK Pudur, Vysial Street and Ukkadam. While they have tested 75-80 people each on Syrian Church Road, Vysial Street and at Ukkadam, they have screened around 25-30 people on KK Pudur Road. A city corporation official said, “We have tested all the Covid-19 patients’ neighbours, people who visited any of their family members and others with symptoms.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/big-drop-in-positive-cases-patients-on-recovery-path/articleshow/75211659.cms||---
April 18, 2020||Faridabad||Faridabad: BSF officer among three discharged||FARIDABAD: Three more Covid-19 patients were discharged after recovery from Faridabad’s ESIC hospital on Friday. While the total number of positive cases has increased to 33 in the district, 16 patients have recovered so far. A couple— a 52-year-old man and his 50-year-old wife — who were admitted to ESIC Hospital and Medical College were discharged on Friday. The husband, a BSF commandant posted in Gwalior, had contracted infection from an officer there. His wife contracted the infection from him. The couple lives in the society, which is in a containment zone. Besides them, one more patient has been discharged from the hospital. “We have 16 patients who have recovered. There are some patients whose preliminary tests have turned out to be negative. We hope that they are on the path to recovery,” said Dr Ram Bhagat, deputy civil surgeon, Faridabad. A 32-year-old woman, meanwhile, died under mysterious circumstances and was suffering from flu-like symptoms. The health department has quarantined her husband and sent samples of her husband and 30 other contacts for Covid-19 tests. The woman was cremated following the Covid-19 guidelines and protocols. “We have taken the sample of her husband and other contacts. Their reports are still awaited. She was suffering from flu-like symptoms, but it doesn’t mean that she was a Covid-19 patient. We have sent their samples as a precautionary measure,” said Dr Bhagat. On Friday, no new case was reported in Faridabad. A health department official said none of the samples tested positive in the past two days. The health department has sent 1,179 samples so far, out of which 899 turned out to be negative. The reports of 247 samples are awaited. Around 1,298 people with travel history are under surveillance.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/faridabad/bsf-officer-among-three-discharged/articleshow/75212630.cms||Vishakha Chaman
April 18, 2020||Mangaluru||Karnataka: Dakshina Kannada district reported its 13th Covid-19 case||MANGALURU: Dakshina Kannada district reported its 13th Covid-19 case after a 39-year-old man from Uppinangady, who had travelled to Delhi, tested positive on Friday. Out of the 90 reports that arrived in the day, his showed positive. The person was under quarantine at a government facility in the city from April 1 after his return from Delhi. His throat swab collected on April 2 had tested negative. However, he tested positive for the disease in the second test conducted on the throat swab sent on April 13. Currently, he is the only Covid-19 patient with the disease undergoing treatment in Dakshina Kannada district. Twelve people have already been discharged. Three people undergoing treatment at District Wenlock Hospital were discharged on Friday after their samples tested negative. They include a 63-year-old woman, who had arrived from Dubai on March 21, a 43-year-old man and another 52-year-old man, both of whom returned from Nizamuddin on March 22.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mangaluru/dk-reports-13th-covid-case/articleshow/75206926.cms||---
April 18, 2020||Dehradun||Schools’ body donates Rs 62 lakh to CM Relief Fund||DEHRADUN: The state unit of the Principal Progressive Schools’ Association (PPSA) donated a cheque of Rs 62,01,000 to the CM’s Relief Fund on Friday. Contribution to the cheque amount was made by several private schools in Uttarakhand which are part of PPSA. The delegation which donated the cheque at chief minister’s office in Dehradun was headed by Prem Kashyap state president of PPSA. He also shared the issues pertaining to private schools with CM Trivendra Singh Rawat. Reportedly, the issue regarding the regulation that private schools can’t ask for fees during the lockdown period was discussed extensively.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/schools-body-donates-62l-to-cm-relief-fund/articleshow/75210518.cms||Mohammad Anab
April 18, 2020||Aurangabad||Pvt hospital where Covid patient was treated sealed||Aurangabad: The Aurangabad Municipal Corporation (AMC) on Friday sealed a private hospital for two weeks after it came to fore that a positive Covid-19 patient was treated there."The Central Naka-based hospital has been shut down under the Disaster Management Act, 2005. The measure has been taken to contain the spread of Covid-19. As many as 48 close contacts of the positive patient are also being screened," civic health officer Nita Padalkar said.A 65-year-old woman — a resident of Bismillah Colony — tested positive for Covid-19 on Thursday. She was first admitted to this private hospital and later was referred to the Government Medical College and Hospital (GMCH). The woman has been admitted to the Covid-19 ward at the GMCH. As per the Indian Council of Medical Research guidelines, she has also been tested for Severe Acute Respiratory Syndrome. According to a doctor at GMCH, the woman is diabetic and has hypertension with kidney ailment. "Her condition is critical," the doctor said."Soon after the woman tested positive for Covid-19, the civic machinery began the process of identifying her close contacts. According to her family members, the woman does not have any travel history," Padalkar said. This pushed the AMC into intensifying their investigation as they were not able to find any instance where the woman came in contact with another Covid-19 positive patient. "The sealing of hospital is part of the cluster containment plan. The locality where the woman resides has also been sealed and door-to-door screening by health workers is underway," she added.Meanwhile, Padalkar said that a 17-year-old boy and his step-mother, who have been tested positive for Covid-19, had come to Aurangabad from Mumbai in an ambualnce."The teen’s father is not cooperating with us in giving details about how were they allowed to travel to Aurangabad during lockdown. We will have to file an FIR against him for not providing details," Padalkar said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/pvt-hospital-where-covid-patient-was-treated-sealed/articleshow/75210528.cms||Arpita Sharad
April 18, 2020||Mysuru||12 fresh Covid-19 cases take tally to 60 in Mysuru||MYSURU: The district continues to be on tenterhooks as 12 more persons tested positive for Covid-19 on Friday. While 11 of them are related to the pharmaceutical firm in Nanjangud, the 12th person, a woman, is related to the septuagenarian who was diagnosed with Covid-19 while being treated for respiratory infection. With this, the total number of active Covid-19 patients in the district touched 60 on Friday. Meanwhile, one more employee of the pharmaceutical company has been cured and discharged. With this, a total of 13 persons—11 of the pharmaceutical firm and two Dubai-returnees—have recovered from virus infection in the district, said an official. So far, 73 positive cases are reported in Mysuru, out of which 60 are related to Nanjangud firm, the biggest cluster case in Karnataka. Eight others are related to Tablighi Jamaat visitors, two are Dubai-returnees, one a contact of Dubai-returnees and two are Severe Acute Respiratory Infection (SARI)-related. 2nd SARI case in districtThe woman who tested positive on Friday is a relative of the septuagenarian with Severe Acute Respiratory Infection (SARI) who developed symptoms of Covid-19. She has been shifted to covid hospital. Samples from three other family members have been collected. This is the first SARI case in Mysuru which is also worrying officials as it is an indication of community level infection, which could prove risky. The senior citizen, a 72-year-old man, was first treated at a private hospital in Siddaratha Layout, before being shifted to another private hospital where he was diagnosed with covid symptoms. The private hospital in Siddartha Layout has been shut and all those working there have been kept under observation. Meanwhile, the patient is said to have visited a cooperative bank in the heart of Mysuru and authorities are checking all his contacts to quarantine them. Probe still on in NanjangudThe police team investigating the pharmaceutical firm case—the biggest cluster infection in Karnataka—have started probing in different angles after it was ruled out that the infection was from some frozen consignment and due to contact of foreign nationals.  Sources claimed that one among the positive patients, who was discharged from hospital, had said that he had travelled to Kerala recently. An ADGP-rank officer has been deputed to uncover the mystery surrounding the infection at the firm in Nanjangud.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mysuru/12-fresh-covid-19-cases-take-tally-to-60-in-mysuru/articleshow/75207356.cms||Lawrence Milton
April 18, 2020||Goa||Industrial staff to get travel stickers||Panaji: The state government has decided to issue travel stickers to the employees of industrial units which are allowed to commence operations from April 20. The Goa State Industries Association (GSIA) held a meeting with government authorities on Friday to finalise the procedure for resumption of industrial activities and travel norms for the employees. “Lots of emphasis is given by the authorities to make the procedure as simple as possible so that industrial activities can be started by April 20,” GSIA president Damodar Kochkar said. Manufacturing units in industrial estates and in rural areas, who want to start operations, have been asked to submit their details online at https://forms.gle/SVigsABQJdMGR7pd6. Kochkar said that travel stickers will have to be collected from the concerned field manager of Goa Industrial Development Corporation (GIDC) by producing an undertaking from the company. “GSIA will post the format for undertaking which needs to be printed on company letterhead and duly signed and stamped by the authorised person,” he said. Industrial units that are outside GIDC industrial estate and are allowed to commence operations will need to inform the authorities which industrial estate they will want to tie up with for collection of the travel stickers. “For the units which already have permissions to operate, if they need vehicle stickers they can also apply using the form,” Kochkar said. Employees who walk to work can show their ID cards and don’t need any travel permits.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/industrial-staff-to-get-travel-stickers/articleshow/75212642.cms||---
April 18, 2020||Nagpur||Over 3,000 booked for breaking lockdown rules||Nagpur: Citizens taking the city police lightly have a warning in the statewide statistics of action taken against violators of the lockdown. Till 4pm on Friday, around 3,001 lockdown violators had been booked. The city police’s tally of action on Friday had crossed 1,119 till going to the press. Statewide, 49,756 cases have been acted upon so far, with fines of over Rs1.82 crore recovered since the lockdown was announced in the state. City police chief BK Upadhyay has also made it mandatory for officers, including Zonal DCPs, to be on the roads for six hours.They are out in two phases, between 9am and noon, and again between 4pm and 7pm, since before the second phase of the extended lockdown was announced. On Friday, Upadhyay reviewed compliance by the 33 police station in-charges regarding the implementation of the ‘Covid Yoddha’ plan, and also the measures adopted to enforce section 144 to implement lockdown, through a ‘group call’ on the wireless. Cops are now enrolling volunteer with sound background to work as ‘Covid Yodhhas’ to make announcements and convince people to remain inside home. Zonal DCP Neelotpal’s special squad has so far seized liquor and related material, including vehicles, worth Rs4.50 lakh in 11 cases since the lockdown was announced. The special squad, in their latest action, seized two vehicles worth Rs80,000 and liquor worth Rs20,000, arresting two persons from Mecosabagh in early morning action on Friday. In another raid by the special squad later in the day, two juveniles were nabbed with liquor in rubber tubes in a two-wheeler. Neelotpal has kicked started a special anti-liquor drive in north and north-west Nagpur. The top brass has also instructed the police station in-charges to deploy bike-borne ‘beat marshal’ cops to visit market places, banks, ATMs and other places, where crowding takes place. The beat marshal cops will enforce social distancing in crowded places. With the increase in numbers and span of containment areas, city police are now facing a tricky challenge of organizing manpower for sealing areas and also checking activities on the road. Around 300 traffic constables were diverted to assist in the sealing action at Santranjipura, Mominpura, Yashodhara Nagar and their adjoining localities. Despite a depleted strength, traffic department under DCP Vikram Sali has fined 926 people and seized 10 vehicles for various violations.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/over-3000-booked-for-breaking-lockdown-rules/articleshow/75210566.cms||Soumitra Bose
April 18, 2020||Bhopal||Blind bank official raped in Bhopal; hubby stuck in Rajasthan||BHOPAL: A 53-year-old visually challenged bank official, who is alone in Bhopal because her husband is stuck in Rajasthan due to the lockdown, was raped by an intruder at her home in the pre-dawn hours of Friday. Unable to describe her assailant, she has only managed to give police how his voice sounded. Police say the man had broken into her house with no other intent since her money was intact. He took away her phone, though. The husband of the survivor, who too is blind, had gone to visit relatives in Rajasthan before the lockdown and hasn’t been able to return. The SHO of the local police station said the couple has no child and she is by herself in the lockdown. “She spoke with relatives over phone till the wee hours of Friday and went to sleep at 3am. Since it was a very warm night, she left the balcony door open for ventilation. Around 4am, the intruder barged in. He clamped a hand on her mouth before she could scream and raped her, threatening to kill her if she called for help,” said the SHO. The rapist took her phone and left by the main door, locking it from outside. As soon as she realized he was gone, she ran to the balcony and screamed for help. Neighbours rushed to the house but couldn’t reach her as the door was locked. They dialed 100. The woman narrated her ordeal to police, who registered a case on her complaint. Investigators are going through CCTV footage and are tracking phone locations to identify the rapist. The SHO said it’s clear burglary wasn’t the intention as no cash or valuable was missing, apart from the phone. Police took her to hospital and have contacted Rajasthan police to arrange for her husband’s return to Bhopal. (The victim's identity has not been revealed to protect her privacy as per Supreme Court directives on cases related to sexual assault)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/blind-bank-official-raped-in-bhopal-hubby-stuck-in-raj/articleshow/75211681.cms||---
April 18, 2020||Thiruvananthapuram||Kerala: Three-year-old girl suffers burns, aunt and grandad held in Kollam||KOLLAM: A three-year-old girl child sustained severe burn injuries when her grandfather tried to attack her mother following a family feud at Nedumpana on Thursday. Kannalloor police arrested Sivankutty, 67, and his daughter Sithara of Sreyas, Puthenchantha in this connection on Friday. According to a complaint by the child’s mother, Shabana, a native of Mumbai, Sivankutty slapped her during a family feud and snatched the vessel containing boiling fish curry from her and tried to splash it on her. But, the gravy fell on the child causing serious burn injuries. Shabana, who married Sivankutty’s son Sharathlal, a doctor, while he was working in Mumbai over a decade ago, was staying with their two children in Hyderabad where Sharathlal was working. A year ago, Sharathlal shifted his wife and children to his residence at Kureeppally. However, after he returned to Hyderabad, Sivankutty, a former RPF inspector, and Sithara allegedly started inflicting injures on her and forced her to work like a servant. On Thursday, Sivankutty verbally abused Shabana and allegedly tried to slap her. When she moved away, he barged into her bedroom and snatched the boiling fish curry from her hand and tried to throw it on her. Though she managed to move away, it fell on the child who was near her. Kannanalloor police arrested the grandfather and the paternal aunt and they were remanded to judicial custody. City police commissioner T Narayanan said various sections of the IPC (307, attempt to murder, 326(A) (voluntarily causing grievous hurt using weapons or some substance), 354 (assault or criminal force to women), 323 and 324 (causing grievous hurt) and section 23 (punishment for cruelty towards children) and Section 75 of the of the Juvenile Justice Act were invoked against the accused. Meanwhile, state child rights commission also have registered a suomoto case. Commission chairman P Suresh said the commission would seek a report from the DGP, collector and city police commissioner. The condition of the child who is undergoing treatment at NS Hospital is stated to be stable. According to the doctors, though she suffered 35% burn injuries, there was no serious damage to her internal organs, but injuries on her private parts were serious.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/thiruvananthapuram/baby-girl-suffers-burns-aunt-grandad-held/articleshow/75208777.cms||---
April 18, 2020||Ahmedabad||MG Motor to strengthen its online strategy amid Covid-19||Ahmedabad: With coronavirus pandemic likely to impact the habits of car buyers in the country, SAIC owned MG Motor India is planning to strengthen its online strategy to minimize human interaction by delivering the vehicle at your doorsteps. “Post coronavirus there may be profound impact on consumer behaviour. While there would be high concerns for air quality, the online search and online buying will also increase,” said Rajeev Chaba, president and MD of MG Motor India. While the company already has a provision for online booking of vehicles, it’s presently working on developing an end-to-end seamless online shopping vertical. “This should be ready in a few weeks,” said Chaba. From selection of accessories, price quotation, buying insurance, registration and even finance options can be availed online if a customer chooses. The vehicle will be sanitised and delivered by a driver covered with Covid-19 protection kit, he said. The carmaker has launched a ‘Disinfect and Deliver’ initiative to ensure car deliveries and test drives at customers’ homes under a completely sanitised process. The staff at its dealerships have also been trained to take all the necessary steps to ensure that the service workshops and showrooms are completely sanitised. To address growing concerns of air quality in the wake of Covid-19 scare, MG Motor has partnered with Singapore-based Medklinn to explore natural sterilisation of cabin air and surfaces in its cars.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/mg-motor-to-strengthen-its-online-strategy-amid-covid-19/articleshow/75203636.cms||Maulik Pathak
April 18, 2020||Aurangabad||Beed family provides hot meals to cops in tiffin boxes||AURANGABAD: Amid the country-wide lockdown, a Beed family have come ahead of providing hot meals to the on-duty cops every day. Anil Jagtap and his family have been providing traditional home-cooked meal including roti, rice, dry vegetable and gravy since the start of the lockdown. They have also been providing food to the kin of the patients in rural hospitals. However, instead of disposable plastic packaging which increases waste, the meals are provided to the cops in tiffin boxes. “As the lockdown was announced, we planned out the food provision to the policemen. We realised that instead of using disposable packaging, it would be more appropriate to use tiffin boxes. So, we purchased 400 tiffins for Rs 30,000,” Jagtap said, who was a former district president of a political party. The hot meals are packed in the tiffin boxes and delivered to the cops. They are brought back when they are empty, washed and used the next day. “Some of the policemen have different shifts. So, some of our tiffins are not returned. But, we still have enough,” Jagtap said. When asked, what he plans to do with the tiffins once the lockdown is over, Jagtap said that he will give it to the school students for whom it may be useful.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/beed-family-provides-hot-meals-to-cops-in-tiffin-boxes/articleshow/75210543.cms||---
April 18, 2020||Pune||Taking disability in stride to deposit samples daily||PUNE: Suresh Kashid suffers from disability in one leg, but he has never let it come in the way of his duty. His job as a lab assistant with the Pune Municipal Corporation-run Naidu hospital requires him to make four to five rounds daily to the National Institute of Virology to deposit Covid-19 samples. But he has no complaints. Kashid feels it his “national duty” to serve patients in the time of the Coronavirus pandemic. Before carrying the samples to the National Institute of Virology at Sangamvadi for testing he has to check whether the names and addresses of the patients have been entered correctly. If there are any mistakes, he brings them to the notice of the doctors. “I have been working at the Naidu hospital for the past ten years. The hospital is run by the Pune Municipal Corporation. So, my salary comes from the taxes paid by people. In a way, I am their servant. So I have no complaints. Especially during times of emergency, it is more important to be here even beyond duty hours,” said Kashid. Though his normal duty hours is from 9am to 6pm, these days he has put in almost 12 hours at work. He lives near Mhatre bridge and drives around in a two-wheeler. His wife, 10-year old son and father encourage him to work and do not complain even when he has to put in long hours at work. “It is because of their support that I have been able to give my 100% at work. They tell me that in this field work comes first before family. This gives me motivation all the time to put in my best effort,” he said. After the patients' samples have been collected by technicians, doctors fill in the forms to go with the samples. “My job is to check if the names and addresses of the patients have been entered correctly as the National Institute of Virology requires all the details, such as the name, age, full address, contact number, among others. I have to check these details minutely and if there's something missing, I bring it to the notice of the doctor.” Once both the forms and samples are crosschecked then they are deposited in a box with ice packs and taken to the National Institute of Virology. “In a day, I make at least four to five rounds to the lab,” he said. Since Kashid deals directly with the samples, he has to take all precautionary measures. “At the hospital, I wear mask, gloves, cap and use sanitisers regularly. After I return home, I take a bath and then only mix with my family.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/taking-disability-in-stride-to-deposit-samples-daily/articleshow/75212645.cms||Swati Shinde Gole
April 18, 2020||Coimbatore||Cop donates one month’s salary to CM’s relief fund||Coimbatore: Police constable S Babu has donated his monthly salary of Rs 25,788 to the Chief Minister’s Public Relief Fund to combat the spread of Covid-19. He handed over a cheque to Coimbatore district superintendent of police Sujit Kumar on Friday.Babu, 35, who is unmarried, hails from Kalikkanaickenpatti village near Palani in Dindigul district. He pursued BA (Tamil literature). His father, V Subramaniam, who was police constable, died when Babu was six years old. He was recruited to the post of grade-I constable in 2008. He was posted to the Coimbatore rural armed reserve police.His mother died in April 27, 2019. “If my mom had been alive, she would have asked me to hand over the amount to the Chief Minister’s Public Relief Fund. I don’t need to pay any loan. So, I donated my one month salary to the CM’s public relief fund,” he added.“I was on duty at Mettupalayam where I saw the struggles of Covid-19 patients and their family members. So I decided to do something,” said Babu. “Our needs will be there till our death. If we have a heart to do something for the society, we can donate whatever we have.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/cop-donates-one-months-salary-to-cms-relief-fund/articleshow/75211683.cms||---
April 18, 2020||Dehradun||Industry body welcomes relaxation after April 20, unit owners remain skeptical||DEHRADUN: Uttarakhand Industry Association (UIA) has welcomed the state government’s decision to withdraw a few restrictions after April 20. However, majority of them are skeptical regarding restarting the production in view of the shortage of workers and limited mobility options in the state during the ongoing Covid-19 lockdown. UIA president Pankaj Gupta said, “The decision and its timing is perfect for the industry and I hope that things would become normal in the next three months. The industry will have to adhere to the guidelines issued by the state government in order to resume operations.” He went on to add that the recovery would have a staggered trajectory and not be rapid. Notably, more than 3,000 industry owners from across the state are part of UIA Echoing a similar opinion, Pradeep Dutta, CEO of Devbhumi Industrial Estate in Roorkee, which has over 70 medium and large sized manufacturing units, told TOI, “The factories involved in the production of essential commodities are working according to the guidelines of the state government. After April 20, I am confident that the production would get more streamlined, which is good for economy.”  Meanwhile, owners of industries based in Dehradun, Haridwar and Udham Singh Nagar, complain of shortage of workforce which they said would affect production. “The lack of public transport and mobility of finished goods are big concerns for industry owners. Shortage of workers due to the Covid-19 outbreak further aggravates our woes,” said Vineet Singhal, owner of a Kashipur-based industry. Arun Saraswat, president of Haridwar SIDCUL Association and owner of an industry, said, “It is very difficult for us to make food and lodging arrangements for workers. Also, there is no transport system to make sure that workers reach units on time.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/industry-body-welcomes-relaxation-after-april-20-unit-owners-remain-skeptical/articleshow/75210550.cms||Yogesh Kumar
April 18, 2020||Aurangabad||Sanitiser vans continue to be used despite WHO advisory||Aurangabad: Days after the World Health Organization issued an advisory stating that spraying substances to disinfect surfaces do not kill viruses which have already entered the body, the disinfectant tunnels and sanitiser vans are continued to be used in the city. Experts have said that personal hygiene and social distancing should be stressed on instead. The city police, which deploys hundreds of personnel on lockdown duty across the city, had joined hands with an NGO to set up a disinfectant cabin at the gate of police commissionerate. The cabin has sprays installed in it to disinfect the person who enters the cabin. The police personnel and visitors entering the office use the cabin. Similarly, the police department had also introduced a sanitiser van which sprays disinfectant liquid over the person entering the van. In Vaijapur, a disinfectant tunnel has been put up at the Agriculture Market Produce Committee (APMC) market. Buyers and sellers visiting the market are getting themselves sprayed in the tunnel. . However, according to the advisory issued by the WHO, spraying of alcohol or chlorine and other such substances may harm the eyes and the mouth. Experts said that disinfectant spraying may not be a good idea as it may give a false sense of protection from the virus and it can be seen as an alternative to washing hands or maintaining social distance, which should not be the case. Deputy commissioner of police Meena Makwana told TOI, “The disinfectant cabin and the sanitiser vans do not use sanitisers but use hospital disinfectant solutions procured from the Government Medical College and Hospital.” “We have not made it mandatory for the staff or visitors to use it. We also made it clear that one should not take the disinfectant spraying as a substitute for practising personal hygiene and social distancing,” Makwana said. According to Diversey, a hygiene and infection prevention solutions provider, only a hard, non-porous surface can be disinfected with the help of spraying whereas soft surfaces, such as clothing, cannot.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/sanitiser-vans-continue-to-be-used-despite-who-advisory/articleshow/75210572.cms||Arpita Sharad
April 18, 2020||Bhubaneswar||Tribal village in Sambalpur contributes to PM CARES||Sambalpur: Setting an example, every household in the tribal-dominated Dangapal village in Sambalpur’s Jujumura block on Friday contributed to the Prime Minister’s Citizen Assistance and Relief in Emergency Situations Fund (PM CARES Fund). The villagers collected Rs 27,000 with voluntary contributions varying from Rs 2 to Rs 2,222. “The country is going through a crisis and we have certain responsibility towards the country and humanity. We know we can do very little but we can always follow the government guidelines to fight the fatal virus,” said Jayant Pradhan, a villager. The village around 35 km from here comprises of around 300 households. Out of it, around 200 are tribal families with most depending upon farming for livelihood while some are daily-wage labourers. The members of Utsav Parivar Social and Cultural Trust of the village took the initiative to collect the money. At least 30 members of the trust, including women visited door-to-door and collected the money. Babita Mirdha, a Plus II, who participated in the drive to collect the money, said, “Though most of the villagers are poor, none hesitated to contribute. I believe people of my village as well as others villages will come forward to contribute to the PM CARES Fund.” Members of the trust wore masks and maintained social distancing among them while collecting the money. The money will be donated to PM CARES Fund through the Jujumura block development officer (BDO) on Saturday. “There are more than 6 lakh villages in the country. If every village contributes at least Rs 1,000, a huge amount could be collected to combat Covid-19. We made a small effort by mobilising villagers to contribute in the fight against the invisible enemy,” said Golak Bihari Pradhan, another villager.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhubaneswar/tribal-village-in-sambalpur-contributes-to-pm-cares/articleshow/75208756.cms||Subrat Mohanty
April 18, 2020||Hubballi||Zero case in Kalaburagi on Friday||KALABURAGI: Kalaburagi, one of the Covid-19 hotspots in Karnataka, has turned things around. No cases were reported in the district on Friday. Although the district has been reporting positive cases in the last few consecutive days, the latest development has brought cheers to the public as well as health care workers. On Friday, while Bidar recorded one positive case, two positive cases were recorded in Vijayapura.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hubballi/zero-case-in-kalaburagi-on-friday/articleshow/75207403.cms||---
April 18, 2020||Rajkot||24-hours curfew in Jangleshwar as lockdown defied||Rajkot: Curfew was imposed for 24 hours in Jangleshwar beginning Friday midnight after the area turned into a coronavirus hotspot with 19 out of the 30 positive cases being reported from here. “There will be no relaxation in the curfew,” said Udit Agarwal, municipal commissioner.Police was forced to clamp curfew in this area as people were found coming out despite it being declared as cluster quarantine and heavy police deployment. Some people have been escaped to Jamnagar and other areas of the city. The Rajkot Municipal Corporation (RMC) has tied up with rickshaw drivers from the same area to supply essentials like milk and vegetables to the residents of Jangleshwar. The delivery charges will be borne by the RMC.Rajkot mayor and other prominent citizens had demanded imposition of curfew in the city. On Friday, two men aged 47 and 31 from this area also tested positive. Another corona positive person recovered and discharged from a private hospital in Rajkot on Friday evening. Health officials said Mehul Kotecha, 39, was discharged after his two tests came negative. He was admitted to hospital on March 26 and tested positive the same day.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/24-hours-curfew-in-jangleshwar-as-lockdown-defied/articleshow/75208768.cms||---
April 18, 2020||Coimbatore||Coimbatore: Restrictions become part of life as new order kicks in||COIMBATORE: Life hasn’t come to a standstill in containment areas, where people are getting used to the new order. While their movement has been curtailed, they have access to essentials that are supplied at the entrance of their localities that have been barricaded. They can’t go out and others are not allowed in. And by now, they have by and large learned to live with these restrictions. The residents also don’t seem to be as panic as earlier. Take the case of Manav Mehta, a resident of West Periyasamy Road. It has been a week since he has driven or walked to another road to buy groceries or any essentials. All that he does today is to walk up to the barricade, where a vegetable vendor and milkman would come regularly, to collect his daily requirement. He said, “Earlier, we were allowed to walk freely to nearby grocery stores to buy vegetables and fruits, and to the main road to get medicines. But since Sunday, it has all stopped.” West Periyasamy Road was sealed on Sunday after four people in an apartment tested positive for Covid-19. Police subsequently barricaded entrances from DB Road and Thadagam Road. While the access road to Uzhavar Sandhai was also blocked for a couple of days, the same is open now. The residents, however, said the life had not changed much after Sunday, except for a few more restrictions. It doesn’t mean there aren’t any woes. Mehta said his maid has stopped coming to work as the area has been cordoned off. “I have become a little more dependent on my friends who sometimes pick up things like fruits for me and come up to the barricade, from where I collect them. With the vendors, friends and family members coming till the barricade, we don’t have much to complain about,” he said. S Preetham, another resident from the area, said his wife and child have not stepped out of the house since the lockdown. “I used to go out twice a week to buy groceries, which I have stopped. Now, it is the duty of our driver to go to the barricade and get groceries.” Ram Mohan, a resident of the apartment from where the people tested positive for the virus, too maintained that they have easy access to essentials. “Life isn’t same though. I used to take my dog out for a walk daily and that has stopped today. We just go downstairs and return.” He said using public utilities in their apartment was more stressful than going out to buy essentials. “We are stressed when we have to use the stairs, terrace, elevators or other common areas that haven’t been cleaned for a while. The building maintenance staff are not available due to lockdown.” Referring to the crowd at barricade to buy grocery items, Mohan said token system would come handy to manage the rush. “This would also help maintain physical distancing.” The residents said they welcomed the barricades. “Earlier, people used to go out in groups for walks, visit each other’s houses or shop for groceries twice a week, by throwing restrictions to the wind. After Sunday, the roads have been deserted and people have begun distancing themselves from each other,” Preetham said. Expressing a similar view, Mohan said people have been in stricter quarantine after barricading. “Now anyone on the road with a cold, cough or fever has to be tested for the virus. We were all screened and tested negative for the virus.” Preetham, meanwhile, said they were really shaken in the first two days of learning about the positive cases in their locality. “Now, we have learned to live with the realty.” Things are not the same on Syrian Church Road that has been barricaded since April 1. The difference is that they go beyond the barricade. Syeda Haseena, a college student, said, “We don’t have policemen in front of barricades, so we step out to buy medicines or milk. We have, however, stopped chatting with our neighbours and standing too close to them. We do catch up with them, but from a distance.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/restrictions-become-part-of-life-as-new-order-kicks-in/articleshow/75211695.cms||---
April 18, 2020||Delhi||Delhi: DMs, DCPs to help run blood donation cycle||NEW DELHI: In an order issued on Friday, the ministry of health and family welfare said that under Section 22 of the Disaster Management Act, 2005, all district magistrates and their counterpart deputy commissioners of Delhi Police would facilitate unhindered movement of blood mobile vans and transportation vans. They would also ensure movement of voluntary blood donors. The ministry issued the order while expressing serious concern over the shortage of blood collection from healthy voluntary donors due to various restrictions during the lockdown. Collection of blood from healthy donors was essential to meet the requirements of thalassemic children, pregnant women and other emergency cases like blood transfusion even during this period, the letter said. The letter stated that the state blood transfusion councils had taken all necessary steps to maintain adequate stocks of safe and tested blood by judiciously continuing blood donation activities, but were facing difficulties in getting permission for movement of mobile blood vans and blood transportation vans and voluntary blood donors.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/dms-dcps-to-help-run-blood-donation-cycle/articleshow/75212708.cms||---
April 18, 2020||Goa||No further easing of lockdown curbs||Panaji: Goa will adhere to the guidelines and relaxations announced by the Union ministry of home affairs (MHA) and will not indulge in any further easing of the lockdown restrictions, the State Executive Committee(SEC) said after the review meeting. The meeting, chaired by chief secretary Parimal Rai, noted that the MHA’s order dated April 15 did not provide scope for any further relaxations. “It was brought to notice that there would be no relaxation beyond the guidelines, and if required, the state could consider to not offer some of the relaxations in view of the local requirements and the situation existing in the bordering districts of the neighbouring states,” said the SEC in a statement. Principal secretary for science and technology Puneet Goel, secretary for transport SK Bhandari and revenue secretary Sanjay Kumar were present for the meeting, along with other bureaucrats. The SEC said that strict vigil has to be ensured at all the entry points of the state in order to rule out the possibility of people entering Goa without permission. The SEC asked the department of information and technology, and directorate of municipal administration to prepare a mechanism to monitor the movement of goods vehicles. The SEC also directed district observers and incident commanders to make regular visits to the border checkposts. Secretary for health Nila Mohanan informed the SEC that Goa does not have any hotspot for coronavirus and thus from April 20, additional economic activities can commence from April 20.  She also informed the SEC that pharma firm Abbot has developed a rapid screening test for Covid-19 which is under examination by ICMR. The SEC discussed the issue and decided that the feasibility of using such tests could be explored once ICMR approved the screening test. The SEC said that as per the new MHA guidelines, all individuals will have to wear a face cover in public places and in work spaces. “We must ensure that there are sufficient quantities of cloth masks available in the market at an affordable rateThe requirement of masks with respect to government departments should be conveyed to GSUDA by all heads of departments. It was also decided that DMA would provide necessary support to secretary, women and child development, for ensuring sufficient availability of reusable cloth masks,” the SEC said. The SEC also decided to procure 1,000 thermal guns to check the temperature of visitors and workers at all government departments.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/no-further-easing-of-lockdown-curbs/articleshow/75212681.cms||---
April 18, 2020||Aurangabad||Gangapur cops publicly shame lockdown violators||Aurangabad: The Gangapur police have come up with a unique idea of publicly shaming lockdown violators by posting their pictures on social media platforms. The police along with the district administration have installed a flex at the town’s main square, which read ‘I am an irresponsible citizen of Gangapur’. It also has a life-size picture of a man in pajamas and hens around him. Those caught violating the lockdown orders are being made to stand behind the banner and peep out from the man’s cut-out, following which his picture is clicked and circulated on social media. Officials said that most of the people found violating the lockdown orders are youths and they are reminded of their mistake in a humorous way. “Registration of offence, may have adverse consequences on such youths, when they go for government or even private jobs,” said Gangapur police station inspector Machindra Surwase. The cops said that they have to take extra precautions as Gangapur falls in the red zone, which is situated between Aurangabad and Ahmednagar city. Both cities have high number of Covid-19 patients currently. “Our intention is not to embarrass them, however, those who are least concerned about their family members’ lives, should face the heat,” said a senior officer. Since the implementation of lockdown, over a dozen offences have been registered against the violators. Over 100 bikes have been seized by the police for violating the lockdown orders. However, on Friday, as the news of installing the flex at the town’s main cross-road went viral, the number of people stepping out of homes witnessed a sudden dip. While those caught unaware pleaded for forgiveness and promised not to repeat the same mistake again. On Friday, only a few pictures were clicked and were made viral as they became the talk of the town in Gangapur tehsil as well as other parts of the district. Senior police officers have been asked by the local police to ensure that someone with a genuine reason or medical emergency should not face any harassment, punishment or embarrassing situation.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/gangapur-cops-publicly-shame-lockdown-violators/articleshow/75210599.cms||Mohammed Akhef
April 18, 2020||Pune||RTO passes for drivers and helpers to join work||PUNE: The state transport department has said that truck drivers and helpers who had gone home after imposition of the lockdown will be issued passes to resume duty. The passes will be given in coordination with their employers and the regional transport offices (RTO). "We have been providing passes for essential services. The truck drivers will be provided passes since truck movement has been allowed after April 20," state transport commissioner Shekhar Channe told TOI. Baba Shinde, president, Maharashtra State Vahan Chalak Malak Pratinidhi Sanghatna and member of the All India Motor Transport Congress, said that they have been requesting the state government to allow drivers and helpers to travel to their workplaces. "We spoke to the transport department and they have agreed. A procedure needs to be followed to ensure that they reach their workplaces without any difficulty. All the transporters have been told to provide details of their employees, the vehicle or vehicles in which they will be traveling to their workplaces, their current addresses, contact numbers etc on their letterheads and send them to their employees through WhatsApp. Once the drivers/helpers receives the same, they can approach the local RTO office for verification. Once the verification is done, they will be issued passes so that they can travel to their workplaces," Shinde said. However, sources that it would be difficult for the drivers to get passes. "In a majority of areas police have enforced strict lockdown rules. In a situation like this it is going to be difficult for drivers to go to the RTO offices to get their passes," a source in the transportation sector said. The transporters said that they were expecting just 20% of the staff to return for work. "Around 40,000 trucks operate in Pune and 15,000 people are involved in transport business. Most of the drivers and helpers hail from Marathwada area. We have spoken to them and most of them said that their families were not letting them go and that they would return only after May 10. We don’t expect many to return immediately," another transporter said. "We are expecting a government resolution on transportation of the staff. Once that happens, the RTO offices will speak with the police to enable the drivers to go to the RTO offices," he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/rto-passes-for-drivers-and-helpers-to-join-work/articleshow/75212684.cms||Joy Sengupta
April 18, 2020||Dehradun||Kumbh Mela projects may resume after April 20||HARIDWAR: Kumbh mela administration is exploring the possibility of resuming mela works that were underway before the lockdown was declared in the country. In case the government announces relaxation in lockdown conditions for certain fields after April 20, officials said they would like to complete the projects left incomplete due to the lockdown. An indication to the effect was given by mela officer Deepak Rawat when at a meeting with mela officials he asked them to assess the availability of labourers for such projects. In case labourers are available, work on the projects would begin in a phased manner, he said. Additional mela officer Harbir Singh told TOI on Friday, "Officials engaged in various projects have been directed to furnish information as to when they can resume work, how many labourers they would require, how many are available, and what would be the revised schedule of work. Once the information is received by us, a final decision regarding the resumption of work will be taken." Underground cabling is a central government project related to the Kumbh. Almost 80% of it has been done, said Pawan Singh, executive engineer of Integrated Power Development System (IPDS) entrusted with the project. The department can resume the work as soon as the lockdown is relaxed. Of the total 300-400 required labourers, the department has about 130 now and no technical workers are available, he said. He added, "If the work is resumed, the deadline for completion will have to be extended at least by the total period of lockdown." As per the initial schedule, the work was to be finished by June 30. The balance work of NH-58 (connecting Delhi to Haridwar) worth Rs 280 crore is another key project of the Kumbh which, according to NHAI officials, was to be completed by June. Only 20% of of the project has been completed so far. The remaining work includes both highway work and structure work, NHAI consultant engineer Sanjiv Ranjan said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/kumbh-mela-projects-may-resume-after-april-20/articleshow/75210579.cms||Sheo S Jaiswal
April 18, 2020||Nashik||Social distancing goes for a toss at fair price shops as people queue up||Nashik: The social distancing norm went for a toss at a fair price shop where the beneficiaries were standing in long queues without maintaining proper distance from each other for several hours on Thursday.There is a sense of insecurity among people about receiving their monthly quota of grain under the public distribution system (PDS). “There’s a huge rush at the shops continuously. For the last two days, I stayed home hoping that the rush would be less, which did not happen,” said Ramesh Kamble, a resident of Swarbaba Nagar, at Satpur. The limited timings allotted for the grocers to keep their shops open add to the worry of people, forcing them to rush to ration shops and get their grain at the earliest. “The administration every day issues new guidelines to allow the shops selling essential goods to remain open. Sometimes it is in the morning for four hours and sometimes it is in the evening ,” said Ratnamala Patil, another resident of Nashik Road, who was standing outside the fair price shop.“There have been times when we were assured the shops would be open 24x7. Since there is no consistent order, we want to ensure that we get our ration before it goes off the shelf.”The shopkeepers also face difficulty with crowding. “We have told them a number of times to maintain social distancing as the foodgrain stock is enough for everybody but nobody listens to us. I can put up two or three people from my family to ensure people stand in queues and maintain social distancing, but customers simply don’t listen,” said Lalit Kale, the shop keeper at Upanagar. He said that the timings of the grocers were not linked to the ration shops, especially when the government has asked the fair price shops to allow people to take their stocks comfortably and avoid rush. The officials from the district supply office (DSO) said that people should maintain social distancing as there is a risk of the spreading the coronavirus infection. “It is important for a person to be safe than take the ration at that hour. People should ensure they keep a safe distance and get the grain after an hour instead of pushing each other and forcing the shopkeepers to suspend the distribution,” the officer said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/social-distancing-goes-for-a-toss-at-fair-price-shops-as-people-queue-up/articleshow/75188866.cms||---
April 18, 2020||Pune||Minor fire at pharma plant in Lavale||Pune: A minor fire broke out at a storage room of a pharmaceutical company’s biotech plant on Lavale Road in Mulshi early on Friday but no one was injured. The company’s in-house staff managed to control the blaze before a fire tender of the Pune Metropolitan Region Development Authority (PMRDA) reached the spot and completely doused it. PMRDA officer Sunil Ingawale told TOI that the fire broke out on the premises of the Lupin Limited’s biotech plant. “A fire tender reached the spot and found that the store room had caught on fire,” Ingawale said. He added that the fire brigade was not aware of what the store room housed. The company’s spokesperson said in a statement that there was a minor fire at the company’s plant, which was quickly managed by the in-house team and that there was no damage, loss of life or casualties.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/minor-fire-at-pharma-plant-in-lavale/articleshow/75212667.cms||---
April 18, 2020||Bhopal||13 die in Madhya Pradesh as close encounters of wild kind increase in lockdown||BHOPAL: In lockdown, the wild seems to be reclaiming its turf, at the cost of human lives. Never before have wild animals killed as many humans in Madhya Pradesh as in the last three weeks. The toll reached 13 on Thursday when a leopard killed a nine-year-old girl near Satpura Tiger Reserve (STR). Like three others killed by tigers in the past 10 days, she too was stooping to gather mahua flowers when she was attacked. If birds and deer and even foxes are being seen on deserted roads in urban areas in the silence of the lockdown, in villages close to forests, there are close encounters with claws and fangs. Sighting of tigers on roads has increased manifold. Some health department officials had the mesmerising sight of four tigers on a road passing through Satpura forests in Balaghat district. A video of big cats napping on the road, unbothered by the vehicle has gone viral. Not only tigers, even wild elephants, sloth bears and wild boars are being increasingly sighted close to human habitations, say officials. Sometimes, the encounters get deadly. Four people were trampled by elephants in Annuppur and Seoni districts, followed by three deaths in tiger attack near Pench and Badhavgarh reserves in Seoni and Katni districts respectively and the remaining ones by sloth bears, leopards and wild boars in different regions of the state. Compensating aggrieved families has turned out into a major problem with treasury holding funds, said insiders. It was on April 2 three people including two women were trampled by a herd of 12 elephants in Rajendragram of Annupur district.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/13-die-in-state-as-close-encounters-of-wild-kind-increase-in-lockdown/articleshow/75211708.cms||P Naveen
April 18, 2020||Surat||Coronavirus lays siege to hospitals in Bharuch, Surat||Surat: Medical staffers of hospitals in Surat and Bharuch are under siege by coronavirus for the past few days. A male gynaecologist and three laboratory technicians of Bharuch’s Civil Hospital and a senior resident doctor working in COVID-19 ward of New Civil Hospital (NCH) in Surat tested positive for coronavirus on Friday. In the last two days, six medical staffers and a pregnant security guard at Bharuch’s Civil Hospital tested positive for the virus. The infection began to spread at the hospital after two nurses tasked with taking samples of suspected patients got infected and tested positive for the virus on April 15.Earlier, five staff members, including an ambulance driver, a male nurse and a ward attendant of Lokhat Hospital of Surat tested positive for COVID-19. They were infected by a coronavirus positive patient, who later died in SMIMER hospital.Surat Municipal Corporation’s health officials stated that the resident doctor working in the COVID-19 section of NCH developed symptoms of the virus and later tested positive for it. The doctor resides on NCH campus. SMC health teams have started the process of identifying his close contacts so as to shift them to quarantine facility.Dr Nilesh Patel, epidemic medical officer (EMO), Bharuch said, “Only samples of suspected patients are taken at Bharuch Civil Hospital and that positive cases are treated at Jayaben Modi Hospital in Ankleshwar. Two nurses got infected for the virus and from them it spread to other medical staff in their hospital.”Meanwhile, a staff nurse working at the COVID-19 isolation ward of Godhra Civil Hospital too tested positive for the disease on Thursday. Fifteen people working at the hospital were quarantined due to the development. Panchmahal district health department sources said results of the COVID-19 test on the woman had arrived on Thursday night and she tested positive for the viral infection.Officials said necessary personal protective equipment had been provided to the hospital. They added that the hospital will now have to probe into the reasons that led to the nurse catching the infection. The nurse was the seventh patient from Godhra Civil Hospital to test positive for COVID-19. Of them, two patients have died.Furthermore, Mahisagar district registered its first COVID-19 case at Virpur in the district. A man, who was quarantined two weeks ago after having returned from a visit to the Gulf, was tested on the last day of his quarantine and the results revealed that he was infected.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/coronavirus-lays-siege-to-hospitals-in-bharuch-surat/articleshow/75208795.cms||---
April 18, 2020||Rajkot||Seven recover in Patan, discharged||Palanpur: Seven Covid-19 patients were discharged from the Dharpur Medical College in Patan on Friday. These include three women who were under treatment since last one week. The doctors and nurses at the hospital cheered the patients as they stepped out of the isolation ward and went back home to their families. The patients too expressed gratitude towards the doctors and the nursing staff and thanked them. Five are from Nendra village 10km from Siddhapur in Patan. Of 14 patients, now 11 have been discharged and only three are under treatment, said DK Parekh, Patan DDO. TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/seven-recover-in-patan-discharged/articleshow/75208822.cms||---
April 18, 2020||Bengaluru||B’luru company guides Chandigarh for PISA||Bengaluru: While Chandigarh students will represent India in the upcoming PISA (Programme for International Student Assessment) in 2021, an ed-tech company in Bengaluru is preparing them for it. Educational Initiatives is popular among schools and educationists for the ASSET test that measures conceptual understanding and benchmarks a school’s performance against others. It’s now helping the ministry for human resource development and the Chandigarh government. PISA, conducted every three years by the Organisation for Economic Cooperation Development (OECD), measures 15-year-olds’ ability to use reading, mathematics and science knowledge and skills to handle real-life challenges. The last time India took the two-hour was in 2009. Students of Tamil Nadu and Himachal Pradesh represented India, and it ranked 72nd among 74 participant nations. “Our ASSET test used by 10,000 schools is similar to PISA. While Indian board exams and marking systems still emphasise rote learning and memorising skills, PISA is about concepts and their application. That’s why India fared badly last time. We developed a report for the HRD ministry on the gaps in learning of students in Chandigarh,” said Sridhar Rajagopalan, co-founder and chief learning officer. EI is also preparing content for teachers in Chandigarh to train students for PISA. “The strategy students use to solve questions in Indian exams is different from what’s needed for tests like PISA. It’s quite easy for students to recognise question patterns in Indian tests. The process of solving the paper is one of rapidly identifying the pattern, recalling steps and writing the down. The PISA or ASSET questions are different, and don’t follow a pattern,” Sridhar explained. On January 28, 2019, HRD minister Prakash Javedkar said India signed an agreement with OECD to participate in PISA which will “indicate the health of the education system and would motivate other schools /states in subsequent cycles”. Specific geography is covered in case of large countries. For PISA 2021, schools run by Kendriya Vidyalaya Sangathan (KVS), Navodaya Vidyalaya Samiti (NVS) and schools in Chandigarh will participate. OECD has agreed to contextualise questions for Indian students. Sridhar believes it’s not easy for India to score well in PISA. “Our entire system has to change. I don’t expect our ranks to scale up greatly in the first attempt. Most application questions are based on context which is explained in the question. This requires students to read through at least a few paragraphs to understand what’s being asked. Our average student has very poor reading ability. Developing good reading and comprehension skills in class 9 and 10 students is not easy,” he said. EI has started working with the Haryana government for the 2024 PISA by reworking its board exam model so it’s align with PISA and students can be better prepared. Unfamiliarity breeds fear When Indian students encounter PISA-type questions, many freeze at the first sign of the unfamiliar and decide they can’t solve it. Many abandon the question or decide they’ll come back to it later. The question may not be difficult if they cross this stage.. Students perform poorly with unfamiliar questions rather than genuinely difficult ones. Sridhar Rajagopalan | co-founder and chief learning officer, Educational Initiatives||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/bluru-company-guides-chandigarh-for-pisa/articleshow/75211721.cms||---
April 18, 2020||Bhopal||Madhya Pradesh’s Covid-19 shocker: Highest death rate, 1500% spurt in fortnight||BHOPAL: The alarming rate of spread of Covid-19 in Madhya Pradesh, where the number of cases tripled in a week’s time and rocketed to 1,310 by Friday evening, is causing concern across the country. This is the only state where the fight against the pandemic is on without a health or home minister, and where over 90 health officials are infected with the virus – including four IAS officers. Even the principal secretary of health is among those in hospital with Covid-19. Madhya Pradesh’s figures for Covid-19 are alarming on every count. With 69 deaths, it is the second highest after Maharashtra and has the highest death rate in the country. Every 19th coronavirus patient in MP has died. Delhi has more patients than MP, but a much lower death rate – one per 44 patients. As many as 14 deaths were reported in the state in the past 24 hours – perhaps the highest single-day toll of any state. And there have been 29 deaths in less than a week. From only 86 positive cases on April 1, the state has seen an increase of 1500%. At least 120 of them are health workers, cops or their family members. Cases linked to Tablighi Jamaat number 20 in Bhopal and about 54 in the state. Among the worst hit in MP are frontline fighters – police personnel and health department staff. The ones spearheading the fightback were infected, most of them in a nightmarish week. Several key officials of the health directorate are infected. Nearly half of Bhopal’s corona patients are health workers. The controversy over this added to the complications of fighting coronavirus, with the state government having to come out with repeated statements to claim that none of the officials violated coronavirus protocol.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/states-covid-19-shocker-highest-death-rate-1500-spurt-in-fortnight/articleshow/75211725.cms||Amarjeet Singh
April 18, 2020||Goa||Goa: With no pay, 400 migrant workers in dire straits at Kadamba Plateau||PANAJI: Around 400-odd construction workers who find themselves with no work and limited food and water stocks since the lockdown was imposed, claim they have not received any funds from the state government. Far from the fear of contracting Covid-19, the workers are worried that without work or food, their families would be pushed into starvation. The stranded workers are from Uttar Pradesh, Bihar, Madhya Pradesh, Jharkhand and Chhattisgarh. Many women and toddlers also live in abysmal conditions at the site . “From March 22 to April 1, we were left to fend for ourselves. Construction work has stopped and we have been left here,” said Ashok Kumar Kaushik, from Janjgir-Champa in Chhattisgarh. He arrived in Goa on February 27 along with 20 others from his village to work at a construction site on Kadamba Plateau. Just three days earlier, chief minister Pramod Sawant announced that 8,641 construction labourers were paid Rs 6,000 each. The state government has formulated two schemes that were meant to directly transfer funds to 15,000 construction workers and around 4,000 labourers. “Not a single person here received any money. Prime Minister Narendra Modi may say we should get paid, but you give me one example of people getting paid for doing no work,” said Pappu Singh, a resident of Rajasthan’s Alwar district. A majority of the construction workers also said they did not have the building and construction workers (BOCW) identity card, which is critical to avail the benefits that the state has declared. With food running out, members of an NGO, Goa Sikh Youth, came to their aid and has begun distributing meals on a daily basis to the stranded workers. “We serve them rice, dal and vegetables enough to last them for lunch and dinner,” said Sandeep Singh Gill. Whenever possible, Goa Sikh Youth offers the children chocolates, water bottles and biscuits. With no income, most of the workers want to go home, where it is cheaper to source groceries. Many of them also want to head home to assist in farming activities as the monsoon is approaching. “Earlier, the contractor would provide us with a water tanker everyday. Now, the shortage of water is a big problem for us,” said Haldar Kashyap. The workers were brought by two labour and construction contractors — one is based in Jaipur and the other in Goa. They said that officials from the department of health visited them to screen for Covid-19 symptoms. A week earlier, a government vehicle distributed 4kg of rice and a portion of pulses per two people. The unemployed workers, who are crucial to the state’s construction industry, want work to resume or permission to return home. “I have been working in Goa for eight years as a daily wage labourer on construction sites and I would go home after every two months, taking with me Rs 20,000-30,000 for my family. Now I don’t have money to send and my family is calling every day, asking me to come back,” said Ganesh Kushwaha from Madhya Pradesh’s Satarpur. Goa Sikh Youth has been running a community kitchen and provides food to construction workers and daily wage labourers at Mapusa, Candolim, Betim, Tivim, Assonora, Marcel and Merces. Its members cook three quintals of rice and 30kg of dal each day. “If anybody would like to help us, we need supplies,” said Gill. They prefer not to take cash donations, he said, while also appealing to poeple to lend them vehicles to deliver food.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/with-no-pay-400-migrant-workers-in-dire-straits-at-kadamba-plateau/articleshow/75212704.cms||Newton Sequeira
April 18, 2020||Aurangabad||Waluj police to get 2-hr break after 2-hr duty||Aurangabad: To ensure that policemen give their 100% while being on duty, Waluj police station of Aurangabad city has started giving a compulsory two-hour break after two hours of duty. The policemen have heaved a sigh of relief due to this arrangement. It has also been found that some of the policemen who, due to fatigue and exertion resulting from daily exhausting duty hours were seeking leave, too, have called off their plans. The officers are confident that due to this arrangment even policemen on field will work efficiently and with a cool head. This is the first police station in the state to make such an arrangement at a time when the police department is already facing an uphill task of ensuring effective lockdown. Waluj police station with three officers and 45 policemen has the largest geographical area, comprising 40 villages, 19 gram-panchayats and 15 km long Aurangabad-Pune national highway 753-F. The farthest village Pandharohar is situated at 30 km from the police station. This police team is assisted by a meagre of 10 home guards. Aurangabad commissioner of police Chiranjeev Prasad, during his visit on Friday, appreciated the move and was found checking feasibility of the idea for implementing it at other places too. “There could not be anything better than our policemen delivering their best and at the same time they getting enough rest,” said Prasad. The initiative is the brainchild of Waluj police station’s senior inspector Sandeep Gurme who has sourced the idea from Gadhchiroli district which is one of the worst naxal-infested areas in the country. To ensure that there is no compromise on the scale of vigilance, alertness and security parameters, policemen guarding key installations in Gadhchiroli, during their 12 hours shift, get two-hour long break for every two hours they work. “We need to realise the fact that our policemen too are human beings. How can we expect a man to stand for 12 hours at a stretch and deliver as per our expectations?” asked Gurme. Instead of deploying a team of six men at the checkpost, the officer has deployed a team of 12 policemen, of which, six work for two hours before take a break of two hours. To ensure that the policemen are able to take rest, a separate room has been reserved for them with facilities such as a fan, a cot and some newspapers and books. Policemen unanimously said that those commuting on roads are ready to justify their violation of lockdown. Moreover, those having political connections as well as those either belonging to well off families or government employees’ families, are amongst those that are difficult to handle. .||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/waluj-police-to-get-2-hr-break-after-2-hr-duty/articleshow/75210637.cms||Mohammed Akhef
April 18, 2020||Mangaluru||Promoting food security key to fighting pandemics: Experts||Mangaluru: While most serious cases of Covid-19 occur in patients with underlying chronic cardiometabolic conditions, a majority of them are reversible and preventable by promoting food security. All over the world, scientists and governments have been educating people with diabetes and other cardiometabolic diseases to be extra-cautions. Diabetes patients commonly have underlying heart disease, liver disease and kidney disease and are believed to be chronic inflammatory state with dysregulated immune response with underlying immunosuppression. These patients often are prone to complications and increase traction on limited medical care capacity. Dr Sandeep Samethadka Nayak, internal medicine physician in California, told TOI: “India is the diabetic capital of the globe with an estimated 10-16% of the population being diabetic or pre-diabetic. The good thing is these diseases are preventable and reversible by promoting scientific low carbohydrate food, proper exercise and good sleep. With reduction of diabetes prevalence, population and government will be more prepared to face pandemic without much panic.” “Once the country is back to normal, the government must focus on food security. Policy makers usually try to compensate for food insecurity by subsidising carbohydrate-rich food, but that does not serve the purpose in the long term. We need a long-term strategy to tackle political, economic, and cultural barriers to overcome food insecurity. Currently, most schemes of the government like mid-day meals, food supply at fair-price shops and Indira Canteens focus on supplying grains as main food. These do not have much nutritional significance. They also increase the prevalence of diabetes and other cardiometabolic diseases. Instead, the government must heavily consider providing subsidised tree nuts, seeds, greens vegetables, fish/ meat and eggs,” said Dr Nayak who is spreading awareness that diabetes is reversible. A few years ago, World Health Organisation (WHO) recommended adults and children to reduce their daily intake of free sugars to less than 10% of their total energy intake. Former minister T B Jayachandra said the government must use this period as an opportunity to put an end to malnutrition and revive food habits. Malnutrition caused 69% of deaths of children below the age of five in India, according to a Unicef report released last year. “Due to the lockdown, most youngsters working in cities have returned to villages. The government is distributing ration through fair-price shops. Though there is sufficient stock of foodgrains now, the government must encourage young workforce to take up agriculture. This is the right time to revive our food habits and traditional crops. The suggestions of experts including planners, medical professionals and agriculturists must be considered to put an end to malnutrition in the country. The Prime Minister must address the country on change in food habits and give a vision for reviving agriculture,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mangaluru/promoting-food-security-key-to-fighting-pandemics-experts/articleshow/75207504.cms||Deepthi Sanjiv
April 18, 2020||Aurangabad||Only pharmacy stores can operate in city after 5 pm||Aurangabad: To ensure stricter lockdown, the essential services establishments in the city, except for pharmacy stores, have been restricted from functioning post 5 pm. Senior officers said that though the latest order is in place for three days, it may be extended. The decision in this regard has been taken by the Aurangabad commissioner of police Chiranjeev Prasad to contain the spread of Covid-19 in the city. He told TOI, “Except for pharmacy stores, no other business establishments would be allowed to operate post 5 pm so that people remain indoors for a major part of each 24-hour cycle.” The officer reiterated that the policemen on field have been asked to abstain from using unwarranted force against the civilians, however, a standard protocol is in place for dealing with miscreants, habitual offenders and those violating lockdown for no valid reason. Moreover, the policemen have been asked to video record the suspects in case they manage to give slip to the policemen on duty so that they can be traced for initiating appropriate legal action. Starting last week, the city police have been imposing restrictions on the movement and closing down of all the essential services, except for pharmacy stores, from 7 pm. However, starting Friday, the restrictions have been stretched by two more hours to get desired results from the imposed lockdown. Sensing anxiety among those belonging to lower income group and currently struggling to meet both the ends, the police authorities have been found going out of their way to rope in NGOs and cater to as many people possible so that they don’t step out of their homes. To ensure that the policemen on duty remain on their toes, senior police officers are remaining on field for majority portion of their day. “Irrespective of the designation, police officers are remaining on field for majority portion of their day, to ensure all the lockdown related norms are followed in public domain and there is no untoward incident,” said deputy commissioner of police (zone-I) Nikesh Khatmode-Patil.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/only-pharmacy-stores-can-operate-in-city-after-5-pm/articleshow/75210661.cms||---
April 18, 2020||Rajkot||Afghan shunted out of univ hostel||Rajkot: The urge for non-vegetarian food has left an Afghan student of Marwadi University in deep trouble.Abdulla Malakzay, an eighth semester BE (electrical) student, had escaped from the hostel by jumping the fence on Thursday in search of non-veg food. Meanwhile, the university officials received a call from Gauridad village on Morbi Road that one of their students was seen moving around there. While hostel staff was waiting for him, he was found in the canteen in the evening. Malakzay was then asked to leave the campus. Naresh Jadeja, registrar of the university, said, “There are 900 students living in the hostel and we provide everything to students including medicine and soaps. Other students are scared of infection.” Malakzay had joined the course under the Indian Council of Cultural relations (ICCR) and the central government is paying this tuition and hostel fees. Talking to TOI, he said “I honestly told them that I went to get some food. Indian students are also allowed to go out. I am ready for medical check-up but after that I should be allowed to go inside.”Malakzay’s semester has ended and the examination has been postponed. He was supposed to go back to Afghanistan but could not leave India as all flights have been cancelled.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/afghan-shunted-out-of-univ-hostel/articleshow/75208859.cms||---
April 18, 2020||Dehradun||PPE kits to be routed through Centre, do not purchase directly: CS to DMs||DEHRADUN: The Principals Progressive Schools’ Association (PPSA) donated a cheque of Rs 62,01,000 to the CM Relief Fund on Friday. Contribution to the cheque amount was made by several private schools in Uttarakhand which are part of PPSA. Prem Kashyap, state president of PPSA, discussed the issues regarding the regulation that private schools can’t ask for fees during the lockdown period with CM Rawat.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/ppe-kits-to-be-routed-through-centre-do-not-purchase-directly-cs-to-dms/articleshow/75210639.cms||---
April 18, 2020||Aurangabad||Police supply sanitary pads to migrant women||Aurangabad: The Aurangabad rural police has voluntarily taken the responsibility of supplying sanitary pads to women accompanying migrant workers currently living in camps.This is the first police unit in the region to take such initiative for the women in camps. So far, the administration, along with local NGOs and individual donors, have been taking care of their food, shelter and overall health.The plight, embarrassment and odd situation faced by these women was noticed by superintendent of police (rural) Mokshada Patil during her recent visit to one of the camps. She interacted with the women and learnt about the amount of stress they go through. Patil told TOI, “When I spoke with them, they were very shy to speak about it and it made me realize the limitations they are facing in expressing themselves.”The officer soon gathered data of number of teenagers as well as adult women residing in these camps and ordered her welfare department’s police team led by an assistant inspector to deliver the sanitary pads to these women.When asked about deploying general police team comprising policemen of both the genders, the officer replied, “I don’t differentiate in between my men and women. In fact, we want to remove shyness or embarrassment element around this issue.”Already sanitary pads have been supplied to about 80 women and depending on the number of women, more are on their way to the camp. Sources said that the police will soon reach out to the health department with a request to screen these women residing at camps to check if any of them are facing health issues after some of them were forced to go through their menstrual period in unhygienic conditions.An officer from the district administration said that the government is yet to decide on the transportation issue of migrant workers residing in camps. “For now, we assume that they may have to reside there till May 3. Thanks to the initiative of rural police, it has attracted our attention to this important issue,” said the officer.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/police-supply-sanitary-pads-to-migrant-women/articleshow/75210744.cms||Mohammed Akhef
April 18, 2020||Surat||SMC set to start nCov antibody test||Surat: Surat Municipal Corporation (SMC) is set to start antibody test for coronavirus which will help doctors to know whether a person had been previously infected with the virus or not. Civic officials said antibody test will also help understand the epidemiology of Covid-19 in the country."A total of 1,000 kits for antibody test will be arriving in the city shortly. We will use the kits for community testing and for test of patients with acute respiratory infections,” municipal commissioner Banchhanidhi Pani said, adding that the antibody test will begin as soon as test kits arrive from Valsad. SMC officials said this test is also known as a serological test, which looks for antibodies in blood. The test can detect evidence of past or present exposure to coronavirus in less than 30 minutes and is different from current diagnostic test that determines infection through nasal or throat swabs. “From this test, doctors would get an idea if a person previously had a viral infection or not. Importantly, even if a person is asymptomatic, the test still can detect presence of antibodies in his/her blood,'' an SMC official said. SMC officials say antibody test will help the civic body in tracing people. Coronavirus is spread seemingly by healthy people who show no clear symptoms. Therefore, it is important to identify all those who can become potential Covid-19 carrier, they added. Meanwhile, SMC has started Covid-19 test at SMIMER hospital from Friday. Civic authorities have decided to screen all vegetable vendors after two from Varachha tested positive for Covid-19. "We will screen all vegetable vendors in the city for Covid-19,'' Pani said.Besides penalizing those who do not maintain social distancing and not wear masks, the civic body on Friday penalized 13 shop owners for not keeping sanitizers for customers. “In areas under curfew in the city, we have supplied vegetables and dairy products through special tempos,” Pani said. In the meantime, Covid-19 positive cases in Surat city touched triple-digit mark with 21 new cases recorded on Friday. Health officials said a resident doctor of New Civil Hospital and two female vegetable vendors from Varachha’s Lambe Hanuman Road were among the 46 people who tested positive for the virus. The tally of positive cases was now 108.A senior health officer said, “All the 46 cases were detected during community sampling drive. Cases are on the rise in Central Zone, Varachha Zone, Rander and Limbayat Zone. Out of 94 coronavirus patients undergoing treatment, two are on oxygen support.”Furthermore, two persons tested positive for the virus in Surat rural on Friday, taking total number of positive cases to four in rural areas of the district. A 30-year-old male from Olpad, who is a labourer, and a 45-year-old woman from Mahuva taluka tested positive for the virus. About 21 close contacts of both the patients have been shifted to quarantine facility of the government.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/smc-set-to-start-ncov-antibody-test/articleshow/75208885.cms||---
April 18, 2020||Surat||NGO donates automatic disinfectant tunnel to SMIMER and Ankleshwar hospitals||Surat: A city-based NGO donated the first fully automatic disinfectant tunnel to Surat Municipal Corporation (SMC)-run SMIMER and Jayaben Modi Hospital in Ankleshwar to protect doctors, nurses, patients and health workers from coronavirus on Saturday. Youth Nation, a city-based NGO, has tied up with Ultra Clean Room System for supplying automatic disinfectant tunnels. More tunnels will be installed at hospitals and public places in the city. The disinfectant tunnel is built with eight industrial grade brass nozzles that consumes less solution and provides maximum output with cloud like mist. The fully automatic system equipped with sensors can help in containing coronavirus transmission in public places and hospitals. Any person passing through the tunnel gets 100% covered by disinfectant solution and lowers the risk of spreading the virus. Dipak Doshi, founder of Ultra Clean Room System, said, “This tunnel will be helpful to disinfect an individual without any intervention and human touch. The moment the individual steps out of the chamber, the exit-sensor automatically deactivates the fogger machines.” Veekas Doshi, founder, Youth Nation, said, “We are planning to install the disinfectant tunnels at various public places, including hospitals in Surat. I am confident that this tunnel will help the administration in the fight against Covid-19 pandemic and secure citizens from the virus too.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/ngo-donates-automatic-disinfectant-tunnel-to-smimer-and-ankleshwar-hospitals/articleshow/75208927.cms||---
April 18, 2020||Thiruvananthapuram||Highway widening works to resume by April 20||Thiruvananthapuram: The widening works of second reach of the Karamana–Kaliyikkavila highway stretch are set to restart by April 20, when the state government will introduce relaxation in lockdown restrictions. Despite much hurdles and delays, the national highway wing of the public works department (PWD) is planning to complete the work as per the schedule. The NH wing is giving priority to complete the construction of Ayanimoodu bridge in the area. In fact, the department had introduced traffic diversion last month for the construction of bridges at Ayanimoodu and Pallichal. Though the work was progressing in full swing after traffic diversion, it was halted following the lockdown by the end of March. Already the contractor has initiated construction with available workers on Friday. “The construction of Ayanimoodu bridge will be taken up first. If men and machinery are mobilized on time, bridge work could be completed in 15 days. There will be a 2-day curing period after that,” said an official of the NH wing. The officials said that 40% of the widening work has been completed. The construction during this month is crucial as the district will start experiencing rainfall after mid-May. Sources in NH wing said that the contractor – Uralungal Labour Contract Co-operative Society (ULCCS) – is planning to complete works on time. “There is no decision to extend deadline. They have agreed to complete work as per December deadline,” an official said. Meanwhile, mobilizing the labourers will be a herculean task as majority of migrant labourers went back to their home states ahead of the lockdown. “There are only around 10% workers in the site. We are planning to secure special pass to bring the labourers from other states,” said the PWD official. ULCCS has already completed construction of retaining walls and drains. Laying of gravel was in progress in some stretches. ULCCS won the agreement for widening of 5.5 km stretch from Pravachambalam to Kodinada on an estimate of Rs 112 crore in June last year. Though the agreement was signed in June, work lagged due to delay in shifting of utilities and completion of land acquisition works. The land was handed over after completion of acquisition procedures at Old Rajapatha of Pravachambalam around three months ago. Karamana-Kaliyikkavila action council expressed doubt over completion of work on time. “It is not their fault that works got halted due to the lockdown. But, they need to speed up the work to complete it on time. More labourers have to be mobilized. Moreover, soon it will be monsoon season. Maximum work has to be completed ahead of that,” said Mannankal Ramachandra, general secretary (Nemom zone), action council.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/thiruvananthapuram/highway-widening-works-to-resume-by-april-20/articleshow/75208988.cms||Jisha Surya
April 18, 2020||Vadodara||5 Haryana-returned jamaatis booked||Vadodara: The detection of crime branch (DCB) on Friday booked five men who had returned from a religious congregation in Haryana during the lockdown last month. The police said that the five persons hadn’t taken any permission to return to the city. All of them are currently under quarantine. “All the five had gone to a mosque in Haryana for a religious congregation. They returned to the city on March 31 during the lockdown despite having no permission. All of them have been booked for flouting police notification,” said Jaydeepsinh Jadeja, DCP (crime).||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/5-haryana-returned-jamaatis-booked/articleshow/75209684.cms||---
April 18, 2020||Surat||Soon as she tested negative, EMT joins the Covid battle||Surat: She has been dealing with Covid up and close, literally. After handling nearly 60 cases till now, 23-year-old emergency medical technician (EMT) of an EMRI 108 ambulance, Hetal Patel, started showing symptoms of the virus.Patel developed weakness and body ache and started to vomit on April 14. Since she was handling suspected Covid-19 patients, she immediately approached doctors in the New Civil Hospital. Patel was put in isolation and her samples were sent of testing. However, thankfully they came out to be negative. But even when the authorities asked her to go on leave and rest, the resolute young woman refused to leave her work and soon resumed duties. Faiyaz Pathan, program manager, EMRI 108 ambulance, Surat was all praise for Patel. “She had handled nearly 60 Covid19 patients till now and when she developed similar symptoms, we were worried. But she tested negative on Wednesday, and we wanted her to take some rest. However, she refused the offer flatly and is proving to be a glorious example of dedication to work despite working in risky conditions,” Pathan added. Patel, a tribal from Gholar village in Chikhli of Navsari, said, “I was feeling normal after a day’s rest and hence I joined work. I was not afraid and fortunately I am not infected too. It is my duty to help people in this critical time. My work is more important than my taking a rest at this moment. I therefore decided to renew my fight against the spread of the virus.” Daughter of farm labourers, Natubhai and Rekhaben, Patel has been working as an EMT for the past two years after completing her nursing course.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/soon-as-she-tested-negative-emt-joins-the-covid-battle/articleshow/75208969.cms||---
April 18, 2020||Delhi||Union minister Harsh Vardhan intervenes after doctor sacked over face shields||NEW DELHI: A day after the commissioner of North Delhi Municipal Corporation, Varsh Joshi, terminated the services of a doctor at Hindu Rao Hospital (HRH) for allegedly diverting donated hospital material to people who didn’t need it, Union minister Harsh Vardhan intervened in the matter on Friday. He directed the commissioner to call the aggrieved doctor, listen to his grievances and then take any action. “I spoke to Joshi on phone and asked her to call the aggrieved doctor and resolve the issue. Please wait for her action. I am sure she would take appropriate redressal steps,” he said in his tweet. After that Joshi also replied and assured “to find an appropriate solution.” However, doctors continued to raise objections over Joshi allegedly using derogatory remarks like ‘thief’ for the terminated doctor on public platform. “The thief. If I wanted to ‘kill’ I would have started proceedings under the act. I still can, would you like that?” tweeted Joshi on Thursday while replying to queries. In another tweet she mentioned, “Theft and misappropriation have no numbers.” On doctors’ concern, Vardhan said, “I appreciate your concern for the medical community. I would ascertain the facts tomorrow and take adequate steps.” The residents’ doctor association of AIIMS had also wrote to the Union minister on Friday informing him about the event. They demanded strict action against the government executive for such “unparliamentary and threatening language at a social media platform.” Referring to the termination letter, senior Congress leader Randeep Singh Surjewala also tweeted, “Doctor terminated for arranging PPEs and N95 masks for colleagues. This is shameful and unacceptable. BJP run civic body won’t provide enough PPEs, Kejriwal government won’t chip in either. How would Covid-19 warriors fight?”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/union-min-intervenes-after-doc-sacked-over-face-shields/articleshow/75212756.cms||---
April 18, 2020||Amaravati||Andhra Pradesh stares at Rs 6,000 crore/month revenue loss due to lockdown||HYDERABAD: The novel coronavirus pandemic and the subsequent lockdown have impacted Andhra Pradesh adversely with the state losing revenues to the tune of Rs 6,000 crore per month in the form of direct taxes. Notwithstanding the direct tax revenue loss, the indirect tax revenue loss is much bigger and yet to be quantified, say government sources. AP finance minister Buggana Rajendranath Reddy said the loss suffered during the lockdown would be hard to recoup. He told TOI, “Like any other state, AP’s state GST collection is almost zero. VAT on excise and petrol sales is negligible. Indirect tax revenue losses will be much bigger. Industries and private institutions are the worst hit as productivity has come to a grinding halt.” Expressing concern over the magnitude of revenue loss, senior government officials said AP gets revenue of Rs 165 crore per day, which has now dipped to Rs 3 crore a day. “The government itself is selling liquor through its outlets. Thanks to the lockdown, the outlets are all shut and excise revenue has taken a hit. Petrol bunks are not fully functional. With restrictions on traffic movement, fuel sales have plummeted,” said a senior official. Officials said apart from the revenue loss, the government has additional expenses to meet. “The government allocates Rs 1,300 crore on Rs 1,000 cash scheme for each poor person. Plus, we incur an additional Rs 1,400 crore bill to provide essential items to white ration card holders in the state,” an official said. As per the records, AP has 1.47 crore white ration card holders. “This is a big financial burden,” he said. Meanwhile, former financial advisor to former CM Chandrababu Naidu, Kutumba Rao, wondered why AP is not raising money through bonds. “Telangana recently raised Rs 2,000 crore by auctioning bonds at RBI. Why can’t AP government do it to overcome the fund crisis?” he sought to know.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/amaravati/andhra-stares-at-rs-6k-cr/mnth-revenue-loss-due-to-lockdown/articleshow/75211797.cms||U Sudhakar Reddy
April 18, 2020||Chandigarh||This group of friends buys fodder for stray cattle||Ludhiana: While most city residents are busy complaining how the lockdown is forcing more stray cattle into residential; areas in search of food, this group of friends is pitching in to buy green fodder to feed stray cows and bulls roaming on the city roads. The friends, under the banner Jai Maa Bhramari Devi Sewa Samiti, organise langar in Banbhori Dham, Hisar district in Haryana every year. But this year, due to the curfew, they could not visit Banbhori Dham. So, they decided to serve stray cattle here. The members of the samiti will continue to feed until the curfew is in place. Dharmendra Sharma, chairman of Jai Maa Bhramari Devi Sewa Samiti said, “We collect money and every month, we facilitate pilgrimage to pay obeisance to Goddess Bhramari Devi in Hisar. We organise a bus the pilgrims and take care of them during the trip. All the expenses are borne by us. And every year, we also organise a langar at the temple.” He said due to curfew, they could not visit the temple this year, but they had already collected around Rs 3.5 lakh for langar. They decided to serve the stray cattle with that money. Sharma said it took almost a week to get permissions from authorities, as they were nudged towards feeding human beings. “But we were adamant that we would feed cattle, said Sharma and claimed that since March 31 they are doing this service. Anil Garg, president of the samiti, said, “We carry fodder for at least 400 to 500 cattle in a trolley and start from Gobindgarh crossing and cover areas like Tajpur Road, Dhandhari, Durga Colony, Sherpur, Railway colony and Kailash Nagar etc.” He said many organisations are doing their bit for providing food to the poor people who cannot earn money during the lockdown, but hardly anybody is thinking about the helpless animals. Jai Bhagwan Goel, general secretary, said, “Bhramari Devi is kuldevi for Aggarwal community.We are 10 friends and collect Rs 11,000 each and arrange money from some other members for organising langar. But now when we could not spend money in our regular activity, so we decided to spend it stray cattle.” He said stray cattle are suffering, as people are not going out to feed them leftover chapatis and such. Sanjeev Garg, who is also a general secretary, said, “Initially, for two three days we also served cooked food to poor, but they were hoarding so we decided to do something else. Then we decided to feed the stray cattle as nobody is doing anything for these homeless creatures.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/this-group-of-friends-buys-fodder-for-stray-cattle/articleshow/75210749.cms||---
April 18, 2020||Aurangabad||RBI’s eco booster shot not enough: Bank union||Aurangabad: Maharashtra State Bank Employees’ Federation has expressed its apprehensions over the measures announced by RBI to boost the country’s economy, saying that it should address the farm sector on priority.The RBI on Friday cut the 25 basis point reverse repo to 3.75% from 4%, apart from relaxing asset classification norms among other things. The economy has received a huge setback due to the Covid-10 pandemic.According to a statement by the banks federation, RBI acknowledges in its statement that comfort level in foreign exchange reserves, grain stock coupled with reduced oil prices are helping the Indian economy in the present adverse environment. “As far as comfort in the grain stock is concerned, it is the farming community which plays an important role, but are always left out. During the current crisis due to the coronavirus pandemic, the worst affected section is unorganized, migrant labour and farming community. These people are struggling for survival. RBI should have come out with reduced rate of interest for farmers,” said the federation.Federation general secretary Devidas Tuljapurkar said RBI’s announcement will not help in reducing the rate of interest on credit, but it will definitely depress the interest rates on deposits, which will hit the depositors, particularly senior citizens, hard. He said that RBI, in its first attempt, made available around Rs 3.70 lakh crore to the economy. However, as it can be observed from today’s statement, around 4.9 lakh crore is the surplus with the banking system, money parked by banks in the central bank.“Today, RBI has reduced reverse repo rate by 25 basis points, thus discouraging banks from parking funds with it and encourage lending to the productive sectors of the economy to revive it,” said Tuljapurkar||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/rbis-eco-booster-shot-not-enough-bank-union/articleshow/75210780.cms||Mohammed Akhef
April 18, 2020||Chandigarh||Akali councillor to go on hunger strike against ‘unfair’ distribution||Ludhiana: An Akali Dal councillor from ward number 2, Gurmail Singh sat on protest against unfair distribution of ration among poor on Friday. He alleged Congress leaders were picking and choosing while distributing the ration. He threatened to start hunger strike in case authorities do not take action. District president (urban) of Akali Dal, Ranjit Dhillon also joined the councillor in raising the demand. However, the councillor kept social distancing in mind and sat on protest alone near a statue of martyr Bhagat Singh at Bahadurke Road while his companions were standing at a distance from him. Councillor Singh said, in his ward, more than 10,000 poor people are waiting for help from authorities. According to him, the municipal corporation (MC) had sent ration only once to all wards. Singh said he had to personally arrange for cooked food in the ward. He accused that the Congress leaders, on the directions of MLA Sanjay Talwar, are playing politics in the distribution of essential things to the needy. He said he will sit on protest on Saturday and Sunday as well, but from Monday onwards he will begin his hunger strike at DC office if no action is taken. Meanwhile, former MLA and district president Ranjit Dhillon, who had raised this matter earlier, said people are more likely to die of hunger than coronavirus if this continues. However, MLA from east constituency, Sanjay Talwar claimed that the opposition, particularly Akali Dal leaders were trying to mislead public with false information.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/akali-councillor-to-go-on-hunger-strike-against-unfair-distribution/articleshow/75210769.cms||---
April 18, 2020||Bareilly||5 people booked for fleeing quarantine centre in Bareilly||Bareilly: An FIR was lodged against five people on Friday after they escaped from a quarantine centre in Bareilly city. Police said two of them rertuned to the facility while the rest would come back by Saturday morning.According to sources, 11 people returned to Bareilly from Jaipur on Thursday and they were taken to a 300-bed hospital in Khurram Gotiya, which has been turned into a quarantine centre.Their samples were collected for Covid-19 tests and as per protocols, they were advised to remain in the centre till they are tested negative.“However, the staff on Thursday night found out that five people had escaped, following which we called the police," Chief medical officer Dr Vineet Shukla said.Of these five people, two each are residents of Baradari and Bhojipura while one lives in Shahi. Station house officer, Baradari police station, Naresh Tyagi, said, "We have lodged an FIR against five people under sections 188 (disobedience to order promogulated by public servant), 269 (negligent act likely to spread infection of disease dangerous to life) and 270 (malignant act likely to spread infection of disease dangerous to life) of the Indian Penal Code. After returning to Bareilly, they wanted to go to their homes first, but they were directly taken to the quarantine centre. Two have returned while three will be back by Saturday morning."||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/5-people-booked-for-fleeing-quarantine-centre-in-bareilly/articleshow/75210797.cms||Priyangi Agarwal
April 18, 2020||Surat||2 caught with booze, 7 from bhajiya party||Surat: Kapodra police arrested two diamond artisans on Thursday for allegedly carrying a IMFL bottle worth Rs 200, in the pretext of working for a NGO supplying medical products. Police arrested Jigar Savaliya, a resident of Varachha and Darshan Davra, a resident of Kapodra who were driving a scooter on which they had pasted a label claiming: “On Duty Pretvo Services Pvt Ltd Medical Suppliers Non Profitable Organisation Covid-19”.When asked for ID cards, they couldn’t produce any and later police also found a bottle of Vodka, which they confessed they had bought for personal use. Cops also arrested seven persons from Netal-De Park Society in Puna on Thurdsay when they gathered in a Bhajiya party organized by Jitendra Paghdar, a imitation jewellery bizman. TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/2-caught-with-booze-7-from-bhajiya-party/articleshow/75209007.cms||---
April 18, 2020||Thiruvananthapuram||A ‘thank you’ from central govt staff||Thiruvananthapuram: Being safe and staying at home, one could do many things to thank those who work on field during the lockdown due to the outbreak of Covid-19. Taking the opportunity to thank those people, the women officers of central GST, central excise and customs in Thiruvananthapuram have come up with a video which is being widely shared on social media. The video was made by members of Vanitha Club, a women's forum in CGST office. The idea to make the video was proposed by Liji SR, private secretary to commissioner and Sita Gupthan, Hindi officer. “Our office was closed after lockdown was imposed and only some staff are working from office. We women who were engaged with work were suddenly sitting at home. The idea was proposed as a task to make an awareness video, in which we also thanked other staff, doctors and people who are working during the lockdown. My son helped me with editing the video and the work was completed within two days. We never expected that the video would receive so many views. Every member actively participated in the task and assistant commissioner Sini S too joined us. We are happy that our seniors appreciated our efforts,” said Liji. In the more than a minute-long video, the officers thank their colleagues, staff on control room duty, contingency staff, doctors, other health workers, police and other people who are working during lockdown. They also conveyed a message for social distancing, need to stay at home and to follow government instructions. The collective had first made a Malayalam version of the video and later they made another video with same message in Hindi and English for their colleagues. Employees of all ranks have acted in the video. “We have an active women’s forum and around 20 members participated in the video. When the idea was suggested, we felt the need to than these people who are working for our safety. We also wanted to convey the message of well-being of the nation,” said Nandita Vijayachandran, superintendent, CGST||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/thiruvananthapuram/a-thank-you-from-central-govt-staff/articleshow/75209033.cms||---
April 18, 2020||Chandigarh||Lockdown effect: Parks in city suffer due to lack of upkeep||Ludhiana: Despite imposition of curfew, the park management committees (PMC) are trying to manage the greenery in the parks around their localities, but they have to deal with horticulture waste that is being collected in large quantities both inside and outside the parks. Some have made pits inside parks to collect dry leaves and fallen branches. And some PMCs complained that they did not get payment from the civic body for maintaining parks so they are managing from their own resources. Baljeet Singh, a resident of BRS Nagar H block, who is general secretary of park management committee, said, “We are able to manage one park only while park under our management is getting buried under heaps of dry leaves and other horticulture waste.” He said after December 2019 they did not get any payment from the civic body to maintain two parks in the locality. He said since gardeners are not allowed to work during curfew in his area, even cutting grass has become a huge task. He claimed that at least gardeners should be allowed to come. Meanwhile, Dr D B Pandhi from Lajpat Nagar, said, “We dug two pits to collect dry leaves and other horticulture waste. Initially, there was problem of gardeners. I sorted it out after contacting the civic body officials.” According to him, they get Rs 3,000 the from civic body sporadically but this amount goes to gardener and other tasks like plantation they are collect money among themselves. Dr Pandhi said earlier the gates of park were locked, but now they have opened one gate and people are being allowed inside on condition of social distancing. A member of Kitchlu Nagar welfare association, Varinder Bhakoo said, “Our park is being managed by gardener appointed by the civic body because one park is under MC maintenance and he comes on alternate days so we are managing things.” He said these days people avoid coming to parks in large number, as only a few could be seen coming for the morning or evening walks. When contacted, supervisor of horticulture branch, Kripal Singh, said, “From almost over a month, we are stuck in curfew so may be some payments of PMCs can be pending. Regarding horticulture waste too, trolleys are being sent to lift waste in the last few days.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/lockdown-effect-parks-in-city-suffer-due-to-lack-of-upkeep/articleshow/75210794.cms||---
April 18, 2020||Bareilly||Offer prayers at home duringRamzan: Dargah Aala Hazrat||Bareilly: With the holy month of Ramzan slated to begin from April 25 or 26, Sajjadanasheen of Dargah Aala Hazrat Mufti Ahsan Raza Khan has appealed to people that they should offer prayers from their houses and not go to mosques. He also asked people to break their fasts at home and should not gather on the roads. The appeal has been made to avoid any gatherings at mosques and marketplaces as a precautionary measure against Covid-19. Nasir Qureshi, media coordinator, Dargah Aala Hazrat, said, “During a meeting, Mufti Ahsan Raza Khan said as the lockdown has been extended till May 3, people should help poor and needy with food and medicines. He said it is appropriate time to use Zakat money in helping the poor. He also asked to take care of relatives and neighbours.” Meanwhile, clerics said the duration of the 30th fast would be longest with 15 hours and 22 minutes while the first fast would be shortest with 14 hours and 39 minutes.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/offer-prayers-at-home-duringramzan-dargah-aala-hazrat/articleshow/75210786.cms||Priyangi Agarwal
April 18, 2020||Aurangabad||Cop suspended, 3 face probe for using unwarranted force||Aurangabad: Sending a strong message to policemen about using unwarranted force during the current lockdown, commissioner of police Chiranjeev Prasad on Friday suspended a police constable and ordered inquiry against three others. “The writing on the wall is clear, we will not tolerate even slightest of irrational behaviour and any illegal action from the policemen,” Prasad told TOI. The suspended constable, Yogesh Ghodke, served with the city division of Aurangabad city traffic police. On Tuesday night, he, along with three of his friends, crossed the jurisdiction of Aurangabad city and while posing as police, they assaulted people, including a farmer, with canes. One such incident took place in the limits of Karmad police, following which an inquiry revealed Ghodke and his associates’ role. This was followed by registration of an offence against him. Taking cognizance of the same, he was suspended. The other three constables have been identified as Santosh Joshi, Ashok Pahare and Mangesh Manore who were posted with the police stations of Begumpura and Kranti Chowk. They have been shunted from their current executive postings and inquiries have been initiated against them. City police chief said, “We have identified the policemen involved in the assaulting of newspaper vendors near Aurangabad central prison, thrashing of a food delivery boy at Kranti Chowk and another independent incident of similar type. A preliminary inquiry has been ordered against three police constables for their alleged misadventure and it will be followed by departmental inquiry and action against them.” Echoing the officer, deputy commissioner of police (zone-I) Nikesh Khatmode-Patil said, “We are doing our level best to ensure that no one commits any excess, be it policemen or civilian. Anyone found doing so will face legal consequences.” Senior police authorities said that apart from the director general of police’s office, the city police chief too has issued instructions to policemen asking them to not to use force against the commoners. “If policemen on duty are not convinced with the reason for which a person is caught violating lockdown order, a legal action in the form of seizing his vehicle and registration of offence should be initiated,” said an assistant commissioner of police.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/cop-suspended-3-face-probe-for-using-unwarranted-force/articleshow/75210799.cms||Mohammed Akhef
April 18, 2020||Chennai||RBI moratorium evokes mixed reactions from developers||CHENNAI: The developer community has mixed reactions to the RBI announcement of moratorium benefits to those who have taken loans from NBFCs. “From the perspective of regulatory norms to spur an economic revival, the measures announced by RBI aim to maintain adequate liquidity in the system, facilitate bank credit flow and ease financial stress,” said Niranjan Hiranandani, president of Assocham and Naredco. Many leading real estate consultants felt RBI governor Shaktikanta Das’s announcement on Friday - that the three-month moratorium is applicable to NBFCs - would help real estate developers who had taken loans from such NBFCs. The RBI’s liquidity support to the National Housing Bank should help real estate firms that have taken loans from Housing Finance Companies too. Even the Confederation of Real Estate Developers’ Association of India felt the RBI measures would bail out the realty sector. But individual developers, during the course of the day, got feedback from NBFCs, HFCs and Alternate Investment Funds that they need not expect any moratorium. “The refrain of the NBFCs is that the RBI announcement would not help big NBFCs that have funded realty firms,” said a Chennai-based developer. The RBI has estimated the outstanding of NBFCs to the commercial real estate sector at close to Rs 1.3 lakh crore as of September-end last year. “Composition of borrowing pattern of NBFC and HFC comprises different segments like bank money, international borrowing, bond market and call money market. Typically, bank borrowing doesn’t exceed 50% of overall borrowing of NBFC and HFC. So, even if banks give moratorium, the issue will remain towards the balance 50% borrowing (beyond bank borrowing) where the moratorium does not cover, and has to be serviced on time,” said Shobhit Agarwal, MD, Anarock Capital Advisors. It is pertinent to note that while the RBI has been rolling out relief packages to tide over the Covid-19 impact, SEBI, which regulates Alternate Investment Funds, is keeping silent. In view of the looming economic crisis, SEBI needs to step in before it is too late. The RBI sops may look attractive, but would not benefit the targeted segments fully, said Prakash Challa, MD of SSPDL, a Chennai-based developer. The RBI announcement says the moratorium is for EMI payments in March, April and May. It means, one needs to make the next payment only in June. “When more than 90% of the debtors had paid their March EMI weeks before the RBI announcement on moratorium was made, where is the question of someone getting three months moratorium? In effect, someone who has taken a bank loan gets only two months moratorium,” said Challa. “This is virtual global lockdown. The government and the RBI should take a holistic view of things and see how long the impact of Covid-19 could last on the economy. Even presuming that the spread of the virus is contained in two-three months, for the economy to bounce back, it may take a year from now. If the moratorium should be meaningful, it should be for a one-year period, and more importantly, banks should not be allowed to levy interest for that one-year period. When all other sectors are taking hits, how can banks alone make profits? Part of the interest burden should be borne by the bank and the balance should be compensated by the government,” said Challa. The unsettling of the migrant labour workforce on account of lockdown could delay restarting of construction activity in real estate projects. In this context, the one-year extension of date of commencement of commercial operations of the borrowing entity, announced by the RBI on Friday, could render some help, said Shishir Baijal, CMD, Knight Frank India. But it may not help all projects because banks are not willing to give the benefit of restructuring where the projects are nearing completion, said Challa.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/rbi-moratorium-evokes-mixed-reactions-from-developers/articleshow/75211798.cms||---
April 18, 2020||Bareilly||11 fresh Covid-19 cases surface in Moradabad, tally reaches 32||Bareilly: As many as 11 people, including five women and an eight-year-old boy, tested positive for coronavirus in Moradabad in a report which arrived on Thursday night from Lucknow laboratory. All of them have already been quarantined. According to sources, these people got infected by followers of Tablighi Jamaat to whom they had given shelter in their homes. After 11 fresh cases, the district tally has reached to 32 among which two are from Sambhal district. Besides, one patient has been discharged after recovering successfully while one died on Monday. Police said that all fresh Covid-19 patients are residents of Galshaheed and Barvalan locality which are declared hotspot in the city. According to police, 13 Jamaatis were hiding at different locations in the city for at least 32 days. Later, five Jamaatis were detained by police in Rampur while they were heading towards Haldwani and all tested positive. Following that four areas in city were declared high risk zone and the people had come in direct contact with these Jamatis were shifted to quarantine centres. Covid nodal officer and additional chief medical officer Dr MK Premi said on Monday, “14 people who had given shelter to Jamaatis tested positive for the disease, and now 11 more also tested positive.” CMO MC Garg said that maximum seven Covid-19 positive cases were found from Galshaheed locality who had come in direct contact of youth lived at Gariyovali mosque. “All fresh cases have been shifted to level-1 quarantine centre,” he said. On the other hand, district magistrate RK Singh said that except police, health workers and Nagar Nigam workers, nobody would be allowed to enter in eight hotspots of the city.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/11-fresh-covid-19-cases-surface-in-moradabad-tally-reaches-32/articleshow/75210806.cms||---
April 18, 2020||Aurangabad||Bank officials face tough time amid heavy rush||Aurangabad: The public sector banks in the region have been witnessing a heavy rush of the beneficiaries of PM Garib Kalyan Yojana and PM Jan Dhan Yojana queuing up at the banks making it difficult for the bank officials who are trying to maintain social distancing norm. People rush inside the bank as it is difficult for them to stand under the sun for too long. The bank officials at the counters have to step out and manage the crowd while trying to maintain social distancing norm. Soon after the lockdown was announced, the banks had issued a notification to its customers to avoid visiting banks for less important services. The banks had encouraged people to use online banking. However, most of the beneficiaries of government schemes do not have the luxury to use online banking hence they do not have other option. The daily scenario is putting the bank officials at risk. Devidas Tuljapurkar, the joint secretary of All India Bank Employees’ Association, said, “The bank officials are at risk due to the lack of planning by the government.” “Social distancing is not being followed. Security personnel are not available to manage the rush, most of the cleanliness staffers are outsourced so many choose to skip work. On top of it, the banking staff are not even included in the Rs 50 lakh health insurance cover announced by the central government for the health workers,” Tuljapurkar said. He said that the branch premises are not disinfected and the staff especially at semi-urban and rural branches are having a difficult time getting access to masks and sanitisers. Mahesh Gosavi, the deputy general secretary of State Bank of India Staff Union (Mumbai circle), said, “All the SBI branches in Aurangabad have tents where the customers can wait for their turn.” “District collector has limited the number of customers allowed inside the bank to five people at one time. The bank is ensuring that social distancing is followed.,” Gosavi added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/bank-officials-face-tough-time-amid-heavy-rush/articleshow/75210816.cms||Arpita Sharad
April 18, 2020||Thiruvananthapuram||160 pint bottles stolen from Bevco truck||Thiruvananthapuram: In perhaps the first case of theft reported in the district after the lockdown kicked in, five cases of Indian Made Foreign Liquor were stolen from a State Beverages Corporation’s truck at Mamam near Attingal. The truck was parked barely a kilometre away from the Beverages Corporation’s warehouse. Attingal sub-inspector S Salil said as per a complaint received from the truck driver there were as many as 160 pint-sized bottles of rum in the five cases. “The thieves cut the ropes and the tarpaulin sheet that secured the load to steal the cases,” Salil said. The complainant, Nityanandan, said the theft might have occurred around 3.30am on Friday, when he had gone to the warehouse to use the toilet. The truck was carrying rum bottles from the distillery at Devikulam near Kakkanad in Ernakulam. He reached Mamam on March 24. The load was meant to be unloaded at the State Beverages Corporation’s warehouse at Mamam. But due to the lockdown, the parking ground was already full of stranded trucks and Nityanandan, and two other drivers had to park their vehicles outside.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/thiruvananthapuram/160-pint-bottles-stolen-from-bevco-truck/articleshow/75209106.cms||---
April 18, 2020||Hyderabad||Telangana: Discarded teddy is symbol of fight against virus||WARANGAL: A ‘masked’ teddy bear has become an unlikely mascot for the Greater Warangal Municipal Corporation’s fight against the coronavirus outbreak. The giant teddy, found by a sanitation worker, has been put on a garbage truck going around the city to create more awareness on the spread of the disease. The sight of the teddy comes at a time when the civic body has sealed off several areas of the city due to the increasing number of cases. Several residents have lauded this effort of the GWMC saying it is a fun way to tackle an increasingly grim scenario. On Wednesday, Veera Swamy, a sanitation worker, found the teddy bear dumped in the garbage at Kakaji Colony in Hanamkonda. It struck him with an idea and he immediately put on a mask on it. Now, the teddy sits on a garbage tractor doing the rounds of the city. It carries a message on a cardboard placard tied to it telling residents: “Corona has come, wear a mask”. Speaking to TOI, Swamy said, “It troubled me to see such a beautiful toy go for waste. With sanitation workers being more vulnerable than others to this outbreak, I did what I could do to make people understand the importance to take precautions now.” Spotting the mascot at Bhramanawada, Pavan Thota, a city resident, said, “The mascot immediately caught my attention. Everyone is attracted to it, kids and elders alike, which allows the message to spread more easily.” Raghu K, who also lives in the area, was amused at the sight of the soft toy. “This is a great way to create awareness both in the battle against corona and the environment. To take something that has been discarded and put it to better use is best example of waste management. The fact that a sanitation worker thought of doing this shows how ideas can germinate from the ground up, rather than the other way around.” Acknowledging the role of the sanitation worker, GWMC tweeted, “This is called Human Spirit! Making the #BestOutOfWaste!”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/discarded-teddy-is-symbol-of-fight-against-virus/articleshow/75212765.cms||Uttara Varma
April 18, 2020||Kolhapur||Fresh cases from Belagavi put admin on alert||Kolhapur: Taking serious note of the fresh Covid-19 cases in Belgavi district in neighboring Karnataka, Kolhapur district administration has closed all the vehicular traffic, including essential commodities, from the area till further order. The order was issued when 17 patients were found in Sankeshwar taluka of Belagavi taluka on Tursday. Sankeshwar taluka is geographically close Gadhinglaj taluka in Kolhapur district and both the areas are dependent upon each other. According to the official communication released by the administration, as many as 16 villages in Sankeshwar fall in the containment zone declared by the Karnataka government. Press communication has stated that possibility of spread of Covid-19 cannot be ruled out as many of the citizens are dependent on each other for commercial and trading activities. Earlier, national highway number4, which passes through Kolhapur and Belagavi district was sealed after national lockdown was announced. However, internal roads were used by the citizens. Other bordering roads were closed after first patient was found in Belagavi district last week. According to the fresh order, all sort of vehicular traffic has been closed as a precautionary measure. Gadhinglaj sub divisional officer Vijaya Pangarkar has said that Gadhinglaj taluka has enough stock of food grains and people should not get panic to purchase only because marketplaces in neighboring state were nearer to them. Pangarkar has asked police officials to check all the vehicles, which were violating prohibitory orders and ensure that commercial vehicles were not used to ferry passengers. Pangarkar has warned stringent legal action if anybody was found violating the order. Officials said that many vehicles were going to Karnataka to fill fuel and transport the commodities despite lockdown, because of which order has been issued. On Thursday, as many 32 people were detained and taken institutional quarantine when they were found travelling in a truck. The truck, heading toward Karnataka, was stopped at Kognoli toll plaza. Karnataka officials did not allow truck to enter in their jurisdiction. The truck had pasted a sticker of essential service. The people were handed over to Maharashtra police and taken to hospital for medical checkup. Kolhapur agriculture produces marketing committee has also decided to allow only commercial vehicles on its premises. The private vehicles would not be allowed to avoid crowd and ensure social distance.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolhapur/fresh-cases-from-belagavi-put-admin-on-alert/articleshow/75213171.cms||---
April 18, 2020||Surat||Daman cop’s corona twist to B’wood hit||Surat: In spite of his gruelling shifts in duty amid the lockdown, Kunil Kumar, a home guard attached to the Daman police is a busy singer these days, crooning his message of ‘stay at home’ to the residents of the Union territory. To make the message reach out to the masses of all ages, the 45-year-old cop chose an all-time popular song ‘Hum tumhe itna pyaar karenge’ from the 1988 Bollywood blockbuster Mithun-starrer ‘Bees Saal Baad’ and added his own coronavirus twist to the version. Moving around in different areas in the union territory with a loud speaker communicating the dos and don’ts, Kumar sings: ‘Corona ko itna maar bhagayenge, ke virus hume yaad rakhe ga. Corona ke virus se hum, kitna pani pani ho gaye. Ghar se nikalna hai muskil, bahar jane se daar ta hai dil. E mere desh vasiyo, Modji ka kehna hai, ek metre ki duri rakho tum, ek metre ki duri rakhe hum, sanitizer se haat saaf karo, muh pe mask laga kar baat karo’. Kumar, whose singing talent has fetched him many an award in Daman, said, “Since the first lockdown in March, I have been singing the coronavirus version of the song in various localities. People appreciate my song and my purpose is served when my voice reaches every ear across the territory.” It must be noted that Daman is the covid-19 free territory till now. The adjoining, Dadra and Nagar Haveli (DNH) had reported a positive case. However, the patient is admitted in a private hospital in Mumbai. “These days, I am doing 12 hours duty at a stretch. Through my voice and lyrics, I am trying to spread awareness among the residents,” said Kumar, who has been in the force for two decades now. Daman police inspector, Sohail Jiwani said, “Kunil has a wonderful voice and people listen him patiently. This way, we try to reach out to maximum number of people with the most vital message of staying safe at home.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/daman-cops-corona-twist-to-bwood-hit/articleshow/75209053.cms||---
April 18, 2020||Hyderabad||Thunderstorms in Telangana from April 18, says IMD||HYDERABAD: The city is set to get relief from sweltering heat as India Meteorological Department (IMD), Hyderabad, issued thunderstorm warning accompanied by lightning, hailstorm and gusty winds at isolated places over Telangana from April 18 to 21. The maximum temperature is already hovering around 40 degree celsius. As per the Telangana State Development Planning Society, highest maximum temperature of 40.8 degree celsius was recorded at Gowliwada Jumerath Bazar (circle no. 14, Goshamahal). The lowest minimum temperature of 22.4 degree celsius was recorded at Rajendranagar (circle no. 11, Rajendranagar). According to IMD weather report, Hyderabad, Adilabad, Nizamabad, Nirmal, Komaram Bheem, Vikarabad, Rajanna Sircilla, Mahbubnagar, Peddapalli, Jagtial, Mancherial and Kamareddy will receive light to moderate thunder showers over the next four days. The activity has been attributed to a trough/wind discontinuity runs from southeast Madhya Pradesh to south coastal Tamil Nadu across Vidarbha, Telangana and south interior Karnataka.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/thunderstorms-in-t-from-apr-18-says-imd/articleshow/75211814.cms||---
April 18, 2020||Kolhapur||Woman ends life with her children||Kolhapur: A 35-year-old woman from Jaat taluka in Sangli district committed suicide along with her children — a five-year-old daughter and a three-year-old son — by jumping into a well on Thursday. According to police, the woman took the extreme step following some minor family dispute. "The woman, Babyjan Ibrahim Nadaf (35), jumped into a well at Nabalwadi with her daughter Joya and son Salman. Their bodies were fished out with the help of locals in the evening," a police officer said. "The woman wanted to go and meet her parents in Bijapur district in the neighbouring Karnataka state. Her husband and other family members told her that any kind of travel won’t be possible due to the lockdown. They tried to convince her to drop the idea and she can go once the lockdown has been lifted," he added. The woman, however, was not willing to relent. This led to a small altercation following which she took the extreme step.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolhapur/woman-ends-life-with-her-children/articleshow/75213175.cms||---
April 18, 2020||Chennai||75,000 containers stuck at Chennai Port||CHENNAI: A staggering 75,000 containers are stuck at Chennai port and the various container freight stations in the city, causing concern among the authorities. While those at the port are waiting for trucks to be transported to the container Freight station (CFS) terminals, those stuck at the freight stations are also awaiting trucks to the various destinations including industries. A senior Chennai Port official told TOI that about 25,000 containers including 12,000 imported from abroad and 1,300 set to be sent overseas have remained stacked in the terminals. At the CFS terminals, 50,000 containers lie untouched, the officer said. The problem, the official said, is that the lockdown has kept truck drivers home and the containers cannot be removed without them. About 10 days ago, the port trust authorities held a meeting with various stakeholders, which included state police personnel. The port authorities sought the help of police to bring back drivers from the various districts to operate the trucks. After some discussions, 18 drivers came to Chennai and were issued the passes required to operate the trucks by the state authorities. But, this number was deemed grossly inadequate to move the huge number of containers stuck at the port. A member of the Customs House Agents Association said the shifting of containers from the port should be completed before the lockdown is lifted. “Now, the roads are virtually empty and there will be no trouble for container-laden trucks. But, if it is put off till after the lockdown is lifted, there will be unprecedented chaos as the movement of so many trucks will leave no room for other vehicles,” he said. Agreeing with this, the port trust official said mere shifting of containers from the port to the CFS terminals will not be sufficient. Already, more than 55,000 containers are stuck at the various CFS terminals. “The state government should take steps to reopen the industry. Only then can the containers be moved,” he said. Another member of the association said the authorities at Chennai Port should fix a deadline for the companies to move the containers out of the port premises. They should then impose a penalty on those who have not moved the containers before the expiry of the deadline. Right now many agents feel that the port had given a lot of space to stack the containers, he said. “The ball is now in the court of the government, which should take the right decision to help clear the congestion at the port,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/75000-containers-stuck-at-chennai-port/articleshow/75211819.cms||P Oppili
April 18, 2020||Vadodara||Village seamstresses sew a success story with khadi masks in Gujarat||VADODARA: With the announcement of the nationwide lockdown, around 22 women of Patiya and Bamroli villages of Bodeli taluka of Chhota Udepur turned jobless. These members of different village-level self-help groups worked as tailors and were soon running out of their meagre savings. However, thanks to their skills, they stand to earn a handsome amount of Rs 1.4 lakh within a week’s time after sewing 12,000 masks which were bought by the state government to distribute among health workers and other staffers. When they came to know about the importance of masks and its rising demand, these women decided to put their tailoring skills at work and manufacture masks. “We learnt through different mediums that people were finding it hard to get masks to protect themselves. We all had stock of cloth with us and so we started making masks at our homes,” said Lalita Parmar, president of the union of all self-help women’s groups at Patiya village. On a daily basis, these seamstresses started sewing more than 1,500 masks from ‘khadi’ material which can be reused after washing and proper sanitization. “By making masks we have got employment even during the lockdown. We will continue to manufacture more number of masks so that everybody can have it,” said Geeta Rathwa, a resident of Patiya. Besides selling these masks to the government, the groups are also selling the masks to local dairy cooperatives in the taluka at wholesale rates. Parmar said that they are, however, distributing the masks among the villagers for free. “The money will be deposited with the self-help groups which will further distribute it among the groups involved in this work,” said cluster coordinator of the self-help women’s group Gopal Rathwa. The self-help women’s group are active in villages to encourage women save money and also lends them money at low interest to start small ventures. Members of these groups are involved in making soaps, incense sticks, tobacco products, tailoring work among others. Local sources said that once the lockdown is over, other groups in the district too will buy cloth from the market and start making masks.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/khadi-masks-help-these-village-seamstresses-sew-a-success-story/articleshow/75209729.cms||Jay Pachchigar
April 18, 2020||Chandigarh||Visit hospitals only if you must: Doctors||Ludhiana: Patients with non-emergency ailments rush to city hospitals, defeating the purpose of lockdown. Most city hospitals are of the view that elective outpatient department should be closed and only tele-consultancy and emergency OPDs should be made available to patients. This has become more impertinent as Covid-19 suspected cases are visiting the OPDs. The city, for instance, was gripped in panic on April 11 when a quarantine stamped woman visited OPD of Employees State Insurance Corporation (ESIC) hospital but was later sent to the flu corner of civil hospital. In the second incident, ACP who was tested positive on April 12 was first diagnosed at OPD of Satguru Partap Singh Hospital and was later taken to emergency of Covid-19 wing. In another worrying incident, three staff members of mother and child hospital of the civil hospital, including a doctor, nurse and class IV employee, had to be quarantined after a suspected Covid-19 patient from Phagwara visited hospital. Most hospitals have discussed this in various meetings with deputy commissioner Pradeep Agrawal, but he said decision is the purview of the state government. Also, ever since the OPD of civil hospital and emergency have been shifted to ESIC hospital, patients are thronging in hundreds. On Wednesday, more than 110 patients visited the hospital OPD. More than 150 emergency cases are handled in a day, including over 50 of civil hospital, 30 medico-legal cases and rest ESIC emergencies. Dr Madhu Gupta, medical superintendent of ESIC hospital, said, “There is a lot of rush and no patient seems to understand social distancing. Police force is deployed to manage them. However, it requested that patients and their caretakers should maintain social distancing and wear masks when visiting the OPD.” For an effective tele-consultancy, the doctors said the government hospitals and most private ones do not have the necessary infrastructure. “We have to deploy staff round the clock to attend patients and will have to create a helpline. But there is no such provision as of now. We need support,” said Dr Gupta. Dr Ashwani Chaudhary, medical superitendent of Dayanand Medical College & Hospital (DMCH) said, “We have introduced tele consultancy a long time ago. Patients are at risk of catching infection in hospitals. One patient sitting in the OPD might infect the one sitting next to him and situation will worsen. Thus, even after screening twice at the entrance, we have now put up a transparent curtain not only to maintain distance, but also to prevent air borne infections in our OPD rooms. The physical examination of patient is done as and when needed.” Dr Shelly, medical superintendent of Fortis Hospital, said, “We are screening properly and taking all precautions. But it is advised that patients should stay home and call emergency for an appointment.” Yuvraj Singh, a resident of Haibowal, said, “I feel people are using treatment as an excuse to go out of homes. Just visit between 11am and 2pm in any hospital, you can find patients sitting close to each other, with absolute disregard to social distancing in the OPDs. And after this, they even go out socialising in their friend’s house.” At CMCH, the OPD services have been restarted, but patients and relatives are screened at the entrance of the hospital. They are allowed to enter main hospital area and OPD areas after signing self declaration and consent forms. William Bhatti, director of CMCH, said , “The hospital staff, nurses and doctors have volunteered to continue providing services to patients.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/visit-hospitals-only-if-you-must-doctors/articleshow/75210824.cms||Mehak Jain
April 18, 2020||Chandigarh||Two cases test positive for third time||Throat swabs of two patients, who had earlier tested positive for novel coronavirus, were sent for testing the third time on Wednesday and result again declared them positive, said state health department officials.The two include a 72-year-old Jalandhar woman and a resident of Ludhiana’s Amarpura Mohalla, who is also 72 years old. The Amarpura Mohalla woman was a neighbour of the city’s first Covid-19 casualty, a 42-year-old who had succumbed on March 30. The Jalandhar woman is admitted to Christian Medical College and Hospital (CMCH). CMCH director William Bhatti said, “Her second test was conducted the previous week, in which she had tested positive. On Wednesday, we sent her throat swabs for test the third time. We have not received any report yet. She is on medication and recovering. She was admitted on March 21 with complaints of cough, fever and breathlessness. She was diagnosed with pneumonia and admitted to the isolation ward. She had first tested Covid-19 positive on March 24.” The Amarpura woman had first tested positive on March 31. A district epidemiologist said, “Her samples were sent for testing for the second time on April 7. As its report was not received, her samples were again sent 2pm Wednesday. She has been tested positive again .” Both the women had no foreign travel history. They will be again kept in isolation and samples will be sent after a week.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/two-cases-test-positive-for-third-time/articleshow/75210841.cms||Mehak Jain
April 18, 2020||Vijayawada||24 of 38 new cases in AP are from R’seema||Tirupati: Twenty-four of the 38 new cases of Covid-19 in the state on Friday were from the Rayalaseema districts of Kurnool, Chittoor, Anantapur and Kadapa. There are 572 Covid-19 cases in the state as of Friday. Thirteen of the cases are from Kurnool district, which at 124, has the highest number of active cases in the state, surpassing Guntur district. Kurnool SP Kaginelli Fakeerappa directed the district police wing to enforce strict implementation of lockdown orders to control the rise in the number of cases. The SP appealed to the public to remain indoors and warned that persons on non-essential travel will be booked and their vehicles seized. Five new cases each were reported at Chittoor and Anantapur districts, bringing the numbers up to 27 in Chittoor and 22 in Anantapur. Kdapa reported one new case and has 24 active cases. In Anantapur district, police slapped 48 cases against violators under Sections 188, 269, 270 and 271 of the IPC for violating lockdown orders. The district police wing also slapped 103 cases against 194 traders while 2,891 cases were booked under the Motor Vehicles Act and fines amounting to Rs 12.76 lakh collected.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/24-of-38-new-cases-in-ap-are-from-rseema/articleshow/75209123.cms||Sandeep Raghavan
April 18, 2020||Chandigarh||Civil hospital gets 7 thermal scanners||Ludhiana: Health department has finally delivered seven thermal scanner machines to civil hospital for screening the body temperature of visitors as well hospital staff who are frequently visiting the isolation ward and flu corner of the hospital. This will play a crucial role in the early detection of Covid-19 and restricted the attack of the deadly virus, specially among the staff of the civil hospital. The hospital authorities had asked for 10 thermal scanner machines a few days ago. They said it was the responsibility of the government to provide thermal scanner machines in wards that are prone to infection like the flu corner. Sources in the health department said the hospital authorities had raised the demand almost 15 days ago. “Moreover, hospital staff is yet to begin the service of screening the body temperature of food delivery persons, who are providing their services in two different canteens of the hospital”. Sources also said visitors of mother and child care building will now have to undergo screening as pregnant women fall under the vulnerable category.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/civil-hospital-gets-7-thermal-scanners/articleshow/75210864.cms||RAHUL TAWAR
April 18, 2020||Bareilly||Hearse driver booked for refusing totake Covid victim’s body to graveyard||Bareilly: A hearse driver and a sanitary worker were booked on Friday for refusing to take a Covid-19 victim’s body to graveyard in Sambhal. Notably, a 76-year-old Tablighi Jamaat man, who was from Tamil Nadu, died of Covid-19 on April 14 after being shifted to Moradabad in a critical condition. SP Yamuna Prasad said the two disobedient men clearly refused after being instructed by chief medical officer (CMO) Dr Anita Singh to perform their duties. CMO Singh said that she has written to relevant agencies to take action against the driver and the sanitary worker. And an FIR was later lodged against both the workers at Behjoi police station. "Since Covid-19 has been declared a pandemic, it is not expected from anyone to refuse a task assigned to him," the CMO added. “The deceased man from Tamil Nadu had tested corona positive on April 13. Since the driver on hearse duty didn’t respond to my calls even after several attempts, I had to arrange '108' ambulance for emergency service to take the body from Moradabad to Sambhal,” the CMO said, adding that at the community health centre, when the body arrived the sanitary worker refused to touch it despite being provided with all safety gears and PPE kit. Confirming the FIR, SHO Ravindra Pratap Singh said, “We have received a complaint in which it has been stated that the driver had switched off his mobile phone while the sanitary worker had refused to join duty. We are lodging an FIR under relevant sections of IPC.” Meanwhile, the 76-year-old man's body was buried at the graveyard on Thursday evening with all the rituals. CHC in-charge Dr Juhaib Karim was present on the occasion. The deceased Jamaat man was quarantined on March 31 along with 10 other Jamaatis who had attended the Delhi event in March. On April 10, his condition started to deteriorate and later he was found positive for Covid-19.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/hearse-driver-booked-for-refusing-totake-covid-victims-body-to-graveyard/articleshow/75210875.cms||Pankul Sharma
April 18, 2020||Bareilly||150 labourers from Kheri stuck in Nepal, yearn for home||Bareilly: As many 150 labourers from Lakhimpur Kheri district are stranded in Nepal because of lockdown to curb coronavirus from spreading. They all are the residents of villages along the Indo-Nepal border and used to work there in brick kilns. Now, their families have requested the district administration of Lakhimpur Kheri to bring them back home as their quarantine period is over. They have alleged that the labourers are living in pathetic conditions and denied basic facilities. These labourers were taken by surprise by the lockdown, which has now been extended till May 3. For most of these labourers, it is case of being so close to home and yet so far away. Most of them hail from Chandan Chowki, Nighasan and Sampoornanagar areas of Kheri district. According to sources, homesick and unhappy with their living conditions, some even tried to flee the shelter homes in Nepal and enter India through forest routes. But each time, they were caught by the Nepalese security men and taken to the shelter homes, back to quarantine. When contacted, DM of Kheri Shailendra Singh told TOI, "All the Indians in Nepal have been quarantined in the shelter houses in Nepal, I am in regular touch with the chief development officer of Kailali and Kanchanpur districts The officials have confirmed that proper food is provided to the Indian there but it is not possible for officials to fulfil all the demands of our people. We were told that many of them are upset as they want to come back home but that is not possible due to the restrictions." Singh added, "We also have nearly 100 Nepalese migrants staying at quarantine centres in India. These people will only be allowed to cross the border once the lockdown is lifted and we have proper permission to open the international border with Nepal." The DM added,"As of now, we are only permitting people to go back home who have completed their quarantine period and are residents of Uttar Pradesh. The migrant labourers from other states (in India) are still quarantined in Kheri and will be sent back home once the lockdown restrictions are lifted."||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/150-labourers-from-kheri-stuck-in-nepal-yearn-for-home/articleshow/75210851.cms||Kanwardeep Singh
April 18, 2020||Kolhapur||Donate medical equipment for Covid-19 hospitals: Dist collector||Kolhapur: District collector Daulat Desai has appealed to people to donate medical equipment to the Covid-19 hospitals to be set up at Shivaji University and Sanjay Ghodawat University hostels located at Atigre along Kolhapur-Sangli highway in the district. These hostels-turned-hospitals will be equipped with isolation and Intensive Care Unit (ICU) wards. A number of private universities and hospitals have expressed interest for setting up of such facilities in view of Covid-19 outbreak. A team comprising officials of various departments of the district administration visited both the hostels. During their visit, they observed that each of these hostels can have at least 500 beds. However, owing to the dearth of funds, the district collector has appealed to the people to render whatever help they can. “We have decided to set up 500-bed Covid-19 care and Covid-19 health hospitals at these two university campuses. But, we are facing shortage of medical equipment. Therefore, we are requesting all generous people to come forward and contribute for equipement such as beds and ventilators so that we can make these facilities operational.” “We have also appealed to the doctors, paramedical staff, ward boys, nurses, health workers to come forward and register themselves at Kolhapur Warriors portal. We can get their service whenever needed. Also, we need lot of technical staff to put all the equipment’s at the building infrastructure made available at these two campuses," said Desai. Apart from four major government and civic hospitals in the district, the administration has authorised six private hospitals from the city and district to admit and treat Covid-19 patients. “We are using private hospitals for institutional quarantining of suspects and Covid-19 confirmed cases. Currently, we have controlled the spread of the infection, however, we have to ensure all the facilities and arrangements are in place,” added Desai. Meanwhile, the district administration has planned to set up a Covid-19 testing laboratory at Shendapark for speeding up the testing of suspects.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolhapur/donate-medical-equipment-for-covid-19-hospitals-dist-collector/articleshow/75213179.cms||---
April 18, 2020||Rajkot||60-year-old dies in Bhavnagar||Rajkot: A 60-year-old woman Pushpa Solanki died in Bhavnagar’s Sir T Hospital on Friday. She tested positive after he death. According to officials, Solanki was a resident the area near containment zone of Vadva and was brought to the hospital in a critical condition. She was suffering from hyper tension and put on ventilator. A 25-year-old man from Samras Hostel area also tested positive. TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/60-year-old-dies-in-bhavnagar/articleshow/75209104.cms||---
April 18, 2020||Chennai||12 special inspectors in Chennai to check on victims of domestic abuse||CHENNAI: After the women’s helpline received 22 calls in the first two weeks of the month, the Crime Against Women and Children (CWC) wing of the Chennai police has appointed 12 women inspectors to keep an eye on those creating trouble at home. Since the lockdown is in force, ten of the calls were for help to buy medicines, reach doctors and such requests. However, 12 calls were family disputes. “These disputes were sorted out by our personnel who visited the homes concerned and held discussions,” said H Jayalakshmi, deputy commissioner of police. “The complainants didn’t want to take any action. They were in need of someone to sort things out and pacify them,” she said. The inspectors from the all-women police stations in Triplicane, Vepery, Mylapore, Guindy, T Nagar, St Thomas Mount, High Court, Washermenpet, Ennore, Villivakkam, M K B Nagar and Avadi are the nodal officers who will monitor the situation in their jurisdiction. The ADGP, CWC, M Ravi has also asked them to check whether all the 1091 helplines connected to the police stations are functioning properly. And a log should be maintained to ensure follow-up on the calls received. The nodal officers should ensure that police personnel visit the vulnerable households and localities every so often. Those with a history of violence against women and children should be monitored as reporting crimes inside homes will not be easy for the victims during the lockdown. The nodal officers have also been asked to ensure food, accommodation and safety for women guest workers at camps and shelters in their jurisdiction during the lockdown. They will also visit hostels and child care institutes.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/12-spl-inspectors-to-check-on-victims-of-domestic-abuse/articleshow/75211833.cms||Sindhu Kannan
April 18, 2020||Delhi||Delhi students’ broken piggy banks help feed the poor||NEW DELHI: Every morning around 7am, 10 youngsters gather at a vacant plot in Najafgarh, west Delhi, and start preparing food. By 11am, the cooking is over, and they spend an hour packaging meals in silver foil. At noon, they reach Lal Stadium in Jai Vihar where they distribute the food packs. For Raunak Thakur and his nine friends, all Class XII students of different Delhi government schools who recently wrote their board exams, the lockdown is not a time to stay at home. They broke open their piggy banks and pooled their pocket money to provide food for the luckless people hit by the Covid-19 lockdown. In six days, the schoolkids have provided food to over 1,200 families. “We heard Delhi government was giving people meals, so we thought we would extend support. We formed a group called Ek Pehel, pooled our money and now cook and distribute meals, sometimes dry items,” said Thakur, a science student at School of Excellence, Dwarka. His friend Abhishek Choudhary of Sarvodaya Vidyalaya, Dichaon Kalan, said, “There was an empty plot close to our house in Najafgarh. We collected utensils, a stove and gas cylinder and began preparing the food there.” A friend who “knows how to prepare food in large quantities” proved handy. The menu varies from day to day. When cooked, the food is either khichdi or puri-sabji. When dry, biscuits, lassi and juice are given out. The youngsters meticulously maintain hygiene and taste the food once it is cooked to ensure it is palatable. One of the parents had a service vehicle that the kids use to transport the food, having arranged a pass for the purpose. Ranjit Choudhary, a parent, accompanies the group to the distribution point. “How can we let the children go alone? That is why I go with them and help with the distribution,” he said. Inspired by their initiative, their teachers and friends now chip in with financial support. “The help we are now getting is not only from Delhi, but from across India,” said Raunak. “We will continue this so no one goes hungry during the lockdown.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/students-broken-piggy-banks-help-feed-the-poor/articleshow/75212785.cms||Shradha Chettri
April 18, 2020||Hyderabad||Telangana: Station inspector assaults Kokat revenue officer||HYDERABAD: The village revenue officer of Kokat, Yalal mandal in Telangana was assaulted by a station inspector as he was not carrying his ID card while travelling on Thursday.  The incident occured when Anjaneyulu was travelling on his bike to Khanjapur. “At 6 pm, police stopped him at Indiramma Colony containment zone in Yalal. Anjaneyulu told the cops that he forgot to carry his ID card. SI Ramesh hit him on the back with lathi even as he was showing ID details on phone,” Tandur police said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/si-assaults-kokat-revenue-officer/articleshow/75211830.cms||---
April 18, 2020||Kolhapur||Most people illiterate, cannot tell it was a lie, says Qazi||Dr S C Agarwal, a member of the team that was pelted with stones on Wednesday in Moradabad, said a video about alleged mistreatment at quarantine centres may have provoked the mob. Residents in Nawabpura where the incident occurred said they had seen a video warning them about “quarantine centres acting like detention centres”. A woman at Nawabpura told TOI, “Medical team had come to pick up four members of a family that had already lost two men within days, one of them in a quarantine centre. There was a video claiming people were being sent there to die” Moradabad SSP Amit Pathak said police were aware that some anti-social elements were indulging in rumour-mongering. In Indore’s Tatpatti Bakhal, where a medical team was attacked on April 1, Mohammad Ishrat Ali, the shahar qazi, said a message was circulating on social media that health workers were “injecting members of a community with Covid”. He added, “Most people in the area are illiterate and lack information. They couldn’t understand it was a lie.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolhapur/most-people-illiterate-cannot-tell-it-was-a-lie-says-qazi/articleshow/75213177.cms||---
April 18, 2020||Kolhapur||Show-cause notice to medical officer||Kolhapur: Civic chief Mallinath Kalshetti has issued a show-cause notice to a medical officer from Savitrabai Phule General Hospital for denying permission to a pregnant woman arrived for delivery. The incident came to light after an unknown person reported the incident to the civic body. As part of the process, Kalshetti issued a show-cause notice and asked the officer to reply in the next three days as to why disciplinary action should not be taken against him. The details of the show-cause notice to Parshuram Ganpati Kadam has been made public by the KMC. “A pregnant woman had arrived to get admitted in the hospital at around 9.00 pm on Monday. You declined to get her admitted. You said to her to go to Chhatrapati Pramila Raje Civil Hospital or any other private hospital. This act of yours violates service rules which amount to your suspension. I want a reply from you in the next three days and if it does not justifies your act, the appropriate action will be taken against you as per the rules,” the notice read. People from humble backgrounds often approach the hospital as it provides healthcare at low cost as against the private hospitals, which charges an enormous amount for treatment or delivery. The KMC's Savitribai Phule hospital also has all the facilities required and moreover has capacity more than any private maternity hospital. The doctors have to attend to the patients shift-wise. Kadam the medical officer was on the night-hour duty as per the records reported to civic chief. “We have found that the medical officer said to the woman and her relatives that no facilities are available in the hospital which is untrue,” states the notice.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolhapur/show-cause-notice-to-medical-officer/articleshow/75213181.cms||---
April 18, 2020||Surat||In Gujarat, bride, groom, kin and priests end up behind bars||SURAT: The desperation of marriage landed the bride, groom and their 14 relatives including two priests in police lock-up for violation of lockdown order at Vankal village in Navsari’s Chikhli taluka on Friday. The bride, groom and their relatives had gathered at the Bhramdev Temple at Vankal village for the marriage ceremony on Friday morning. The Chikhli police received information about the ceremony in the village and raided the venue. Led by police inspector, BK Patel, the cops arrested 14 people including the bride, groom and two priest and other family members. The police have registered an offence under section 188 of the IPC for violating the government orders and the Epidemic Disease Act against the bride, groom and their wedding guests. Sources said that Avik Patel (28), a resident of Nadarkha village and Nimisha Ramesh Patel (27), a resident of Vankal Vajifa Falia in Chikhli taluka had tied their nuptial knots at the Bhramdev temple in Vankal village. It was after the marriage was solemnised, the police raided the spot and arrested the people present there. “There was an unlawful assembly of about 14 people at the small temple in the village. All the people including the bride and groom and two priests have been arrested” said Patel. He added, “In the preliminary investigation, the couple informed that they were supposed to get married in the last week of March, but due to the lockdown they could not do so. However, when the lockdown was extended till May 3, they decided to get married. A case has been registered and investigation was on.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/i-do-in-lockdown-lands-bride-groom-in-lock-up/articleshow/75209147.cms||---
April 18, 2020||Kolhapur||First 2 cases to be discharged||Kolhapur: The brother-sister duo, who were also the first two Covid-19 cases in Kolhapur, have recovered from their infection after their latest post-isolation tests have come negative. Minakshi Gajbhiye, dean, Rajarshi Chhatrapati Shahu Maharaj Government Medical College (RCSMGMC), Kolhapur, said that both the individuals are likely to be discharged on Saturday. “They will be transported back to their home. There, they will have to be under strict home quarantine guidelines,” she told TOI. Gajbhiye said that that they have also collected blood plasma from the recovered male patient after his consent, which could be used for the Convalescent Plasma Therapy, which is also endorsed by the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR). Akshay Bafna, cardiologist, RCSMGMC, Kolhapur, said that with the extraction the RCSMGMC has become the first college in Maharashtra to collect Convalescent Plasma of Covid-19 treated patient. “It will be helpful in treating the other critical patients of COVID-19,” he said. It has to be noted that the first case was registered on March 26, when the swab sample of the man tested positive for the infection. Three days later his sister too tested positive for the infection on March 29. According to hospital officials, both the patients responded well to the treatment and recovered. The first patient’s report came negative on April 10, however, he was still admitted under isolation, while his sister’s results were announced on April 16.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolhapur/first-2-cases-to-be-discharged/articleshow/75213182.cms||Piyush Bhusari
April 18, 2020||Chandigarh||Medicos sent to ‘hotspot’ villages to avoid OPD rush||Ludhiana: A few days after Chowkiman village, Sohian Road in Jagraon Tehsil has been declared as Covid-19 ‘hotspot’, as two persons were tested positive, police department of Jagraon in association with doctors have started organising health check-up camps in villages. Two teams of two doctors each have volunteered to go to villages during this lockdown dedicate three hours every day. Ten days ago, a 55-year-old man who had Tablighi attendee and his contact 31-year-old male from Ramgarh Bhullar Village tested positive. Even though there are more than 100 clinics and 16-17 hospitals catering primary care, barely people are visiting OPDs due to fear. Thus, doctors have organised camps in Dalla, Kaunke Kalan and Galib Kalan villages on Friday and extensive testing was done. Not only Chowkiman and nearby villages, but all the villages in Jagraon will be covered soon. Jagraon police have provided doctors with vehicles and necessary medicines. An announcement is made in the village a day in advance. Every patient is examined for fever before being examined by the doctor. Police officers will also explain the importance of sanitising hands and the necessity to wear masks. The medicines prescribed by the doctors will be home delivered by policemen. Acoording to Sharan Kaur from Kaunke Kalan, “I am suffering from coronary disease and has already undergone angioplasty. Usually, I buy every week but the lockdown had deprived me of the necessary supplies. Now they have provided me medicines for a month.’ Senior superintendent of police, Vivek Soni, said, “These are tough times and we need to contribute towards our society in whatever way we can. This initiative was taken up after we could synergise NGOs through a Common Donation Area.We have four doctors working with us, Dr Aman Sharma, posted in Police Line Jagraon, Dr Suryakant Singla, Dr Sahil Mittal, Dr Harpreet Buttar from private hospitals. We hope that more doctors and donors shall join our initiative in times to come.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/medicos-sent-to-hotspot-villages-to-avoid-opd-rush/articleshow/75210907.cms||Mehak Jain
April 18, 2020||Bareilly||Attack on health workers: Police approach magistrate at 3 am to seek remand for 17 accused||Bareilly: In a rather rare move, police in Moradabad approached a magistrate around 3 am on Thursday for remand orders to be issued for 17 accused, including seven women, arrested for attacking a team of health workers and policemen on Wednesday at Nawabpura locality.“It was an emergency situation and we had inputs that a huge crowd might reach the police station where ten accused were kept in lock-up,” circle officer Rajesh Kumar said.Soon after the remand orders were issued by the magistrate, the accused were taken to jail early morning on Thursday.Moradabad additional superintendent of police (city) Amit Kumar Anand said that after procuring remand orders, they shifted the 17 accused to jail around 5 am on Thursday.Meanwhile, police said that 12 more suspects were detained on Friday and they are being interrogated. Besides, police raids are on to nab the absconding accused. The ASP said that at least 40 accused had been identified through CCTV footage and clippings shot by the local residents.“All accused will be slapped with the National Security Act and other relevant sections of IPC,” the ASP said.Notably, a mob over a hundred people including women had attacked a team of health staff and policemen after they visited the Nawabpura locality to take the family members of a man who had died of Covid-19. The rioters vandalised two ambulances and police vehicles and pelted heavy stones from rooftops targeting policemen. Two doctors and four policemen were seriously injured during pelting stones.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/attack-on-health-workers-police-approach-magistrate-at-3-am-to-seek-remand-for-17-accused/articleshow/75210885.cms||Pankul Sharma
April 18, 2020||Hyderabad||Epidemic outbreaks: Mosques have shut doors during Ramzan in past||HYDERABAD: The call by Muslim religious leaders to not offer congregational prayers, including Taraweeh (late night prayer), in mosques during Ramzan in view of Covid-19 may have surprised many, but it is not the first time that such an advisory or decree (fatwa) has been issued in Hyderabad. In the last 120 years, such a fatwa had been issued at least twice during Ramzan urging Muslims in the princely state of Hyderabad to stay indoors and not visit mosques for the five daily obligatory (Farz) prayers. Mosques were closed for prayers even during Fridays, as being followed now to beat Covid-19, during the regimes of Nizam VI Mir Mahbub Ali Khan and Nizam VII Mir Osman Ali Khan whenever there were outbreaks of plague and cholera. They were also closed during the outbreak of infamous Spanish Flu of 1918. Historical data shows that mosques were closed for brief periods for at least half a dozen times. Three such incidents (1915 cholera, 1918 Spanish Flu and 1927 cholera) coincided with Ramzan, the Muslim month of fasting. Moulana Syed Ghulam Samdani Ali Quadri, president of Seerat-un-Nabi Academy, told TOI that it was not for the first time that mosques in Hyderabad were closed for congregational prayers during Ramzan. “I have heard from my father that mosques were closed during outbreak of epidemics both during the rule of Nizam VI and Nizam VII. If plague or other infectious diseases were prevalent during Ramzan, then even Taraweeh prayers too were suspended,” Quadri said. Hyderabad state had its first recorded plague epidemic in 1897 while the city witnessed plague for the first time in 1911. The princely state had witnessed 18 epidemics of plague between 1919 and 1945, says urban planning specialist Kevin B Haynes, who did research on development of modern Hyderabad. INTACH Hyderabad convener P Anuradha Reddy said while plagues had devastated Hyderabad several times, it was the Spanish Flu of 1918 that resulted in the negative decadal growth of Hyderabad’s population in 1921 census. The year 1918-19 was the worst with plague killing 21,000 people and malaria killing 80,000. Spanish Flu coincided with Ramzan in 1918. Ramzan that year fell during June-July. The cases peaked in September-October, subsiding only in November that year. Archival records show that 3,50,000 people or over 2% of the population of 1911 in Hyderabad state had died. That mosques and other places of worship were closed can be gauged from the account of a Christian missionary Robert Chauvelot, who in his book, ‘Mysterious India, Its Rajahs, Its Brahmans, Its Fakirs’ gave an account of his visit to Hyderabad during 1919-20, when another round of plague caused havoc in the city. Robert had to undergo sanitisation several times and visit hospital for check-up every other day, as a precautionary step.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/epidemic-outbreaks-mosques-have-shut-doors-during-ramzan-in-past/articleshow/75212781.cms||Syed Akbar
April 18, 2020||Bareilly||Man booked after son posts obscene photo on school's edu WhatsApp network||Pilibhit: The father of a class VII student has been booked after his son allegedly posted an obscene photo on the WhatsApp education network being operated for giving online lessons to students during the lockdown period.According to the school principal, the photo was posted on April 13 on the WhatsApp education network of the school from the mobile phone number of the boy's father that is enlisted in school records.The next day, the school summoned the boy's father. But instead of cooperating with the school authorities, the man allegedly misbehaved with the principal and abused his son's woman class teacher when asked to tender a written apology. The school has a video footage of the man's alleged misbehaviour, claimed the principal.The principal immediately referred the matter to the school's Lucknow regional office as well as the city magistrate, seeking permission to take legal action in the matter.The principal claimed parents of 48 students called up the school to register their objections.City magistrate Arun Kumar Singh said he had directed the principal as well as the SHO concerned to lodge an FIR in the matter.Shrikant Dwivedi, SHO of Pilibhit Kotwali police station, said an FIR against the boy's father was lodged under IPC sections 504 (intentional insult with intent to provoke the breach of peace), 506 (criminal intimidation) and provisions of the Information Technology Act, 2000.Hema Khanna, assistant professor, psychology department, Bareilly College, said, “Before beginning online classes, schools should share detailed guidelines with teachers, students and parents to avoid any such incident." (With inputs from Priyangi Agarwal)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/man-booked-after-son-posts-obscene-photo-on-schools-edu-whatsapp-network/articleshow/75210920.cms||---
April 18, 2020||Hyderabad||Telangana sees 15% decline in forest fires this year||HYDERABAD: The Telangana forest department has stated that there has been a decline in forest fires by 15% so far in the year. Majority of the fires were termed as “routine advance operations” undertaken to set up fire lines. The department also stated that the intensity of forest fires has come down drastically, thanks to the surveillance by two satellites hired by Forest Survey of India (FSI) that chalk out preventive measures particularly during summer months.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/t-sees-15-decline-in-forest-fires-this-yr/articleshow/75211850.cms||---
April 18, 2020||Kolhapur||Ready-to-cook, canned food go off shelves||Kolhapur: The ready-to-cook food has gone off the shelves of many shops in the city. Even bakery products are in short supply, as confectionary units are closed due to the lockdown. Sunil Mali, a bakery owner, said, “Since the lockdown, the ready to cook food is in short supply. For some time, there was a shortage of breads and canned food. These products are in demand as the trend to make these products, especially noodles, at home is seen. The noodle making factories are closed and same is the case with the breads, jams and readymade sauces. We get some of it but in little quantity and have to take huge efforts to make them available.” The retail malls too have shortage of these supplies. The manufacturers said that they had shut their factories for a while, however they have got the permission to operate the factories recently. “We make breads, toasts and other bakery products. Now with the staff of few people, we have started making bread. We receive calls daily from shops across the district. Currently, very few are operating and taking the risk,” said a baker from Shirol on the condition of anonymity. Vegetables, food grain are available in abundance; however, items such as poha and suji are in shortage. The retail shop operators claimed that earlier the delivery of these items has gone down to two to three days, instead of daily supply earlier. The state government has declared that the some of the businesses and factories will be allowed to resume their operations after April 20 if the spread of covid is halted. The agro-based factories and food-making and packaging factories are likely to be opened in the first lot. It will then help resume the supply of the essentials currently in shortage.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolhapur/ready-to-cook-canned-food-go-off-shelves/articleshow/75213196.cms||---
April 18, 2020||Bareilly||No active Covid-19 positive case inBareilly, all six patients discharged||Bareilly: Bareilly district currently has no active Covid-19 positive case. Four people tested negative on Friday and were discharged from hospital. A family of six members who resides in Subhash Nagar locality were tested positive for Covid-19 in Bareilly last month. Two of them were discharged on Monday, while the remaining four returned home on Friday. Chief medical officer (CMO) Dr Vineet Shukla said, “After four people were tested negative in two consecutive test reports, Bareilly district is left with no active positive case for now. Though these six people did not infect any individual in the last 20 days when they were under treatment at hospital, they might have spread the virus before admission to hospital. Hence, we will continue our active case surveillance to trace suspected cases and collect samples. The health teams will continue sanitation exercise and strict implementation of lockdown.” District surveillance officer Dr Ranjan Gautam said, “These four people were sent home in an ambulance. The discharged patients have to undergo 14-day home quarantine.” A 34-year-old man who works at a Noida-based firm which has reported several cases of novel coronavirus was the first Covid-19 case to be reported from Bareilly. After he was tested positive following his return to Bareilly, it later came to light that the man infected his parents, wife, brother and sister. He had earlier said, “I reached Bareilly on March 22 and it was only on March 26, I learnt that two of my colleagues tested positive and I went to district hospital to get myself tested. I felt extremely sad when I came to know that I have contracted coronavirus to my parents, wife, brother and sister. I thought for days that if I had not returned home, it would not have happened. However, I was sharing the building with 12 people in Noida and they could have got infected through me if I had stayed back.” On Friday, 93 health teams conducted door-to-door survey and visited 6,598 houses, but did not find any suspected case there. Officials said 515 teams have surveyed 47,832 houses so far in the six-kilometre radius of the patients’ house. Meanwhile, Indian Veterinary Research Institute (IVRI) on Friday tested 27 human samples for Covid-19 and all were found negative. RK Singh, director, IVRI, and VK Gupta, joint director and nodal officer of Covid-19 testing here, attended a video conferencing meet with state chief minister Yogi Adityanath and apprised him of progress in testing of samples here.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/no-active-covid-19-positive-case-inbareilly-all-six-patients-discharged/articleshow/75210932.cms||Priyangi Agarwal
April 18, 2020||Surat||Lockdown extends newly married couple's separation||Surat: Lockdown has temporarily separated this 21-year-old woman from Dindoli area of the city from her husband just four days after their marriage. The woman had come to the city as a part of tradition on March 12 and was followed by her 12 relatives from Maharashtra to take her back. Now, all of them are stuck here because of lockdown. Sidhhika got married to Rohit, 24, a farmer in Nandurbar district of Maharashtra, on March 8. The marriage was held in Rajade village and Sidhhika stayed at her husband's house until March 12. She came to her parents’ house and was supposed to return after 10 days. Her mother-in-law and other 11 relatives arrived in the city on March 21 to take her back, but then ‘janata curfew’ and lockdown were announced. Since then all of them, who are residents of different places in Maharashtra, are living with the woman's family.The family is somehow managing food for so many guests as the groceries at home have completely exhausted. Arranging food and their accommodation have become a challenge for the family."Tradition mandates a newly married woman return to her parents' home for a few days. Her in-laws had arrived to take her back, but before they could leave lockdown was imposed," said Shantaram Marathe, father of the woman."We tried to send them in a hired van on April 14 when the first phase of lockdown was to end. But they were stopped in Tapi district and sent back," added Marathe, an employee in a textile market in the city. "I never imagined that the separation will be this long. It is over a month now. However, I regularly talk with my husband on phone," said Sidhhika."The actual married life of a couple starts only after the bride returns from her parents' home,” said a family member."I hope the lockdown ends soon or we find some way to send the guests and my daughter back to her husband's home," Marathe added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/lockdown-extends-newly-married-couples-separation/articleshow/75209179.cms||---
April 18, 2020||Hyderabad||Hyderabad: Customs paves way for life-saving drugs’ export||HYDERABAD: Amid growing Covid-19 worries and intense lockdown, Hyderabad customs is working round-the-clock to ensure seamless export and import of essential cargo, particularly life-saving medicines to various parts of the world. Hyderabad being a major pharmaceutical hub, export of drugs is crucial in the fight against Covid-19. At the GMR air cargo complex and inland container depots (ICDs) in Sanathnagar and Thimmapur, the customs officials clear consignments of chemicals related to pharma products, respiratory equipment, animal feed, machinery parts, etc. Around Rs 107 crore worth of IGST refund claims and Rs 15 crore of drawback claims had been facilitated for exporters during the lockdown period from March 24 to April 11. Stating that life-saving medicines had been airlifted to several countries like Indonesia, customs principal commissioner JS Chandrashekar said, “MHA has declared customs as an essential service and all imports and exports are to be allowed. We have cargo from ports like Chennai and Vizag and consignment coming on trains and containers to ICDs at Sanathnagar and Thimmapur.” He said around 30-40% of consignment is cleared in a day. “Most of the bulk drugs and formulations are exported out of the country. Covid-19 testing kits and ventilators are being imported. Qatar Airways and Turkish Airways are operating cargo services. Though China is worst affected, we are getting consignments from China also,” he said. “Consignments also arrive from Singapore, Hong Kong, Gulf and the US. Recently, a pharma company wanted to export hydrocychloroquine to Brazil, which was restricted initially. We allowed its export after restrictions were lifted,” he added. The customs also facilitated export of 50 kg of lifesaving medicine to Medan, Indonesia, by a non-scheduled flight on April 8. Seamless movement of cargo has also been ensured by the GST commiserate, which facilitated issuance of passes from Hyderabad to medical labs. This will enable the units to commense production of critical medical supplies.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/customs-paves-way-for-life-saving-drugs-export/articleshow/75211883.cms||U Sudhakar Reddy
April 18, 2020||Bareilly||Man violates lockdown to go fishing, dies in crocodile attack in Kheri||Bareilly: A 55-year-old man’s urge to have fish proved too costly for him, as he ventured out for fishing, defying lockdown orders, and ended up getting attacked by a crocodile. The incident took place near Ull river in Mahevaganj area of Lakhimpur Kheri district on Wednesday night. The man succumbed to his injuries in a hospital on Thursday. Giving details, a resident who didn’t want to be named said, “Victim Shree Kishan was fond of eating fish. Since the meat market was closed due to lockdown, he and six of his friends went fishing on Wednesday evening.” “When Kishan was catching fish, a crocodile came out of the river and attempted to pull him in deep water. He shouted for help after which his friends charged at the crocodile with batons and stones, forcing the reptile to leave his prey,” the resident said. Kishan was immediately rushed to the hospital, but his wounds were deep and excessive blood was lost. “The victim died during treatment at the district hospital and his body was handed over to the family after autopsy on Thursday,” SHO Kotwali police station Ajay Mishra said. Meanwhile, divisional forest officer Sameer Kumar told TOI, “We came to know that a man injured by a crocodile died during treatment at the district hospital. He was fishing in Ull river which has a healthy population of crocodile.” When asked if the family is eligible for compensation, the officer said, “The family has not contacted us for claiming any compensation.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/man-violates-lockdown-to-go-fishing-dies-in-crocodile-attack-in-kheri/articleshow/75210927.cms||Kanwardeep Singh
April 18, 2020||Business||Trump announces $19 billion for US farmers hurt by coronavirus||WASHINGTON: US President Donald Trump on Friday announced a $19 billion relief program to help farmers cope with the impact of the coronavirus pandemic through a package that will include direct payment and mass purchases of produce, meat and other products. "These are great people, great Americans, never complain, never complain - they just do what they have to do," Trump said while announcing the farm aid program, which he said will have $16 billion in direct payments. US Department of Agriculture in a statement said it will partner with regional and local distributors to purchase $3 billion in fresh produce, dairy and meat. The decision comes amid rising pressure from the US farm lobby for government purchases as growers and ranchers struggle to get their goods to market because of disruptions caused by the pandemic, forcing some to throw out their supplies. Reuters reported on Monday that Department of Agriculture will spend up to $15.5 billion in the initial phase of its plan to bolster the nation's food supply chain against the impacts of the outbreak, the first big push to ensure the pandemic does not trigger consumer food shortages. In the United States, several beef and pork packing plants have shut down as workers fall ill or die from the virus. Smithfield Foods, for example, the world's biggest pork processor, said on Sunday it will shut a US plant indefinitely due to a rash of coronavirus cases among employees and warned the country was moving "perilously close to the edge" in supplies for grocers.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/international-business/trump-announces-19-billion-for-us-farmers-hurt-by-coronavirus/articleshow/75213682.cms||---
April 18, 2020||Nashik||21 fresh Covid-19 positive cases emerge in Malegaon||Nashik: With 21 new Covid-19 positive cases registered in Malegaon city in just 24 hours, the total number of cases in Nashik district has gone up from mere two cases on April 7 to 69 on Friday.Of the 21 positive cases, the throat swab samples of seven people came out positive late on Thursday, while the remaining 14 tested positive on Friday evening.“Of the 69 cases across the district, 60 are from Malegaon,” district collector Suraj Mandhare said.“All the tests were conducted at Dhule’s Government Medical College and Hospital (GMCH) and all the patients were already under institutional quarantine. The patients have now been admitted to the sub-district hospital in Malegaon,” he said.According to a district administration official, two of the 21 patients died on Thursday night. Their throat swab samples that were sent to the GMCH lab came out positive for Covid-19 on Friday. The deceased were a 55-year-old woman and an 81-year-old man.“Those who have tested positive for Covid-19 are in the age group of 9 and 71 years. The district has so far recorded three deaths due to Covid-19. The third patient had died in Dhule GMCH while undergoing treatment,” the official said.“Entire Malegaon city has been sealed as per World Health Organisation (WHO) guidelines to arrest the spread of coronavirus,” he added.Nashik district registered its first Covid-19 positive case on March 29 wherein the throat swab sample of a person in Lasalgaon village was tested positive. The second person to test positive was a resident of Nashik city and he had travelled to Agra. However, the number positive patients in Malegaon has surged from five on April 8 to 60 on Friday.Nashik city has nine cases of which four are from rural areas, while one person is a migrant labour.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/21-fresh-covid-19-positive-cases-emerge-in-malegaon/articleshow/75211881.cms||Abhilash Botekar
April 18, 2020||Kolhapur||33 Sangli residents quarantined||Kolhapur: The Sangli district administration has put as many as 33 Sangli residents, who returned from Varanasi via roadways on Thursday, under institutional quarantine. Their throat swab samples have been collected and sent for testing, the reports of which are awaited. When contacted, district collector of Sangli Abhijeet Chaudhary told TOI, “We received information about a bus carrying travellers at one of our checkpoints. From there it was diverted to one of our institutional quarantine facilities in Miraj. We have collected throat swab samples of these travellers on Thursday and the results are likely to arrive by Friday evening or Saturday morning.” Chaudhary said that the travellers are accompanied by a police personnel carrying district collectorate authorization letter to allow travel of these tourists. “We are verifying the authenticity of the letter, but as of now it does seem genuine,” he said, adding that all the travellers are from a village in Sangli district and were stranded in Varanasi due to the nation-wide lockdown. When asked about the age and health of the travellers, Chaudhary said that he is unaware of the details, however, nothing serious has been reported so far.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolhapur/33-sangli-residents-quarantined/articleshow/75213202.cms||---
April 18, 2020||Rajkot||Double murder accused from MP held in Morbi||Rajkot: A double murder accused who had fled to Morbi after committing the crime in Madhya Pradesh (MP) was arrested in Morbi on Friday. Police said the accused, identified as Raju Damor (30), had allegedly shot Daulatram Sivi (60) and his son Bablu Sivi (35) to death by firing from his country made pistol in March in Pavali village of Rajgadh taluka in Dhar district of MP. “Damor had shot dead the Sivi father-son duo after the duo tried to prevent him from stealing eight gunny bags of onions. There were seven other co-accused who had accompanied Damor to commit the theft of onions,” said V B Jadeja, inspector with Morbi local crime branch. After he was booked for the murder and loot by Rajgadh police station, Damor had fled from Rajgadh and was hiding in Morbi. “We received a tip-off about Damor’s whereabouts in Morbi from Rajgadh police station, who traced him on the basis of his cellphone location,” said Jadeja.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/double-murder-accused-from-mp-held-in-morbi/articleshow/75209206.cms||---
April 18, 2020||Delhi||Delhi: Plea seeks restraint on ‘religious profiling’||NEW DELHI: A plea filed in Delhi high court on Friday sought its urgent intervention to restrain chief minister Arvind Kejriwal and his administration from classifying some Covid-19 cases as “Tablighi Jamaat” or “Masjid Markaz”, alleging that it amounts to religious profiling. The petitioner, a lawyer, alleged that after the Tablighi event, the CM in his tweets “deliberately” classified several affected cases under a separate caption — “Masjid Markaz.” The petitioner claimed that such reporting of the novel coronavirus cases has led to “communal antagonism” and perpetrating of hatred against a specific religious community. The petition, which is likely to be heard on April 20, contended that communal reporting of the Tablighi Jamaat incident should stop immediately, and any delay in doing so would promote ill-will, enmity and hatred. It also contended that Kejriwal had violated the guidelines issued by the World Health Organization, which had strictly advised to refrain from religious profiling of the coronavirus cases. The petition sought the court to issue directions to Delhi government to prohibit and stop dissemination of coronavirus infection data allegedly on the basis of religious or communal classification. However, the petition failed to mention that Delhi government on April 11 dropped the name “Markaz Masjid” from its daily health bulletin of Covid-19 status, and replaced the column with “Special Operation”.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/plea-seeks-restraint-on-religious-profiling/articleshow/75212821.cms||---
April 18, 2020||Kolhapur||Satara: 21 more put in isolation||Kolhapur: The Satara health department has identified 21 more close contacts of the four Covid-19 positive patients who were identified on Wednesday. They have been put in isolation at six hospitals. The department had admitted 113 suspects on Thursday. With 21 more identified on Friday, the total number of close contacts has gone up to 134. District health officer, Satara, Aniruddha Athalye said the throat swab sample reports of 146 suspects were likely to be received from B J Medical College, Pune, on Friday evening or Saturday morning. District civil surgeon Amod Gadikar said the throat swab sample of one of the patients post-isolation period has been sent. If it turns out to be negative, the patient is likely to be discharged. At present, there are eight active patients in Satara district. Meanwhile, the helpline started by the district administration has received 1,145 calls till date. Besides addessing grievances and counselling citizens, the helpline ‘1077’ is also providing information on available ration, providing essentials to workers from other states and also registering passes required for emergency travel.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolhapur/satara-21-more-put-in-isolation/articleshow/75213209.cms||---
April 18, 2020||Bareilly||Over 10 people booked for misbehaving with ANM in Faridpur||Bareilly: Police have booked over 10 unidentified people for allegedly misbehaving with an auxiliary nurse midwife (ANM) and damaging her mobile phone when she visited Faridpur on Friday to conduct a survey related to Covid-19.Medical officer in charge of community health centre in Faridpur, Dr Basit Ali, said, “An ANM was collecting information on people who have returned to Bareilly from other states and may be showing symptoms of Covid-19. While she was conducting the survey, 10-15 people misbehaved with her and damaged her mobile phone and register.” Police have lodged an FIR against unidentified people under IPC sections 188 (disobedience to order promulgated by public servant), 269 (negligent act likely to spread infection of disease dangerous to life), 270 (malignant act likely to spread infection of disease dangerous to life), 332 (voluntarily causing hurt to deter public servant from his duty), 353 (assault or criminal force to deter public servant from discharge of duty), 427 (mischief causing damage) and 504 (intentional insult with intent to provoke breach of peace).||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/over-10-people-booked-for-misbehaving-with-anm-in-faridpur/articleshow/75210941.cms||Priyangi Agarwal
April 18, 2020||Kochi||Kerala: Social distancing, masks to be norm, say experts||KOCHI: Social-distancing measures and wearing of masks while venturing out will be enforced, intermittently, until at least 2021 in a bid to stop the spread of the coronavirus, say experts dealing with the Covid-19 crisis in the state. They are hopeful that by then a vaccine or effective treatment would be in place. As per the post-lockdown scenario prepared by the Kerala state disaster management authority (KSDMA) as part of a study conducted for the state government, even a medium spread of Covid-19 could see cases peak in April 2021. However, even after a few relaxations in the lockdown, if people continue to actively break the chain and ensure physical distancing, then the state will manage to ensure a low spread, with no worry of an outbreak. “We need to continue with all preventive measures even as we carry on with day-to-day work. Masks and social distancing will have to become the norm till there is a vaccine for coronavirus,” said Dr Anish T S, associate professor for community medicine at Thiruvananthapuram Medical College Hospital, who is presently posted as public health consultant with KSDMA. The state government is also planning to make social distancing and hand wash facilities mandatory once it relaxes lockdown norms. States like Delhi, Uttar Pradesh and Odisha have made wearing masks compulsory. “None of the measures are standalone, they are all complementary in our fight against Covid-19. Right now, people have to ensure these measures as part of social etiquette and responsibility,” said Dr Amar Fettle, state nodal officer (public emergency), currently in charge of anti-Covid-19 efforts in the state. A recent paper, published in the journal Science, concludes that a one-time lockdown will not be sufficient to bring the pandemic under control and that secondary peaks could be larger than the current one without continued restrictions. “It is not going to stop in a few weeks. We expect this infection to be there for another six to nine months and by then people will develop natural inherent immunity after developing mild symptoms,” said Dr Anup R Warrier, consultant, department of infectious diseases & hospital infection control, Aster Medcity. Meanwhile, some private hospitals have already started preparing their staff to the new way of life. They are also insisting that patients who come to hospitals wear masks. “We are training our staff in this aspect and asking them to limit interactions with patients, wherever possible, without being disrespectful. For another year or so, we will have to learn to live completely different lives,” said KIMS Healthcare Group chairman Dr M I Sahadulla.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/social-distancing-masks-to-be-norm/articleshow/75209225.cms||Preetu Nair
April 18, 2020||Rajkot||Leopard mauls priest to death||Rajkot: A temple priest was killed after he was suspected to have been attacked and dragged into the forest by a leopard in Bhavnath Taleti (valley) of Junagadh on Thursday night. Police found the half-eaten body of Ramdas Bapu (75) on Friday morning. “It is suspected to have been the handiwork of a carnivora. However, the real cause of the death will be ascertained once the postmortem is done,” said Pradeepsinh Jadeja, Junagadh deputy superintendent of police. One Kalan Paraghi spotted the body and informed Bhavnath police station officials. “There was a well-defined blood trail left on the footsteps of the temple. The body was found 150-feet inside the bushes from the temple,” said Jadeja. “We are waiting for the report of the forensic post mortem to ascertain whether a carnivora had killed the sadhu or the sadhu had already been dead before the carnivora took away his body,” said Sunil Berwal, Junagadh deputy conservator of forest.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/leopard-mauls-priest-to-death/articleshow/75209266.cms||---
April 18, 2020||Kolhapur||All major vegetable markets shut to avoid rush in Kolhapur||KOLHAPUR: The Kolhapur Municipal Corporation (KMC) has shut the major vegetable markets in the city to avoid congestion in order to contain the spread of the disease. Spaces near residential areas have been allocated to vendors and farmers to sell fruits and vegetables following the social distancing norm. The decision has been taken by civic chief Mallinath Kalshetti after discussion with officials and staff of various departments. When the lockdown began last month, circles were drawn to ensure people stand at sufficient distance from each other. The KMC observed that people are not maintaining social distancing in some of the markets. Kalshetti in his order said, “We have found that the social distancing rule as per the guidelines issued by the government was not being followed in the major vegetable and fruit markets. It may cause the transmission of Covid-19. So, we have decided to decentralise the markets. In each ward, we have allocated space for the vendors and the farmers maintaining social distancing.” The vendors have been asked to shift to the nearby localities. Each registered vegetable vendor has been asked to sit at the places allocated to them. The carts with vegetables and fruits have been allowed in the residential areas.  Kalshetti said he has made sure that vendors and customers wear gloves and masks. “The gloves and masks are also mandatory for ration shops, retail shop operators. The staff there has to ensure that proper distance is maintained among customers. The ward-level staff has been deployed to monitor these decentralised small markets," said Kalshetti. On Thursday, an operator of a ration shop from Rajarampuri was fined Rs 1,500 for not using mask and gloves. A medical shop operator from Jawaharnagar was fined Rs 500 for the same  Kalshetti has warned of action against the shop operators if they are found flouting the rule. However, the police are finding it difficult to manage people thronging to the roadside vegetable vendors. The police are making arrangement for the elderly people to reach out to the nearby vegetable vendors or retail shops.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolhapur/all-major-vegetable-markets-shut-to-avoid-rush/articleshow/75213217.cms||---
April 18, 2020||Vijayawada||TN criminal wanted in 61 cases apprehended||Tirupati: Palamaner sub-division police on Friday arrested a criminal wanted in connection with 61 different cases registered against him in Tamil Nadu. According to Palamaner sub-inspector V Rama Krishna, the accused Sengadu Venkatesan (38), is a native of Sengadu village near Walajapet in Tamil Nadu and is wanted in various murder, dacoity and kidnap cases registered against him in the neighbouring state. Tamil Nadu police issued a lookout notice against Venkatesan after he escaped from police custody while being shifted from Chengalpet magistrate court to Vellore central prison on March 2. Palamaner police took Venkatesan into custody when he was found during a routine vehicular check near a local checkpost late on Thursday night. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/tn-criminal-wanted-in-61-cases-apprehended/articleshow/75209246.cms||Sandeep Raghavan
April 18, 2020||Bareilly||IVRI lab begins testing of human samples for Covid-19||Bareilly: The bio-safety laboratory level-3 of the Indian Veterinary Research Institute (IVRI) here began testing of Covid-19 samples from Thursday. The health department in Bareilly provided the first five human samples. The laboratory was set up in 2011.Till now, the health department had been sending samples to Lucknow for testing. It would take at least 48 hours for the test reports to arrive hereNow, with the IVRI facility, test reports would be available on the same day itself.Officials said the IVRI would test 50 samples a day and may increase it to 150 samples later.RK Singh, director, IVRI, said, “A total of five samples were tested on Thursday and the reports were sent to the chief medical officer (CMO), Bareilly, which is the state nodal office."VK Gupta, joint director, Centre for Animal Disease Research and Diagnosis (CADRAD) and nodal officer for Covid-19 sample testing at IVRI, said, “The testing of Covid-19 samples began after we received part supply of reagents from the state government and district administration.”Though IVRI on Thursday tested only five samples from Bareilly district, the laboratory here would soon receive samples of suspected cases of novel coronavirus not only from Bareilly but neighbouring districts as well.Sources said state government would soon attach districts with IVRI for testing. Dr Vineet Shukla, CMO, said, “All the five samples tested negative for Covid-19. The testing at IVRI will save time and cost of transportation as we used to send samples to Lucknow by road.”After the spread of novel coronavirus in the country and increasing workload at government laboratories, the Indian Council for Agriculture Research (ICAR) permitted IVRI’s laboratory to test human samples for Covid-19. It was decided that state government would provide diagnostic kits and reagents to the institute. The state government attached two microbiologists from the government medical college, Budaun, to IVRI for three months for assisting staff here in sample-testing.Apart from testing human samples for Covid-19 tests, IVRI is one of three institutes identified by the government that would test suspected cases of novel coronavirus among animals.After Bronx zoo in New York reported a case where a human infected a tiger with Covid-19, the government has put zoos, wildlife sanctuaries and tiger reserves on alert across the country.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/ivri-lab-begins-testing-of-human-samples-for-covid-19/articleshow/75210982.cms||Priyangi Agarwal
April 18, 2020||Jaipur||Rajasthan: Govt teachers seek age bar for field duty||JAIPUR: Jaipur Municipal Corporation (JMC) has been avoiding sending workers or officials above 50 years of age to coronavirus hotspots for field duty fearing they are more vulnerable to the virus. But this is yet to be followed by the education department which is sending government teachers nearing retirement for door-to-door surveys without any safety gear. Vineeta Aggarwal (name changed), a 59-year-old government teacher from Jaipur who is set to retire in December, has been given the responsibility of door-to-door survey. She said, “Since March, I have been screening and doing door-to-door surveys. We have to come into contact with thousands of people daily. When other departments have age-related relaxations, then why don’t we.” Another government teacher Suman Sharma (name changed) said that it is scary for her as she already suffers from other illnesses. “I have high blood pressure and arthritis. We have asked for relaxations from the government, but received no reply,” said Sharma. Teachers have been given the charge of quarantine centres where patients are kept and shelter homes where migrant workers are kept. Around 1.5 lakh government teachers are involved in the Covid-19-related duty in Rajasthan, but the government is yet to provide any safety gear or PPE kits to them. After much discussion, they were provided with one mask, which the teachers said is inadequate for the long duty hours. A senior education department officer on condition of anonymity said, “We have given relaxation to ailing teachers and those who are pregnant. But giving relaxation on the basis of age is difficult. Most of the aanganwadi workers who consist a major portion of door-to-door survey workers, are above 50 years of age. We have issued circular to the district collectors to give proper safety kits to the teachers involved in survey duties. It will be implemented soon.” General secretary of Rajasthan Primary and Secondary Teachers’ Union Vipin Sharma said, “Teachers have never been on priority of the government. We are on the forefront and apart from giving us PPE kits, there should be age relaxation given to us. One government teacher in Jaisalmer was found positive who was involved in survey duties. When sanitation workers are not sent on field then why teachers. Giving us one mask is not enough.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/govt-teachers-seek-age-bar-for-field-duty/articleshow/75211905.cms||---
April 18, 2020||Hyderabad||Withdraw case against V Hanumanth Rao: Uttam Kumar Reddy||HYDERABAD: Telangana Congress president N Uttam Kumar Reddy said while TRS ministers and leaders were moving even in the red zones in violation of social distancing and lockdown norms, the ruling party is preventing Congress leaders from reaching out to the poor. “Police cases are being booked against the Congress leaders to prevent them from distributing food and other essential items to the needy,” he alleged. He demanded immediate withdrawal of cases against party MLA P Veeraiah from Bhadradri and former MP V Hanumanth Rao and other party members.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/uttam-withdraw-case-against-vhr/articleshow/75210978.cms||---
April 18, 2020||Nashik||32 high-risk contacts traced in Sanjeev Nagar||Nashik: A total of 32 high-risk contact patients have so far been traced in Sanjeev Nagar containment area on the Satpur-Ambad Link Road after a 63-year-old woman from the area tested positive for Covid-19 on Thursday. This is the fifth hotspot area (red zone) in the city that has been sealed by the Nashik Municipal Corporation (NMC) in the past 11 days. The first four being Govind Nagar, Rajlaxmi Lawns on Nashik Road, Anandvalli on Gangapur Road and Nasardi bridge area on Nashik-Pune Road. These 32 high risk contacts include six family members of a Covid-19 positive patient. "The remaining 26 close contacts of the positive patients were traced on Friday during the door-to-door survey carried out by the civic health team. All 32 high risk contacts have now been isolated. A total of 15 are in NMC’s Zakir Hussain hospital, while the remaining 17 are in a private hospital along the Ambad-Satpur link road," a civic health official said. He added that the throat swab samples has been collected and will be sent to Pune’s National Institute of Virology (NIV). After the area was sealed on Thursday evening, the civic body carried out the sanitisation of the entire area on Friday morning. "We have started door-to door survey in Sanjeev Nagar and a total of 1,495 houses have been surveyed, covering a total population of 5,629. The survey is being conducted by 15 teams of health staff," the official said, adding the process will continue on Saturday as well. Apart from Sanjeev Nagar, civic teams also conducted door-to-door survey in other four containment areas. As many as 3,166 houses in these four containment areas were covered by the teams on Friday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/32-high-risk-contacts-traced-in-sanjeev-nagar/articleshow/75211901.cms||Tushar Pawar
April 18, 2020||Kolhapur||Solapur reports another Covid-19 case, total number increases to 13||Kolhapur: The Solapur health department registered another Covid-19 case on Friday, which took the tally of positive cases to 13. On Thursday, Solapur had registered 10 positive cases for coronavirus. When contacted, Solapur district collector Milind Shambharkar told TOI that the person who tested positive for Covid-19 on Friday has a travel history to Mumbai and himself reported at Solapur’s civil hospital on April 15. His throat swab sample, collected before being admitted to the isolation ward, tested positive on Friday. “The Covid-19 patient is not associated with the other 12 patients.,” he said. “He is a resident of Ravivar Peth in Solapur city. The area has been sealed and declared as a containment zone. All the vehicular movement has been stopped and the area is being disinfected,” he said. Shambharkar said the patient’s contact tracing is on and his close contacts will be soon be admitted to the isolation ward of the civil hospital. Meanwhile, ,ore than 150 throat swab sample reports of the close contacts associated with the 12 Covid-19 patients are yet to come. Shambharkar said that as many as 1,593 cases have been registered across Solapur district against people who violated the lockdown rules and 7,499 vehicles confiscated. The vehicles will be returned once the lockdown is lifted. Speaking on shelter camps for migrant workers, he said Solapur district is currently hosting 66 camps, in which 5,356 people have been put up. These migrants are being provided with food while their medical check-up is being done.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolhapur/solapur-reports-another-covid-19-case-total-number-increases-to-13/articleshow/75213222.cms||---
April 18, 2020||Thiruvananthapuram||RBDCK resumes works of Kundanoor flyover||Kochi: The Roads and Bridges Development Corporation of Kerala Ltd. (RBDCK) has resumed construction works of Kundanoor flyover on Friday. RBDCK managing director R Rahul said that around 30 labourers have been engaged at the work site. “As far as Kundanoor flyover is concerned, all major works are over. The remaining works include construction of retaining wall and approach road towards the Aroor side. In fact, the earlier plan was to open the flyover by March. However, these schedules were scuttled by the lockdown,” he said. Tarring works of the flyover as well as relaying of service roads are also pending. The bitumen required for the works has to be brought from other states, and it would be possible only if restrictions on road transportation are lifted. There is also an option to ship the bitumen to Kochi. RBDCK did not rule out the possibility of shortage in supply of raw materials required at construction sites. The road development agency is looking forward to the relaxations in the lockdown, expected to be announced after April 20. They are hopeful that the government will ensure supply of materials like steel and cement. Rahul said that it will take another two weeks for the works to get into full swing. It requires around 200 labourers to bring the work to full swing. Rahul said that their target is to compete the works before June, that is prior to the onset of monsoon. “If we are able to complete the construction of the approach road and retaining wall before monsoon, all it requires is another two rain-free days to complete tarring works,” said Rahul. He said that the labourers live in the neighbourhood. Hence, there is no transport requirement. Meanwhile, RBDCK has also restarted works of Edappal flyover at Malappuram. Earlier, PWD (NH wing) resumed the construction work of Vyttila flyover on April 11. These construction sites can function adhering to the Covid-19 guidelines issued by the health department, which will be monitoring the sites.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/thiruvananthapuram/rbdck-resumes-works-of-kundanoor-flyover/articleshow/75209589.cms||---
April 18, 2020||Nashik||Migrants in camps start rebelling, want to go home||Nashik: Counsellors working in shelter camps across Nashik district said that migrants and workers put up in these places are getting restless and rebelling over small things. The counsellors are visiting all 22 shelters across the district to check on the wellbeing of those staying at the facilities. “It is not that everyone is rebelling, but there are a few people in all of these 22 shelters who are showing such rebellious traits. A few times they refused to eat food till we counselled them,” said psychologist Amol Kulkarni, director of Manovedh Development Foundation, Nashik city. The Manovedh Foundation and Disha Foundation are permitted by Nashik district collector in rural areas and Nashik Municipal Corporation (NMC) in city limits to counsel people, who have been put up in the shelters. A team of 18 members from both organisations is jointly carrying out the exercise in the camps. Most of those put up at these shelters are natives of Uttar Pradesh, Bihar, Madhya Pradesh and Rajasthan. A majority of those staying at the shelters are men, whose families are in other states. There are also some families at the shelters. “Similar traits were seen on and off during the first lockdown period. It has grown sharper after the lockdown was extended. We are tackling them by giving them some plans and participatory activities. There should not be an explosion of sentiments,” Kulkarni said. The counsellors said that at one camp, some youths decided not to have food and thus skipped two meals. At another shelter, they were found to be creating nuisance by disturbing an activity of exercises and mental games was being conducted. “They kept saying that they didn’t want the food or exercise. They said they were ready to walk if the government does not make arrangement for vehicles. They just want the gates of the shelters to be opened. If there is nothing else, then they would express their anger on food quality and timing of the delivery of food to them,” Anjali Borhade, director Disha Foundation, said. In order to tide over the problem, the pyscologists and the counselors as well, are now taking up peer education among the members of the shelters and giving them various tasks. “Since social distancing is must, we cannot make them work together. With nothing to do at their end, the extended lockdown will be a very difficult for them. We have started peer education among them and asking them to come up with ideas that could make others happy. One example is that they members came together and sang songs as part of their gratitude towards the volunteers who provided food for them,” Borhade said. She also drew the attention of the society and the government towards the fact that they need mental support more than the food and clothing. “It is either available through the family or through their work. We will have to see how early they can be taken back to their environment,” Borhade added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/migrants-in-camps-start-rebelling-want-to-go-home/articleshow/75211919.cms||Abhilash Botekar
April 18, 2020||Chennai||Plastic bags creep back into scene||CHENNAI: Banned plastic bags have made a comeback amid lockdown with several vendors starting to use them. Law enforcement officers are looking the other way though it is easier for them to rein in now as it is not the top priority at the moment. At the makeshift vegetable market in Selaiyur in Tambaram municipality, vegetable vendors were seen using plastic bags to pack vegetables for customers who did not bring their own bags. Similar was the sight at several such markets in the city. A Tambaram municipality official said their staff have their hands full on Covid-19 lockdown work but that they have advised vendors to refrain from using plastic bags. “Even restaurants selling packed food through food delivery apps have started giving plastic bags, which never used to be the case before the lockdown,” said S Karthik, a Nanganallur resident. The state government banned use of single-use plastics from January 1, 2019. According to the city corporation, civic body officials have seized 3.16 lakh kilograms of banned plastic items and raided more than 4.4 lakh vendors and traders until March this year. The fine amount collected is about Rs 1.27 crore. Though the ban was in effect from January last year, the civic body began penalising establishments only from June 2019. A member of the Tamil Nadu Plastic Manufacturers Association said plastic bags are still in use by small-time vendors and roadside stalls. “While some are manufactured stealthily and sold at higher rates, plastic bags are still coming into the state from neighbouring states,” the member said. When asked, a Greater Chennai Corporation official said usage of plastic bags by small-time vendors used to be the case even before the lockdown and that the civic body was expecting it to be slowly phased out. “At present, the focus is on ensuring physical distancing at the market. We have shut down entire markets and meat stalls if physical distancing is not followed,” the official added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/plastic-bags-creep-back-into-scene/articleshow/75211928.cms||---
April 18, 2020||Delhi||Delhi: No hike, only monthly tuition fee||NEW DELHI: The parents of children studying in Delhi’s private schools heaved a sigh of relief on Friday with education minister Manish Sisodia ordering these institutions to charge only monthly, not quarterly, fees during the Covid-19 lockdown period. The schools have also been instructed to charge only the tuition fees at the previous rate without any increase. “As per the Delhi School Education Act and the Disaster Management Act (DMA) that is in place now, the private schools will have to abide by the order. Action will be taken against any school violating the order,” said Sisodia, who is also the deputy chief minister. Under DMA, a violation is punishable by a jail term up to one year or a fine. The order follows several complaints from parents that many schools are sending increased bills, with some even barring students from online classes over non-payment of dues. As TOI reported on Thursday, Apeejay Schools has already received a similar order. No school can now charge other components like annual charges and transportation fees. According to the directorate of education (DoE), the expenditure on co-curricular, sports and other development-related activities is almost nil during the lockdown and the tuition fees are enough to pay salaries. “No school, whether it is built on government or private land, will increase the fees without approval from the education department,” Sisodia pointed out. There’s good news for the teaching and non-teaching staff, too, as the schools have been asked to pay their salaries regularly. During the lockdown, some private schools are reportedly paying 40-50% less than the total emolument. “If any school has a fund issue, it should take the money from its parent organisation,” Sisodia said. Many schools claimed they had already given the monthly-fee relaxation. “In view of the lockdown, we have already given the relaxation to the parents and uploaded the same on the school’s website,” said Tania Joshi, principal of The Indian School. The Action Committee, a consortium of over 1,000 private schools, however, requested the government to rethink its decision on the annual charges. “Entire tuition fees are used by the schools for meeting establishment charges. Schools cannot exempt payment of annual charges, which are used to meet other expenses. But schools are prepared to take annual charges in easy instalments,” said S K Bhattacharya, president of the committee. It has also demanded the outstanding dues towards EWS/DG students from the government. Shishir Jaipuria, co-chairman of Ficci Alliance for Re-Imagining School Education, demanded some measures for private schools as there had practically been no fee increase in Delhi for the past five years and the schools were being forced to pay the 7th pay commission salaries.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/no-hike-only-monthly-tuition-fee/articleshow/75212856.cms||Shradha Chettri
April 18, 2020||Hyderabad||Give special package to Old City: Majlis Bachao Tehreek||HYDERABAD: The Majlis Bachao Tehreek (MBT) has demanded that the state government announce a special package to provide essential commodities to Old City residents. “The lockdown in Old City will be successful only if Telangana government provides door-to-door supply of essentials. This can help control the rise of positive cases and deaths,’’ said, Amjed Ullah Khan, spokesman, MBT. Khan also said that there was no proper sweeping and collection of garbage in Old city areas. MBT stressed that as per Ministry of Health orders, residents inside cluster zone should be supplied commodities free of cost.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/give-spl-package-to-old-city-mbt/articleshow/75210993.cms||---
April 18, 2020||Jaipur||Rajasthan: Forest department looking after abandoned leopard cub||JAIPUR: Amidst lockdown due to the pandemic, the forest department has been continuously working to keep the wildlife safe. A video (of a forest trap camera ) showing a leopard taking care of her three cubs in an abandoned building in Rajsamand has been doing the rounds on social media. According to the forest officials, while the big cat took two of her cubs to another location few days back, the third one is still left behind in the building. They have been monitoring it and ensuring that the cub remains hale and hearty while it waits for its mother’s return. A guard has been designated to feed milk to the cub at pre-decided hours. Deputy conservator of forests (DCF) Fateh Singh ensures that the guard wears personal protective equipment (PPE) before walking inside the abandoned house in Tantol village in Nathdwara, where a leopardess had given birth to three cubs last week. “The leopardess made her base in the building at the time of giving birth. Out of the three cubs, the mother shifted two of them on April 13 and 14. As the mother did not come to take her third cub, we have started giving the feed for past couple of days to keep the cub alive. Following the recent Covid -19 protocol, it has been ensured that the guard wears the PPE gear,” said Singh According to officials, the cub is given 50ml goat milk mixed with boiled water twice a day ( 9am and 4pm). To prevent the spread of the disease among big cats owing to the zoonotic nature of Covid-19, the National Tiger Conservation Authority (NTCA) had issued guidelines recently. Although the directions were for tigers, precaution is being taken to deal with all big cats. Elaborating further, a forest guard said, “The kit is being worn for two reasons. One is due to the recent NTCA guidelines, and secondly, it will prevent human smell in the house. The leopardess could abandon its cub if it smells humans near it.” The forest department continues to express confidence that the leopardess will return. To keep a vigil, a guard has been deployed and trap cameras have been installed. “We are seeking advice from the experts and veterinary doctors. There have been instances where abandoned cubs are taken even after 10 days,” said the official.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/forest-dept-looking-after-abandoned-leopard-cub/articleshow/75211915.cms||---
April 18, 2020||Hubballi||Karnataka:Nod to infrastructure development projects after April 20, says Jagadish Shettar||DHARWAD: Conditional permission will be granted for the construction of buildings, roads, bridges and other such work after April 20 to ensure that workers are not deprived of their daily earnings, said large and medium scale industries minister Jagadish Shettar on Friday. The contractors who have bagged tender for these projects should set up camps for the labourers and provide lodging and food facilities to them. The workforce will not be allowed to travel to their native places every day, he said at a meeting with officials. “However, no such work should be taken up in containment areas,” he said. The development projects stalled since the past one month can be restarted only after permission and it is the responsibility of contractors to ensure the safety of labourers, he said. “Developmental works in rural areas too can continue hassle-free and priority should be given to drinking water projects without violating the lockdown orders,” he said. Shettar, who is also in charge of Dharwad district, said relaxation will also be given to plumbers and mechanics. Dharwad deputy commissioner Deepa Cholan said that under the NDRF, 436 migrant labourers are being provided shelter and food facility at various hostels in the district. For the brick kiln workers, 3,000 food packets have been delivered so far.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hubballi/nod-to-infra-development-projects-after-april-20-shettar/articleshow/75204001.cms||---
April 18, 2020||Delhi||Rs 1k fine for spitting at public places in Delhi||NEW DELHI: All civic bodies of Delhi, including the three corporations and New Delhi Municipal Council, have banned spitting and urinating in public spaces with immediate effect. The fine, which is imposed on people found engaged in these activities, has been increased by ten times. A senior South Delhi Municipal Corporation official said that a violator will now have to pay a fine of Rs 1,000. “Earlier, the deliberative wing was planning to hike the fine to Rs 2,000, but it was considered too steep an increase. We may revise the fine amount if needed,” the official added. The step has been taken to serve as deterrent against public insanitation which may contribute to further spread of novel coronavirus. To create a new infrastructure for levying these hiked fines, the municipal bodies have delegated the powers — usually conferred upon the commissioners — to impose and collect the fines to all licensing inspectors, public heath inspector, sanitary and assistant sanitary inspectors and malaria and assistant malaria inspectors. “The violators will be challaned on the spot and fine will be collected on the spot. In case the violator does not have money to pay the fine, then the municipal officer will obtain his/her proper address. The officer can check his/her identity cards, such as driving licence and Aadhar card, for it,” a senior SDMC official said. In case, the violators do not have any identity card, their photo will be taken on a mobile phone, along with their address details. “The fine will be recovered under section 455 of the DMC Act,” a senior official from east DMC said. The move has come in the wake of the ministry of home affairs issuing fresh directives for Covid-19 management. Under the revised guidelines, spitting has been made punishable with a fine under Section 51 (b) of the Disaster Management Act. The directive 5 of the guidelines states that spitting in public places will be punishable with fine, while the directive 6 states that there will be strict ban on sale of gutkha, tobacco, and spitting should be prohibited. The new fines may remain in effect even after the lockdown.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/rs-1k-fine-for-spitting-in-public-areas/articleshow/75227539.cms||Paras Singh
April 18, 2020||Hyderabad||Salons shut, twitterati let down hair; Kavitha Kalvakuntla teases brother K T Rama Rao||HYDERABAD: The extension of the lockdown till May 3 has landed men of the city in an unlikely predicament, with many unable to step out for a haircut. On Thursday, Twitterati discussed the issue,thanks to a request by one Sharath Chandra who tweeted to IT and municipal administration minister K T Rama Rao. @KTRTRS Sir a sincere query: Any thoughts on opening barber shops or salons post 20 Apr? My wife is eager to try he… https://t.co/yez9TIKEhk— sharath chandra (@sharath1390) 1587051370000KTR’s sister and former MP of Nizamabad Kavitha Kalvakuntla also joined the discussion. Sharath Chandra said: “A sincere query. Any thoughts on opening barber shops or salons post April 20? My wife is eager to try her hand on haircut and if that happens I have a strong feeling I’ll need to stay home even after the lockdown is lifted.” Hey, when Virat Kohli could let his wife style his hair, why don’t you 😀 https://t.co/lSnS5WKZ6F— KTR (@KTRTRS) 1587052231000KTR responded by citing Indian cricket captain Virat Kohli, who recently put up a video of his wife and actor Anushka Sharma giving him a haircut. KTR tweeted: “Hey, when Virat Kohli could let his wife style his hair, why don’t you?” Sharath Chandra responded by saying, “That’s her argument as well sir! Anyway, how are you managing this, any tips?” Annayya .. Bhabi ki kuda chance isthunnava ?! 😍😀 https://t.co/Qd8HcujJx9— Kavitha Kalvakuntla (@RaoKavitha) 1587095733000 Kavitha retweeted her brother’s response on Friday and said: “Annayya…Bhabi ki kuda chance isthunnava!? (Brother... Are you giving sister-in-law a chance to style your hair?).  However, in some villages, barbers are stealthily giving haircuts in the backyards of some houses so as to not attract the attention of the police. Nearly 15 men and children of Chinthakuntathanda village in Nirmal district found a barber and got their heads shaved, believing that it will stop the spread of coronavirus.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/salons-shut-twitterati-let-down-hair-kavitha-teases-bro-ktr/articleshow/75211012.cms||Ch Sushil Rao
April 18, 2020||Jaipur||Admn mulls employment for workers stuck in city||Jaipur: The administration of Jaipur sub-division is planning to engage the migrant workers staying in the shelter homes in some kind of employment so that they could earn something before they leave for their home states. They will be engaging them in construction work, stitching masks and as assistants in sweets manufacturing units and other works.Currently, there are 770 migrant labourers staying in 9 shelter homes in Jaipur division."I am trying to materialise a plan to engage the migrant workers in some works. They can earn some money by doing this. I have got it identified by the officers the kind of works they used to do earlier or the physical labour they have expertise in. So, we are trying to utilise their services based on their past experience or previous occupation," said Jaipur SDM Yugantar Sharma said."If somebody is educated he/she could be engaged in teaching of small children. I can also use their services in making envelopes, masks or bags made of cloth," he added.Sharma further said, "The identification of the workers has been completed based on their previous occupation. Most of them were construction workers. So, two-three builders are ready to provide them work. They will also provide them food and lodging. But, for that I need permission from the state government. If the government announces further relaxations after April 20, I can execute this,"He also said around 10-15 people who have expertise in stitching could be engaged in making masks. "Those who have expertise in preparing sweets will be engaged in sweets manufacturing units," he added.To keep hundreds of migrant labourers housed in several shelter homes in Jaipur sub-division healthy, fit and upbeat, the block administration had earlier started special yoga and physical training classes for To make them feel at home, fun singing sessions were also organised at these shelter homes.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/admn-mulls-employment-for-workers-stuck-in-city/articleshow/75211924.cms||Sidhartha Dutta
April 18, 2020||Jaipur||Workers can now dial for NREGA work: Pilot||Jaipur: Deputy chief minister Sachin Pilot on Friday directed that people should be given work under MGNREGA even if the demand for it is placed over telephone, through call centres or other means, instead of only mandating Form-6 for the same. He also directed the chief executive officers of Zila Parishad to prepare a roadmap by Monday in order to identify and accelerate the works under various schemes of department after April 20, when modified lockdown comes into effect in the state.In another development, Pilot said that sarpanch will be included as a guide in the inter-departmental core group formed under the Disaster Management Act at the gram panchayat level. He also said the services of women working under self-help groups of Rajeevika should be utilised to make 1.5 lakh masks a day. He said a plan of action with regard to this should be prepared at the district level. MGNREGA commissioner P C Kishan said the provision to demand for work through a telephone or a call centre or a website was already there in the Act but was not in use. "Earlier, form-6 was more in use and people didn't ask for work telephonically or through any other means. So, now it will be used," he said. Also, the the wages under NREGA have been revised to Rs 220 per day from April 1.Pilot said this during a video conference with officials of rural development and panchayati raj department and CEOs of zila parishad on Friday. Pilot also asked them to identify the pending work under various schemes of department, which include PMAY, building ponds and prepare a plan of action in three days. Pilot said over Rs 1,124 crore is available with gram panchayats for schemes and can be used in a time-bound manner. He also expressed dismay over number of working labourers going down from 20 lakh in April 2019-20 to just 1.4 lakh labourers in April 2020-21.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/workers-can-now-dial-for-nrega-work-pilot/articleshow/75211934.cms||---
April 18, 2020||Jaipur||Air educational content on DD, AIR: Min to Centre||Jaipur: State education minister Govind Singh Dotasra has urged Union minister for information and broadcasting Prakash Javadekar to provide free slot on DD Rajasthan channel and All India Radio Vividh Bharti Jaipur, to air education-related programmes for state’s students, on Friday. He has shot a letter to Javadekar explaining that in the lockdown period, every state is heading for online education on mobile phones and desktop computers or laptops. “In Rajasthan, lakhs of families don’t have smart phones, which makes it impossible for them to access any online education material. The solution to this problem is education-related content on DD and AIR, which is easily accessible to these families,” said Dotasra. In the letter, the minister also informed about the measures taken by them, like online classes and uploading of material on its website. TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/air-educational-content-on-dd-air-min-to-centre/articleshow/75211942.cms||---
April 18, 2020||Surat||Leopard preying on poultry birds caged in Valsad village||Surat: Forest department on Friday caged a female leopard that used to prey on poultry farm birds in Charvad village of Valsad district. According to forest officials, they had placed a cage on a farm after they received a complaint from farm owner Deepak Patel.“We caged the leopard on Friday morning and we will release it into the wild after inserting an electronic tracking chip into her skin. The female leopard is two-and-a-half-year-old,” said Yuvrajsinh Zala, assistant conservator of forests in Dharampur, Valsad North Forest Division. Charvad village is located about 12 km from Valsad town in South Gujarat. Earlier, in the first week of April, at least nine goats were killed by a leopard in Kosamba village of Valsad district.According to 2016 leopard count in the state, there were 18 leopards in Valsad district, while it population in the state was 1,395.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/leopard-preying-on-poultry-birds-caged-in-valsad-village/articleshow/75209313.cms||---
April 18, 2020||Jaipur||Rajasthan CM vows to solve migrant labourer problem soon||JAIPUR: Chief minister Ashok Gehlot on Friday said the state government was serious about the issue of migrant labourers and had taken up the matter with Prime Minister Narendra Modi. He expressed hope that a solution would soon be found. Gehlot said the state was also in talks with other chief ministers over the welfare of Rajasthani workers stranded in other states. The chief minister was holding a review meeting with his cabinet colleagues, secretaries and district collectors on the implementation of the modified lockdown. Gehlot said the people of Rajasthan, administration and government had proved that they stand united in this hour of crisis and the state had the capacity to overcome this crisis. He said long time stay at home and shut down of industrial activities posed serious problems to people. He said it was necessary to keep up their morale by motivational programmes. He asked officials to involve, teachers, sociologists and experts to launch awareness and motivational campaigns through videos and writeups. He added that it was necessary to boost the confidence of corona warriors. The chief minister said in order to meet the demand of water in summer, contingency plans were already in place. He said Rs 65 crore had been sanctioned for this purpose. Gopalan minister Pramod Jain Bhaiya informed that Rs 275 crore had been granted for goshalas. Food minister Ramesh Meena said wheat under NFSA had been lifted and distributed in record time. Cooperatives minister Udailal Anjana said Rabi crops procurement was progressing well. Higher education minister Bhanwar Singh Bhati said under work from home, college students are being connected by online programmes by universities. Chief secretary D B Gupta directed officials of the respective departments to prepare in advance for the modified lockdown from April 20.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/cm-vows-to-solve-migrant-labourer-problem-soon/articleshow/75211953.cms||---
April 18, 2020||Chennai||Not the end in Tamil Nadu: Those booked and ‘let off’ could face trials||CHENNAI: The two lakh lockdown violation cases registered across Tamil Nadu are not just numbers, neither are they petty traffic offences which end with payment of penalty. Many may not have noticed, but police have been giving details of how the two lakh-odd people have been ‘arrested’ but let on ‘bail.’ The cases will impact lives and careers of the violators if the government chooses to take them to logical conclusions. All the cases are registered for offences punishable under Section 188 (disobedience to order duly promulgated by public servant) and 269 (negligent act likely to spread infection of disease dangerous to life) of the Indian Penal Code (IPC). These clauses carry maximum punishment of imprisonment upto six months or Rs 1,000 fine, or both. While offences under the Motor Vehicles Act can be closed after collecting the appropriate penalty from the offender, the IPC is a penal law triable before a court of law. Now, that more than 2 lakh FIRs have been generated, there are only two options before officials — they should file chargesheet in all cases and conduct trial before a court or the state government can withdraw all cases by passing a government order (GO). The trial courts where the FIRs have been lodged by police have to apply their mind and allow withdrawal of the cases. It is a process that can be questioned in a higher judicial forum. “The reason behind booking people for violation of lockdown is to ensure they remain indoors. The state has no intention to harass the public. Therefore, though the cases are registered under the IPC, chances are high that the state would close the cases by passing a GO,” A Natarajan, state public prosecutor, told TOI. Expressing similar view former city public prosecutor M Shahjahan said: “Facing the trial before a court depends on the final report filed by the investigating officer. Such officers have power to close a case if they conclude that no offence is made out. It is not necessary that all the cases registered for lockdown violation should end up in a trial. The government can pass a GO and close all the cases in one go.” As far as Chennai is concerned, the city police have booked about 35,000 cases and seized at least 25,000 vehicles from March 24 to April 16. Asked about police intentions behind the cases, a senior officer said: “We are waiting for the higher officers’ response on this. As of now, we have been asked to return 10 vehicles a day to prevent crowding at police stations.” “If needed, we will file chargesheets against the violators before the jurisdictional courts after a while. If done, the violators must appear before the court to conclude the case. Given the high number of cases, they may all be referred to Lok Adalats also for disposal,” another officer said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/not-the-end-those-booked-and-let-off-could-face-trials/articleshow/75211952.cms||A Selvaraj
April 18, 2020||Bhopal||Bhopal: Residents irked over ‘only barricades, no essential service’ in containment zones||BHOPAL: To plug the spread of Covid-19, the administration has declared 119 containment zones in the city so far. Till Thursday, Bhopal had 175 Coronavirus positive cases and 119 containment areas. More than four lakh people in the city are living in these containment areas, which are completely sealed and barricaded. An area is declared a “containment zone” to see that the infection does not spread among the people living in the vicinity of “epicentre”. The administration also makes sure that people living in the containment zones are supplied with essential items like vegetables, milk etc. But, talking to some people in 10 areas, which have been declared as containment zones, it appears that the police and administration erected the barricades but other vital functions prescribed in the protocol for the area and residents of the area were not attended properly. “After sanitisation and screening in the initial two days, the only thing that the administration has done is to barricade the area. My colony was declared a “containment area” all of a sudden. When administration expects us to remain in the home, they should make compulsory provisions for us”, said Tapas Bhattacharya, resident of a colony in the Kolar area, which has been declared a containment zone. “We had ordered a tanker to fetch water but they refused to come because it is a “containment area”. The supply of milk is erratic. Loading autos of BMC are taking vegetables everywhere for sale but containment areas. You order something from a supermarket, they refuse to take order. In fact, you have no option. District administration promises, at least I have read in newspapers, that they would take care of everything but they don’t do anything excepting for barricading the area so that people don’t go out”, he said angrily. A retired professor from a colony in Avadhpuri, which is also under containment area restriction, said “ Barricading is a coercive action to stop people from moving out or coming into the restricted area, if people don’t do voluntarily, it would not be required but unfortunately, all the emphasis of the administration and the police is on barricading the area. If they help people get essentials they need, they would serve the case of containment better.” The spokesperson for district administration, Arun Rathore, however, maintained, “If residents of any containment area have problems getting essentials goods like medicine, milk or vegetable or grocery and if their order for home delivery is not being taken because nobody wants to go to a containment area to fetch the order, they should lodge a complaint with helpline no. 104 or 181. Supply would be ensured by the district administration.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/residents-irked-over-only-barricades-no-essential-service-in-containment-zones/articleshow/75211046.cms||Ashutosh Shukla
April 18, 2020||Bhubaneswar||‘Taking steps to ensure flow of eggs, meat, fish, milk to markets’||Bhubaneswar: Fisheries and animal resources development minister Arun Kumar Sahoo on Friday asked the chief district veterinary officers (CDVOs) to ensure the smooth functioning of veterinary hospitals, dispensaries and livestock aid centres in their districts during the lockdown period. Sahoo said this after reviewing the issues related to field offices with CDVOs through video-conferencing. “We are taking the necessary measures to bring the fisheries and animal resources sector back to normalcy. The steps taken by our department will yield result and make the flow of eggs, meat, fish and milk products to markets smooth.” “The veterinary hospitals, dispensaries, livestock aid centres and mobile animal treatment facilities will work on the vaccination of cattle and other domestic animals. Artificial insemination programme will continue in full swing after the smooth functioning of these treatment facilities,” said a senior officer of the fisheries and animal resources development (FARD) department. Sahoo also asked officers of his department not to leave their subdivision as the offices across the state will remain opened during the lockdown. “The officers will try to solve the problems faced by farmers in the fields. All these works should be done by following social distancing norms,” he added. Fisheries officials have been directed to help farmers in getting government help. “It is the time to catch fishes from ponds, farms and other water bodies. This work will continue like before to meet the demand of people. Fish farming and rearing of animals are the major sources of income for people in the rural areas. They should get support to resume their work,” said a senior officer of the FARD department. The department sources said feeds for cattle, chicken and fish should be produced and sold in the market like before. Production, supply, procurement and selling of fishes will continue. Ice factories will also function to supply ice to fish godowns.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhubaneswar/taking-steps-to-ensure-flow-of-eggs-meat-fish-milk-to-markets/articleshow/75207870.cms||Hemanta Pradhan
April 18, 2020||Bhubaneswar||Departments classified as critical, partially||Bhubaneswar: The state general administration department on Friday issued a fresh circular on the functioning of various state government departments during the lockdown period, extended until May 3, by classifying them into two categories — critical and partially-critical. Earlier, the departments were clarified into three categories critical, partially-critical and non-critical. The departments categorised as critical include agriculture, co-operation, fisheries, food supplies and consumer welfare, general administration and public grievances, housing and urban development, health and family welfare, home, labour, panchayati raj and revenue and disaster management. All other departments are now classified as partially-critical according to the fresh order, which would come into effect from April 20. In the 11 departments falling under the critical category, all the Group-A officers will attend office, while up to 50% of the Group B, C and D will attend office on roster basis. In the partially-critical departments, all the Group-A officers will attend office, while up to 33% officers from Group B, C and D would attend on roster basis. The administrative heads of the critical and partially-critical departments have been authorised to take a call on the scale of operations. . “All the employees of the state government, who are not attending office because of the lockdown restrictions, will work from home according to the fresh order,” said an official. Employees of the departments, which were identified as non-critical, have been advised not to attend office.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhubaneswar/depts-classified-as-critical-partially-so/articleshow/75207859.cms||---
April 18, 2020||Nashik||Malegaon police intercept truck carrying 47 workers||Nashik: A truck carrying 47 migrant workers was intercepted by Malegaon police at Manmad junction check point late on Thursday.According to police, the workers were headed to Rajasthan from Pune. "All the workers got into the truck between Pune and Shirdi before getting caught in Malegaon," a police officer said.Police inspector Bhausaheb Patare said, the truck driver has been arrested, but the cleaner managed to escape. "The migrant workers have been moved to a shelter home at Chalisgaon Phata in Malegaon," he said."We had set up a check point at Manmad junction to curb unnecessary movement of vehicles from the area. During the wee hours of Thursday a truck was stopped there. While inquiring with the driver, we got suspicious and decided to check the vehicle," he added.Upon checking, police found that 47 migrant workers were inside the truck. "The workers had started from Pune on foot for reaching their homes in Rajasthan. On their way they met the truck driver who took money from them and promised to drop them till Chopda in Jalgaon district," Patare said.The workers were jobless due to the lockdown and were finding it difficult to make their ends meet. "The throat swab samples of the workers have been collected for tests after they were moved to the shelter home. The driver of the vehicle has been arrested under relevant sections of the Indian Penal Code," Patare said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/malegaon-police-intercept-truck-carrying-47-workers/articleshow/75211946.cms||Santosh Sonawane
April 18, 2020||Rajkot||Stones pelted at cops in Patan||Palanpur: A day after Siddhpur police station inspector was attacked inside the police station, a mob of around 60-70 persons launched an assault on cops in Patan town’s Mira Park and Mira Darwaza areas over enforcement of lockdown on Friday evening.The mob resorted to heavy stone pelting in which police inspector Chirag Gosai of B-division police station suffered head injuries. Patan superintendent of police (SP) Akshayraj Makwana said additional reinforcement was called and police teams carried out house-to-house searches to nab the attackers. Some dozen people who had escaped into the narrow bylanes have been arrested, he said.“There have been attacks on cops home guards, volunteers of gram rakshak dal in the last three to four days. We will take stringent action against the miscreants,” Makwana added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/stones-pelted-at-cops-in-patan/articleshow/75209387.cms||---
April 18, 2020||Thiruvananthapuram||Panel to report on functioning of edu sector||Thiruvananthapuram: A day after AICTE informed technical institutions and universities about its plans to revise, in association with UGC, the academic calendar of higher education institutions for smooth resumption of academic activities in the post-lockdown period, state government on Thursday appointed a six-member committee to submit a report on how to tackle the lockdown-induced crisis in higher education sector. Planning board member and Kerala University former vice-chancellor Dr B Ekbal heads the committee that would meet over online platforms to take stock of the current situation and discuss the way ahead. State higher education department has given a week to the committee to submit a report on how the universities in the state could overcome the impact of the lockdown as examinations and classes remain suspended. Sources close to the development say the higher education circles, especially those in closer proximity to political leadership, have been mooting the idea of downsizing the syllabus, particularly for technical courses, as a smooth way to address the loss of academic days to the pandemic. Such ideas, however, have not gone down well with disciplinarians. “Since AICTE and UGC have decided to work out a national policy on rearranging the academic calendar and are even contemplating to make changes in the awarding of marks and other examination related criteria, there is little the state government could do with regard to examination and evaluation,” sources in higher education sector said. Vrinda V Nair, dean (research), APJ Abdul Kalam Technological University ,is the convener of the committee. M G University VC Sabu Thomas is another prominent member. “When the examinations are to be conducted next and when the classes are to be started are all hypothetical questions to which nobody would be able to answer now. But we can have a clear understanding about the current position of academic activities and evolve a perception on how to go approach the post-lockdown period. We would be considering the options to reduce the impact of emergency situations on academic activities. The suggestions can be both supplementary and complementary of UGC/AICTE guidelines,” she said. The lockdown has opened new opportunities to try out new technology-based models for academic transactions, said Vrinda. Almost all universities are conducting online classes, mostly by using the technical support and platform provided by Additional Skill Acquisition Programme, under higher education department.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/thiruvananthapuram/panel-to-report-on-functioning-of-edu-sector/articleshow/75209402.cms||B S Anilkumar
April 18, 2020||Delhi||Removal of uterus to save life not medical negligence, rules panel||NEW DELHI: In a landmark judgment, the National Consumer Disputes Redressal Commission (NCDRC) – the apex body of consumer disputes redressal in the country – has held that if hysterectomy is done to save the life of a patient, then it is not medical negligence and denied compensation to a woman who said removal of uterus had deprived her of becoming a mother again. In 2002, a woman’ uterus was removed post childbirth owing to her medical complications. She moved NCDRC seeking Rs 35 lakh compensation from the doctors who performed the surgery on the ground that she had been deprived of becoming a mother in future. A bench of Dr S M Kanitkar and Dinesh Singh noted both the mother and child then born were leading a normal life. “We do not find any deficiency/negligence in removal of uterus, as it was essential in that condition to save the life of the patient – mother,” the bench said. The commission further stated that as the patient’s ovaries had been left intact, she hadn’t lost the her chance to have another child totally as it was possible through advanced medical techniques like assisted reproductive technology or surrogacy. In her complaint, the woman alleged that the consent of her family members was not obtained by the doctors before the removal of her uterus. It was also claimed that her attendants were humiliated by the doctors and their staff.  The doctors, on the other hand, denied any deficiency or negligence on their part. As per their claims, they had conducted a normal delivery and a healthy child was born. During the procedure of suturing, the woman’s condition deteriorated. Despite their efforts to stop uterine bleeding, the doctors were unable to control it. By then the woman’s condition had turned serious. Her life had to be saved at any cost, the doctors said. “Therefore, the emergency hysterectomy was performed. It was not a medical negligence,” it was submitted. The commission found the complaint to be “frivolous and vexatious”. It said, “We are, however, refraining from imposing cost.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/removal-of-uterus-to-save-life-not-medical-negligence-rules-panel/articleshow/75212879.cms||Aamir Khan
April 18, 2020||Udaipur||Death toll 17; new cases 98, total infections in Rajasthan 1,229||JAIPUR: The state government on Friday said coronavirus claimed two more lives and confirmed that two others who had died on Wednesday were also infected, taking the death toll to 17. Of the four, three were from Jaipur. The state also saw 98 fresh cases, which included 92 from various districts and six evacuees from Iran. As on Friday, the total number of positive cases stood at 1,229. According to health department officials, a 56-year-old man, who tested positive on Wednesday, died at MDM Hospital in Jodhpur on Friday. Similarly, a 22-year-old youth, who tested positive on Thursday, died at SMS Hospital here. “He was admitted on March 14 and had undergone a surgery of the intestine. He tested positive later. He was a resident of Ghat Gate in Ramganj locality of Jaipur,” said an official. Officials said two more 65-year-old persons, one from Shastri Nagar here and another from Ramganj who died on Wednesday, had also tested positive. With these four deaths, the number of those who died of the virus has gone up to 17. These include eight from Jaipur; two each from Bhilwara, Kota and Jodhpur and one each from Alwar, Tonk and Kota. Of the 98 cases on Friday, 38 were reported from Jodhpur, 22 from Tonk, nine from Ajmer, eight from Jaipur, six cases each from Nagaur and Kota and one each from Jhalawar, Jhunjhunu and Ajmer. Also, six evacuees from Iran were also found infected. Out of the eight cases in Jaipur, 2 came from KGB ka Raasta (Walled city) and one each from Mansarover, Vaishali Nagar, Jamwaramgarh (Rural Jaipur), Nahari Ka Naka, MD Road and Gangapole areas of the city. “Cases came from areas like Vaishali Nagar and Jamwaramgarh. Authorities have been intimated to start the containmnent process in a 2.5-km diameter from where these cases were reported,” said a senior officer of health department. So far, Rajasthan has tested 42,847 samples out of which 36,153 were negative and 5,465 are under process. “We managed to cure 183 people out of which 93 have been discharged from the hospital,” said Rohit Kumar Singh, additional chief secretary (health). Officials, however, refrained from commenting on the reasons why there was a sudden drop in the positive cases from Jaipur in the last three days.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/udaipur/death-toll-17-new-cases-98-total-infections-in-raj-1229/articleshow/75218445.cms||Ashish Mehta
April 18, 2020||Ajmer||Death toll 17; new cases 98, total infections in Rajasthan 1,229||JAIPUR: The state government on Friday said coronavirus claimed two more lives and confirmed that two others who had died on Wednesday were also infected, taking the death toll to 17. Of the four, three were from Jaipur. The state also saw 98 fresh cases, which included 92 from various districts and six evacuees from Iran. As on Friday, the total number of positive cases stood at 1,229. According to health department officials, a 56-year-old man, who tested positive on Wednesday, died at MDM Hospital in Jodhpur on Friday. Similarly, a 22-year-old youth, who tested positive on Thursday, died at SMS Hospital here. “He was admitted on March 14 and had undergone a surgery of the intestine. He tested positive later. He was a resident of Ghat Gate in Ramganj locality of Jaipur,” said an official. Officials said two more 65-year-old persons, one from Shastri Nagar here and another from Ramganj who died on Wednesday, had also tested positive. With these four deaths, the number of those who died of the virus has gone up to 17. These include eight from Jaipur; two each from Bhilwara, Kota and Jodhpur and one each from Alwar, Tonk and Kota. Of the 98 cases on Friday, 38 were reported from Jodhpur, 22 from Tonk, nine from Ajmer, eight from Jaipur, six cases each from Nagaur and Kota and one each from Jhalawar, Jhunjhunu and Ajmer. Also, six evacuees from Iran were also found infected. Out of the eight cases in Jaipur, 2 came from KGB ka Raasta (Walled city) and one each from Mansarover, Vaishali Nagar, Jamwaramgarh (Rural Jaipur), Nahari Ka Naka, MD Road and Gangapole areas of the city. “Cases came from areas like Vaishali Nagar and Jamwaramgarh. Authorities have been intimated to start the containmnent process in a 2.5-km diameter from where these cases were reported,” said a senior officer of health department. So far, Rajasthan has tested 42,847 samples out of which 36,153 were negative and 5,465 are under process. “We managed to cure 183 people out of which 93 have been discharged from the hospital,” said Rohit Kumar Singh, additional chief secretary (health). Officials, however, refrained from commenting on the reasons why there was a sudden drop in the positive cases from Jaipur in the last three days.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ajmer/death-toll-17-new-cases-98-total-infections-in-raj-1229/articleshow/75218446.cms||Ashish Mehta
April 18, 2020||Jaipur||Death toll 17; new cases 98, total infections in Rajasthan 1,229||JAIPUR: The state government on Friday said coronavirus claimed two more lives and confirmed that two others who had died on Wednesday were also infected, taking the death toll to 17. Of the four, three were from Jaipur. The state also saw 98 fresh cases, which included 92 from various districts and six evacuees from Iran. As on Friday, the total number of positive cases stood at 1,229. According to health department officials, a 56-year-old man, who tested positive on Wednesday, died at MDM Hospital in Jodhpur on Friday. Similarly, a 22-year-old youth, who tested positive on Thursday, died at SMS Hospital here. “He was admitted on March 14 and had undergone a surgery of the intestine. He tested positive later. He was a resident of Ghat Gate in Ramganj locality of Jaipur,” said an official. Officials said two more 65-year-old persons, one from Shastri Nagar here and another from Ramganj who died on Wednesday, had also tested positive. With these four deaths, the number of those who died of the virus has gone up to 17. These include eight from Jaipur; two each from Bhilwara, Kota and Jodhpur and one each from Alwar, Tonk and Kota. Of the 98 cases on Friday, 38 were reported from Jodhpur, 22 from Tonk, nine from Ajmer, eight from Jaipur, six cases each from Nagaur and Kota and one each from Jhalawar, Jhunjhunu and Ajmer. Also, six evacuees from Iran were also found infected. Out of the eight cases in Jaipur, 2 came from KGB ka Raasta (Walled city) and one each from Mansarover, Vaishali Nagar, Jamwaramgarh (Rural Jaipur), Nahari Ka Naka, MD Road and Gangapole areas of the city. “Cases came from areas like Vaishali Nagar and Jamwaramgarh. Authorities have been intimated to start the containmnent process in a 2.5-km diameter from where these cases were reported,” said a senior officer of health department. So far, Rajasthan has tested 42,847 samples out of which 36,153 were negative and 5,465 are under process. “We managed to cure 183 people out of which 93 have been discharged from the hospital,” said Rohit Kumar Singh, additional chief secretary (health). Officials, however, refrained from commenting on the reasons why there was a sudden drop in the positive cases from Jaipur in the last three days.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/death-toll-17-new-cases-98-total-infections-in-raj-1229/articleshow/75211958.cms||Ashish Mehta
April 18, 2020||Jodhpur||Death toll 17; new cases 98, total infections in Rajasthan 1,229||JAIPUR: The state government on Friday said coronavirus claimed two more lives and confirmed that two others who had died on Wednesday were also infected, taking the death toll to 17. Of the four, three were from Jaipur. The state also saw 98 fresh cases, which included 92 from various districts and six evacuees from Iran. As on Friday, the total number of positive cases stood at 1,229. According to health department officials, a 56-year-old man, who tested positive on Wednesday, died at MDM Hospital in Jodhpur on Friday. Similarly, a 22-year-old youth, who tested positive on Thursday, died at SMS Hospital here. “He was admitted on March 14 and had undergone a surgery of the intestine. He tested positive later. He was a resident of Ghat Gate in Ramganj locality of Jaipur,” said an official. Officials said two more 65-year-old persons, one from Shastri Nagar here and another from Ramganj who died on Wednesday, had also tested positive. With these four deaths, the number of those who died of the virus has gone up to 17. These include eight from Jaipur; two each from Bhilwara, Kota and Jodhpur and one each from Alwar, Tonk and Kota. Of the 98 cases on Friday, 38 were reported from Jodhpur, 22 from Tonk, nine from Ajmer, eight from Jaipur, six cases each from Nagaur and Kota and one each from Jhalawar, Jhunjhunu and Ajmer. Also, six evacuees from Iran were also found infected. Out of the eight cases in Jaipur, 2 came from KGB ka Raasta (Walled city) and one each from Mansarover, Vaishali Nagar, Jamwaramgarh (Rural Jaipur), Nahari Ka Naka, MD Road and Gangapole areas of the city. “Cases came from areas like Vaishali Nagar and Jamwaramgarh. Authorities have been intimated to start the containmnent process in a 2.5-km diameter from where these cases were reported,” said a senior officer of health department. So far, Rajasthan has tested 42,847 samples out of which 36,153 were negative and 5,465 are under process. “We managed to cure 183 people out of which 93 have been discharged from the hospital,” said Rohit Kumar Singh, additional chief secretary (health). Officials, however, refrained from commenting on the reasons why there was a sudden drop in the positive cases from Jaipur in the last three days.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jodhpur/death-toll-17-new-cases-98-total-infections-in-raj-1229/articleshow/75218442.cms||Ashish Mehta
April 18, 2020||Delhi||Corpns check Ayush tips to boost immunity of workers||New Delhi: Countries across world may be scrambling to procure supply of hydroxychloroquine as prophylaxis to prevent possibility of novel coronavirus infections in their frontline workers, but inspired by Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s call to use Ayush remedies for boosting immunity, the municipal corporations have come up with their own routine for healthcare workers and sanitation workers. South Delhi Municipal Corporation’s ayurveda department has issued new protocol recommendations to “boost immunity” for healthcare providers and sanitation workers. The guidelines are divided into daily routines and ayurveda preparations to be consumed. A senior corporation official overseeing the garbage lifting process from quarantine homes said that all such employees have been directed to gargle with gargle-salt preparation with 30ml water at an interval of four hours. “It is especially mandatory before and after the duty hours,” he added. Employees have also been advised to keep hot water boiled with coriander, saunth (dry ginger powder), tulsi and black pepper. “They should also take steam from boiling water, which is infused with Tulsi leaves,” the official said. Another field worker. who is involved in disinfection drives in south zone, said that nasal application of oil has also been told to be beneficial. “Before going to work and in the evening put two drops of oil in each nostril and rub it gently,” he said. Under the daily routine changes prescribed by the Ayush department, workers have been told to practice taking deep breaths for half an hour to make lungs stronger and to consume turmeric milk before sleeping. Civic bodies have also launched helplines for common citizens to take guidance from doctors of Ayush departments.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/corpns-check-ayush-tips-to-boost-immunity-of-workers/articleshow/75227557.cms||Paras Singh
April 18, 2020||Bhopal||e-passes to kickstart e-com, logistics||Bhopal: The Madhya Pradesh government has issued large number of e-passes to various companies including the e-commerce companies like Amazon and Flipkart among others to maintain the supply chain of essentials and ensure there is no scarcity. With these passes these companies would be able to supply goods across the state. Besides the e-commerce companies, passes have been issued to logistic companies and industries that transport their products from the production centre to central warehouse and then to the wholesaler. They are centralized e –passes and would facilitate supply and transportation of food, grocery and medicines among others. All the companies have been asked to strictly adhere to all the standard norms for the arrest of corona virus while transporting the goods. “Till April 16, we received 1,849 applications for the transportation of goods. Of these1,496 have been issued the passes. As many as 80 applications for non-goods carrier were rejected,” said principal secretary Industries Rajesh Rajora. Based on the April 15 guidelines of the Centre, the state government will also allow operations at the special economic zones and exported oriented units, industrial estates and industrial townships from April 20. This would also include the arrangements for stay in big industrial units and stay and transportation of workers following implementation of standard operating protocol of social distancing, a government functionary said. As the Centre wants to revive the economic activities, the manufacturing of IT hard-wares among others will also be allowed from April 20. The government will also be allowing the economic activities in the rural areas and this will include operations in food processing units and even brick klins. Construction of roads, irrigations projects and buildings will also be allowed in rural area. Job oriented works under Mahatma Gandhi National rural employment guarantee act (MNREGA) will also be allowed with special attention to social distancing.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/e-passes-to-kickstart-e-com-logistics/articleshow/75211134.cms||---
April 18, 2020||Bhubaneswar||BMC says people no longer need govt quarantine||Bhubaneswar: With the gradual flattening of the curve of coronavirus in the state and in Bhubaneswar as well, the Bhubaneswar Municipal Corporation (BMC) said it is not required any more to bring people into government quarantine. Currently, there are only 26 people in the government quarantine with samples of seven among them testing negative. But they are yet to vacate the quarantine centre as they hail from outside Bhubaneswar. The BMC will facilitate their stay in a separate accommodation till the lockdown is lifted. Samples of remaining 19 have been sent for test. In the past two days, around 2000 samples state-wide were tested but none came positive. Out of more than 7,500 samples tested until Thursday, so far in Bhubaneswar alone around 1900 samples have been tested out of which 60 are positive. Srimanta Mishra, BMC deputy commissioner in charge of government quarantine said since lockdown, 92 persons have stayed in government quarantine and only 26 are left, who will be discharged based on their health status and completion of quarantine period. From the government quarantine home, only 14 positive cases have been reported. Once reported positive, they are shifted to the hospital in a special Covid-19 ambulance, he said. Bhubaneswar accounts for around 76 per cent of states Covid-19 cases (46 out of 60). Eleven localities have reported positive cases here with 18 from Bomikhal alone followed by eight in Suryanagar, six in Jharpada, four in Satyanagar, three in Unit-IV, two in Unit-V and one each in BJB Nagar, Badagad, Saheed Nagar, Kapila Prasad and Gymkhana Palm Heights BMC officials said no new suspects in the last one week have been brought to the government quarantine. If more positive cases are reported from here and more localities brought under containment zone, people will be taken to quarantine home. Currently, people in containment zones have been advised home quarantine. However, those who dont have facility in their home for remaining in isolation, they can be brought to government quarantine, said a BMC officer. Two days ago, chief minister had reviewed Covid 19 situation in the state and expressed concern about positive cases rising in Bhubaneswar and assigned six senior officers in the rank of additional chief secretary, principal secretary and secretaries to the government to oversee containment and prevention of disease in the city. A week ago the BMC enforced home quarantine in the containment zone adjoining areas, where Corona positive cases have been found. Instead of brining those areas under containment zone or expanding the zone further, the BMC started door-to-door surveillance for daily health mapping of people living nearby.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhubaneswar/bmc-says-people-no-longer-need-govt-quarantine/articleshow/75207897.cms||---
April 18, 2020||Rajkot||Woman’s body found from pond||Rajkot: The body of the 18-year-old woman who had left her home on April 14 was found in a pond of Sinai village in Anjar taluka of Kutch district on Thursday night. Police said the victim, identified as Heena Maheshweri, had left her home in Meghpar Borichi village of Anjar taluka in Kutch district, telling her family members that she was going to fetch milk. “We sent the body for postmortem, the report of which indicates that Maheshweri had died of drowning. However, we have taken the victim’s viscera to examine whether someone had murdered her by forcibly drowning her,” said an official from Adipur police station.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/womans-body-found-from-pond/articleshow/75209431.cms||---
April 18, 2020||Nashik||Credai seeks exclusion of Malegaon cases from dist figure||Nashik: The Confederation of Real Estate Developers’ Association of India (Credai) Nashik has urged the state government to keep Malegaon and Nashik district’s Covid-19 positive cases separate as Malegaon has emerged as a major hotspot with over 40 cases reported.Malegaon is located at a distance of about 100 km from Nashik city and has a separate municipal corporation. Over 40 cases have been reported from Malegaon alone while only five cases have been reported from Nashik city, said Umesh Wankhede, president of Credai Nashik. “Nashik has been included in the red zone because of Malegaon. Hence, industrial and other activities which are expected to begin from April 20 are likely to be affected. As Malegaon is far from Nashik, its cases of Covid-19 should not be counted in the figure of Nashik district,” he said.According to Wankhede, Nashik may fall in the green or the orange zone due to which it may get some respite from April 20 if Malegaon’s Covid-19 cases count is excluded from that of Nashik district. Credai Nashik has sent letters in this connection to chief minister Uddhav Thackery, health minister Rajesh Tope and district guardian minister Chhagan Bhujbal.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/credai-seeks-exclusion-of-malegaon-cases-from-dist-figure/articleshow/75211987.cms||Tushar Pawar
April 18, 2020||Bhubaneswar||Panel urges caution while making arrests||Cuttack: The high-powered committee formed to look into decongesting jails in the state has underlined the need for caution among police while making arrests during the lockdown. Accordingly, the commission, headed by Acting Chief Justice of Orissa high court as the ex-officio executive chairman of Odisha State Legal Services Authority (OSLSA), has directed the principal secretary home department and registrar general of the high court “for ensuring strict adherence to the directions of the Supreme Court regarding arrest”. The commission issued the direction while “addressing the concerns about overcrowding in jails due to continuing arrests in cases involving offences punishable with imprisonment below seven years”, at a meeting on Thursday. During the meeting, DG (prisons) Santosh Upadhayay told the committee that 3,190 prisoners have been released on bail, 281 on special furlough and 10 on parole till April 15 in compliance with the Supreme Court orders. On March 23, the Supreme Court had ordered all states to consider releasing some prisoners on parole to reduce overcrowding in prisons jails in the midst of Covid-19 pandemic. Each state was ordered to constitute a high-powered committee to decide on the matter. In its direction on Thursday, the committee said it expects adherence to the Supreme Court guidelines regarding arrest and remand in Armesh Kumar Vs State of Bihar case (2014) in which the apex court had held that no arrest should be made in a routine, casual and cavalier manner or on a mere allegation of commission of offence made against a person. The Supreme Court had directed that there should not be any automatic arrest/detention by the police even in non-bailable and cognizable offences and conditions precedent to making arrest/detention under the Code of Criminal Procedure must be satisfied. EoM||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhubaneswar/panel-urges-caution-while-making-arrests/articleshow/75207909.cms||lalmohan.patnaik
April 18, 2020||Delhi||Ramvir Singh Bidhuri urges Delhi CM Arvind Kejriwal to remove fixed charges in power bills||NEW DELHI: Leader of Opposition Ramvir Singh Bidhuri requested chief minister Arvind Kejriwal on Friday to do away with fixed charges in electricity bills and charge consumers only on the basis of their usage. “Businessmen, entrepreneurs and domestic consumers of Delhi are being bothered by the fixed charges... I urge Delhi government to remove the fixed charge on electricity bills forever and charge electricity bills based on meter reading,” the BJP legislator wrote to Kejriwal. According to Bidhuri, hefty electricity bills are being sent to domestic consumers in the name of average bills even during the lockdown. Such a bill should be based on the reading of the previous month, he demanded. Small-scale industries, showrooms and shopkeepers are also getting huge bills even though everything is shut due to the lockdown, he claimed. Referring to Rajasthan and Punjab, both Congress-ruled states, former Delhi Congress chief Ajay Maken said these governments had deferred the fixed charges of all non-domestic and industrial connections for March and April. Delhi government should also do the same for three months, Maken urged. The discoms have stopped meter reading and physical distribution of electricity bills following the nationwide lockdown.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/bidhuri-urges-cm-to-remove-fixed-charges-in-power-bills/articleshow/75212888.cms||Ritam Halder
April 18, 2020||Rajkot||Two cousin sisters drown in Vatrak river||Palanpur: Two minor cousin sisters drowned in Vatrak river near Bhukhel village in Bayed taluka of Aravalli district on Friday morning. The duo — Bediben Bharwad and Ramjuben — aged 15 years, were native of Bhukhel village and come to the river for a bath. The incident came to life when the two girls did not return to the village even after two hours. Villagers came to the river bank and found their bodies floating in the water. Police said that the girls went too deep into the water and drowned.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/two-cousin-sisters-drown-in-vatrak-river/articleshow/75209463.cms||---
April 18, 2020||Nashik||Police up security at Kasara Ghat, keep watch on trucks||Nashik: Security was tightened on the Kasara Ghat section of the Mumbai-Agra highway after police received an alert two days back that migrant workers could travel from the said area. The police bandobast is in place at all the possible routes to prevent people from travelling through the said section. After the lockdown was extended till May 3, many migrants staying in Mumbai might attempt to move towards their hometowns. A few days back, a section of migrants had gathered at Bandra railway station demanding transport arrangements to ply them to their native place. This could further make things difficult for the district administration and police officials in curtaining the spread of Covid-19. To avoid any such situation from arising, the security has been increased to 100 police personnel, which is double of what was before April 14, said senior police officers. The Kasara Ghat section is guarded by the highway police, Nashik rural police and Thane police. The highway police said that they are checking all the vehicles thoroughly to ensure that the migrant workers are not transported by truck drivers. Meanwhile, the rural police have also put up checkpoints along the Mumbai-Agra highway to keep an eye on movement of migrants. “People should stay at home in their respective areas until the lockdown is lifted ,” said a senior police officer. Police officers said that other than the driver and cleaner, no one is allowed to travel in trucks. If anyone else is found in trucks, they are handed over to the district administration officials, who later take them to shelter homes. Apart from the main roads and highway, the police patrolling has also been intensified on non-tar roads going through fields, which people could use to walk from one place to another.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/police-up-security-at-kasara-ghat-keep-watch-on-trucks/articleshow/75212003.cms||Santosh Sonawane
April 18, 2020||Bhopal||How political turmoil hit Madhya Pradesh’s coronavirus fight||BHOPAL: It was March 20 -- the day Kamal Nath resigned as chief minister of Madhya Pradesh after three weeks of political turmoil – that the first Coronavirus patients were detected in Jabalpur. There was no known Covid-19 case in Bhopal or Indore then. Now, less than four weeks later, the two cities have over 1,000 cases and Madhya Pradesh has shot to #3 in coronavirus count in the country. It’s been 25 days since chief minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan took oath for a fourth term, but MP is yet to have even a health minister or home minister, let alone a cabinet. Chouhan has been non-committal on swearing in a cabinet for now, saying the “focus is on combating the pandemic”. On April 13, he set up a 'BJP task force', packed with party leaders, to tackle Covid-19. Three days later, Madhya Pradesh had a record 391 cases, and the CM sought to reassure people by saying that the numbers are going up because so has testing. With lakhs of residents confined indoors in containment zones, the question on people’s minds is did the political turmoil cost the state dear in the fight against coronavirus? On April 16, CM Chouhan said in a video statement: “There had been no meeting on coronavirus with the chief minister in attendance till I took over. Health staff had also not been trained on how to protect themselves from infection.” However, Tulsi Silawat -- who was health minister in the Kamal Nath government till he went away to Bengaluru with 17 MLAs of Scindia group on March 10 -- differs. Asked if there was a delay in focusing on coronavirus threat and whether he, too, was responsible for it to an extent, he told TOI: “No. I had convened a high-level meeting on March 5 on coronavirus, which was presided by the then chief minister. Madhya Pradesh was the first state where an appeal by the chief minister was published in newspapers, but then I resigned on March 8-9 and Tarun Bhanot was given charge. Coronavirus threat was not that potent at that time but it’s a challenge now, both for MP and India. We should stop politicising the issue and do what the PM and the CM are asking us to do.” The political turmoil consumed the larger part of March, when coronavirus was spreading its tentacles undetected. The administration – which too was gingerly watching the political twists and turns -- began making efforts on its own, but in hindsight it was clearly far from enough. Bhopal collector ordered lockdown on March 22 and Indore followed the next day. Just two days after lockdown, Indore would have its first Covid-19 death on the night of March 25. State BJP chief V D Sharma admits there was a “little delay” in focusing on the coronavirus threat in MP due to the political crisis in March, but blames the Congress. “It was a Congress-made crisis. We never aggravated the crisis at any point in time. They indulged in horse-trading, tried to wean away (BJP MLAs) Sharad Kol and Narayan Tripathi. Later, conflict within Congress led to revolt. As a political party, we could not have kept our eyes closed to all that. But, if there has been a delay in making all-out efforts to control the spread of Coronavirus infection, Kamal Nath and Digvijaya Singh are responsible for it. We only responded to the crisis. Otherwise also, Kamal Nath says, Rahul Gandhi had warned of Coronavirus spread on February 12. What was he (Nath) doing for a month? Not a single test was conducted, nor were kits purchased,” Sharma said. Former minister Sajjan Singh Verma, a close confidante of Nath, also acknowledges there was a delay in preparing to tackle the coronavirus threat but holds BJP responsible. “We had said suspend the House because it’s time to fight coronavirus. The Speaker adjourned the House on March 16 because of the impending coronavirus threat. At that time, Shivraj Singh Chouhan had sarcastically said he didn’t know that the Speaker was an astrologer. If we had continued in the government for some more days, we would have attended only to Coronavirus. It was our intention, too, but BJP in its lust of power, undermined the coronavirus threat, which is now killing hundreds of people.” State Congress media cell in-charge, Jitu Patwari, however, said: “Despite the political crisis, we were focusing on coronavirus. We knew the gravity of the situation. The Speaker adjourned the House on March 16 because of coronavirus. Chief minister Kamal Nath resigned rather than prolong the issue further. The decision to close down cinemas and malls was taken by our government only. We were on the right path, but BJP’s lust for power aggravated the situation.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/how-political-turmoil-hit-mps-corona-fight/articleshow/75211156.cms||Ashutosh Shukla
April 18, 2020||Delhi||Delhi: Here’s how you can pay your water bills||NEW DELHI: With the extension of the lockdown period by another three weeks, one more billing cycle of DJB is likely to get affected. Residents across Delhi are feeling anxious about not being able to pay their bills, some are even worried if their connections will be severed. The revenue department of Delhi Jal Board has decided to provide two options to the consumers — the bills could either be calculated on the basis of the consumption pattern during the last rounds, which would be adjusted on an actual reading-basis in a subsequent billing cycle, or the consumer may pay on the actual reading-basis through DJB mobile app-mSeva, an official said. The official added that, as a preventive measure to contain the spread of novel coronavirus, the board was following social distancing norms due to which meter reading activities were stopped.“Recently, a meeting was chaired by the director of revenue department of DJB during which it was decided that water bills can be calculated on consumption pattern from the last bill rounds,” the official added. SMS of the water bill will be sent on the registered mobile number of the consumers. “The consumers can view the bill at DJB customer portal www.djb.gov.in and at DJB mobile app-mSeva. They may also pay water bills online through the app, online portal, or through any online agency approved under bharat bill payment system,” the official said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/heres-how-you-can-pay-your-water-bills/articleshow/75212908.cms||---
April 18, 2020||Delhi||Delhi Police registers sedition case against JNU student Sharjeel Imam||NEW DELHI: Delhi Police has registered a case of sedition against JNU student Sharjeel Imam for his speech that had “promoted enmity between people leading to riots around Jamia Milia Islamia University on December 15 last year.” In a supplementary chargesheet filed at the Saket district court, police mentioned that the violence broke out at the varsity after Imam gave an inflammatory speech outside the university gates where the students were protesting against the Citizenship Amendment Act. As per the chargesheet, Imam had used seditious statements of dividing the country into parts on December 13 which triggered the violence two days later. He had also allegedly given similar speeches at Aligarh Muslim University. “On the basis of evidences collected, sections of sedition and promoting enmity between classes were invoked in the case. The first chargesheet was filed against the rioters arrested by the SIT led by Rajesh Deo. A supplementary chargesheet in continuation of the earlier chargesheet has now been filed in the Saket court. Further investigation will be continued,” said Mandeep Singh Randhawa, Delhi Police spokesperson. Imam was also involved in organising protests at Delhi’s Shaheen Bagh where he allegedly suggested blocking of the road. He was arrested from Jehanabad in Bihar by the Crime Branch and was brought to Delhi where he was interrogated several times.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/police-register-sedition-case-against-sharjeel/articleshow/75227585.cms||---
April 18, 2020||Mysuru||Leopard found dead in Saragur||Mysuru: A four-year-old leopard which strayed out of forests, possibly in search of food, was found dead near the foothills of Chikkadevammabetta in Saragur taluk in the district on Friday. Foresters believe that the leopard might have died due to starvation as there are no injury marks on the carcass. The leopard was on the prowl in the area some time back. Forest officials said veterinarians who conducted the autopsy had collected the samples of some body parts and sent them to the laboratory to find the exact cause of the death. ACF Parameshwarappa, veternarians Dr Mahesh and Dr Prashanth visited the spot.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mysuru/leopard-found-dead-in-saragur/articleshow/75206577.cms||---
April 18, 2020||Bhubaneswar||Puri Jagannath Temple admn to give servitors Rs 5,000 each||Bhubaneswar: The 2,130 servitors of the Jagannath Temple in Puri, which has been shut since March 20 following the outbreak of the novel coronavirus, are set to receive Rs 5,000 each. The Shree Jagannath Temple Administration (SJTA) on Friday announced a Rs 1.6 crore package for these servitors, who have been facing financial hardships owing to the lockdown. “The money will be transferred to their bank accounts. A total of Rs 10,650,000 will be spent on this head,” SJTA’s administrator (ritual) Jitendra Sahoo said. The TOI on Friday published a story on the difficulties being faced by the servitors owing to the lockdown. While the temple is shut, only servitors are allowed inside to perform the daily rituals. Though the servitors welcomed the package, they demanded more financial assistance. “We depend solely on the Jagannath Temple for our livelihood. It is been nearly a month since the temple has been shut. Now with the lockdown period being extended until May 3, we have to sit idle at home. The cash assistance of only Rs 5,000 is not enough to meet our needs,” Ananta Tiadi, a servitor, said. The servitors said their income has been squeezed in several ways since 2014 when the temple administration banned devotees from getting atop chariots during the Rath Yatra. Many servitors used to make some extra bucks by escorting devotees to the chariots and performing puja for them in front of the deities. The practice has been discontinued since 2014, stripping the servitors of their additional source of income. In 2018, the administration banned the collection of “dakshina” or donation by servitors from devotees visiting the temple. “In such a situation, the families of many servitors find it difficult to make ends meet,” Jogendra Dasmohapatra, another servitor, said. Other priests said the remuneration they receive from the temple for performing the rituals is inadequate. A socio-economic study on the Jagannath Temple priests by the state-run Nabakrushna Choudhury Centre for Development Studies (NCDS) in 2013 revealed that 222 per 1,000 persons were found to be suffering from various diseases, which was taking a toll on their families financially and otherwise. The study also disclosed that nearly 1,042 (71%) families expected medical support from the temple authority whereas only 7.87% of the families had health insurance. Though 105 priests families were included in the below poverty line (BPL) category, several other families too are reeling from financial problems. The penury of many priests have often cost the devotees dear as there have been instances of servitors harassing and beating them up for not paying them exorbitant dakshina.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhubaneswar/puri-jagannath-temple-admn-to-give-servitors-rs-5000-each/articleshow/75207927.cms||Debabrata Mohapatra
April 18, 2020||Hubballi||Alcoholics find an alternative in sanitisers, chemists wary||Hubballi: A majority of chemists in Hubballi-Dharwad have stopped selling alcohol-based sanitisers to unknown persons following reports that tipplers are consuming them to cope with withdrawal symptoms. The health department has already issued a circular, highlighting the adverse effects of consuming sanitisers. Bars and wine shops have been closed ever since the Covid-19 lockdown was enforced, leaving alcoholics with withdrawal symptoms. Some of them are taking to sanitisers to get a high. Some chemists said they grew suspicious after people started buying sanitisers in large quantities. Some of them even stopped selling it despite having the stock. A chemist from the Old Hubballi area said a man recently demanded 12 bottles of alcohol-based sanitisers. When the chemist asked why he needed so many, the man claiming to be a volunteer said he would distribute them among the needy. Not convinced, the chemist asked him to show the volunteer pass issued by the government. After being caught on the wrong foot, the man walked away. Another chemist said he too stopped selling alcohol-based sanitisers after hearing about their misuse. To prevent the misuse of sanitisers, chemists in the twin-cities are selling gel- or foam-based alcohol sanitisers. Interestingly, those who come asking for alcohol-based sanitisers refuse to buy these varieties. Interestingly, a chemist said alcohol-based sanitisers manufactured by sugar mills are in great demand, especially those coming in 180ml bottles. “As it contains 95% of ethyl alcohol, tipplers are confusing it with ethanol. Ethyl alcohol, being more potent than ethanol, is dangerous for consumption. It is not a solution to beat withdrawal symptoms,” he said. District health officer Yashwant A Madinkar said consuming sanitisers may cause hepatitis, pancreatitis or ulcers. “Those who are experiencing withdrawal symptoms can seek help from doctors or psychiatrists,” he added. Alcohol-based sanitisers are key disinfectants to protect people from coronavirus.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hubballi/alcoholics-find-an-alternative-in-sanitisers-chemists-wary/articleshow/75212027.cms||Kishan Singh Bhorde
April 18, 2020||Ranchi||No one in Hindpiri will need to step out of their homes, says CM Hemant||Ranchi: Chief minister Hemant Soren on Friday said the government is focusing on expanding its sample testing capacity for Covid-19 and has urged the Union ministry of health and family welfare to provide them with RT-PCR machines so that at least the number of samples being tested every day can be doubled. “During my video conference with the Union health minister recently, I have demanded more number of RT-PCR machines and have requested him to direct ICMR on expediting the process of setting up new testing laboratories in Jharkhand since we had submitted a proposal in this regard quite a while ago.” When asked if he has raised any demand for rapid anti-body diagnostic kit from the Centre, Soren said, “Our first priority is to screen more and more people and test them for any symptoms of Covid-19. Therefore, we have not asked for the anti-body kits but I am in touch with the personal secretary of Union health minister Harsh Vardhan to ensure their availability soon. He added, “I have also directed the health department officials to establish testing facilities at all three new medical colleges at Palamu, Dumka and Hazaribag as per the ICMR guidelines.” On Friday, Soren launched the Mukhyamantri Ahaar programme at Gurunanak School here which has been turned into a makeshift control and command centre for catering to the city’s Covid-19 hotspots. Flagging off vehicles loaded with packets of essential commodities for the Hindpiri residents, Soren said the government will ensure uninterrupted supply of edible items and other essential commodities for each and every household in Hindpiri so that no one is required to step out of his/her home amid the ongoing lockdown. “We have decided to provide the food packets to more than 8,000 households in Hindpiri area. The packet consists of rice, pulses, cooking oil, potatoes, onions, etc,” he added. He further said, “The district administration will supply packets of milk powder to every household.” Soren also said that the government has decided to start similar distributions at all containment zones across Jharkhand and has directed district authorities in Bokaro to distribute essential items in Pipradih, Sadam and Telo village in the district. Meanwhile, Soren thanked the Sikh community for extending their support to the district administration by providing them the Gurunanak school campus to set up a control and command centre.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/no-one-in-hindpiri-will-need-to-step-out-of-their-homes-says-cm-hemant/articleshow/75209579.cms||---
April 18, 2020||Ranchi||Mini cabinet meets under GoM banner||Ranchi: The Group of Ministers (GoM) that was announced to comprise three ministers — two from Congress and one from RJD — was soon changed to a four-member committee by the time the cabinet coordination department released a press statement on the same day. One minister from JMM quota – Champai Soren — was included. However, on Friday, when the convener of the GoM, health minister Banna Gupta, summoned a meeting of the members at Nepal House, apart from the four designated ministers, two more Congress ministers — Badal Patralekh and Alamgir Alam — also attended the meeting. The high-powered committee, however, came up with very few concrete suggestions regarding preparedness for a partial relaxation of lockdown from April 20, especially in the districts from where no Covid-19 case have been reported yet. Champai said that once the lockdown is lifted, around eight lakh labourers are expected to come back. “We have to not only arrange food for them, but proper testing and quarantine facilities should also be provided,” he said. Another member of the GoM, Satyanand Bhokta suggested increasing the number of Mukhyamantri Daal Bhaat centres and include sattu along with foodgrains being distributed to the poor and needy. Rameshwar Oraon, sought free train service for the labourers when they return and asked the government to rope in services of representatives at the panchayat level. The two non-members of the GoM, Badal and Alam, also extended suggestions. Alam said that agriculture related work should be allowed after April 20 with proper guidelines for social distancing while Badal sought relaxation for milkmen and asked the government to allow sweet shops to open so that the milk is not wasted. The GoM decided to meet every Friday and apprise the CM about the decisions taken.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/mini-cabinet-meets-under-gom-banner/articleshow/75210084.cms||---
April 18, 2020||Ranchi||IIT(ISM) Dhanbad, CII to give dry ration to leprosy patients||Sindri: IIT (ISM) Dhanbad joined hands with the Confederation of Indian Industry (CII) and their NGO partners Sasakawa Leprosy Foundation to provide relief to the patients of leprosy all over Dhanbad district. The team led by IIT (ISM) director Rajiv Shekhar will distribute dry ration to 384 families in nine colonies of such patients in Dhanbad. Kumar said, “In the first phase, 1,350kg wheat flour, 550kg potatoes, 146 litre cooking oil and 130kg pulses were distributed among 251 families in six leprosy colonies of Dhanbad, benefiting around 1,000 people. Soaps were also distributed to these families.” The colonies in which the dry rations were distributed include Asha Vihar colony, Jharia, Balugadda Kustha colony, Jharia, Bankathi Kustha colony, Jharia, Durgapur Kustha colony, Jharia, Baniahir Kustha colony, Bhaga and Prem Nagar, Sindri. The next phase of the distribution will be carried out on Saturday at three remaining colonies, including BMP colony in Chiragora, Adarsh Nagar Kustha Colony in Kusunda and Bhalgoria Kustha Colony in Nirsa, covering 133 families.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/iitism-dhanbad-cii-to-give-dry-ration-to-leprosy-patients/articleshow/75209480.cms||---
April 18, 2020||Ranchi||Parents of newborn baby among 3 more positive in city, state count 32||Ranchi: Three more persons from Hindpiri locality, the epicentre of the Covid-19 outbreak in the city, tested positive on Friday, taking the total number of cases in the state to 32. Of the 32 cases, 29 are active and Ranchi alone has 17 cases. State health secretary Nitin Madan Kulkarni said, “We have detected three more positive cases for Covid-19 in Ranchi and all three of them have had direct or indirect contact with infected patients from Hindpiri area.” Among the trio is a couple, of whom the husband is a 35-year-old while the wife is aged about 24 years. The other patient is a 32-year-old resident of Kurban Chowk locality in Hindpiri and had direct contact with his brother who tested positive on Monday. Samples of the couple were collected on Wednesday when the woman was taken to the district hospital after she went into labour. A day after giving birth to a baby, they tested positive on Friday. Health authorities said baby will be kept in the isolation ward of Rims under the supervision of a paediatrician and its samples will also be collected. “The couple were staying at Hindpiri for the last eight months and they might have come in indirect contact with someone in the area who was infected,” Ranchi DC Rai Mahimapat Ray said. The woman was admitted at the hospital for more than 48 hours and doctors, nursing staff and paramedics who attended to her are sent to quarantine and their samples will be collected in next few days. Kulkarni said. He added, “As the couple was from the Hindpiri area, health teams had collected samples as a precautionary measure. All staff members who attended to the woman had taken precautions and attended to her only after wearing protective kits. We have sanitized the ward and the hospital staff are being sent to quarantine and their samples will be taken in the next five days.” On being inquired whether health teams will collect samples of the one day old kid, district health authorities confirmed that he will be kept in an isolated ward at RIMS under supervision of a paediatrician.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/parents-of-newborn-baby-among-3-more-positive-in-city-state-count-32/articleshow/75209944.cms||Gaurav Pandey
April 18, 2020||Ahmedabad||DGP: 13 more jamaatis booked in two cases||Ahmedabad: In two cases on Friday, one registered in Radhanpur and the other in Vadodara, in all 13 ‘Sura’ jamaatis were booked for returning to the state violating the lockdown. In The Radhanpur case, eight persons had gone to Pokhran to attend a tabligh jamaat before the lockdown and returned on Friday. In the Vadodara case, five persons had gone to Haryana before the lockdonw and they too returned on Friday. “Including these two, in all eight cases have been registered against Sura jamaat members until now,” DGP Shivanand Jha said on Friday. Jha added that all persons booked in these two cases have been sent for medical check-up, and those who test negative will be arrested forthwith. Referring to the curfew imposed in Jangleshwar and Raj Laxmi areas of Rajkot, Jha said the curfew covers an area of 2.5 sq km, and three companies of SRP and a team of eight mounted policemen have been given to Rajkot police as reinforcement. “The mounted police will patrol the riverbed area,” Jha said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/dgp-13-more-jamaatis-booked-in-two-cases/articleshow/75210591.cms||---
April 18, 2020||Ranchi||Land allocated in Bundu for cremation and burial of bodies, state govt tells HC||Ranchi: The state government on Friday informed the Jharkhand high court that it has earmarked a land in Bundu, located far away from the populated localities, for disposal of deceasedlast rites infected by Covid-19. The district administration will cremate or bury the victims in the demarcated land so as to avoid protests from nearby localities, as was witnessed in two city localities earlier this week when the authorities tried to bury the city’s first Covid casualty in two burial grounds. During the hearing before a division bench comprising Chief Justice Ravi Ranjan and Justice S N Prasad, the government said the Centre’s guidelines regarding body and bio-medical waste management for the Covid-19 pandemic is being followed strictly. The court observed that the PIL is now dropped since the issue raised in the petition has been redressed. The division bench has heard PILs on various issues related to Covid-19, including availability of safety kits for frontline workers, illegal movement of people from Hindpidhi area, disposal of deceased and care for transgenders. Advocate general Rajiv Ranjan said, “I submitted before the court that there were instances of mis-reporting and improper reporting in the media. The court pointed out that under such crisis situation, media should ensure responsibility while reporting.” Ranjan said the government will submit its view on various media reports related to violations of lockdown norms in the next hearing. He further said the government will also submit a detailed report on various aspects of Covid-19 crisis, including its preparation for the pandemic.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/land-allocated-in-bundu-for-cremation-and-burial-of-bodies-state-govt-tells-hc/articleshow/75210316.cms||---
April 18, 2020||Ranchi||BGH staff who came in contact with Covid patient test -ve||Bokaro: The 62 health workers at Bokaro General Hospital (BGH) whose swab and blood samples were sent for a Covid-19 test after they recently came in contact with a 75-year-old Covid-19 patient, came out negative on Thursday night. Deputy commissioner Mukesh Kumar said, “All the 62 samples that were sent to the testing centres in Ranchi and Dhanbad, came out negative. The samples were sent on the basis of contact tracing.” The 75-year-old man, who had come to BGH in the first week of April with chest pain and shortness of breath, was being treated at the the hospital’s critical care unit. It was only found out later that he was a Covid-19 patient after one of the BGH doctors, fearing that the man has symptoms of the virus, sent his blood samples for a test. The senior citizen, who lived in Gomia block, died soon after his test results came out and the doctors treating him were put under quarantine. With nine positive cases of Covid-19, Bokaro has become the second district in Jharkhand after Ranchi with the most number of coronavirus patients. Of these, five are residents of Chandrapura block and four belong to Gomia block. Out of the nine, eight are being treated in BGH. Civil surgeon Ashok Kumar Pathak said the situation in Bokaro is completely under control. “As of now, the possibility of community transition here is negligible,” he added. So far, 316 samples from Bokaro were sent for a Covid-19 test Rims, Ranchi and PMCH, Dhanbad. Of which, 250 tested negative, nine were positive and the results of 57 are yet to come.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/bgh-staff-who-came-in-contact-with-covid-patient-test-ve/articleshow/75210140.cms||---
April 18, 2020||Ranchi||After success of Easter services, Church to live-stream Sunday mass||Ranchi: Spurred by the success of the live streaming of Easter services recently and after getting numerous requests from people, the Catholic Church on Friday announced that it will telecast the Sunday mass live on April 19 from the archbishop house chapel in the city. The archbishop house at Purulia Road, Ranchi, is the official residence of Felix Toppo, the archbishop of Ranchi. “The live streaming of Easter services on Maundy Thursday, Good Friday, Easter Vigil and Easter Sunday mass (April 9 to 12) , was an enormous success with several lakh faithful, across India and abroad, witnessing the services celebrated at Ranchi, while staying at home and remaining safe. It was the first-ever live streaming of church services in known history,” Theodore Mascarenhas, auxilliary bishop of Ranchi, told TOI. A notice, signed by Toppo and Mascarenhas and issued on Friday, said following requests by people to continue live telecast of the mass, the Catholic Church has decided to telecast live the Sunday mass on 19 April at 9am from the archbishop house chapel. “The live telecast of the Holy Mass is only a temporary arrangement during the Covid-19 lockdown to enable people watch the celebration of the Holy Eucharist. Watching the Holy Mass on TV does not fulfil one’s Sunday obligation to be present at the church in person, but in view of the physical impossibility of attending the Sunday mass, we have given a provisional exemption from the obligation. The exemption will cease as soon as the situation becomes normal,” the notice stressed. The Gossner Evangelical Lutheran Church, the oldest church in Chhotanagpur, is also continuing with its daily digital church services, which it commenced from March 27. Readings from the Gospel, messages from GEL church leaders and bishops along with important notifications are being regularly recorded and uploaded on the GEL Church official Facebook page and on the church website.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/after-success-of-easter-services-church-to-live-stream-sunday-mass/articleshow/75209532.cms||Tapas Biswas
April 18, 2020||Ranchi||Hazaribag admin screens 15 lakh people for virus symptoms||Hazaribag: The Hazaribag administration on Friday said it has screened over 15 lakh people across six blocks of the district for symptoms of Covid-19. Deputy commissioner Bhuvnesh Pratap Singh said 15 lakh people were screened across Barhi, Barkattha, Chouparan, Padma, Chalkusha and Sadar blocks. “Among them, around 9,850 had returned from various parts of the country,” Singh said. In all, over two lakh households were screened. The DC further said screening of the remaining population of the district will start from Saturday. Hazaribag has an estimated population of over 20 lakh across 16 blocks. Meanwhile, Hazaribag civil surgeon Dr Krishna Kumar allegedly misbehaved with journalists when he was asked to comment on whether the Hazaribag Medical College and Hospital has received its consignment of ventilators from ICMR. “The media of Hazaribag has developed a habit of disturbing us,” he said and refused to talk further.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/hazaribag-admin-screens-15-lakh-people-for-virus-symptoms/articleshow/75209822.cms||---
April 18, 2020||Ranchi||Deposit Rs 35k each to PM-CARES fund for bail: HC to BJP men||Ranchi: The Jharkhand high court on Thursday granted conditional bail to six BJP leaders, including a former MP, who were sentenced to one-year simple imprisonment for leading the party’s “rail rokko” protest in March 2012. The conditions of the bail include depositing Rs 35,000 each to the Prime Minister’s Citizens’ Assistance and Relief in Emergency Situation (PM CARES) fund and downloading the Aarogya Setu, a Covid-19 contact-tracing app launched by the Centre. Justice Anubha Rawat Chawdhary, while granting their bail, said, “The petitioners shall show proof of payment of Rs 35,000 each in the PM CARES before the learned court prior to their release.” Justice Chowdhary also directed them to download “Aarogya Setu” app immediately after their release from custody. They also have to follow directions of the central and state governments issued for containment of the Covid-19 pandemic. Those granted bail are former Rajmahal MP Som Marandi and party functionaries from Pakur district — Vivekanand Tiwari, Amit Agrawal, Hisabi Rai, Sanchay Bardhan and Anugrah Prasad Sah. They were convicted under Section 174 (a) of the Railways Act by a lower court in connection with the BJP’s “rail rokko” agitation staged in Pakur in March 2012. The court sentenced to one-year simple imprisonment in August 2017 and the sessions court, in August 2018, rejected their appeal to quash the case, after which they moved the high court for review of the verdict in the same year. The petitioners also surrendered before the HC in February 2020. The HC further asked them to submit self-attested copies of their Aadhaar cards and provide their mobile numbers before the court. They were asked not to change their contact numbers without permission of the court. Additional public prosecutor Rakesh Kumar Sinha said, “During the proceedings, the petitioners’ lawyer said his clients were ready to donate money to PM CARES.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/deposit-rs-35k-each-to-pm-cares-fund-for-bail-hc-to-bjp-men/articleshow/75209645.cms||Sanjay Sahay
April 18, 2020||Ranchi||Curfew imposed in 3km radius of Covid-19 patient’s home in Dhanbad village||Sindri: The Dhanbad district administration on Friday imposed a curfew within a 3-km radius around Baghakudi Basti in Kumardhubi under Egyarkund block of the district from Thursday midnight. The move comes after a 23-year-old resident of the locality tested positive for Covid-19, making it the first case in the district. With the curfew in place, all entry and exit points of the village have been sealed. The administration has circulated a phone number through which residents of the containment zone can seek help to get essential items, including foodgrains, milk and water. Besides, a 7-km radius from the house of the affected person has been declared as buffer zone in which restricted entry and exit are allowed to people with valid reasons. The administration has also created 21 check posts at strategic places of the district to stop people from coming out of their houses without any valid reason. Magistrates have been deployed at all the posts and SP (city) R Ramkumar himself was seen checking vehicles in Dhanbad. The district administration heaved a sigh of relief when test reports of all the five family members of the Covid-19 patient turned out to be negative. Dhanbad DC Amit Kumar, SSP Kishore Kaushal and SDO Raj Maheshwaram visited Baghakudi Basti on Friday and spoke to neighbours of the patient. Maheshwaram said, “The neighbours told us that after returning from Jamuria in Asansol on April 5 with coronavirus-like symptoms, the patient had fully quarantined himself and did not meet anybody from the village.” When asked how the positive youth returned to his Baghakudi home from Jamuria in Asansol on a motorcycle despite complete lockdown, the SDO said that the administration is looking into the incident.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/curfew-imposed-in-3km-radius-of-covid-19-patients-home-in-dhanbad-village/articleshow/75209986.cms||Anil Ashutosh
April 18, 2020||Ahmedabad||Sanghi Industries, Ratnamani Tubes partially reopen plants||Ahmedabad: Sanghi Industries Ltd and Ratnamani Metals and Tubes Ltd have partially restarted their plants in Gujarat after getting permission from the state government. “Based on the permission from the government of Gujarat, we have resumed production and begun partial operations at our plant at Sanghipuram in Kutch,” Sanghi Industries informed the stock exchanges on Friday. The cement maker has put in place safety measures for employees according to the guidelines issued by the government, to control the spread of Covid-19. Ratnamani Metals and Tubes also informed the bourses about partially starting operations at the company’s plants in Chhatral (Kalol) and Kutch. “The company is also ensuring compliance with directives being issued by central, state, municipal authorities regarding Covid-19,” Ratnamani on Friday stated in filings with the stock exchanges. Gujarat Alkalies and Chemicals Ltd (GACL) on Thursday began partial operation of its anhydrous aluminium chloride (AAC) plant and poly-aluminium chloride (PAC) plants at the Dahej complex in Bharuch district. Considering the requirements of customers such as local authorities and essential industries, the state-run company has partially restarted some of its plants at Vadodara and Dahej.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/sanghi-industries-ratnamani-tubes-partially-reopen-plants/articleshow/75210617.cms||---
April 18, 2020||Ahmedabad||Mob pelts cops with stones in Bapunagar||Ahmedabad: Attacks on cops seem to be spreading further in the city. Bapunagar police faced two such incidents on Thursday, in which a total of 16 persons were arrested and booked for rioting, violation of Section 144 of the CrPC and breach of lockdown rules. A group of 30 to 40 people standing near vegetable handcarts near Soneria Blocks on Thursday evening pelted stones at cops who h had come to book them lockdown violations. Reinforcements were called in and 12 persons were arrested while the others managed to escape. Cops are hunting for one Vinod Patni who is believed to have instigated the mob. Among the arrested are Rajesh Patni, Bharat Patni, Gopal Patni, Vishnu Patni , Virendra Yadav, Ranchod Patni, Champa Patni, Kanta Patni and Nirali Patni. “They have been booked for rioting and violation of lockdown rules and Section 144 of the CrPC. We are hunting for others,” said a Bapunagar police official. The second incident took place near Raghunath Hindi School in Bapunagar. When cops tried to book four persons who were standing on the road, one of them identifying himself as a Navy man, snatched a stick from a cop and tried to hit him. Ohter cops overpowered him and all four accused were arrested. DGP Shivanand Jha had earlier said that stern action including action under the Prevention of Anti-Social Activities Act (PASA), would be taken against those who police or health workers. Last week, a team of Vejalpur police came under heavy stone pelting in Juhapura.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/mob-pelts-cops-with-stones-in-bapunagar/articleshow/75210642.cms||---
April 18, 2020||Gurgaon||Gurugram man sells phone to buy food for family, then hangs himself||GURUGRAM: Mukesh had on Thursday morning found a buyer for his cellphone. He got Rs 2,500 for it. He bought sugar, flour and rice, and a table fan so that his four kids could sleep more comfortably, with that money. The balance he handed over to his wife. He then went inside his tin hutment, within a slum cluster at Saraswati Kunj behind DLF Phase 5, made a noose and hung himself from the ceiling. Mukesh’s wife Poonam, who was sitting under a neem tree near the house, found him dead when she walked in a while later. The money Mukesh (in his early 30s) got from selling the phone was all he had. Neighbours pooled money for his last rites. Mukesh’s troubles, according to his father-in-law Umesh Mukhiya, had begun two months ago when he stopped getting regular house painting jobs, which was his primary trade. So, he started working for daily wages, doing whatever job he could find, Umesh told TOI on Friday. But those jobs dried up completely from March 24 when the nationwide lockdown to stop the spread of the novel coronavirus infection came into force. Mukesh found himself without an income. Over the last few weeks, the little savings he had ran out. He had, according to Umesh, also taken some loans and was under pressure to repay them. “He had not had a proper job in the last couple of months. He was managing by doing odd jobs as a daily wager. When the lockdown happened, that also stopped and so did the money,” Umesh, who himself is recovering from a broken foot, said. Police commissioner Mohammad Akil, however, said Umesh had in a statement shared with police claimed Mukesh was mentally unstable. “According to a family member of the deceased, he was into begging and had no regular source of income. He was mentally unstable and no one is responsible for his death,” Akil told TOI. Senior IAS officer VS Kundu, chief of the Gurugram Metropolitan Development Authority, said it had been brought to his notice that Mukesh was upset. “We are trying to ascertain if our teams failed to provide sufficient food in the area. In that case, we need to fix the issue so that no one else is forced to take such a decision. I have asked the deputy commissioner to look into the matter,” Kundu said. Umesh did not refer to Mukesh’s mental health during the interaction with this correspondent on Friday afternoon. Poonam (25) spoke little. “The neighbours gave us some food and we ate that,” she said when asked if the family had food. Poonam and Mukesh’s youngest child, Ravi Kishan, is just five months old. The three other kids are Kajal (2), Golu (4) and Soni (7). Police were alerted about the suicide by a neighbour. Mukesh’s body was handed over to the family on Friday after an autopsy. “We received a call on Thursday that he had committed suicide as he was not able to feed his wife and four children,” said a police officer. For his last rites on Friday, neighbours contributed Rs 5,000. “We did whatever little we could to help them,” said Zaura, who lives in the same slum cluster. Asked if government or private organisations had been providing food in the area, the slum dwellers said cooked meals do reach the colony, but there are many mouths to feed and it’s not sufficient for everyone. “As of now, we will just have to ask friends and family for help in order to survive,” Umesh said, pointing to his foot that has limited his own capacity to work.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/gurgaon/gurugram-man-sells-phone-to-buy-food-for-kin-kills-self/articleshow/75212381.cms||Shubhra Pant
April 18, 2020||Business||PM, Shah, Rajnath hail RBI’s measures to soothe economy||NEW DELHI: Prime Minister Narendra Modi and other senior BJP functionaries, including Home Minister Amit Shah, Defence Minister Rajnath Singh and party president JP Nadda, on Friday welcomed the measures taken by the RBI in the wake of countrywide lockdown due to Covid-19. The central bank eased bad-loan rules, froze dividend payment by lenders and pushed banks to lend more by cutting the reverse repo rate by 25 basis points to help mitigate risk to the economy posed by the pandemic. PM Modi said the RBI’s announcements "will greatly enhance liquidity and improve credit supply" in the system. Taking it to Twitter, Modi wrote: “Today’s announcements by @RBI will greatly enhance liquidity and improve credit supply. These steps would help our small businesses, MSMEs, farmers and the poor. It will also help all states by increasing WMA (ways and means advances) limits." Shah said the Modi government is leaving no stone unturned to tackle the crisis caused by the novel coronavirus outbreak in the country. Complimenting the RBI for the steps taken to boost the economy, he said such action will further reinforce Modi's vision. "Modi government is leaving no stone unturned in this fight against COVID-19, ensuring minimum disruption in people's lives while planning for a strong and stable India in days ahead," he tweeted. The home minister said the RBI's decision to extend Rs 20,000 crore credit facility to NABARD and Rs 15,000 crore to SIDBI will greatly help the farmers, provide the much needed financial stability to MSMEs and start ups, and boost the 'Make in India' programme Defence minister Rajnath Singh said, “The measures announced by RBI today will not only maintain adequate liquidity in the system but also boost the economic recovery in the country. Prime Minister Narendra Modi is leaving no stone unturned to stimulate the Indian economy in these difficult times and give relief to people," tweeted Singh. BJP president J P Nadda said RBI measures will help protect people's livelihoods and will be a "milestone" in helping the Prime Minister’s efforts to keep economy strong during and after the Covid-19 crisis. Union minister Piyush Goyal asserted that RBI Governor Shaktikanta Das' announcement to do whatever it takes is a "massive confidence booster" for the economy.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/pm-shah-rajnath-hail-rbis-measures-to-soothe-economy/articleshow/75213686.cms||---
April 18, 2020||Ahmedabad||Makeshift markets lessen APMC burden||Ahmedabad: AMC staff and police officials at Gita Mandir bus station had a tough time handling the crowd gathered to buy vegetables at the two makeshift markets set up there. People in groups of four or five were coming to buy vegetables in bulk even though restrictions are in force in the city. Sources said that the police had to use force and had heated arguments with the traders when the cops found that the social distancing rules were not being followed. The AMC ensured that the retailers purchase packed bags brought by the farmers. These bags weighed from 10kg to 15kg. Wholesale traders had told their retailers to come one person at a time to purchase vegetables. The buyer had to pick a packed bag. No one was allowed to open the bags. APMC officials said that their primary concern on the day one of trading was to ensure a smooth operation. “Our focus was not on footfall. AMC and police officials helped us in managing the affairs,” said an APMC official. The Sunday market on the riverfront was divided in two sections. In one section, only wholesale trading was permitted while in another only retailers were allowed. The officials said that at the riverfront, the number of wholesale traders was less as compared to Gita Mandir. Since the system was already in place at the riverfront, there was not much of an issue. A trader said that the new system has been able to reduce the footfall at the APMC Jetalpur by over 40%. The officials said they are planning a couple of more wholesale markets to further reduce the burden on Jetalpur.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/makeshift-markets-lessen-apmc-burden/articleshow/75210677.cms||---
April 18, 2020||Ahmedabad||Travel agents breathe easy as airlines told to issue refunds||AHMEDABAD: In a major relief to customers as well as travel agents and tour operators, the Union ministry of civil aviation announced that airlines will have to issue refunds for tickets booked for travel from April 15 onwards. Initially, since the lockdown was imposed till April 14, by the Union government, several travellers who were stranded or were to travel to another destination, had booked tickets from April 15 and that too at a premium. “The decision has not just benefited customers but even travel agents. The tourism and hospitality sector has taken a major hit due to the Covid-19 pandemic and the lockdown has affected working capital of most travel agents adversely, with zero income and more liabilities. The decision by the Union ministry will at least help travel agents cope with their liabilities and overheads and infuse some working capital,” said Manish Sharma, secretary – Gujarat, Travel Agents’ Federation of India (TAFI). Tour operators are reeling from losses and liquidity crunch because a huge chunk of money is stuck with the airlines for international and hotel bookings. Estimates by TAFI suggest that at least Rs 350 crore worth of funds are stuck with airlines alone. While tour operators are happy with the government intervention, they expect the same for bookings made during the first phase of the lockdown. “That is where major losses have been incurred because airlines are only giving credit notes instead of actual refunds. This does not help tour operators in any way because while their working capital will get stuck, they will also lose goodwill of their regular clients without refunds,” said Anuj Pathak, secretary, Travel agents and tour operators’ Association of Gujarat (TAG).||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/travel-agents-breathe-easy-as-airlines-told-to-issue-refunds/articleshow/75210715.cms||---
April 18, 2020||India||Kerala & Tamil Nadu on way to flattening Covid-19 curve?||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM/CHENNAI: Two southern states appear on course in their effort to flattening the Covid-19 curve with fresh daily cases in Kerala dropping to the single-digit level in the past one week while the number of people getting discharged from hospitals in Tamil Nadu exceeding those getting admitted. Kerala has reported just 32 new cases from April 11 to 17 while 129 patients have recovered from the infection during this period. The total number of cases reported so far is 395. However, not too long ago, health officials were fearing that by mid-April this number would be 500. Dr Amar Fettle, state nodal officer for infectious diseases, said the state was now getting cases only from among those quarantined. “Among the 395 cases reported, we had more from among those who came from abroad (277). This shows that the timely quarantining of people had brought down the cases even among the primary contacts,” he said. Follow TOI for latest updates on CoronavirusThe state’s decision to enforce a 28-day quarantine for those who returned from high-risk countries over and above the 14-day WHO-mandated quarantine also paid dividends. “It reduced the number of direct contacts,” said Kerala Medical Officers Association state secretary Dr G S Vijayakrishnan. However, experts warn against lowering the vigil and say the state’s health machinery would have a daunting task if the state’s borders are thrown open after May 3. Read AlsoHow Kerala managed to flatten the Covid graphAs early as January 18, the state health department issued a Covid-19 alert and began to screen passengers arriving from abroad, initially from China. International arrivals were given a health card in which they had to list their travel details and health condition. Over the next week, it set upIn Tamil Nadu, researchers and epidemiologists see signs of the beginning of the end of Covid-19, saying more people are getting cured than those getting infected. On Friday, when the state reported 56 new cases, 103 patients got discharged from hospitals. Sitabhra Sinha from The Institute of Mathematical Sciences says the growth of cases in the state is linear, but not exponential. Medical experts attribute it to effective contact tracing. If the present trend continues and no fresh clusters emerge, Tamil Nadu may be able to flattening the curve by the time lockdown ends. As on Friday, Tamil Nadu had 1,323 confirmed cases, 283 recovered and 15 deaths. States like Maharashtra have been recording an exponential rise with 3,202 confirmed cases, 164 recovered and 194 deaths. National Institute of Epidemiology director Manoj V Murhekar says the doubling period getting longer is an indicator of the situation stabilising.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/kerala-tamil-nadu-on-way-to-flattening-covid-19-curve/articleshow/75213804.cms||---
April 18, 2020||Nagpur||This NGO is a messiah for hostel students, sr citizens||Nagpur: A senior citizen at Empress City was facing trouble as his maid stopped coming after a patient tested positive there. Similarly, another old woman staying alone at Dharampeth couldn’t recharge her mobile due to lockdown. Maitree Parivar Sanstha’s young volunteers came to their rescue by not only arranging food, but also helping them out in procuring medicines, recharging mobile phones and other important works. The NGO, famous for organizing the concerts of Asha Bhosle and Ajay-Atul, has started a helpline number targeting not only senior citizens, but also hostel students and working professionals, who’re dependent on mess service or tiffins. After starting their helpline, they received over 400 calls on the first day and now they supply fresh food to over 1,500 such needy persons daily. “We’ve decided to target only students and working professionals from outside the city, who are in large numbers and dependent on mess or tiffin and don’t have gas cylinder or ration card. All of them are stranded here due to lockdown and surviving on Maggi, bread and snacks,” member Rohit Himte told TOI. Initially, NGO’s under president Sanjay Bhende and secretary Pramod Pendke started reaching out to the poor and needy from March 25 by providing them food packets in association with Kotwali police station. Later, they realized that many stuck up students and professionals staying in hostels or privately were facing troubles. “We then decided to launch a helpline number where we received over 400 calls on the first day. We asked all callers to send their Aadhaar card and college or company’s identity card pictures and prepared a Google sheet. We also received calls from many senior citizens for help. Many couples in other cities too called us for helping out their aged parents as maids have stopped coming,” Himte said. Though Maitree Parivar had over 2,000 members, they’ve selected 90 volunteers comprising youths and middle age groups to deliver food parcels. “We’ve been granted permission for 12 four-wheelers by the Nagpur Municipal Corporation (NMC). In each vehicle, two of us distribute packets in the city. We’ve made 12 teams which covers 16 areas, from Pardi to Hingna to Wadi. For senior citizens, we’re working with Civic Action Guild Foundation to help them out for medicines, mobile recharge or any other help,” Himte said. The NGO prepares food at its hostel in Surendra Nagar while chapatis are made at homes of its members. “We try to provide excess food so that the person could eat it in the evening also. We can’t go out twice as we also have to observe social distancing and take care of ourselves,” he said, adding that they would continue their noble work till April 30.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/this-ngo-is-a-messiah-for-hostel-students-sr-citizens/articleshow/75210514.cms||Vaibhav Ganjapure
April 18, 2020||Business||Boroline maker to produce hand sanitisers||Kolkata: G D Pharmaceuticals, the maker of the iconic antiseptic cream Boroline, will now produce hand sanitisers, currently the most sought-after over-the-counter product across the globe amid the Covid-19 menace. The city-based skincare giant, which owns another successful brand Suthol, has bagged the necessary licence from the Government of West Bengal late on Thursday. “In a bid to meet the unprecedented demand for this product, we took this decision to embark on full-scale manufacturing of hand sanitisers in our plants at South 24-Parganas and Ghaziabad,” Debashis Dutta, the MD of G D Pharmaceuticals, told TOI on Friday. The new hand sanitiser — to be sold as Boroline Ruksha — will have over 72% alcohol content along with Neem and Aloe Vera extracts, said the heritage pharma major. The company, which has received the nod from the state health department in just four days, can produce 80,000 to one lakh hand sanitiser bottles weighing 100 ml or 200 ml each per day. Before bottling, sanitiser samples undergo a three-day-long microbiological test.  “We have our Taiwan-made assembly lines ready, but, sourcing the active ingredients, needed for making the sanitiser, is a challenge during this period. Availability of standard printed labels for bottling is another hurdle. As the manufacturer of antiseptic liquid Suthol, we were confident that switching to hand sanitiser across all our six assembly lines won’t be tough,” added Dutta. The company’s flagship brand Boroline, launched in 1929 by the current MD’s father and Bengali merchant Gourmohan Dutta, has become the one of the most trusted household brands since the British era. Asked if he plans to make it a permanent feature at his manufacturing plants, Dutta said: “It has already become a mainstream product now and the common people will continue to remain cautious and maintain hygiene, taking lessons from this pandemic. So, the mass use of hand sanitisers is here to stay.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/boroline-maker-to-produce-hand-sanitisers/articleshow/75211713.cms||Sovon Manna
April 18, 2020||Nagpur||Melghat tiger reserve rewards two villages for preventing forest fires||Nagpur: Investing in communities is the best forest fire prevention strategy! Sipna wildlife division of Melghat Tiger Reserve (MTR) has showed the way by rewarding two villages for preventing forest fires.MTR (2,768 sq km) is vulnerable to forest fires and hundreds of hectares of rich forest are devastated in ground fires every year for tendu and other minor forest produce (MFP) collection. MTR’s Sipna wildlife division has an area 839 sq km. Out of this 793 sq km is forest area.Sipna division deputy conservator of forests (DyCF) Dr Sivabala S roped in people of two most forested villages — Raipur and Bhorethyekheda — by motivating them with rewards to prevent forest fires.“We have announced a reward of Rs 1 lakh each to eco-development committee (EDC) of both the villages. From February 15 to April 15, not a single fire incident was reported in the core area. We handed over a cheque of Rs 10,000 as first instalment,” said Sivabala.Sivabala further said, “If no forest fires take place, another instalment of Rs 30,000 will be handed over on May 15. The remaining Rs 60,000 will given at the end of fire season ahead of monsoon.”Welcoming the move, Satpuda Foundation president Kishor Rithe said, “This is a small example to prove that even best of fire suppression measures come second only to prevention in the first place.”“Last fire season, till April 15, 2019, 542 hectares area was devastated in forest fires. This year, it is confined to 9.14 hectares with four incidents only. Still half the crucial fire season is left,” said Sivabala.Similar incentive will be given in buffer zone by rewarding Rs 50,000.“With various steps like monitoring the forest areas by drones, action against illicit grazing and trespassing, attempts are being made to reduce biotic pressure,” Sivabala said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/melghat-tiger-reserve-rewards-two-villages-for-preventing-forest-fires/articleshow/75210534.cms||Vijay Pinjarkar
April 18, 2020||Nagpur||Over 1,000 booked daily for traffic violations||Nagpur: Apart from enforcing lockdown, the cops are using the time to instill some traffic sense among city drivers. Nagpur traffic police led by DCP Vikram Sali, has issued over 30,000 challans to drivers for not just violating the lockdown but also for not following traffic rules. In all, 30,743 challans were issued from March 16 to April 15. This means an average of 1,024 every day. The police are also focusing on helmetless riders and those using mobiles while driving. With less traffic on the roads, violations like using cell phones and riding triple seat are easily noticeable. Over 30% of violators or 10,043 were 2-wheeler riders without helmets, while 1,753 people were penalized for riding triple-seat. A total of 1,376 car drivers were booked for not having seat belts on. Traffic police said such challans were to deter drivers from unnecessarily venturing out during the lockdown. If at all they must, they should follow traffic rules. With roads vacant, drivers tend speed and drive on wrong side of the road. The traffic police nabbed 61 for driving on the wrong side besides 239 for dangerous driving. In March and April , traffic police had booked 30,250 and 38,695 motorists for violating traffic rules. So, even with considerably less traffic, the rate of booking offenders has not gone down. The highest number of 5,633 violators were caught by Sitabuldi zone. It was followed by Cotton Market zone where 4,934 drivers were penalized while Lakadganj zone booked 2,976 people.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/over-1000-booked-daily-for-traffic-violations/articleshow/75210561.cms||---
April 18, 2020||Ahmedabad||Eight arrested for sitting, walking in society garden||Ahmedabad: Most people are confused about whether they can take a stroll or sit in their society gardens during the lockdown. The answer became clear when Airport police station personnel arrested eight persons from the garden of Lilamani Society in Hansol, on Thursday night. According to police officials, five of them were taking a stroll in the garden while three were sitting in the garden violating social distancing rules. The five talking a stroll were booked for violation of Section 144 of the CrPC. “Section 188 of the IPC and the Epidemic Diseases Act were invoked on all of them and all eight were arrested,” said a senior official of Airport police station. According to police sources, when they were on patrol near Lilamani Society at 9.05pm their videographer spotted three persons sitting in the garden. “We saw that the three persons were sitting close to each other violating social distancing rules. We arrested Kamal Bhalwani of River Valley Society in Hansol, Prakash Kevlani and Vinod Thadani of Lilamani Society,” said a police official. About 20 minutes later, the cops saw five persons, Anil Rajpal, Pradeep Aswani, Hemant Hanswani, Vijay Bhulchandani and Surajmal Jain, taking a stroll in the same garden. “They were violating Section 144 of the CrPC which does not allow more than four persons to gather at one place. We also booked them under Section 188 of the IPC and the Epidemic Diseases Act,” a police source said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/eight-arrested-for-sitting-walking-in-society-garden/articleshow/75210742.cms||---
April 18, 2020||Nagpur||Illegal veggie shops at Cotton Mkt razed||Nagpur: The Nagpur Municipal Corporation’s (NMC) enforcement department carried out an anti-encroachment drive at Cotton Market on Friday and razed encroachments by around 35 shops. The drive was carried out by Dhantoli zone anti-encroachment squad led by assistant municipal commissioner Kiran Bagde. Apart from illegal extensions of wholesale potatoes and onions platforms, the squad razed illegal extensions by paan and snack shops too. After the news of NMC’s drive spread, wholesale vendors arrived there and tried to prevent the squad from razing the illegal extensions. They also urged Bagde to stop the drive, but the assistant commissioner refused citing orders from municipal commissioner Tukaram Mundhe. Atul Wakodikar, one of the shopkeepers, expressed anguish over NMC carrying out the drive during lockdown. “Already, Mundhe had closed the market due to Covid-19. The anti-encroachment drive is like adding insult to injury,” he said. Citing overcrowding amid coronavirus scare, Mundhe had shut the market on March 30. Later, the shopkeepers met the civic chief who rejected their demand. Subsequently, a delegation of market traders met mayor Sandip Joshi who had directed the administration to open the market by ensuring social distancing. Still, Mundhe turned down the mayor’s directives. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/illegal-veggie-shops-at-cotton-mkt-razed/articleshow/75210583.cms||---
April 18, 2020||Mumbai||Tribals lynch 3 Mumbai men mistaking them for thieves, attack policemen||MUMBAI: Suspecting them to be robbers, a mob of over 200 tribals from Palghar district on Thursday night lynched three men—including two Hindu priests from Kandivli—as they were headed to Surat in a van to attend a funeral. Armed with sticks, sickles and knives, the tribals also attacked the policemen who tried to stop them, forcing the DSP to fire two rounds to disperse them. Six cops were injured in the incident that took place on the Dabhadi-Khanvel Road in Gadchinchale village of Kasa taluka. Videos of villagers hurling stones at the driver in the overturned van and beating up cops have gone viral. Kasa police on Friday arrested around 100 villagers and booked them under IPC sections 302 for murder, 188 for violation of prohibitory orders as well as under the Epidemic Diseases Act.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/tribals-lynch-3-mumbai-men-mistaking-them-for-thieves-attack-policemen/articleshow/75213803.cms||Sandhya Nair
April 18, 2020||Mumbai||Don’t collect rent for 3 months, Maharashtra housing department advises landlords||MUMBAI: The state housing department on Friday issued a circular asking landlords and home owners to postpone collecting rents from tenants for at least three months due to the lockdown. It also said that during this period no tenant should be evicted by the landlord because of non-payment of rent. As the circular signed by housing secretary Sanjay Kumar went viral on social media, it created a stir among landlords who wondered whether the government had the legal power to enforce it. When TOI contacted a top state bureaucrat, he said: “This is an advisory and cannot be enforced legally. For that, the government will have to change the law. We are only telling everyone, please adjust with one another.” The bureaucrat said the decision to issue the circular was taken by CM Uddhav Thackeray on Thursday following complaints that tenants were being harassed during the lockdown. “The message we want to send out through this circular is please allow breathing time to tenants unable to pay rents during these difficult times,” he added. On the other hand, there are several flat owners whose survival depends on rents. TOI spoke to Sophia Sawant, a widow who lives in Chembur and has rented out her apartment in Tilak Nagar. “My monthly expenses depend on the Rs 39,000 rent I get from this flat. I pay Rs 8,000 a month as maintenance for my Chembur flat. I get very little in hand after taxes. This is my only source of income.” ‘How will landlord pay maintenance, EMI without rent?’Imran Furniturewala, who has leased out a couple of flats, said, “It’s genuinely a sympathetic step by the government. However, landlords too must get some respite. There are expenses to be incurred for three months by landlords too. Eventually, there must be mutual consensus between the licensee and the landlord,” he said, adding several home owners, especially old people, depend on rent. “It is the most stable form of income post-retirement,” he added. A participant in a debate on Facebook argued, “Is there an economic criterion? If the tenant is well-equipped to pay, then why should he not pay?” Another said, “My landlord says he is not agreeable to even delay the rent and wants full payment.” A music teacher complained, “One of my students had to move out very recently since her landlord increased her rent end of March. It is inhuman.” Advocate K K Ramani said even if the landlord were to file a suit for eviction during lockdown, the court would restrain him and take a sympathetic view to protect the tenant. Advocate Vinod Sampat, an expert in housing matters, said the notice will create chaos and litigations. “How does the landlord pay maintenance charges and property tax if the rent is not received? The government has not clarified if a tenant or a licensee is liable to pay interest on delayed payment. If the landlord is paying EMI for the flat, how does he offset it? There are several issues such as these which will crop up and create a rift between the two parties,” he said. (With inputs by Clara Lewis)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/dont-collect-rent-for-3-months-maharashtra-advises-landlords/articleshow/75213862.cms||Nauzer Bharucha
April 18, 2020||Delhi||Delhi: AIIMS admits three-year-old cancer patient after Union minister Harsh Vardhan steps in||NEW DELHI: Gauri Shankar now has a reason to smile. A day after TOI reported about his ordeal in getting his three-year-old son’s cancer treatment done at AIIMS, Delhi, Union health minister Harsh Vardhan on Friday took note, and the premier medical institute readmitted Anshuman in paedatrics day-care. Harsh Vardhan tweeted about Anshuman around 3.30pm. “Status report of Anshuman, 3 yrs,who came to AIIMS Emergency on 18.3.20 & treated till 23rd. Now attending Paedatrics Day Care for Chemotherapy/ Platelet transfusion. Already admitted thrice in Day Care for Platelet transfusion, once for blood transfusion. Now admitted 5th time,” he tweeted. Offers of help pour in for 3-yr-old’s treatment The minister also shared several pictures of Anshuman’s reports and receipts of his readmission. Shankar, from Patna, confirmed that his son was readmitted for platelet transfusion. “I had lost all hope. When the doctors from AIIMS came to find us, I could not believe it. Our biggest problem has been solved,” he told TOI. Following TOI’s article, Twitter was abuzz with requests to the Union health minister to help the boy. Shankar had been running from pillar to post for his son’s treatment at AIIMS Delhi. The hospital, under pressure due to the Coronavirus outbreak, halted the treatment soon after the nationwide lockdown had been announced. The family had been living at a makeshift shelter home outside AIIMS since March 15. On Thursday, Shankar told TOI that he just wanted to get back home. “I can wait on the road forever if it means my son will get better. We have a reason to stay here now,” Shankar said on Friday, Readers also wanted to help patients left in the lurch, unable to access treatment and not being able to return home because of the lockdown. Social activist Yogita Bhayana offered to arrange transportation for 11-year-old patient Diksha, who was being treated for heart ailments. The girl, from Agra, has been living in the same shelter home as Anshuman’s family. Her mother, Seema, and uncle, Ravi, confirmed that they had been offered help to go back to their village. “A car will come and pick us up tomorrow. We also managed to consult a doctor at AIIMS today, and we are waiting to get back home,” Ravi said. Bhayana, who has been trying to help migrant workers get back home, told TOI that she had taken permissions from Uttar Pradesh and Delhi governments to send the family back to their village. “We will arrange a car tomorrow evening,” she said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/delhi-aiims-admits-three-year-old-cancer-patient-after-union-minister-harshvardhan-steps-in/articleshow/75213859.cms||Anam Ajmal
April 18, 2020||Mumbai||Three labourers die while cleaning septic tank in Virar, 1 lands in hospital||MUMBAI: Three labourers died due to asphyxiation and one landed in hospital after inhaling toxic fumes while cleaning the septic tank of a private bungalow in Virar (West) on Friday. The Arnala police have registered an accidental death case and are awaiting the autopsy report to determine if an FIR should be filed against the bungalow owner, Hemant Gharat. Despite the lockdown, the police said, Gharat had hired the four men to clean the sewage tank located behind his bungalow in Ranpada village, in Boling. Around noon, the labourers—Nayan Boye, Jayendra Mukne, Tejas Bhate and Nitesh Mukne, all in their 30s—entered the septic tank, while Gharat supervised the work from outside. The labourers, who were not wearing safety gear, including masks, soon complained of uneasiness.Gharat pulled them out and rushed them to a private hospital, but Boye, Mukne and Bhate were declared dead before admission. The hospital doctors informed the police. Mukne, whose condition is said to be serious, is undergoing treatment at Sanjeevani Hospital in Virar., said a police officer. Like most villages in the Vasai-Virar region, Ranpada village was also locked down to prevent the spread of the coronavirus. It is suspected that as outsiders are not allowed in the area due to the lockdown, the villagers are carrying out repair works by hiring local workers, who may not have enough experience but are willing to work for low wages.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/three-labourers-die-while-cleaning-septic-tank-in-virar-1-lands-in-hospital/articleshow/75213875.cms||Sandhya Nair
April 18, 2020||Visakhapatnam||Andhra Pradesh: Soapnut, tamarind to hit markets soon||VISAKHAPATNAM: Soapnut and tamarind are two of the most extensively sold minor forest products in north coastal AP. Though the two products are sold chiefly by private traders in AP, the Girijan Co-Operative Corporation (GCC) is also a major player. Tamarind and soapnut are usually sold by tribals during the summer and yield rich dividends as minor forest produce (MFP). However this year, the stringent measures imposed due to the threat posed by Covid-19 has ensured that there has been little of the two products to purchase in the markets. According to forest department estimates, the total extent of soapnut and tamarind in the four districts cannot be estimated as they are not grown as plantation crops. However, conservative estimates peg the average yield at 10,000 metric tonnes for tamarind, from just these four districts. The ITDA authorities have conducted a series of talks with traders associations to allow the transport of MFP from the agency and added that more permits would be given, a few days from now. In Vizianagaram district, Parvathipuram division accounts for much of the trade. The district administration has however made it clear that they would provide the much needed permits to transport the produce. "We are witnessing a disciplined approach towards marketing of produce and this is definitely a healthy trend," said M Hari Jawahar Lal, district collector. Lakkavarapu Srinivasa Chetty, one of the major MFP traders in the region, however noted, "The development is good, but the produce will not be transported overnight, we are talking about a few hundred truckloads, moving out of the agency tracts."||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/visakhapatnam/andhra-pradesh-soapnut-tamarind-to-hit-markets-soon/articleshow/75214220.cms||---
April 18, 2020||Ahmedabad||Social distancing: 5 delivery boys held||AHMEDABAD: City police on Friday morning arrested five men — delivery boys of an application based food service, when they were meeting at Venus Crossroads in the Anandnagar area. They were held for violation of lockdown including not maintaining social distance and forming a gathering of four or more persons. A team of Anandnagar police was on patrolling on Friday morning when they spotted the five persons meeting at Venus Crossroads and began questioning them. The men, Bhargav Raval, 25, of South Bopal, Abhilash Vaghela, 27, of Sarkhej, and Mahesh Rokia, 40, Chirag Patel, 28 and Manji Vansh, 33, all residents of Vejalpur, were booked for violation of notification. Inspector S J Baloch of Anandnagar police said all accused work with Swiggy and they were meeting at a point without maintaining social distance. “They work for a food delivery service and they should have understood that if they meet without maintaining social distance, then they may carry and spread the infection to people who receive food parcels,” said Baloch. He said that they should have swiftly gone and delivered the food rather than stopping and meeting their colleagues at one point. Police have booked them under IPC Section 188 for violation of the lockdown notification and began an investigation.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/social-distancing-5-delivery-boys-held/articleshow/75210777.cms||---
April 18, 2020||Vijayawada||11 Of 13 Districts In State Have Been Declared Covid Hotspots By Centre||Vijayawada: With the Union government identifying 11 of the 13 districts in the state as Covid ‘hotspots’ or ‘red zones’, the state government has shifted its focus from detection of cases to containment of the pandemic. According to health officials, the major objective now is to convert red zone districts to orange and then subsequently to green, with the motto ‘restrict the red (zone) and protect the green (zone)’. Officials have identified nearly 90 mandals as red and orange zones in various districts based on the disease incidence in respective areas. Guntur and Kurnool continue to lead with 126 cases each, accounting for nearly 44% of the cases in the state. Kurnool has 15 red zone mandals. Even a month after the state registered its first Covid-19 case, the north-coastal districts of Srikakulam and Vizianagaram remained Covid-19 free as of April 17. Srikakulam and Vizianagaram are the only two districts in the state to find a place in the Union government’s non-infected (green zone) list of districts. Another north-coastal district, Visakhapatnam, has not registered a new case in the last 10 days, while East Godavari reported its last case over a week ago. The state health department has proposed to screen at least 15 lakh people over the next 28 days by augmenting testing capacity and leveraging increased testing modalities validated by the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR). The state has now reached a testing capacity of 3,000 samples a day, up from 90 samples a day in February. The testing strategy mooted by the health department includes using swab-based VRDL tests only for contacts of patients and high risk persons within containment clusters. The Truenat, modified PCR sample system and the chemiluminescent immunoassays IgG and IgM (CLIA) testing will target the population at moderate risk or displaying mild symptoms within the containment zone. Rapid diagnostic testing kits will be used for community screening and high incidence areas. Even if a patient tests positive in Truenat or other testing, it will be confirmed again with a RT-PCR test. Special chief secretary, medical, health and family welfare, KS Jawahar Reddy, said, “Increasing the testing capacity and screening more people will help detect more positive cases. This will in turn help us in demarcation of red zones and hotspot areas.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/11-of-13-districts-in-state-have-been-declared-covid-hotspots-by-centre/articleshow/75209191.cms||Umamaheswara Rao
April 18, 2020||Vijayawada||Now, Nuzvid mangoes to be home delivered||Vijayawada: With the lockdown hampering the transport of Nuzvid mangoes, the officials of horticulture department, with the support farmers producer organizations (FROs), have decided to deliver Nuzvid mangoes to the doorsteps of people in Vijayawada and Guntur.  This service is also likely to be extended to Vizag and other cities soon. In the current situation, buyers are offering between Rs 20,000 and Rs 25,000 for one tonne of mango. Mango farmers say that Rs 30,000-35,000 per tonne would be a remunerative price for their produce. The lockdown has created some some problems in transportation for the farmers and has led to traders not buying the mangoes. Speaking to TOI, Ch Srinivasulu, assistant director of the horticulture department in Nuzvid, said, “In an effort rescue the mango farmers during the lockdown, we will begin door delivery of mango fruits to the apartment residents in Vijayawada and Guntur. The price of a box of one dozen ripened mango fruit is fixed at Rs 250 and Rs 300, depending on the size.” He added: “We are also chalking out plans to extend the door delivery service to Vizag and other cities.” “Asia’s biggest fruit and vegetable mandi at Azadpur in Delhi has reopened and we are in discussion with National Agricultural Cooperative Marketing Federation of India (NAFED) to transport over 23,000 tonnes of mangoes via train. We have also exported five tonnes of mangoes from Nuzvid to a Bengaluru-based firm, who paid Rs 33,000 per tonne to farmers (excluding transport),” Srinivasulu added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/now-nuzvid-mangoes-to-be-home-delivered/articleshow/75209215.cms||Nalla.Babu
April 18, 2020||Vijayawada||Enumerate fishermen within 20 days: Jagan||Amaravati: The state government has directed officials of the fisheries department to complete the enumeration of fishermen eligible for financial assistance during the annual fishing ban within 20 days. Chief minister YS Jaganmohan Reddy directed fisheries minister Mopidevi Venkata Ramana to monitor the process and ensure that eligible fishermen receive the benefit. A sum of Rs 10,000 will be granted to each fisherman as compensation. The first round of compensation was completed in November 2019 even though it was not the period of fishing ban. “We have directed all deputy directors and assistant directors in the districts to be in touch with boatmen associations and get the lists ready immediately,” said Mopidevi Venkata Ramana. Fishermen have been asked to approach local village secretariats for assistance in enrolling their names. After the lists are screened, the compensation will be directly remitted into the bank accounts of beneficiaries, said Mopidevi.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/enumerate-fishermen-within-20-days-jagan/articleshow/75209230.cms||Samdani MN
