April 19, 2020||Bengaluru||#Coronaconcern: Fear of transmission has pet parents abandoning pets||In the initial days of the coronavirus pandemic, not much was known about human-to-animal transmission and vice versa. But as days progressed and reports emerged of felines, both domestic and wild, being infected, presumably from humans, panic set in among pet parents. The Bengaluru chapter of Compassion Unlimited Plus Action (CUPA) has been receiving quite a few anxious calls from pet parents worried about virus transmission. "We’ve got questions as varied as whether dogs can be taken out for walks, or if they could be virus carriers. Some even ask if dogs can cause Covid-19 and precautions to follow," says Sanjana Madappa from CUPA. The situation at Charlies Animal Rescue Centre (CARE) is worse, says Sudha S Narayanan from the organisation. "People want to give away their pets out of fear of contracting the virus from the animal. We have been assuring them that it cannot happen. But then there are those who act on their fears and abandon their dogs by the roadside. We got quite a few calls about abandoned pets spotted in some areas, but since we are a trauma care centre and all available space is reserved for accident cases, we are not in a position to help with this,” she says. Pet parents call shelters to take their pets "Even though the few cases of animals with the coronavirus have been from humans and there is no study supporting it being the other way around, people are just scared. The CARE helpline has received 40 calls since the lockdown asking if we could take in their dogs or cats. We also received 28 emails with similar requests," says Sudha, who recently rescued an abandoned six-year-old female labrador, Honey, near the Veterinary College gate. Pressure from neighbours and societies fuelling abandonment What’s worse is that even if the pet parents are not worried, people around them don’t let them be at peace. “There are neighbours who pressure pet parents into abandoning their pets, for the safety of the area. Add to that apartment complexes that are not allowing people to take their dogs out for walks and you set the stage for abandonment, as pet parents think their pets may just be better off elsewhere," says animal activist and rescuer Toni Freer, from Haven Animal Welfare Trust. Toni gets close to 15 calls in a day to take in abandoned pets. "Shelter homes are the last resort. You can’t just dump your pet because you suddenly decided not to be a pet parent," he adds. Pet parents need to be responsible Urging pet parents to fight for the rights of their pets during these trying times, Toni says, "Pet parents have a responsibility to protect and nurture their pets at all costs and cannot run away from this. Also, the Constitution of India gives every citizen the right to have pets, so don’t dump your dog because someone told you to."||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/coronaconcern-fear-of-transmission-has-pet-parents-abandoning-pets/articleshow/75224861.cms||Joyeeta Chakravorty
April 19, 2020||Goa||The art of abstinence in time of Covid-19||You have seen them in art textbooks, heritage hotel advertisements and glossy travel magazines. Many of us have imagined walking on those empty beaches or exploring the ruins, divorced from human habitation and the messy thrum of daily life. KTC Bus Stand, MapusaWestern Bypass, MargaoCalangute BeachThese empty buildings, monuments, squares and beaches evoke a romance of nothingness, but they also remind us that beauty needs human civilisation. Mapusa MarketEDC Patto Plaza, PanajiChurch Square, PanajiFrom the 16th century Portuguese-era churches to the country’s third longest cable-stayed bridge, from the bustling markets to the nearly 400-year-old Ribandar causeway, TOI's chief photographer Rajtilak Naik captures these historical monuments and places that today stand mute spectators to a global calamity. Ribandar CausewayKTC Bus Stand, PanajiAtal Setu and Twin Mandovi Bridges, PanajiCalangute, Candolim, Sinquerim beach stretchThose famous beaches, that make up for around 110km of Goa’s coastline, where life comes alive among the sun, sand and sea, today lie desolate. These images are haunted and haunting, but in some ways hopeful. Old GoaManohar Parrikar Bypass Road, CanaconaTheir present emptiness, a public health necessity due to Covid-19 which has no politics or religion, also suggests that by staying apart, we have not lost the capacity to come together for the common good.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/the-art-of-abstinence-in-time-of-covid-19/articleshow/75226470.cms||---
April 19, 2020||Goa||AIFF concludes all leagues, champions Mohun Bagan get their due||PANAJI: The football season is officially over. The All India Football Federation’s league committee which met on Saturday recommended to the executive committee that the 2019-20 season be “deemed to be concluded” with Mohun Bagan declared as I-League champions as they “stand atop current standings until the point of suspension (March 14) and enjoy an insurmountable lead,” if all matches were played in normal circumstances. The league committee may have only made a recommendation at this stage, but I-League regulations clearly state that “matters which are not provided for in regulations and cases of force majeure (coronavirus pandemic in this case) shall be decided by the AIFF League Committee, whose decisions are final.” Not surprisingly, since the league is not completed, no team will be relegated to the Second Division I-League, while the prize money – apart from Mohun Bagan’s share – will be given equally to the remaining 10 teams. As champions, Mohun Bagan will pocket Rs 1 crore, while the remaining purse of Rs 1.25 crore for the next three best-placed teams – Rs 60 lakh for runners up, Rs 40 lakh for third place and Rs 25 lakh for fourth – will be shared equally between the remaining 10 teams. Each team will receive Rs 12.5 lakh as their share of the prize money. “This was an easy decision to make. Apart from East Bengal, no club had objection to Mohun Bagan being crowned champions. In fact, East Bengal wanted the league to be declared null and void with the prize money of Rs 2.5 crore shared with all 11 participating teams. “As per regulations, only the top four clubs are eligible for prize money, but it would have been unfair to freeze points position at this moment. If you look at the league standings, except for bottom-placed Indian Arrows, all teams could have made it to the top four, if they played the remaining games,” said one senior AIFF official who attended the meeting. The tougher decision to make was the future of Second Division I-League. All clubs have a sole aim of qualification to the higher league and cancelling the league midway would have hit them hard. The committee said there would be a shorter duration tournament next season for qualification to the I-League (2020-21), subject to approval of the Asian Football Confederation (AFC). “We first need AFC to approve this move. Once that is done, we can work out the nitty-gritty. We could have four or five teams who now had a chance of qualifying for the final phase, or could include all non ISL/I-League reserve sides,” said another official. Whatever decision AIFF takes, Mohammedan Sporting, Garhwal FC, ARA FC and Bengaluru United can continue to push for a place in the I-League.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/aiff-concludes-all-leagues-champions-mohun-bagan-get-their-due/articleshow/75226353.cms||Marcus Mergulhao
April 19, 2020||Mumbai||#LockdownEffect: Mumbai circus troupe calls out for help||While life in the city has come to a standstill with the coronavirus outbreak, there’s one fallout that has gone fairly unnoticed — the state of the city circus. The troupe of the city-based Rambo Circus is grappling with no daily income and is reaching out to people for help. 'We have nowhere to go. The tents on the ground are where we live’For these artistes, the tent and ground are their home The circus, currently stationed in Airoli, is wearing a deserted look with performers sitting around or using the time to practise their skills. Talking to BT, Sujit Dilip, the owner of the circus, says, “The lockdown is necessary, but with no income, it is difficult to manage the daily expenses for food, medicines, electricity, water supply, etc. Besides, we have nowhere to go. The tents on the ground are where we live. This is our home.” The circus has been facing a tough time since the unprecedented rains in 2019. “Most of our equipment got destroyed in it. I sold my home to put up a show in Mumbai and barely managed to cover the losses in the few shows that we did in Malad last year,” adds Sujit. Clowns began the coronavirus awareness drive in FebruaryThe circus troupe kicked off the coronavirus awareness drive a couple of months ago. Informs Sujit, “When we were in Sanpada in February, our clown had a special task, which was to announce and ensure that everyone maintained hygiene and used a sanitiser. We also sanitised the patrons’ chairs with a disinfectant and reduced the seating capacity from 1,000 to only 400 to ensure that there was distance between the chairs.” The troupe has been continuing the practice since. “We are strict about hygiene on the campus ground. Our artistes use masks and maintain social distance even while rehearsing their acts,” adds the circus owner. ‘Kunal Kapoor, Renuka Shahane tried to help’Kunal Kapoor and Renuka Shahane The circus owner took to Facebook to write about his plight. A friend connected them to actor Kunal Kapoor, whose crowdfunding platform is helping raise funds for the troupe. “Mumbaikars like Renuka Shahane also helped us. The city is all heart, most of their childhood memories are associated with the circus, which came to light through their chats on social media,” reveals Sujit. Mumbai's special connect Did you know, the Indian circus began in Mumbai (Churchgate) in 1880? "It was started by Vishnupant Chatre, a riding master in 1880. It went from Maharashtra to Kerala and then spread to India. Our circus is like a travelling vagabond village. Earlier, there were 300 circuses in India, now there are only 16 circuses left," he adds.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/lockdowneffect-mumbai-circus-troupe-calls-out-for-help/articleshow/75226056.cms||Ismat Tahseen
April 19, 2020||India||Truckers body seeks toll suspension on NH, claims small players will be worst hit||NEW DELHI: A major truckers and transporters organization has said soon a large number of trucker owners may not be able to run their vehicles, even for essential commodities, if the government goes ahead with resuming toll collection across NH network from Monday. AIMTC president Kultaran Singh Atwal said, “There is a strong reaction from our transport fraternity on the ground against the resumption of tolling. Majority of the truckers have one to five trucks and they won’t be able to sustain the immediate financial pressure. The suspension of toll is warranted in current hour of crisis.” He claimed that toll expenses is about 16-20% of the operating costs of a truck and in light of poor demand and minimal freights, this burden will be very hard to bear for transporters. The association had pleaded government for extending the toll waiver till October end or till there is complete normalcy. “At present, it may be extended at least till present lockdown period of May 3, to provide some relief to the transporters,” AIMTC said. It said the government is also yet to come out with any relief for the transport sector and is yet to provide safety net to the drivers and co-workers engaged in essential supplies. “Who will be responsible if any driver or co-worker is infected with Coronavirus? Any positive case will further alienate the drivers and they will not come back to work,” Atwal said. Though an inter-ministerial group had recommended announcing insurance or ex-gratia for drivers and helpers engaged in essential supply, the formal announcement has not yet been made. Truckers said they have been waiting for long time. Truckers have also alleged how the government has preferred to fill its coffer by increasing excise duty on petrol and diesel rather than reducing the fuel price despite the crude oil prices are abysmally low.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/truckers-body-seeks-toll-suspension-on-nh-claims-small-players-will-be-worst-hit/articleshow/75227546.cms||Dipak K Dash
April 19, 2020||India||Nod for road, train travel just after May 3 unlikely||NEW DELHI: As the government prepares for lockdown relaxations, the group of ministers under defence minister Rajnath Singh on Saturday suggested resumption of domestic flights in certain ‘safe areas’ after the nationwide shutdown in the wake of Covid-19 pandemic ends on May 3. It said the final call will be taken by the ministries of home and civil aviation after reviewing the status of the virus spread in cities and feedback from states. “There was consensus among the ministers that domestic flights should be resumed in the sectors where Covid-19 cases have not been reported and where there is no threat of spread of the virus,” a government functionary said. However, the ministers were not in favour of any immediate relaxation on inter-state movement by other modes of transport like trains or public and private vehicles even after May 3, sources said. “Any extension of the lockdown period, whether to be done or not, will be decided after taking stock of the situation across the country. However, ministers were of the view that resuming inter-state travel will be highly risky,” an official said adding that there was consensus that trains should not be be run immediately after the lockdown is over. Meanwhile, home minister Amit Shah reviewed the working of MHA’s control room and took stock of the situation in states. Those present at the meeting included the two ministers of state G Kishan Reddy, who had also attended the GoM meeting chaired by Rajnath Singh, and Nityanand Rai besides the home secretary and other ministry officials. The MHA control room is operational 24/7 and is coordinating with states and various ministries to sort out issues relating to implementation of the lockdown. The GoM, chaired by Singh, discussed ways to restart economic activity in non-hotspot areas after April 20, in line with PM Narendra Modi’s announcement. It examined suggestions to re-enlist retired doctors and health professionals to boost medical capabilities on a war footing besides drafting in final year medical students in Covid-19 hotspots. Watch Lockdown: Nod for road, train travel just after May 3 unlikely||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/nod-for-road-train-travel-just-after-may-3-unlikely/articleshow/75227692.cms||Akhilesh Singh
April 19, 2020||Business||Walling off China: India changes FDI policy to block threat of takeovers||NEW DELHI: In a decision fraught with geopolitical and economic ramifications, the government on Saturday amended its foreign direct investment (FDI) policy to put a blanket ban on investments through the automatic route by entities from countries that share a border with India. The move is seen as an attempt to ward off the threat of "opportunistic" Chinese takeover of Indian companies, whose valuations have been badly hit by the coronavirus pandemic. The curbs, which were already in force for investments from Pakistan and Bangladesh, will extend to entities where Chinese citizens have “beneficial ownership” to ensure that the restrictions are not circumvented by routing investments via Hong Kong, Singapore or other countries. Coronavirus pandemic: Live updatesMost FDI flows into India are under the automatic route, which means companies only need to inform authorities after the investment is made. The latest move signals a growing worry within government that China might seek to acquire Indian companies by exploiting their financial vulnerability. The stunning move is in stark contrast to the restraint the Modi government has exercised in not joining the global chorus of indignation over China's attempt to conceal the outbreak of the pandemic in Wuhan -- a lapse that has been widely adjudged to have been a major contributor to the enormity of the public health emergency that has already claimed over 1.5 lakh lives globally and crippled economies and markets. Read AlsoKorean companies keen to move out of China to IndiaChennai: Rising trade war between US &amp; China has pushed South Korean companies to consider moving some of their factories from China to India. The Korean consulate in Chennai has been working with a number of requests, some in preliminary stages, while others advanced stages. “We have requests fromSources in the government said there was a real threat of Chinese entities -- many of the big ones are controlled by the Communist rulers in Beijing through a web of opaque linkages -- moving in to take up Indian companies that were doing well until the pandemic made them relatively cheap and tempting targets. The linkages are why the security establishment here has considered investments from China to be a risk. More on Covid-19Coronavirus pandemic: Complete Coverage21-day lockdown: What will stay open and what won'tHow to quarantine yourself at homeTrust the newspaper for your daily verified newsGovernment sources said while the move has been in the pipeline for a while, Covid-19 helped the government make up its mind expeditiously. The move coincides with similar barriers erected by other countries like Germany, Italy, Spain and Australia to block predatory capital from China. India's decision, however, is different in one vital respect. Unlike in other cases where the filters are aimed at investments in general, the Modi government's decision is specifically targeted at China given that the automatic route was already closed for flows from Pakistan and Bangladesh. The bluntness of the government's decision reflects the seriousness of its worry. Sources said the government had explored the option of putting a general ban on foreign investment through the automatic route, but decided against it due to wariness of being seen as having turned protectionist and insular. Putting FDI from all countries under the approval route would have also slowed down inflows, which are critical at this time. With the threat of Chinese capital moving in appearing serious, the authorities decided to be specific in a turn away from the cautiousness that has defined New Delhi's approach towards Beijing. Sources said that during the deliberations one school of thought had favoured a more nuanced approach, arguing that greenfield investments should be let in, but the leadership decided to go the whole hog. It's time to mask up and stay safe: Join TOI's #MaskIndia campaign The Indian government’s move, cleared by the Union Cabinet, comes days after it emerged that the People’s Bank of China has increased its stake in HDFC Bank, the country’s largest private lender, to over 1%. But while the PBOC investment came through the portfolio investment route, the FDI move is more strategic and is aimed at blocking any attempt to restrict entities from across the border to acquire a significant beneficial interest. Stock market regulator Sebi is separately keeping tabs on investments from China and some other countries. The latest move by the department for promotion of industry and internal trade, the agency responsible for FDI policy, will not just impact new investments but also equity infusion in existing companies in India, where Chinese entities have equity stakes. “While the title of the press note focuses on opportunistic takeovers or acquisitions, this may impact increase in stake or further investment in existing Indian companies from existing investors from the specified countries. It will also impact investment from other countries such as Singapore if the beneficial owner of the investment is from a specified country,” said Vikram Doshi, partner for tax and regulatory issues at consulting firm PwC India. The decision also marks a change in Indian government’s stand in recent years when it courted investments from Chinese companies to counter the widening trade deficit from its neighbour. But all these years, New Delhi has been wary of Chinese companies, often discussing ways to block their presence in strategic sectors and locations. “It is the fear of Chinese domination. The Chinese have already restarted manufacturing when the rest of the world still grappling with coronavirus. China has several months’ advantage over all other major economies and can therefore secure significant benefits. After each crisis in recent years, China has consolidated itself... Indian government is trying to preempt acquisitions. Countries need to strengthen their domestic capabilities to meet the Chinese challenge,” said Biswajit Dhar, a professor at Jawaharlal Nehru University and an expert on trade and investment issues. Watch Govt tweaks FDI policy, stops automatic approval||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/walling-off-china-india-changes-fdi-policy-to-block-threat-of-takeovers/articleshow/75227752.cms||Sidhartha
April 19, 2020||India||Kerala set to open restaurants, start odd-even for cars||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM: From Monday onwards, a semblance of normalcy will return to at least seven of Kerala’s 14 districts as restaurants will open and a limited number of private vehicles under the odd-even scheme be allowed to ply. As the 21-day national lockdown was drawing to a close, the state government had submitted a proposal to the Centre that divided Kerala into four zones — Red, Orange A, Orange B and Green — and restrictions eased in three of these zones in a phased manner. There will be no easing up in the red zone. Coronavirus pandemic: Live updatesThe Centre accepted Kerala’s proposal on Friday. For the past seven days, the number of positive cases in the state was confined to single digit and the recovery rate has climbed steadily. More on Covid-19Coronavirus pandemic: Complete Coverage21-day lockdown: What will stay open and what won'tHow to quarantine yourself at homeTrust the newspaper for your daily verified newsFrom Monday, near-normal life will be back in two districts — Kottayam and Idukki — classified as green zones because they currently have no active cases. Several restrictions will be lifted in Orange B zone districts — Thiruvananthapuram, Alappuzha, Thrissur, Palakkad and Wayanad — too from Monday. Read AlsoHow Kerala managed to flatten the Covid graphAs early as January 18, the state health department issued a Covid-19 alert and began to screen passengers arriving from abroad, initially from China. International arrivals were given a health card in which they had to list their travel details and health condition. Over the next week, it set upDine-in restaurants can function during normal hours in Kottayam and Idukki while in Orange B districts, restaurants can function from 7 am to 7 pm but they have to ensure social distancing norms and hand sanitisers. All those who step out of their homes have been advised to wear masks. Vehicles with odd numbers will be permitted on Mondays, Wednesdays and Fridays, whereas vehicles with even numbers will be allowed on Tuesdays, Thursdays and Saturdays; only critical services and emergency operations would be exempt. Women drivers travelling solo or with dependents are exempted from this restriction. Two passengers can travel in the back seat while for two wheelers pillion-riding is allowed only for a family member. In Ernakulam, Kollam and Pathanamthitta districts, classified as Orange A zones, relaxation for restaurants will come into effect from April 24. Restaurant takeaways will be available till 8 pm. In the green zone districts, other commercial establishments, like textile shops, will be allowed to function. It's time to mask up and stay safe: Join TOI's #MaskIndia campaignSome of the other relaxations include grocery shops opening daily from 7 am to 5 pm and registered plumbers and electricians being allowed to work. Insurance companies, cooperative credit societies and recognised non-banking finance corporations will also be allowed to function with limited staff, while banks and government offices will work normal hours. Some businesses, like opticians, mobile phone shops, computers and accessories, auto workshops, barbershops and bookstores, will be permitted to open twice a week. The dates for these, too, will be April 20 or April 24, depending on the colour zone. State chief Secretary Tom Jose said the state had discussed the zone-wise lockout plan with the Union home and health ministries. "We could convince them that minor modifications in the relaxations granted by the Centre within the broad guideline are required considering the peculiar demography and situation here. Our request had force because of our proper implementation of all earlier guidelines which yielded good results," Tom Jose told TOI. All places of worship and schools, colleges and shopping malls will remain closed across the state till May 3. So too will inter-district travel and Kochi Metro services.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/kerala-set-to-open-restaurants-start-odd-even-for-cars/articleshow/75227893.cms||---
April 19, 2020||India||Covid-19 count crosses 15,000, toll over 500; rise in non-Tablighi Jamaat cases in Delhi||NEW DELHI: The Covid-19 pandemic touched two grim milestones in India, with the total number of cases crossing 15,000 and the death toll going past 500 even as the country recorded its highest single-day rise in numbers at 1,266 on Saturday. While the count of coronavirus cases continues to surge in states such as Maharashtra, Gujarat, Delhi and Rajasthan, the good news is that the infection rate is dipping slightly. It took seven-eight days for cases to double to 15,000, a slower pace than earlier. Worryingly for Delhi, none of the 186 new cases were linked to the Tablighi Jamaat outbreak. While Maharashtra continued to record the highest number of new cases at 328 on Saturday — it’s third-highest single-day number — Gujarat recorded the sharpest spike in cases. A record 280 new cases were reported in the past 24 hours, of which 239 or 85% were registered in Ahmedabad alone. With this, the state’s total count of Covid-19 has reached 1,376. Gujarat also recorded 12 deaths in a day – highest so far – taking the state’s death toll to 53. More on Covid-19Coronavirus pandemic: Complete Coverage21-day lockdown: What will stay open and what won'tHow to quarantine yourself at homeTrust the newspaper for your daily verified newsMaharashtra recorded 11 more deaths. The state’s total coronavirus count now stands at 3,648. Delhi, which had witnessed a dip in cases over the last three days because there were no new positive cases among the Tablighi Jamaat (TJ) evacuated from a mosque in Nizamuddin, recorded 186 new cases, taking the state’s total tally to 1,893. “The increased incidence of Covid-19 in certain pockets of the city, especially the unauthorised colonies that are densely populated, is a matter of concern,” the state authorities said. Only one person from Jahangirpuri in northwest Delhi is believed to have infected as many as 31 family members – the largest cluster of cases that are not linked to the TJ members. “A majority (56%) of Covid-19 cases in Delhi are among persons aged above 60 years. Around 21% of Covid-19 positive cases involve those aged between 50 years and 60 years and 23% are aged below 50 years,” officials said. Covid-19 cases in Madhya Pradesh, where 361 new cases were recorded two days ago, have suddenly dipped. The state surprisingly recorded only 44 new cases on Saturday, and no deaths. In Andhra Pradesh, Covid-19 cases surged past the 600 mark as the state reported 31 fresh positive cases and two more deaths on Saturday. The Covid-19 tally has increased to 603 while the death roll has gone up to 16. Kerala recorded only four more Covid-19 cases. The surge in coronavirus positive cases continued in Telangana with 43 new cases being reported on Saturday. The state’s total tally has now touched 809. Rajasthan reported four more Covid-19 deaths taking the state’s death toll to 21. All the four deceased belonged to Jaipur. So far, Jaipur has reported 11 deaths, including the four deaths on Saturday. In Jharkhand, a 33-year-old man from Trinidad & Tobago islands, who was a part of the 17-member foreigners’ group of the Tablighi Jamaat, tested positive for Covid-19 on Saturday, taking the total number of cases in the state to 33. Bihar’s Covid-19 count touched 86, with a 32-year-old woman testing positive for the disease. Two people have died so far in the state and there are currently 47 active cases and 37 people have been cured. Across India, the rate of recovery has gone up significantly. As on Saturday, the total number of persons who have recovered from the disease has reached 1,998.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/covid-19-count-crosses-15000-toll-over-500-rise-in-non-tablighi-jamaat-cases-in-delhi/articleshow/75227906.cms||Durgesh Nandan Jha
April 19, 2020||India||No case in 47 districts across 23 states in 14 days||NEW DELHI: The health ministry on Saturday said a positive trend was emerging in 23 states due to lockdown and containment measures against Covid-19 outbreak undertaken by the central and state governments. Around 47 districts from 23 states have reported no cases of Covid-19 in the last 14 days. Besides, 22 new districts from 12 states — which had earlier reported some districts with not even a single case for 14 days — have joined the list by not reporting any cases in 14 days led by Covid-19 containment efforts. The government, however, said the battle against the disease was a difficult one and a single case can play the spoilsport. “Our field-level action is yielding positive results. Along with Mahe in Puducherry, Kodagu in Karnataka, too, has not registered any new case in the last 28 days. Besides this, 45 other districts in 23 states have not registered any new case in the last 14 days,” health ministry joint secretary Lav Agarwal said. More on Covid-19Coronavirus pandemic: Complete Coverage21-day lockdown: What will stay open and what won'tHow to quarantine yourself at homeTrust the newspaper for your daily verified newsHe added that three districts — Patna in Bihar, Panipat in Haryana and Nadia in West Bengal — which had earlier not shown any positive cases had registered new cases underlining that even a single case makes a significant difference while dealing with a highly contagious disease. Agarwal added that a total of 1,992 people have been cured of the disease so far, and the overall cure percentage stood at 13.8%. He said 991 new positive cases reported over the last 24 hours had taken the total number of infections to 14,378, including 48 new deaths, which raised the death toll to 480 in the country.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/no-case-in-47-districts-across-23-states-in-14-days/articleshow/75227929.cms||---
April 19, 2020||India||Hydroxychloroquine could have side-effects, suggests new study by ICMR||NEW DELHI: Many healthcare workers who took anti-malaria drug hydroxychloroquine (HCQ) reported side-effects like abdominal pain, nausea and hypoglycemia during a study conducted by the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) to evaluate the efficacy and side-effects of the drug as a prophylactic treatment. “A study has been launched to know the side-effects of HCQ. We found that healthcare workers having an average age of 35 years took these drugs and 10% reported abdominal pain, 6% reported nausea and 1.3% reported hypoglycemia,” ICMR head of epidemiology and communicable diseases Dr R R Gangakhedkar said. He added that around 22% of these healthcare workers also had other conditions like diabetes, cardiovascular diseases and blood pressure and therefore, probably out of fear, took HCQ as a preventive measure. Apart from this, ICMR is also conducting a cohort study to evaluate HCQ’s impact. “We are not doing a trial and we don’t have sufficient evidence base to do a trial. There will be about 480 patients who will be enrolled and it will go on for about 2.5 months,” Dr Gangakhedkar said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/hydroxychloroquine-could-have-side-effects-suggests-new-study-by-icmr/articleshow/75227944.cms||---
April 19, 2020||Business||Movement of people between Ghaziabad & Delhi dropped 90% in 1 month||BENGALURU: How strictly is India following the lockdown? The movement of people from two major satellite towns to cities — Ghaziabad to Delhi and Thane to Mumbai — fell by about 92% and 85%, respectively, over the last one month as the entire country went under lockdown. Data shows that movement across these two corridors — as both Delhi and Mumbai are among the worst-hit metros — has consistently come down from the first week of March as people started getting cautious and companies shut down offices even before the nationwide lockdown was announced on March 25. The data shows movement from the first week of March (March 2-8) pre-lockdown to last week of the first phase lockdown 1.0 (April 6-12). From about 10% of the people in Thane also being seen in Mumbai during the first week of March, the number went down to 1.5% in mid-April, according to aggregated location data from smartphones shared with TOI by San Francisco-based government technology startup Lotadata. This number from Ghaziabad to Delhi went down from 35.2% to 2.9%. It also shows that movement from Mumbai to Thane and Delhi to Ghaziabad also fell by 92% and 94%, respectively. Data from MapmyIndia, a location and mapping services provider to large auto and logistics companies, also saw a 97% fall in vehicle movements between Ghaziabad and Delhi and a 90% fall between Thane and Mumbai from March 4 to April 15, indicating a similar trend. It saw over 80% fall in traffic across the country immediately after the March 25 lockdown, according to CEO Rohan Verma. More on Covid-19Coronavirus pandemic: Complete Coverage21-day lockdown: What will stay open and what won'tHow to quarantine yourself at homeTrust the newspaper for your daily verified newsA recent report on Google Mobility Trends also shows an 80% drop in movement at retail and recreation spots (restaurants, shopping centres), 69% fall at transit stations and 64% fall at workplaces in India between February 29 and April 11. On other visits to grocery and pharma stores, which fell by 65% from 29 to March 29, reversed a bit to 55% by April 11, indicating that visits to stock up are increasing. Lotadata works with “thousands of smartphone apps” across gaming, e-commerce and social networking to gather anonymised data on people’s movement and has been working with city governments in the US, Europe and Singapore. The data does not include personal information like name or mobile number and the insights gathered by the company are aggregated. According to its founder Apurva Kumar, Lotadata has over 50% coverage in Delhi-NCR and Greater Mumbai area, which means that it has data movement half the known population of the specified region at least once a month. For the large majority, it is measured once a week at least, according to Kumar, a Stanford University postgraduate who has worked in Silicon Valley for over two decades, including at Hewlett-Packard. Lotadata has been using data gathered for urban planning like it was working with a European energy utility company on where to set up solar farms. After Covid-19 started spreading, it has provided data to governments in Italy and Spain via its clients in Europe through its initiative called Citydash, which is now sharing data for 12 countries for free. Besides the movement across cities, Lotadata is also analysing micro-movements between neighbourhoods in cities. As an example, public health and law enforcement authorities can easily scan for the anonymised and aggregated presence and movement of people in a hotspot in Delhi and track the dispersion of that cohort through within NCR. This can then be used to prepare authorities on which neighbourhoods to keep a watch and boost healthcare capacity. “There is no need to go about tracing individuals necessarily,” added Kumar, whose startup is governed by Europe’s GDPR and California’s privacy laws. “As the movement control policies have become stricter in India in April, we will continue to measure Greater Mumbai, NCR and all 53 metros, cities and towns.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/movement-of-people-between-ghaziabad-delhi-dropped-90-in-1-month/articleshow/75227947.cms||Madhav Chanchani
April 19, 2020||India||Lockdown is an opportunity. Think of it as a miniature vanaprastha, says Harvard professor Arthur C Brooks||Dr Arthur C Brooks is a Harvard professor, behavioural social scientist and bestselling author who has launched a new column on happiness when we are at our most anxious. In an interview to Shobita Dhar, he shares some simple happiness hacks Do you think the lockdown will make us re-examine the things that make us happy?The lockdown affects different people in different ways. Some are just trying to get through it, others are noticing that the lockdown, while not what we had hoped for, provides opportunities for personal growth. Time has slowed down, insofar as we aren’t expected to travel or run off to work and meetings (at least not in person). A lot of people are telling me that this is giving them a chance to think more deeply about their lives. It is important not to let this opportunity pass. While we are locked down, I recommend that we set time aside each day to think about some of the deeper issues, including the sources of our happiness. Sit in meditation and prayer each day, read more sacred and philosophical texts, and set a goal to understand life better when we emerge from this period. Think of this lockdown as a miniature vanaprastha — a “retiring into the forest.” You make an interesting point that genes play a big role – as much as 50% – in determining how happy we are. Doesn’t that kind of make our efforts to be happy futile?When I first learned that happiness was 50% genetic, I was, ironically, depressed. But that was the wrong reaction. To begin with, this knowledge is powerful for understanding one’s “baseline.” My parents were pretty gloomy, for example — they were intellectuals and artists. Remembering this, I don’t beat myself up so much when I am feeling down. Second, if even just 10% of my happiness is under my control, I should do everything I can to optimise it. The only thing that brings futility is to be a victim — to dismiss happiness as something we can’t understand, and that is completely beyond our control. Even 10% is a gift. You’ve written that in these days of lockdown we can seek happiness from doing meaningful work. Does it include household chores, caregiving, teaching our kids... things that we usually pay to get done so that we can do our professional work? If I am engaging in any activity with a sour attitude, simply trying to dispense with a responsibility, or doing it only for my own personal gain, it is a wasted effort. There is a great Spanish Catholic Saint named Josemária Escrivá, who taught that we should “sanctify our work,” no matter what it is. The way we do it is by dedicating the product to the good of others, doing it to the best of our abilities, and making an effort each day to get better at it. Almost everyone is reporting a rise in anxiety levels during this lockdown. Do the reasons go beyond health and career worries to how much we just miss human contact?I find two main sources of anxiety among people I talk to: uncertainty and loneliness. The first is uncertainty about the future. This is extremely disconcerting for the human mind, which craves certainty so as to help us feel secure and safe. But uncertainty reminds us that we cannot control the future. In fact, all certainty is an illusion. To be fearful about the future is choose to live in a world that does not exist — and thus to be less than fully alive. This is a lesson I learned from a teacher I met in Palakkad named Sri Nochur Venkataraman. He is a devotee of Ramana Maharshi, whose works I love. For those who are fearful, I recommend meditating on this truth: “I do not know what the future will bring. But I do know that am alive and well right now. I will not waste the gift of this day.” Loneliness is very normal, and the discomfort it brings owes to a lack of a neurotransmitter in the brain called oxytocin. This is also known as the “love molecule” which is produced in response to physical touch and eye contact. When we don’t get enough of it — like at the present time — we crave it and are very uncomfortable. A mistake many people make is to binge on social media, which is basically “social junk food.” Research shows that you literally get lonelier when you use it. The reason is that it stimulates almost no oxytocin (no touch, no eye contact). Much better to use technologies that involve face to face contact, such as Zoom, FaceTime, and Skype. Research shows that oxytocin peaks when you hug someone for 22 seconds. So make a house rule: Everyone gets a 22 second hug every two hours. (And when the lockdown is over, keep doing this!) Many people are worried that social distancing will be the new normal.People are not created to be socially distant. We are created for love and closeness. Of course, people will be careful as long as they must. But when it is safe, we will go back to our old, happy ways.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/lockdown-is-an-opportunity-think-of-it-as-a-miniature-vanaprastha-says-harvard-professor-arthur-c-brooks/articleshow/75225414.cms||Shobita Dhar
April 19, 2020||Pune||Pune: Three more with co-morbid conditions die, 47 test positive||PUNE: Three more critically-ill patients diagnosed with the Covid-19 infection succumbed to associated complications at various hospitals in the city on Saturday, taking the contagion casualty count in Pune Metropolitan Region (PMR) to 51 so far. The deceased, who were the residents of Ganj Peth, Kondhwa and main city areas, had some or the other underlying medical condition. Of the total casualties recorded in the PMR so far, 42 took placed at Sassoon hospital alone. The remaining occurred at Poona hospital and KEM hospital, district health officials said. Besides, 47 fresh cases of the infection were registered on Saturday, taking the total number of cases to 612 in PMR. Of them, maximum cases were recorded in the limits of Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) (see box). A total of seven new positive cases were found in PCMC limits on Saturday, taking the case count in the area to 61 so far. The area has recorded one death so far. Most of the cases in the PMC limits are from central Peth areas, Kondhwa, Guruwar Peth, Tadiwala Road, Somwar Peth, Kasba Peth, Wanowrie, Kondhwa and various slums. According to Sassoon hospital authorities, a 75-year-old man from Ganj Peth was admitted in the hospital on April 11. “He was suffering from pulmonary TB. He died in the wee hours of Saturday. He had lower respiratory tract infection,” a doctor from the hospital said. Ramchandra Hankare, PMC’s chief medical officer, said a 58-year-old man succumbed to the contagion late on Friday night at Poona hospital. He had viral pneumonia and dengue. “Another 62-year-old person from Kondhwa had passed away on Thursday. This person’s report tested positive for Covid-19 on Saturday. He died of acute respiratory failure,” Hankare said. Most of those who died at these hospitals were rushed to the hospital when their condition worsened, Pune Collector Naval Kishore Ram said. Many of these victims had delayed in seeking medical care despite having symptoms during the initial phase of illness, he added. According to Pune divisional commissioner Deepak Mhaiskar , a total of 8,188 samples were sent for testing in the division, of which reports of 7,600 were received. He said over 39,33,496 houses had been surveyed covering a population 1.47 crore so far.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/three-more-with-co-morbid-conditions-die-47-test-ve/articleshow/75227576.cms||---
April 19, 2020||Patna||Bihar: One dead, 3 missing as boat capsizes in Ganga||PATNA: One woman died and three persons were missing after a boat carrying 26 people capsized in the Ganga after colliding with the pontoon bridge at 1pm on Saturday. The spot falls under the jurisdiction of Saran district. All those on the boat had gone to Sabbalpur in Saran to bring ration as their ration cards were issued from there only. Some of those who were on the boat were living at Khajekala in Patna City. Patna DM Kumar Ravi said the boat capsized while trying to cross under the pontoon bridge. “The boat was on way from Sabbalpur to Terasia, both in Saran. It was not clear if anyone from Khajekala had boarded the boat,” he said, adding some people on the boat were temporarily living at Khajekala but they originally belonged to Sabbalpur as their ration dealer was there only. SDRF rescued Pinki Devi (50) among others, except the three missing. A survivor, Shiva Kumar, told TOI that they live at Khajekala and had gone to Sabbalpur to bring ration. SDRF inspector Guneshwar Mandal said the deceased woman was identified as Minta Devi (42). Bulaki Rai (40), Jeetan Rai (22) and an unknown woman were missing. “Minta, Pinki, Bulaki and Jeetan have Khajekala address in their Aadhaar cards but their ration cards were issued from Sabbalpur,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/one-dead-3-missing-as-boat-capsizes-in-ganga/articleshow/75225971.cms||Debashish Karmakar
April 19, 2020||Patna||Bihar government offices to reopen from April 20||PATNA: The state government offices would start functioning from April 20 with the rider that all Class I and Class II officials would attend the offices regularly, while only 33% of Class III, lower grade employees and contractual staff would do it on any working day, according to a notification issued by the state general administration department (GAD) on Friday. The rescheduling and rearrangement of the presence/attendance of government officers, employees and other staff has been done in view of the guidelines issued by the Centre on April 15 to combat and contain Covid-19 virus. “It will be applicable during the period of lockdown, as per the guidelines of the Government of India,” additional chief secretary (GAD) Amir Subhani said. Social distancing has to be maintained adhering to the norms defined by the guidelines and the standard operating procedure (SOP). This has to be also observed even on the office premises. Meanwhile, the GAD notification said the decision regarding rescheduling and rearrangement has been taken in tune with the state government’s guidelines issued on April 15. As a follow-up to the same, the state home department had issued the directive the next day, defining the norms to be observed by all the departments and government offices, the notification added. The section officers/incharges concerned would make the internal arrangement regarding rescheduling of the attendance of the staff and also prepare a roster of assistant/typists, personnel, data entry operators, contractual staff and peons. The GAD notification also said orders issued earlier with regard to the attendance of the upper and lower grade typists on March 16 and 18 would remain in force from April 20 to May 5. Incidentally, the offices directly concerned with combating and containing the coronavirus spread had been functioning in a limited way, but the GAD notification has now paved the way for the opening of all the departments, as per the guidelines binding on it.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/govt-offices-to-reopen-from-april-20/articleshow/75225875.cms||Abhay Singh
April 19, 2020||Patna||‘Bihar CM urged Amit Shah to hold back migrants’||PATNA: JD (U) national general secretary K C Tyagi said on Saturday that Bihar CM and party chief Nitish Kumar spoke to Union home minister Amit Shah and requested him to ask all the state governments to take necessary steps to hold back migrant workers and students in their respective states till the end of lockdown. The Yogi Adityanath government had decided to bring back UP students from Kota in Rajasthan through special buses. When asked why JD (U), despite being a BJP ally, was not lodging a formal complaint with the Centre over the Yogi government’s move, Tyagi told TOI, “Nitish ji has already urged the Union home minister to ask all state governments to hold back people and follow the guidelines of the lockdown.” Tyagi said the Bihar government had lodged its protest with the Centre also on March 28 when the UP government sent 2,000 buses to Delhi border to transport migrant workers of UP and Bihar. “Only then the Centre didn’t allow migrant workers to board the buses at Anand Vihar. All those buses returned to UP,” Tyagi claimed. He said the migrant workers, who reached the Bihar-UP border, were allowed entry only after proper screening. “The CMs of Punjab and Haryana also have agreed to Nitish’s appeal that people should stay where they are,” Tyagi said. Earlier in the day, leader of opposition in Bihar assembly Tejashwi Prasad Yadav wrote a letter to Nitish, urging him to make necessary arrangements to bring back Bihari students from Kota on the pattern of UP government’s gesture to its students. Tejashwi also asked the CM to make necessary arrangements to bring back all Bihari migrant workers from other states. “Why Bihar government is so insensitive towards its own people stranded in other states?” Tejashwi asked while accusing the state government of being in the state of “indecisiveness” on the issue. Reacting over Tejashwi’s letter, Tyagi said the RJD leader should first declare his address of writing such letters. “People want to know from where Tejashwi is writing these letters. Where is he?” Tyagi said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/nitish-urged-shah-to-hold-back-migrants/articleshow/75225929.cms||Madan Kumar
April 19, 2020||Trichy||Cops home quarantined in shifts to beat stress||Trichy: Home quarantine is not meant for Covid-19 patients alone as even the city police are keeping one-fourth of the force confined to home for a week before deploying them for law enforcement. The system, which is intended to give a break to police officers and personnel involved in the fight against the coronavirus, has been in force since March 24. There are 1,760 personnel in the city police out of which 300 were kept apart for essential duties and 980 deployed for law enforcement. They were divided into three teams to be deployed in three shifts – 8 am to 2 pm, 2 pm to 10 pm and 10 pm to 8 am. The remaining 480 will be asked to follow home quarantine for seven days. Starting from April 1, two teams went through the quarantine so far, the first from April 1 to 7. They joined duty on April 9 after doctors screened them on April 8 and all of them were seen to have had no symptoms. Another 437 personnel including assistant commissioners, inspectors and constables including home guards were cleared on Tuesday before joining duty on April 16. The team in quarantine from April 15 to 20 will be screened on April 21 while another will be screened on April 28. Commissioner of police V Varadharaju said that quarantine gave the policemen time to relax. “They are screened for symptoms of the viral disease and for lifestyle complaints like diabetes etc. They feel satisfied taking rest at home. Their stress level also comes down,” he told TOI. A team of trained commandos has also been deployed near the isolation ward at Mahatma Gandhi memorial government hospital (MGMGH). They have been provided with personal protective equipment (PPE) kits which they will don if they have to enter the isolation ward to help the health team. The CoP said the city police had stocked up about 300 PPE kits for the policemen. Besides police personnel, 70 NCC volunteers, 72 traffic wardens, 260 home guards and private volunteers were also involved in law enforcement. Unlike previous years, the distribution of lemonade or butter milk to the policemen on field duty was missing in the city due to the Covid outbreak. Yet, the city police provided a pack of biscuits, dates and two 250 ml lemonade to the police once this week.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/cops-home-quarantined-in-shifts-to-beat-stress/articleshow/75227183.cms||---
April 19, 2020||Patna||Bihar to use rapid kits to intensify testing||PATNA: The Bihar government is not only following the guidelines on Covid-19 testing set by the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR), it has gone a step further by conducting the tests on symptomatic, asymptomatic as well as acute respiratory cases. Unlike in Mumbai, where the criteria for testing Covid-19 suspects was tweaked earlier this week to stop the test of asymptomatic contacts then later a circular was issued stating that asymptomatic patients will be tested at the end of 14 day quarantine period, the Bihar government is testing every suspected case irrespective of whether they have any travel history or have come in direct contact with any Covid-19 positive person or not. To intensify testing, the state government plans to use rapid test kits. Sanjay Kumar, principal secretary (health), tweeted on Saturday that the Union ministry of health and family welfare has sent 6,240 rapid test kits. “It’s an antibody-based kit. The department is formulating a comprehensive strategy for its usage,” Sanjay posted. Till now, only the RT-PCR method was being used in Bihar to test for Covid-19 virus. According to the principal secretary, around 75% of people, who have tested positive for Covid-19 in Bihar, are asymptomatic. As per the revised strategy for Covid-19 testing issued by ICMR on April 9, all symptomatic individuals who have undertaken international travel have to be tested and also only symptomatic contacts of laboratory confirmed cases and symptomatic health care workers are to be tested for Covid-19. However, the state health department on March 29 ordered everyone who returned from March 18 onward to be tested whether they were symptomatic or asymptomatic. Also all contacts of positive people in Bihar are being quarantined and tested, whether they are symptomatic or not. This criteria helped the state government in identifying 16 foreign-returned positive persons after March 29 and, 26 of their contacts, who were positive taking total number to 42 out of 85 positive cases in the state. Later, the state health department launched a massive door- to- door screening exercise in four districts and around 8,000 villages across the state to identify Covid- 19 cases. Asha and other health workers are screening people with foreign travel history, influenza like illness (ILI) patients and Severe Acute Respiratory Illness (SARI) patients. Surveyors will visit each household, record the names of all members of the family and names of members living in the house will separately be recorded. The surveyors will also ask the family head about any member having Covid symptoms and such persons will be put on the radar. As per information shared by health department principal secretary, over 12.25 lakh households were surveyed in the first two days and 64.77 lakh people were screened in the exercise. On being asked whether any such instruction was given by ICMR, Sanjay told TOI, “Bihar government took this initiative on its own upon direction from chief minister Nitish Kumar.” Another senior official in health department claimed that this method will also check if there is any community transmission or not. In the first two days of door-to-door survey, 712 people with cough, fever and breathing problem have been identified. Of these, 506 persons have no travel history, while 26 have come from foreign countries and 180 from other states. So far, 413 samples have been collected for test.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/bihar-to-use-rapid-kits-to-intensify-testing/articleshow/75225847.cms||Sheezan Nezami
April 19, 2020||Patna||12 recover from Covid-19 in Siwan district||PATNA: The Siwan district authorities heaved a sigh of relief after the medical reports of 12 of the 29 people earlier tested positive for coronavirus came negative on Saturday. The test reports came a day after a five-member rapid response team from the Centre visited Siwan, one of hotspots for Covid19 pandemic in the state. “A five-member team from the National Centre for Disease Control visited the isolation centres in the district and enquired about the facilities being provided to the patients. The members of the team also talked to some patients,” newly appointed civil surgeon Dr Yadvendu Kumar Sharma said. Sharma added tele-consultancy facility would be started in the district soon on the directive of the state health department. The requisite training to the personnel for the facility is being imparted, he said. Meanwhile, Siwan DM Amit Kumar Pandey said door-to-door screening was being carried out in the district. “No fresh case has been reported from the district in the last couple of days, which is a good sign. Lockdown is being enforced strictly,” he added. The DM said the containment zones in the district have been sealed and strict vigil is maintained. “No laxity on the part of the enforcing agencies will be tolerated,” the DM said, adding drone cameras were being used to watch the activities in the earmarked villages. Meanwhile, no fresh positive case of corona has been reported from neighbouring Gopalganj district, which had earlier reported three positive cases.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/12-recover-from-corona-in-siwan/articleshow/75225959.cms||Ramashankar
April 19, 2020||Patna||Bihar CM: Bringing back students will defeat lockdown purpose||PATNA: CM Nitish Kumar on Saturday ruled out the possibility of making official arrangements to ensure the return of students and others from Kota in Rajasthan or persons similarly placed in other states, as it would make “total mockery” of the nationwide lockdown that has now been extended to May 3 to contain coronavirus. “Now if some people say those trapped at Kota should be brought back to Bihar or should be called back, then it would amount to making total mockery of the lockdown,” the CM said. “Also, if all the states start bringing back their natives trapped outside their respective areas, then it would amount to the same,” he also said, adding: “Our commitment to lockdown is total. The serious maintenance of social distancing and obedience to the norms and guidelines regarding lockdown can be only protection from the coronavirus transmission.” Nitish said this in the backdrop of the UP government sending 300 buses to Kota to bring back their natives trapped there. Earlier, the Gujarat government had also brought back pilgrims trapped in Himachal Pradesh. The CM made the observations at a videoconferencing with top officials of the state, including DMs and SPs. Nitish said the developmental activities like under Jal Jeevan Hariyali campaign and in agriculture and fishery resources departments should be resumed by engaging workers under MGNREGS, including in the renovation and rehabilitation of the ponds of the size of 1 acre and more. He said the wheat procurement drive through PACS should be expedited. He said Rs60 crore and Rs518 crore had been sanctioned for the payment of input subsidy to farmers who had suffered Rabi crop damage in February and March, respectively. The CM said that online teaching facility should be provided to class IX and X students from April 20 for which one-hour slot had also been fixed.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/nitish-bringing-back-students-will-defeat-lockdown-purpose/articleshow/75225907.cms||---
April 19, 2020||Patna||Young couple among 5 killed in Bihar||PATNA: The spate of murders continued unabated in the state even during the lockdown period as at least five people, including a young couple, were killed in separate incidents since Friday night. Villagers found the bodies of Ravi Kumar alias Jhunna Rai (24) and his wife Pooja Devi (20) in a maize field at Kubra Sahmalwa under Harsidhi police station in East Champaran district on Saturday morning. The couple belonged to nearby Kubra Parha Pandit Tola and had gone missing since Thursday night. Pooja was pregnant and Ravi’s father Raj Kishore (47) had been found murdered in his house on Friday morning, Harsidhi police station SHO Shailendra Kumar Singh said. “Prima facie it appeared that the couple was strangled,” he said. An investigating officer said Raj’s 11-year-old son Golu alias Prince was kidnapped and subsequently killed last year. One Manoj Singh, stated to be a close relative of the deceased, is lodged in Motihari central jail in that case. The murder of three members of a family in a span of 24 hours sent shockwaves among the local residents. “There is no survivor in the family. Raj’s two sons and a daughter-in-law have been killed and his wife Rima Devi died of chronic disease a decade ago,” a local resident said. In Patna district, unidentified criminals slit the throat of a shopkeeper after barging inside his shop at Charra village under Naubatpur police station on the intervening night of Friday and Saturday. The deceased was identified as Suresh Sao (65). Naubatpur SHO Samrat Deepak Kumar said why Sao was murdered could not be known yet. “Neither cash nor any other things were taken away from the shop,” he said. In Nalanda, property dealer Rajesh Kumar was shot dead by unidentified miscreants at Sahokhar under Sohsarai police station late on Friday night. However, his body was found on Saturday. Nalanda SP Nilesh Kumar said an FSL team from Patna visited the spot and collected fingerprints and other evidences. “The FSL report is awaited,” he said. The reason behind the incident is yet to be ascertained. Locals said Rajesh also practised law at Biharsharif court in Nalanda district. A report from Samastipur said one Ram Prit Sahni (65) was shot dead at Shambhupatti under Mufassil police station late Friday evening. Three bullets were pumped into Sahni’s body when he had gone to the field to attend the call of nature. Mufassil police station SHO Bikram Acharya said property dispute is stated to be the reason behind murder. He had an altercation with his nephew over a plot of land. “Efforts are on to nab the culprits,” he said. Sahni used to sell sugar cane juice at Pirsthan on Tajpur road. Body fished out, two missing: Meanwhile, a veterinary compounder named Raju Rai (28) and his parents were feared to be killed after being kidnapped from their rented accommodation at Patthar Ghat under Malsalami police station area in Patna City around Friday midnight. Police fished out a body, suspected to be of Raju, from the Ganga on Saturday afternoon. “We are looking for them as Raju’s parents are still traceless,” City SP (east) Jitendra Kumar said. Kumar said the reason behind the incident is either personal enmity with a neighbour or affair with his daughter. “The family is based at Raghopur in Vaishali where Raju works as a veterinary compounder. He had reached Malsalami on Friday night only, when Vijay Rai and his accomplices thrashed the trio after dragging them out of their house and took them towards the riverbank,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/young-couple-among-5-killed-in-state/articleshow/75225997.cms||---
April 19, 2020||Patna||‘Patient attended religious gathering’||PATNA: The Covid patient from Munger, who infected nine others, had returned from a religious gathering at Biharsharif in Nalanda by hiding in a vehicle transporting vegetables on March 31. Munger SP Lipi Singh told TOI over phone that the person had even visited Nepal to attend a similar religious gathering recently. “After Nepal, he went to Forbesganj, Katihar, Biharsharif and Sheikhpura before returning to Munger,” she said. “Altogether 26 of the participants of the Biharsharif gathering were tested and nine of them tested positive for Covid-19. They included his two sons, wife and other relatives. The man is a tailor by profession,” she said. Meanwhile, Sheikhpura DM Inayat Khan said four mosques and surrounding areas where the Covid patient from Munger had stayed, have been sanitised. “As a precautionary measure, samples of 23 persons from the mosques were sent for testing at RMRIMS in Patna. All results were negative,” Khan said. Meanwhile, a senior officer of Araria said 12 persons who had attended the Biharsharif gathering were tested and their results turned out to be negative. “Altogether 142 samples had been collected from Araria and 137 of them were found negative. Results of five samples are awaited,” he said, adding the Munger man had reached Forbesganj around February 24. The state government came to know about the Biharsharif gathering on March 14 and 15 when one of its participants from Nawada tested positive. The gathering was attended by around 640 people. Of them, 300 had been traced in different districts across state while 36 are yet to be tracked. Around 300 of them were from Jharkhand.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/patient-attended-religious-gathering/articleshow/75225947.cms||Debashish Karmakar
April 19, 2020||Patna||Patna Municipal Corporation reaching out to pregnant women||PATNA: Amid lockdown, the Patna Municipal Corporation (PMC) is reaching out to pregnant women and senior citizens in slum areas by providing them ambulance services with technical support from United Nations Populations Fund (UNFPA). Targeted door-to-door supply of contraceptives is also being ensured under a novel scheme, christened ‘WeCare’. Citing an example, Patna municipal commissioner Himanshu Sharma said a young woman from a slum area in Azimabad was provided ambulance service on Saturday. “The woman was finding it difficult to reach the hospital. After her family members contacted us, we arranged an ambulance for her and she finally gave birth to a male child at Patna Medical College and Hospital in the evening,” he said. Another PMC official said the elderly and pregnant women living in the slum areas are the worst-affected. “The civic body has launched ‘WeCare’ initiative especially for the pregnant women. The ‘WeCare’ vehicles are moving in different localities of the city with messages for prevention and cure of Covid-19. In order to create awareness and give socio-psychological counselling to people, two community counsellors have been appointed, who are guiding pregnant women on their health and suggesting them to visit the nearest government hospital.” UNFPA’s India representative Argentina Matavel said, “UNFPA is glad that through the ‘WeCare’ initiative, pregnant women and lactating mothers are getting help. Even as we attend to the pressing needs of Covid-19 patients, we ensure that life-saving services, such as antenatal care and emergency obstetric care are not compromised.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/pmc-reaching-out-to-pregnant-women/articleshow/75225888.cms||Archi Rani
April 19, 2020||Hyderabad||With meagre income, Indian students in Canada struggle to make ends meet||HYDERABAD: Part-time work is drying up in Canada and the worst affected are students, including those who travelled all the way from India. Looking for a good education, these kids are now caught between wanting to stay on in that country and having meagre means to pay their bills. Most students have been ‘temporarily laid off’, but many feel this could become permanent. Telugu-origin Kranthi Bheemanandam, who is pursuing masters at Royal Roads University, Victoria, said his company RGIS Canada had laid off most employees. “We used to go to client location and audit their inventory. Due to the corona crisis, all clients rescheduled the work for a later date. So, no work now. We are thinking this as temporary lay-off, but are not sure how many employees they will take back,” said Bheemanandam. With 800 Canadian dollars (CAD, Canadian dollar= Rs 55 approx) rent a month, Bheemanandam says it will soon be a struggle to make ends meet. Describing what a temporary-lay off means in his case, he said, “No salary. No vacation pay. No sick pay. Since I worked a minimum 700 hours in the last one year, as per the federal government, I am eligible to get my employment insurance (EI) from the government, but that could be as less as around $200 per week.” Deepak Katru, a student at New York Institute of Technology, Vancouver campus, used to work at Seymour Golf and Country Club. “They laid me off temporarily effective from April 12 and paid me a month’s wage. They said they will take me back after this uncertainty ends. If I don’t get help from the government, my tenancy will be affected,” he said. While a lot of students are betting on the huge financial package announced by Canadian government, including Covid-19 Emergency Response Benefit, not all can apply. Explaining the package, Deepak said, “The Covid Emergency Response Benefit covers you if you get laid off from a job. But some restaurants didn’t lay off their employees. They put them on hold. They were asked to stop working and not paid. ”  Indians say grocery bills too were mounting. In Vancouver many Indian stores have increased the prices of products. Students like Manhor Kumari, who is also in Victoria and was also laid off temporarily from a retail outlet, said, “Right now my job is the only concern I have. I am hoping for the best.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/with-meagre-income-indian-students-in-canada-struggle-to-make-ends-meet/articleshow/75227185.cms||---
April 19, 2020||Vadodara||‘Let the dogs out on your staircases, terraces, compounds’||Vadodara: The lockdown is proving to be a tough time for the mute pets, especially the dogs, who are not being able to comprehend why their owners suddenly stopped taking them out for daily walks. Not being able to see their pets’ plight, owners in Banyan City are now giving their pooches the terrace walk or within their own compounds wherever possible. “I walk my pets on the terrace as it is quite big and also allow the children in our neighbourhood to play with them so that they do not feel lonely,” said Frank Lodaya, a businessman living on New Sama Road. Anantha Subramanian, who lives in Subhanpura takes out the dogs early in the morning or late in the evening when the police patrolling eases a little bit. Some dog owners have even complained that with less walking their dogs have become lazy. “I make them walk within the house or in the compound, but due to the limited movement she has become lazier,” complained Akruti Shukla, who had adopted a stray dog, which she had got vaccinated in advance before the announcement of the lockdown. Advocate Jaideep Verma, who owns two dogs, said that they literally let out their dogs to play in the society as much as they want three to four times a day. “The good part is that they are happy that all members are at home and the elder one, an Alsatian, has become very dependent on us,” he said. “Owners should make their pets exercise at home and take their dogs on terrace for walks for a longer period. Some breeds do go into depression when they have to spend longer time inside. The owners, therefore, should spend maximum time with their pets,” advised Dr R D Patel, veterinary doctor.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/let-the-dogs-out-on-your-staircases-terraces-compounds/articleshow/75226568.cms||Jay Pachchigar
April 19, 2020||Patna||Patna University offices to function from Monday||PATNA: All the offices of Patna University (PU) and its constituent units will resume work from Monday. They had been shut after the announcement of nationwide lockdown on March 24 to contain the spread of coronavirus. According to a notification issued by PU on Saturday, wearing masks and maintaining distance will be compulsory for all the officers and staff during their working hours. “Presence of all officers and section officers will be mandatory. However, sections with more than two employees of the same grade will consult the registrar, principals of colleges and directors of institutes and allow them to work on alternate day basis,” the notification stated, adding that the use of handkerchiefs or handmade masks would be appreciated and other precautions taken. PU registrar Manoj Kumar Mishra told this newspaper, “Although all classes and examinations will remain suspended till further orders, teachers will continue to develop e-content and conduct online classes. These activities will also be part of their academic auditing.” On Friday, the chancellor’s secretariat had directed the vice-chancellors (VC) to ensure the presence of all officers, including pro-VCs, registrars, financial advisers, finance officers, at their respective universities. They were also told to initiate disciplinary action against the officers found absent without prior permission.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/pu-offices-to-function-from-tomorrow/articleshow/75225885.cms||B K Mishra
April 19, 2020||Patna||Bihar: Technicians can get passes now||PATNA: The district administration on Saturday started issuing passes to utility service workers like electricians, plumbers, AC and TV mechanics for movement during the lockdown imposed due to Covid-19 pandemic. Authorized technicians with identity cards can commute and provide essential services to the residents without any passes. TOI had raised the problems being faced by residents in getting technicians and workers for utility services. Patna DM Kumar Ravi said all authorized technicians and plumbers are allowed to go on calls just by showing their identity cards. “Those who do not have identity cards are required to fill a form available online as well as offline, where they can apply by filling their names, contact details, addresses, vehicle registration numbers and other credentials,” he said. Ravi said the district administration cannot allow every technician to move in the city. “We have started this additional service after receiving complaints regarding people facing technical issues in their television, airconditioner, cooler and other electrical appliances. However, we cannot give permit to every technician to roam around during the lockdown,” Ravi said. Patna divisional commissioner Sanjay Kumar Agarwal said residents should minimize human interaction as much as possible. “Even though people involved in essential utility services are required quite frequently, people should make sure they call them only if it is very necessary. There’s a reason why lockdown has been imposed. Hence, everybody, including technicians and residents, should take care of the norms,” he said. Agarwal also said plans are afoot to open mobile repair shops. “It is technically not possible to get mobile phones repaired at home. Besides, we have allowed few ‘dhabas’ to remain open,” he said. Electricians, on the other hand, said they are only giving services to people in urgent need. Ravindra Kumar, an electrician in Mithapur area, said he received several calls from residents regarding problems they have been facing in their electronic devices. “I attended only one customer on Saturday as he was in urgent need. Keeping in mind the current situation, I make sure to wear mask and gloves whenever I am not at home. Besides, I maintain distance from customers and ask them to stay at least three feet away,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/technicians-can-get-passes-now/articleshow/75225910.cms||---
April 19, 2020||Varanasi||UP: Lightning kills man, his cow in Bhadohi||VARANASI: Lightning during early Saturday morning claimed lives of a man and his cow in Bhadohi and another man in Varanasi. A total of six persons suffered burns in the two cities. The deceased man in Bhadohi was identified as Sajawal Yadav (52), resident of Chakmandhata under Gopiganj police station. Two brothers of Sajawal—Giriraj and Lalchand suffered burns and are undergoing treatment. On Saturday morning, Sajawal, Giriraj and Lalchand went to the fields with their cattle for grazing. No sooner did they reach the fields than the thunderstorm hit the area and continuous lightning started to occur. Before they could find any refuge, lightning struck Sajawal, his cow and his two brothers. While Sajawal and his cow died on the spot, Giriraj and Lalchand suffered burns. The injured brothers were rushed to the hospital and are currently undergoing treatment. Officials ordered for sending the body of Sajawal and cow for postmortem. The deceased man in Varanasi was identified as Jaghanya Yadav (60), resident of Rasulaha village under Kapsethi police station. Four other family members suffered burns. The family was sitting outside their house together when the lightning occurred.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/varanasi/lightning-kills-man-his-cow-in-bhadohi/articleshow/75225585.cms||---
April 19, 2020||Patna||‘It’ll take decades for economy to recover’||PATNA: Amid apprehensions of major setback to the economy due to Covid-19 pandemic, economist and member secretary of Asian Development Research Institute (ADRI) Shaibal Gupta talks to TOI’s Piyush Tripathi on how people can manage their finances during lockdown and change the pattern of expenditure, savings and investment post lockdown. Excerpts: How should people utilise time during lockdown to manage their personal finances?The current health crisis has highlighted the need to plan for unforeseen circumstances. At the individual level, one must invest in health and life insurances. Also, one should prepare for old-age requirements. All this is important because of the limited social security arrangements by the State. Should one go for more liquidity in hand or more locked-up investments?Locked-up investments come with higher returns and they are used as an instrument to generate income from the savings. On the other hand, liquidity is necessary to handle the unforeseen emergencies. The investments in health insurance reduce the requirements of sitting with surplus cash. Is it advisable for households to invest in the markets during these turbulent times?The kind of volatility that the markets have exhibited during the current crisis has alerted people to stay away from any such investments if they need money to meet their health emergencies. If Investments have to be liquidated during these times, it loses a lot of value. Therefore, the investments in the market may be limited to the savings for long time or for the surplus money which is for wealth creation. Your view on the handling of the current health crisisThe crisis has broken myth of importing the development policy by the countries from the developed capitalist countries. Over the years, narrative was being built that public investment is a bad word for economic growth. It has been nullified by the impact of Covid-19. Public investment in health is much more important now than ever before. Although not the best, the public health machinery has done well in managing the Covid-19 crisis and Bihar is among the best states in the country in handling the current crisis. What is your perception of the condition of national and state’s economy post lockdown? It will take decades for the economy to recover from the impacts of the current crisis. The lockdown in all the business activities across the globe has created an unusual scenario where the path of recovery is full of uncertainties. Much will depend on how things evolve in coming months. The crisis has created a lot of stress on the finances of governments at the Centre and the state. However, a lot is expected from the government to help the individuals and the economy to recover from the crisis. What is your assessment of job losses, especially in the unorganised sector?The current crisis has badly affected the unorganised sector. The sector has been struggling to recover from the jolts it received from demonetisation and introduction of the GST. The biggest challenge in the coming year will be managing rising levels of unemployment. The current lockdown will not only affect the employment generation for the increasing labour force but also affect the ability of the businesses to retain the employees.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/itll-take-decades-for-economy-to-recover/articleshow/75225981.cms||Piyush Tripathi
April 19, 2020||Nagpur||Kukreja to hold Covid-19 review meet on April 20||Nagpur: Nagpur Municipal Corporation’s health committee chairman Virendra Kukreja has called a meeting on April 20 to assess Covid-19 situation in the city. Apart from eight other members of the panel, Kukreja has also invited mayor Sandip Joshi, deputy mayor Manisha Kothe, municipal commissioner Tukaram Mundhe, and additional municipal commissioner Ram Joshi. The meeting will be held at Dr Panjabrao Deshmukh Memorial standing committee hall at NMC’s Civil Lines headquarters from 2pm. As the meeting hall is not very big, it will be a Herculean task to maintain social distancing among corporators and senior NMC officials. The meet will discuss review NMC’s preparedness to fight Covid-19, spraying of disinfectants across the city, positive and suspected patients of coronavirus, cleaning of city, big and small nullahs etc. It will also discuss outsiders quarantined at various institutions. Sources said that the corporators from across the city expressed anguish over civic administration’s move to ignore them while carrying out disinfecting drives in their respective prabhags. The health department will also submit a proposal of giving approval to the minutes of last meeting held on January 31 this year.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/kukreja-to-hold-covid-19-review-meet-on-april-20/articleshow/75227188.cms||---
April 19, 2020||Nagpur||Pregnant woman among 4 new positives, Satranjipura case count increases to 31||Nagpur: Four more persons from the city, including a 23-year-old pregnant woman, tested positive for Covid-19 on Saturday taking the number of cases in district to 63. The pregnant woman is the first such case in Vidarbha. Out of the four new patients, three are close contacts of 68-year-old deceased (city’s first Covid-19 victim) from Satranjipura. Now, the total number of cases in connection with the Satranjipura deceased have increased to 31, which is 49.2% of total cases of the district. The highest number of positive cases (38) linked to a single person have been reported from Jawaharpur, Mohali district in Punjab.Zonal medical officer of Nagpur Municipal Corporation (NMC) Satranjipura zone Dr Minakshi Mane told TOI that one of the patients is 29-year-old husband of the pregnant woman. “Their entire family was examined and quarantined as they reside adjacent to the house of deceased,” she said.As per NMC officials and close relatives, the woman is eight-month pregnant. The woman, her husband, along with their two-year-old child and other family members were under institutional quarantine at MLA Hostel.The NMC team have admitted the couple at Government Medical College and Hospital (GMCH) while their child and other family members are at MLA Hostel.The third person to test positive is relative of the nephew of the Satranjipura deceased. The two are residents of Bairagipura. The nephew, who runs a tours and travels business, had tested positive few days ago. The NMC will also trace and quarantine close contacts of the nephew’s relative on Sunday. While many more samples of the close contacts of Satranjipura deceased are awaited, the NMC team traced and quarantined one more person from the area who was reportedly untraceable for last one week. On Saturday, the NMC launched containment drive in Shanti Nagar from where a 40-year-old person had tested positive on Friday. He was already quarantined at MLA Hostel. The NMC has traced and quarantined few close contacts of this person. Satranjipura deceased’s daughter-in-law, her six months kid, daughter along with three children were residing in the 40-year-old person’s house. Containment zone was notified with boundaries as Shanti Nagar ghat chowk, Mudliyar chowk and Shanti Nagar Universal chowk. This is the six containment zone in the city.The fourth positive person detected on Saturday is a resident of Chudi Gully, Mominpura. Zonal medical officer of NMC Gandhibagh zone Dr Kwaja Moinuddin told TOI, “The person was traced and quarantined in connection with Tablighi Jamaats (TJs) of Jabalpur who were tested positive few days ago. The person was taking care of food and other requirements of these TJs,” he said.Eight Jabalpur-based TJs arrived in the city on March 17 and were at Lal Building up to March 18. They moved to Jama Masjid on March 18 and shifted to Darul Falah, Takia Deewanshah, Mominpura, on March 22.Seven of the eight TJs tested positive on April 12 and 13. The cap seller, who was the first person from Mominpura to test positive on April 4, resides three homes away from Darul Falah. The son of the cap seller’s landlord had also tested positive.NMC team traced and quarantined family members of the 42-year-old person on Saturday. The NMC has asked few from Jama Masjid and Darul Falah to come to institutional quarantine on Sunday.Now, positive cases from Mominpura have increased to 10, which is 15.87% of total cases in district. Satranjipura and Mominpura cases contribute 65.07% of total cases from the district.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/pregnant-woman-among-4-new-positives-satranjipura-case-count-increases-to-31/articleshow/75227198.cms||Anjaya Anparthi
April 19, 2020||Kochi||Virtual classrooms fail to connect with college-goers||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM: The audiovisual platform established by the Additional Skill Acquisition Programme (ASAP), under the state higher education department, has come in handy for universities and colleges in the state that are webcasting classes for students during the lockdown period. However, student participation has been low, which is a trend authorities hope to change in due course. Arts and science colleges under various universities, polytechnic colleges under directorate of technical education and engineering colleges under APJ Abdul Kalam Technological university launched online classes through the ASAP platform on April 16. “Classes are offered for a duration of one hour on selected subjects in every discipline. They run from 8.30am to 9.30pm. Students can watch the lectures live on www.skillparkkerala.in/online-classes/ and they can clear their doubts in real time,” said K P Jaikiran, head, curriculum development, ASAP. A quick analysis of three days of viewership data available with ASAP shows that engineering students use the facility the most. Arts and commerce subjects attracted the least number of participants. However, academicians see a silver lining. Student participation would naturally increase once the system starts functioning well, they say. “Lockdown demands academics to change their mode of teaching and switch to redesign courses for online delivery,” says Kerala state higher education council vice chairperson Rajan Gurukkal. “Those who are experience with online teaching tools are proactive in helping colleagues adapt their courses,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/virtual-classrooms-fail-to-connect-with-college-goers/articleshow/75229095.cms||B S Anilkumar
April 19, 2020||Goa||Goa: Iron ore-laden trucks rumble through Quepem, Curchorem||QUEPEM: The heavy movement of iron ore laden trucks from two mines at Cavrem-Pirla and Colomba-Rivona through Quepem and Curchorem towns amidst the lockdown has irked villagers along the route, as they alleged flouting of central guidelines by the lease holders. The operations started on this route from Friday and scores of trucks have been passing through both towns, raising dust and causing noise pollution amidst the lockdown silence, say residents. Anti-mining activist Ravindra Velip alleged that around 150 trucks carrying ore were plying on the streets, per hour. Quepem DySP Kiran Poduwal said that the mines department had issued instructions to the mine owners, to only operate 25-30 trucks per hour on the road. Poduwal said this was disclosed to him by the representatives of mining companies when he called a meeting with them at Curchorem police station last week. Quepem police and Quepem traffic cell issued more than 72 challans to mining trucks for various violations and other four wheelers at Quepem town and Tilamol junction on Saturday. The DySP said it is the duty of the mines department to keep a check on the number of trucks playing per hour. Save for a few vehicles, the roads have been largely deserted since the lockdown was enforced over three weeks ago. Taxis and motorcycle pilots have suspended their business, while industries have been also shut down, villagers said. “Everyone is facing hardships due to the lockdown, but why is preference only given to mining trucks? Does the ore come under essential commodities? This is injustice to other small scale industries,” said Christanand Pednekar, a social activist. “I am not against mining, but the government should first construct a mining corridor and not allow the trucks to ply through populated areas, posing risk to citizens visiting shops to buy, fish, vegetables, grocery and medicines,” said Pednekar.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/iron-ore-laden-trucks-rumble-through-quepem-curchorem/articleshow/75227583.cms||Johnny M
April 19, 2020||Varanasi||Garuda drone replaces manpower to sanitize corona hotspots in city||Varanasi: The Garuda drone replaced the risky manual sanitisation of the coronavirus hotspot in Madanpura locality of Varanasi on Sunday. The petrol fuelled Garuda drone containing pesticides sanitised heavily populated areas of Madanpura. It was monitored from Godowlia by the divisional commissioner Deepak Agrawal. “After Madanpura, this sanitisation drone will also be used to disinfect hotspots of Bajardiha, Lohta, Nakkhighat and Gangapur,” said Agrawal. As per the contract signed between the Chennai-based aerospace company from where the drone was purchased, Varanasi Municipal Corporation and Varanasi Smart City Limited, this drone was introduced in view of the topography of localities. “It has also enabled the VMC to reduce deployment of manpower available with it and utilise it in other areas which are comparatively safer for humans ,” said Agrawal. “Sanitisation through drone will take place between 8 am and 6 pm daily,” he added. Municipal commissioner Gaurang Rathi said, after covering the hotspots, the drone would also sanitize buffer areas, shelter homes, quarantine centres, isolation wards and even the safe localities of the city. For this task, a team of seven persons including pilots are assigned by the agency. Through this cost-effective project, the hotspots and buffer zones will undergo sanitisation twice a day.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/varanasi/garuda-drone-replaces-manpower-to-sanitize-corona-hotspots-in-city/articleshow/75225621.cms||---
April 19, 2020||Trichy||He goes around quenching the thirst of Covid warriors||Trichy: As the summer is settin in and mercury levels climbing upwards to 40C, people working out in the sultry weather such as police and sanitary workers during the lockdown are vulnerable to dehydration. To keep them hydrated, S Manikandan, 30, has been going around the city on his moped distributing drinking water free of cost.Manikandan, a diploma holder and entrepreneur running a home service start-up, steps out of his house in Ariyamangalam around 7am with a 20 litre water can and gives policemen guarding containment zones and crucial checkpoints drinking water. The water cans are sponsored by his friend R Prabakar. “Although police personnel have water bottles, many of them would have exhausted it due to the sultry weather. I reach out to them and refill their water bottles,” Manikandan added. He also carries an empty water bottle and disposable glasses to serve sanitary workers he comes across. He has been completely exhausting 4-5 bubble top water cans every day. Apart from water, he spends Rs 500- Rs 600 every day to but bread loafs from a wholesale bakery unit near his house and distributes it to cops and around 20-25 homeless people. He covers an area of 5km radius from his house including Crawford, Kattur, Thiruverumbur and Ponmalai with the help of his volunteer pass issued by the authorities till noon. “Several volunteers are providing lunch for the homeless people but breakfast for those who make roads their home is rare. So, I provide them bread packets in the morning,” Manikandan said. He added that he will continue the service every day till the lockdown is lifted.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/he-goes-around-quenching-the-thirst-of-covid-warriors/articleshow/75227189.cms||Deepak Karthik
April 19, 2020||Varanasi||Screening in buffer zones, hotspots to finish by Apr 21||Varanasi: In a bid to fast track the screening in Nakkhighat, the new hotspot, and the five buffers zones, the administration has entrusted the task to the 45 ward flu clinics for screening the total population of 23,000 on priority. The district administration’s decision to dedicate the ward flu clinics in the buffer zones has halted the process of screening of people in 90 wards while this process will go unaffected in rural areas. The number of hotspots in the district after Nakkhighat area being declared one on Friday increased to five. District magistrate Kaushal Raj Sharma told TOI on Saturday, “The creation of buffer zones around declared four hotspots and addition of Nakkhighat had amplified the screening exercise. The population in five buffer zones and Nakkhighat is estimated around 23,000. It was decided to dedicate all 45 ward flu clinics that were set up to examine the symptomatic and those suffering from diabetes, cardiac problems, hypertension, cold and cough in 90 wards of city.” “We have set the target to complete the screening of people in new hotspot and five buffer zones by April 21, after which these clinics will restart screening people in 90 wards. The 30 teams engaged in rural areas of eight blocks have not been disturbed hence screening in villages will continue,” the DM said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/varanasi/screening-in-buffer-zones-hotspots-to-finish-by-apr-21/articleshow/75225609.cms||---
April 19, 2020||Mysuru||Lockdown pushes tribals to go back to roots, literally in Mysuru||MYSURU: The Covid-19 outbreak has changed the menu of tribals in Mysuru district during the lockdown, which has cut off food supplies to them. This has pushed them to go back to their traditional food — tubers, various wild leafy vegetables, and wild fruits collected from forests. With no PDS supplies coming to their haadis (hamlets) ever since the lockdown was imposed, the tribals have taken to traditional way of searching food under the ground in and around forest areas. Vijaykumar, leader of Budakattu Krishikara Sangha in HD Kote, told TOI that tribals are visiting forest areas to find tubers, leafy vegetables and fruits. “This is because, they are not getting ration from the government. Even though they are getting enough food, this cannot be a solution because of the wild animals. Forest staff will arrest them,” he said. Tribal leaders have appealed to local political party functionaries, the deputy commissioner and the officers concerned to restore ration supplies at the earliest. Vijaykumar said that there are many tribals who have not got ration cards from the government. “They are being deprived of benefits extended by the government. As they are starving, the government must provide food to all families in haadis,” he said. S Srikanth, director of Hunsur-based NGO DEED (Development through Education), also endorsed Vijaykumar’s concerns. There are 122 haadis in HD Kote taluk, 38 in Hunsur taluk, 32 in Periyapatna taluk and 5 in Nanjangud taluk coming under Bandipur and Nagarahole tiger reserves. A majority of families here are relying on the food collected from forest areas.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mysuru/lockdown-pushes-tribals-to-go-back-to-roots-literally/articleshow/75226352.cms||Lakshmikantha BK
April 19, 2020||Thiruvananthapuram||Virtual classrooms fail to connect with college-goers||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM: The audiovisual platform established by the Additional Skill Acquisition Programme (ASAP), under the state higher education department, has come in handy for universities and colleges in the state that are webcasting classes for students during the lockdown period. However, student participation has been low, which is a trend authorities hope to change in due course. Arts and science colleges under various universities, polytechnic colleges under directorate of technical education and engineering colleges under APJ Abdul Kalam Technological university launched online classes through the ASAP platform on April 16. “Classes are offered for a duration of one hour on selected subjects in every discipline. They run from 8.30am to 9.30pm. Students can watch the lectures live on www.skillparkkerala.in/online-classes/ and they can clear their doubts in real time,” said K P Jaikiran, head, curriculum development, ASAP. A quick analysis of three days of viewership data available with ASAP shows that engineering students use the facility the most. Arts and commerce subjects attracted the least number of participants. However, academicians see a silver lining. Student participation would naturally increase once the system starts functioning well, they say. “Lockdown demands academics to change their mode of teaching and switch to redesign courses for online delivery,” says Kerala state higher education council vice chairperson Rajan Gurukkal. “Those who are experience with online teaching tools are proactive in helping colleagues adapt their courses,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/thiruvananthapuram/virtual-classrooms-fail-to-connect-with-college-goers/articleshow/75226371.cms||B S Anilkumar
April 19, 2020||Pune||Constable & wife found infected with contagion||Pune: A police constable and his wife were admitted to the Yashwantrao Chavan Memorial Hospital in Pimpri on Friday night after they both tested positive for Covid-19. The constable is posted with a police station located in the heart of the city and many areas in its jurisdiction have high number of positive cases. On Saturday, five constables who had come in contact with the infected police constable were sent to an institutional quarantine facility. A senior police officer told TOI that the medical and police authorities have collected swab samples of all constables and officers of the police station for further analysis. “At present, the constable admitted in the hospital is the only positive case from the police station. We are waiting for the test reports,” the officer said. However, it is not yet known how the constable was infected despite taking all the necessary precautions. “He was on bandobast duty and developed some symptoms, so we told him to get hospitalized. We are not sure how he came in contact with a positive person. It was also possible that his wife must have come in contact with a positive person,” the officer said. Joint police commissioner Ravindra Shisve said the police will track down the people who came in contact with the constable and his wife. Meanwhile, the swab tests of the policemen from another suburban police station have been received by the police. All the reports stated that the policemen had tested negative for the contagion and were normal.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/constable-wife-found-infected-with-contagion/articleshow/75227581.cms||---
April 19, 2020||Madurai||9 new cases take south TN count to 314||Madurai: With nine new cases, the total number of Covid-19 positive cases in the southern region went up to 314 on Saturday. Meanwhile, 1,000 rapid testing kits arrived in Madurai and sample testing was conducted. Three cases in Dindigul, two in Tirunelveli and four in Tenkasi were reported on Saturday. As many as 30 patients who tested negative in consecutive tests as per protocol were also discharged from the hospitals. They included eight from Madurai, 18 from Theni and four from Tirunelveli. This took the total number of people discharged from the Government Rajaji Hospital in Madurai to 22 till date. Meanwhile, the rapid testing kits which were received by the state government were sent to the districts on Saturday. Sample testing was done in the urban primary health centre (PHC) in Anna Nagar in the presence of district collector T G Vinay. Later, speaking to reporters, Vinay said the 1,000 kits would be used to test contacts of people who had tested positive previously and health workers who are conducting screening activities in the containment zones and police personnel on duty in these zones, as per instructions from the ICMR and ministry of health and family welfare. Results of rapid testing kits will be available in just 15 minutes. The collector also said that meat stalls would not be open in the district on Sunday and action would be taken against anyone violating these orders.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/9-new-cases-take-south-tn-count-to-314/articleshow/75227578.cms||---
April 19, 2020||Hyderabad||Mother & son booked for brewing wine||Hyderabad: A mother-son duo was booked on Saturday by Rachakonda police for brewing grape wine at home to sell it to acquaintances . The accused were identified as Polisetty Sudhakar (38), president of the residential association of Church colony in Ramanthapur, and his mother, Terehamma (63). Around 30 litres of home-made alcohol was seized. “After a tip-off from a neighbour, we raided the house and found they have been storing over 30 kg of grapes dipped in sugar for the past 20 days to make wine. They were planning to use it at home and sell it to others,” said Uppal, sub-inspector, SK Mybelly. Two empty ten litre tins were also seized from their possession. They were booked under Section 188 of Indian Penal Code and relevant section of Telangana Excise Act.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/mother-son-booked-for-brewing-wine/articleshow/75227191.cms||---
April 19, 2020||Dehradun||PIL alleges health workers given faulty PPE kits, HC directs CMO, Haldwani medical college to probe claims||NAINITAL: Responding to a Public Interest Litigation (PIL) that alleged that doctors and health workers fighting the novel Coronavirus pandemic are being provided faulty Personal Protective Equipment (PPE) kits, which is posing a threat to their lives, the Uttarakhand high court (HC) on Saturday directed the Chief Medical Officer (CMO) of Nainital as well as principal of Dr Susheela Tiwari Government Medical College to find out the ground realities and file a reply. The order read, "As there is a particular averment regarding proper Personal Protective Equipment (PPE) not being provided in Nainital and Dr Susheela Tiwari Government Medical Hospital, Haldwani, we direct the chief medical officer, Nainital and the principal of Dr Susheela Tiwari Government Medical College to apprise this court with the ground realities and the availability of PPE with them." The HC has given both the CMO and the principal of the medical college time till April 21 to file their replies when the case will be heard next. Three separate PILs had been filed in the Uttarakhand high court related to Covid-19. While two of them highlight the lack of PPE kits available with health workers, the third points to the problems faced by the farmers due to the lockdown. While hearing the PIL that highlighted the problems faced by farmers due to the breakdown of supply chain and unavailability of agricultural labour due to the ongoing lockdown, the HC directed the state government to consider increasing the working hours for the procurement of wheat at purchase centers. "The state government may consider increasing the working hours for the procurement of wheat at the purchase centres and if possible increase the number of purchase centres, if not already done," the court said.  The bench of Justice Sudhanshu Dhulia and Justice Ravindra Maithani heard the PILs through video conferencing. The court has now directed that the two PIls concerning the security of the health staff will be heard along with other petitions that deal with the same issue while the matter related to the problems of the state’s farmers will be dealt with separately.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/pil-alleges-health-workers-given-faulty-ppe-kits-hc-directs-cmo-haldwani-med-col-to-probe-claims/articleshow/75226344.cms||Prashant Jha
April 19, 2020||Goa||Church offers diocesan schools to be used as quarantine facilities||Panaji: The archdiocese of Goa and Daman has offered its educational institutions to set up quarantine facilities for stranded Goans returning from overseas. In a letter to CM Pramod Sawant, archbishop Filipe Neri Ferrao highlighted the fact that Goans are working in distant lands and seas for the sake of their livelihoods, and they dispatch their savings to families back in Goa, thus supporting the state economy. The state is the primary custodian of the rights of citizens and shouldact with urgency to evacuate Goans stranded abroad, considering the growing anxiety of their families in Goa.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/church-offers-diocesan-schools-to-be-used-as-quarantine-facilities/articleshow/75227589.cms||---
April 19, 2020||Mysuru||Seven more test positive, 9 discharged in Mysuru||MYSURU: Nine patients were cured and discharged from hospital while seven others tested positive for Covid-19 in Mysuru on Saturday. With this, the total number of active cases stands at 58 in the district, two down from Friday’s figure of 60. Of the seven fresh positive cases, one is a 65-year-old villager having Severe Acute Respiratory Illness/Infection (SARI) while the other six are related to the employees of the pharmaceutical firm in Nanjangud. Deputy commissioner Abhiram G Sankar said contact-tracing is underway and all the primary contacts of the 65-year-old will be quarantined. The villager from Mosambaiahanahalli in Mysuru taluk has been admitted to covid hospital after he showed symptoms of Covid. He had visited Jayadeva hospital for a test and later complained of chest pain and difficulty in breathing but was referred to government-run KR Hospital. Since authorities were taking all SARI cases seriously, throat swabs were collected for examination. The result has come positive and it has increased the fear among residents. An official told TOI that the villager had met four-five staffers at Jayadeva Hospital on KRS Road before he came to KR Hospital. All these workers have to be identified and quarantined as a precaution. Even his primary contacts, mostly family members, friends and relatives with whom he has been in contact since a week, will be quarantined. Villagers panic-strickenAfter the villager from Mosambaiahanahalli was tested for covid, the residents are panic-stricken. An employee from the village told TOI that the village has nearly 1,200 people and they travel to various places for work. The hospitalised sexagenarian has been suffering from leg injury for the past two weeks after a boulder slipped on his leg during work. He had visited PHC in Varuna village and also KR hospital for treatment. Two days ago, he fell sick with respiratory infection. “Police and district authorities visited our village and have asked us to take precaution by staying indoors. Residents are really unnerved,” he said. A landlord said many people in the village are agricultural labourers and travel to villages and urban areas for work and it is really a matter of concern. Meanwhile, among the nine patients who were cured of the virus on Saturday, three were Tablighi Jamaat visitors and six were pharmaceutical firm employees and their contacts. One positive case in MandyaOne more person tested postive for Covid-19 in Mandya on Saturday, taking the number of cases in the district to 12. The new patient attended the Tablighi Jamaat event in Delhi. His throat swab confirmed he has Covid-19. He has been shifted to the isolation ward in Mandya Institue of Medical Sciences.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mysuru/seven-more-test-positive-9-discharged-in-mysuru/articleshow/75225442.cms||Lawrence Milton
April 19, 2020||Nagpur||Maharashtra: Cap seller booked, quarantined again for violations||NAGPUR: In less than a day after being discharged from Government Medical College and Hospital (GMCH), the 32-year-old cap seller, first positive patient of Covid-19 from Mominpura, was booked and quarantined agained at MLA Hostel for alleged violation of Covid-19 guidelines and spreading wrong information. GMCH dean Dr Sajal Mitra also assured of an inquiry as the cap seller was discharged at 10pm despite discharge being not permissible after 9pm and also without providing an ambulance. He is city’s first positive case who has been taken under institutional quarantine and booked after discharge. Municipal commissioner Tukaram Mundhe told TOI, “We saw posts, pictures and videos of cap seller on Saturday. He was seen with others without wearing mask. He can ben seen in a group sitting in a room and giving interview on social media. Also, he gave wrong information on media. It was mandatory for him to be in home quarantine for 14 days after discharge. He violated guidelines and also gave wrong information. Therefore, we lodged a complaint with police. The person was traced and quarantined at MLA Hostel and will be there for next 14 days,” he said. In some cases patients have tested positive a few days after being discharged. Therefore, it is mandatory for them to stay in home quarantine for 14 days. Following a complaint from NMC assistant commissioner Ashok Patil, Tehsil police station registered an offence against the cap seller under Section 188 (disobedience to public servant), Section 270 (malignant act likely to spread infection of disease dangerous to life), 51 (b) of National Disaster Management Act and Section 3 of Epidemic Diseases Act. A person connected with cap seller posted, “Mominpura Nagpur’s first coronavirus patient who was termed positive has turned negative.” Interview posted on social media too was in such context. TOI is having record of all posts, pictures and videos. In one of the pictures, he along with two more persons on two bikes are posing for a picture without having a mask on a public road. In one video, he spoke using ear phones that were later used by others in the same room for giving their comments. Before the cap seller, 11 positive persons from the city had got discharged. All were provided ambulance to reach their homes. At around 11pm, the cap seller walked out of GMCH all by himself, gave an interview for social media and boarded the bike. Norms say he should have been provided ambulance by GMCH. This is done to ensure patient lands directly at home and stays in home quarantine for next 14 days. None of the above instructions were followed by GMCH. Norms also say any patient cannot be discharged after 9pm. He was handed over discharge letter having time 10.02pm. He came out around 11pm. This has put GMCH in a fix. Sources in the GMCH told TOI, “The patient was eager to go home as soon as he received the negative report. Patient and his colleagues pressured the doctors at the GMCH and asked for early discharge,” sources said. Dr Mitra said, “Entire matter will be investigated. We will conduct an inquiry,” he said. On April 14, Shanti Nagar police had booked nephew of Satranjipura deceased who was first positive patient to be booked for giving wrong information to NMC, spreading disease and violating norms.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/cap-seller-booked-quarantined-again-for-violations/articleshow/75227204.cms||Anjaya Anparthi
April 19, 2020||Dehradun||Former BSP legislator Sarwat Karim Ansari booked||ROORKEE: Former BSP legislator from Manglaur Sarwat Karim Ansari was booked by police on Saturday after he forcefully tried to enter a mosque to offer Friday prayers. When mosque staff stopped them, the former legislator and his men thrashed them. Police have booked Ansari and almost a dozen of his supporters for rioting and violating lockdown. Haridwar SSP Senthil Avoodai K Raj S said, "In the present situation, we cannot tolerate any act that is a threat to the lockdown".||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/former-bsp-mla-booked/articleshow/75226386.cms||Tapan Susheel
April 19, 2020||Allahabad||This seer sees ‘hatha yoga’ as cure for corona||Prayagraj: One might have come across saints and seers performing ‘hatha yoga’ during Kumbh, Ardh Kumbh or Magh Mela but the sangam--- the confluence of Ganga, Yamuna and mythological Saraswati-- is still witnessing the ‘hatha yoga’ ( wired practice) of Shrikant Tyagi Maharaj , popularly known as Tyagi Baba. Associated with Vaishnav Akhara, the 65- year-old saint is practising hatha yoga on a 20 feet scaffold (machan) to please Hindu gods and deities with an aim to eradicate the deadly Covid-19 virus from the world. Derived from the Hindi word ‘Hatha’, meaning resolve or pledge, the practice is common in the Hindu tradition. Tyagi Baba, who has been camping on the scaffold for the past 32 days, has made it clear that he would be continuing his ‘hatha yoga and puja till the pandemic gets eradicated from the globe. “I want the welfare of the world and for that I have been praying to Lord Shiva, Lord Hanuman, Lord Beni Madhav and Lord Sun to give blessings to the people of the country and the world so that the people could come out from the shadow of Covid-19 virus” said Tyagi baba. Sitting precariously on a wooden block suspended with sticks, the baba is also using a mask to tell people about its utility. He, however, said it is part of a ‘hatha yoga’ practised by him over the past few days. The Baba rarely talks to anyone and continues his ‘ jaap’ ( puja) to complete mantra and ‘shlokas’. Tyagi Baba is said to be staying on the banks of Ganga for the past 35 years. He also blows conch and plays ‘damaru’ to generate positiveness which would be helpful to eradicate the deadly disease from the world.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/allahabad/this-seer-sees-hatha-yoga-as-cure-for-corona/articleshow/75225642.cms||---
April 19, 2020||Chennai||Rapid test kits in use out in the field||Chennai: The directorate of public health has distributed the much awaited rapid antibody testing kits for screening of patients with influenza-like illness in hotspots in Chennai, Salem and Coimbatore. The results are being put together at Covid-19 control room, while at the back office, senior officials are re-evaluating orders placed for three lakh kits, so they can rework the price and reconsider the number of kits required. On Saturday, after Chhattisgarh health minister T S Singh Deo tweeted that his state was procuring more than 75,000 rapid testing kits at Rs 337+ GST from a South Korean firm, opposition parties and activists said TN paid Rs 600 for each kit. The state, which planned to test all people with symptoms of influenza-like illness, placed orders in instalments. Orders for the first batch of 50,000 kits were placed with Chinese company Wondfo at Rs 600 a kit on April 3, a day after ICMR’s nod. The orders were placed through Kodambakkam-based Shan Biotech and Diagnostics. “At that time, seven companies were cleared by the ICMR which fixed the price. On April 6, we ordered another 50,000 kits from the same manufacturer. On April 16, more companies were added and pricing became competitive. There were tax waivers from the government,” Tamil Nadu Medical Services Corporation (TNMSC) managing director Dr P Umanath told reporters. “We have the kits in our hands while others don’t.” The state now has 24,000 rapid testing kits from China and 12,000 from the Centre. The TNMSC is talking to vendors to revise pricing and is also studying if so many kits are required. The state initially said it would test one with influenza-like illness with the rapid test before sending him/her for RT-PCR tests. On Friday, the ICMR said rapid antibody test was needed only in hotspots for surveillance and not as a diagnostic tool. In hotspots, RT-PCR test is used on people showing symptoms for less than week; antibody test on those showing symptoms for more than a week. “People testing positive for the infection in the rapid test will be subjected to RT-PCR test for confirmation,” said director of public health Dr K Kolandasamy. National Institute of Epidemiology resources will also be used for random tests to check for community transmission. While NIE may use the kits in “hot” and “cold” spots to study prevalence of the disease, a doctor said no one in a hotspot will wait for seven days after onset of symptoms. “We will use PCR tests on everyone. So many rapid kits may not be required.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/rapid-test-kits-in-use-out-in-the-field/articleshow/75227591.cms||---
April 19, 2020||Pune||Positive Sassoon doctor’s contacts in quarantine||Pune: About 10 professional contacts and family members of the coronavirus positive chest physician from the Sassoon General Hospital have been quarantined since the case came to the fore on Wednesday. Sassoon hospital dean Murlidhar Tambe said, “The high risk contacts of the physician (52) have been identified. All those with symptoms have been told to get tested immediately. High-risk contacts not displaying any symptoms have been told to isolate themselves.” He said the high-risk asymptomatic contacts will be tested after a few days. President of the Indian Medical Association, Maharashtra, Avinash Bhondwe told TOI that 212 doctors from across the state were either infected and admitted or in quarantine. “Some of the infected doctors have a private practice, while most others were treating Covid-19 patients. Nurses are also contracting the infection. If things continue this way, it will be a major blow for us,” he said. Bhondwe said there were four reasons why doctors were catching the virus. “There is an unavailability of standardized personal protective equipment for doctors. So, in desperation, doctors are using sub-standard PPE. Then till recently, there was no proper separation between Covid and non-Covid hospitals which led to greater cross-infection. Lastly, infection control at hospitals treating Covid-19 patients is not up to the mark,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/positive-sassoon-doctors-contacts-in-quarantine/articleshow/75227593.cms||Rujuta Parekh
April 19, 2020||Nashik||Containment zones drawn up for every 2-3 wards in city||Kolhapur: The civic administration is going to seal two to three wards and mark them as containment zones to curb the spread of Covid-19 and ensure the effective implementation of the lockdown. Usually, containment zones are drawn up in the localities or areas surrounding a locality from where a confirmed Covid-19 positive case has been reported. However, the Kolhapur Municipal Corporation (KMC) does not want to take chances and has already started marking the containment zones for some wards from Saturday. There are total 81 wards in the city. District collector Daulat Desai has given orders to every town in the district to mark containment zones and seal them completely. While one zone will be chalked out for each village, larger villages will have two zones. Municipal commissioner Mallinath Kalshetti said, “All the containment zones will be sealed. No one will be allowed to move from one zone to another unless there is a medical emergency or health facilities are located in another zone. We are making arrangements to ensure all the essentials are available in each zone.” “We have formed local committees under the corporator of each ward to look after the needs of the residents. The corporators will have to monitor the new zones till the lockdown is lifted,” said Kalshetti.Mangalwar Peth and Kasba Bawda areas were completely sealed after confirmed positive cases were reported from these two localities. People were asked to stay indoors for a stipulated number of days to complete the screenings. Vijay Shinde, a resident of Kasba Bawda said, “We were under complete lockdown for three days after a positive case was reported from our area. The administration should ensure the locals do not impose mandatory closure of grocery shops and vegetable markets. It should also ensure that supply of essentials like cooking gas cylinders is regularised.”Authorities from the civic administration said that residents could move out of the wards when they needed to buy essentials. “Residents should be given a fair idea about the markings of the containment zone so that they can plan accordingly while going to buy essentials,” said Shinde. Officials said that such containment clusters have been marked in cities like Pune, where there are a higher number of positive cases. However, the civic body has to be extra cautious as citizens prefer to visit retail malls to buy essentials and currently, there are very few stores operating in different parts of the city.A senior civic official said that all such factors, along with vehicles of which essential goods should be allowed to pass through different zones, were being taken into account while chalking out the containment zone. The civic administration will seek the help of the local committees while granting permission to citizens to travel from one zone to another. Desai has strictly directed to the KMC to ensure people going to other zones for genuine reason should not be obstructed.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/containment-zones-drawn-up-for-every-2-3-wards-in-city/articleshow/75227213.cms||---
April 19, 2020||Allahabad||Prayagraj: Can’t go to an ATM? Get cash at home||PRAYAGRAJ: If you are stuck at home during the lockdown and don’t want to go to an ATM amidst the Coivd-19 outbreak, you can fulfil your requirement for cash by getting the money delivered at your doorstep. India Post Payments Bank, a subsidiary of department of posts, is delivering cash up to Rs 10,000 at Prayagraj residents’ doorsteps. Requests for cash deliveries has increased ever since the nationwide lockdown was enforced. “With this facility, people wouldn’t have to queue up at ATM booths, post offices or banks to withdraw cash and at the same time they can will remain safe from novel coronavirus,” said, director of posts Sanjay D Akhade. For availing this facility, a person need not have an account with IPPB or a post office. One only needs to have their bank accounts linked with their Aadhaar and mobile number to avail the facilty. “People can get a maximum of Rs 10,000 delivered at their doorstep. The postal staff will observe all safety measures like wearing masks while delivering the money,” Akhade added. Although the service was launched last year, cash up to Rs 50 lakh has been disbursed to customers since the lockdown was enforced on March 24.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/allahabad/cant-go-to-an-atm-get-cash-at-home/articleshow/75225688.cms||---
April 19, 2020||Kolkata||Cops crack down in Howrah pockets||HOWRAH: Four police station areas in Howrah came under strict surveillance from Saturday after CM Mamata Banerjee expressed concerns over the status of the contagion in certain pockets. Police arrangements in areas under Golabari, Howrah, Shibpur and Malipanchghora police stations were unprecedented as pockets were barricaded and movement of vehicles was halted, except those with permits and valid papers to show urgency. The areas woke up to repeated announcements on loudspeakers, asking people not to step out of home unless absolutely necessary. Drone surveillance was on to keep an eye on crowding. The pictures were manned at the commissionerate and information was relayed to the police stations. A total of 342 arrests were made, of which 28 were identified through drone surveillance. Fifteen four-wheelers, one auto and 70 two-wheelers were seized. A large part of Salkia on both sides of GT Road, Pilkhana, Chowrasta, Jaiswal More, Bandhaghat up to the mouth of the fork leading to Howrah bridge, Howrah Maidan, Foreshore Road, Kazipara, Kalibabur Bazar have all come under the “highly sensitive” demarcation of the police. Howrah Police commissionerate has been given additional manpower by the state secretariat so that it can ensure that no one flouts the lockdown. Most of the crowded markets in these areas are being controlled by police. “Though we are keeping an eye on the bazars, the best option is to keep people indoors and take the vegetables to their homes. So we have procured a large number of cycle vans and attached them to the green grocers.,” said police commissioner Kunal Agarwal. On Saturday, a meeting was held between city police bosses and nine business bodies. They have been told to adopt nine major markets, sanitize them, provide food to daily wage earners, distribute masks and gloves and ensure that green grocers take to distribution through trolleys.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/cops-crack-down-in-howrah-pockets/articleshow/75227216.cms||Jhimli Mukherjee Pandey
April 19, 2020||Chennai||Industries seek govt support to resume activity from April 20||CHENNAI: The industrial bodies in the state on Saturday sought the support of the state and central governments to revive industrial activity in the state with relaxation of lockdown norms on April 20. This was conveyed in the meeting various trade and industrial bodies had with the finance secretary-led expert committee. The state government, however, indicated that there would not be any relaxation from the guidelines put out by the Union home ministry. In the backdrop of spurt in Covid-19 cases, there could be further restrictions wherever applicable, the government representatives headed by finance secretary S Krishnan said in the meeting. The government also appointed four more members to the committee, including representatives of Tamil Nadu Small and Tiny Industries Association (TANSTIA) and Confederation of Real Estate Developers’ Association of India (Credai). Epidemiologist and member of the committee, P Kuganantham said all industries should have medical officer and nurse as per factory rules. The CII has demanded free inter-state and intra-state movement of trucks for movement of essential commodities from April 20 onwards. “Guest workers who continue to stay in the state should be permitted to work in whichever industry they like. Since availing passes from the district administration is getting delayed, we want the government to give e-passes to the employees of various industries,” CII Tamil Nadu vice-chairman, S Chandra Kumar said. The meeting deliberated the concerns raised by representatives of various sectors like auto, textile, leather, gems and jewellery, MSME, finance and logistics. TANSTIA suggested that lockdown be restricted to zonal or ward level instead of district level, to permit normal activity in unaffected areas. “All industrial estates should be allowed to resume activities,” TANSTIA joint secretary S Vasudevan said. Workers should be allowed to travel in their own vehicles, he suggested. Credai representatives said they would screen all workers before deploying them for work. At work place, the workers would follow social distancing norms. Credai has sought permission from government to permit 33% of office staff to attend duty. They were crucial in coordinating with workers at the construction sites and various government departments, Credai said. “We will have CCTV surveillance for proper monitoring of social distancing norms at our sites,” Credai Tamil Nadu chairman S Sridharan said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/industries-seek-govt-support-to-resume-activity-from-apr-20/articleshow/75227597.cms||---
April 19, 2020||Nagpur||MLA Ravi Rana suffers heat stroke, hospitalized||Amravati: After suffering a sun stroke while distributing foodgrains to the poor, Badnera MLA Ravi Rana was admitted to a private hospital. Meanwhile, his wife, MP Navneet Rana’s throat swabs have been taken and sent for testing.According to the MP, her husband suffered a sun stroke while distributing foodgrains, groceries, other essentials and sanitizers to the poor during lockdown. “My husband (Ravi Rana) was at home since Wednesday. He was in pain. I contacted the civil surgeon, Dr Shyamsunder Nikam, and informed him about his health. The team of Radiant Hospital checked my husband, who had high fever, and decided to admit him,” said Navneet.Rana has been kept in the ward which is on the fourth floor where doctors Anand Kakani, Sikandar Advani, Pawan Agrawal and their team are monitoring him. The entire floor has been vacated and sanitized. A team from Superspeciality hospital took throat swabs of the Ranas and sent them for testing. Apart from the X-ray, blood and urine samples have also been taken. His sonography will be done on Sunday, said sources.The Ranas, who returned from Delhi on March 21, had self quarantined themselves for three days as they had come in contact with MP Dushyant Singh, who had attended a party thrown by Bollywood singer Kanika Kapoor, who tested positive for Covid-19.Collector Shailesh Naval has ruled out the possibility of the Ranas as possible covid suspects. He said their travel history or their Covid- positive contacts are yet to be established.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/mla-ravi-rana-suffers-heat-stroke-hospitalized/articleshow/75227211.cms||---
April 19, 2020||Kolkata||Locals’ prejudice: Health workers at receiving end||Kolkata: As the coronavirus pandemic spreads on either side of the Hooghly, dozens of professionals — doctors and nurses — continue to face alleged discrimination at the hands of landlords and neighbours who are asking them to vacate their rented homes for being in “close contact with Covid-19 positive patients”. In Kolkata, a final-year MS general surgery student, who had rented a flat in an upscale Kasba apartment for the lockdown period, was hounded by neighbours who ganged up barely hours after she checked into the house on Friday morning. At Behala Thakurpukur, at least a couple of healthcare professionals reported to cops about mounting pressure from landlords to vacate their homes after reports that a patient at a nearby hospital had developed Covid-like symptoms. In Howrah, while one nurse of a cancer hospital was locked out of her rented hostel accomodation, forcing her to take shelter at the hospital, two others were locked inside their room by neighbours, who demanded that they move out immediately. Both instances were reported from the Botanic Garden area and were resolved only after police intervention. In the Kasba incident, the doctor said: “I moved into the flat on Rajdanga Main Road around 9.30am. Around 1pm, the watchman — Pashupati — informed me that over 30 people from the locality had gathered near the main gates. The police, too, were there. The officer proceeded to take my statement and document my information even as a bank official residing there begun clicking my photographs without my consent. Next, they went on to say unkind things about my seeming disregard for public health and safety. They began telling me that I was exposing others to Covid-19 at the expense of saving my parents. The officer was helpful though and suggested that I go to a local testing centre and get myself tested for Covid-19. He said I could carry on living there if the test came negative. “I did not see this as a solution, given how a test takes at least 24-48 hours to yield a result. I have never withheld any information about being a doctor, albeit not engaged in active duty, and the fact that I have not been exposed to a Covid-positive patient. I didn’t want to stay at home with my family to keep them safe because social distancing just isn’t possible in the same house.” The flat ownwer — Satyendranath Basu (70) and his two daughters, who are presently resising in Salt Lake — spiritedly tried to ensure her safe stay after contacting their neighbours and appealing to their “conscience”. Meanwhile, housekeeping staff of the Howrah hospital were stopped from returning to their houses at Sankrail and Malpur on Thursday where even the panchayat members asked them not to return till the Covid scare was over. “I was told in front of a large crowd that I was a carrier of Covid-19 and that I was a threat for the landlord and his family,” recalled the sister who was shown the door at her hostel last week.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/locals-prejudice-health-workers-at-receiving-end/articleshow/75227209.cms||Dwaipayan Ghosh
April 19, 2020||Allahabad||Bhrigu Samhita lessons to help boost immunity||Prayagraj: The live session, based on ancient Vedic knowledge of‘Bhrigu Samhita (Yoga Bhrahma Chinta Pranaali) was carried out in over half a dozen countries of the world on Friday and Saturday. The session was undertaken by Varanasi-based meditation guru. The sessions were held to help people learn the skill of boosting their immunity at a time when the globe is facing Covid-19 pandemic. Around 150 participants practised the meditation and yogic practices through live streaming on Friday evening (5:30-6:30pm) and on Saturday (7:30-8:30am). “Participants from countries like Italy, Israel, Poland, Russia, Australia, apart from many different cities of our own countr,y joined the sessions” ,said Jayent Bhadury, the meditation guru, whose family possess over 40,000 ancient manuscripts, including the only original copy of Bhrigu Samhita which contains texts on yoga and meditation. Another beautiful aspect of the event was that all of them were connected to one energised field of consciousness—a phenomenon which has been scientifically proven and shown in the movie titled The 1 Field— that helped boost immunity of each one of us, he explained. Several participants from various countries have given their reactions on their facebook page. Ewa Baiala from Poland writes, ‘I meditate every day in the lockdown period of, but this time it was much deeper as it gave me a beautiful feeling of connection with others and the power of energy which spread high and protected the whole earth, I am very grateful for this”’.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/allahabad/bhrigu-samhita-lessons-to-help-boost-immunity/articleshow/75225676.cms||---
April 19, 2020||Nagpur||City entrepreneur distributes organic sanitary pads at shelter homes, slums||Nagpur: Amidst the Covid-19 pandemic, many helping hands are coming forward to distribute food and other essential goods, but sanitary pads, one of the most essential commodities for women, has sadly not caught the attention of anyone. Kshitij Jane, founder of Lexie, the city’s first organic and eco-friendly pad provider, with the help of funds raised from citizens, has distributed over 1,500 sanitary napkins to women and girls at shelter homes across the city.All these pads are organic, and comfortable to wear, which is an added benefit to the act of kindness. “Initially, when the lockdown was imposed, we all saw it coming. We also knew somehow that essentials will be traded and supplied no matter what, because we all had to survive. There were a number of organizations and brave individuals who started the donation drive to feed the homeless and daily wage migrants. But we were shocked that no one talked about sanitary pads being a necessity,” said Jane.Smriti Irani, Union textile minister, had also came forward to mention that sanitary pads are also an essential commodity for survival. “Being a social enterprise, we knew what we had to do. We acted quickly and started with online fundraisers so that we could donate the pads with the support of people. We got the support, and also help of other NGOs, who were already helping the needy,” added Jane.Most of the pads were distributed in slums, as the situation of women there was the worst. Without this help, they often go back to using the traditional unclean method of using rags and cloth pads during periods.Sanitary pads were also donated to some shelter homes. Until now over 1,500 pads have been ditsributed, which have benefited 250 females. The reaction of these young girls and women in slum areas and shelter homes was priceless after receiving the pads, which are still a luxury for many, Jane said.“Some of them literally had tears in their eyes. We understood the true meaning of essential commodity when it reached the people who are in despair and needed it the most. We were successful in bringing some sunshine in the gloomy days of those with almost no savings and no hopes,” he said.Even as lakhs of people who survive on daily wagesbasis are suffering, the plight of the women and girls in these families is unimaginable due to pandemic. Jane has exorted all citizens to donate so that these wives and daughters of daily wage workers or migrants stuck at shelter homes get pads. One can be a part of this initiative by donating on the UPI ID ‘Lexie@kotak’.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/city-entrepreneur-distributes-organic-sanitary-pads-at-shelter-homes-slums/articleshow/75227218.cms||Shreya Tinkhede
April 19, 2020||Trichy||Trichy: Eateries taking breakfast, dinner orders too||TRICHY: Several restaurants in the city are gradually resuming their business after being closed for weeks since the lockdown began. Although they will be dependant on online food delivery aggregators, restaurants that were serving only lunch will now cater to breakfast and dinner takeaway orders. Since March 24, most of the eateries except for those operating with minimal staff near the railway junction, Central bus stand and Woraiyur have remained shut. Citing low public movement and absence of workers, the restaurants suspended their operations. For the last few days since April 15, eateries in Thillai Nagar and Sasthri road gradually returned to business after the lockdown was extended till May 3. “For about a week, we were only serving lunch. But after the lockdown was extended, we launched breakfast and dinner options as takeaway,” the owner of an eatery near Thillai Nagar said. The move was aimed at generating a moderate revenue to meet expenses including paying wages. The eateries added that physical distancing is practised while serving takeaway food. A section of eateries in Melapudur said they are regularly getting lunch orders from government departments, thus helping them sustain their business during the lockdown. As Trichy Corporation has planned to implement the curfew pass system from April 20 to restrict movement, the eateries are banking on online food delivery aggregators. Sources in the online food delivery aggregators said that they are running with minimal delivery boys, covering only core parts of the city such as Karumandapam, Thillai Nagar and Chathiram bus stand. Similarly, bakeries in the city that resumed operations from April 14 have launched their own door-delivery option to receive orders via phone. Food entrepreneurs said that their delivery boys have been told to wear facemasks and hand gloves besides being cautious while delivering food to their customers.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/eateries-taking-breakfast-dinner-orders-too/articleshow/75227223.cms||Deepak Karthik
April 19, 2020||Trichy||Stone idol recovered from river||Trichy: A two-feet tall stone idol was recovered from the Koolaiyar river in Poovalur village near Lalgudi town in the district on Friday. Locals found the idol while taking a dip in the river. Villagers found that stone idol, weighing 25kg, was that of Karupannaswamy, a village deity. On information, revenue officials and Lalgudi police rushed to the spot. Revenue officials moved the idol safely to the Lalgudi taluk office.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/stone-idol-recovered-from-river/articleshow/75227215.cms||---
April 19, 2020||Nagpur||17-yr-old is sixth Covid-19 case in Amravati; Vidarbha at 119||Nagpur: A 17-year-old son of a deceased auto-driver in Amravati tested positive for Covid-19 on Saturday taking the total number of cases in Amravati to six, including one death on April 2. The total number of Covid-19 cases in Vidarbha also went up to 119, with 22 of them getting discharged and four deaths. Apart from Amravati and Nagpur, no new case was found in Vidarbha on Saturday. Four patients were discharged in Yavatmal after full recovery. The 57-year-old auto driver from Noorani square locality in Hyderpura in Amravati was a heart patient and died at home two days ago. Health department team of Amravati Municipal Corporation could not take his throat swab or tissue swab for "technical reasons", sources said. “AMC team came to know about death of the auto driver late. By the team it reached the deceased’s home for collecting the swab, the saliva in the throat had dried up,” said a highly placed source. AMC team could not even take a tissue swab as it had no equipment to do so. The source however said that throat swabs of the four members of the deceased's family were taken and sent for testing. One of the four reports came around 12.30 last night in which this 17-year-old boy tested positive. Reports of other three members are still awaited. The administration is now checking the medical history of the deceased who was stated to be a heart patient by doctors of a private hospital where he had taken treatment. The family of the deceased, which was home quarantined earlier, has now been admitted to the Covid-19 hospital. The administration has decided to put members of a family where any death occurs for any reason into institutional quarantine until their swab reports come negative. Six discharged from Yavatmal: Yavatmal looks set to come out of red zone as four out 10 positive patients were discharged from GMC isolation ward on Saturday. All of them have been asked to remain in home quarantine for next 14 days. Now, total number of patients discharged in Vidarbha region is 23. District collector of Yavatmal M D Singh said that six patients in GMCH were also improving. “Only one is critical, but he too is stable,” said Singh. Washim patient positive again: The only Covid-19 patient in Washim, who had tested negative in the seventh day report, was tested positive in 14th day report on Saturday. Due to this, his hospital stay has increased for another six days. Now, doctors will collect swab sample of this 65-year-old patient on 20th day.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/17-yr-old-is-sixth-covid-19-case-in-amravati-vidarbha-at-119/articleshow/75227225.cms||---
April 19, 2020||Madurai||Daily parcel service extended till Nagercoil||Madurai: Southern Railway has announced the extension of the Thiruvananthapuram – Kozhikode – Thiruvananthapuram daily parcel special service till Nagercoil from April 19 to May 3.Train no. 00655: Nagercoil – 6.30am; Thiruvananthapuram – 7.50/8am; Kollam – 9.15/9.25am; Kottayam – 11.30/11.40am; Ernakulam Town – 12.50/1pm; Aluva – 1.25/1.35pm; Thrissur – 2.35/2.45pm; Shoranur – 3.30/3.40pm; Tirur – 4.40/4.50pm; Kozhikode – 6pm .Train no. 00656: Kozhikode – 8am; Tirur – 9.10 / 9.20am; Shoranur – 10.20/10.30am; Thrissur – 11.10/11.20am; Aluva – 11.25/11.35am; Ernakulam Town – 1/1.10pm; Kottayam – 2.20/2.30pm; Kollam – 4.35/4.45pm; Thiruvananthapuram – 5.50/6pm; Nagercoil – 7.30pm. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/daily-parcel-service-extended-till-nagercoil/articleshow/75227598.cms||---
April 19, 2020||Trichy||Trichy corporation adds new containment zone near Gandhi Market||TRICHY: After a 52-year-old man hailing from Krishnapuram near Gandhi Market in the city was tested positive with Covid-19, the Trichy Corporation declared the city’s fourth containment zone in this locality. However, despite the curfew, the urban local body lamented that people, without understanding the gravity of the situation, are still roaming on the roads near the Gandhi Market. With 21 Covid-19 positive cases, Trichy had three major containment zones covering a population of 2.13 lakh under it. Meanwhile, swab test results for three more people from the city tested positive, taking the total count of Covid-19 positive patients in the city to 24 as on Saturday. Of the three patients, two hail from Andakondan and Thennur that are already under the containment zones while one fresh Covid-19 positive case was reported in Krishnapuram on Thanjavur Road near Gandhi Market. Krishnapuram falls under ward number 14 in Ariyamangalam zone of the corporation. Officials said that the patient had returned from New Delhi. “We have surveyed the locality where the Covid-19 patient resides. A total of 2,500 houses will be covered under the fourth containment zone. Sales of vegetables through pushcarts will be ensured in the zone,” an official source with the corporation said. Movement of people in the containment zone will be restricted and the locals will be enquired by the civic body workers daily to ascertain if they developed symptoms of Covid-19. Around 10,000 people will be restricted within the containment zone number four. The new containment zone near the Gandhi Market has come as a worry for the people. “Social distancing is a big joke in Gandhi Market locality already. Except for the absence of public transportation, it doesn’t seem like a curfew between 6 am and 1 pm,” V B Jaganath, a resident of Karumandapam said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/city-corporation-adds-new-containment-zone-near-gandhi-market/articleshow/75227220.cms||Deepak Karthik
April 19, 2020||Hubballi||Time to prepare papads & pickles||HUBBALLI: The lockdown has provided working women in Hubballi not only a chance to unwind but also allowed many of them to dip into traditional cookbooks, and busying themselves with preparing traditional dry items, which they hope to save for a rainy day. Among the delicacies that the women of North Karnataka have been sweating over include papads and pickles. Asma Koppal, a lecturer at Adarsh PU Science College, said that fryums (sandige) and papads were an inevitable part of a feast. “But owing to my busy schedule, particularly in the summer when I was held up with evaluation, I could not take the time to make them myself. I often bought them at stores. This year, I managed to prepare them myself,” she said. Shweta Veeresh Sharma, an entrepreneur, said that dishes such as chakkalli, karchikai, et al, the traditional knickknacks of India, she often purchased at stores. “This year, with the help of my mother-in-law, I made three types of chakkali, and my son is only too happy to taste the pickles I have made,” said Shweta. Shruti Budihal, who works at a garment factory, has been busy preparing soute beeja and gouli with the help of her mother-in-law. Roopa Kanavi, a clerk at a private school, said that she and her neighbours had been keen on preparing vermicelli by themselves. “It is a task that needs at least four to five people. So we realised that it would not be possible to maintain social distancing while preparing it, so we decided to make fryums with rice flour and sabudhana during the lockdown,” Roopa added. However, many small-scale entrepreneurs engaged in the manufacture and sale of traditional food items are growing worried with this trend. “Families wherein both the husband and wife and working. It is likely that we may not register great sales this year with women preparing many such dishes at home themselves,” said an entrepreneur based in Unkal in Hubballi.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hubballi/time-to-prepare-papads-pickles/articleshow/75226410.cms||Sangamesh Menasinakai
April 19, 2020||Pune||Stigma a major hindrance in early detection of cases||Pune: A resident of Bhawani Peth, already a patient of hypertension, avoided a visit to the doctor despite suffering from a cough, cold and fever. By the time he saw the doctor, he had started suffering from severe breathlessness. The delay eventually led to severe complications. The man told his doctor he was scared to reveal his symptoms as people would boycott him.In another case, a local resident, who returned from the US, was refused entry to his housing society as people feared getting infected due to him. Despite completing his quarantine period in New Delhi and testing negative twice, the man had to face social boycott.City doctors agreed that several citizens displaying symptoms similar to Covid-19 are avoiding seeking medical help due to the stigma and fear of social boycott. In fact, according to medical professionals, stigma and fear of ostracization are among prime reasons for people not reporting their symptoms in the early stages of infection. According to Ajay Chandanwale, former dean of Sassoon Hospital, the delay in reporting the symptoms is leading to further trouble. “We are seeing quite a few patients, who do not come forward to seek medical care despite having the onset of illness for a week or even a fortnight. They feel that their neighbours will ostracize them if they are found to be positive for the coronavirus. This perception among people is landing many in trouble because by the time they start experiencing breathlessness, complications have already set in,” Chandanwale explained. Sanjeev Wavare, in-charge of Naidu Hospital, agreed, “There is no denying that this misconception is making many refrain from seeking medical care immediately upon onset of illness. In fact, the infection is very mild in nature and can be effectively cured if diagnosed and treated in the early stage. Many people have recovered and been discharged in Pune already.”Assistant medical officer at Pune Municipal Corporation Vaishali Jadhav explained, “We are seeing multiple cases of ostracization due to the stigma around Covid-19. Health care workers and staff engaged in conducting the survey are being looked at suspiciously. Housing society members are asking many persons working in health care to stay away due to the fear of getting infected. Even when survey staff visit to residences to collect travel information, people ask the staff for medical certificates to prove that they are not infected.”City-based psychologist Vidyadhar Bapat pointed out that a major fear of becoming a victim and then facing social boycott has taken root in the minds of people. “There is uncertainty about when the lockdown will end and a fear of infection. Anxiety and stress in increasing and people are getting unnecessarily suspicious,” he said, adding, “There is a fear of social boycott, which is making people take extreme steps or fall ill. This time should be used to reinvent oneself.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/stigma-a-major-hindrance-in-early-detection-of-cases/articleshow/75227595.cms||Umesh Isalkar
April 19, 2020||Pune||Civic hospital nurse finally returns to her village||Pune: A 39-year-old nurse working with the Kamla Nehru Hospital finally made it home on Saturday, a week after the authorities in Ambegaon taluka forbade her from entering the village fearing contracting the virus.The stigma surrounding the coronavirus, coupled with the fear of infection, prompted the village authorities to shut the door on her. Unable to return home, the nurse from the radiology department of the Pune Municipal Corporation-run hospital stayed in the changing room for over a week.“Last Monday, I returned from my village and received a call from the local police, telling me not to return to my village as I was working in a hospital and could carry infection home. Then I got calls from the gram sevak and the sarpanch who also said the same thing,” she said.“My supervisor called the sarpanch on Friday with a request to allow me to enter the village, but it was refused. However, a short while later, the gram sevak called me and said I could return home. He said he had discussed the issue with the taluka medical officer and received a go-ahead from him,” she said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/civic-hospital-nurse-finally-returns-to-her-village/articleshow/75227600.cms||Rujuta Parekh
April 19, 2020||Vadodara||Vadodara villages adopt needy families during crisis||Vadodara: While he implored people to to help the poor and provide them with food, a few villages in Vadodara district had pre-empted Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s message and had been providing food and essential items to poor families living within their villages. The gram panchayat of Angadh village in Vadodara taluka, came up with a scheme asking villagers to adopt needy families and provide them with food and kits containing essential items. “Since the lockdown, 170 families have been adopted by villagers and have been provided them with grocery kits,” said sarpanch Raju Gohil. Gohil further said that besides the food items like grains, masala, oil, the essential kits also include washing powder, soap, hair oil among other things. Items in the kits are enough to sustain for 15 days, which is replenished once every fortnight. “While villagers adopt one family each, 16 ward members have been asked to compulsorily adopt three families each,” Gohil added. Like Angadh, Sokhda village too supports its needy by providing ration kits to poor families living in the village. “The gram panchayat conducted a survey to identify the needy,” said Raju Patel, sarpanch of Sokhda. The villagers along with others from outside the village too, donated kits containing essential food items to 150 identified families in the village. At Sadhli village in Shinor taluka, the village youth have been preparing meals for poor families twice a day. Everyday since March 28, the youth have been preparing food for 700 people in the village and serving it door-to-door.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/vadodara-villages-adopt-needy-families-during-crisis/articleshow/75226594.cms||Jay Pachchigar
April 19, 2020||Goa||‘Mining transport flouts lockdown norms, will affect respiratory health’||Panaji: Goa Foundation on Saturday said that the movement of mining trucks carrying ore is a misuse of the Covid-19 lockdown guidelines issued by the central government. Reacting to media reports on the resumption of movement of trucks carrying iron ore within the state, Goa Foundation director Claude Alvares said, “This is a misuse of the Covid19 lockdown guidelines issued by the Central government ”.  Alvares said that the lockdown guidelines allow mineral production and transportation, but only those essential to production of iron and steel within the country. Highlighting the health hazard posed by the truck movement, Alvares said, “Covid-19, the Goa government should be reminded, is a respiratory illness. By what yardstick is an activity that is closely associated with respiratory illness being allowed on Goa’s roads”?||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/mining-transport-flouts-lockdown-norms-will-affect-respiratory-health/articleshow/75227603.cms||---
April 19, 2020||Trichy||Tamil Nadu: Agriculture dept readies 25,000 tonnes of fertilizers||TRICHY: Agriculture department has taken various steps to disburse required fertilizers to the needy farmer at their doorsteps. According to the officials they have stocked around 25,000 tonnes of fertilizers for the benefits of the farmers. Official sources said that farmers have raised black gram at around 10,000 acres and sesame at around 4,000 acres in Trichy. While farmers from Lalgudi, Anthanallur have commenced black gram harvesting, farmers from other parts are expecting to reap the fruits. In the case of sesame crop, farmers from Lalgudi, Anthanallur, Manachanallur blocks have raised the crop and are expecting to harvest during the third week of May. Following the lockdown, farmers struggled to continue their farming activities. However, the government took various steps to ease farming activities, agriculture officials said. As per the government order, officials from the agriculture department have taken various steps to help farmers to get their inputs like fertilizers, seeds without any hurdle, joint director of agriculture department Trichy P Asokan said. “Due to the absence of a public transport system, the government learnt the difficulties farmers are facing in getting fertilizers. To take the required fertilizers to their doorsteps, mobile sales was launched on April 13. For the benefits of farmers, 5,037 tonnes of urea, 6,177 tonnes of DAP, 4,080 tonnes of potash, and 11,720 tonnes of complex fertilizers are made available at Primary Agriculture Cooperative Credit Societies (PACCS) in the district”, he said. To help farmers continue their agriculture activities, permit cards have been distributed to the needy farmers. Moreover, to provide necessary advice to farmers, the agriculture department has provided field level agriculture official's name and their mobile numbers, so that farmers can contact the respective officials and get their expertise to carry out farming, officials said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/agri-dept-readies-25k-tonnes-of-fertilizers/articleshow/75227228.cms||---
April 19, 2020||Kolhapur||Collector for 4-hr duty for CPR nurses||Kolhapur: District collector Daulat Desai said on Saturday that the problems of the nurses working at the Chhatrapati Pamila Raje hospital, which has been turned into a facility for screening and treating Covid-19 patients, would be resolved soon. Some of the nurses working at the hospital had taken to social media complaining how they were not able to manage things due to their eight-hour work shift. The association of nurses demanded that the working hours for the nurses attending to the Covid-19 patients be reduced. Previously, they had complained that they were not given the personal protective equipment(PPE) kits. Now that they were provided the kits, they were being asked to work for eight hours. A senior official from the distrci administration said, “We have received a letter from the district collector to look into the concerns of the nursing staff. We have discussed the issues with the nurses’ representatives. We will increase the number of nurses to ensure each nurse looking after a patient in the isolation ward does not have to work for more than four hours. We have also decided to give the nurses nutritious meals.” One of the nurses from CPR the hospital said, “As per guidelines, nurses have to be on duty for four hours. The same practice was being followed in Miraj where 26 suspects were undergoing treatment. Each isolation ward requires one nurse to look after the suspect.” “We have been told that some nurses from the civic hospitals will be pressed into service at CPR hospital. However if they are not given an assurance about the PPE kits and fixed duty for four hours, they too will be reluctant to take the task,” said the nurse.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolhapur/collector-for-4-hr-duty-for-cpr-nurses/articleshow/75227226.cms||---
April 19, 2020||Trichy||Folk artists welcome govt decision to give Covid relief in cash||Trichy: The folk artists have welcomed state government’s decision to provide Rs 1,000 as Covid-19 relief to them. The officials from the department of art and culture have been engaged in the process of the enumeration, district collector S Sivarasu said in a statement released here on Saturday.According to data, a total of 1,999 artists have been registered with the welfare board of folk artists. Once the enumeration process completed, the financial assistance would be credited to the bank accounts of respective members, collector stated. Mohammed Masthan, general secretary of Trichy district drama artists association, expressed happiness over the announcement of cash assistance by the government. However, they also expressed certain grievances with regard to filing their documents.“We are sending the required details to a mobile number given by the department of arts and culture. We have several queries with regard to uploading the required document. But we could not contact the mobile number (Prakash 9659457396) to clear our doubts, as nobody picks our calls. The concerned officials should lend their ears to us,” Masthan added.Meanwhile, it was also announced that the village temple priests will receive the Covid-19 relief of Rs 1,000. A total of 1,566 village temple priests are working in Trichy district.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/folk-artists-welcome-govt-decision-to-give-covid-relief-in-cash/articleshow/75227233.cms||---
April 19, 2020||Ahmedabad||High court restricts its functioning again||Ahmedabad: One day after a Gujarat high court employee’s testing positive for Covid-19 came to the fore, the HC again curtailed its functioning and the Chief Justice ordered that only new urgent matters be taken up for hearing. A peon posted at a judge’s bungalow tested positive after he was found to have a high-grade fever at the HC gate earlier this week. From this week, partial movement of HC staff had resumed on the campus after the court decided to take up more cases regarding bail and detentions and five benches were constituted. Though the judges conduct matters from home, limited staff of the HC registry was required to go to office. The CJ agreed to hear more cases at the request of the Bar association president Yatin Oza, who said young lawyers were struggling because of closed courts. However, the chief justice again ordered that judicial functioning be restricted citing two reasons. The HC registrar (judicial) again complained that due to increased e-filing, lawyers had clogged the court’s inbox and this had led to certain complications. The other reason the CJ cited is the wide spread of Covid-19 in Ahmedabad and the need for strict implementation of the lockdown, which has now been extended till May 3. “It cannot be ignored that present time is the third stage of Covid-19, which is the community spread stage. The number of Covid-19 cases in Ahmedabad city is on the rise. Yesterday alone, more than 100 cases were added. The details with regard to various localities are enlisted in the submission of the Registrar (Judicial) dated 18.04.2020. Every day new areas are being declared hotspots and are being quarantined,” the CJ’s order reads. The CJ said that the relaxation order of April 10 for hearing more cases needed to be modified and the old order of March 22, for hearing limited cases had to be restored. “The request of the president of Gujarat High Court Advocates’ Association expressing concern about junior advocates facing severe hardships cannot be doubted. But at the same time the larger perspective and the interest of the public at large in the current crisis in which city of Ahmedabad is badly affected, cannot be overlooked,” the order said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/high-court-restricts-its-functioning-again/articleshow/75227341.cms||---
April 19, 2020||Chennai||Hyundai ties up with French company to boost making of ventilators||CHENNAI: Car major Hyundai Motor India has entered into a partnership with Air Liquide Medical Systems (ALMS) to crank up production and supply of ventilators in Tamil Nadu. A manufacturer of ICU ventilators with its plant in Chennai, ALMS will receive technical knowhow and vendor support from Hyundai to crank up production to 200-300 ventilators a month. The final target is 1,000 ventilators in Phase 1 of production, and to scale up subsequently. Said S S Kim, MD & CEO, Hyundai Motor India, “Ventilators and other respiratory aids are critical devices in the fight against Covid-19 and to this end, Hyundai & ALMS are working together to ensure a steady supply of ventilators in India. Hyundai is committed to serving society in every way and will continue to support the Government of India’s war against Covid-19.” Added Anil Kumar, MD, ALMS, India, “We are one of the very few global companies with a dedicated R&D to manufacture ventilators in India. ALMS is employing all resources available to manufacture innovative, easy-to use and high-performing ventilators.” Hyundai is also producing an in-house ventilator, for which the third prototype will be submitted to the Tamil Nadu government for approval on Monday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/hyundai-ties-up-with-french-co-to-boost-making-of-ventilators/articleshow/75227605.cms||---
April 19, 2020||Dehradun||Uttarakhand reports two new positive cases of Covid-19, state’s tally now 42||DEHRADUN: With two new positive cases of Covid-19 reported on Saturday, the total number of novel coronavirus cases in Uttarakhand has reached 42. According to the health department, a 45-year-old woman, wife of a Covid-19-positive Jamaat member, has reported positive in Haridwar district. Besides, an 18-year-old daily wager from Hathras also tested positive on Saturday. He was working in a shop in Rishikesh and attempted to go back to his hometown after the lockdown was announced in late March. He was stopped by the police at Roorkee border and was living in a shelter home with 25 other migrant labourers since the past fortnight. “We have asked the entire staff, around eight people, of the shop to get quarantined. Also, all the workers in the shelter home have been asked to be quarantined,” said an official from the office of director general (DG) health who added that it will be a tough task for the health department to track the infection source of the 18-year-old who never come in contact with any positive patient, as per the preliminary information gathered by the health department. Meanwhile, a Tablighi Jamaat member, found Covid-19- positive in the first week of April, tested negative twice in the past 48 hours and was discharged from Doon Hospital on Saturday. With his discharge, the number of recovered patients in Uttarakhand is now 10. Further, in the wake of increasing number of corona patients in Haridwar district, the health department has decided to increase the capacity of isolation centres for keeping the suspected patients. Currently, over 500 isolation beds have been reserved in different hospitals in Haridwar for suspected Covid-19-positive patients and 400 more beds will now be added, health officials said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/ukhand-reports-2-new-ve-cases-of-covid-19-states-tally-now-42/articleshow/75226425.cms||Ishita Mishra
April 19, 2020||Allahabad||UP: Cops attacked while raiding hooch units||PRAYAGRAJ: A sub-inspector and his team were injured when they were attacked by a group of local residents during a raid on hooch units in Kasturipur Kasturi village, under Holagarh police station, late Friday night. The police team had gone to the village to nab those involved in manufacturing and sale of liquor. Station house officer of Holagarh police station Roshan Lal, said, “On Friday night, a police team led by sub-inspector Arjun Singh raided the village to nab those involved in manufacturing illegal liquor. When some of the accused spotted the police, they started hurling rocks and bricks at them. By the time the team could escape, the SI and a few constables were injured.” Later, 10 persons, including the husband of the gram pradhan, were detained. On Saturday, police again raided the village and detained a few persons including some women who had reportedly provide shelter to the accused, he added. Lal said that police had raided that Kasturipur Kasturi village three days back and had recovered a huge cache of ingredients used in manufacturing hooch. Police had also registered an FIR in connection with the case. SP (trans-Ganga) NK Singh said, “The villagers also shot several rounds of fire when the police team went there again on Saturday. We have arrested 23 persons in total, including the 10 nabbed on Friday night. We have also recovered large number of cartridges.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/allahabad/cops-attacked-while-raiding-hooch-units/articleshow/75225715.cms||---
April 19, 2020||Pune||Screen time with magic shows, masters of western classical & comedy theatre||Renowned magician Jitendra Raghuvir decided to get into uncharted territory on March 29 to reach out to his thousands of fans across the state, holding a magic and science awareness show, but on Facebook Live. During the show, he displayed an array of tricks and innovative sleights of hand, emphasized often that the art of magic is grounded in science and rationality, and also took questions on magic tricks and the field of magic from people of all ages, especially the kids who tuned in, as well as their parents. The tricks he displayed and questions he got also related to the current crisis, with him using his tricks to demonstrate how coronavirus can spread. All told, his livestream attracted over 25,000 views. “I have done only about a couple of other performances online, one being for publicity and the other for a TV channel. But this is the first performance of its kind that I have done on Facebook Live. It was simply an effort to spread positivity among the people during such an uncertain time. I tried to demonstrate how the coronavirus can spread, and how sanitation is important,” Jitendra told TOI. The last of his shows sold out to packed houses on March 8 and 9, and major shows that he had scheduled, has been cancelled. “March is generally a bit light on the workload, but April to June is our peak busy period. This is a hit not just on me, but also on others who sustain their livelihoods only on magic shows. Sadly, there are no packages to help out professional artists and performers,” he lamented. Jitendra is not the only one trying to provide some succour to his fans during uneasy times, of a raging virus and a resulting lockdown. Comedy groups, theatre institutions, and other cultural organisations are streaming content recorded both in the past and present, with many using video-conferencing tools from their homes to be part of panels. The National Centre for Performing Arts (NCPA) in Mumbai is streaming a whole host of music and theatre performances from renowned artists at its stage, which have happened over the past few years, through its social media accounts. The scheduled online screenings include everything from a dance recital by Mallika Sarabhai, to renowned musicians presenting some of the most recognized- and rare- symphonies of Mozart and Tchaikovsky. And for the Marathi language comedy group Bharatiya Digital Party- known in common parlance as Bha Di Pa, they have taken it a step further. The group’s co-founders- and real-life partners- Sarang Sathaye and Paula McGlynn have been shooting and posting a series of “lost in translation” skits, titled Marathi Babu Canadian Mem, from their home in Mumbai. The comedic situations in the skit emerge at kitchen settings, with Sathaye’s Marathi and Hindi clashing with the English-speaking Canadian McGlynn’s interpretations of words and situations, resulting in puns spanning across languages. Two episodes in, the series has already attracted thousands of views, with users, who have also shared it thousands of times, pointing out the hilarious choices in music through which these short sketches end. Sathaye also posted a skit on Friday, featuring himself, which lampoons the “dalgona” coffee craze online, ending in a rant, just about reflecting everyone’s mind, stuck at home for weeks. “Paula and I have been planning the series for some time now, but because we are focused on Bha Di Pa, which we run together, we could not end up executing it. These situations (“lost in translation”) often happened between us before, as we were trying to get over the language barrier. And we edited these on iMovies, as our staff at Bha Di Pa is focused on releasing videos over the lockdown period, including our promise of 21 videos in 21 days,” Sathaye told TOI. The crisis has come at significant cost to almost everyone in society, not least the entertainment industry. And although Sathaye and Bha Di Pa are also counting their losses, he also sees this as a blessing in disguise.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/screen-time-with-magic-shows-masters-of-western-classical-comedy-theatre/articleshow/75227602.cms||Shiladitya Pandit
April 19, 2020||Allahabad||5,000 families living near Covid hosp to be screened||Prayagraj: Health department officials would screen over 5,000 families living within a three-kilometre radius of the Covid-19 Level One Hospital in Kotwa — where all novel coronavirus patients are being treated in the city — as a precautionary measure. Till now, six cases were reported from Pratapgarh, two from Kaushambhi and one from Prayagraj. Of these, seven were linked to the Tablighi Jamaat congregation which was organised in Delhi amid the novel coronavirus outbreak. Eight of these patients were discharged after testing negative for the virus thrice and have been advised to self-isolate at home. Additional chief medical officer and nodal officer Dr Rishi Sahai said, “The health department has demarcated the area within a three-kilometre radius of the Covid-19 Level One Hospital as hyper-sensitive and decided to screen around 5,000 families living within the area.” “Around 50 teams equipped with a special app will go door-to-door to screen families. The teams will include a doctor and a community health officer for supervision,” he added. “If a person is found experiencing symptoms like cough, fever, cold or a respiratory stress, the team would immediately contact the Rapid Response Team (RRT) for further action.” The samples of suspected cases would be sent to MLN Medial College for testing. Meanwhile, 15 medical teams screened around 800 students who had returned from Kota in Rajasthan to Prayagraj on Sunday, after being stranded in the city because of the lockdown. ‘All of them tested negative for novel coronavirus,” said Dr Sahai.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/allahabad/5000-families-living-near-covid-hosp-to-be-screened/articleshow/75238858.cms||---
April 19, 2020||Kolhapur||Containment zones drawn up for every 2-3 wards in city||Kolhapur: The civic administration is going to seal two to three wards and mark them as containment zones to curb the spread of Covid-19 and ensure the effective implementation of the lockdown. Usually, containment zones are drawn up in the localities or areas surrounding a locality from where a confirmed Covid-19 positive case has been reported. However, the Kolhapur Municipal Corporation (KMC) does not want to take chances and has already started marking the containment zones for some wards from Saturday. There are total 81 wards in the city. District collector Daulat Desai has given orders to every town in the district to mark containment zones and seal them completely. While one zone will be chalked out for each village, larger villages will have two zones. Municipal commissioner Mallinath Kalshetti said, “All the containment zones will be sealed. No one will be allowed to move from one zone to another unless there is a medical emergency or health facilities are located in another zone. We are making arrangements to ensure all the essentials are available in each zone.” “We have formed local committees under the corporator of each ward to look after the needs of the residents. The corporators will have to monitor the new zones till the lockdown is lifted,” said Kalshetti.Mangalwar Peth and Kasba Bawda areas were completely sealed after confirmed positive cases were reported from these two localities. People were asked to stay indoors for a stipulated number of days to complete the screenings. Vijay Shinde, a resident of Kasba Bawda said, “We were under complete lockdown for three days after a positive case was reported from our area. The administration should ensure the locals do not impose mandatory closure of grocery shops and vegetable markets. It should also ensure that supply of essentials like cooking gas cylinders is regularised.”Authorities from the civic administration said that residents could move out of the wards when they needed to buy essentials. “Residents should be given a fair idea about the markings of the containment zone so that they can plan accordingly while going to buy essentials,” said Shinde. Officials said that such containment clusters have been marked in cities like Pune, where there are a higher number of positive cases. However, the civic body has to be extra cautious as citizens prefer to visit retail malls to buy essentials and currently, there are very few stores operating in different parts of the city.A senior civic official said that all such factors, along with vehicles of which essential goods should be allowed to pass through different zones, were being taken into account while chalking out the containment zone. The civic administration will seek the help of the local committees while granting permission to citizens to travel from one zone to another. Desai has strictly directed to the KMC to ensure people going to other zones for genuine reason should not be obstructed.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolhapur/containment-zones-drawn-up-for-every-2-3-wards-in-city/articleshow/75227242.cms||---
April 19, 2020||Trichy||4 new Covid-19 cases in central districts||TRICHY: Four new positive cases were recorded in Perambalur and Thanjavur districts on Saturday, taking the total number of cases in the central region to 191. Three people - a four-year-old boy, a 47-year-old police constable and a 24-year-old man tested positive in Perambalur district. The boy is suspected to have contracted the infection from his father who had returned from Sharjah. The boy’s father was under home quarantine. The family resides in Palayam village near Perambalur town. Except for the boy, other family members including the father tested negative. The 24-year-old man from V Kalathur is suspected to have contracted the infection from his brother-in-law who had tested positive on April 3. Health department officials said the constable was posted at the V Kalathur containment zone. “As many as 36 contacts of the constable including policemen have been identified. They are advised to be placed in institutional quarantine,” a health department official said. The V Kalathur police station is being disinfected and the process is likely to go for two days. The district police have instructed its personnel on Covid-19 duty to be more cautious. “Police personnel have been instructed to wash their hands frequently. If hand-washing facility is not available, they are told to use hand sanitizer,” Nisha Parthiban, superintendent of police told TOI. The district administration has instructed residents of V Kalathur and Palayam villages to stay home and avoid public movement. All three patients from Perambalur have been shifted to the Mahatma Gandhi memorial government hospital in Trichy. Meanwhile, a day after recording 17 cases, Thanjavur district recorded only one positive case on Saturday. A 39-year-old woman, relative of a positive patient who gave birth to a baby boy on April 7 at the Rajah Mirasudhar Government Hospital in Thanjavur, tested positive. There were no new cases in Trichy. In a statement, the district administration said that results of 208 out of the 331 close contacts of 36 patients, which came on Saturday, were negative. The remaining 123 results are pending, said Trichy collector S Sivarasu. There were no new cases in Karur, Pudukottai, Ariyalur, Tiruvarur and Nagapattinam. The Government Medical College in Karur discharged a 25-year-old man from Dindigul district on Saturday after he recovered from Covid-19. (With inputs from R Gokul and D Vincent Arockiaraj)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/4-new-covid-19-cases-in-central-dists/articleshow/75227239.cms||Deepak Karthik
April 19, 2020||Trichy||Tamil Nadu: Rice distribution to mosques for Ramadan to be completed today||TIRUVARUR: Food minister R Kamaraj said that the government would complete distribution of 5,450 tonnes of rice to 2,895 mosques in the state for the month of Ramadan by Sunday. He was speaking after inaugurating the distribution of rice to a mosque in Tiruvarur. A meeting was held in Chennai headed by the chief secretary with Muslim leaders and the chief kazi Salahuddin Mohammed Ayub at the secretariat to work out modalities of the rice distribution and iftar traditionally held at mosques. The mosques will distribute the rice in small packets at the doorsteps of the beneficiaries. Kamaraj said the scheme of providing rice to mosques began under former chief minister J Jayalalithaa. “A meeting was held with Muslim leaders and decided to provide 150gm of raw rice to each Muslim in the state. As per the decision, a total of 5,450 tonnes of raw rice is being distributed to 2,895 mosques. This process commenced on Saturday and it has been decided to complete the process by April 19, on Sunday,” the minister said. Earlier, the rice was used to prepare gruel at all the mosques and would be distributed in the mosque itself. As 144 is in effect across the country, the raw rice would be distributed to Muslim households, the minister added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/rice-distribution-to-mosques-for-ramadan-to-be-completed-today/articleshow/75227243.cms||---
April 19, 2020||Nagpur||40-yr-old +ve, panicked Shanti Nagar residents demand tracing in more colonies||Nagpur: Shanti Nagar residents have demanded that the Nagpur Municipal Corporation (NMC) should bring more people from adjoining localities of Mahesh Nagar and Kashyap Nagar under quarantine. The civic body’s containment teams had picked up 63 persons as on Friday night from Shanti Nagar and another 13 on Saturday. A big family having 26 members have relatives and close contacts from these two colonies which have so far been left out in the containment drive, residents say. As per the area sealing order, the NMC has included Shanti Nagar Ghat Chowk, Shanti Nagar Universal Chowk and Mudliar Chowk. “The two localities fall on left side on Shanti Nagar road while going from Itwari Railway station and they have not been included in the restricted areas,” they said. Residents added that there are over 20 persons in the area who would run errands, do household chores and other petty works at the homes of these people must also be tested and quarantined. Residents are now scared as these people also did works for them. At Kashyap Nagar, they say many are relatives of the big family and were in regular touch despite the lockdown. “We are constantly trying to find out the test results of these people. We fear for our health in case anyone of them test positive,” said a youth from the area. The 40-year-old man who tested positive on Friday had accompanied the 51-year-old tour operator to Bareilly for a mutual friend’s marriage ceremony. The bride and groom were already quarantined even before the Satranjipura area became Covid19 epicentre because of their digital footprints at Delhi. The tour operator is city’s first deceased’s nephew. He had tested positive on April 11. But none of his close contacts were quarantined. The NMC team led by additional medical officer health Dr Praveen Gantawar was clueless about the tour operator’s travel history. On April 14, TOI had reported about the tour operator’s extensive travel history to Mecca and Bareilly following which Dr Gantawar and his team picked up his 32 close contacts from Mahesh Nagar in Shanti Nagar. Since then, while NMC team has focused on the family links of the tour operator including his elder brother, residents feel the latter’s close contacts must also be quarantined. “These close contacts are mostly common maid servants and people offering skill-based services in the area. Around 20 such persons live in the localities not yet covered by NMC,” a businessman from the area told TOI.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/40-yr-old-ve-panicked-shanti-nagar-residents-demand-tracing-in-more-colonies/articleshow/75227244.cms||Sarfaraz Ahmed
April 19, 2020||Trichy||Rapid test kits reach Trichy, health workers test negative||TRICHY: The Trichy district received the first set of rapid test kits and carried out the rapid antibody tests on the frontline health workers at Mahatma Gandhi memorial government hospital (MGMGH) on Saturday. A total of 1,000 rapid test kits reached Trichy district in the first phase. The kits were kept at the laboratory of KAP Viswanatham government medical college and Mahatma Gandhi memorial government hospital (MGMGH) in Trichy. The arrival of the kit to Tamil Nadu was delayed for nearly a week. Trichy collector, S Sivarasu, who planned to inspect the kits, cancelled the visit in the afternoon on Saturday. However, the hospital administration jumped into action and conducted the rapid antibody tests for their frontline workers. As many as 50 health workers including doctors, nurses and hospital workers were tested at the hospital. The hospital administration said that none of them tested positive for Covid-19. The results came out in just 30 minutes instead of of six hours for the confirmatory tests. “Those who tested negative in the rapid test need not be taken to the confirmatory test. If it shows positive, we can move to the next level test,” dean of MGMGH, Dr K Vanitha told TOI. Indian Council for medical research (ICMR), New Delhi, in its letter dated April 17, termed real time PCR-based molecular test the golden frontline test for Covid-19 diagnosis, adding that the rapid antibody test cannot replace the frontline test. Sivarasu said the available kits will also be distributed to the deputy director of health services (DDHS) of Trichy district and city health officer (CHO) of Trichy Corporation. They could use them for testing the symptomatic patients in the hotspots of Covid-19 and also in the area that may emerge as a hotspot in the future.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/rapid-test-kits-reach-trichy-health-workers-test-negative/articleshow/75227246.cms||---
April 19, 2020||Ahmedabad||SVP, Civil Hospital get ICMR go-ahead for plasma therapy||Ahmedabad: China has done it. Closer home, Kerala has started plasma therapy trials for critically ill Covid patients. Plasma or serum with antibodies against Covid is taken from those who have recovered and it is transfused into patients undergoing treatment. The hope is to increase the patients’ passive immunity against the virus and help combat the viral load. So it was a big day for Gujarat when two institutions in Ahmedabad — SVP Hospital and BJ Medical College affiliated with Civil Hospital — got the nod from the Indian Council for Medical Research to start the Convalescent Plasma Therapy for Covid patients. “We are hopeful of giving patients with severe Covid infection a better chance at fighting and getting well,” said principal secretary, health, Jayanti Ravi. “The therapy is expected to be offered shortly.” Ahmedabad municipal commissioner Vijay Nehra on Saturday evening tweeted that SVP Hospital had got the permission. “Donor identified, consent obtained, donation completed, tests underway. Hope to start trials tomorrow,” Nehra tweeted. He also posted the picture of the donor, Smruti Thakkar, who has recovered after taking treatment at SVP Hospital. Nehra said that six donors have been identified and their consent taken for plasma donations. Currently, only three have completed the 14-day mandatory period after recovery to qualify to donate plasma. “One plasma donation can help treat four patients. There are many dos and don’ts which have to be followed but lot of hopes are pinned on this therapy,” said Ravi. The therapy is considered an option especially as there are no medicines or vaccine for Covid. Earlier, studies from Wuhan had showed that 10 adults who were severely ill with coronavirus tolerated the transfusion well and started developing antibodies that helped reduce the viral load in seven days.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/svp-civil-hospital-get-icmr-go-ahead-for-plasma-therapy/articleshow/75227338.cms||---
April 19, 2020||Kanpur||2 more Covid-19 suspects admitted to LLR hospital||Kanpur: Two more persons suspected of coronavirus were admitted at the Covid-19 unit of Lala Lajpat Rai hospital on Saturday. With them, the total number of suspected cases rose to 272. Among them, 37 persons have been discharged, according to the health bulletin issued by the health department. Though none was found positive among the quarantined persons but two more corona positive cases were admitted in the hospital. With them, a total 30 persons were found to be infected with the corona virus.  Meanwhile, district magistrate Brahmadeo Ram Tiwari, using his powers under the Epidemic Diseases Act, declared Vidhya Bhawan College of Pharmacy building as a temporary jail and directed the police, chief medical officer, Kanpur municipal corporation, district jail superintendent and several other government departments to convert the college building into a temporary jail and arrange all things which were necessary for a temporary jail. To enforce the lockdown strictly in the city, police caught several persons moving on roads and took action against them. Police checked 2719 vehicles, challaned 644, seized 22 vehicles and slapped and realised Rs 12,500 as fine for violation of the Motor Vehicles Act. Police also registered cases against 69 persons in 30 cases, said the police bulletin. SSP/DIG Aanant Deo inspected the hotspot and red zone areas under Colonelganj police station and issued necessary directions. He also witnessed aerial inspection by drones. Kanpur Municipal Corporation sanitized areas between Bakarmandi crossing and Yateemkhana, Lakad Mandi and other places of the city. Meanwhile, medical teams visited several houses in Baripal village under Sajeti police station and another village in Kakwan block and screened around 1000 villagers and told them how to maintain social distancing. The administration distributed 1000 kg oranges, 980 kg banana and 1060 kg cucumber among policemen on duty at the hospital and other places. Meanwhile, Kanpur Municipal Corporation staff fed 1449 stray dogs and gave fodder to street cattle.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kanpur/2-more-covid-19-suspects-admitted-to-llr-hospital/articleshow/75227364.cms||---
April 19, 2020||Kolhapur||First 2 Covid-19 patients discharged, 1 recovering||Kolhapur: The first two Covid-19 cases from the city were discharged from a private hospital on Saturday. Both tests of the brother-sister duo were reported negative. The Pune-based brother had come to meet his sister just before the lockdown. Both tested positive and were subsequently sent to a private hospital at Ujlaiwadi. After three out of two cases recovering, only one positive case remains in the city. The third case from the city is a 63-year-old woman from Kasba Bawda area is also responding well to the treatment. The doctors and the supporting staff were in a cheerful mood during the discharge of the duo as they spent 23 days in the hospital. Even civic chief Mallinath Kalshetti was present to wish the brother-sister duo and congratulate the doctors for their efforts. Both have now been advised home isolation for the next couple of weeks. "Now only one Covid-19 case from the city remains. She too is responding well. We are continuously observing her health status. She too will be discharged in the coming few days and then only we can say that we have successfully managed to stop the spread of coronavirus in the city," said Kalshetti. Meanwhile, on Saturday, the test reports of 14 more suspects turned negative. The samples of the close contacts of the Covid-19 patients from the district are being taken and sent for testing. The district administration are tracing the contacts of positive cases and sending them to institutional quarantine. "Over 100 people with travel history are screened these days across the district. The samples of 60 people are taken randomly on the basis of the symptoms and date of arrival and sent to institutional quarantining. So far almost all swabs are tested and few are rejected. We are going to increase our testing once a laboratory at Rajarshi Chhatrapati Shahu Medical College is set up,” said a senior district official on condition of anonymity.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolhapur/first-2-covid-19-patients-discharged-1-recovering/articleshow/75227253.cms||---
April 19, 2020||Ahmedabad||Ahmedabad: This van can sanitize eight policemen in just 30 seconds||AHMEDABAD: With eight police personnel and officers testing corona positive, the city crime branch has come up with a mini sanitizing van which can sanitize eight policemen at a time in only 30 seconds. Earlier, a similar van launched by the crime branch could accommodate only one person. Special police commissioner, crime branch, Ajay Tomar, said that police personnel have to just sit inside the van for about half a minute and their whole body will get sanitised. Tomar said they had got representations from policemen and officers working in corona-affected or cluster quarantine areas that sanitizer cleans their hands but their uniforms, shoes and belts remain exposed. “They had said that when they go home from such areas, there is the risk of carrying the virus to their homes,” said Tomar. “We then contacted Dr Vineet Mishra of the kidney department in the Civil Hospital and with his help they prepared a concentration of methyl alcohol and two binding agents. “This concentration is filled in a tank put on top of the sanitizing van,” Tomar said. He said that the police have made one such van and another one is being set up. “The van will be deployed or move in vulnerable areas,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/this-van-can-sanitize-eight-policemen-in-just-30-seconds/articleshow/75227329.cms||Sarfaraz Shaikh
April 19, 2020||Nagpur||Will push for increasing import duty on Chinese items: Nitin Gadkari||NAGPUR: Union minister for MSMEs and city MP Nitin Gadkari said he will push the case for increasing import duty on Chinese items. “The industry will have to reduce its dependence on China. I will be requesting Union commerce minister Piyush Goyal to increase the duty on Chinese goods, as it has been done for palm oil that came from Malaysia. The duty on palm oil was taken to the highest level,” said Gadkari. “Ice-cream spoons made out of bamboo were imported from China. I asked the commerce minister and got the duty hiked. Industrialists came running and said it would hit them hard but I did not heed. Now, the machinery has been developed here and the spoons are made in India,” he said. “Why does the industry need to depend on China on even small things like bottle caps?” said Gadkari. He was addressing members of confederation of footwear industries through video conferencing. Gadkari, who is in Nagpur due to the lockdown, has held a series of meetings with various business associations. In each meeting, he has emphasized on reducing dependence on China. He said the government has also approved a policy for bulk drug manufacturing which will do away with the need for imports from China. Gadkari said bulk production can reduce the costs and help the Indian industry compete with China. He suggested industries to stick together and pool capital to make substitutes for items that are imported from China. The government has also approved a fund of Rs10,000 crore for subscribing 15% capital in the SMEs, he said. “As the entire world is going through an economic crisis, countries are reluctant to deal with China. This should be taken as an opportunity by the Indian industries,” he said. Gadkari said he will be holding a meeting with the states’ transport ministers to ensure smooth movement of goods. However, the industries will also have to maintain discipline and not take out huge quantities in one go. He insisted on strict compliance of the conditions on social distancing at factories as violation invites penal action. A manufacturer pointed out it was not possible to maintain distancing while operating certain machines. On this, Gadkari said, “Industries can come up with ingenious methods like providing coveralls to the workers where social distancing is not possible,” he said. However, Gadkari also clarified that it was just an offhand suggestion.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/will-push-for-increasing-import-duty-on-chinese-items-gadkari/articleshow/75227258.cms||Shishir Arya
April 19, 2020||Mangaluru||NITK prof develops disinfection chamber for houses||MANGALURU: Arun M Isloor, professor and head, department of chemistry, National Institute of Technology Karnataka, (NITK) Surathkal along with research scholar Syed Ibrahim has developed a disinfection chamber named ZERO-COV. The chamber helps to control surface contamination of bacteria and viruses including Covid-19. The chamber has been built using an old fridge “By keeping vegetables and even currency notes in the disinfection chamber for 15 minutes one can ensure destruction or inactivation of bacteria and viruses by 99.9%. The technology used here is UV-C radiation, which has a wavelength of 254 nanometers, which can destroy the nucleic acid of germs. This technology is well proven and accepted by the scientific community. WHO had recommended this technology for surface disinfection. This is commonly used for disinfection in hospitals, laboratories and water treatment plants,” he said. According to Dr Isloor, soon after switching on, the doors must be closed completely, as direct UV-C radiation on human body can cause harmful effects. The chamber was handed over to Prof Uma Maheshwar Rao, director, NITK and his wife Neeraja Rao, headmistress, Kendriya Vidyalaya No 2, Yekkur at their residence on Monday. Prof M S Bhat, dean, faculty welfare, Prof Anantanarayanan, deputy director and Prof Sripathi Acharya, dean, research were present.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mangaluru/nitk-prof-develops-disinfection-chamber-for-houses/articleshow/75226484.cms||---
April 19, 2020||Chennai||Child-parent conflicts on rise, say experts||CHENNAI: “My son and I got into an argument and for the first time, he raised his hand to hit me,” said the mother of a teenager. She was asking her son to complete his homework on time... one thing led to another, and he raised his hand to slap her. “I am so scared of him now because he is losing his temper and is frustrated all the time,” she said. This isn’t the only such complaint. Several parents have been reaching out to counsellors and psychologists in the city in the past two weeks with similar complaints. Anjana S, another parent, said she has been noticing a drastic change in her son’s attitude over the past many days. “He has classes for four to five hours every day. And then he also has homework. He is not able to go out or meet his friends which seems to have made him anxious and frustrated,” she said. Child psychologists said they have been receiving not less than 15 calls a day from parents and children with such complaints. “Children blame parents for not giving privacy and parents complain that children aren’t doing homework or chores on time,” said Jothi Kolathur, a child counsellor. Children also said they are overburdened and feel ‘stuck’ at home, which lead to rifts in families and isolating themselves further. To combat this, schools have set up separate sessions with student counsellors so children are more at ease and lead a healthy life during the lockdown. “Often, we find parents standing behind children as they attend classes on Zoom or Skype. The child feels uncomfortable with parents monitoring,” said a teacher. “We insist that they just let them be.” Experts said it is normal for such conflicts to arise during this time of crisis. “But it can be reversed if families come together and spend more time on teaching children life skills than forcing them to spend more time on studies or chores. It is a tough time for everyone but we have to help each other out and try to create a healthy environment as much as possible,” said Rupali Shukla, a student counsellor.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/child-parent-conflicts-on-rise-say-experts/articleshow/75227610.cms||Aditi R
April 19, 2020||Vadodara||Gujarat: Amul milk sales down 10-12% despite high supply||VADODARA: In its seven decades journey, India’s home-grown dairy giant has seen it all. Be it riots or curfews, floods or earthquakes, Amul has witnessed all kinds of disasters - manmade or natural. But never in its history has it seen a 10-12 % dip in sale of the most essential commodity – milk. And that too for a period of over 20 days. “We have seen curfews in the past. There were times when we would drive our vehicles to supply milk from most disturbed areas of Ahmedabad to ensure continuous supply of milk to consumers. But such curfews would impact sale only in a particular pocket of a city or state. It was never the case when the entire country was affected for such a long time,” said R S Sodhi, managing director of the Gujarat Co-operative Milk Marketing Federation (GCMMF) that markets brand Amul. Ahead of the nationwide lockdown, the demand for milk and dairy products had increased as people resorted to panic buying. “But soon it tapered. We have witnessed a decline of 10 to 12 % in sales of fresh products as hotels, restaurants, cafes and even roadside ‘chai’ kitlis are closed,” he said. Before lockdown, Amul was selling 140 lakh litres per day (LLPD) milk in Gujarat and markets outside the state which has now reduced to 125 LLPD. In contrast, GCMMF and 18 milk unions which are its members, are currently procuring 255 LLPD milk which is 15% higher compared to the previous year. “A majority of private players have stopped procuring milk from farmers. But we have not stopped production. All our plants are functioning at their full capacity,” he said, adding that the impact could have been more. “Sales could have dipped to 15%-20 % but consumption in homes has increased ,” he said, adding that while sale of fresh products has declines, sale of other dairy products like tetrapack milk, butter, ghee and paneer has gone up in the range of 20 to 50 %.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/amul-milk-sales-down-10-12-despite-high-supply/articleshow/75226610.cms||Prashant Rupera
April 19, 2020||Nagpur||Maharashtra: Two women killed by leopard and tiger||CHANDRAPUR: A leopard and a tiger killed two women in separate attacks in Chandrapur and Gondia districts on Saturday morning. In both the cases, the victims had gone to collect mahua flowers. In the first incident, Nivrutti Mandavgade (40) of village Borda, some 20km from Chandrapur, was attacked and killed by a leopard in compartment No. 491 of the FDCM Lohara range where she had gone with a group of women to collect mahua flowers. Mandavgade’s workmates ran to the village to seek help, but it was too little too late. FDCM officials, who rushed to the spot, gave an ex gratia of Rs25,000 to the victim’s kin and installed 6 camera traps to identify the problem leopard. In the second incident, Anita Tumsare of Mangezari village which is close to the Nagzira tiger reserve in Gondia, too, had gone to the forest to collect mahua flowers. She was accompanied by her family members. Tumsare was attacked and killed by a tiger who dragged her body for almost half a kilometre. Her family members ran back to the village to inform foresters, who, after searching the entire area, found the victim’s mutilated body. This year, predators have so far killed 15 people in Vidarbha. The number of wild attacks has risen after villagers started collecting mahua flowers. Through its April 15 notification, the state government has exempted collection, transportation and processing of forest produce from the lockdown.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/two-women-killed-by-leopard-tiger/articleshow/75227263.cms||Mazhar Ali
April 19, 2020||Goa||SEC takes stock of hostels, hotels to lodge seafarers||Panaji: With preparations afoot to rescue and bring back stranded seafarers, the State Executive Committee (SEC) decided to identify hotels, hostels and accommodation facilities belonging to religious institutions where the seafarers can be quarantined after they are brought back to Goa. The respective district collectors have been directed to inspect hotels, which were earlier identified by the tourism department as suitable quarantine facilities and to also identify availability of similar rooms with the Catholic Church and temple trusts. Similarly, the education department has been asked to prepare a list of suitable hostels affiliated to educational institutions where cruiseliner crew members can be quarantined. Chief secretary Parimal Rai, who heads the SEC, also took stock of the law and order situation, commercial cargo movement, relief shelters and other issues. The principal secretary informed the SEC that there are around 4,500 industries operational in Goa with about 3 lakh to 3.5 lakh workers, operating in 23 industrial areas while about 300 industrial units exist outside industrial areas and in municipal limits. Most of the industrial units have been cleared to commence operations from April 20 with certain staff restrictions. With domestic and international tourists scattered across the state, the SEC also decided to work out a mechanism to bring together all the tourists in the state to a few chosen hotels in order to make it easier for hotels to operate. The excise department has been asked to seal all liqour warehouses and take action against dealers selling alcohol clandestinely. The panchayat department has been asked to disburse Rs 25,000 to each of the 105 financially weak panchayats.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/sec-takes-stock-of-hostels-hotels-to-lodge-seafarers/articleshow/75227614.cms||---
April 19, 2020||Kanpur||Kanpur: Cops to take action against people giving shelter to Tablighi Jamaat members||KANPUR: Police have decided to take stringent action against people who are hiding and not giving information about the Tablighi Jamaat members who had attended the congregation in Delhi. People sheltering these jamaatis would them in a temporary jail set up in a school in Chaubeypur, said a police source. Several Jamaatis, after returning from Nizamuddin Markaz in Delhi, had stayed at various places in the city and met several persons. After the arrest of eight overseas Jamaatis, police investigation revealed that they had moved to several places in the city. “Still, there are severaḤl Jamaatis, who are not coming out and are concealing their travel history. Moreover, their family members are also concealing the facts”, the police source further said. The state government had recently directed the police and the district administration to launch a campaign against the Jamaatis and those people who are protecting them by giving them shelter.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kanpur/cops-to-take-action-against-people-giving-shelter-to-tjs/articleshow/75227611.cms||---
April 19, 2020||Chennai||M K Stalin wants Tamil Nadu govt to reveal cost of rapid testing kits procured||CHENNAI: DMK president M K Stalin on Saturday asked the state government to reveal the number of Covid-19 rapid testing kits purchased, their cost, distribution and other details. He said the government should be transparent about the purchase of rapid testing kits as they are being used to test common people. On Friday morning, the state received 24,000 rapid testing kits from China. They have been distributed to districts and hospitals have started testing people with them. Stalin cited Chhattisgarh minister T S Singh Deo’s Tweet on the price of the kits his state has bought and sought a similar disclosure from the AIADMK-led government. “The Chhattisgarh minister has transparently announced the number of kits purchased, and their price. Similarly, the Tamil Nadu government should announce the number of kits bought, and their price. I am urging disclosure as there should be transparency in government administration,” he said in a Facebook post. The Dravidian party leader also tagged Deo’s post which said: “We are procuring 75,000 high quality rapid testing kits at a benchmark price of Rs 337+GST from a South Korean company based in India, which has proven to be the lowest bidder. The rate we have been able to close at is the lowest in India.” On April 17, Stalin had hit out at chief minister Edappadi K Palaniswami for his expectation that the number of fresh Covid-19 cases will reduce to zero and demanded expeditious steps to procure equipment, carry out rapid testing, besides measures for treatment, relief and rehabilitation.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/stalin-wants-govt-to-reveal-cost-of-rapid-testing-kits-procured/articleshow/75227613.cms||---
April 19, 2020||Hubballi||SI on lockdown duty dies in accident||BELAGAVI: A 58-year-old sub-inspector attached to the Khade Bazar police station died in a road accident here on Saturday while he was on his way to oversee the implementation of Covid-19 lockdown in his jurisdictional areas. Manohar Ganachari, a resident of Vadagavi, succumbed to injuries he sustained after his bike skidded on KLE Hospital Road. Union minister of state of railways Suresh Angadi and Belagavi district-in-charge minister Jagadish Shettar paid homage to the deceased. In another incident, K Kallappa, a constable at Camp police station, died on Saturday following a brief illness. He was under treatment since a week and was suffering from a condition which caused low white blood cells count in him.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hubballi/si-on-lockdown-duty-dies-in-accident/articleshow/75223021.cms||---
April 19, 2020||Chennai||Courts in Tamil Nadu, Puducherry give up summer break||CHENNAI: The Madras high court has decided to forego its usual four-week summer break as it has suffered near-closure since the lockdown began on March 25. Summer vacation of all subordinate courts in Tamil Nadu and Puducherry too has been kept in abeyance. Noting that both the principal bench in Chennai and its Madurai bench will continue to function regularly from May 1 to May 31, the notification issued by the high court registry said: “It is hereby notified that due to the extraordinary situation that has emerged on account of spread of Covid-19 pandemic and in view of the limited nature of functioning of the high court due to the lockdown in Tamil Nadu and in order to ensure full and effective functioning of the high court, the summer vacation of the court stands postponed sine die subject to any decision being taken in the future.” Through a separate official memorandum, the high court declared that the summer vacation of all the subordinate courts in the Tamil Nadu and Puducherry are being kept in abeyance. All these courts shall function regularly during the period, it added. This apart, the administrative committee of the court headed by the Chief Justice A P Sahi also resolved to continue the present mode of restrictive functioning by taking up only emergency and urgent matters till May 3.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/courts-in-tn-pondy-give-up-summer-break/articleshow/75227618.cms||---
April 19, 2020||Nagpur||Akola hottest as temps rise across Vidarbha||Nagpur: The mercury is rising in the region , with most districts crossing the 40 degree Celsius mark. Akola was the hottest in India on Friday. On Friday, Nagpur recorded the highest maximum temperature of the season till now at 43.4 degree Celsius. This was nearly three degrees above the normal. Nagpur was the second hottest. At 43.8 degree Celsius, Akola was the hottest not just in Vidarbha but in the entire country. On Saturday too, the maximum temperatures throughout in the region were above 40 degree Celsius apart from Buldhana, which had a maximum of 39.6 degrees. Akola continued to be the hottest in the region. According to the forecast of Regional Meteorological Centre (RMC), Nagpur, the coming week is going to be hotter for the city. The maximum temperatures are expected to go as high as 43-44 degree Celsius. Nights are expected to get warmer too with the minimum temperatures rising to 24 degree Celsius. Till now, there is no warning for heatwave in the region.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/akola-hottest-as-temps-rise-across-vidarbha/articleshow/75227270.cms||---
April 19, 2020||Kolhapur||Sugar cane workers can go home after check-up||Kolhapur: The district administration and sugar mills, where the workers are staying, have initiated steps to send them home after conducting medical examination and ensuring that they are fit. The state government on Friday decided to allow cane cutters to return home. Most cane workers migrate from Marathwada to work in the cane fields in western Maharashtra. According to state government, as many as 1.31 lakh sugarcane workers are living in temporary shelters on the premises of 38 sugar cane factories in the state. Arun Kakade, district deputy registrar, Kolhapur, said they had started gathering information about the sugarcane workers living in the temporary shelters and in the premises of the sugar mills in the district. “The sugar mills have been asked to make a proper list of the sugarcane workers staying in their premises with details including their names and detailed address of the native places, taluka and district. Once the list is prepared, they have been asked to conduct medical examination of all these people,” he said. Once the health examination is done, the names and addresses of the workers will have to be submitted to the district collector for getting approval to send them home. “After the collector grants the approval, we will convey the message to the police officials concerned. They will escort these workers to Kolhapur district border and hand them over to Sangli district police. All information will be shared with the police till the workers reach their destination,” he said. The mill administrations have been asked to gather information about the cattle these workers have with them. When the lockdown was announced, a total 14,000 sugarcane workers along with 5,000 cattle were staying at the premises of seven sugar mills in Kolhapur district.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolhapur/sugar-cane-workers-can-go-home-after-check-up/articleshow/75227269.cms||Vivek Waghmode
April 19, 2020||Puducherry||Courts in Tamil Nadu, Puducherry give up summer break||CHENNAI: The Madras high court has decided to forego its usual four-week summer break as it has suffered near-closure since the lockdown began on March 25. Summer vacation of all subordinate courts in Tamil Nadu and Puducherry too has been kept in abeyance. Noting that both the principal bench in Chennai and its Madurai bench will continue to function regularly from May 1 to May 31, the notification issued by the high court registry said: “It is hereby notified that due to the extraordinary situation that has emerged on account of spread of Covid-19 pandemic and in view of the limited nature of functioning of the high court due to the lockdown in Tamil Nadu and in order to ensure full and effective functioning of the high court, the summer vacation of the court stands postponed sine die subject to any decision being taken in the future.” Through a separate official memorandum, the high court declared that the summer vacation of all the subordinate courts in the Tamil Nadu and Puducherry are being kept in abeyance. All these courts shall function regularly during the period, it added. This apart, the administrative committee of the court headed by the Chief Justice A P Sahi also resolved to continue the present mode of restrictive functioning by taking up only emergency and urgent matters till May 3.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/puducherry/courts-in-tn-pondy-give-up-summer-break/articleshow/75232505.cms||---
April 19, 2020||Ahmedabad||Khedawala’s associates allege communication delay||Ahmedabad: Yasin Mandosarwala, 56, a close associate of Jamalpur MLA Imran Khedawala had gone to meet the latter at SVP hospital on the day of his admission, four days ago. Yasin received a call from the municipal contact tracing medical staff that he needs to get himself tested as he had met Khedawala. Yasin agreed and also convinced 12 members of his family staying at Kazi ka Dhaba in Jamalpur area to undergo tests too. Till Saturday morning he was awaiting his results and assumed that he and his family members had tested negative. But a municipal list for Covid-19 patients circulated on a social media platform on Saturday carried his name and eight members of his family. Surprised, Yasin was following up with municipal authorities at the zonal office, the central office and finally with the office of the principal secretary for health office if the list circulated was real. It was only by 6:15pm that a bus from the civil hospital arrived to carry him and his family members to the hospital. "I was surprised why no one among municipal authorities had contacted him if his name was on the list," says Mandosarwala. "We were told that the results were negative till Friday night and by Saturday morning I was following up on my family members name on the list. They show no symptoms. How will other people have faith in the health system. Now they have transferred my family to civil hospital at Asarwa," says Mandosarwala. A similar experience was shared by another patient Shehzad Yusuf Saiyed , son of former municipal councillor late Yusuf Saiyed. "Till Friday my name was not on the list. I too had gone to see Imran Khedawala, but I was more than five feet away from him. Till Friday night, I was under the impression that I had tested negative. They should have informed me on Friday night. But on Saturday, only after we followed up the case that authorities sent the vehicle," said Shehzad.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/khedawalas-associates-allege-communication-delay/articleshow/75227326.cms||---
April 19, 2020||Hubballi||Hubballi: Five booked for mass prayer in Savanur||HAVERI: Savanur police booked five people for allegedly attending a mass prayer at Shukravar Mosque in the town on Friday. Police had resorted to lathi-charge to disperse the gathering which had violated the Covid-19 lockdown and Section 144. On Saturday, tahsildar Mallikarjun Heggannavar filed a written complaint against Rajahmed Pathan, Fazalahmed Khan Pathan, Jakeerahmed Parash, Nennemia Bannur and Sadiq Maniyar. About 35 people have been mentioned in the FIR. The accused were booked under various sections of the IPC and provisions of the Disaster Management Act and Epidemic Diseases Act.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hubballi/5-booked-for-mass-prayer-in-savanur/articleshow/75222066.cms||---
April 19, 2020||Madurai||Star hotels in city offer takeaway for nominal prices||Madurai: As Madurai has been identified as one of the hotspots for Covid-19, people, who are already following lockdown, are missing out on dining out experiences. While many restaurants have started the takeaway options, star hotels that are sought after for their luxurious dining experience have also decided to take this initiative and start the takeaway option with their food priced at lower range.Heritage Madurai, a luxury hotel in a sprawling green campus, is a place where the elite of the city dined and celebrated their important functions. Now, for the first time, people from all sections of the society will get an opportunity to taste their food through their takeaway option, which was launched a few days ago. General manager, Heritage Madurai, Abraham Anu, said that this is a new concept that they have decided to offer the people of Madurai. They have advertised about their move through social media groups, however, the response till date has been lukewarm, he said and added that he expects the patronage to increase once the lockdown measures are eased. “We are not compromising the quality or quantity and do not offer everything that is usually served on our menu. But, we have priced it nominally, which is much less than our usual price,” he said. Their biryanis, for instance, ranged between Rs 450 to Rs 550 per plate before the lockdown period, but now it is priced between Rs 300 to Rs 350.The usual food delivery systems are not available, said Anu. He said that he would not like to put his employees, about 27 of them, who are at the hotel because they could not go home, at risk by sending them out. Hence, people will have to pick up the orders.The other star hotel that has made a similar move is Regency Madurai by GRT Hotels. Senior general manager of the hotel, N Mohammed Sheriff, said that they are processing about 10 luncheon orders per day. “A well designed menu can help the people to overcome their cravings for hotel food after three consecutive weeks of home food, and offer the much needed break,” he said. Madurai’s foodies group on social media, ‘Where Madurai Eats’ applauded this move. “I would love to eat star hotel food and I know that hygiene standards would be good, but do not want to be booked for breaking the lockdown rules, so waiting for them to be eased,” said K Shanmugam of K K Nagar. These hotels are ensuring that packaging is of star hotel standards to make the meal experience good for customers. People, who come to pick up their parcels, are asked to sanitize their hands and scanned with a thermal scanner before the parcel is handed over .||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/star-hotels-in-city-offer-takeaway-for-nominal-prices/articleshow/75227625.cms||---
April 19, 2020||Kolhapur||Man in Satara recovers, discharged from hospital||Kolhapur: A 35-year-old man who was admitted to Krishna hospital in Karad in Satara district for Covid-19 was discharged on Saturday after his throat swab sample reports tested negative twice for the contagion. The man came out of the hospital amid the clapping from the hospital staff. Dean of Krishna hospital A Y Kshirsagar presented him a bouquet of flowers in the presence of senior government officials. The man, who had come to a village near Karad from Mumbai, had started showing symptoms associated with Covid-19 around two weeks ago. He was kept in isolation at Krishna hospital. His throat swab sample reports on the 14th and 15th day tested negative, after which he was discharged. Earlier, a woman patient was discharged from Satara civil hospital after her throat swab samples tested negative for Covid-19 two weeks after she contracted the infection. So far, there have been two deaths in Satara district. Meanwhile, reports of 10 suspects came negative on Saturday. 17 patients have been kept in isolation in Satara district. The administration has collected as many as 648 throat swab samples, of which 11 have tested positive for the contagion. The administration is awaiting the reports of 72 more suspects. Currently, as many as 173 suspects are in institutional quarantine, with four of them getting admitted on Saturday. The district administration has discharged 558 patients who have completed the 14 -day institutional quarantine. 44 locations sealed in Sangli Meanwhile, a majority of the areas in Sangli city were sealed on Friday night to ensure effective implementation of the lockdown. As many as 44 spots, particularly in congested areas, were sealed by the police. Only one route in the 44 locations has been kept open for the supply of essential commodities. Police have also sealed Irwin bridge to avoid unnecessary vehicular movement. sSangli district has not been a surge in the number of Covid-19 positive cases in the last few days.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolhapur/man-in-satara-recovers-discharged-from-hospital/articleshow/75227277.cms||---
April 19, 2020||Hyderabad||Telangana government unlikely to relax lockdown norms till April 30||HYDERABAD: With no let-up in the coronavirus positive cases, more so in Greater Hyderabad limits, the state government is considering continuing the lockdown till April 30 stringently, giving scope for very few relaxations. The government is more worried about growing cases in Hyderabad and has apprehensions that if the lockdown is eased for even some sectors as being allowed by the Centre, it would lead to further progression of cases in the state. The state cabinet is meeting on Sunday to take stock of the situation and discuss the exemptions to be given from lockdown apart from economic situation in the state. The Centre had announced some activities would be allowed from April 30, keeping in view the situation in non-hotspots areas such as farming, daily wage labourers and some selected industries including IT companies with up to 50% strength. The government is of the view, that some exemptions, which are to be given from April 20 by the Centre, have already been given in the state such as agriculture related works and MGNREGS related works engaged by the labourers. Many companies have asked their employees to work from home. The state government also has reservations about permitting construction activity after April 20. “Except some major companies, the labourers are coming from other parts of the city. The government is in dilemma whether to allow major construction companies where labourers are at the site or continue a complete ban on this,” a senior official of the CMO said. According to sources, the Centre said people in service sector like plumbers and electricians are permitted, but there are thousands of people in the city, who cannot be allowed at this juncture. Similarly, since agriculture season is over, there is no need of opening fertiliser and seed shops now. The government is also of the view not to allow dhabas on the highways till April 30 while permitting movement of trucks on the directions of the Centre. Meanwhile, chief minister K Chandrasekhar Rao has instructed the officials to continue measures to prevent spread of coronavirus cases. He said no one should suffer hunger during the lockdown period in the state. The CM held a high-level review meeting on Saturday on containing Covid-19. “The poor should not suffer due to lockdown and should not face any difficulty. This is the reason why the government supplied rice and cash to the white ration cardholders. Identify daily wager workers and extend assistance to them. Agriculture programmes should continue and collectors and public representatives should monitor the procurement centres,” the CM said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/state-govt-unlikely-to-relax-lockdown-norms-till-april-30/articleshow/75227281.cms||Koride Mahesh
April 19, 2020||Hyderabad||Telangana govt awaits 20,000 hamalis from Bihar for loading paddy||HYDERABAD: With paddy harvesting at its peak, Telangana has deployed harvesters but is desperately missing the services of 20,000 hamalis (workers) from Bihar for loading and unloading of paddy, rice and other agriculture produce. The workers had gone to Bihar from Telangana for Holi festival and could not return for during paddy harvest due to the country-wide lockdown. Now, the Telangana government along with the rice millers’ association has started making efforts to bring back these hamalis. The rice millers have the contact numbers of the hamalis and their guttedars (handlers) and have started contacting them. However, wives of many of these hamalis are not willing to send back their better halves due to the fear of coronavirus infection. Several women want their husbands to stay at home even without income. The Telangana government, on its part, has urged its Bihar counterpart to grant permission for the workforce to be transported to Telangana in special buses after conducting Covid-19 tests and maintaining social distancing norm during travel. Chief secretary Somesh Kumar has also sent a list of over 5,000 workers who are staying in various districts of Bihar and who have given their consent to come to work if provided with transportation facility. The CS has taken up the issue with his counterpart in Bihar and other states en route to Telangana to seek necessary permissions for transportation of the hamalis from Bihar to Telangana. Telangana Rice Millers’ Association secretary V Mohan Reddy told TOI that this hamali workforce specialises in packing the paddy in gunny bags, weighing it and them uploading in the truck in the fields and again loading paddy and rice at rice mills and FCI warehouses. Each worker earns anywhere between Rs 1,000 and Rs 1500 per day during peak season i.e. April and May every year. “Though there are other migrant labourers from construction, industries and other sectors available in the state, they cannot handle the paddy, rice loading and unloading. These hamalis from Bihar have been doing it for years now,” Mohan Reddy said and added about 10,000 hamalis from Bihar have given their consent to come to Telangana. A guttedar from Khagaria district in Bihar said: “Some women are not willing to send their better halves but large number of men are ready to come after convincing their better halves. If everything works out between the government to government negotiations, we will be sending our workforce,” he said. Telangana is expecting a bumper paddy crop of 1.05 crore metric tonnes, the harvest of which has already commenced.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/state-govt-awaits-20k-hamalis-from-bihar-for-loading-paddy/articleshow/75226512.cms||Roushan Ali
April 19, 2020||Kanpur||Buses arrive with stranded students from Rajasthan||JHANSI/LUCKNOW : More than 7,000 students who were stranded in Kota, returned to Uttar Pradesh on Saturday, a day after the state government sent 252 buses to bring back them back. Around 100 of these buses arrived in Jhansi on Saturday afternoon and the students were sent to their final destinations after carrying out a medical screening. Chief minister Yogi Adityanath’s decision to bring back the students, many of whom were enrolled in medical and engineering coaching centres in Kota, got support from Opposition parties in UP, with both BSP and SP welcoming the move. However, they also questioned why the government did not show similar consideration for the thousands of migrant workers. SP national president Akhilesh Yadav tweeted: “We welcome the decision to bring back students who were stuck in Rajasthan’s Kota. However, what is being done to bring back poor people from other states who are suffering tremendously due to lack of food? Why are nodal officers not taking calls?” Similarly, BSP chief Mayawati, while welcoming the move by the government, said: “I also request the government to show similar concern for the lakhs of poor migrant labourers and their families who are being forced to lead a difficult life away from home.” “Once students reach, a health check-up will be carried out for each, along with a rapid sampling test for COVID-19. If their results are clear, they will be sent home after their parents sign an undertaking that they will keep their child in home quarantine for 14 days,” said an official. If a student tests positive, another test will be carried out and he or she will be admitted to hospital, the official said. The CM’s helpline will be used to call all students who have returned from Kota and ensure that they are adhering to the quarantine rules.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kanpur/buses-arrive-with-stranded-students-from-rajasthan/articleshow/75227617.cms||Neha Lalchandani
April 19, 2020||Ahmedabad||Mob loots food kits in Gulbai Tekra||Ahmedabad: Gujarat University police on Friday registered an FIR against a mob of around 70-80 people for robbing food kits brought by AMC for residents of Gulbahi Tekra which was cluster-quarantined on Thursday. According to the FIR lodged by police, AMC officials had come with food kits for the local residents in an open truck and had unloaded the kits on the road. “When the residents saw the kits, they broke the barricade and a mob of 7-80 people rushed for the food. They snatched the kits and went inside the slum. Some were not wearing masks. We tried to stop them, but they pushed us aside and fled with the kits,” said a police official. Police sources said reinforcements were called in, but the food kits had been lost by the time they arrived. “We have registered a case under Sections 188, 186 and Section 3, Epidemic Diseases Act against the mob and have named eight persons in the FIR,” said a police official.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/mob-loots-food-kits-in-gulbai-tekra/articleshow/75227325.cms||---
April 19, 2020||Goa||Academics to help panchayats draw up economic devpt plan||Panaji: The state government will rope in professors to prepare a plan for the economic development of panchayats. CM Pramod Sawant held a direct interaction with 168 sarpanchas on Friday via teleconference and discussed with them the measures adopted by the state government to fight coronavirus. “In the wake of Covid-19 it has been observed that we are depending on neighboring states for everything and therefore the panchayats should initiate efforts for its own effective functioning,” he said. Sawant said thateach panchayat will be given the services of five professors to facilitate it prepare a developmental plan and submit the same to the government. “This will help achieve development of the panchayat areas,” he said. Sawant appealed to the people to remain vigilant from April 20 onwards. He also urged panchayats to inform the police and medical officers if any unknown person found moving around especially when the state government has sealed all the eight entry points into the state. Saying that it will be mandatory to wear masks from April 20, he said the door-to-door survey conducted by the government received tremendous response. “So far, a survey of five lakhs houses has been conducted,” he said. He urged the panchayats to pay attention to extend the benefit under Pradhan Mantri Garib Kalyan Yojana (PMGKY). Stating that most of the panchayats have completed the pre-monsoon work in their jurisdiction, chief minister said that the government has allocated financial grants to all civic bodies during the current crisis. He urged the sarpanchas to utilise these funds and approach the director of panchayat in case more funds are required.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/academics-to-help-panchayats-draw-up-economic-devpt-plan/articleshow/75227624.cms||---
April 19, 2020||Hyderabad||Another Hyderabad cop tests positive for Covid-19||HYDERABAD: Another policeman from central zone of the Hyderabad police commissionerate has contracted Covid-19. As the 35-year-old was in quarantine at King Koti hospital, he was moved to Gandhi Hospital on Saturday for treatment after his test result came positive. Ironically, the constable got infected despite taking precautions like wearing gloves, masks and other safety gear while performing duties at a check post. His family members and six colleagues were also sent to state-run quarantine centres. With the latest case, three policemen have contracted coronavirus in the state till date. A week ago, the 35-year-old constable was feeling body pains and two days later he went down with fever. On learning about his health, senior officers sent him to a government hospital to undergo test since his symptoms resembled that of Covid-19. On Saturday, the report concluded that the constable was positive for coronavirus. Immediately, the officials started identifying his primary contacts and directed his wife and two children to go to state-run quarantine. Similarly, a sub-inspector and five constables were also sent to quarantine since the constable was in touch with them while performing duties. Police suspect the constable might have got infected while performing duties at a check post.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/another-hyd-cop-tests-ve-for-virus/articleshow/75227290.cms||---
April 19, 2020||Kolhapur||Solapur man contracts infection from +ve patient, tally now 14||Kolhapur: Solapur city reported one more Covid-19 positive patient on Saturday, taking the tally of positive cases to 14 in the district. Confirming the new Covid-19 positive patient, collector Milind Shambharkar said that the district administration has collected throat swab samples of 669 people, 590 of which are negative. He confirmed that while the throat swab samples of 14 patients have tested positive for Covid-19, reports of 165 are still awaited. Officials from the district administration said the report of the person, whose swab sample was collected after tracing, returned positive on Saturday morning. The patient had come into contact with a woman who had already contracted the infection. The woman was also identified during the tracing activity after the first patient was found in Pacha Peth area. While Solapur city and district did not have a single patient for a long time, the gradual surge in the number of patients has put the district administration on alert. A majority of the patients in Solapur city are from Pacha Peth area, from where the first patient was found. A 56-year-old patient from this area died last week. The administration is baffled as the first patient did not have any travel history. His family members said that most of the time, he used to be at home because of a leg surgery and was not able to move a lot. The administration has identified the people in the high-risk category. Officials are concerned as the reports of the 165 suspects which are awaited, a majority of them are from Pacha Peth area. Till Thursday, the total number of positive cases was 10. A man from Mumabi, who had come to Solapur last week, tested positive for Covid-19. The man is from Raviwar peth. The administration has declared both Pacha Peth and Raviwar Peth as cluster containment zones where no vehicular movement is permissible. Some relaxations will be granted to citizens for buying essential commodities. The administration has started tracing the contacts of the two patients, who tested positive in the last two days.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolhapur/solapur-man-contracts-infection-from-ve-patient-tally-now-14/articleshow/75227284.cms||---
April 19, 2020||Ahmedabad||Gujarat: Man booked for fake post on CM Vijay Rupani||AHMEDABAD: Cyber crime police station registered an offence under Section 505(1) b of the IPC and Section 54 of the Epidemic Diseases Act against the person behind the Facebook account under the name Faisalkhan Yusufzai for falsely posting that Gujarat chief minister Vijay Rupani had tested positive for the novel coronavirus. Officials said no such report about the CM’s health has been received and no such announcement has been made. “We have contacted the service provider to obtain the IP log address of the device from which this post has made on Facebook. The post being provocation, as it could create a law and order situation, the account holder has been booked and will soon be arrested,” said a cyber cell official. In another case, a Facebook account holder was booked for use of abusive language. “We have booked him under the IT Act,” an official said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/man-booked-for-fake-post-on-cm-rupani/articleshow/75227324.cms||---
April 19, 2020||Rajkot||Gujarat: Man cuts off his tongue to ‘stop’ Covid-19 spread||PALANPUR: A 24-year-old migrant from Madhya Pradesh chopped off his tongue, reportedly as a sacrifice to please a deity to halt the spread of novel coronavirus in the country. The incident happened in Nadeshwari of Banaskantha district’s Suigam taluka. The village is located about 18 km from the Indo-Pak border. Vivek Sharma, from Morena district in MP, was employed with eight other stone sculptors to work on extension of Bhavani Mata temple in Suigam. He has been working here for the past two months with others, including his brother Shivam. Sharma's co-worker Brijesh Singh Saab Singh told police the former was a devotee of Kaali Mata and kept chanting the deity's name. On Saturday morning, he left Bhavani temple saying he was going to the market. However, when he did not return, his brother called his mobile phone. Someone answered and told him Vivek had chopped off his tongue at the Nadeshwari temple. Sharma was found with tongue in handWhile complaint lodged at Suigam states that Sharma did this in a fit of rage, department sources said that he thought the tongue sacrifice would please Nadeshwari Mataji and stop the coronavirus spread. “For the last few days, he was keen to go back to his native town in Madhya Pradesh. But it was impossible due to lockdown. Today, in reckless abandon he chopped off his tongue,” said HD Parmar, police sub-inspector, Suigam. “We found him lying unconscious in the temple premises with the tongue in his hand. The priest called the Border Security Force (BSF) commander and Sharma was shifted to a hospital in Tharad town where doctors are trying to reattach his tongue,” said Parmar. SK Vala, Tharad DSP said, “Only after thorough investigation, we will know the exact reason for such a step.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/mp-man-chops-off-his-tongue-to-stop-covid-spread/articleshow/75226535.cms||---
April 19, 2020||Hyderabad||Leopard died after eating poisoned deer, says report||HYDERABAD: A leopard that was found dead on the outskirts of Kasulabad village of Mirudoddi mandal in Siddipet district on Thursday, had died after feeding on a deer that had consumed toxic grass, as per the postmortem report. The veterinarians who conducted the postmortem said that the leopard had blood clots in the heart and deer’s meat in the intestines with traces of toxic grass consumed by the deer before it was killed. “Although not deliberate, I suspect that the leopard might have died due to poisoning. The grass which was consumed by the herbivore might have been toxic and eventually killed the leopard. Some juvenile species of grass such as sorghum which is a feed source that can be grazed by cattle or other herbivorous animals can cause poisoning, especially before ripening,” said Chepuri Sridhar Rao, divisional forest officer, Siddipet. Forest department officials also stated that investigation into the case revealed that the leopard could be the same one that had killed cattle in Gajagatlapally village nearly four days ago and migrated to Kasulabad village. “The leopard is not local to this area. This might be the same leopard which made a kill in Gajagatlapally. Otherwise, we did not come across any sign or evidence that shows presence of a big cat in this area in the last one-and-half years. The last sighting of a leopard in this area, according to the villagers, was nearly 25 years ago,” the forest officials told TOI.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/leopard-died-after-eating-poisoned-deer-says-report/articleshow/75226526.cms||Moulika.KV
April 19, 2020||Hyderabad||Disabled man, wife run over by car||Hyderabad: A disabled man and his wife were run over by a car while crossing the road after collecting pension from a bank in Rampur in Warangal district on Saturday. Police found CCTV footage of the accident. However, no arrests were made in the case till last reports came in. The two victims were identified as Naini Ilaiah, 58, and Naini Venkatalaxmi, 52, both residents of Rampur. Ilaiah had a disability in his legs. Around 10.50am, after collecting pension from a bank, the couple started walking towards their home when the accident occurred near VMR Polytechnic College, Dharmasagar police said. “A speeding car hit them while they were crossing the road. We have the car’s registration number,” Dharmasagar inspector Mohammed Baba said. The victims sustained severe head injuries and died on the spot. The car driver, who was travelling from Warangal towards Hyderabad, escaped from the spot. A case was registered under Section 304 (A) (causing death by negligence) of the IPC.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/disabled-man-wife-run-over-by-car/articleshow/75226517.cms||---
April 19, 2020||Aurangabad||Covid-19 positive woman gives birth to girl||Aurangabad: A woman who has tested positive for Covid-19 has delivered a baby girl at the district civil hospital here at 12.40 pm on Saturday, and the infant has been moved to the post-operative room. All eyes are on the baby whose swab samples have been sent for testing, although internationally there has been no known case of any baby getting the infection through mother. The team of doctors at district civil hospital, including gynecologist Kamlakar Mudkhedkar, Kavita Jadhav, anaesthesiologist PM Kulkarni, pediatrician Bharti Nagare conducted a C-section on the woman, and the baby weighed 3.1kg. District civil surgeon Sundar Kulkarni said that the three swabs of the newborn were collected in the operation theatre for Covid-19 analysis. “The baby cried well after the delivery. The mother and newborn are fine and their vital stats are stable. The baby has been shifted to post-operative room,” paediatrician Santosh Naikwade said on behalf of the district civil surgeon. The district administration learned that the woman, along with her husband and stepson, entered Aurangabad district in an ambulance on April 10. They were staying at their relative’s place in Baijipura. On April 13, the woman’s 17-year-old stepson was taken to district civil hospital with coronavirus symptoms. He tested positive on April 14. Two days later, the woman too tested positive. According to civic health officer Nita Padalkar, the woman’s husband, who has tested negative for the infection, is not cooperating with the civic body in its effort to identify the source of the infection or in containing spread. The civic body has sealed Baijipura locality and is screening all high-risk and low-risk contacts.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/covid-19-positive-woman-gives-birth-to-girl/articleshow/75226540.cms||Arpita Sharad
April 19, 2020||Madurai||Semi-wholesale shops open for 4hours, but no business on day 1||Madurai: Semi-wholesale shops, which sell essentials to small grocery stores, were allowed to open for business on Saturday onwards with certain conditions in order to ensure that the latter do not run out of stocks. Although a sizeable number of shops were opened, sales were dull on day one. There are around 300 semi-wholesale shops in East Masi Street and estimated 6,000 small stores throughout the city. The district administration on Friday permitted them to operate between 6am and 10am with conditions that they should not entertain end customers directly to avoid crowd gathering, only door delivery is permitted and they should get pass for vehicle and delivery man. Only one vehicle for each shop and one delivery man will be allowed. R Thanraj, a semi-wholesaler said that a few of his customers, who were on their way were stopped midway. So, he had to close shop by 10am without even making a single sale. “What is the point of allowing us to open if vehicles of customers are not allowed. Already, we have faced heavy loss due to prolonged closure and this would only add insult to injury,” he said. A police officer said the issue was due to communication gap. There is clear information from the district collector that the onus is on shopkeepers to arrange vehicles and delivery of goods at the doorsteps of the small shop. They need to get prior orders and make sure that goods are delivered during the four-hour window. S P Jeyaprakasam, president of Tamil Nadu food grains merchants’ association said the issue will be sorted in a couple of days. They had experienced such issues when wholesale trading was allowed to operate after streamlining.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/semi-wholesale-shops-open-for-4hours-but-no-business-on-day-1/articleshow/75227627.cms||---
April 19, 2020||Hyderabad||Telangana: Coal miner’s body found after 11 days||HYDERABAD: The body of an underground mine worker in Singareni Collieries Company Limited (SCCL) who went ‘missing’ at a mine in Ramagundam was retrieved after 11 days on Friday. The body of 58-year-old Kodem Sanjeev was retrieved after a rescue team from Hyderabad got into the GDK 11 incline at Ramagundam. The body was found at the GDK 6A-43rd level in the mine. Sources said this is the first time that it took as many as 11 days to trace out a person and retrieve the body. Incidents in the past took four or five days. Sanjeev had been sent inside as a pump operator to pump out the water from the mine. Sanjeev had reported for work on April 7 for the first shift. However, when the second shift workers arrived at 2 pm, they did not see him. His family members and workers found his two-wheeler parked at his usual place and the clothes that he wore before changing into the uniform were also there. This indicated he had not come out. Though search operations were carried out, he could not be located. On Friday, BMS leader Riaz Ahmed accompanied a rescue team from Hyderabad to carry out search operations at the mine. Labour unions on Saturday expressed surprise that the management took 11 days for tracing him and demanded Rs 50 lakh ex-gratia be paid to Sanjeev’s family in addition to the benefits that they are due. The unions also demanded another Rs 50 lakh to the family for the trauma they suffered for 11 days. Workers said the cause of Sanjeev’s death will be known after the post-mortem report comes.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/coal-miners-body-found-after-11-days/articleshow/75226543.cms||Ch Sushil Rao
April 19, 2020||Nagpur||Medicos struggling to stay fit while treating Covid-19 patients||Nagpur: Doctors and health workers in the Covid-19 isolation wards are not only shouldering the important responsibility of treating the patients but are also dealing with challenges to keep themselves fit and free from infection. Mostly resident doctors, and those under 45 years of age, are given responsibility to take care of Covid-19 patients. TOI spoke to such health workers in Nagpur, Yavatmal and Akola, places having more than 10 Covid-19 patients admitted in government hospitals there. “PPE kits are not the problem, at least in the isolation wards. We are getting proper kits while working in Covid-19 wards. But wearing the entire protective gear continuously for four hours is tough,” said a resident doctor from GMCH. Earlier, these doctors and nurses working in Covid-19 wards had six hours shift, which was reduced to four hours recently. Currently, 26 Covid-19 positive patients are admitted at GMCH. More teams of doctors are now being engaged in the Covid-19 ward. Each team works here for 14 days, after which they get a break and duties in other wards. During this 14-days, doctors have to quarantine themselves in the hostel rooms or at homes. Many doctors in Nagpur GMCH and IGGMCH told TOI that they avoid mixing up with their family members and stay in separate rooms. They also have their lunch and dinner separately. According to a doctor from Yavatmal GMCH, wearing and removing personal protective equipment (PPE) kits is also a task. “Right from goggles to face shields, gloves, hair covers and masks, everything is to be worn and removed as per protocol. We can’t leave the ward for any personal work during the four-hour duty. If there is emergency, we have to first arrange a replacement,” she said. Nurses and support staff, including sanitary workers have their own issues. “Doctors get proper PPE gear but not all nurses and support staff. Many of us get only masks and hand gloves,” said a nurse from Yavatmal. One nurse working in Yavatmal GMCH isolation ward has already developed symptoms and was tested negative. Health workers in GMCH get themselves tested on a regular basis. “In case we develop symptoms, testing is the only option. But there is no protocol to test every doctor or nurse working in Covid-19 ward. In fact it should be there,” said another resident from Nagpur. Doctors in Nagpur will get proper face shields soon.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/medicos-struggling-to-stay-fit-while-treating-covid-19-patients/articleshow/75227297.cms||Chaitanya Deshpande
April 19, 2020||Ahmedabad||NFSA holders to get Rs 1,000||Gandhinagar: Gujarat government on Saturday announced that it will implement the scheme of DBT (direct benefit transfer) of Rs 1,000 per NFSA card holder as a relief in the lockdown period. Ashwani Kumar, secretary to the CM, said, “The CM announced that 66 lakh NFSA card holders will get a sum of Rs 1,000 each as financial aid for April.” The state government will bear an additional burden of Rs 660 crore under the scheme. The official said the decision has been taken in order to ensure that the poor and the labourers have money to take care of their expenses amidst the lockdown. TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/nfsa-holders-to-get-rs-1000/articleshow/75227322.cms||---
April 19, 2020||Dehradun||Char Dham yatra, which saw 32 lakh devotees, last year, sees one-third bookings cancelled||DEHRADUN: The Covid-19 crisis has cast a shadow on the popular Char Dham yatra as well. One-third of advance bookings — which was set to begin on April 26 — have been cancelled. But in an effort to cut down on its losses -- and what has come as respite for the pilgrims -- the Uttarakhand tourism department while urging yatris not to cancel their tickets has announced they would be allowed to undertake the pilgrimage any time in the next two years. The Char Dham yatra to the shrines of Kedarnath, Badrinath, Yamunotri and Gangotri had registered its highest ever footfall of over 32 lakh devotees in 2019 and a huge turnout was predicted this year as well. But bookings for the months of April, May and June have been cancelled due to the ongoing lockdown and travel curbs, according to SPS Rawat, assistant general manager of Garhwal Mandal Vikas Nigam (GMVN), the nodal agency for the yatra. Advance bookings for the yatra — which includes rest houses, cabs and tour operators — usually begin in January but owing to the massive turnout last year, it was opened in November this year. By March, bookings worth Rs 4 crore had already been finalised by GMVN. But cancellations started in the last few weeks. “We are giving devotees the option to postpone their yatra to later this year or any time in the next two years,” said Rawat. Talking to TOI, tourism minister Satpal Maharaj said, “We were expecting 40 lakh pilgrims this season because the number of those visiting the four shrines had been increasing steadily over the past three years — from 23 lakh pilgrims in 2017 to 32 lakh last year.” Maharaj added that until the lockdown is in place, the shrines would open for aarti but remain closed to public. “We’ll take a decision on opening the temples to devotees once normalcy returns.” The cancellation of bookings is likely to dent footfall numbers and revenue considerably because the first three months of the yatra record high footfalls. Months of April, May and first three weeks of June usually see a high turnout. The numbers dip during monsoon and then rise again between September and October. The Char Dham portals close in October-November every year due to heavy snowfall in the area and re-open in April-May. This year, the yatra was to commence with the opening of portals of Gangotri and Yamunotri on April 26, Kedarnath on April 29 and Badrinath on April 30.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/char-dham-yatra-which-saw-32-lakh-devotees-last-yr-sees-one-third-bookings-cancelled/articleshow/75226538.cms||Kautilya Singh
April 19, 2020||Hyderabad||Akbar urges CM to help BPL Muslims||Hyderabad: Chandrayangutta MLA Akbaruddin Owaisi has urged chief minister K Chandrashekar Rao to provide ration kits and financial aid to poor Muslim families ahead Ramzan. In a letter, the AIMIM leader requested CM Rao to provide financial aid to one crore women who are below the poverty line.Akbaruddin asked the chief minister to direct the minorities welfare department to coordinate with revenue and civil supplies departments and ensure that muslim families woulds receive the assistance before Ramzan. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/akbar-urges-cm-to-help-bpl-muslims/articleshow/75226551.cms||---
April 19, 2020||Aurangabad||Postal department staff delivers grocery to poor people||Aurangabad: The postal department, which is known for mainly delivering letters, has taken up the job of delivering grocery to poor people. The initiative has been taken by a staffers association in Beed. Autorickshaw drivers, porters, construction workers, manual workers, barbers, cobblers, tea and snack vendors, street vendors and self-help group members and others have lost their jobs due to the nationwide lockdown. In order to help these families sustain during the lockdown period, the staff of the post department offered to help. On Saturday, the post staffers purchased the grocery following which they packed it and started giving home delivery. Amar Singh Dhaka, a sub postmaster, said that the postmen are well versed with every locality and know every nook and corner of the town due to the nature of their job. “Taking advantage of their knowledge, we have identified the families who are worst hit due to the lockdown and decided to provide them with kits of grocery comprising rice, wheat, oil and tea. These kits will help a family of four to sustain for a week,” he said. Officials and staffers of the Beed Postal Credit Cooperative Society have contributed Rs 25,000 through which 50 families are being helped. Dhaka said that as more funds are generated we can help more people. “We are accompanied by the postmen who show us the exact household where help is required the most,” Dhaka said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/postal-department-staff-delivers-grocery-to-poor-people/articleshow/75226554.cms||Arpita Sharad
April 19, 2020||Surat||Now, zone-wise quarantine centres in Surat||Surat: Surat Municipal Corporation (SMC) will convert its Samaras Hostel’s quarantine centre into a Covid-19 care centre where it will accommodate asymptomatic patients. It now plans to set up zone-wise quarantine centres across the city. According to SMC commissioner Banchhanidhi Pani, the SMC will start antibody tests from Sunday in Covid-19 hotspots areas of the city. “More cases are being reported from Limbayat zone, especially from Man Darwaja Apartment. We have intensified our community testing and therefore, more Covid-19 positive cases are being reported,” Pani explained. Pani said that as the number of Covid-19 positive cases are on the rise, the number of home quarantine people will also increase. “We request the citizens to download SMC Covid-19 Tracker App for better monitoring of such people and thereby handling the crisis,” he said. The SMC on Saturday issued notices to two private clinics for not updating about patients’ details to the civic body. It also called upon young people to come forward and join as Covid Commandos (volunteers) to help the civic body fight the global pandemic.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/now-zone-wise-quarantine-centres-in-surat/articleshow/75226550.cms||---
April 19, 2020||Hyderabad||SHRC seeks report on labour benefit claims||Hyderabad: The Telangana human rights commission has sought a report from the commissioner of labour after a TOI report regarding the labour department holding benefit claims of construction workers in Mahabubabad. The SHRC was responding to a petition by Achyuta Rao, honorary president of Balula Hakkula Sangham. The commission sought a report on the number of applications pending with the deputy commissioner of labour, Warangal and Mahabubabad range, regarding members who enrolled themselves with labour welfare board for payment. It also sought a report on the number of applications cleared in the past one year.TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/shrc-seeks-report-on-labour-benefit-claims/articleshow/75226556.cms||---
April 19, 2020||Nagpur||Struggling to pay teacher salaries, say schools in Nagpur||NAGPUR: Schools have said that they will really have to stretch their financial resources to cough up teachers’ salaries for April (paid in May) as the fee collection is not up to the desired level. TOI had reported on Saturday about the education department asking schools to refrain from collecting fee till the lockdown is in effect. Some of the schools told TOI that they are thinking of delaying the payment to second week of May, as fee collections would rise if lockdown ends on the scheduled date. A school owner, who did not wish to be named, said, “I am surprised that so many parents, who can afford to pay, have also witheld payment. Don’t we all pay utility bills, grocery bills etc? Then why should school fee payment only be stopped?” Speaking to TOI, honorary secretary of Unaided Schools Forum (USF) SC Kedia said fears of schools are not unfounded. “We will always stand with the government in all its decisions. Recently, the centre and state governments appealed that no retrenchment or salary cuts should be done, and we respect that. At the same time, such expenses like salary is offset by inflow coming from fee. If fee collection is put on hold, that will affect the cash flow of schools,” said Kedia. He said that schools have in fact increased their spending towards student-friendly initiatives. “Many schools have hired outside agencies to carry forward their online classes. This is all being done for the benefit of students so that they can be kept busy in a productive way. But these come with a cost which are added to a school’s expense list,” Kedia added. Another school owner told TOI said that he will push his institution’s finances ‘to the limit’ for giving salaries. “I am in a situation where I had cash flow available for just two months. I have already paid salaries for March (paid in April) and regular loan payments are also done. Now, there is just enough left for the current month. So, at the most this thing can stretch till May; beyond that, majority of schools will be helpless,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/struggling-to-pay-teacher-salaries-say-schools/articleshow/75227305.cms||Abhishek Choudhari
April 19, 2020||Nagpur||‘Pandemic has compelled everybody to go digital’||With decades of tech experience, Shashikant Chaudhary is a well known serial entrepreneur and angel investor, who has a knack for identifying disruptive technologies early on. Speaking to TOI, he gives an interesting peek into our world’s immediate future, post the lockdown. Excerpts... Q. What will be the new normal post lockdown? A. Living in the virtual world is the new normal. We now will be living in a hybrid world where boundaries between physical and virtual realm will be blurred. This pandemic will force everyone to go digital, so much so that digital will become a way of life. It will be a necessity for survival itself. Q. In what way will our social life be affected? A. Interestingly, there would be new connotation to “social distancing”. People with constant access to the Internet will be more privileged than others, thus increasing the gap between social classes, a new “social distance”. We are about to start new traditions, like not being comfortable with strangers, no shaking hands etc. People would be using tech solutions seamlessly and the role of Internet will become vital for survival. Q. Is the work from home (WFH) concept here to stay? A. Absolutely. In fact, a recent study by Global Workplace Analytics says more than 25% of the employees will continue to WFH on multiple days a week, up from less than 4% pre-coronavirus. So many companies have now realized that a lot of work can be managed from home and even employees are getting comfortable with this format. Q. Has the home now become the fulcrum for everything, from work to entertainment? A. Yes. Now, all experiences will have to be centred around the home. Be it education, entertainment, health, office work, buying groceries and medicine. Companies have to re-work their approaches to get things done and deliver services or products to the new focus — home. For the individual, it’s a survival-first strategy now. Products and services which are essential to survival will be consumed on priority. Q. Which are the top three sectors that will see an immediate impact? A. Education is the first. The shift from offline to online is the new normal and not only tutorial apps, even traditional schools and colleges will have to innovate. In fact, many universities the world over have made their courses open and free. Apart from that, professionals will also continue to upgrade themselves through online content. Entertainment is second. As staying in becomes the new going out, we are already witnessing a huge demand for digital content for entertainment, including social media, gaming, news, video streaming and books as people seek to cope with boredom and fill up the time previously taken by travelling and socializing face-to-face. A lot of online gaming companies are keeping young ones busy. Health care is third. Many aspects of health care will see an increased adoption of technology. Telemedicine and online consulting is a way patients are engaging with doctors. A start-up, Yourphysio from Nagpur, is providing online consultation and physiotherapy sessions to patents who are at home. In fact, they are now serving clients from metros too. The other sectors that will do well are the ones providing the IT infrastructure to enable technology-based services. Q. Some feel that the new converts to tech-based services will revert to offline mode post-lockdown. Your thoughts? A. Typically, when tech usage is more than four hours a day, the technology becomes transparent. In 21 days, people have already developed a muscle memory and are now getting comfortable. These trends are now irreversible as the fear of tech-based apps will be gone due to the daily forced usage.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/pandemic-has-compelled-everybody-to-go-digital/articleshow/75227309.cms||Abhishek Choudhari
April 19, 2020||Vadodara||Vadodara: Cop rejoins duty within hours of sister’s demise||VADODARA: Every single day, since the lockdown, assistant sub-inspector of Vadodara police, Ambalala Morarjibhai, has been visiting senior citizens in the Banyan City to help them cope with difficulties in this crisis. But on Friday, Ambalala took a break for few hours to go home and return to his work. Ambalala did not go to take rest but to attend his sister’s funeral. “By being at her funeral and supporting the family, I performed the duties of a brother, but at the same time I also had to perform a policeman’s duty especially during pandemic,” said Ambalala. His sister had suffered brain haemorrhage as her blood pressure suddenly shot up due to heat which led to her death. “I did not want to leave my work and stay back for long time,” he added. For Ambalala, police service comes with sacrifice and lot of buried hard emotions. The ASI immediately came back to his duty wherein he understands nation comes first. Such high level of responsibility keeps our morale, pride and strength high,” said a senior police official. Ambalala is part of the senior citizen cell of Vadodara police which is very active currently. The cell members visit senior citizens who are living alone and help them if they need anything, be it essential food items, medical help among others. Ambalala, who has been a cop in Vadodara for 30 years, has been part of the cell since its inception in November last year. “Police service comes with sacrifice as we are not thinking about our families while we are working. The ASI came back to his duty on the same day which is an overwhelming work as he understands nation comes first,” said Saroj Kumari, deputy commissioner of police (admin) and head of senior citizen cell.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/cop-rejoins-duty-within-hours-of-sisters-demise/articleshow/75226637.cms||---
April 19, 2020||Aurangabad||65-year-old is city’s third Covid-19 death; teen tests positive||Aurangabad: The city recorded its third coronavirus-related death on Saturday morning when a 65-year-old resident of Bismillah Colony, who was detected with Covid-19 on Thursday, died at 6.50 am while undergoing treatment at the Government Medical College and Hospital (GMCH). The woman had diabetes, hypertension and kidney disease, nodal officer for media interaction at GMCH Arvind Gaikwad said. She was also suffering from pneumonia, he added. The woman was referred to the GMCH from a private hospital on April 13. She was tested by the GMCH for the virus as she had Severe Acute Respiratory Infection (SARI). Her tests were confirmed on Thursday. Aurangabad Municipal Corporation (AMC) health officer Nita Padalkar said the woman’s family has said that she did not have any travel history. However, the source of her infection is yet to be ascertained. “We have screened the high-risk and low-risk contacts of the woman. More than 15 throat swabs have been collected and sent for Covid-19 analysis. She had started showing symptoms a week ago. So, we are investigating who all she came in contact with 14 days before that. According to the family, she had been complaining of respiratory on and off,” Padalkar said. On April 5, a 58-year-old banker from Satara became the first Covid-19 casualty in the city. On April 14, a 68-year-old man, who was the father of 38-year-old Covid-19 patient from Aref Colony, had passed away. Both the deceased men had co-morbidities and died while undergoing treatment at the GMCH. Meanwhile, a 15-year-old boy from Baijipura tested positive for coronavirus late on Friday night. The count of total confirmed Covid-19 cases in the city has now reached 29. The number includes three deaths and two recoveries. As on Saturday evening, 25 patients were admitted at the GMCH as suspected Covid-19 cases. While 23 had tested negative for coronavirus, the swab reports of the remaining two are awaited. The reports of 39 people sent to GMCH from district civil hospital are yet to be received.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/65-year-old-is-citys-third-covid-19-death-teen-tests-positive/articleshow/75226563.cms||Arpita Sharad
April 19, 2020||Surat||Yatimkhana to be used for quarantine||Surat: Surat Islam Yatimkhana Society (SIYS) has offered its building to the SMC to use it as quarantine centre for Covid-19 positive people in the city. The campus is strategically located near Athwagate in the city.  The office bearers of the society said that it was their duty towards the nation to join the fight against the global pandemic. “We have offered a three-storey hostel building to the SMC to be used as quarantine facility for Covid-19. We have a huge kitchen with dinning area spread over 6,000 square feet. The campus has enough space for parking and it is equipped with CCTV,” said the SIYS. The SMC has accepted the offer and started the process to establish a quarantine centre on the SIYS campus. “We will use the SIYS’ building as a quarantine centre and we call upon such trusts in the city to come forward and help us,” said SMC commissioner Pani. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/yatimkhana-to-be-used-for-quarantine/articleshow/75226564.cms||---
April 19, 2020||Ahmedabad||Ahmedabad: Use the AC but with caution this summer, say experts||AHMEDABAD: As the maximum temperature this summer has already breached 41 degrees celsius in Ahmedabad, and with the lockdown extended to May 3, it is difficult for many Amdavadis to sweat it out without airconditioners. Many homes and some corporate offices have cut down on air-conditioning (ACs) following health advisories related to Covid-19 as a means to arrest its spread. However, the Indian Society of Heating, Refrigerating & Air Conditioning Engineers (ISHRAE), a body of practitioners, engineers, academicians and service providers, says that one can run ACs, but with certain conditions to remain healthy and safe. Dr Yash Shukla, technical director at Centre for Advanced Research in Building Science and Energy (CARBSE) of Cept University is part of the task force at ISHRAE that prepared a document ‘COVID-19 Guidance Document for Air Conditioning and Ventilation’, which was released earlier this week. ISHRAE officials said the document was prepared after considering various studies relating to ventilation, indoor air quality, medical advice and the climate of the Indian sub-continent. “The document covers a vast array of equipment ranging from AC used at home to larger air filtration systems in commercial settings and also for hospitals and isolation areas,” said Shukla. He said that the first point is maintaining the right temperature and humidity. “Based on factors related to health and maintenance of the unit, the optimal range is 24 to 30°C. Along with that, one has to maintain relative humidity between 40% and 70%,” he said, adding that higher humidity leads to higher levels of dust mites and fungi, which could affect those with allergic conditions. Another factor is ensuring better filtration – cleaning air filters regularly and using high-efficiency particulate arrester/absorbing (HEPA) filters – in more sensitive settings such as hospitals and patient areas. “While the filters don’t stop the Covid-19 virus itself, the virus often attaches to larger particulates which could be caught by these filters,” he said. The third suggestion is to dilute the air and allowing as much fresh air into the premises as possible by ensuring proper ventilation. Experts said that negative pressure could be created through exhaust fans so that circulation of the same air in a closed space can be prevented. “Recirculation of cool air by room air conditioners must be accompanied by outdoor air intake through slightly open windows and exhaust by natural exfiltration,” the document states.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/use-the-ac-but-with-caution-this-summer-say-experts/articleshow/75227321.cms||Parth Shastri
April 19, 2020||Kolhapur||Maharashtra: Three arrested for setting ablaze nurse’s vehicle in Solapur||KOLHAPUR: Solapur police have arrested three youths who allegedly burned vehicles belonging to a nurse and her husband on Thursday. The nurse had tried convincing the youths to stay at home instead of playing cricket out in the open to prevent the spread of Covid-19. Shrikant Ambadas Yadgiri, Nitin Ambadas Yadgiri and Ambadas Dornal were arrested late on Friday night. According to the complaint lodged by Surekha Pujari, who works as a nurse in a private hospital in Solapur, a group of youths used to play cricket at a ground in front of her house all the time. She tried convincing them to stay home rather than venturing out. On Thursday night, Pujari had an argument with the youths on the same issue. The youths made comments like she was more dangerous since she worked at a hospital and even threatened her with dire consequences. On Friday morning, Pujari found that the two vehicles parked outside the house was charred. Suspecting that it was the handiwork of the youths, Pujari approached the police and lodged a complaint.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolhapur/3-arrested-for-setting-ablaze-nurses-vehicle/articleshow/75227313.cms||---
April 19, 2020||Mangaluru||‘Italians are staying home to remain safe’||Mangaluru: Mangalurean Vaishnavi Pavithran, 22, is a consultant and policy researcher for the social protection unit at the UN World Food Programme headquartered in Rome. She spoke to STOI over phone from Italy. Vaishnavi is the daughter of Pavithran Alokkan and Praveena Pavithran from Mangaluru. We hear of heart-wrenching stories of the effects of the pandemic in Italy. Is it as serious as portrayed? Yes, the numbers are not lying. The pandemic has created quite a bad situation. How is the situation now? The lockdown is 24x7, it isn’t a curfew though. It isn’t scary. Essential workers and those whose work come under certain sectors considered as essential, can travel for work, if one is carrying necessary documentation. The lockdown has been extended till May 3. You can step out to buy supplies from supermarkets. They have already opened pharmacies, and are now opening some small businesses like bookstores and supermarkets. How is the situation in the region where you are working? I am working from home since March 9. I can see some people taking their dogs out for walks, while maintaining social distancing. Everyone is staying at home to stay safe. I work in Rome. Here, cases are low when compared to the northern part. Being at ground zero, do you think the Italian government’s response was delayed in combating the pandemic? Did you not think of flying home in this situation? If you did not, what prevented you from flying home, or if you tried, what were the hurdles due to which you could not come back home? I am working in a humanitarian organisation, and the least I can do in this situation is stay back here and do whatever I can to help people. I am required by the organisation to stay here. We are all international staff. If we all get on a flight to go home, it will be difficult to coordinate from different parts of the world. I also personally thought that I am risking more exposure by going on a flight with other people, who may have been exposed to the virus, than being here in my room. I had enough supplies, and more than that, I have a job. I thought it’s not an immediate threat to my life. Someone else needed to get back home more than me. So, it didn’t feel right to quit and go home, and take away someone else’s seat on the flight, who probably needed to go home more than I did. Covid-19 cases are coming down in Italy. Do you think the curve has flattened? Has the government relaxed the lockdown? The curve has certainly been flattened. The lockdown is still being strictly maintained, so that there are no reversals. Citizens here are being responsible. They stay at home, not just for their safety, but for the safety of others as well. With this challenging experience what’s the message you want to share? Due to my work, I get to read and understand a lot about how this crisis is impacting the world’s poorest and most vulnerable people, and is impacting migrants, internally displaced people as well as children and women from marginalised sections of society. Once this pandemic ends, I can only hope that we move towards a world filled with more kindness, empathy and compassion, where people born with better opportunities, help to create opportunities for people who did not have it when they were born. Vaishnavi studied in Saint Aloysius PU college in Mangaluru, and then did her BCom (honours) from SRCC, Delhi University. She secured three scholarships to pursue her masters from Sciences Po, Paris, in international development,and then joined the UN Food Programme headquarters, as a consultant and policy researcher for the social protection unit.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mangaluru/italians-are-staying-home-to-remain-safe/articleshow/75225599.cms||---
April 19, 2020||Aurangabad||7 held for man’s murder||Aurangabad: Vedantnagar police arrested seven people, including two women, after a 43-year-old man whom they assaulted succumbed to his injuries on late Friday night. The deceased has been identified as Vikas Jhalte, a resident of Banewadi area. Sources in the police said that on Thursday night, Vikas’ brother’s wife was filling water from a public tap, when a few suspects from the locality were ogling at her. The woman and a male member from the family, Prakash, objected to their act. A heated argument ensued during which two of the suspects abused them. The woman told her husband Yuvraj about the matter on Friday. He was brutally assaulted when he reached out to the suspects. Following the incident, Yuvraj and his wife lodged a complaint at Vedantnagar police station. When Vikas learnt about the matter, he too started for Vedantnagar police station. On his way, the suspects assaulted him that left him with a grievous head injury. Family members rushed to the spot and tried taking him to a hospital, but the autorickshaw in which they were taking him ran out of fuel. Later, Vedantnagar police rushed Vikas to Government Medical College and Hospital, where he succumbed to his injury while undergoing treatment.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/7-held-for-mans-murder/articleshow/75226575.cms||---
April 19, 2020||Ahmedabad||Coronavirus outbreak in Gulbai Tekra: Babu bastion in panic||AHMEDABAD/GANDHINAGAR: After the Gulbai Tekra slums, aka ‘Hollywood’, were placed under cluster quarantine, anxiety has been sweeping through the nearby Samarpan government flats. Samarpan is home to top bureaucrats, police officers, and judges. Seven Covid-19 positive cases have been detected at the slums. On Saturday, a battery of municipal health workers disinfected the Samarpan complex. Some officials had disinfectants sprayed within their private premises. The health officials also contacted the seven people with Covid-19 at Gulbai Tekra, and their family members, to determine whether someone they knew had visited or worked at Samarpan. People from the Gulbai Tekra area serve as domestic help at many Samarpan flats, sources said. Moreover, the road between Samarpan and Gulbai Tekra is regularly used by senior IAS and IPS officers and their family members. On Monday, a single person from the slums had tested positive for Covid-19. Over the next 24 hours, the Ahmedabad Municipal Corporation (AMC) launched one of the largest health surveillance drives involving close to 10,000 residents of the slums. The corporation fished out 206 cases with apparent symptoms, tested 200 people, and then isolated the positive cases by Wednesday morning. A senior officer who lives in the Samarpan complex said, “Our domestic help come from the Gulbai Tekra area. But we had asked them not to report for duty after the first case of Covid-19 emerged in the city.” The officer went on to say: “Many had stopped work earlier. However, a few members of the society had their domestic help come over as recently as two days ago. So there certainly is panic in the society.” The officer said that fortunately no case has been registered at Samarpan. “We have locked all gates of the society and police officers have ensured that no outsider enters,” another senior officer said. “Only those officers who have to report to duty venture out of the society and they take all precautions while returning home.” Other major high-profile localities, especially Judges Bungalows —where high court judges and senior IAS and IPS officers live — are also in a state of panic. One judge’s private staff member has reportedly tested positive for coronavirus, so the members of the colony are now being doubly cautious.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/gulbai-tekra-babu-bastion-in-panic/articleshow/75227351.cms||Kapil Dave
April 19, 2020||Goa||Cashew yield may get better rates||Chief minister Pramod Sawant on Friday said that he will hold a meeting of agriculture cooperatives over increasing the support price for cashew yield. Sawant said the agriculture minister Chandrakant Kavalekar had moved a proposal to increase the support price for cashew farmers. Kavlekar had earlier said that he had called on the CM seeking 25% hike in support price.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/cashew-yield-may-get-better-rates/articleshow/75227642.cms||---
April 19, 2020||Aurangabad||Aurangabad district health officer nabbed with Rs 6.70L cash, foreign liquor||Aurangabad: The Jalna police on Saturday intercepted the vehicle of Aurangabad zilla parishad’s district health officer at Varudi check post and arrested him for carrying Rs 6.70 lakh cash and some bottles of foreign liquor. The 43-year old medico was intercepted by the Badnapur police soon after he entered Jalna district. The fact that the health officer was travelling in his car with a government-issued travel pass of emergency services has stunned the police authorities who now have decided to screen all essential services vehicles. Jalna superintendent of police S Chaitanya told TOI, “Aurangabad ZP DHO Amol Gite was intercepted by our team while he was entering Jalna in his car. On inspecting, our men found Rs 6.70 lakh cash and foreign liquor bottles in the car.” The officer, citing the inputs received from his team present on field, said that the medical officer failed to give satisfactory reply about the source of the cash, following which the cash, liquor as well as the car in which he was travelling, have been seized. Based on the complaint lodged by PSI Shivsingh Bahure, an offence under IPC section 188 for disobeying orders duly promulgated by government servant has been registered against the doctor. In addition to this, he has been slapped with the sections of The Maharashtra Prohibition Act as well as with relevant sections of National Disaster Management Act. Sources said that the Badnapur police first received a tip about some suspect trying to carry hawala money.Following the tip-off, the vigilance at the check post was increased manifold. “As there were instructions to not let any vehicle enter Jalna without screening it properly, we inspected the medical officer’s vehicle, only to find cash and liquor in it,” said an officer present at the spot.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/aurangabad-district-health-officer-nabbed-with-rs-6-70l-cash-foreign-liquor/articleshow/75226603.cms||Mohammed Akhef
April 19, 2020||Agra||Sixth death in Agra, 41 more Covid-19 positive cases in region||AGRA: Agra district reported its sixth Covid-19 death on Saturday. Also, Agra and its neighbouring district, Firozabad, reported a total 41 positive cases. Alarmingly, they included a clerk posted at a Covid control room of Firozabad collectorate and a local journalist. The deceased was identified as a 65-year-old Delhi-based man, who came to his relative's house in Agra’s Wazirpura area along with other Tablighi Jamaat members. The man was a patient of hypertensive heart disease and tested positive on April 5. On the same day, he was shifted to isolation facility of S N Medical College. According to Dr Mukesh Vats, the chief medical officer of Agra, the Covid-19 positive man died of a heart attack. Earlier on Friday night, Agra health department received a list of 24 new Covid-19 cases and on Saturday, three more were confirmed - taking the tally to 199. “All have been shifted to isolation facility and contact tracing has begun. Half of the patients found positive on Friday came into direct contact of Tablighi Jamaat attendees," the CMO said. Meanwhile, in neighbouring Firozabad district, a total of 14 were found Covid-19 positive on Friday and Saturday, and were linked to Jamaat. The latest Firozabad tally is 40. According to district administration, the positive cases include a nine-month-old baby, whose parents along with five other family members were tested positive. Dr S K Dixit, chief medical officer of Firozabad, said, “The eight members of the deceased man got infection after coming in contact with attendees of Jamaat. A 53-year-old local journalist who attended the cremation of a Nepal returnee, also tested positive.” But the biggest concern for the administration is the 58-year-old government clerk, posted at Covid control room of Firozabad collectorate. Speaking to TOI, Chandra Vijay Singh, district magistrate said, “It seems that the clerk’s father came in contact with attendees of Jamaat. We have shifted the clerk to isolation facility and have collected the samples of his family and colleagues as well as officers like deputy collector. Everyone who came in contact with the clerk will remain under quarantine until further notice.” A total of 59 people have been quarantined after the clerk was found Covid positive.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/agra/6th-death-in-agra-41-more-covid-19-ve-cases-in-region/articleshow/75226606.cms||Arvind Chauhan
April 19, 2020||Kolhapur||Vegetable auction begins at APMC after four days||Kolhapur: After a gap of four days, vegetable auctions finally started at the APMC from Saturday at around 4am amid heavy police security. The operations were halted by the district administration on March 14 after they noticed that a section of traders had failed to follow social distancing norm. A team of around 50 police personnel led by deputy superintendent of police Prerana Katte was deployed at the market yard premises to ensure that the auction process is conducted smoothly. The APMC has set up six sanitisation chambers at the entrance of the market yard. Every trader and participant is allowed to enter the premises through these chambers only. Around 1,500 tonne vegetables and 1,000 tonne fruits arrived in the city-based market on Saturday and auction of these products began at 6 am. The auction was concluded at around 2 pm under the strict surveillance of the police force. Vegetables from villages neighbouring the city, Sangli district and bordering Karnataka state arrive in Kolhapur for trade purposes. The district administration had noticed that despite strict instructions about social distancing being issued to contain the spread of Covid-19 pandemic, the traders involved in the auction were reluctant to follow them. Taking strict cognizance of this, the district administration had halted the auction process from Tuesday. However, the officials of APMC discussed the issue with police officials and district administration officials and it was decided to start auction from Saturday under police protection. Around 750 traders and equal number of farmers were issued passes and were allowed to enter the market committee premises for auctioning of vegetables and fruits. The auctioning of vegetables ended at 10 am after which the auctioning of fruits began and went up till 2 pm. Tanaji Sawant, police inspector in-charge of local crime branch of Kolhapur, said, “We ensured that the participants followed the rules of social distancing during auction. We had issued strict warnings to them that if anyone is found violating the rules, they will be immediately booked. Our aim is to prevent spread of virus by breaking its chain.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolhapur/vegetable-auction-begins-at-apmc-after-four-days/articleshow/75227335.cms||---
April 19, 2020||Ahmedabad||One more doctor, 2 paramedics at LG hospital test +ve||Ahmedabad: One of the city’s largest municipal hospitals, Sheth LG hospital, is becoming a hotspot for Covid-19 infections. On Saturday too, one resident doctor and two more paramedic staff tested positive for Covid-19. They had attended to an orthopaedic patient who turned Covid-19 positive. On Friday, an assistant professor, two resident doctors and a staff nurse had tested positive for the infection after they attended to a patient who had severe abdominal pain. The sudden spurt of cases has led the municipal corporation to draw up a new safety protocol for doctors who are working in general hospitals. "The overall municipal medical staff have been reduced across our major hospitals. We are providing PPE sets and N95 masks to doctors as well who are involve in catering to general patients as well," says a senior Ahmedabad Municipal Corporation (AMC) official . Municipal commissioner Vijay Nehra told TOI, "We are even making arrangements for PPE sets and protective masks for those working in our UHCs." A senior municipal official told TOI that that issue of providing protective equipment for medical doctors and professors at all major municipal hospitals, including Shardaben, VS Hospital, and NHL Medical College had been raised. “Each doctor should be provided with at least five N99 or N95 masks which could be autoclaved and kept,” says a professor at VS Hospital. The issue gained prominence after Civil Hospital superintendent Gunwant Rathod’s son, who works at LG Hospital tested positive for Covid-19 after the latter came in contact with a resident doctor who had attended to a patient with severe abdominal pain. Nehra said that the contact tracing of all those positive at LG Hospital has been completed and all of them have been asked to stay away from work and are quarantined. “We have noticed that one patient was tested positive for Covid-19 and the patient was admitted for orthopaedic treatment, while the other one had got admitted for stomach treatment but had started showing Covid-19 symptoms,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/one-more-doctor-2-paramedics-at-lg-hospital-test-ve/articleshow/75227350.cms||---
April 19, 2020||Surat||Two die, one gets discharged in city||Surat: Two more persons succumbed to coronavirus infection, taking the toll in the city to seven, officials said on Saturday. Tabassum Shaikh, 36, a resident of Limbayat, succumbed to the deadly virus on Friday night. She was admitted in the isolation ward of New Civil Hospital (NCH) on April 16, after she tested positive. Jalal Karim Ghiya, 65, a resident of Udhana, who too tested positive for virus, died at NCH on Saturday. He was suffering from co-morbid condition and admitted to NCH on April 15. Health officials said final rites of both the deceased were performed as per government protocol for coronavirus victims with the help of volunteers of Ekta Trust, a non-government organization. The city recorded 61 positive cases, highest single day spike on Saturday. Majority of the cases were detected during community sampling from Lambe Hanuman Road, Varachha, Maan Darwaja and Mithi Khadi in Limbayat. Sources said Maan Darwaja Tenement has become a Covid hotspot with about 55 cases reported during community sampling in the last two days. A positive patient, Satyabhama Vanare, 40, a resident of Pandesara, was discharged from NCH after she tested negative on Saturday. Till now, nine patients have been discharged from the hospital after full recovery. Meanwhile, a positive case was detected from Vanakpore village in Bharuch’s Jhagadia taluka on Saturday, taking total number of cases in the district to 22. Two positive patients-one from Ikhar village in Amod taluka and Devla village in Jambusar- were discharged from Jayaben Modi Hospital in Ankleshwar on Saturday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/two-die-one-gets-discharged-in-city/articleshow/75226598.cms||---
April 19, 2020||Ahmedabad||2,000 tests per million meets global benchmarks: Nehra||Ahmedabad: Ahmedabad municipal commissioner Vijay Nehra on Saturday said that the current Covid-19 testing rate in the city is 2,000 per million and this was in tune with the testing rate in big cities of the world. Replying to a question on social media, Nehra said that the corporation has so far carried out 12,411 tests of which 1,428 cases were passive tests and 10,983 were active tests which were reported by the field staff. Nehra said that barring three to four states, the tests carried out in Ahmedabad were equivalent to the total number of tests carried out in the country. He said, “Earlier, AMC could conduct only 25-30 tests a day. Today it is able to do nearly 2,000 tests daily, and the AMC is now matching world standards with regard to testing done by the best cities of the world.” The commissioner had on Friday announced that to reach out to more people, AMC will start pooled testing. He had called upon developers and industrialists to come forward and sponsor the tests which AMC will get done from private laboratories. Over 82,000 people crossed 13 check-points Since imposition of curfew in the Walled City, a total of 82,618 people have crossed 13 check-posts at exit and entry points. Of these, 80 person who were symptomatic and were referred to health and police teams. On Friday, 37,000 people went through the check-posts. The number was 23,818 on Thursday and 2,1800 on Wednesday. Of these 31 were found symptomatic on Friday, 12 on Thursday and 27 on Wednesday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/2000-tests-per-million-meets-global-benchmarks-nehra/articleshow/75227355.cms||---
April 19, 2020||Bhubaneswar||Coronavirus drives sex out of the bedroom||Bhubaneswar: ‘Hum tum ek kamre mein bandh ho, aur chabi kho jay,’ crooned Shailendra Singh in Bobby with a young Rishi Kapoor romancing the beautiful Dimple Kapadia. The song leaves little to the imagination. Growing up, this could have been a staple for many youngsters. But not now. Cooped up inside the room for days with the novel coronavirus-enforced lockdown is taking a toll on active sex life. The tension of dealing with the grim situation and the disturbing news from all around are putting a strain on conjugal relationship, feel experts. “People are under a lot of stress. The pandemic has hit the economy hard. There’s threat of job loss in every sector. This could have been dissuading people from engaging in sexual activities,” said psychologist Pratap Kumar Rath. He feels that unless a cure for the virus is found, the mood and the sexual appetite are not going to change anytime soon. The sale of condoms reflects the mood of the people. These days, demand for sanitisers, masks and HCQ tablets has taken precedence over condoms. On an average, 80,000 condoms worth Rs 6 lakh used to be sold in Bhubaneswar every month before Covid-19 struck. “Now, sales have declined by over 70 per cent,” said Ajay Agarwal, one of the leading distributors of condoms in Odisha. “We have stopped ordering new stock due to the sharp decline in demand,” said Dharmendra Narayan Senapati, who owns a medicine store in the state capital. Rashmita Senapati (name changed), a software professional, said their conjugal relationship is not the same anymore. “Sexual activity is not on our mind these days due to the stress and anxiety that the virus outbreak has brought on us,” she said. “Between work from home and managing the house in the absence of the maid and cook, sex is not exactly a priority these days,” she added. Psychiatrist Surjeet Sahoo attributed a decrease in sexual urge to increased screen time. “People these days are glued to their mobile phones, TVs or laptops looking up news on the virus and its cure. The news is increasing the stress level,” Sahoo said. “Besides, being cooped up at home for days can have a distressing effect on the mind. It can make people edgy, and that is not an ideal frame of mind for sex,” he added. Then there’s the privacy factor as well. “With the entire family at home, people may not be getting the privacy to indulge in sexual activities,” Sahoosaid. Lagnajit Sahu (name changed), a government officer, seconded it. “When children are around all the time, there is little scope of engaging in sexual activities,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhubaneswar/coronavirus-drives-sex-out-of-the-bedroom/articleshow/75225663.cms||---
April 19, 2020||Rajkot||Jangleshwar has five more cases, tally touches 35||Rajkot: Five more people tested positive in the Jangleshwar area on Saturday, taking the number of positive cases in Rajkot to 35. One community leader, who had come in contact with top officials of Rajkot Municipal Corporation (RMC) and city police during Covid prevention meetings, also tested positive. The 47-year-old man is a resident of Ankur Society. Some officials were in touch with him, but none have been quarantined yet. Dr Pankaj Rathod, municipal health officer said, “There is definition of contact like meeting without wearing mask, standing with the person at less then one metre distance and others. Officers takes all these precaution in accordance with the guidelines at meetings.” Four other people who tested positive include two women aged 47 years and 65 years and two men aged 68 years and 26 years. Police have imposed 24-hours curfew in this area since Friday midnight. RMC started mass sampling drive in this area after 25 people have tested positive so far. On Saturday, teams took more than 200 samples. In Bhavnagar too, five people tested positive on Saturday. Of them, two were in quarantine facility while two others were found symptomatic from the cluster containment zone. Two men aged 68 years and 22 years and two women aged 86 years and 55 years also tested also positive. In all 32 persons have tested positive in Bhavnagar district.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/jangleshwar-has-five-more-cases-tally-touches-35/articleshow/75226618.cms||---
April 19, 2020||Aurangabad||Migrants continue to remain stranded as those with connections bag inter-state travel passes||Aurangabad: Innumerable poor people, migrant workers, students and others not having enough monetary or political clout are lying stranded at different places during the current lockdown. At the same time, some people are found bagging inter-state travel passes and commuting in large groups. Migrant workers hailing from different states and currently lodged at camps in Marathwada have already crossed 20, 000 mark. With no one to raise voice for them, they continue to reside at camps. The harsh reality came to fore a couple of days back when a bus carrying 50 commuters from Varanasi in Uttar Pradesh entered the state to drop them off at their hometown in Nanded district. After travelling for over 1,000 km, the bus reached Hingoli district’s Kanhergaon check post where they were stopped. The authorities at Hingoli were left stunned after the commuters produced an inter-state travel pass issued by Varasani district collector. However, the authorities did not allow the bus carrying these many commuters to even pass from their district to reach Nanded. When contacted, Hingoli district collector Ruchesh Jaywanshi said, “As per the union ministry of home affairs directives, no inter-district or inter-state movement is allowed, except in extreme medical emergencies. Based on these directives, the bus was not allowed in the district.” Around the same time, PWD minister and Nanded guardian minister Ashok Chavan got a special travel pass issued for Shri Kedar Jagadguru Shri Shri 1008 Bhimashankarling Shivacharya and his three close aides to travel all the way to Uttarakhand-based Kedarnath temple on the occasion of Akshaytritaya. Senior authorities expressed serious concerns over people getting travel passes in violation of the government advisory as well as state government directives. After being denied entry, the bus took a U-turn and decided to opt for an alternate route for reaching Nanded via Washim district, but were again intercepted. Not taking any chance, the Washim district collector Rushikesh Modak quarantined all the passengers. Sources in Washim police said that the commuters have claimed that they got the travel pass on completion of their 14-day quarantine period in Varanasi. However, the details about the journey to Uttar Pradesh could not be learnt. “Unless we have a uniform policy for issuing of travel passes and screening of commuters, lockdown will not help us. Selective outrage as well as selective leniency, is the recipe to lose the war against this pandemic,” said a senior officer who did not wished to be named.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/migrants-continue-to-remain-stranded-as-those-with-connections-bag-inter-state-travel-passes/articleshow/75226609.cms||Mohammed Akhef
April 19, 2020||Goa||Coronavirus scare in Goa: Seven admitted in isolation ward||PANAJI: Reports of 98 blood samples came negative for Covid-19, while 42 test reports were awaited on Saturday evening. Seven suspects were admitted to GMC’s isolation ward on Saturday, the directorate of health services (DHS) bulletin stated. It states that while nobody is currently under home quarantine, seven travellers continue to be under 28-day quarantine as per guidelines of the Union ministry of health and family welfare. Five cured patients are under quarantine at a resort in North Goa. They will continue to be in quarantine till they complete a 14-day quarantine, an official said. One patient has been discharged. Presently, there is only one Covid-19 positive case in the state and is being treated at Margao. He has been responding well to the treatment and will be declared cured once he clears two tests, an official said. Forty-two test reports were awaited on Saturday evening. Seven suspects were admitted to GMC’s isolation ward on Saturday, the medical bulletin by directorate of health services (DHS) stated||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/seven-admitted-in-isolation-ward/articleshow/75227643.cms||---
April 19, 2020||Hubballi||One more tests positive in Hubballi||DHARWAD: Dharwad district reported its seventh Covid-19 case when a 63-year-old man from Old Hubballi tested positive on Saturday. Deputy commissioner Deepa Cholan said the man (P-363) was a secondary contact of P-236. He is being treated at KIMS Hospital in Hubballi. On Friday night, he was shifted to the hospital’s isolation ward.  While the P-363 said he had no direct contact with P-236, both are said to have met at Bada Qabrastan in Gavi Oni of Old Hubballi during a funeral on March 24. P-363 works as a guard at the graveyard. He is a bachelor and has no immediate family members.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hubballi/one-more-tests-positive-in-hubballi/articleshow/75225637.cms||---
April 19, 2020||Ahmedabad||Ramdevnagar girl discharged after 32 days||Ahmedabad: Six positive reports, one inconclusive and three negative reports later, she is finally out of the clutches of the Covid-19. After remaining in hospital for 32 days, the 21-year-old, who lives in a bungalow in Ramdevnagar, was discharged late on Friday from the SVP hospital. She was admitted on March 17. Officials at SVP said that the girl was tested negative on April 16 and again the test was repeated on Friday, the test results which were received at 10pm again showed that she was negative. As per the protocol, if any person is tested negative twice, the person can be discharged. Admitted with Covid-19 symptoms after her return from the US on March 14 she was hospitalized on March 17. The case of the girl along with her driver has been referred to the Union health ministry and National Institute of Virology, Pune. The driver of the girls is still under treatment. His last report has tested positive.  “After testing positive on March 17, she tested positive again on March 23. On March 27, her test came negative but again tested positive on March 29. On April 3 and 7, her tests came back positive again. On April 12, her test was inconclusive. Repeat test on April 13 again was positive. On April 16, her test was negative,” said the officer.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/ramdevnagar-girl-discharged-after-32-days/articleshow/75227354.cms||---
April 19, 2020||Vadodara||Vadodara police go to Karamsad to deliver medicine||Vadodara: Vadodara cops aren’t only heeding to the SOS messages within the city but are also attending to the needy as far as in Karamsad in Anand during the lockdown. Nandikesh Vyas, a resident of Anand, was in dire need of a medicine for his 19-year-old daughter Devanshi, a thalaessemia patient. Admitted to a trust-run hospital in Karamsad due to accumulation of iron in the body, the medicine was very crucial for Vyas. However, it was not available anywhere in Anand. On Friday, through a local group of thalassaemia patients in Anand, Vyas learnt that the medicine is available in Vadodara. “I contacted IPS officer Subhash Trivedi, who is our community member and my childhood friend. When I told him about my condition, he immediately contacted senior police officials in Vadodara,” said Vyas, who makes his living by selling incense sticks. Trivedi, deputy inspector general of border range, called up joint police commissioner of Vadodara police, K G Bhati, and informed him about the availability of the particular medicine. Bhati asked cops from Gotri police station to procure the medicine immediately and deliver it at Anand. “I will always be indebted to the police for their help and the immediate service. I got the medicine within five hours,” Vyas added. “I got to know that the man’s daughter is in a critical condition and so we sent the medicine through our staffer immediately. We will keep going even where our jurisdiction is not there for all humanitarian work,” Bhati added. However, fate had other plans and on Saturday morning, Vyas lost his daughter Devanshi, who had been on the ventilator for the last two days. “We got the medicine a day before, but the nature had its own will,” a teary-eyed Vyas told TOI.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/vadodara-police-go-to-karamsad-to-deliver-medicine/articleshow/75226647.cms||---
April 19, 2020||Surat||SMC staffers from Navsari harassed||Surat: Navsari has remained free of COVID-19 despite its proximity to Surat. However, rapid rise in positive cases through local transmission in Surat has started to give sleepless nights to authorities in Navsari. Their fear has begun to result in mistreatment of their own citizens for fear from spread of infection in Navsari. Parimal Naik, a senior health officer employed with Surat Municipal Corporation (SMC), was told by policemen at Maroli checkpost to stay at home because there were chances of his bringing coronavirus from Surat to Navsari. Naik, a resident of Khakhwada village in Navsari’s Gandevi taluka, travels to Surat in his car on daily basis. Like him, hundreds of people employed with SMC and state government departments in Surat from Navsari are facing harassment at the hands of police and others, sources said. Navsari administration’s fear has become pronounced after it urged SMC authorities to provide accommodation to their employees shuttling between Navsari and Surat daily. In a letter to SMC authorities on April 16, Navsari district collector Ardra Agarwal stated that many people from Navsari town and nearby talukas work in sanitization and health departments of SMC and they travel for work to Surat on daily basis. These employees should be given accommodation at their headquarters to reduce threat of local transmission of contagious disease in Navsari. Agarwal has said, “State government’s revised guidelines issued on April 15 bans inter-state and inter-district movement of people, except in special cases. Representations have been received from elected representatives of the region to stop movement of people going for work to Surat.”Meanwhile, Surat Municipal Employees’ Staff Union (SMESU) has also demanded accommodation and other facilities for SMC employees coming from other districts. SMESU president Iqbal Shaikh said, “SMC employees in Navsari are facing harassment from police at Maroli and Tata High School checkposts. Our employees are stopped at the checkpoints and advised to stay at home. Thus, we have urged municipal commissioner to provide accommodation to about 2,500 employees of the civic body who are frontline staff of health and sanitization departments.” Municipal commissioner Banchanidhi Pani told TOI, “I don’t want to comment on the issue. Navsari district collector should write to state government and not to us on this.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/smc-staffers-from-navsari-harassed/articleshow/75226645.cms||Vijaysinh Parmar
April 19, 2020||Goa||Forest fires during lockdown keep officials on their toes in Goa||PANAJI: For three days in a row, fire appeared to recur in patches of a cashew plantation in Shirvoi in Quepem, leading to the forest department to pursue a complaint against unknown suspects. Unable to bring the fire under control, even personnel from the forest department’s North Goa division had to be roped in. During the lockdown, instances of such fires in forested patches appear to have increased. It has been a cause for worry for forest officials, some of whom suspects that the fires could be tactics by wood smugglers to divert the already stretched forest department personnel. “The major problem the department is facing due to the lockdown is forest fires being mischievously lit. It being summer season, the vegetation has dried up and the fire spreads fast. The guards are also posted at fixed times. The intention is to divert the forest staff to extinguish the fire, so that they can smuggle the costly wood. The wood from a teak tree can be sold for Rs 2.5 to 3 lakh illegally,” one official said. Such cases have occurred in forests of Quepem, Sanguem, Dharbandora, Cotigao and Sattari in recent weeks. In Cotigao, one accused was caught red-handed while lighting the fire. Fire watchers and trackers of the forest department continue to be on duty during the lockdown, but the manpower does not seem to be enough. Thankfully for the department, recently an app, based on information got via satellite, was made operational under the Forest Survey of India in Dehradun. “All range forest officials get a SMS alert if there is a fire in our area. It helps when the fire is inside a dense forest and is not visible. The app helps us know the GPS location, which side the fire is heading, the extent of the fire and its current status. Accordingly, we deploy staff and make a fire line and the fire is put out when it reaches this line,” the forest official said. Deputy conservator of forest Anil Shetgaonkar, under whose jurisdiction the Shirvoi fire was brought under control, said that the newly acquired ‘blowers’ were used to extinguish the fire. The blowers come in handy inside dense forests, where it is difficult to find even drinking water. Officials said that fortunately Goa has only witnessed ground fires and not canopy fires, which are much more difficult to extinguish.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/forest-fires-during-lockdown-keep-officials-on-their-toes/articleshow/75227647.cms||Gauree Malkarnekar
April 19, 2020||Aurangabad||Psychiatrists getting more patients amid lockdown||Aurangabad: Psychiatrists have started experiencing an unprecedented surge in the flow of people facing depression, stress, anxiety and other psychological disorders amid the ongoing lockdown. Most of the psychiatrists unanimously opined that those with no history of mental illness have started experiencing facing phobic anxiety, depression and even fear of contracting illness. Psychiatrist Vinay Chapalgaonkar said, “We have observed that the patients who were responding positively to our treatment have developed the fear of not getting medicines amid the lockdown or getting infected with Covid-19. Some even fear that the world is going to end.” Psychiatrists informed that several businessmen, traders and even industrialists were approaching them fearing about their liabilities and what the future holds in store for them. Apart from prescribing medication aimed at stable mental health, some psychiatrists are also advising people to limit their exposure to social media and electronic media. Psychiatrist Meraj Quadri said, “People should reduce their dependency on constant sources of negative news and rumours. Any person exposed to too much to negativity is bound to experience restlessness, palpitation and insomnia.” He further advised citizens to turn to their close friends and family members for comfort. “Sharing one’s worries with closed ones is one of the best ways of de-stressing oneself,” said Quadri. The restrictions imposed on the sale and supply of liquor, cigarette and other tobacco products has made this period a difficult time for addicts. This, in turn, has increased the number of addicts facing withdrawal symptoms. President of Indian Psychiatric Association, Aurangabad, Anand Kale said, “People with a history are showing more symptoms. There is also a surge in the number of patients suffering from anxiety. Over the next few days, people with withdrawal symptoms will only increase, due to lack of access to the substances they are addicted to.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/psychiatrists-getting-more-patients-amid-lockdown/articleshow/75226625.cms||Mohammed Akhef
April 19, 2020||Vijayawada||Taraweeh at home: This Ramzan, no congregational prayer in AP’s mosques||With the country in lockdown due to Covid-19, the aura of festivity associated with Ramzan, the Muslim month of fasting, will be missing this time in AP. Ramzan will begin in India on April 25 subject to sighting of the crescent, and Muslim religious scholars in Vijayawada, Guntur, Visakhapatnam, Anantapur, Kurnool, Rajahmundry, Chittoor, and Kadapa have appealed to the principal minority community to stay off congregational prayers in mosques. Ramzan is the period when Muslims spend a major portion of their time in mosques, offering individual and congregational prayers. It is also the time when special congregational night prayers called Taraweeh are offered. Muslim religious leaders have urged the community to forgo Taraweeh prayers in view of the lockdown till May 3. Incidentally, Saudi Arabia has suspended all congregational prayers including Taraweeh at the grand mosques in Mecca and Medina, two of Islam’s three holiest shrines, during Ramzan this year. Mohammad Dawud, AP secretary (finance) of Jamaat-e-Islami Hindi, told TOI that the Jamaat has appealed to Muslims stay at home and offer all prayers at home. “Do not visit mosques for daily or Taraweeh prayers. Offer prayers at home with family members maintaining social distance,” he said. Moulana Syed Ghulam Samdani Ali Quadri, president of Seerat-un-Nabi Academy, said the question of offering Taraweeh prayers in congregation in mosques would not arise. “When Muslims have forgone Friday congregational prayers and five obligatory prayers in mosques, they will also stay away from Taraweeh. Unlike Friday and five daily prayers, which are obligatory (Farz), Taraweeh prayers are Sunnah (tradition of Prophet),” he said. Moulana Ali Quadri added that a formal fatwa has been issued by Jamia Nizamia, a leading Islamic deemed university, with a list of do’s and don’ts to be followed during Ramzan to prevent the spread of the novel coronavirus. Moulana Mohammad Altaf, of Ahle-Sunnat Wal Jamaat, said during epidemics it is permissible to offer obligatory prayers at home. One need not visit mosques for the daily prayers even during Ramzan in view of Covid-19 threat and lockdown norms to avoid congregations. Moulana Khalid Rashid Firangi Mahali, chairperson of Islamic Centre of India, has also issued a “no congregational prayers” advisory for Ramzan. “While fasting is compulsory for healthy Muslims, Sahar (pre-dawn meal) and Iftar (post-fast meal) and prayers can be had at home. It is a tradition to break the fast together and in view of social distancing and lockdown, congregations should be avoided,” he said. Islamic scholar Moulana Abdul Kareem said though congregational prayers should be avoided, Muslims should continue with their charity and offer food to the needy during the holy month. Zakat should be paid in advance in view of the suffering of daily wagers and the poor due to the lockdown, he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/taraweeh-at-home-this-ramzan-no-congregational-prayer-in-aps-mosques/articleshow/75225686.cms||Syed Akbar
April 19, 2020||Bhubaneswar||Kendrapada kiln worker carries disabled child on 200km trek home||Kendrapada: A brick kiln worker of Pattamundai in Kendrapada district on Saturday began a 200-km walk to his home in Keonjhar district, carrying his eight-year-old disabled child on his shoulders, after the owner of the factory refused to pay him any money or provide him with shelter to tide over the current crisis. Chakradhar Munda, 40, a tribal native of Ghasipura village in Keonjhar, and his wife are both employees of the brick kiln in Pattamundai. For three weeks, the couple has been out of work, and were also evicted from the tiny makeshift hut they stayed in near the kiln. On Friday, matters came to a head when the owner of the kiln refused to provide them with any food or money, prompting the family to begin the arduous walk to Keonjhar, about 200km away. The family, which was stopped by police in Kendrapada town for a few minutes on Saturday but was allowed to move on after it detailed its plight, hopes to cover the distance in three or four days. “How could we have stayed back after the owner told us to go to our village? I caught hold of my disabled son and started walking as he is unable to walk. We are dying of hunger. Some locals provided us with food and water at Tinumuhani Chhack in Kendrapada town,” Munda said. “We are not afraid of the coronavirus. Hunger is the real threat,” he added. Munda said they had Rs 1,200 with them for food and other expenses along the way. “The problem is almost all hotels, dhabas and eateries along the road are shut,” he added. The lockdown, and its subsequent extension, has cut adrift hundreds of migrant workers like the Mundas from everything that moored them to their place of work. While local governments have promised to reach out to such persons with food and aid, and have also asked factory owners to pitch in, brick kilns across Kendrapada have turned out their workers without money or food, said trade union leader Jagajiban Das. “As large numbers of migrant workers move to their homes on foot, many will die of hunger and the journey than of Covid-19,” Das, president of the district unit of Citu, said. Niranjan Sethi, additional district magistrate of Kendrapada, reiterated that the district administration had asked all brick kiln owners to provide food and shelter to their workers. “We will take legal action against those who violate the order. We recently provided 56,364 construction workers in the district with Rs 1,500 each,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhubaneswar/kendrapada-kiln-worker-carries-disabled-child-on-200km-trek-home/articleshow/75225704.cms||---
April 19, 2020||Goa||Horti corp takes ‘coconut on wheels’ to overcome shortage in South Goa||Panaji: To overcome the coconut shortage in parts of South Goa and to maintain the supply chain, the Goa State Horticultural Corporation Ltd (GSHCL) and the directorate of agriculture have launched the ‘coconut on wheels’ service in Canacona. “About 10,000 coconuts procured from a farmer in Canacona were supplied to areas of Pali, Cotombi and Kudne among others, where there is scarcity of the nuts. The prices in these areas were skyrocketing, touching up to Rs 40 per piece. The procured coconuts were sold on retail basis at a maximum rate of Rs 22 piece,” the corporation stated. Goa has around 2,500ha under coconut plantations and annually sees a harvest of over a 100 million nuts. The lockdown has hit the industry by affecting the supply chain. GSHCL bought the nuts from Pandhari Prabhudessai from Canacona, who, on finding that traders were not ready to buy the coconuts approached the corporation for help. “Most traders were reluctant to purchase and market the nuts due to the lockdown. The farmer then contacted GSHCL for marketing of the produce,” the GSHCL said. Prabhudessai overcame the challenge of organising harvesters by using a travel permit issued by the agriculture department.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/horti-corp-takes-coconut-on-wheels-to-overcome-shortage-in-south-goa/articleshow/75227653.cms||Nida Sayed
April 19, 2020||Vijayawada||Andhra Pradesh minister distributes essentials to priests||VIJAYAWADA: Endowments minister Vellampalli Srinivas Rao assured the public that the state government would support those in need during the lockdown. The minister on Saturday distributed essential commodities to poor priests at Durga Ghat, adjacent to Prakasam barrage in the city. Around 200 priests dependent on ‘pinda pradhanam’ and other rituals have been struggling to earn their livelihood since the lockdown was imposed. With most rituals now being performed at home, Brahmin associations have requested the government and voluntary organisations to extend support. Srinivas distributed kits containing groceries and essential commodities for one month. “YS Vijayamma and our party will work with a motive of helping others. We have already announced a special package for the priests who are working in identified temples. We will distribute the essential commodities and ration to all poor brahmins across the state who are suffering from lockdown,” he said. “I’m committed to helping the public of my constituency. Special kits were distributed to ward volunteers, VMC workers and sanitation staff who are playing a key role during the crisis,” Srinivas said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/minister-distributes-essentials-to-priests/articleshow/75225702.cms||Venu Lanka
April 19, 2020||Dehradun||Testing, sample collection gather pace; pool testing, if needed: Uttarakhand health department||DEHRADUN: Alleging that both sample collection and testing have gathered pace in the state, health officials released the reports of 274 Covid-19 samples on Saturday, the highest ever in a single day since the outbreak of the novel coronavirus. According to health officials, 330 samples were collected on Saturday, again a first ever in a single day. Keeping in mind the rising number of cases, the health department is now mulling pool testing to ramp up detection of cases. Talking to TOI, additional secretary (health) Yugal Kishore Pant said that both collection of samples and testing have increased in the state. “We have collected around 150-300 samples daily in the last week and received reports of around 100-150 every day. There was some backlog mid-week but with 274 new reports on Saturday, we have cleared most of it. With 76 pending reports and 330 new samples collected, we are awaiting the results of 406 persons,” he added. He further said that the guidelines for pool testing have been shared with the laboratories in the state. Meanwhile, a government doctor at a Covid-19 facility said that the testing needs to keep pace with the sample collection.“The rate of sample collection has increased drastically in the last 10 days but reporting has not kept pace. It will be difficult to assess the situation if the reports remain pending for long,” he added. The health department on Saturday notified Dehradun as red zone, Nainital and US Nagar as orange zones, Haridwar, Pauri and Almora as blue zones and Uttarkashi, Tehri, Rudraprayag, Chamoli, Pithoragarh and Bageshwar as green zones.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/testing-sample-collection-gather-pace-pool-testing-if-needed-health-dept/articleshow/75226649.cms||Ishita Mishra
April 19, 2020||Goa||Goa government team to assist stranded workers at Kadamba Plateau||PANAJI: A day after TOI reported about the plight of at least 400 construction labourers at Kadamba Plateau, the North Goa collectorate swung into action and visited the site. Deputy collector Vivek HP conducted an inquiry, spoke to the labourers and even summoned the labour contractors and sub-contractors there The collectorate also tasked a team of officials, including police personnel, to monitor the situation. “Based on the article, I visited the construction site and conducted inquiry at the spot. Some labourers told me they wish to go back (to their states),” Vivek said. During the interaction, some workers also told him that the rations provided by their respective contractors were insufficient for two full meals a day. “One contractor told me that he pays the workers Rs 1,000 for 10 days while another claimed that he does not pay the workers as they would use the money to purchase liquor,” the deputy collector said. He urged the labourers to not panic and to adhere to safety norms. “Contact number of the police inspector and the mamlatdar have been shared. We’ll also put a team in place to monitor the situation regularly and to take feedback from the workers,” Vivek said. On Saturday, TOI carried a report pointing out how nearly 400 construction workers were stranded without work and pay. They hail from Rajasthan, UP, Bihar, Odisha, Madhya Pradesh, Jharkhand and Chhattisgarh, with many women and toddlers also living in the abysmal conditions. “All the labourers said they would cooperate. They even said they were happy and satisfied with the fact that we made inquires,” the deputy collector said. A few people also reached out to provide groceries and supplies to the stranded workers.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/govt-team-to-assist-stranded-workers-at-kadamba-plateau/articleshow/75227650.cms||---
April 19, 2020||Pune||No relaxation of lockdown in city for next 8 days: Ajit||Pune: Deputy chief minister Ajit Pawar on Saturday directed more stringent implementation of the lockdown measures in Pune city and Pimpri Chinchwad for the next eight days beginning Monday.In a meeting held in the presence of all the local authorities and police officers from Pune and Pimpri Chinchwad, the Pune guardian minister said the stern steps were needed in the wake of the increase in Covid-19 cases in the limits of both the municipal corporations.“The shutdown will be stricter and efforts would be made to reduce the number of cases. Citizens will have to extend support to the measures initiated in this direction. Necessary directives would also be issued,” he said in the meeting.The deputy CM expressed concern over the rising number of deaths in Pune city because of Covid. He assured that the state government would extend complete support to any requirements put forth by the authorities.Pune municipal commissioner Shekhar Gaikwad said, “Of the 15 civic wards in Pune, as many as 13 are in the red zone and the remaining two in the orange zone. It was, therefore, unanimously decided to continue with the lockdown measures across the city for the next eight days. The civic administration will conduct extensive drive in the sealed areas in the next eight-day period to identify and screen symptomatic patients of Covid-19.”Pune divisional commissioner Deepak Mhaisekar said following the recent order of the state government on some relaxation in rural and non-hotspot areas, industries in rural Pune would be allowed to function but movement of people from the city, especially from the containment zones, would not be allowed.He said there were 37 Covid-19 hotspots in the city. The Pune collector would issue the necessary orders for strict implementation of the lockdown in Pune city and Pimpri Chinchwad, as directed by the deputy chief minister.Pune collector Naval Kishore Ram said the status quo of the present lockdown would continue for the next eight days. He clarified that the Pimpri Chinchwad Municipal Corporation authorities would have to enforce lockdown in Hinjewadi. The situation of Chakan would be reviewed, he added.Pimpri Chinchwad municipal commissioner Shravan Hardikar said, “I shall have to take this decision jointly with the Pune Municipal Corporation and the Pune Metropolitan Region Development Authority. It will depend on how the cases reduce and we have to give priority to the reduction of cases.”Deputy chief minister Ajit Pawar called for speedy completion of the 11-storeyed building at Sassoon hospital in the meeting. He assured that 25% of its expenses would be borne by the District Planning Committee Fund.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/no-relaxation-of-lockdown-in-city-for-next-8-days-ajit/articleshow/75227654.cms||---
April 19, 2020||Ahmedabad||Positive case found in I-T Colony||Ahmedabad: One of the addresses of Covid-positive patients issued by the AMC showed Income Tax Colony in Navrangpura area. Sources in income tax department said that there’s no officer of the department who tested positive. “It’s most likely an officer of a central agency living in the colony. However, more verification is needed. The news came as a jolt as except the person being shifted from the premises, nothing much has been done in terms of disinfection of the premises. We will approach civic authorities for the same,” said a local resident, adding that if needed, tests of some of the residents who were in touch with the person should be conducted. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/positive-case-found-in-i-t-colony/articleshow/75227349.cms||---
April 19, 2020||Lucknow||Don’t cut salary for lockdown days: Yogi Adityanath||LUCKNOW: Chief minister Yogi Adityanath has said that outsourced labourers working in schools, hospitals and other institutes should be paid salaries even if they have not been able to report to work in lockdown. In an appeal to private units and business establishments, the CM on Saturday said they should show “exemplary compassion” to their employees in this time and ensure they are paid salary for days when they were unable to come for work, . Additional chief secretary (home) Awanish Awasthi said that while reviewing the distribution of financial assistance of Rs 1,000 to daily wagers, labourers etc, the CM said that a drive should be carried out to identify people left out of the scheme and to pay them financial assistance of Rs 1,000 each. “We started the distribution of financial assistance soon after the lockdown started. So far, the government has already given Rs 236.98 crore to 23.7 lakh persons through direct bank transfer,” Awasthi said. Other than the financial assistance, the government had also started clearing MNREGA dues of workers and distributing pensions. On March 30, the government transferred Rs 611 crore in the accounts of 27.15 lakh. It also transferred two months’ pension totalling Rs 871.48 crore, paid in advance, into the accounts of 86.71 lakh beneficiaries of old age, destitute women, Divyangjan and lepers’ pension schemes on April 3. As few districts reported that Covid-19 patients there had tested negative, making the district coronavirus-free, the CM said all precautions should remain in place in these districts. “The lockdown in these districts should still continue and no relaxation should be given at this point,” Awasthi said. The CM also said that nodal officers appointed to coordinate between the government and people from other states in UP and people from UP in other states, should remain in touch with foreign students and keep their embassies informed about their wellbeing. As wheat purchase has started, the CM said mandis and purchase centres located in hotspots should be shifted out immediately in consultation with DMs, SPs, and mandi officials.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/dont-cut-salary-for-lockdown-days-cm/articleshow/75227663.cms||Neha Lalchandani
April 19, 2020||Vijayawada||Vijayawada: IGM Stadium market closed, meat sale banned as Covid-19 cases climb||VIJAYAWADA: With 59 Covid-19 positive cases till Saturday and several areas in the city marked as red zones, Vijayawada continued to remain on high alert. The Krishna district administration and Vijayawada Municipal Corporation have stepped up implementation of lockdown measures and the civic body is focusing on controlling crowds at vegetable markets and has imposed a ban on meat sale in the city this Sunday. The spike in the number of cases in the city over the past week has placed the administration on alert. Cases from Madhuranagar, Gunadala Gangireddu Dibba, Machavaram and other areas are posing a challenge to authorities as the source of infection is unknown. “We should be very cautious about the coronavirus. Despite our efforts, number of cases in the city increased all of a sudden. Around 10 cases were registered at one area in the city and we are still striving hard to trace the source of infection,” said district collector A Mohammed Imtiaz. As part of containment measures, VMC authorities decided to close the makeshift vegetable market at the Indira Gandhi Municipal Stadium in view of the large crowds everyday. Instead, ten makeshift vegetable markets have been set up across the city. Officials who had marked out boxes on the floor at stalls to encourage social distancing said, “despite our directions people are crowding the markets. We have closed the market at IGM Stadium. We have decentralised the markets and established different markets at Siddhartha Mahila Kalasala, PB Siddhartha College, Bishop Azariah School, SRR College and other prime locations in the city,” said VMC commissioner Prasanna Venkatesh. Officials added, “We have noticed huge crowds at Bishop Azariah Schoo and residents are requested to make use of vegetable markets arranged at nearby colonies.” Meanwhile, Krishna district collector A Mohammed Imtiaz on Saturday issued orders imposing a ban on the sale of chicken, mutton, fish and other non-vegetarian foods in the city on Sunday. Meat markets in the city will remain closed and illegal stocks will be destroyed if caught by officials, he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/igm-stadium-market-closed-meat-sale-banned-as-covid-cases-climb/articleshow/75225728.cms||Venu Lanka
April 19, 2020||Goa||After mobile stalls, bikes with ice boxes to sell fish in Goa||PANAJI: Motorcycles equipped with ice boxes have been roped in by the fisheries department to sell fish directly to the people in various villages as the open sale of fish has been prohibited, and vendors are only permitted to carry out door-to-door sale of fish. This is being done under the centrally sponsored scheme on Blue Revolution integrated development and management of fisheries, formulated for 2016-17. Under the scheme named ‘Motorcycle with Ice Box’, a total of 39 units in the state — 28 in North Goa and 11 in South Goa — were provided with financial assistance. All 39 beneficiaries have been roped in to sell fish by adhering to all the advisory and guidelines issued by the state government. Beneficiaries are entitled to financial assistance under the scheme. Prior to this, the department had also permitted its eight mobile fish vans to sell fish at Mapusa, Navelim, Quepem, Sanguem, Ponda and Vasco. The operators purchase fish from the individual jetties close to their jurisdiction or from traditional fishermen and move around the town selling the fish.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/after-mobile-stalls-bikes-with-ice-boxes-to-sell-fish/articleshow/75227657.cms||---
April 19, 2020||Dehradun||Attacking Covid warriors shameful: Triple talaq crusader||DEHRADUN: Exhorting all sections of society to join hands in the fight against novel coronavirus, triple talaq crusader Shayara Bano said that “misbehaving with and attacking policemen and doctors on corona duty is a shameful act and a disgrace to society.” Talking to TOI over phone from Kashipur, Bano said, “It is a disgrace to see that our corona warriors like policemen, doctors and paramedics are attacked. Such acts are unpardonable.”  Bano urged people to follow the health department’s guidelines. “Instances of people throwing stones and spitting on doctors and police on Covid duty are very unfortunate and condemnable,” she said. On the spread of infection among Tablighi Jamaat members, she said, “Jamaat members should come forward and seek medical facilities. Those living in the Covid-19 hotspots must also not hide their conditions at any cost.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/attacking-covid-warriors-shameful-triple-talaq-crusader/articleshow/75226669.cms||Yogesh Kumar
April 19, 2020||Aurangabad||Apex court dismisses appeals against HC order junking draft DP for Aurangabad city||Aurangabad: The Supreme Court (SC) has dismissed a bunch of civil appeals against the Aurangabad bench of the Bombay high court's ruling of August 5, 2016 which had set aside a controversial draft development plan for Aurangabad city. The then Aurangabad mayor and some corporators had gone ahead with these appeals in the SC in their individual capacity despite the then Aurangabad municipal commissioner agreeing with the high court ruling and conveying the same to the Apex court. The SC bench of Justice Mohan M Shantanagoudar and Justice R Subhash Reddy referred to a couple of letters by the Maharashtra government on October 15, 2018 and January 15, 2020, which called for a new combined development plan for the original and the extended limits of Aurangabad city. The SC bench observed, "In view of the further developments, as indicated above, and having regard to findings recorded in the impugned (under challenge) order that huge variations are made by the planning authority while preparing the draft development plan, we find no reason to interfere with the impugned judgment. Accordingly, these civil appeals are dismissed, with no order as to costs." The bench said, "In this case, it is to be noted that proceedings were initiated in the year 2013 for revising the draft development plan and for one reason or the other, the proceedings remained at the stage of preparation of draft development plan. In view of the directions of the high court, the said plan is yet to be prepared and is to be submitted to the government for sanction. In any event having regard to communication/letter dated 15.01.2020 a fresh combined development plan for original and extended limits is to be prepared for Aurangabad city." "Having heard learned counsels on both sides and on perusal of the impugned judgment and other material placed on record, we are of the view that it is not a fit case to interfere with the impugned order under Article 136 of the Constitution of India," the bench added. The high court bench at Aurangabad had quashed and set aside the draft development plan and the notification relating to the same, on the grounds that there were large scale deviation from the proposal and scheme within contemplation of the Maharashtra Regional Town Planning (MRTP) Act of 1966.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/apex-court-dismisses-appeals-against-hc-order-junking-draft-dp-for-aurangabad-city/articleshow/75226685.cms||Syed Rizwanullah
April 19, 2020||Madurai||Semolina production hit as demand for maida declines||Madurai: Like it or not, rava upma is one easy to make item and common in many households, almost every day. But in the last few days white rava (semolina) has become a rarity in grocery stores. Interestingly, this is not because of the exorbitant demand for the by-product from wheat but because of the drastic drop in demand and production of maida.“The demand for maida has gone down drastically due to the closure of hotels and bakeries. Since flour mills are not able to produce maida we are unable to get semolina in the market,” president of Tamil Nadu Foodgrains Merchants Association Limited, S P Jeyapragasam said.Stating that maida accounts for 70% of the output while grinding wheat, R K N Rajkumar, joint managing director of Jayakrishna Flour Mills private limited said that semolina is only 4 to 5% of the wheat that is ground. He added that rarely in some mills it is up to 10%. “Grind semolina further and it becomes maida,” Rajkumar, whose family has been into the business for 33 years, said. The remaining resultant by products are atta (6 to 10%) and bran (20 to 25%) that is used as cattle feed.“Hotels, roadside eateries and bakeries are the main consumers of maida, accounting a prime share of business. Since functioning of these businesses was disrupted due to the lockdown the demand was hit by 90%. With relaxation and permitting takeaway of food from hotels, we are at 20% production,” Rajkumar said.Due to this, availability of wheat bran for cattle has also been hit. However, there is no impact on packed whole wheat. Flour mills said that permitting full-fledged functioning of roadside eateries, hotels and bakeries alone will bring back the demand for maida.Roadside eateries in Madurai that are famous for parotta are among the prime consumers. They would be back to business only when the government lifts restrictions and permits full-fledged functioning – including dine-in. “Only then, houses will be able to get rava from the grocery stores at ease,” Jeyapragasam said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/semolina-production-hit-as-demand-for-maida-declines/articleshow/75227666.cms||M K Ananth
April 19, 2020||Mangaluru||Promoting food security key to fighting pandemics: Experts||Mangaluru: While most serious cases of Covid-19 occur in patients with underlying chronic cardiometabolic conditions, a majority of them are reversible and preventable by promoting food security. All over the world, scientists and governments have been educating people with diabetes and other cardiometabolic diseases to be extra-cautions. Diabetes patients commonly have underlying heart disease, liver disease and kidney disease and are believed to be chronic inflammatory state with dysregulated immune response with underlying immunosuppression. These patients often are prone to complications and increase traction on limited medical care capacity. Dr Sandeep Samethadka Nayak, internal medicine physician in California, told TOI: “India is the diabetic capital of the globe with an estimated 10-16% of the population being diabetic or pre-diabetic. The good thing is these diseases are preventable and reversible by promoting scientific low carbohydrate food, proper exercise and good sleep. With reduction of diabetes prevalence, population and government will be more prepared to face pandemic without much panic.” “Once the country is back to normal, the government must focus on food security. Policy makers usually try to compensate for food insecurity by subsidising carbohydrate-rich food, but that does not serve the purpose in the long term. We need a long-term strategy to tackle political, economic, and cultural barriers to overcome food insecurity. Currently, most schemes of the government like mid-day meals, food supply at fair-price shops and Indira Canteens focus on supplying grains as main food. These do not have much nutritional significance. They also increase the prevalence of diabetes and other cardiometabolic diseases. Instead, the government must heavily consider providing subsidised tree nuts, seeds, greens vegetables, fish/ meat and eggs,” said Dr Nayak who is spreading awareness that diabetes is reversible. A few years ago, World Health Organisation (WHO) recommended adults and children to reduce their daily intake of free sugars to less than 10% of their total energy intake. Former minister T B Jayachandra said the government must use this period as an opportunity to put an end to malnutrition and revive food habits. Malnutrition caused 69% of deaths of children below the age of five in India, according to a Unicef report released last year. “Due to the lockdown, most youngsters working in cities have returned to villages. The government is distributing ration through fair-price shops. Though there is sufficient stock of foodgrains now, the government must encourage young workforce to take up agriculture. This is the right time to revive our food habits and traditional crops. The suggestions of experts including planners, medical professionals and agriculturists must be considered to put an end to malnutrition in the country. The Prime Minister must address the country on change in food habits and give a vision for reviving agriculture,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mangaluru/promoting-food-security-key-to-fighting-pandemics-experts/articleshow/75220433.cms||Deepthi Sanjiv
April 19, 2020||Dehradun||Six foreigners rescued from cave in Rishikesh, quarantined||HARIDWAR: Six foreigners, including one from Nepal, were rescued by the Lakhsman Jhula police from a cave located on Neelkanth temple road on Saturday. They were living in the cave since March 24 as they did not have enough money to stay in a hotel.They stayed in a hotel at Muni Ki Reti before the lockdown. Though they did not show any Covid-like symptoms, they were quarantined for the next 14 days by the health department in a government facility set up at a local ashram. The group comprised two women hailing from Turkey and Ukraine, three men from Ukraine, United States and France and one person from Nepal. They all came to India in December. Lakshman Julha SHO Rakendra Singh Kathait said, “Six foreign tourists, including two women, have been rescued from a cave in Garudchatti region. Before the lockdown began, they were living in a hotel in the Muni Ki Reti region but they moved to the cave after they ran out of money. However, they had money to buy food and other supplies. The man from Nepal helping them buy essential items.” Due to lockdown, around 600 foreign tourists are stuck in the Rishikesh region.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/six-foreigners-rescued-from-cave-in-rishikesh-quarantined/articleshow/75226687.cms||MS Nawaz
April 19, 2020||Lucknow||UP govt seeks GST refund from Centre for revival||LUCKNOW: To provide relief to micro, small and medium enterprises (MSME) and industralists to tide over lockdown losses, the state government will approach the Centre to request for early release of GST refunds. During an e-interaction on Saturday with industry representatives organised by Confederation of Indian Industry (CII), UP chapter, MSME minister Siddharth Nath Singh said a revival plan is being hammered out to help industries bounce back once lockdown ends. Principal secretary, MSME, Navneet Sehgal said a revival and facilitation cell had been set up and date for payment of power bills would be extended. Also, UPSRTC will arrange buses to ferry workers to factories from April 20, said Singh, talking to TOI after his video-conference with traders and industrialists at the MSME’s new facilitation centre. Addressing traders, the minister said, a toll free number has also been launched to register business-related complaints and ensure swift resolution. He said MSME played a key role in ensuring there was no shortage of essentials and coordinated with the state government in providing PPEs and masks during the current lockdown. In reply to a question, Singh told traders the state government would allow more relaxations to help them reboot business, while assuring them GST returns were being fast-tracked. MD Chopra Retec Rubber Products Kiron Chopra said, the pandemic was likely to push the state economy back by two or three years. “However, with government intervention, UP can emerge as a frontrunner in attracting investments, which are being moved out of China,” he said. Other members said, their immediate concerns include approvals for units which can start operation, transportation of employees, vehicular movement and waiver or rationalisation of fixed electricity charges that have been deferred by UPPCL. “Suggestions sent to the Centre include guarantee-free credit and loan to pay salaries. The pandemic will trigger a paradigm change in nature of businesses, but the state government is committed to supporting industry and enhancing ease of doing business,” Singh said. Principal secretary Navneet Sehgal told businessmen that GM-rank officers at the facilitation centres would resolve their complaints. Ankit Gupta, chairman, CII state unit, was also present during the e- interaction.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/govt-seeks-gst-refund-from-centre-for-revival/articleshow/75227671.cms||---
April 19, 2020||Hubballi||P-363 distributed foodgrains, performed funerals||DHARWAD: Every time a person tests positive for Covid 19, it poses severe challenge to the administration who have to trace their travel history and contacts. P-363, the 63-year-old working as a watchman in a graveyard in Toravihakkal of Hubballi tested positive on Saturday. He had come in contact with P 236 of Mullan Oni and the two distributed food grains and other items to several families in Mullan Oni, Dhakappa Circle, Kamaripet and Anand Nagar in Hubballi on March 27. Deputy commissioner Deepa Cholan has asked all those who came in contact with the two during the distribution of food grains and those who attended funerals at Toravihakkal Qabrastan from March 20, to contact helpline 1077.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hubballi/p-363-distributed-foodgrains-performed-funerals/articleshow/75225744.cms||---
April 19, 2020||Bhubaneswar||IIT Bhubaneswar develops portable, low cost ventilator||BHUBANESWAR: IIT Bhubaneswar has developed a portable and low-cost ventilator for the use of Covid-19 patients. The institution began developing the product around three weeks ago after the shortage of ventilators in the country became evident through news reports and doctors’ testimonials. The portable ventilator developed by the IIT costs around Rs 8,000 apiece. The institute has created a prototype of the device and has tested it successfully. “We will apply for approval from the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) before starting mass production,” said IIT Bhubaneswar director R V Rajakumar. The ventilator has been developed by the school of mechanical sciences of the institute. It was conceived and manufactured (in-house) by associate professor, Manas Mohan Mahapatra, and team comprising JG Thakare, Arabinda Meher, Bivudatta Mohanty and Umesh Melkani. Mohapatra said the ventilator would be connected with oxygen supply and its pumping rate can be adjusted according to need. This pumping is done by using a programmable stepper motor drive. The speed and stroke length of the stepper motor can be both controlled manually and through a programme, he added. The teacher said a doctor would take a decision on the breathing frequency of the patient and the frequency could be set in the ventilator by paramedics. “The device operates smoothly without noise. It is safe, reliable and easy to use,” he added. Mihir Kumar Pandit, head of the school of mechanical sciences, said the ventilator could be run on battery, if required. It is portable because of its light weight. “The weight of the ventilator is around 3kg,” he said, adding that it was tested successfully in the presence of the institute’s director. Rajakumar said IIT had started different types of research to fight Covid-19. “Ventilators are needed for Covid-19 patients because they show breathing problems. If we get approval for this, we will start mass production at our start-up centre or transfer the technology to a company,” he added. While congratulating the researchers, Rajakumar said the institute would come up with more such products to fight Covid-19. “I do not know of any other IIT having come up with such low-cost ventilators,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhubaneswar/iitbbs-develops-portable-low-cost-ventilator/articleshow/75225745.cms||Hemanta Pradhan
April 19, 2020||Goa||206 KTC buses to ferry govt employees to work||Panaji: The Kadamba Transport Corporation Ltd (KTC) will operate 206 buses to ferry government employees from various parts of the state to their respective offices. These buses will pick up passengers from internal routes as well as bus stands. Each big 54-seater bus will carry only 21 passengers and a 31-seater shuttle bus will ferry 16 passengers, to maintain social distancing norms in view of the Covid-19 threat. The transport will be free of cost for government employees, provided they carry their government ID cards. “All the government employees who are seeking this facility offered by KTC must wear masks, or they will not be permitted to board the bus. The conductors will keep tabs on this,” said KTC general manager Sanjay Ghate. He further said that the passengers must adhere to social distancing guidelines within the bus and carry hand sanitisers with them. “This is for their own safety,” he said. “Sanitisers will also be kept at the bus stands for passengers to use before boarding and after alighting the KTC buses,” The buses will pick up passengers from routes in Valpoi, Sanquelim, Curtorim, Pernem, Panaji, Margao, Vasco, Ponda, Sanvordem, Sanguem, Poinguinim and Canacona. Of the 206 buses pressed into service, 40 will operate on the shuttle routes. Based on the response, KTC will decide if any diversion of buses is required or there’s need to increase the frequency of buses as per the demand. KTC will cover 14,000 to 15,000km per day,operating these 206 buses.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/206-ktc-buses-to-ferry-govt-employees-to-work/articleshow/75227669.cms||---
April 19, 2020||Goa||Over 1.5k fishermen taught safety norms||Panaji: The fisheries department has conducted awareness camps on safety measures for more than 1,500 fishermen and fishing boat crew, since April 11. Officials have been visiting the Malim, Cutbona, Vasco and Chapora jetties two to three times a day to carry out the drive. Awareness programmes are also held for traditional fishermen at Canacona, Mormugao, Bardez, Pernem, Tiswadi and Salcete. In addition, the coastal police are also conducting awareness drives across Tiswadi. Besides social distancing, wearing of gloves and mask, and using sanitisers, they are also told to bring to the notice of the health authorities if any crew member is unwell.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/over-1-5k-fishermen-taught-safety-norms/articleshow/75227665.cms||---
April 19, 2020||India||Coronavirus man-made in Wuhan lab: Nobel laureate||NEW DELHI: Creating a scientific firestorm across the world, French virologist and medicine Nobel laureate Luc Montagnier has claimed that SARS-CoV-2, the virus that led to the global pandemic, is “man-made” as it’s the result of an attempt to manufacture a vaccine against the AIDS virus in a Chinese laboratory. Interviewed on a French news channel, the co-discoverer of the AIDS virus who bagged the 2008 Nobel award in medicine along with other two other scientists alleged the “presence of elements of HIV and germ of malaria in the genome of coronavirus is highly suspect and the characteristics of the virus could not have arisen naturally”. Montagnier alleged that an “industrial” accident was said to have taken place in the Wuhan National Biosafety Laboratory, which specialises in these coronaviruses since early 2000s. His allegation has come at a time when the US has started a probe into such reports of virus “leak”. In fact, US President Donald Trump had a few days ago said, “More and more, we’re hearing the story” and that the US was “doing a very thorough investigation”. Secretary of State Mike Pompeo said, “We’re doing a full investigation of everything we can to learn how it is the case that this virus got away, got out into the world and now has created so much tragedy — so much death — here in the US and all around the world.” He said the US knew that the Wuhan lab “contained highly contagious materials”. Read AlsoLooking into reports that coronavirus 'escaped' from Wuhan lab: TrumpA group of more than half-a-dozen lawmakers sent a letter to House and Senate leadership, requesting them to ensure that no future coronavirus relief funds be appropriated to the Wuhan Institute of Virology.Montagnier, however, is a controversial figure as he had earlier published two controversial research studies — electromagnetic waves emitted by DNA (DNA teleportation) and on the benefits of papaya in AIDS or Parkinson cure — that attracted criticism from a section of the scientific community. More on Covid-19Coronavirus pandemic: Complete Coverage21-day lockdown: What will stay open and what won'tHow to quarantine yourself at homeTrust the newspaper for your daily verified newsAnother French virologist Étienne Simon-Lorière of the Institut Pasteur in Paris, however, rubbished Montagnier’s claims. “That (His claims) does not make sense. These are very small elements that we find in other viruses of the same family, other coronaviruses in nature,” Étienne told AFP. The theory that the Covid-19 originated from genetic manipulation has been circulating in social media for quite some time. However, China has refuted allegations that the coronavirus may have originated in a Wuhan laboratory. Chinese foreign ministry spokesman Zhao Lijian cited the World Health Organisation chief and other unidentified medical experts as saying that there was no evidence that transmission began from the laboratory and there was “no scientific basis” for such claims.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/coronavirus-man-made-in-wuhan-lab-nobel-laureate/articleshow/75227989.cms||Surendra Singh
April 19, 2020||Goa||Benaulim-Colva shore bears brunt as waste piles up||Colva: Beach cleaning appears to have taken a backseat along the Benaulim-Colva stretch as garbage continues to pile up with each passing day. Waste can be found strewn across the entire shore as well as at the foot of the sand dunes and shrubbery. While the sea has been purging waste like plastic and glass bottles, rubber, footwear, bags and haversacks, mats, nets, ropes, wood, etc, during high tide, shacks owners are dumping their material such as plastic sheets, cardboards and wood in the bins, well as on the beach in case the bins are overflowing. The government has contracted Karnataka Commercial and Industrial Corporation (KCIC) to undertake beach cleaning along this stretch. Bins which are overflowing with garbage are not being cleared by KCIC, even as fresh waste from the sea lines up the entire stretch from Cavelossim to Colva. Some days ago, the beach cleaning agency had collected garbage from the shore at Benaulim and dumped it in the shrubbery. On April 9, tourism director Menino D’Souza had stated that the dumped garbage was kept for drying. Ten days have passed since then, but the garbage is yet to be cleared. After being apprised of the latest situation, D’Souza said the beach cleaning agency has replied that locals dump garbage at night, and concluded that this is not daily beach waste. However, when brought to his notice that the garbage bins have not been cleared for days together, he failed to elicit a response. KCIC sources said the garbage dumped in the shrubbery needs to be segregated, but due to the lockdown there are constraints to transport their labourers, and hence they are working with a few workers who live in the vicinity of Colva.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/benaulim-colva-shore-bears-brunt-as-waste-piles-up/articleshow/75227683.cms||Nisser Dias
April 19, 2020||Jodhpur||Four more die in Jaipur; 122 new cases take Rajasthan tally to 1,351||JAIPUR: Four more persons died of Covid-19 in the state while 122 tested positive for the virus on Saturday, taking the total count of infections to 1,351. All the four deceased belonged to Jaipur. The death toll in the state climbed to 21, with 11 casualties from Jaipur alone. The health department has decided to send samples to an authorised private laboratory in Delhi to clear the backlog of pending cases. “Four thousand samples, currently with SMS Hospital, are being taken to a Delhi-based testing facility. The result should be available with us in the next 36 to 48 hours, as mandated,” said Rohit Kumar Singh, additional chief secretary, health. According to the health department, one of the deceased was 76 years old, a resident of Subhash Chowk. He died after seven days of treatment at SMS Hospital. He was admitted on April 10 and had tested positive for the virus on April 12. He died while undergoing treatment on Friday (April 17). The death was reported by the health department on Saturday. “He was suffering from chronic kidney disease and hypertension,” said Singh. All the four deceased had comorbidities: Health dept Another victim was 47-year-old resident of Shastri Nagar who was admitted to the SMS Hospital on April 13. He was tested positive on April 15. He died while undergoing treatment on Saturday. The health department claimed that the patient was suffering from diabetes. The health department officials said that all the four deceased had comorbidities. A 48-year-old woman, resident of Teli Pada in the Walled City area, was admitted to SMS Hospital on April 17 and died on the same day. She was tested positive for the virus on April 18. The health department report said that she was suffering from hypertension, hypothyrodism and bilateral pneumonia. Besides, a 53-year-old man, resident of Krishanpuri in Nahri Ka Naka area was admitted to SMS Hospital on April 15. He was tested positive for the virus on April 14. He died while undergoing treatment on April 18. He was suffering from chronic artery disease, hypertension and kidney disease. On Saturday, of the 122 persons found infected with the virus, 42 are from Bharatpur, 26 from Jodhpur, 25 from Jaipur, 17 from Nagaur, five from Kota and three from Ajmer. While Tonk reported two cases, Banswara and Jaisalmer reported one each. The health department officials said that all the 42 cases in Bharatpur have been reported from Bayana. “Those who have tested positive for Covid-19 have already been kept in the quarantine facility as they are contacts of the first positive case in Bharatpur,” the official said, adding that with 42 new cases the total number of patients has increased to 85 in Bharatpur. In the past three days, 65 cases have been reported from Bharatpur, all belong to same locality in Bayana. According to the health department report, 23 persons were found infected with the virus on April 16, while 42 tested positive for Covid-19 on Saturday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jodhpur/4-more-die-in-city122-new-cases-takestate-tally-to-1351/articleshow/75231677.cms||---
April 19, 2020||Jaipur||Four more die in Jaipur; 122 new cases take Rajasthan tally to 1,351||JAIPUR: Four more persons died of Covid-19 in the state while 122 tested positive for the virus on Saturday, taking the total count of infections to 1,351. All the four deceased belonged to Jaipur. The death toll in the state climbed to 21, with 11 casualties from Jaipur alone. The health department has decided to send samples to an authorised private laboratory in Delhi to clear the backlog of pending cases. “Four thousand samples, currently with SMS Hospital, are being taken to a Delhi-based testing facility. The result should be available with us in the next 36 to 48 hours, as mandated,” said Rohit Kumar Singh, additional chief secretary, health. According to the health department, one of the deceased was 76 years old, a resident of Subhash Chowk. He died after seven days of treatment at SMS Hospital. He was admitted on April 10 and had tested positive for the virus on April 12. He died while undergoing treatment on Friday (April 17). The death was reported by the health department on Saturday. “He was suffering from chronic kidney disease and hypertension,” said Singh. All the four deceased had comorbidities: Health dept Another victim was 47-year-old resident of Shastri Nagar who was admitted to the SMS Hospital on April 13. He was tested positive on April 15. He died while undergoing treatment on Saturday. The health department claimed that the patient was suffering from diabetes. The health department officials said that all the four deceased had comorbidities. A 48-year-old woman, resident of Teli Pada in the Walled City area, was admitted to SMS Hospital on April 17 and died on the same day. She was tested positive for the virus on April 18. The health department report said that she was suffering from hypertension, hypothyrodism and bilateral pneumonia. Besides, a 53-year-old man, resident of Krishanpuri in Nahri Ka Naka area was admitted to SMS Hospital on April 15. He was tested positive for the virus on April 14. He died while undergoing treatment on April 18. He was suffering from chronic artery disease, hypertension and kidney disease. On Saturday, of the 122 persons found infected with the virus, 42 are from Bharatpur, 26 from Jodhpur, 25 from Jaipur, 17 from Nagaur, five from Kota and three from Ajmer. While Tonk reported two cases, Banswara and Jaisalmer reported one each. The health department officials said that all the 42 cases in Bharatpur have been reported from Bayana. “Those who have tested positive for Covid-19 have already been kept in the quarantine facility as they are contacts of the first positive case in Bharatpur,” the official said, adding that with 42 new cases the total number of patients has increased to 85 in Bharatpur. In the past three days, 65 cases have been reported from Bharatpur, all belong to same locality in Bayana. According to the health department report, 23 persons were found infected with the virus on April 16, while 42 tested positive for Covid-19 on Saturday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/4-more-die-in-city122-new-cases-takestate-tally-to-1351/articleshow/75227684.cms||---
April 19, 2020||Madurai||Many elderly people suffer fall at home, land in hospitals with injuries||MADURAI: Amid lockdown when everyone is expected to be safe and sound within the confines of their homes, across the state, many among the elderly are still ending up in emergency rooms due to domestic falls. With extra precautions taken at hospitals for Covid-19, the elderly who do unfortunately suffer falls are also forced to have a tougher time for treatment at hospitals. Some of the major injuries sustained in such falls include fractures of hip, spine and wrists and head injuries. “Though the elderly more often than not stay at home, with less medical care now since they are unable to make routine hospital visits, they are prone to falls. Issues that stem from diabetes and hypertension are common. Many also miss out on going for walks outdoors. Vitamin D deficiency is linked to falls,” said Dr Sathish Devadoss, chief orthopaedic surgeon, Devadoss Multi-speciality hospital. “Some grandparents tend to be playful with their grandchildren and try to engage in strenuous activity. They should not get carried away. They are prone to falls by slipping or stepping on even toys by accident. In boredom, some even adventurously try to clean their shelves or windows by climbing on chairs and such. All this should be avoided,” said Dr David V Rajan, managing director, Ortho-One Orthopaedic Speciality Centre. He added that even exercising at home by the elderly should be done only for recommended amounts. Overexertion can lead to great harm. “I’m taking all precautions but you can never know. My children who live in Chennai cannot come to aid me or my husband quickly if something happens,” said 72-year-old Rajeshwari A who resides in Madurai. Though doctors say that overall the total number of cases of falls among the elderly does not seem high, it is still a common phenomenon. “Because of COVID-19 scare, cases of elderly suffering injuries from falls would be tough to manage for the patient amid lockdown in terms of mobility too. The patient would have to undergo diagnosis like x-ray or CT scan and also the process for COVID-19 screening before treatment, making it an arduous task,” said Dr Shanthi GS, HOD, department of Geriatric Medicine, Madras Medical College. However, Geriatricians say that there is little to fear if proper care and precautions are taken. “Following the proper diet and medication recommended for elderly can go a long way in keeping safe. Doing simple exercises, walking or yoga within homes can help the elderly stay refreshed and healthy. Further, simple measures like ensuring floors are not slippery or even just taking care to take each step with caution can definitely ensure no falls,” added Dr Shanthi.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/many-elderly-people-suffer-fall-at-home-land-in-hosps-with-injuries/articleshow/75227680.cms||Sukshma Ramakrishnan
April 19, 2020||Lucknow||Govt: Cane growers can take sugar from mills against dues||Lucknow: In a fresh lockdown relief measure aimed at alleviating the hardships of cane farmers, the government announced on Saturday that they can take one quintal sugar from mills in lieu of their pending dues for 2019-20 crushing season. Speaking to TOI, principal secretary, sugar, Sanjay R Bhoosreddy said farmers can take one quintal of sugar at ex factory price for three months against their dues. “Cane payments are pending and sugar mills are cash strapped while sugar price has risen to Rs 45 a kilo. They complained that despite being cane growers they are buying sugar from market at high rates,” said Bhoosreddy. So, the state government has decided to provide one quintal sugar to cane grower from the mill where he sold his produce at ex factory price. In this way, they would be saving at least Rs 13-15 per kg. The farmers can take one quintal sugar per month till June, he added. More than 50 lakh cane growers are likely to be benefitted by this by this decision.  “The sugar mills are likely to remain cash strapped because of decrease in demand for sugar. The demand from ice cream and cold drink manufacturing units has dropped due to lockdown. Ice cream and beverage firms alone account for a big chunk of sugar buyers,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/govt-cane-growers-can-take-sugar-from-mills-against-dues/articleshow/75227676.cms||---
April 19, 2020||Ahmedabad||Ahmedabad: ‘Sewage water tests can signal Covid-19’||AHMEDABAD: Can testing sewage water or wastewater for the presence of Covid-19 or novel coronavirus act as an early warning system to alert public about when and where infections may be prevalent or whether the virus is re-emerging in cities, towns or cluster of villages? Among a handful of independent global scientific groups, a Swedish research collaborative — KTH Royal Institute of Technology, Stockholm, Sweden, and Netherlands-based KWR Watercycle Research Institute which includes the Discipline of Earth Science at Indian Institute of Technology, Gandhinagar (IIT-Gn) — will analyze and test sewage that drains from our homes into municipal treatment facilities. Researchers claim this is one way they can track infectious bacteria or viruses that are excreted through human urine or faeces, such as SARS-CoV-2 or Covid-19. In Ahmedabad there are 11 sewage treatment plants serving different clusters of population. "We are trying to establish the relationship between the Covid-19 spread and the prevalence of SARS-CoV-2 in the sewage wastewater, as one can be an effective indicator for other and so on. Moreover, the Covid-19 symptoms take at 3-14 days to appear in a human being leading to substantial delay in diagnosis of infected patients/carriers, the sewage samples can help us to early detect the extent of carrier,” says Manish Kumar, faculty at Discipline Of Earth Science, IIT-Gn. While explaining the concept, a co-researcher, Prosun Bhattacharya, of KTH Royal Institute of Technology, Sweden, says, “Infection with Covid-19 is frequently accompanied by persistent excretion of the virus through stool, urine, human saliva, spit and cough. Covid-19 is usually transmitted via droplets or fomites, but the presence of the virus in human saliva should also be seen as a pathway of transmission through wastewater due to mouth washing practices. Recent reports have identified detection of SARS-CoV-2 in the wastewater at an early stage of a local outbreak and thus highlighted the importance of wastewater-based epidemiology.” Kumar says that the study will understand the transmission of SARS-CoV-2 from an infected person to sewage and from sewage to human again for the development of an early warning system for return of Covid-19. He stressed, “While this unprecedented fight with Covid-19 pandemic is under way, reports of SARS-CoV-2 in the wastewater opens up several probable pathways of coronavirus spread that has alerted water scientists around the globe. The foremost challenge is to forecast pandemics like Covid-19 with wastewater fingerprint to aid disaster management and mitigation.” David Nilsson, director of the KTH Water Center says that significantly shorter detection time of virus in the wastewater will help us to get an early warning for a second virus wave. “International studies show that the virus can be tracked for weeks once defecated in the environment through excretion and hence we are hopeful to be successful in mapping the new coronavirus using wastewater,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/sewage-water-tests-can-signal-covid/articleshow/75227358.cms||Paul John
April 19, 2020||Bhubaneswar||Covid-19: 13 BMC teams to collect samples||BHUBANESWAR: A day after the state government decided to test thousands of people here for Covid-19, the Bhubaneswar Municipal Corporation (BMC) on Saturday formed 13 teams comprising sanitary inspectors, ward officers, health workers and teachers to collect samples. A total of 750 samples were collected in the first shift from 8 am to 11 am. The second shift was held from 4 pm to 6 pm, officials said. The teams have opened mobile sample collection centres across the city and will keep moving the centres every day. Each team comprises three health workers, two teachers and one sanitary worker. While the health workers are the ones doing the actual sample collecting, the teachers attached to the teams look after documenting each sample collected in a prescribed format. The sanitary workers are ensuring that the centre is sanitized both before and after the collection of sample. BMC deputy commissioner Prem Chandra Chaudhury said the teams would move location every day to cover a large portion of the city. “From Saturday, we started rapid antibody tests. If someone tests positive, he or she will undergo the more definitive RT-PCR test for confirmation,” he said. The Centre has sent 6,000 rapid test kits to the state.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhubaneswar/13-bmc-teams-to-collect-samples/articleshow/75225760.cms||---
April 19, 2020||Aurangabad||Bamu staff donates Rs 17.55L for fight against Covid-19||Aurangabad: The teaching and the non-teaching staff of Dr Babasaheb Ambedkar Marathwada University (Bamu) have donated Rs 17.55 lakh to the Chief Ministers Relief Fund (CMRF) for the battle against the outbreak of Covid-19. They have contributed their one day salary towards the CMRF. Bamu handed over a cheque of Rs 17.55 lakh to the Aurangabad district administration, as per an official release. “In response to the vice chancellor’s (VC) appeal to donate, a total of 570 staffers associated with the teaching and non-teaching departments donated their one day salary. The donors also include the VC, the pro VC, the registrar and statutory officers and other senior officials,” Bamu public relations officer Sanjay Shinde said. Also, the workforce employed on a contact-basis with the university and personnel associated with the security services also donated towards the cause. Their collective share came to be Rs 75,000. “It is a noble gesture from the employees and security personnel to come forward and donate money towards the CMRF,” Shinde said. Earlier, Maharashtra Higher Education Minister Uday Samant had appealed to the state universities and institutions of higher learning in the state to raise donations towards CMRF for financially strengthening the battle against Covid-19. The Swami Ramanand Teerth Marathwada University (SRTMU), Nanded, another state university, has also appealed to its teaching and non-teaching staff to donate towards to CMRF.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/bamu-staff-donates-rs-17-55l-for-fight-against-covid-19/articleshow/75226695.cms||---
April 19, 2020||Madurai||Protocols in place for safe disposal of PPEs, masks: GRH dean||Madurai: After a 36-year-old male sanitary worker at the ‘Covid-19 specialty hospital’ of the Government Rajaji Hospital (GRH) tested positive on Tuesday, dean Dr Sangumani J said that all safety protocols are in place for proper use and disposal of personal protective equipment (PPE) and masks by staff handling the patients. Amid allegations of medical negligence by the hospital in keeping sanitary workers safe, Sangumani explained in detail to TOI the due process followed for safe use and disposal of PPEs, masks and other biomedical waste generated from the Covid-19 isolation wards. “Syringes, swabs, IV sets and PPEs are discarded in double-layered yellow bags as per protocol. All needles are kept in puncture proof containers and then placed in yellow bags. These are then collected and stored separately in temporary storage room and handed over to authorised staff of the central bio-medical waste treatment facility,” he said. The double-layered bags, which are disinfected with 1% hypochlorite solution, are used to prevent any leaks. The bags are then sealed in boxes for transportation. “The team of staff, including sanitary workers at the Covid-19 speciality wards are monitored by an assistant professor for community medicine at all times. The staff function on a rotational basis with quarantine time as well. As per protocol, five days before their shift, workers get their PPEs and goggles,” said Sangumani. He added that all staff have already been given training on how to safely wear, remove and dispose PPEs. There is also a special nodal officer appointed just for supplying PPE kits. Meanwhile, sanitary workers involved in cleaning and disinfection in other wards of GRH are given only masks and gloves. Though the staff have been instructed not to enter the Covid-19 wards without any protective gear, they still remain vulnerable as they are in contact with a huge number of patients and attenders and handle waste as well.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/protocols-in-place-for-safe-disposal-of-ppes-masks-grh-dean/articleshow/75227672.cms||Sukshma Ramakrishnan
April 19, 2020||Vadodara||Positive cases surface from new areas in city||Vadodara: COVID-19 cases were reported from new areas in the city apart from hotspots and localities around them. The total number of cases reported from Vadodara district, including the city, went up to 157 on Saturday. Twelve fresh cases reported in the city on Saturday, also included one case each from New Sama Road, Tandalja, Fatehpura and Diwalipura areas. While Tandalja was declared red zone earlier after a doctor from Nagarwada, who used to work in Tandalja, tested positive, the area had not seen a single case so far. Diwalipura and New Sama Road areas of the city saw elderly women take ill due to COVID-19. The first case from Tandalja was also of a 50-year-old woman. The 10-year-old sister of the girl from Pratapnagar who had died recently due to COVID-19 also tested positive. Dialysis was also performed on a COVID-19 patient at SSG Hospital. This was the first such procedure to be performed in the isolation facility there. A suspected COVID-19 patient delivered a baby at GMERS, Gotri hospital. Sources said testing at SSGH had slowed down as the kits were not found in order and had to be returned. A fresh lot of kits was supplied to the hospital and testing resumed.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/positive-cases-surface-from-new-areas-in-city/articleshow/75226663.cms||---
April 19, 2020||Madurai||Never skip medication, keep fit physically and mentally: Doctors||Madurai: Orthopaedicians and geriatricians urged the elderly people to strictly take their medications for chronic illnesses and follow a healthy diet to ensure they are not deficient in nutrition and also keep their minds refreshed. With most of the aged people dealing with some kind of medical condition, doctors urged them to take extra care amid Covid-19 crisis. “Elderly patients are already vulnerable and hence must stay at home at all cost. We are advising patients to engage themselves in activities like walking and yoga indoors. Meditation, reading, listening to music and even board games will is good for their mental health,” said Dr N Raja, a geriatric physician. He added that more than physical health, many of his patients are more concerned about their mental health and depression is a very common phenomenon. Sleep cycles too may get disturbed for the elderly since many take a nap in the afternoon. Doctors also stressed that all elderly patients dealing with chronic illnesses must take medication as per their schedule and have routine follow-ups done with their doctors over phone. “Complications may occur if medication is missed. Cardiac patients especially must take their regular medication. Blood sugar level and blood pressure must be maintained at healthy levels to avoid any mishap. Regular medicines can be stocked up for at least one month,” said Dr Shanthi G S, head, department of geriatric medicine, Madras Medical College. She also advised patients to try and consult their regular doctor who is aware their medical history. While tele-consultations are useful for routine follow-ups of regular patients, doctors say it is still only a temporary fix during these times of lockdown and that geriatric care has been affected. “Tele-consultations or video consultations are very useful for follow-ups with patients. However, it is difficult to make use of it for new patients. For orthopaedic consultations, when patients suffer swelling or pain, you cannot really depend on just what the patient says or shows on video. A physical examination can only give the full picture,” said Dr S Shanmuganathan, orthopaedic surgeon, AVSS Hospitals.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/never-skip-medication-keep-fit-physically-and-mentally-doctors/articleshow/75227687.cms||Sukshma Ramakrishnan
April 19, 2020||Dehradun||Covid-19 lockdown: Uttarakhand police urges people to stay indoors citing popular Netflix series||DEHRADUN: Quoting the dialogue of a fictional character from a popular Netflix series, Uttarakhand police on Saturday urged state residents to follow Covid-19 guidelines and stay indoors during the nationwide lockdown. The state police uploaded a post relating to Covid-19 lockdown on its Facebook wall along with a photo of actor Alvaro Morte, who has essayed the character of “Professor” in the popular Netflix series “Money Heist”.  Along with his photo, state police wrote a message saying — "When someone asks you why not to go out during #lockdown… B’coz it’s a matter of our security." The line ‘B’cozit’s a matter of our security’ — is a popular dialogue in Money Heist. “This is an innovative step and it appeals to a high number of people. Such characters are especially popular among the younger generation,” said DG (law and order) Ashok Kumar. The senior police official added that in future too, the department would use characters which are popular to spread the message of staying at home among people.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/ukhand-police-urges-people-to-stay-indoors-citing-popular-netflix-series/articleshow/75226706.cms||---
April 19, 2020||Lucknow||UP set to increase Covid-19 testing by 10 times||LUCKNOW: The Uttar Pradesh government has decided to increase coronavirus testing by raising it 10 times of the present level. As on date, around 3,200 tests for Covid-19 infection are being conducted in the state per day. As part of the test augmenting drive, Sanjay Gandhi Post Graduate Institute of Medical Sciences will also be increasing its testing capacity by two-and-half times, said the institute’s director on Saturday. “Testing is a crucial component of the coronavirus containment strategy. In fact, the UP government has decided to scale up testing further and take it to 10 times of what it is now. We at SGPGI would also be putting up more samples for test,” said Prof R K Dhiman, director. At the moment, SGPGI has the capacity to test 400 samples in a day. “Soon, we will be able to conduct 1,000 tests,” said Prof Dhiman. SGPGI is also running a 24X7 telemedicine facility for medical colleges and government hospitals. “We are playing the role of big brother. Our team is running a 24X7 telemedicine helpline to attend dilemma of health professionals. In addition to this, we are also present on digital platforms such as WhatsApp and zoom as well,” said Dhiman. The institute is also training health personnel in handling Covid-19 patients, their treatment and the strict protocols to be followed, he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/up-set-to-increase-testing-by-10-times/articleshow/75227689.cms||---
April 19, 2020||Mysuru||Minister seeks report over three deaths||SHIVAMOGGA: Minister for rural development KS Eshwarappa, who held a review meeting on Covid-19 on Saturday, has expressed anger against McGann authorities for their alleged neglience in the death of three patients at the hospital and for keeping it a secret. He sought a report on the deaths in the district hospital in the past two days. Speaking to media persons, the minister said there were three deaths due to respiratory disorder though they tested negative for Covid-19. “Since McGann officials failed to give full information, I have given directions for an inquiry,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mysuru/minister-seeks-report-over-three-deaths/articleshow/75225774.cms||---
April 19, 2020||Patna||Bihar: Held for stealing, minor boy gets court’s generous aid||PATNA: A Nalanda court on Friday not only ordered the release of a 16-year-old boy, who was detained for theft, but also directed the local police to provide food and clothes for the accused and his family after it came to know that the boy was forced to steal for his “mentally unsound” widow mother and younger brother, who had not eaten for days due to the Covid-19 lockdown. The court did not stop at that. It also directed the block development officer to help the boy’s mother get benefits under the widow pension scheme of the state government. Judicial officer Manvendra Mishra also ordered the BDO, R P Priyadarshi, to allot funds under the government’s housing scheme for the poor and help the boy get his Aadhar card and the family’s ration card at the earliest. According to the police, the minor had snatched the purse of a woman while she was shopping at the local market a few days ago. Footage from a CCTV camera installed at the market led to the boy’s detention by the Islampur police, which produced him before the juvenile justice board at Biharsharif on Friday. “I started working to feed my mentally unsound mother and 13-year-old younger brother after my father’s death. But due to lockdown I couldn’t earn anything and both my mother and younger brother were hungry as there was nothing to eat. I was also very hungry,” a judicial clerk quoted the boy as having told the court. The minor, who lives with his mother and brother in a makeshift house in a village under Islampur police station, further told the court that his mother became mentally unsound after his father’s death. “I used to earn money by working at local restaurants, dhabas or somebody’s house. But the lockdown left no means of earning and my family was on the brink of starvation, which prompted me to commit the crime,” the minor boy told the court. Islampur SHO Sharad Kumar Ranjan said food material was provided to the boy and his family on the direction of the court immediately. “The court has sought an action taken report from officials concerned within four months,” he added. “The main objective behind the whole exercise is to provide opportunities to the minors booked on petty offences to mend their ways. If they were sent to remand homes, there are chances of falling into bad company and thus turning them into big criminals,” said a judicial staffer posted at the Biharsharif civil court. The court order has become talk of the town. “This reminds people of the Rajesh Khanna-starrer Hindi blockbuster Roti,” a Nalanda social activist Tuntun Kumar said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/held-for-stealing-minor-boy-gets-courts-generous-aid/articleshow/75226744.cms||Ramashankar
April 19, 2020||Goa||April showers in parts of Goa lead to dip in temperatures||Panaji: Light to moderate rain affected a few places in North and South Goa on Saturday night. The IMD-Goa had earlier issued a forecast stating that rainfall would be accompanied by lightning, thunder and winds reaching speeds of 30-40 kmph. Showers were reported at Panaji, Bicholim, Mapusa, Porvorim and Mormugao among other areas. The Met department said there is a trough (a certain pattern in the flow of wind which results in moisture accumulation over a region) from Chhattisgarh to Karnataka, which, on Saturday afternoon, was very close to Goa. There was another trough towards the south of the state. The temperature has been on the higher side over the past 4-5 days, as well. All these factors resulted in the formation of dark clouds over Goa this evening. “With these existing weather features, there is possibility of rain in Goa for two more days. As is typical with summer thundershowers, their distribution and intensity may vary from place to place,” IMD said. The clouds are expected to move south westward and affect other talukas, the IMD said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/april-showers-in-parts-of-goa-lead-to-dip-in-temperatures/articleshow/75227688.cms||---
April 19, 2020||Jaipur||Rajasthan CM Ashok Gehlot forms panel to assist states in taking students back from Kota||JAIPUR: Chief minister Ashok Gehlot on Saturday offered all assistance to states willing to take back their students enrolled in Kota coaching centres. The CM has formed a committee to look into the issue and has already started reaching out to governments of different states. With Uttar Pradesh having taken the lead by sending 252 buses to take back its 7,000 students from Kota, it has put several states under pressure to do the same. Estimates say at present there are as many as 8,500 students from Bihar and 2,000 each from Punjab, Haryana, Delhi and Jammu & Kashmir in Kota. Majority of them had already left for their hometowns to appear for their Class 12 board exams.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/gehlot-forms-panel-to-assist-statesin-taking-students-back-from-kota/articleshow/75227697.cms||Shoeb Khan
April 19, 2020||Agra||Eight, including 2 women, jailed for not wearing masks in public||AGRA: Police in Agra’s Loha Mandi area arrested eight persons on Friday for allegedly not wearing face masks when in public. They were charged under section 151 (arrest to prevent the commission of cognizable offences) of the Criminal Procedure Code and presented before an executive magistrate who sent the accused to jail for 14 days. Loha Mandi station house officer Narendra Sharma said, “All the eight accused were caught from different locations, such as Sayeed Pada, Moti Kunj, Nai Basti, Telipada and Naubasta area, where they were either wandering in streets without any specific purpose and that too with without mask or were gathered in groups violating the lockdown. ”The eight were handed over jail term by additional city magistrate-III Mahendra Kumar. The accused were identified as Rizwana, Shama, Afzal, Bholu, Akeel, Ali and Zakeer. District government counsel (criminal) Basant Gupta said, “The accused failed to pay the surety bond of Rs 1 lakh. Hence, for the non-compliance, they were sent to jail for two weeks. ”Notably, in a similar case on Monday, Shahganj police had booked three men for not wearing mask. Recently, Uttar Pradesh government made it compulsory for people to wear mask or hide mouth and nose while stepping out of their houses. Several states have made wearing of face masks mandatory and some of them, like Delhi and Gujarat, have announced jail terms ranging from three to six months for the violators.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/agra/8-including-2-women-jailed-for-not-wearing-masks-in-public/articleshow/75226776.cms||---
April 19, 2020||Jaipur||Coronavirus claims owner of Jaipur‘quarantine hotel’||JAIPUR: The owner of a hotel in city’s Kanti Nagar near Polo Victory, which was initially converted into a quarantine centre for suspected cases of coronavirus, died of Covid-19 on Saturday. A day earlier, health officials had taken a group of over 30 people to this hotel for keeping them under quarantine. This has raised a serious question mark on the functioning of the district administration and the health department, as this group of people was taken to a hotel whose owner was Covid-19 positive. The group was, however, transferred to another centre within hours on Friday, primarily because of resistance from the local people, who were opposed to the hotel in the middle of a residential area turning into a quarantine centre. The hotel owner had tested positive for Covid-19 on April 14 and was admitted to a hospital the next day. He died on Saturday morning. But on April 17, health officials had kept the group of 30-plus people to his hotel for a few hours.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/coronavirus-claimsowner-of-jaipurquarantine-hotel/articleshow/75227696.cms||Ajay Singh
April 19, 2020||Goa||Blood donation camp at Hospicio||The Lions Club of Canacona and JCI Salcete have appealed to people to donate blood at a special camp scheduled for April 24 at Hospicio, between 9.30am and 1pm. “The government has appealed to people to donate blood. All precautions are being taken,” Adrian Torres, president of the Lions Club of Canacona, said. Special passes for donors will be organised on the day. Those interested may call 8007090940, 8830863805 or 9096361990.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/blood-donation-camp-at-hospicio/articleshow/75227694.cms||---
April 19, 2020||Kochi||Monitor IT sector to prevent job loss, techies write to CM||KOCHI: Progressive Techies, an organization working for the welfare of IT employees in the state, has written to chief minister and the state IT secretary requesting them to monitor the IT sector closely to ensure that there is no job loss and set up a helpline to answer their queries. It also called for setting up of a committee to conduct a detailed study for analysing the post-Covid-19 situation, which can be used to formulate the government’s action plans. The letter, which lauded IT companies for speedily enabling work-from-home also requested authorities to allow employees from districts outside where the IT parks are situated, to continue with the option until the situation becomes stable. Congratulating the CM for the Kerala model which gained worldwide appreciation, the letter said employees working in the sector are greatly concerned about the post-Covid-19 challenges which may result in job loss.“Majority of our business inflow comes from the USA, UK and other European countries. They may show a reluctance in continue the business in major sectors such as travel, hospitality, airlines, retail, oil and gas, financial services and manufacturing,” the letter said. The IT sector in the state is spread across 10 IT parks which provide employment to more than 1 lakh people. Thousands of IT employees are working outside these parks as well, it said. It also requested the government to issue an order to avoid any hike in rental amount for six months for IT employees staying near the IT parks. There should also be no hike in rental amount for spaces inside IT parks, it said. Other requests include reduction in taxes, including the one paid to the local body, and reduction in water and electricity bills. A special helpline should also be set up for employees who are stuck abroad for onsite assignments, it added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/monitor-it-sector-to-prevent-job-loss-techies-write-to-cm/articleshow/75226750.cms||---
April 19, 2020||Hubballi||65-year-old woman dies after falling off terrace in Karnataka||DHARWAD: A 65-year-old woman died after accidentally falling off the terrace of her house in Saptapur here on Saturday. The deceased was identified as Saroja Arun Sathe, who after retirement as an officer in the education department was working in a private nursing home in Saptapur. The incident occurred at 8.30am when Saroja went to the terrace to remove coconut leaves that had fallen due to heavy winds and rainfall on Friday night. She lost balance and fell off the terrace. She hit the compound wall of her house and died instantly, police said. Neighbours rushed to the spot and found her dead. Police shifted her body to the district civil hospital for postmortem. Saroja was staying alone in her house. The last rites will be performed after her only daughter reaches Dharwad from Mysuru. A case of unnatural death was registered at Suburban police station.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hubballi/65-year-old-woman-dies-after-falling-off-terrace/articleshow/75220478.cms||---
April 19, 2020||Rajkot||Amreli Covid-free despite huge influx||Rajkot: Following the nation-wide lockdown, Amreli district administration got a major scare as thousands from Surat returned to their natives in local villages. The biggest fear was outbreak of Covid-19 many from Surat could have been carriers of the deadly virus. But much to the relief of the adminsitration, the district so far has not registered a single positive case despite such a huge influx. Officials attribute this to the massive mandatory quarantining measures, door-to-door survey and campaign to sensitize people taken up on warfooting along with stringent police actions against lockdown violators. On Friday too, 73 people who were caught entering the district from different checkposts were immediately sent to the government quarantine facilities irrespective of whether they had symptoms or not. This has been the practice since day one. In one month alone, 80,000 people have poured in the district from Surat. A huge population of Amreli natives are settled in Surat, mostly in diamond cutting and polishing, Talking to TOI, district collector Aayush Oak said, “It’s fortunate that not a single case has been registered in the district. We have maintained strict vigil. Though no system is full proof, our policy to sensitize the village leaders, door-to-door survey and putting maximum people in quarantine as soon as they enter in the district have played a major role.” Oak said the guideline requires to quarantine those who have travel history aboard or other coronavirus-affected cities with symptoms. But in Amreli all those people who came from other districts were put under quarantine even if they had no symptoms. Dr. Bharat Kanabar, a surgeon engaged in examining suspected patients said, “District police has been very strict in enforcing lockdown and they have made Amreli and impervious fort. Vigilant villagers also helped us in identifying outsiders that resulted in screening maximum people.” Amreli district superintendent of police (SP) Nirlipt Rai said, “Among all districts, we have registered maximum number of offences against lockdown violators. Our focus was to ensure social distancing which we started by registering offences under Disaster Management Act and other sections of IPC. “Rai said the local Tabhigi Jamaat leaders have also been very forthcoming in urging the community to go for tests.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/amreli-covid-free-despite-huge-influx/articleshow/75226733.cms||Nimesh Khakhariya
April 19, 2020||Kochi||Kottayam, Idukki shouldn’t misuse relaxation: Experts||KOTTAYAM: The relaxation of restrictions enforced during the lockdown in Kottayam and Idukki districts from Monday is only on an experimental basis and the residents should not feel complacent and venture out of their homes without valid reasons, said experts in the field of infectious diseases. Kottayam and Idukki were identified as green zone in the state as currently there are no positive cases of Covid-19 in the districts. “Relaxations were eased in the two districts for reviving the economy; but it should have been extended if you consider the health perspective of the people,” said Dr Sajith Kumar, head of the department of infectious diseases, Government Medical College Hospital, Kottayam. The doctor said when Covid-related cases have shot up, other health issues have come down during the lockdown period. He cautioned people in the two districts not to misuse the freedom. “Kerala is not an island; it is connected to all parts of the world. Any time, new Covid-19 cases can come up in the two districts,” said the doctor who led the medical team that treated the oldest Covid-19 patients in the country. Thousands of people are still under home quarantine in both these districts. “Anyone of them can test positive for Covid-19,” he said. “The number of cases came down in these districts as a result of a tight lockdown control exercise,” he added. “We still don’t know if there are unidentified individuals carrying the virus causing Covid-19 in these two districts,” he warned. The doctor said people should continue to wear face mask, maintain social distancing, wash hand with soap regularly and restrict journeys. “One should go out only for food, medical treatment or to earn a livelihood,” he said. “The relaxation should not be seen as a permission for social gathering. Hotels should not be made a meeting place,” he added. The doctor also warned the residents about unnecessary visits to hospitals. “The hospital environment is highly unsafe. One should visit hospitals only for emergency,” he said. The residents of both these districts should visit only hospitals near their house, he said. “One should not travel a long distance with fever or any ailment,” he said. The telemedicine and teleconsultation should continue even after the Covid-19 time. District medical officer Jacob Varghese have urged the residents to alert the health officials if someone arrives from outside the state. He also said the surveillance of the people should continue till the disease is brought under control across the world. The officer also urged people to maintain social distance while travelling in public transport like bus. “People know the importance of staying at home. They are now uncomfortable seeing crowds. I think people will go out only if it is necessary,” he said. He also said once the restrictions are lifted in the two districts, pre-monsoon activities of the health department will begin.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/kottayam-idukki-shouldnt-misuse-relaxation-experts/articleshow/75226788.cms||Jaikrishnan Nair
April 19, 2020||Patna||Patna woman tests positive, case tally at 86||PATNA/NALANDA: A 32-year-old woman tested positive for Covid-19 in Patna on Saturday, taking the total number of cases in the state to 86. Two people have died so far and there are currently 47 active cases and 37 people have been cured. The woman is undergoing treatment at the AIIMS-Patna. “She had productive cough, fever, body ache and chest pain at time of admission on Friday and she was complaining of difficulty in breathing for the past two days,” said AIIMS dean Dr Neeraj Agarwal. As per reports from AIIMS-Patna, she neither had any travel history nor had she come in contact with any positive person. A covid positive youth from Vaishali, who died on Friday, also did not have any travel history nor had he come in direct contact with any positive person. The 32-year-old woman is the seventh positive case from Patna and second active case from the city as five have recovered. Patna DM Kumar Ravi said, “Our team has reached the spot and we are tracing all those who came in contact with her. The Patna Municipal Corporation has been instructed to sanitize the area.” On Friday night, a 17-year-old boy from Nalanda and a 42-year-old man from Begusarai tested positive for Covid-19 virus. Both had come in contact with a positive person. The 17-year old from Nalanda is a resident of Biharsharif and had contracted the virus from his maternal uncle, who had returned from Dubai on March 21. The Dubai-returned man has so far transmitted the virus to five relatives, including his wife, father, sister-in-law, father-in-law and nephew. While all his relatives are from Biharsharif, his father-in-law is from Patna. Nalanda civil surgeon Dr Ram Singh said 17 members of his family were quarantined and their samples sent to Patna-based laboratory for test. He added that the screening of 50 others was underway in the locality and several of them would be sent for quarantine. Dr Ram said reports of 14 Tablighi Jamaat members, who attended a two-day conference at Biharsharif's Sheikhana locality on March 14 and 15, days before the lockdown was enforced, have come negative for Covid-19. He said all their family members, relatives and suspected contacts, who have been isolated, too, were tested negative.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/patna-woman-tests-positive-case-tally-at-86/articleshow/75226780.cms||Sheezan Nezami
April 19, 2020||India||No post-corona jump in Sari, influenza tally||NEW DELHI: Hospital admissions of severe acute respiratory illness (SARI) and influenza like illnesses (ILI) cases under government’s health insurance scheme Ayushman Bharat have shown a flat graph in the last three months since January when India reported its first confirmed case of Covid-19, providing evidence that the wider community transmission is yet to begin in India despite hotspots and clusters. Ayushman Bharat data is one of several indicators such as sale of drugs for flu-type illnesses and reporting of such cases in OPDs, clinics and hospitals that the government is closely monitoring to see if there is a spike that suggests a wider Covid-19 transmission that has escaped notice. In a step up of testing, ILI cases are being scanned for Covid-19, while the Ayushman numbers are also providing valuable information. Data from National Health Authority (NHA) shows the number of SARI & ILI admissions in both public and private hospitals together increased by just 8.6% between January and February and thereafter declined in March by 5.4% and 12.9%, as compared to the previous two months. “The fact that there is no significant surge in SARI and ILI hospitalisation indicates that there is no massive undercurrent of an outbreak. It rather confirms that on a national scale Covid-19 outbreak is limited and not out of control,” said NITI Aayog member Dr V K Paul. “The data doesn’t show any spurt and is supportive of the hypothesis that there is no community transmission,” says Indu Bhushan, chief executive of NHA. More on Covid-19Coronavirus pandemic: Complete Coverage21-day lockdown: What will stay open and what won'tHow to quarantine yourself at homeTrust the newspaper for your daily verified newsWhile SARI and ILI cases are a key indicator to determine whether there is community transmission of Covid-19 in India, the flat curve and in fact a drop in such admissions in March could be suggestive that there is only limited local transmission in some areas with higher intensity in the country, senior government officials say. In January, when government started initial screening for Covid, there were 24,127 hospital admissions for SARI and ILI under the government-run health insurance scheme. After lockdown was imposed, the number of hospitalisations dropped to 22,815 in March and 3,024 in April so far. The private sector accounted for around two-third of the total hospitalisation. According to Dr Paul, the lack of growth in SARI-related hospital admissions also shows that most cases are mild and therefore, did not require hospitalisation. The health ministry has maintained there is no evidence of community transmission of Covid-19 so far. However, as cases started increasing, mainly after the spread through Tablighi Jamaat members, many raised concerns about a larger outbreak.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/no-post-corona-jump-in-sari-influenza-tally/articleshow/75227995.cms||Sushmi Dey
April 19, 2020||Agra||Action against SNMC docs for skipping duty||Agra: Uttar Pradesh government has taken action against two senior doctors of Agra’s SN Medical College (SNMC) for allegedly skirting their duties at the time of coronavirus outbreak. It has suspended the HoD of the Medicine department, PK Maheshwari, who quarantined himself at a government designated five star hotel against protocol. Confirming this, principal secretary, medical education, Rajneesh Dubey, said action had been taken against the doctors for dereliction of duty. He said, “Dr Maheshwari had quarantined himself for 14 days in a hotel, which is dedicated for doctors who are deputed in the Covid ward, though he was never posted there.” Dubey told TOI that disciplinary proceedings have also been initiated against head of the paediatric department, Dr Rajeshwar Dayal, who refused to work as the acting principal in the absence of principal of the medical college, on the plea that he had some medical reservations and he gave charge to some other senior faculty in the college. Dubey said, “Agra’s divisional commissioner Anil Kumar has been deputed as the inquiry officer for the probe.” When contacted, Dr Dayal, said, “I have not received any intimation so far. Hence, I cannot comment on it.” Efforts to contact Dr Maheshwari proved futile. Director of the medical college, Dr G K Aneja, said, “I had to go to Delhi for my retinal detachment surgery, which was conducted on March 7 but I resumed my duties two days later on March 9, as the condition in Agra was not good due to the outbreak of coronavirus.” He refused to go into details but confirmed receiving the order. According to sources, though Dr Maheshwari had self quarantined from March 27 to April 10, after one of their resident doctors tested positive for Covid-19, he was coming to the Medicine department for an hour during the so-called quarantine period. Officials claimed that Maheshwari had allegedly done this to avoid his responsibilities. Besides, he was also not authorised to stay in the five star hotel, which was dedicated for doctors of the Covid ward. District magistrate Agra, Prabhu N Singh told TOI that though it was not specified as to who all could avail the facility of staying in the hotel, it was obviously meant only for doctors of Covid wards, who needed to quarantine themselves after completing seven days of duty in the ward, as they could not directly go home. The DM further said, “There were a lot of complaints against Dr Maheshwari for not doing his job properly at the time when everyone is required to give in his best." While Dr Dayal had refused to take charge on the plea that he was suffering from respiratory disease and was on steroids, he requested that the charge be given to another senior doctor in Dr Aneja’s absence.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/agra/action-against-snmc-docs-for-skipping-duty/articleshow/75226792.cms||Anuja Jaiswal
April 19, 2020||Surat||Surat: Currency notes on footpath give a scare!||SURAT: A couple of currency notes totalling Rs 800 lying on a footpath in Chandi Chowk area of Piplod created a Covid-19 scare in the city on Friday. Some people alleged the currency notes were thrown by a person after he applied his saliva and sweat on them. Police took help of a team of Surat Municipal Corporation (SMC) to collect the notes in a bag meant for biomedical waste. The entire area was sanitized and vegetables from a nearby shop disposed of to prevent any chance of infection. A local had alerted the cops about a suspicious-looking person loitering in the area. Police found a Rs 500, a Rs 200 and a Rs 100 note from the area. "The notes were collected without touching them. We wrote to New Civil Hospital (NCH) authorities to examine the notes if they were infected or not,” said Umra police. Some CCTVs installed in shops are not working as shop owners had disconnected electricity supply since March 23. We are trying to find out if any shop owner of the area has the miscreant’s footage,” the police officer said. "The CCTV footage will help us identify the person who dropped the notes. Someone who has business rivalry with the vegetable shop owner might be behind the mischief," the police officer added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/currency-notes-on-footpath-give-a-scare/articleshow/75226784.cms||---
April 19, 2020||Bhubaneswar||Odisha govt eases lockdown norms, allows work on projects||BHUBANESWAR: The state government on Saturday relaxed the lockdown norms by allowing construction of roads, buildings, irrigation and industrial projects in rural areas to facilitate livelihood opportunities for people from April 20. Movement of trucks have also been allowed. In a fresh order based on the Union ministry of home affairs (MHA) April 15 guidelines, the state government allowed NH projects like roads, bridges and flyovers in rural areas. Rural road and bridge construction works under Pradhan Mantri Gram Sadak Yojana, Mukhya Mantri Sadak Yojana, Biju Setu Yojana and other schemes will also be resumed besides construction and maintenance of multi-purpose cyclone shelters and other buildings. The state government has also allowed construction of all ongoing irrigation projects, community lift irrigation projects, implementation of deep bore wells and shallow tubewell projects. Repair and maintenance of river embankments, canal service roads, all ongoing and new drainage works and dredging of river mouths. Development of renewable energy projects and construction of micro, small and medium enterprises (MSME) units have been exempted from lockdown restrictions. Continuation of construction activities in non-hotspot urban areas have also been allowed but with certain conditions. “No worker can be brought from outside,” said a senior government officer. Water supply projects, including household connection works, can be executed. Special relief commissioner P K Jena also issued the standard operating procedure (SOP) for the construction sites to prevent spread of Covid-19. “Social distancing parameters are to be strictly enforced at the worksite among the labourers, technicians, supervisors and others involved. Face masks are also mandatory,” said the SOP. He said there should be provision of sufficient water and soap for frequent hand wash, proper display of do’s and don’ts at the worksite. Also, workers above 60 years of age, sick and with flu-like symptoms should not be allowed at the worksite. “There shall be complete prohibition on tobacco, gutkha and spitting at the worksites. Also anybody detected with severe acute respiratory indications (SARI) and influenza-like symptoms should be reported to the nearest healthcare centre,” stated the SOP. Among other relaxations, the state government allowed movement of all trucks and other goods and carrier vehicles with two drivers and one helper. “Though transportation of goods was allowed during the lockdown, only 5% to 10% of trucks are on roads due to several reasons,” said Rabi Narayan Satapaty, general secretary of Odisha State Truck Owners Federation. Service providers like electricians, IT repairs, plumbers, motor mechanics and carpenters can operate. Similarly, shops that repair and service electrical and electronics appliances and deal with construction equipment and supplies such as cement, iron rods and chips are allowed to operate. Manufacturing of IT hardware have also been exempted from lockdown restrictions. The state government’s decision to allow construction activities has been welcomed by economists. “There should always be a two-way strategy to deal with the Covid-19 pandemic. While we need strict measures to contain spread of the disease, we should also think about securing the livelihood of daily wagers, who work in the unorganised sector. By allowing construction, people in rural areas will be able to earn,” said Samson Maharana, a former commerce professor of Utkal University. Earlier, the state government relaxed the agriculture and allied sectors and allowed MGNREGS works. However, despite the relaxation more than 20 people will not be allowed at the funerals.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhubaneswar/govt-eases-lockdown-norms-allows-work-on-projects/articleshow/75225797.cms||---
April 19, 2020||Cuttack||Odisha govt eases lockdown norms, allows work on projects||BHUBANESWAR: The state government on Saturday relaxed the lockdown norms by allowing construction of roads, buildings, irrigation and industrial projects in rural areas to facilitate livelihood opportunities for people from April 20. Movement of trucks have also been allowed. In a fresh order based on the Union ministry of home affairs (MHA) April 15 guidelines, the state government allowed NH projects like roads, bridges and flyovers in rural areas. Rural road and bridge construction works under Pradhan Mantri Gram Sadak Yojana, Mukhya Mantri Sadak Yojana, Biju Setu Yojana and other schemes will also be resumed besides construction and maintenance of multi-purpose cyclone shelters and other buildings. The state government has also allowed construction of all ongoing irrigation projects, community lift irrigation projects, implementation of deep bore wells and shallow tubewell projects. Repair and maintenance of river embankments, canal service roads, all ongoing and new drainage works and dredging of river mouths. Development of renewable energy projects and construction of micro, small and medium enterprises (MSME) units have been exempted from lockdown restrictions. Continuation of construction activities in non-hotspot urban areas have also been allowed but with certain conditions. “No worker can be brought from outside,” said a senior government officer. Water supply projects, including household connection works, can be executed. Special relief commissioner P K Jena also issued the standard operating procedure (SOP) for the construction sites to prevent spread of Covid-19. “Social distancing parameters are to be strictly enforced at the worksite among the labourers, technicians, supervisors and others involved. Face masks are also mandatory,” said the SOP. He said there should be provision of sufficient water and soap for frequent hand wash, proper display of do’s and don’ts at the worksite. Also, workers above 60 years of age, sick and with flu-like symptoms should not be allowed at the worksite. “There shall be complete prohibition on tobacco, gutkha and spitting at the worksites. Also anybody detected with severe acute respiratory indications (SARI) and influenza-like symptoms should be reported to the nearest healthcare centre,” stated the SOP. Among other relaxations, the state government allowed movement of all trucks and other goods and carrier vehicles with two drivers and one helper. “Though transportation of goods was allowed during the lockdown, only 5% to 10% of trucks are on roads due to several reasons,” said Rabi Narayan Satapaty, general secretary of Odisha State Truck Owners Federation. Service providers like electricians, IT repairs, plumbers, motor mechanics and carpenters can operate. Similarly, shops that repair and service electrical and electronics appliances and deal with construction equipment and supplies such as cement, iron rods and chips are allowed to operate. Manufacturing of IT hardware have also been exempted from lockdown restrictions. The state government’s decision to allow construction activities has been welcomed by economists. “There should always be a two-way strategy to deal with the Covid-19 pandemic. While we need strict measures to contain spread of the disease, we should also think about securing the livelihood of daily wagers, who work in the unorganised sector. By allowing construction, people in rural areas will be able to earn,” said Samson Maharana, a former commerce professor of Utkal University. Earlier, the state government relaxed the agriculture and allied sectors and allowed MGNREGS works. However, despite the relaxation more than 20 people will not be allowed at the funerals.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/cuttack/govt-eases-lockdown-norms-allows-work-on-projects/articleshow/75232343.cms||---
April 19, 2020||Mysuru||Mysuru: Two held for attacking auto driver||HASSAN: An auto driver was attacked with a knife by two men after he questioned them for smoking near a temple in Pension Mohalla police station limits on Saturday. The accused have been arrested. Suyab (19), an auto driver, and his father Farooq (40) from Guddenahalli Koppal are the accused. Naveen, also an auto driver, had questioned them of smoking near the temple. According to police, the attack took place around 9 am. Suyab and his two friends were allegedly taking ganja through cigarettes at the spot near the complainant's house. Under influence of ganja, they started speaking loudly. This disturbed Naveen who questioned them of smoking and screaming in a residential area. However, Suyab attacked him on his cheek with a knife. Farooq, Suyab's father, also supported him. Meanwhile, passersby rushed Naveen to hospital. After preliminary treatment, he went to the police station to lodge a complaint, following which the police arrested the accused.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mysuru/two-held-for-attacking-auto-driver/articleshow/75225793.cms||---
April 19, 2020||Lucknow||UP govt to give MNREGS jobs to migrant labourers||LUCKNOW: Aware of the large-scale migration of workers into UP villages following a lockdown triggered by Covid-19, the state government has decided to provide jobs all those laboures who have come from outside under the Mahatama Gandhi Rural Employment Guarantee Scheme (MNREGS). According to Principal secretary rural development, Manoj Singh, the migration of youth to villages following a lockdown has led to situation of economic distress which can be solved by providing jobs to the youth the under MNREGS. “Youth seeking jobs under MNREGS may be immediately given job cards in their respective villages,” he said. Singh said that if a youth’s name does not figure in the job card of a family then it would be added,” he said. Singh said that as per the guidelines of the Centre, works under MNREGS would be conducted outside the containment area, for which the state government would follow all necessary guidelines of the Centre after April 20 when construction activity would resume. The move is seen as yet another attempt to lend a boost to rural economy hit by the lockdown and subsequent unemployment, leading to the socio-economic slowdown. The principal secretary said that the department would issue a renewed job card to the family if the original one is destroyed or lost. At the gram panchayat level, job cards may be made available to communities like Musahar, Vantangiya, Tharu, besides widows and physically challenged people. The moves comes days after the Centre raised the MNREGS wages from Rs 182 to Rs 201 for UP. Singh said that the stipulated norms of following social distancing be followed during any construction activity under MNREGS. According to the rural development department, preference would be given to works of water conservation, irrigation and works related to affected families hit by the lockdown. The department also plans to take up rejuvenation of 16 rivers, including Manorama, Pandu, Varuna, Sai, Morwa, Mandakini, Tamsa Karnavati and Kalieast. These rivers flow through 39 districts of Uttar Pradesh. “Since the rivers flow through many villages, the work on these rivers could be done by the gram panchayats,” Singh said. The works conducted through MNREGS would also include improvement of quality of land belonging to a private individual and community, besides construction of culverts to prevent flooding. The rural development department also seeks to implement convergence of irrigation, water conservation and ground water and forest department for better implementation of works conducted under MNREGS. Singh said that preference would be given to projects like PM Awas Yojana and Mukhyamantri Awas Yojana and construction of toilets, which generate more employment days.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/up-govt-to-give-mnregs-jobs-to-migrant-labourers/articleshow/75227705.cms||Pankaj Shah
April 19, 2020||Rajkot||Nurse’s maternal love acts as shield to protect her family||Rajkot: This nurse-cum-mother of two has been playing cat and mouse games with her maternal emotions for almost a month now. Before it’s time to head home, she calls up her husband to take out her two young sons in the lane so that she can safely enter the house undetected by their prying eyes. This has become nurse Shyama Vatwani’s daily schedule. Her work at the Veraval Covid Hospital involves serving patients in the isolation ward and even if her heart years to be with her family, she cannot take any chances of infecting anyone, including her one-and-a-half-year-old and seven-year-old sons. “According to the norms, it is mandatory for those people attending to Covid-19 positive patients to quarantine themselves from their families in order to minimize the risk of infection to their family members,” explains Vatwani, her voice choking with unshed tears, while talking to TOI about her isolation.“One of the most heart-wrenching moment of my life is when I have to sing lullaby on a video call to calm down my crying kids,” said Vatwani, who couldn’t carry on while trying to explain her mental trauma at being isolated from her near and dear ones.Nonetheless, bound by duty, she goes on relentlessly, doing her bit to help people recover from the dreaded illness. “I firmly believe that in the fight against coronavirus, one’s duty comes first before the family,” said Vatvani , who hasn’t met anyone in the family so far. She stays isolated in a separate room from where she leaves for the hospital every morning at the crack of dawn, and returns only to sleep at night.Her sacrifices have made the family very proud. “The family members are very proud of our Shyama, who has been serving selflessly, risking her own life,” said husband Vijay, who has been looking after their sons in her absence. “When people like us are making such sacrifices for the people, the people too should cooperate with the law by strictly following the lockdown order,” Vatwani added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/nurses-maternal-love-acts-as-shield-to-protect-her-family/articleshow/75226801.cms||---
April 19, 2020||Kozhikode||My School reaches out to unlock kids’ creativity||MALAPPURAM: As lockdown restrictions kept people indoors, the doors of creativity, research and engagement were thrown open for a group of kids, when ‘My School’ in Tirur launched an online reach-out programme for their students. The programme titled ‘Reach-Out’ was crafted to bring the students together onto a common online platform where they can share their ideas and creativity. WhatsApp became the virtual platform, and age-wise groups were formed with teachers as mentors, coaching over 150 students from ages 3 to 13. Each group, ranging from 15 to 20 students, are given tasks like creating comic-strips, videos, posters and booklets on Covid-19 outbreak. Every week the assignment varies, from preparing a timeline on the spread of the disease, fact sheet on the preventive measures, clay models et al. On Fridays, they present their creative work to the WhatsApp group as video clips. Sherrin Mathew, director of My School, said the programme has been a huge success as almost every student actively participates with a variety of contents. “We launched the programme on March 10, immediately after the government announced the closure of schools. Within one month, students had produced more than 50 video stories and more than 250 posters on Covid-19. The students have already prepared more than 30 booklets on the pandemic. A Class 1 student even performed a dance on the theme,” she said, adding that the school is planning to publish the videos and booklets through a YouTube channel. There are also curated programmes like ‘a walk through my garden’, ‘my art gallery’ and ‘cook with us’, where students share their garden activities, artworks and their cuisines and recipes. The programme was also widely accepted by parents, and students feel that it should be continued throughout the summer vacation. “The programme has made children active and collaborative during the lockdown period,” said Dr Imran Siddiqui, a parent. Shreya Ajith, a Class 1 student of the school, said the activities have helped students to develop their research skills.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kozhikode/my-school-reaches-out-to-unlock-kids-creativity/articleshow/75226810.cms||T P Nijeesh
April 19, 2020||Vijayawada||Roads empty out as rumours put villages on edge||Vijayawada: The satellite villages of Vijayawada are gripped with fear after unverified reports of Covid-19 positive cases spread fast among the villages. The people of villages such as Poranki, Tadigadapa, Penamaluru, Chodavaram, Ganguru and Nidamanuru are panicking after officials confirmed that a retired teacher tested positive for Covid-19 and the source of virus contraction is yet to be established. Apart from one positive case from Chodavaram village, widespread rumours about an RMP doctor from Poranki has been picked by officials along with his family members on the suspicion of virus contraction. However, the commissioner of police Ch Dwaraka Tirumala Rao said that as of now there were no cases reported from Poranki yet. While there have been many cases detected in the city, the villages abutting NH-65 have not reported any cases so far. With the source of contraction is yet to be established in case of the retired teacher, the fears have compounded in these areas. The impact was clearly visible in these areas with lesser number of people seen on roads even in during the relaxation period on Saturday. On the other hand, the city police intensified the enforcement of lockdown in the city, where cases are only increasing. Police chief Dwaraka Tirumala Rao in video statement said that the lockdown would continue till May 3 in the city. Tirumala Rao further said that initially the positive cases reported in the city either have a connection with foreign returnees or those who attended the religious congregation at New Delhi. However, in some of the recent cases, the source of contraction is not established clearly. In such circumstances it is very important for everyone to observe the lockdown to contain the spread of the virus, he said. “Many people are under the impression that there is going to be relaxation in lock down after April 20, but given the prevailing circumstances in the city, it is not possible to lift the lockdown or give relaxation to general public any time soon before May 3,” he said. Tirumala Rao also warned people, especially the youth, not to violate the norms as they will end up in criminal cases. .||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/roads-empty-out-as-rumours-put-villages-on-edge/articleshow/75225828.cms||---
April 19, 2020||Agra||Buffer areas within 5km radius of hotspots in Agra dist to see massive testing||Agra: To stop the spread of novel coronavirus, the Agra district administration is planning to identify buffer zones where massive sample testing will be conducted within a radius of 5 km around places where multiple Covid-19 cases have surfaced so far. A special team of the health department has been constituted to conduct the tests. District magistrate Prabhu N Singh said, “Certain changes have been made in the coronavirus containment plan for the district. We will be expanding the areas of a few existing hotspots in the city from where multiple coronavirus cases have surfaced. These areas will be marked as buffer zone, and massive sampling will be done here. All the people suspected of Covid-19 infection will be shifted to a nearby institutional quarantine facility. The exercise is mainly aimed at stopping the spread of coronavirus.” SN Medical College (SNMC) of Agra is emerging as a major coronavirus hotspot in the city. So far, eight cases of health staffers working in different departments at the government hospital has surfaced. Of these, three are junior doctors and five are supporting staff, including four ward boys. The health department is collecting samples of all the staffers of SNMC. On Saturday, five family members of a ward boy tested positive for Covid-19. Meanwhile, the state government has sent a two-member team, comprising senior doctors of King George Medical University (KGMU). The team has been tasked to find out the reasons behind the increasing number of Covid-19 positive cases in Agra and health staffers getting infected. So far, four patients who had tested positive for Covid-19 have died at SNMC. Chief medical officer Mukesh Kumar Vats said, “So far, 199 Covid-19 cases have been reported in Agra. A total of 21 patients have been cured of the infection and discharged from hospital. All the people who had come in contact with any Covid-19 patient are being identified and screened. The areas around their houses are being sanitized. We are doing massive sample testing to identify infected people and send them to institutional quarantine."||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/agra/buffer-areas-within-5km-radius-of-hotspots-in-agra-dist-to-see-massive-testing/articleshow/75226806.cms||---
April 19, 2020||Vadodara||CCTVs in societies help nab 69 lockdown violators in Vadodara||VADODARA: If you are hanging out in the common area of your apartment or going out for morning walks near your colony, then be prepared to face action. Police have have now begun scanning CCTV footages of the residential colonies and apartments in different areas to track down people who are flouting lockdown rules. “We have been getting lot of complaints against those who are going out for morning walks or hang out in the garden of the apartments. So we are now checking CCTV footages of residential colonies and apartments,” said Anupam Singh Gahlaut, city police commissioner. On Friday, police checked CCTV footages of 44 colonies and apartments and registered FIRs. Sixty-nine persons were booked and arrested for flouting the lockdown rules. “Our teams are already monitoring the CCTVs installed on roads. Nobody who breaks the rules will be spared,” Gahlaut told TOI. Police said that over 1,000 persons have called up police control room since the lockdown was enforced. Over 60% of these calls were about people hanging out at roadside stalls and grocery shops in groups while about 150 calls were about people playing cricket in the colonies. Most of the calls are made by neighbours who are worried that they may get infected. “Our teams keep visiting many residential colonies but people flee from the spot when they see a police vehicle. So, our teams now walk for a distance and catch hold of those who are out on the roads without any valid reason,” Gahlaut added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/cctvs-in-societies-help-nab-69-lockdown-violators/articleshow/75226680.cms||Tushar Tere
April 19, 2020||Thiruvananthapuram||DGP: Always carry self-declaration||Thiruvananthapuram: State police chief Loknath Behera said police have made all preparations for the partial exemptions that will be given to districts on the basis of government’s classification. Behera said on Saturday that though there would be a partial relaxation, people should carry self-declaration. “There would be random checking and if people are carrying self-declaration, it would be convenient. For some interstate and interdistrict movements, even if they get an interstate clearance, checking will become easier if they carry a self-declaration form. It is like a passport or a visa, which can be shown if they are asked,” he said. However, those working in the exempted category, like banks or financial institutions, need to carry their identity card and it will be accepted, he said. The state police chief said under the odd-even scheme for vehicles, it is estimated that 40% vehicles would be off the roads on a day, though government vehicles and those driven by women were exempted. Only three will be allowed in a car. Even if a person belongs to a permitted category, his vehicle will have to follow the odd-even vehicle rule. In two-wheelers, only one passenger is desirable and if travellers are from same family like a husband and wife or father and son, they will be given permission, he said. Behera added that even in districts where there are relaxations, interdistrict movement will not be allowed except for essential services like medical or courier service. He said even within the four districts coming under red zones, movement will be strict, and in containment zones of these districts, only essentials like medical or food supply movement will be permitted.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/thiruvananthapuram/dgp-always-carry-self-declaration/articleshow/75226822.cms||---
April 19, 2020||Agra||Imposter dupes police job aspirants, arrested||AGRA: Firozabad police caught an imposter posing as cop at Shikohabad railway station on Saturday. According to the police, accused, identified as Vipin Kumar of Umar village, was hired by a Mainpuri-based SR coaching institute owner Munesh Kumar. Kumar instructed the accused to lure police aspirants in order to get hefty amount on pretext of getting them a job in the UP police. CO Shikohabad Indu Prabha Singh said, “After getting a tip off, our special operation team nabbed Vipin Kumar who was waiting for a police aspirant in khakee uniform at Shikohabad railway station. During the interrogation, the accused claimed that he was hired by Munesh Kumar to lure victims for direct recruitment in the UP police by paying a hefty sum.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/agra/imposter-dupes-police-job-aspirants-arrested/articleshow/75226815.cms||---
April 19, 2020||Nashik||Shirdi trust provides shelter to 300 homeless people||Nashik: Shri Saibaba Sansthan, Shirdi, has provided shelter to over 300 beggars and homeless people in their ashram amid the current crisis. They are provided with meal every day. Arun Dongre, the chief executive officer of the trust, said “These people have nowhere to go and depend on others for their daily meals and other requirements. The outbreak of the pandemic has caused unimaginable difficulties for them to survive through the period. Hence, we have opened our ashram for them.” The district administration had requested the trust to make facilities available to help the homeless people and beggars, following which the trust made arrangements. “The district administration had asked us if we could make the arrangements. It was manageable hence we opened the halls in our ashram for them,” he said. The trust is providing three meals per day, as they prepare breakfast, lunch and dinner for nearly 2,000 people every day. “We are working with the minimum number of employees in our kitchen and all of them are working hard to feed the poor people. The staff at the kitchen, ashrams, rest houses and temple along with the healthcare staff in our two hospitals, patients and their relatives are given food every day. We make necessary arrangements for everyone as and when asked by the district administration,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/shirdi-trust-provides-shelter-to-300-homeless-people/articleshow/75226819.cms||pragya jain
April 19, 2020||Nashik||Maharashtra: Farmers bring fresh packed veggies, fruits to doorstep||NASHIK/PUNE: Nandini Chhabria of Breach Candy gets a message from a farmer’s group from Nashik, informing her that fresh, properly packed vegetables and fruits would be delivered next couple of hours. Live tracking helps her monitor the movement of the farmers bringing the supplies to her doorstep. For three weeks now, the residents of nearly 20 housing societies in neighbourhood have not had to step outside to buy vegetables. “I came to know about this farmers’ group from the municipal ward official. We have been getting fresh vegetables at our doorstep for the past three weeks. The prices are very reasonable,” she says. Chhabria likes that the farmers are tech-savvy and professional. “They send us a message a few hours before the delivery and send us their live location,” she adds. Using WhatsApp, special apps and Facebook, farmers’ groups from Nashik and Pune connect directly with citizens of Mumbai, Pune and Nashik and selling their produce. They prepare boxes of fruits and vegetables, enough for a family for week, and deliver them to the doorstep. In Pune, Swami Samarth Farmers Producers Co Ltd delivers about 1,000 packages almost daily in Wakad, Baner, Balewadi, Aundh and city’s other parts. Narendra Pawar, founder-member of the group, said says they have two boxes – 13kg of vegetables and 7kg of fruits. “People place their orders online and we ensure that vegetables are delivered fresh. So far we have not faced any issues,” Pawar said. Wakad resident Manu Katre is thrilled to get fresh and clean vegetables at home, all by just placing an order on the phone and paying online. “Besides the good quality of farm produce, the whole process is very convenient,” Katre said. Greenfield Agro Services, which boasts of over 50 farmers from Nashik district, has developed an app. Greenfield’s director Amol Gorhe says they supply nearly two tonnes of vegetables per day to 2,000 customers in Thane. Mukul Mehra, president of Nepean Sea Road Residents’ Association in Mumbai, says, “This (facility) helps us during the lockdown and is also safe as there are no middlemen.” Most of these farmers already sell their produce in weekly markets. “Now, they supply to residents of around two dozen buildings in the Nepean Sea Road area. The chairperson of the society directly contacts the farmers for bulk orders,” Mehra adds. Mandhukar Kangane, who belongs to a group of 250 farmers from Sinnar in Nashik, says they are connected to over 50 housing societies in Nariman Point, Priyadarshini Park, Breach candy and other parts of Mumbai. Chairpersons of housing societies with 50-250 flats contact them and place the orders via phone or WhatsApp. Kangane says a basket of 11kg of vegetables is priced at Rs 500, enough for one family for a week. Sahyadri Farms is a Nashik-based company with over 6,000 farmers among its members. Consumers must place orders through WhatsApp or SMS.“We deliver deliver 300 boxes daily to housing societies in Mumbai, Nashik and Pune,” says Vilas Shinde, chairman, Sahyadri Farms.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/farmers-bring-fresh-packed-veggies-fruits-to-doorstep/articleshow/75229219.cms||Tushar Pawar
April 19, 2020||Pune||Maharashtra: Farmers bring fresh packed veggies, fruits to doorstep||NASHIK/PUNE: Nandini Chhabria of Breach Candy gets a message from a farmer’s group from Nashik, informing her that fresh, properly packed vegetables and fruits would be delivered next couple of hours. Live tracking helps her monitor the movement of the farmers bringing the supplies to her doorstep. For three weeks now, the residents of nearly 20 housing societies in neighbourhood have not had to step outside to buy vegetables. “I came to know about this farmers’ group from the municipal ward official. We have been getting fresh vegetables at our doorstep for the past three weeks. The prices are very reasonable,” she says. Chhabria likes that the farmers are tech-savvy and professional. “They send us a message a few hours before the delivery and send us their live location,” she adds. Using WhatsApp, special apps and Facebook, farmers’ groups from Nashik and Pune connect directly with citizens of Mumbai, Pune and Nashik and selling their produce. They prepare boxes of fruits and vegetables, enough for a family for week, and deliver them to the doorstep. In Pune, Swami Samarth Farmers Producers Co Ltd delivers about 1,000 packages almost daily in Wakad, Baner, Balewadi, Aundh and city’s other parts. Narendra Pawar, founder-member of the group, said says they have two boxes – 13kg of vegetables and 7kg of fruits. “People place their orders online and we ensure that vegetables are delivered fresh. So far we have not faced any issues,” Pawar said. Wakad resident Manu Katre is thrilled to get fresh and clean vegetables at home, all by just placing an order on the phone and paying online. “Besides the good quality of farm produce, the whole process is very convenient,” Katre said. Greenfield Agro Services, which boasts of over 50 farmers from Nashik district, has developed an app. Greenfield’s director Amol Gorhe says they supply nearly two tonnes of vegetables per day to 2,000 customers in Thane. Mukul Mehra, president of Nepean Sea Road Residents’ Association in Mumbai, says, “This (facility) helps us during the lockdown and is also safe as there are no middlemen.” Most of these farmers already sell their produce in weekly markets. “Now, they supply to residents of around two dozen buildings in the Nepean Sea Road area. The chairperson of the society directly contacts the farmers for bulk orders,” Mehra adds. Mandhukar Kangane, who belongs to a group of 250 farmers from Sinnar in Nashik, says they are connected to over 50 housing societies in Nariman Point, Priyadarshini Park, Breach candy and other parts of Mumbai. Chairpersons of housing societies with 50-250 flats contact them and place the orders via phone or WhatsApp. Kangane says a basket of 11kg of vegetables is priced at Rs 500, enough for one family for a week. Sahyadri Farms is a Nashik-based company with over 6,000 farmers among its members. Consumers must place orders through WhatsApp or SMS.“We deliver deliver 300 boxes daily to housing societies in Mumbai, Nashik and Pune,” says Vilas Shinde, chairman, Sahyadri Farms.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/farmers-bring-fresh-packed-veggies-fruits-to-doorstep/articleshow/75227386.cms||Tushar Pawar
April 19, 2020||Hubballi||Third positive Covid-19 case from Gadag||HUBBALLI: Gadag district reported its third positive case on Saturday, a 42-year-old man(P-370) from Ranganwadi area. This is the third case of the district, all the positive cases reported from the same area Ranganwadi. The administration said that P-370 is the secondary contact of P-304, a lady who tested positive to the infection on Thursday. P-370 has parents, a wife, two children —all are under observation and their throat swabs were sent for Covid-19 testing. Efforts are on to trace secondary contacts of P-370. Ranganwadi is a containment area.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hubballi/3rd-positive-covid-19-case-from-gadag/articleshow/75225833.cms||---
April 19, 2020||Pune||Traders keep Mandai shut fearing overcrowding||Pune: The authorities of Mahatma Phule Mandai has abstained from resuming its operations fearing overcrowding and violation of social distancing norms. The vendors from Mandai stated that they were unsure when the operations would resume. The centrally located Mandai supplies vegetables and fruits to smaller vendors. Many residents of nearby areas also visit the market for purchasing vegetables. The market is shut for almost a week. Rajabhau Kasurde, the leader of the traders in Mandai, said he had a meeting with the vendors but the plan to reopen Mandai had been put on hold. The police and the civic administration has sealed the entire market area. The lanes leading to it are also closed. Besides, the wholesale vegetable market at Gultekdi, in the red zone, is shut from the last week. The Agriculture Produce Market Committee authorities are exploring the option of unloading vegetables and fruits at four-five locations on the outskirts of the city. The Khadki market was closed on Friday after six fresh cases from the family of a Covid-19 patient were reported from the area. Pimpri Chinchwad Municipal Corporation has permitted opening of 16 weekly vegetable markets.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/traders-keep-mandai-shut-fearing-overcrowding/articleshow/75227401.cms||Sarang Dastane
April 19, 2020||Pune||Two Covid-19 care hubs open||Pune: The Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) has opened two Covid Care Centres (CCCs) in Shivarkar clinic in Wanowrie and Meenatai Thackeray dispensary in Kondhwa. The PMC zonal medical officer Dinesh Bhende said, “The medical staff at the CCCs will collect swabs of persons suspected of Covid-19. If a person tests positive then the swab will be referred to a higher centre. If a person tests negative, then s/he will be in home or institutional quarantine.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/two-covid-19-care-hubs-open/articleshow/75227404.cms||Asseem Shaikh
April 19, 2020||Patna||Patna: Home innovations using ‘jugaad’ to take on corona||PATNA: At a time when everyone is forced to remain indoors due to the nationwide lockdown, some enterprising individuals have turned their homes into science laboratories to create home-made devices with the help of the ‘great Indian jugaad technology’ to stay safe from the novel coronavirus. Yogesh Kumar, senior auditor at the principal accountant general’s office in Patna, and his daughter Akansha, who is doing her BTech in electronics and telecommunication, have created seven such devices with items easily available at home. The low-cost devices include, “a corona tool, social distancing cap, Covid alert screening device, multipurpose robot vehicle, UV disinfectant box, automatic liquid dispenser and masks”. The social-distancing cap buzzes when someone comes within one metre radius. “It is designed using Arduino as microcontroller and its ultrasonic sensors sense human presence. A servo motor is used to rotate it at 180 degrees. Two ultrasonic sensors are used to cover the area around the person wearing this cap. Apart from common people going to markets, this low-cost solution can be of great use for doctors, nurses and other Covid warriors,” Kumar told TOI on Saturday. The father-daughter duo have been partners in innovation for long. “I am used to discussing technical problems with my father since school days. Papa’s expertise in analogue and my proficiency on digital platforms help us find solutions. I have sent the social distance maintaining cap, Covid alert screening device and multipurpose robot vehicle to MHRD for Fight Corona Ideathon competition as one could send only three models,” Akansha told TOI. They have submitted their creations to the ‘Fight Corona Ideathon Cell’ of the Union HRD ministry. The Covid alert screening device has been made to measure temperature by putting a person’s fingertip on a metal plate. “A microcontroller, a temperature sensor, GSM, LCD screen and power supply are needed to operate it. If anyone has body temperature above normal, an alert would flash on the LCD screen stating ‘Covid suspected! Message sent’ along with temperature in Fahrenheit. Also a buzzer and light get activated. The person’s photo and an alert message are sent to a particular number,” he said. On the UV disinfectant box, Yogesh said it uses ultraviolet radiation, which kills the “DNA of the virus”. One requires a class A UV tubelight, power supply, medium-sized box, timer and a switch. “We use currency, wallet, ATM cards, handkerchief while going to the market. We just have to put our belongings in the disinfectant box for a particular time. Even if we forget to collect things out from the box, the timer inside switches it off after certain period. It is turned on only when the box is closed,” he said. The corona tool is also made using ‘jugaad’ to sanitise door handles, lift buttons and carry bags. “This affordable tool has been made using an empty spray bottle filled with sanitiser and attached to an L-shaped tool with tape. This can be used to press lift switches and door handles and sanitise them immediately after each use,” he said. The robot vehicle can be used in isolation wards and ICUs of hospitals to spray disinfectant or sending any item to a patient. “The simple technology of the robot car is used with RC transmitter and receiver. There is a night vision camera which allows 360 degrees rotation to monitor the areas. Audio can be heard and recorded from both sides. An announcement can be made by using the camera. The vehicle also has a sanitisation tank with pump. Once pressed the switch remotely, it can sanitize the area,” Yogesh said. On the liquid dispenser, Yogesh said many people press the same sanitiser bottle in a shop or workplace, which is unhygienic. “The automatic dispenser releases the liquid as soon as a person brings his hands near its nozzle. Its advantage is that the bottle of any sanitizer or soap dispenser can be adjusted in it,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/home-innovations-using-jugaad-to-take-on-corona/articleshow/75226827.cms||Jai Narain Pandey
April 19, 2020||Kozhikode||Kerala: Cops leading ‘creative’ fightback in hard times||KANNUR: They often say creating something in the face of disaster can help in giving you a sense of control. In addition, artistic or creative endeavours can give you an outlet to release emotional burden. Ask the state’s policemen. They have been putting their creative talents to use to both engage with the at-risk public and inform them about the raging pandemic. Nirbhayam, a music video made by Kochi city police was one of the first such initiatives to have grabbed eyeballs. Even Kamal Hassan gave it a thumbs-up. When ‘triple lockdown’ was imposed in parts of Kasaragod, the district police launched a scheme to deliver essential commodities at homes. To help the message reach more people, IG Vijaya Sakhare suggested creating a short video for social media. “It has become a hit and I think it is the best way to reach out to the people,” said police inspector and ‘Thondimuthalum Driksakshiyum’ fame Sibi Thomas, who acted in the short film along with his wife. The video has been seen and shared by hundreds after it was uploaded on social media. Another one, by Babudas Kodoth, a short filmmaker and senior civil police officer, at Trikkaripur Coastal Police Station in Kasaragod too generated an online buzz. Visual narratives have a better impact in sensitizing people, that is why we made the short film, said Babudas. On the other hand, a team from Maloor police station in Kannur uses magic to inform people about the virus spread and the need for taking precautions. “The idea struck us when we saw a girl and her father walking around without wearing masks. We felt we should make them aware of the importance of wearing masks in public. So, I put two pieces of paper into her empty bag and took out a mask and a leaflet about preventive measures,” said Rajeevan T Vengad, a senior civil police officer, and a magician and psychotherapist. Kannur district administration has also released a campaign song on breaking the chain of the virus.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kozhikode/cops-leading-creative-fightback-in-hard-times/articleshow/75226833.cms||P Sudhakaran
April 19, 2020||Agra||Jalma Institute to start Covid-19 tests||AGRA: After Agra’s SN Medical College (SNMC), now the Japanese Leprosy Mission for Asia (Jalma) institute in the city is going to start testing suspects for Covid-19. The national institute for leprosy and other mycobacterial diseases is a wing of Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR). Following an increase in the number of novel coronavirus cases, the state government had proposed the ICMR to start the Covid-19 testing facility at the centre. Other than this, the state government has also asked the SNMC administration to increase the sample testing capacity to at least 100 per day. District magistrate Prabhu N Singh said, “The Jalma institute will start Covid-19 testing facility on Tuesday. A team of doctors from the institute have completed the required training to run the testing facility. Soon, we will be able to get 300 samples tested in Agra in a day. The microbiology lab at SNMC will be testing 100 samples. The Jalma institute will be testing 200 samples”. Jalma institute director Shripad A. Patil said, “Following orders from ICMR, a team of doctors have completed the training at the national institute of biologicals (Noida) and national institute of malaria research in Delhi to conduct testing of novel coronavirus samples. We have ordered a Reverse Transcription Polymerase Chain Reaction (RT-PCR) machine from Germany. The machine will be delivered on Sunday. The testing of Covid-19 will be done at the biological safety level 3 lab in the institute. The operations will start on Tuesday.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/agra/jalma-institute-to-start-covid-19-tests/articleshow/75226824.cms||---
April 19, 2020||Nashik||Schools to pay 50% salary to teachers for April||Nashik: The English Medium Schools Association has decided to pay 50% salary to the teaching staff for April and the rest of the amount will be paid after the lockdown period is over. The association wants to utilise the funds judiciously as they want their funds to last till the schools resume usual functioning. Himgauri Adke Aher, the chairperson of English Medium Schools Association, said “More or less all schools have cleared the salaries of the teaching and non-teaching staff for March. We have decided to make half payments to the teachers from the next month. Rest of their salaries will be given once the lockdown is lifted and we can begin collecting fees from the parents.” This comes after the schools received instructions from the state government about not collecting the fees for three months. They have been directed to not force any parent to pay the fees for the next academic year. The decision of deferred payment of salaries is only for the teaching staff. The support staff will receive full payment for the coming months. “We have decided that the support staff should receive the full payment as they get comparatively less payment than the teachers,” said Aher. “The members of the association had discussed over a conference call to reduce the payment of the support staff to 75% but since they have to pay their EMIs and other dues, it will be difficult for them to sustain for a long period of time,” said the chairperson While there are few schools which have an electronic clearance system for paying the salaries and do not want to interfere with the system, the others have accepted the decision taken by the association to pay the accrued salaries in due course of time. Aher also said that parents will be reluctant to send their children to school soon. She also said that the parents of kindergarten students may opt for home schooling which will affect the number of new admissions this year. “I am relieved that the school has decided to pay at least half of our salaries and promised that they will give the rest of it later. It is better than the complete denial of salaries. Although we are staying at home, the fixed expenses cannot be averted,” a teacher said. The teaching staff in all the schools are taking online classes.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/schools-to-pay-50-salary-to-teachers-for-april/articleshow/75226825.cms||pragya jain
April 19, 2020||Nashik||Nashik Tamil Sangam donates 25 litre of sanitiser||Nashik: The members of Nashik Tamil Sangam have donated 25 litre of sanitiser to the city police. B Ramamoorthy Raju, the president of Nashik Tamil Sangam said “I stay at Gangapur Road and I see police personnel working hard day and night. Any small contribution is useful in this time of crisis.” The 25 litre of the sanitiser costed Rs 6,000. The Nashik Tamil Sangam reached out to the local police station to make the donation. “We are thankful to the police fraternity for staying alert and helping out the people of the city. Our community is willing to contribute and support the government in any way we can,” he said. The district administration is providing food packets and grocery to 90 idli selling Tamil families who were in distress as they were not allowed to sell idli due to the lockdown||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/nashik-tamil-sangam-donates-25-litre-of-sanitiser/articleshow/75226835.cms||pragya jain
April 19, 2020||Nagpur||MLA Khopde puts off son’s marriage due to lockdown||Nagpur: The wedding of MLA Krishna Khopde’s son Rohit with Chaitali Talmale scheduled on Sunday has been postponed due to the extended lockdown. The decision was taken on Saturday. The three-time BJP MLA told TOI that Rohit was engaged with Chaitali on February 20. “The marriage date was fixed and all the preparation were done. We thought the coronavirus outbreak will be brought under control and lockdown will be withdrawn on April 15,” said Khopde.Khopde had planned a big-scale wedding for his youngest son. “When we heard PM Narendra Modi’s speech on April 14 about extension of lockdown till May 3, we immediately decided to postpone the marriage to post Diwali this year. The bride’s family too supported our decision,” he said.The reception was to be held on April 20. Sources in family said that Khopde had planned to distribute 20,000 wedding invitations, however, bride’s family distributed fewer invitations.“Both the families are sending WhatsApp messages and calling our relatives to inform about the decision,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/mla-khopde-puts-off-sons-marriage-due-to-lockdown/articleshow/75225073.cms||Proshun Chakraborty
April 19, 2020||Jaipur||Stuck in Rajasthan for 32 days, Jammu and Kashmir students run out of patience||JAISALMER: Another bid to send 53 Indian students, who were airlifted from Iran on March 16, to their home states has failed. The students, majority of whom are from J&K, observed hunger strike for two days at the Army quarantine centre in Jaisalmer. After persuasion by the district administration, they called off the strike. All the students had tested negative for Covid-19 after the 15-day quarantine period. On the request of the Army, Jaisalmer district administration had tried for a second time to get permission to send the students back to their home states. However, the Union home ministry has turned down the request. The students were hopeful that after the end of first lockdown on April 14, they would be sent back to their states. But, now the Centre has extended the lockdown. In protest, the students sat on hunger strike on April 15 night. Somehow, the Army officers convinced them. But on April 16, they resumed the hunger strike after which the Army informed the district collector. Learning about the hunger strike, the administration sent a team to persuade the students to stay in the quarantine centre till the lockdown ends. Later, the district SP sent a team led by city SHO who counselled the students to remain clam. “On the night of April 16, the Army officers called me informing about the students going on a hunger strike. A team of administration led by additional collector O P Vishnoi was sent at midnight to the military station where the children were persuaded and counselling was done,” Jaisalmer district collector Namit Mehta said. He said that Jaisalmer district administration had once again tried to send them back to their states but were unable to get clearance from the Centre. On March 16, 56 Indian students from Iran were airlifted and brought to Jaisalmer military station. Their 15-day quarantine period got over on April 1. All of them tested negative.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/stuck-in-raj-for-32-days-jk-students-run-out-of-patience/articleshow/75227949.cms||---
April 19, 2020||Jaipur||Mercury rising: People suffer as AC and cooler shops shut in Rajasthan||JAIPUR: Mercury shot up across the state on Saturday though showers at a few places gave some respite. The maximum temperatures at most places hovered around the 40°C mark while the minimum was around 27°C. Kota remained hottest logging 40.9°C. The rising temperature is causing hardships for people as shops selling and repairing ACs and coolers are shut due to the lockdown. Jaipur Met office has forecast mild showers and dust storms in the next couple of days which might bring in some respite. The city woke up to a comparatively warmer morning with the minimum temperature clocking 27.3°C. Within hours, the state capital recorded a maximum temperature of 38.6°C. “I urge the state government to ensure that at least cooler and AC repair shops be opened where the mercury will cross the 45°C-mark soon,” said Pradeep Shekhawat, a native of Jhotwara’s Ram Nagar locality.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/mercury-rising-people-suffer-as-ac-and-cooler-shops-shut/articleshow/75227953.cms||---
April 19, 2020||Nashik||NTA office bearers sceptical about transport business||Nashik: The office bearers of the Nashik Transport Association are sceptical about the goods transport business gaining momentum in the near future as most of the markets are closed, and the truck drivers and helpers have gone back to their native places amid the outbreak of Covid-19. The government has decided to permit transportation of goods irrespective of essential or non-essential goods from April 20. Rajendra Phad, president of NTA said, “The lockdown is essential with the outbreak of Covid-19. Many of our drivers and helpers from UP, MP and other places have gone back to their native places. Their chances of returning are very less as Covid 19 cases are increasing in Nashik and other parts of the country.” Many truck drivers also fear backlash from their neighbours and relatives if they start driving from one place to another given the present scenario. There are close to 6,500 trucks attached to the Nashik Transport Association (NTA). Senior office bearers of NTA said that a major season of goods transportation is gone. “During this season every year, close to 1,000 trucks loaded with onions, grapes and tomatoes used to leave from Nashik. Even though these fall under essentials, only 100 trucks left from Nashik this time with these agricultural produces as most of the markets are closed,” said senior office bearers. The situation of goods transportation is unlikely to gain momentum as it was before the spread of Covid-19. NTA office bearers said that though goods transportation has been permitted from April 20. If bigger industries do not start functioning, the smaller ones would also not function. Eventually, this will affect on the transport industry. The office bearers said that till Covid-19 is not completely eliminated, the transport industry will continue to witness a slowdown. Phad said that over the past one month the transport activity in the district has suffered a loss of over Rs 60 crore and the losses would be incurred even in the future.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/nta-office-bearers-sceptical-about-transport-business/articleshow/75226843.cms||Santosh Sonawane
April 19, 2020||Rajkot||Gujarat: Edible oil prices may spike if imports stay dull||RAJKOT: The Saurashtra Oil Mills Association (SOMA) has urged the union government to remove restrictions on import of refined palm oil to meet the huge shortfall in the domestic edible oil market owing to the lockdown. The largest organization of groundnut oil millers has also warned that if there was no relaxation in import of palm oil, the price of edible oil in domestic market would shoot up in next one month. According to SOMA’s estimate, the current edible oil deficit in the country was 15-17 lakh tonne taking into account the increase in domestic production by 2 lakh tonne and fall in demand of edible oil as all hotels and restaurants are closed due to lockdown. The oil miller indicated that there was a sharp decrease in the import of edible oils because of global coronavirus pandemic. India imports 12-14 lakh tonne of edible oil every month. This had decrease by 10-15% in November and December. The imports decreased further 20-30% in January and February. “In March the import was down 40% and in April it further expected to decrease to 60-70%,” said SOMA president Samir Shah.“India’s maximum import is palm oil. The union government had put restriction on its import in January to utilize the domestic refining capacity. We have now requested the government to put this commodity again in free import category,” Shah told TOI.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/ease-in-import-of-palm-oil-demanded/articleshow/75226857.cms||Nimesh Khakhariya
April 19, 2020||Jaipur||Jaipur cops book BJP MLA Ashok Lahoti for spreading fake news on Covid-19||JAIPUR: Sanganer BJP MLA Ashok Lahoti was booked by police for giving inflammatory speeches and spreading fake news about Covid-19. A resident of Rajat Path in Mansarovar lodged a complaint against the MLA at the local police station claiming that Lahoti was instrumental in spreading disharmony. Mansarovar SHO Suneel Kumar said, “We received a complaint on Friday night from a local resident who alleged that Lahoti was spreading fake news and trying to promote communal disharmony. Apparently, the complainant came across the MLA’s press releases in which something to this effect was written. We have registered a case.” Officials claimed that when a case against an MLA is registered, it is transferred to a higher authority. “When a case is registered against an MLA and political leaders, it is transferred to CID-CB and we have also prepared the file which we forwarded to them. Now, they will carry out further investigation to check the veracity of the allegations.” A case under IPC sections 188 (Disobedience to order duly promulgated by public servant), 505 (Statements conducing to public mischief) and others have been registered against the MLA.  Last year too, the ACB had registered a case against Lahoti and others after receiving a complaint that he had misused his powers when he held the post of mayor.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/cops-book-bjp-mla-lahoti-for-spreading-fake-news-on-covid-19/articleshow/75227951.cms||---
April 19, 2020||Jaipur||Rajasthan: Over 5,000 Kota students leave for home||KOTA: At least 5,000 coaching students left the city for their hometowns in Uttar Pradesh (UP) in 173 of the 250 UP buses on Saturday. The remaining buses are scheduled to set out for UP by late Saturday night. For maintaining social distancing, just 30 students are being allowed in a 60-seater bus. Nearly 2,500-3,000 students are still waiting to return to their hometowns in UP as their number has shot beyond the estimated 7,500 students. The UP government has assured the Kota district administration to send more buses in case 250 buses fall short. The district administration too has arranged additional buses for these students. “At least 3,000 students left in 100 buses for their respective hometowns in UP late on Friday night. The process to send off the students enlisted by district administration from various institutes of the city in the remaining buses continued on Saturday,” said ASP Rajesh Meel, who is supervising the task with ADM (admin). “The district administration has enlisted students from various institutes of the city in accordance with the number of buses sent by the UP government,” Meel said. The buses are being sanitised and the students are being thermally screened before being allowed to board the buses. Besides, food packets, water bottles and masks are also being provided to them. The students from Jhansi Mandal were the first to board the buses followed by those from Agra Mandal. Students from various cities of UP engaged in self-study in Kota too are being sent to their hometowns. Parents are accompanying some of these students. Kota district PRO Hariom Gurjar said that the UP government on Friday night assured to send more buses in case the 250 buses fall short. The Kota district administration too has made arrangements for extra buses to take the students to UP, he added. “Arrangements would be made to send all the remaining students to their respective hometowns in UP,” Gurjar said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/over-5k-kota-students-leave-for-home/articleshow/75227950.cms||---
April 19, 2020||Jaipur||Rajasthan: Farmers wary as locusts make comeback in Jaisalmer||JAISALMER: Amid the coronavirus crisis, locusts from across the border have entered into Jaisalmer. The locust control department, however, destroyed a few swarms of locusts in Tanot area, while two days ago locusts which reached Hindumalkot area in Ganganagar were destroyed by the department. Jaisalmer collector Namit Mehta shot a letter to the agriculture department and locust control department seeking to know if locusts can make a return in May. Control rooms are being set up at SDM and district headquarters. Mehta said small swarms of locusts were seen at Babliyan BOP in Tanot area and BSF officials alerted the district administration. Locust control teams were formed and sent to the border outposts. The teams destroyed the swarms so that they could not reach Jaisalmer. He said there is information that swarms of locusts can cross the Tanot-Babliyan border area in May for which order has been placed for a sprayer tractor, vehicles, necessary quantity of medicines and human resources and deployment of agriculture supervisors in the border areas.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/farmers-wary-as-locusts-make-comeback-in-jaisalmer/articleshow/75227952.cms||---
April 19, 2020||Hubballi||Kharadi Oni declared containment zone after resident tests +ve||HUBBALLI: Kharadi Oni and surrounding 100-metre area in Hubballi was declared containment zone after a 63-year-old resident (P-363) tested positive for Covid-19 on Saturday. The district administration has also declared 5-km radius around Kharadi Oni as buffer zone under which 1-km area has been categorised as intense buffer zone. The administration said strict social distancing measures will be followed and the police will keep tight vigil in the area to stem the spread of the pandemic All the exit and entry points leading to Kharadi Oni and surrounding areas except one each will be sealed with brick wall to prevent non-essential movement of people and vehicles, they added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hubballi/kharadi-oni-declared-containment-zone-after-resident-tests-ve/articleshow/75225894.cms||---
April 19, 2020||Nashik||Cops distribute essentials to migrants in Panchavati||Nashik: The central unit of the crime branch on Friday distributed essential materials to migrant workers in the Panchavati area of the city. Seetaram Kolhe, senior police inspector of crime branch unit 1, said that the activity was taken up in the Krushna Nagar area of Panchavati in association with a private bank. He said that the materials were distributed by observing all the social distancing norms. The workers have been jobless for past one month due to the ongoing crisis. This situation is only driving them to proceed towards their respective native places with whatever means that are available to them,” said Kolhe. Officers of the central crime branch said that the workers were getting impatient to move out of the city and head towards their native places after the lockdown was extended. “The money with the workers exhausted and they were wondering about their survival after the lockdown was extended for another three weeks on April 14,” said an officer. The police said that they approached a senior officer of a private bank Dinesh Nachit, who assured to provide all the necessary articles to the workers like wheat, rice, groundnuts, pulses, oil, tea powder, sugar, soaps, etc. Many migrants are getting detained in various parts of the district and the state. “If they are provided with the basic necessities for survival, the families of the workers would stay put at their current locations and thereby not endanger themselves of getting infected by Covid 19,” Kolhe added. In view of all such things, the private bank was approached by the police to see if help to the workers of Panchavati was possible. Many organisations have also come ahead to provide basic essential articles to the poor for survival until the lockdown is over.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/cops-distribute-essentials-to-migrants-in-panchavati/articleshow/75226858.cms||Santosh Sonawane
April 19, 2020||Kolkata||Kolkata: Most fall in line, some play cat-and-mouse with cops||KOLKATA: Even as police and civic authorities sought to tighten the lockdown grip on sensitive pockets in the city on Saturday, residents reacted differently, with some realizing the gravity of the situation and adhering to the ground rules and others throwing caution to the winds, putting themselves as well as those nearby at risk. Around 40 wards in Kolkata have been declared “sensitive”, requiring stricter measures to ensure social distancing, including enforced stay-at-home diktat. Essentials, like medicines and groceries, are being made available at their doorsteps. TimesViewPeople in high-risk zones will have to go through this, more for their own benefit. A withdrawal of the lock-down is in order in the first week of May and it is imperative to flatten the coronavirus-infection curve before that.In south Kolkata areas, such as Mudiali and Chetla, neighbourhoods were absolutely deserted as residents stayed indoors, both out of fear of contracting the virus as well as police action. But in several other pockets of south-east and central Kolkata, like Beniapukur, Topsia, Park Circus and Taltala, it was a cat-and-mouse game between the cops and youngsters. A majority of the population in Narkeldanga and Belgachhia complied but stray incidents of defiance were also reported. Keen to enforce discipline in sensitive zones, the Kolkata Police seniors, including commissioner Anuj Sharma, hit the streets on Saturday morning to take stock of the situation. By evening, police planned to deploy a section of its elite combat battalion in some “difficult” pockets where enforcement was proving a challenge. Health officials from a special KMC medical team doing the rounds raised an alert on seeing large number of people on the roads in Beniapukur, Taltala, Bowbazar, Topsia, Tiljala and Park Circus, all marked “high-risk zones”. “Given how some people in those areas have been flouting the lockdown rules, police have to take stern measures. Otherwise, everyone will suffer,” said a KMC senior official. In contrast, the compliance in Belgachhia and Narkeldanga was much improved on Saturday, with most staying indoors. But there were odd violations, with bikers trying to sneak out and some getting into arguments with police on the restrictions. Senior police officers said the guidelines for compliance of lockdown might have to be made more stringent in parts of central and north Kolkata, where people did not adhere to the repeated requests and pleas, both from local representatives and cops. Though the violation count did come down, police continued to struggle to keep people indoors. On Damzen Lane, Colutolla Lane, Heron Babu Lane, Tara Chand Dutta Street and K K Tagore Street, people were seen walking about without even bothering to wear masks. “Only two out of five people wore masks when they were on the streets. We have been distributing masks to encourage people to wear them but it is difficult to make them do so. Tea shops that spring up near labour quarters are a problem as people assemble there in no time. We are constantly urging people to stay at home and step out only when it’s urgent but it’s had little effect,” said an officer. In Mudiali and Chetla though, cops on duty were a relaxed lot as people remained indoors. The lockdown was complete on Keshab Das Road and Rajani Sen Lane. “Police have put up guard rails at all important entrances to cordon off about 120m. We are 100 families. Cops from the Tollygunge police station created a WhatsApp group on Friday. We are sending requests of our requirements, such as milk and bread, on it and cops are arranging for the essentials from designated grocery shops. It is being delivered to the houses by cops. If someone has an emergency that requires him or her to step out, a cop is accompanying the person,” said Ashok Dey, a resident of the “sensitive” zone. In Chetla, cops roped in local youths to cater to the needs of locked-in residents. Youngsters deployed by the local civic administration were asked to help out residents, especially the elderly. “We arranged for food and medicines for the elderly and the ailing,” said a KMC health official. In these trying times, peace committees across Ram Mandir and Belgachhia are also playing a role. “They are spreading awareness. WhatsApp groups have been formed and beat officers added to them. This has eased the pressure on reaching out to one and all,” said Satrajit Saha, a lawyer living in the Ram Mandir area.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/most-fall-in-line-some-play-cat-and-mouse-with-cops/articleshow/75227415.cms||Saikat Ray
April 19, 2020||Vadodara||Patients record videos of Covid-19 hospital to show its poor condition in Vadodara||VADODARA: A plethora of problems are surfacing at GMERS Medical College and Hospital, Gotri which house Vadodara’s dedicated COVID-19 hospital and hostel premises where suspects are kept under quarantine. On Saturday, videos recorded by three patients, including two suspects and a COVID-19 positive patient, went viral on social media. An unidentified female recorded a video of dirty washrooms where water is either not being supplied or supply is not enough to meet a patient’s requirement. She can be heard questioning how people can stay in such unhygienic conditions. In another video, a man who identifies himself as Bijal Shah claimed that he had come to the hospital for COVID-19 test on April 15 after he had chest pain, but has not received test results till date. “I was told that my reports will arrive within 24 hours. But on Saturday afternoon, I was told by the staff that they don’t know the whereabouts of the samples sent to SSG Hospital. I was asked to give my samples for the third time,” he said, adding that despite being a suspect he has been allocated a room on a floor which also has 4-5 COVID-19 positive patients. Shakeel Ala, a resident of Nagarwada, complained that doctors are not addressing his problems even as he had voluntarily arrived at the hospital where he later tested positive. Ala said while he appreciates work done by Vadodara Municipal Corporation (VMC) and police department, doctors at Gotri hospital are not addressing his simple queries like getting hot water. Officials of GMERS Medical College and Hospital rued that some patients are making unreasonable demands at the time of a crisis when the entire focus is on treatment. Dr Minoo Patel, honorary adviser to the hospital, told TOI that he will look into the concerns raised by the patients. “I will ask the staff, who are handling the premises, to look into these complaints,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/patients-record-videos-of-covid-19-hospital-to-show-its-poor-condition/articleshow/75226715.cms||---
April 19, 2020||Vijayawada||Andhra Pradesh DGP lauds woman for her kind gesture||VIJAYAWADA: A video showing one Lokamani serving soft drinks to cops on lockdown duty recently went viral on social media. It also caught the eye of DGP Gautam D Sawang. He immediately asked the local officers to arrange a meeting with her through video conference to thank her. Lokamani of Tuni in East Godavari district works as an attendee in a private hospital. She earns a meagre Rs 3,500 per month. On April 15 she bought two bottles of soft drinks for the cops on duty. The police personnel, moved by her gesture, asked her to give some of the it to the children and even gave her some of the items they had and asked her to be at home and motivate others to do the same. During a video conference with all district officers on Saturday, Sawang also spoke to Lokamani. He lauded her for her gesture.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/dgp-lauds-woman-for-her-kind-gesture/articleshow/75225892.cms||---
April 19, 2020||Business||Committed to helping MSMEs, assures PM Modi||NEW DELHI: Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Saturday reiterated the Centre’s commitment to help micro, small and medium enterprises (MSMEs) as he endorsed the measures taken by the CBDT, including release of pending income tax refunds, to help them tide over the Covid-19 crisis. “Committed to helping our dynamic small and medium businesses,” the PM tweeted, sharing the CBDT statement. As a relief to MSMEs, income tax refunds worth Rs.5,204 crore have been released by CBDT in the last 10 days to nearly 8.2 lakh small businesses to help them carry on their business activities without pay cuts/layoffs in the wake of the Covid-19 pandemic. Hailing the efforts of various ministries in the face of the unprecedented challenge, the PM responded to tweets by his cabinet colleagues on how efforts were being made to help the people amid the lockdown. “Kudos to all those working round the clock, across the nation, to ensure India’s energy needs are met,” Modi tweeted replying to petroleum minister Dharmendra Pradhan, who had tweeted about how he interacted with the LPG delivery boys through video conferencing to encourage them as they risked their lives even in the lockdown period. The world is fighting COVID-19 together. Humanity will surely overcome this pandemic. https://t.co/7Kgwp1TU6A— Narendra Modi (@narendramodi) 1587190022000He said humanity will surely overcome the pandemic. “The world is fighting Covid-19 together. Humanity will surely overcome this pandemic,” Modi wrote on Twitter.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/committed-to-helping-msmes-assures-pm-modi/articleshow/75228004.cms||---
April 19, 2020||Aurangabad||2 young leopards poisoned in Nanded||Aurangabad: Two young leopards have died due to poisoning in the Kinwat tehsil limits of Marathwada’s Nanded district, about 350 km from here, said the forest department officials on Saturday. One of the big cats was found dead inside a farm near the Tallari-Zalakwadi forest area of Kinwat on Wednesday, while another leopard was found dead in the same area on Saturday. With this, three leopards have died in Marathwada within less than a week, drawing angry reactions from conservationists. Talking about the two Kinwat leopard deaths, Aurangabad’s chief conservator of forests (territorial) P K Mahajan said that preliminary investigation has revealed that both leopards were poisoned. “As per local forest department authorities, both the leopards were poisoned by unidentified villagers. A few pet dogs in the area were allegedly killed by the leopards. Therefore, the villagers are said to have poisoned the big cats,” he said. The dead leopards in Kinwat included one male and one female, both aged between two and three years, the officials said. The area comes under the jurisdiction of Forest Development Corporation of Maharashtra (FDCM) Limited, which is engaged by the state government to plant and cultivate varieties of forest plants, trees and crops. FDCM divisional manager S H Vaze said no offence has been registered in connection with the death of two leopards. “We have deployed our staff to carry out investigations and identify the suspects. Once the probe is done, a formal complaint will be lodged with the police,” he said. Conservationists and wildlife experts have demanded stern action. Environmentalist Kishor Pathak said the forest department and FDCM the must take criminal action against the locals for poisoning the leopards. “It is outrageous. Three young leopards lost their lives in Marathwada within a week and all three deaths have been attributed to human atrocities. Nobody should be spared, especially those who killed the leopards in Kinwat. Stern action will set the right precedent and ensure the conservation of wildlife,” he said. On April 12, a young leopard had died after the rescue operation allegedly went wrong in the Paithan taluka of Aurangabad district. The Aurangabad bench of the Bombay high court has already initiated a suo motu PIL in the matter. Yadav Tarte-Patil, of the conservation group Disha, said the judiciary should take up these latest deaths as a connected matter in the suo motu PIL. “Only judicial pressure can ensure proper investigation and punishment in the case of leopard deaths in Kinwat. The judiciary has already shown sensitivity by filing a suo motu PIL and we demand that latest deaths be clubbed with that PIL,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/2-young-leopards-poisoned-in-nanded/articleshow/75226876.cms||Prasad Joshi
April 19, 2020||Udaipur||Rajasthan: Friend’s appeal helps tuberculosis patient from Udaipur to get medicine||JAIPUR: A severe tuberculosis patient of Udaipur was saved from a break in medication after Rajasthan police responded to an appeal made by his friend via social media. The patient, a 25-year-old man, was undergoing treatment at Civil Hospital in Ahmedabad, Gujarat. The lockdown could have caused a fatal break in his treatment had Rajasthan police not come to his rescue. An appeal made by the patient’s friend on Twitter was noticed by Udaipur police, who contacted the patient. ADG Rajasthan B L Soni said, “After the matter was brought to our notice, the case was forwarded to range IG Udaipur. We are delighted that our team helped the patient on time during the lockdown,” Police, after being convinced that it was a genuine case, coordinated with the local health authorities and made the medicine available for the patient at a nearby healthcare centre in Jhadol, Udaipur. The patient had nearly four weeks of medicine when the lockdown was announced; however, the extension of lockdown after three weeks added urgency to his need.  As he had no medical record of his treatment at any local hospital, he was unable to purchase the drugs as most of them are sold on ‘prescription only’. The doctors could not have written a prescription as his records too were in Ahmedabad with his brother.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/udaipur/friends-appeal-helps-tb-patient-to-get-medicine/articleshow/75227738.cms||Ajay Singh
April 19, 2020||Vijayawada||Couple found dead in Andhra Pradesh, suicide pact suspected||VIJAYAWADA: Two people were found dead under suspicious circumstances at a private housing finance company in Guntur on Saturday. The deceased have been identified as Sheik Reshma (23) and Sheik Abdulla (27), both residents of Suddapalli Donka in Guntur town. According to S Ravindra, sub-inspector of police, Arundalpet, Abdulla and Reshma knew each other from childhood and were in a relationship. Police suspect that the couple might have committed suicide after their parents refused their proposal to get married. Abdulla was employed at a private housing finance company while Reshma was a lab technician at a private hospital. On Friday, Reshma left home on the pretext of going to the hospital but did not return home. Her parents enquired with her friends and relatives but could not contact her, and lodged a complaint with the police. Upon finding out about the relationship between Reshma and Abdulla, police made inquiries at Abdulla’s home but found him missing. They then visited Abdulla’s office in Brodipet. The office was supposed to be closed due to the lockdown but police found a shutter open. Upon entering the premises, police found Reshma’s and Abdulla’s bodies on the floor. Police suspect the couple may have consumed a poisonous substance or taken a high dose of sleeping pills.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/couple-found-dead-suicide-pact-suspected/articleshow/75225906.cms||---
April 19, 2020||Jaipur||CBSE asks Rajasthan to solve fees issue, schools say take us on board||JAIPUR: Following a CBSE letter on Friday urging the state governments to settle fee issues to the satisfaction of all stakeholders, the private school association in Rajasthan has asked the state government to consult them before taking any action. The letter was issued to the state governments on April 17. The CBSE doesn’t have the authority to regulate fees of its affiliated schools. The body said the state has 35,000 private schools and barring a few, majority of them doesn’t have a corpus fund to meet any emergency. “At a time the government has clearly said to all private establishments including schools to pay salaries regularly and without any cuts, how can they ask to waive off the fees? It will render schools with no money to pay to it teachers and other staff,” Damodar Goyal, president of Society for Unaided Private Schools in Rajasthan, said. He said government had announced two financial packages for industries, agriculture, banks and labourers but nothing for schools. Education minister Govind Singh Dotasra was not available for comments. TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/cbse-asks-raj-to-solve-fees-issue-schools-say-take-us-on-board/articleshow/75227740.cms||---
April 19, 2020||Chennai||The seniors’ survival diary||CHENNAI: Grandparents Who Have Lived Through Wars, Natural Disasters And Epidemics, Share Valuable Life Lessons To Sail Us Through The Outbreak Col Krishnaswami, 83 and Sulochana Krishnaswami, 80In November 1962, A Krishnaswami, then a 25-year-old captain, and Sulochana, his 22-year-old wife, were living at the Military Headquarters of War (MHOW) near Indore and expecting their first son, when his battalion was mobilised and bundled up to Jaipur to fight in the Indo-China war. For Sulochana — five months pregnant then — this came as an unexpected turn of events, as to begin with, they were on a peace tenure, and war possibilities were supposedly over, the Panchsheel Treaty having been signed. But when the orders came with a six-hour notice, Sulochana packed up the whole house in a couple of bags and got on a truck to Jaipur with her husband and other jawans to see him off, before returning to Delhi with her in-laws — all in a day. "It was a difficult time. No one told us where they were going. But we later learned that India was getting a beating by the Chinese and needed its forces to be replenished," she says. Uncertainty isn’t new to this family. Col Krishnaswami has fought four wars in his lifetime and been decorated with the Vir Chakra. He was away for so long that his second son as a two-year-old toddler couldn’t recognise him after his return from the Indo-Pakistan War of 1971. In the years that followed, they have learned to embrace change with the pride and grace of a family with three generations in the Armed Forces. "If there is something that gave us hope through these years, it is the spirit of camaraderie and community. When I was young, it was shared with the wives of fellow army officers, and in recent years, when we joined the citizens of our neighbourhood to cook for those stranded during the floods and help our domestic staff remain safe, during this pandemic," says Sulochana. "Fighting a war is an experience of a lifetime. I fought four of them, and here I am, at 83. God has been kind to us. Some of our brothers and sisters in the armed forces have faced greater trials. You overcome everything," says Krishnaswami. Ravee Malhotra, businessman, 75As a child of three, Ravee Malhotra was among the second generation of Punjabis who came to India following the Partition in 1947. While he doesn’t remember those early days of arriving in Madras from Lahore, he does remember growing up in a home where his family and community members helped each other set up businesses, find education, create livelihoods. "They say Punjabis always live it up, but I think, as people who have seen wars for 400-500 years, it comes rather naturally for us to live each day to its fullest," says Ravee, a city businessman. Another lesson he has imbibed from his father is the relentless desire to give – whatever you can. "My father was the youngest of nine children and perhaps because he understood the enormity of loss, he learned to give so much more. He never complained about what was gone, but believed in building and rebuilding," he says. This became a lesson Ravee also applied when he lost a whole floor of his factory in Palavakkam to the tsunami. What has also kept him strong in the face of storm is four generations of a family staying together. "Be it the floods, the cyclone, or now, the pandemic, what goes away is irrelevant. But what I see is a constant pushback from nature to restore balance, when humans go overboard. This lockdown too shall come to an end, and normalcy return, but we have to take the effort to preserve nature, without necessarily being forced to do it." Chandra Muthukaruppan, 76mong Chandra’s earliest memories is the story of a granduncle who succumbed to the plague outbreak in Sri Lanka in 1920 that killed more than 1,000 people. Chandra grew up listening to tales of how scanty medical progress and lack of awareness and resources took away loved ones, but she equally drew strength and wisdom from family members who looked out for each other, brought up all the kids in the family as one, and learned to celebrate milestone moments — big or small. During the Indo-China war of 1962, Chandra remembers huddling up and going to sleep in darkness in Cochin, where citizens were asked to switch their lights off post sundown to avoid getting bombed. In the late 1960s, a ship from the private merchant marine her husband was taking care of, sank in the Hooghly River and just four people onboard survived. During the 2004 tsunami, Chandra was stranded inside the Thyagaraja temple in Thiruvarur with her family members after their drive down to Nagapattinam was abruptly cancelled following news of the disaster. "It was also a time when I could not reach my daughter in Port Blair over the phone for hours together, and being away from home and stranded with a bunch of strangers inside a temple, we couldn’t do much but pray with hope," she says. Looking back, Chandra says what reassured her every single time was a silent prayer — for the love and security of oneself and others. And the discipline to do the right thing. "No matter how hard it is, we have all stayed indoors and helped others do the same during this outbreak. Acting with courage and responsibility and in accord with the circumstances, takes you through everything," she says.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/the-seniors-survival-diary/articleshow/75227416.cms||Saranya Chakrapani
April 19, 2020||Nashik||Maulanas in Malegaon appeal to Muslims to observe Ramzan from their home||Nashik: Maulanas in Malegaon have been appealing to the Muslims of the powerloom town to continue following the lockdown orders and not venture out of their homes during the month of Ramzan, which starts from April 24. Every year, the month of Ramzan sees people going to mosques in large number to offer prayers. But this time, the Nashik rural police has appealed to the maulanas of Malegaon to request the people to offer prayers from their homes and avoid gathering of people. This also means that there will be no community feasts or Iftar during the lockdown period. Malegaon, 100 km from Nashik, has a huge chunk of Muslim population. Malegaon has already witnessed four deaths from Covid-19 with 62 positive cases. Since the number of Covid-19 cases is increasing, the rural police have appealed to the maulanas. Arti Singh, the superintendent of police of Nashik Rural, said, “People have started following the lockdown orders seriously in Malegaon given the spread of the disease. At the same time, 1,250 personnel have been deployed all over Malegaon to see that no one ventures out of their house and moves around the city without a valid reason.” The Mumbai Agra highway and other roads that lead to Satana, Manmad etc are strictly being monitored by the police. The police have further deployed drones to keep a check on the movement of people in the small lanes and the by-lanes of the densely populated Malegaon town. Arti Singh said that a large number of people have been booked for violating the lockdown orders. The bandobast will continue until there is no spread of Covid-19.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/maulanas-in-malegaon-appeal-to-muslims-to-observe-ramzan-from-their-home/articleshow/75226873.cms||Santosh Sonawane
April 19, 2020||Aurangabad||No govt instruction to install sanitisation tunnels||Aurangabad: Uday Choudhary, Aurangabad district collector, has said that officially, the administration is not promoting sanitisation tunnels/chambers and nor has the government issued directions for their installation. “However if the effectiveness of the sanitisation process is established and such systems are installed with private/CSR fundings, authorities may exercise prudence and take decisions on a case-to-case basis,” he said The World Health Organisation (WHO) had, on its website, clarified: “Spraying alcohol or chlorine all over your body will not kill viruses that have already entered your body. Spraying such substances can be harmful to clothes or mucous membranes (ie eyes, mouth).” The clarification came against the backdrop of several recent news reports about government departments as well as private organizations making disinfectant tunnels to disinfect personnel involved in Covid-19 management. Under its dedicated section of ‘myth busters’, the WHO replied with a bold “No” to a self-posed question: “Can spraying alcohol or chlorine all over your body kill the new coronavirus?” Authorities closely following WHO recommendations and directives in dealing with the Covid-19 outbreak have already started issuing communications asking health as well as other departments not to install disinfectant tunnels. One of the letters issued by Dr K Kolandaswamy, the director of public health and preventive medicine, Chennai, reiterates the WHO advisory. The letter, a copy of which is with TOI, states: “The spraying of alcohol, chlorine, Lysol on human beings is not only harmful but is also ineffective.” While confirming the issuance of this communication, Kolandaswamy told TOI, “We have instructed that neither disinfectant tunnels be used, nor installed.” The letter, which is being circulated among senior health and police officers, states, “Disinfection tunnels will create a false sense of security and people may be diverted from hand wash to disinfectant tunnels.” WHO myth buster section adds: “Be aware that both alcohol and chlorine can be useful to disinfect surfaces, but they need to be used under appropriate recommendations.” The communication has raised a serious question about the effectiveness of such mobile tunnels and has sent worrying signals among state police as some police units have already resorted to such methods to check the spread of Covid-19 amongst its personnel deployed on the frontline. However, a senior police officer said that in the vans that have been converted into disinfectant tunnels, there are also water taps installed so that the policemen wash their hands before entering the tunnel.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/no-govt-instruction-to-install-sanitisation-tunnels/articleshow/75226882.cms||Mohammed Akhef
April 19, 2020||Rajkot||RCCI opposes govt nod to e-comm firm to begin ops||Rajkot: The Rajkot Chamber of Commerce and Industry (RCCI) has opposed the union government’s decision to allow e-commerce portals to begin operations and sale of non-essential items from April 20. The industry body in a letter to union industries minister Piyush Goyel has stated that the nation-wide wholesalers and retailers were struggling to compete against these global giants. “The retail business is totally held up due to lockdown and permission to start operation for only e-tailers will harm the interest of small traders,” the RCCI stated in the letter. It has asked Goyel to review government’s decision.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/rcci-opposes-govt-nod-to-e-comm-firm-to-begin-ops/articleshow/75226877.cms||---
April 19, 2020||Jaipur||Guv forms team for online edu in varsities, colleges||Governor Kalraj Mishra has formed a 10-member taskforce to explore ways to introduce online education system in the higher education institutes, including universities and colleges, on Saturday. The taskforce members include five vice-chancellors of state varsities and five experts.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/guv-forms-team-for-online-edu-in-varsities-colleges/articleshow/75227748.cms||---
April 19, 2020||Jaipur||Rajasthan: Tests to be done in health centres, ambulances soon||JAIPUR: The state government is planning expand testing facilites for coronavirus in PHCs and ambulances in the coming days. Chief minister Ashok Gehlot on Saturday said the government was aware of the emerging situation after the modified lockdown comes into effect on April 20 and further easing of norms on May 3. He said when people of Rajasthan stranded in other states will return, they will be screened and suspected cases have to be tested, which was a big challenge. Gehlot appealed to Rajasthanis living in other states not to rush back to the state on May 3 and their return should be in a phased manner so that the state government could make arrangements for their smooth return. The chief minister while condemning the attack on coronavirus warriors said it would be dealt with sternly. “There will be no mercy on those who attack health workers and police.” However, he said it was only stray incidents and at most places people were cooperating with them. He ruled out imposing National Security Act as it is not premeditated. He said 199 people were arrested in connection with attacking coronavirus warriors in the state.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/tests-to-be-done-in-health-centres-ambulances-soon/articleshow/75227746.cms||Joychen Joseph
April 19, 2020||Kolkata||Isolated from rest of world, it feels like we are living on an island||My neighbourhood on S B Road in Birati has completely changed as it has virtually been isolated from the rest of the world. Even a month ago, the relentless honking and the movement of heavy vehicles on the main road would make it maddening at times. Now, the roads have turned deserted, with only policemen in uniforms walking up and down, trying to stop people from venturing out. At times, we can hear announcements on microphone, asking people to stay indoors and stay safe. The authorities have put up barricades on S B Road, barley 100 meters from our home. No one from my neighbourhood can go out and nobody from outside can enter. It feels like we are living on an island. This very morning, a team of armed policemen and RAF personnel marched through the neighbourhood. Anyone who was seen loitering on the road was immediately sent back home. It was not so even a week ago. There were restrictions, but people went out to buy vegetables and groceries. That has completely stopped over the past few days. Vegetable vendors come to our gates in the morning and we buy what we need from them. A grocery shop in the locality supplies essential items to home. Life has changed for us as well. I work in a bank at Sector V. I have stopped attending office since the lockdown was announced. We used to attend regular meetings on voice calls initially. Now Zoom meetings have replaced voice calls. Colleagues and friends get to see each other on screens during the video calls. We, of course, talk about work but also discuss the fallout this pandemic and the effect it is having on economy. It drags me down at times. But it is not all gloomy. Cocooned at home, I have picked up a few hobbies I did not have time for earlier. I am reading books again and listening to music. My siblings have also started playing indoor games. I am spending time with my family after a long time. This lockdown has changed our food habit as well. We have more vegetables on the platter now. Suddenly, everyone seems to have become cautious about their health and are even working out a bit. I don’t know when we will finally be out of the grip of Covid-19. A few more months may pass before they find a vaccine for the disease. But I am sure the world around me will not be the same any more. — Mallik works at a bank in Salt Lake’s Sector V||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/isolated-from-rest-of-world-it-feels-like-we-are-living-on-an-island/articleshow/75227419.cms||---
April 19, 2020||Jaipur||5 test positive for Covid-19 by rapid test||Jaipur: Five persons tested positive for Covid-19 on Saturday by rapid test, which was introduced in the state on Friday. Health department claimed that Rajasthan is the first state to use rapid test for diagnosis of Covid-19. The test was used on 1078 persons in 15 different areas of the Walled City. According to the health department, five persons were found infected with the virus with use of rapid test. One each person from Ramganj, Moti Katla, Chaura Rasta, Govind Nagar and Laxminarayanpuri. The health department officials said that the test is not confirmatory test. Those tested positive in rapid test have been isolated and their swab samples will be transported to SMS medical college's microbiology department. TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/5-test-positive-for-covid-19-by-rapid-test/articleshow/75227753.cms||---
April 19, 2020||Jaipur||JMC hires private firm to dispose waste||JAIPUR: To dispose the biomedical waste from quarantine centres, the Jaipur Municipal Corporation (JMC) has awarded the work to a private firm. The company will be provided for Rs 7.79 per bed for scientifically collecting and disposing the waste. An official said, “It would be the firm’s responsibility to provide Personal Protection Equipment (PPE), kit. An official has been designated to monitor the firm’s work.” Reeling under onslaught of coronavirus pandemic, the JMC has issued directions to the firm for proper handling, disposal and transportation of biomedical waste generated from suspected cases under home quarantine. “The waste will be dumped inside the pit at Mathuradaspura landfill site,” said the official. A senior official further said, to prevent any adverse impact on environmental and human health due to the biomedical waste related to coronavirus, the civic body will be taking extra precaution while disposing and collecting. “For proper segregation of waste as per the norms laid down, the workers at centres will be asked to keep separate bins and containers having double-layered bags,” he added. These bins should be labelled and will be carried by the firm’s employees after they wear a PPE kit, the official added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/jmc-hires-pvt-firm-to-dispose-waste/articleshow/75227421.cms||---
April 19, 2020||Bhubaneswar||Bride, groom tie the knot with masks on||Rourkela: The parents of Amrit and Subhasree had grand plans for their wedding. The date, April 17, had been fixed a long time back. But as luck would have it, the lockdown came as a jolt to the two families. Not willing to postpone the marriage, the duo decided to tie the knot on the same day but after maintaining all lockdown guidelines. On Friday, Amrit, son of Snehalata and Madan Mohal Patel, reached the house of Subhasree, daughter of Susama and Arun Patel, resident of Jhargaon under Lepripada block of Sundargarh district. Amrit was accompanied by five guests, each wearing masks. At the entrance stood a person with a sanitiser. During the wedding, both the bride and groom had their faces covered with masks. The marriage was solemnised keeping the social distancing norms in mind. Even the priest kept a distance. “We thought we would organise the wedding in a grand manner. But when the lockdown got extended, we decided to follow the norms and conduct the marriage,” said Madan Mohan, father of Amrit. “We missed our relatives and friends who could not come. But we are happy that the wedding took place,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhubaneswar/bride-groom-tie-the-knot-with-masks-on/articleshow/75225132.cms||Mihir Ray
April 19, 2020||Jaipur||Swine flu strategy to check coronavirus deaths in Rajasthan||JAIPUR: The state health department has adopted a swine flu-like strategy to check deaths due to Covid-19. According to experts, both the diseases have similar initial symptoms and the pattern of death is almost the same. So far, 19 people have lost their lives to coronavirus in the state. During the 2015 swine flu outbreak, the most vulnerable population was elderly, pregnant women and people having medical conditions such as diabetes, hypertension, lung diseases, chronic kidney diseases, chronic diseases related to heart and liver as majority of deaths happened among the vulnerable group, a health department official said. This time around, all the 19 deaths so far happened among the same vulnerable group of population who had pre-existing chronic diseases. “All 19 deaths happened among the people who had diabetes, hypertension or any other pre-existing diseases such as diabetes or kidney-related ailments,” said Dr Ravi Prakash Sharma, additional director (health). He said it was the time when people having pre-existing diseases and those who belong to vulnerable category should take extra precautions and also it was the responsibility of the younger generation to keep elderly at their homes safe by not mixing with them till Covid-19 fades away. However, the health department after taking lessons from the 2015 swine flu outbreak, in which hundreds of people had died, has decided to conduct tests of the vulnerable population to detect Covid-19 early so that early treatment becomes possible to save their lives. However, it is seen that those young people who do not have any co-morbidity, despite being tested positive, do not show any symptoms, which indicates that such population are carriers of the virus. According to SMS Hospital administration officials, at least 70% of the cases were asymptomatic as they do not have fever, cold or cough. This has prompted the health department to lay emphasis on protecting the elderly from being infected.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/swine-flu-strategy-to-check-coronavirus-deaths-in-state/articleshow/75227751.cms||---
April 19, 2020||Nagpur||Maharashtra: Rs 2.5 crore sanctioned for 500-bedded special hospital in Yavatmal||YAVATMAL: District guardian minister Sanjay Rathod has sanctioned Rs 2.5 crore for setting up a 500-bedded special hospital for Covid-19 patients and a well-equipped viral research diagnostic laboratory (VRDL) on the government medical college premises in Yavatmal. Rathod told TOI that the results of swab samples sent from the district to Nagpur are delayed, causing problem for patients and district administration. “To avoid this delay, a well-equipped lab is needed in Yavatmal. District collector MD Singh too emphasized on this. I have given green signal for both the proposals today,” he said. The guardian minister said that the newly-constructed hostels for boys and girls will be utilized for setting up the 500-bedded hospital. Rs one core will granted for the hospital and remaining for setting up the laboratory. “The swab samples will be tested here itself and the report can be generated within 2-4 hours,” he said and added that the hospital will be ready in a fortnight and the lab will be made operational on top priority. The sanction was given from Khanij Kshetra Kalyan Yojana Nidhi (Mines area development welfare scheme fund). This fund is the royalty on minerals found in the district. “Rs 2.5 crore have been sanctioned from the Rs70 crore balance in the fund,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/rs2-5-crore-sanctioned-for-500-bedded-special-hospital-lab-in-ytl/articleshow/75227423.cms||---
April 19, 2020||Nashik||Over 300 people with Covid-19 symptoms ferried by 11 dedicated ambulances||Nashik: The state’s free ambulance service has picked up over 300 people, who showed symptoms of Covid-19 and has to be taken to hospitals for check-up in less than a month. The ambulances, which are operated through a public private partnership, can be availed by dialing 108. Nearly 25% of the ambulances have been dedicated to transporting Covid-19 patients or those with symptoms. The patients are either picked up from screening centres or from communities. The doctors and the drivers on these ambulances have been given complete training about taking precautionary measures and the method of sanitizing the ambulance after every patient is dropped to the hospital. Ashwin Raghamvar, district manager of the Bharat Vikas Group (BVG) that operates the Dial 108 ambulances, said, “Soon after the outbreak, it was decided to dedicate 25% of the fleet for ferrying patients with Covid-19 or those with symptoms.” He said that of their fleet of 46 ambulances, 11 have been put into dedicated service of the Covid-19 cases. “Since the last week of March, we have ferried 314 people from screening centres or communities through these ambulances,” Raghamwar added. The drivers, who are called as pilots, and doctors in the ambulances have been trained of sanitizing the ambulance properly after ferrying every patient. They have also been provided with personal protection equipment kits. The other 35 ambulances continue to be stationed in different parts of the district to rush regular patients to hospitals. The doctors said that there was no drop in the other patients, who were rushed to the hospitals, though the number of road accidents has gone down. The 35 ambulances have been deployed all over the district to ensure that no person in medical emergency has to face problem due to the unavailability of ambulances.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/over-300-people-with-covid-19-symptoms-ferried-by-11-dedicated-ambulances/articleshow/75226891.cms||Santosh Sonawane
April 19, 2020||Rajkot||Serial killer arrested for woman’s murder in Lodhika||Rajkot: In a major breakthrough in the murder case of a 35-year-old woman, Rajkot rural local crime branch (LCB) officials arrested the accused on Saturday. Police said the accused, identified as Anil Vala, had allegedly strangled Kiran Parmar (35) after she resisted his rape attempt on April 13 on the outskirts of Khambha village of Lodhika taluka in Rajkot district. Vala was traced and arrested on the basis of the number plate of the motorcycle on which he had given Kiran a lift.“In one of the CCTV footages, Kiran was seen riding pillion on a bike being driven by Vala. We traced the owner of the bike on the basis of its registration number. He was identified as Ronak Parmar. Ronak said he had lent the bike to Rohit Deradia. When we checked with Deradia, he said he had given the bike to Vala,” said M N Rana, inspector with Rajkot rural LCB. Rana said, “When we checked the background of Vala, we found that he had a criminal record of being involved in two cases of rape and murder and attempt to murder. After we rounded him up, he confessed during the interrogation that he had given a lift to Kiran and had committed the crime.” Vala told the cops that both he and Kiran had taken a halt at a farm on the outskirts of Khambha village to sleep, where Vala asked her to have sex with him. When Kiran refused, an altercation broke out between them, following which Vala strangled her, using her dupatta. Police have recovered gold earrings, a cellphone and Rs 2,700 that Vala had allegedly looted from Kiran.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/serial-killer-arrested-for-womans-murder-in-lodhika/articleshow/75226895.cms||---
April 19, 2020||Nashik||Covid-19 laboratory to come up in Adgaon soon||Nashik: A Covid-19 testing laboratory is being set up at Dr Vasantra Pawar Medical College in Adgaon and is expected to start functioning from Monday if the sample testing under the observation of experts from All India Institute of Medical Sciences, Nagpur, on Sunday is successful. The rise in numbers of Covid-19 positive cases in Nashik district has called for the setting up of the laboratory in the district. Dhule and Jalgaon districts have already set up similar laboratories. The throat swab samples from Malegaon and Satana were sent to the Government Medical College and Hospital (GMCH) Dhule. The burden on the Dhule lab was increasingly high as the samples from Dhule aas well as Nandurbar were also sent to the GMCH for testing. Samples from other 13 talukas of Nashik district are being sent to the Armed Forces Medical College (AFMC) in Pune for testing which is time-consuming. However, with the setting up of the new laboratory, the authorities are expecting the samples to be tested faster and in more numbers. “We were in need of a laboratory considering the number of cases on the rise to expedite the Covid-19 testing and starting of appropriate treatment to the patients. We will see the laboratory functional soon,” district guardian minister Chhagan Bhujbal said. Collector of Nashik Suraj Madhare said that necessary permissions for setting up of the laboratory were being obtained. “The process of obtaining the necessary permissions is under way. The physical infrastructure is in place,” the officer said. Sources from the district administration said that a larger part of the laboratory equipment was being provided by city-based Datar Genetic while other things were being sourced from the market.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/covid-19-laboratory-to-come-up-in-adgaon-soon/articleshow/75226906.cms||Abhilash Botekar
April 19, 2020||Goa||Exit lathis, enter mics: Now, cops use music to keep people indoors in Goa||PANAJI: Nobody really loves the sight of a policeman out on the streets during a lockdown. Videos of police thrashing violators have gone viral and the men in khaki have been criticised for their high-handedness. In Goa now, videos of police ‘action’ have been few and far between. Instead, viral videos have all been of police using their singing skills and not the lathi to keep people indoors. It all started with DySP Sammy Tavares releasing an audio song on coronavirus and then police sub-inspector Diego Gracias picked up the mike to entertain the public in Vasco. The roadshows got wide acclaim and soon enough Goa police swung into action. “Keeping in view the ethos of art, culture and music in the state, Goa police decided to rope in artistically inclined officers to write, compose and sing songs indicative of staying indoors due to Covid-19. This really caught everyone’s imagination,” said IGPJaspal Singh. Goa police was heavily criticised for their handling of the lockdown during the early days. When the lockdown was announced by Prime Minister Narendra Modi on March 24, Goa police started punishing people, if they were found on the road without any reason. Essentials were in short supply, so people were forced to move out of their homes. But instead of sympathy, everyone got a lathi. The situation became worse when the state government deployed Central Industrial Security Force (CISF) to make sure that nobody ventures out of their houses. Soon enough, social activists approached the Goa Human Right Commission (GHRC) to point out how paramilitary forces punished people on the streets. It was then that the Goa police changed its strategy. The lathis were kept inside, and instead microphones were out. Police personnel with singing abilities were handpicked to sing songs which made everyone listen with attention. “Not that we used force earlier, except an isolated instance of an officer using mild force on an errant youth. The same was resented by civil society as Goa is peace loving. Therefore, we thought of using persuasive methods to convey the message of social distancing and benefits of staying indoors,” said Singh. From deputy superintendents of police (DySPs) to police inspectors and sub inspectors all drive to a popular location in cities and villages and sing educative songs on coronavirus. Most of the songs are in Konkani and Hindi, while Kannada was also used to convince migrant population from Karnataka staying here. DySPs Uttam Raut Desai and Sammy Tavares, PIs Nilesh Rane and PI Sudesh Naik, PSI Diego Gracias, PCs Tukaram Naik and Rama Gawas and LPC Bhakti Devidas were some of the more popular names whose videos have since gone viral. Goa police even launched a video with a small skit written by DySP Edwin Colaco, requesting the public to stay at home to keep themselves, and their families, safe. “The initiative shows the humane side of Goa police. It’s easy to be cynical during these difficult days but this novel approach will help develop trust and build a rapport. This will benefit everyone, not just now, but even in the long run,” said Vishwanath Kamat Malyekar, a resident of Santa Cruz.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/exit-lathis-enter-mics-now-cops-use-music-to-keep-people-indoors/articleshow/75227755.cms||Murari Shetye
April 19, 2020||Delhi||Suicide by tanker owner: AAP MLA Prakash Jarwal, associate booked||NEW DELHI: Delhi Police has filed an FIR against AAP MLA Prakash Jarwal and his associate, Kapil Nagar, after an Ayurvedic doctor who used to run a water tanker business in south Delhi's Devli area committed suicide by hanging himself at his residence on Saturday morning. His family members claimed that he was depressed allegedly after being harassed by Jarwal and Nagar who had not only stopped his business but threatened and extorted money from him to allow him to resume tanker services in the area. In a statement, Jarwal denied the allegation, claiming that this was an attempt to trap him and that he would be proved innocent. DCP (south) Atul Thakur said that it was around 6am that the family members of Dr Rajender Singh (52) informed the police that they had found him hanging from the edge of the terrace with a nylon rope at their Durga Vihar residence. A tenant had noticed this around 5.30am and informed the family. The PCR was informed and the cops, along with the family members, managed to bring down the body. It was sent for an autopsy to AIIMS. Singh’s son, Hemant, told the cops his father was running an Ayurvedic clinic near their house and also supplying water for Delhi Jal Board since 2007. “We have registered a case under sections related to abetment to suicide, extortion and threat to life at the Neb Sarai police station against Prakash Jarwal and the others named in the complaint by Hemant,” said Thakur. The family has alleged that Jarwal, Nagar and some of their associates have been demanding money from Singh to allow him to operate his tanker. They have handed over a phone recording, allegedly of Jarwal, in which he is heard threatening Singh. According to the police, Hemant later handed over a diary of Singh in which he has reportedly written that the MLA and his men have been harassing him for the past five years. He is said to have claimed that he had already paid the MLA’s men Rs 50 lakhs to keep his tanker enlisted with the DJB but they were demanding more money. “They have been saying that I am a BJP supporter though I have supported AAP all along. I had given them all I had and tried to explain that I am not a money minting machine that I will keep on paying them. Even in December, I had paid Rs 60,000,” he wrote in the diary, according to the police. Singh alleged that Nagar and Jarwal had assured him that his tanker would not be delisted by DJB but they didn’t keep their word. “I pray that my family is protected after I am gone,” he wrote. Singh also wrote in the diary that Jarwal and Nagar had directed the DJB office in GK-II to stop his payments for the water tanker he had supplied. “I had got to know about this from a source in the DJB office. I know that I cannot do anything to such powerful people as long as I am alive, so it is better for me to die,” he wrote. In a statement issued to the media, Jarwal claimed that he was innocent. He said he hadn’t met Singh in the past eight to ten months. The MLA alleged that in 2017, Singh had featured in a TV sting on the tanker mafia and his tankers had been blacklisted. “I have full faith in the judiciary and I am ready to face any investigation. There have been attempts to trap me in the past and similar attempts are being made now. Just like I have proved myself innocent in the past, I will do so now too. I am ready to cooperate with the police in any kind of investigation,” he said. Speaking to the media earlier, Jarwal had alleged that Singh had taken loans from a number of people, including Kapil, claiming that he would use it to pay off his other loans. “His payments were not stopped by DJB. It was due to the lockdown that no payments were made. We had assured we would meet him after the lockdown and resolve the issues. I admit that while speaking on phone I had said certain things in the heat of the moment and I had apologised to the doctor,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/suicide-by-tanker-ownermla-associate-booked/articleshow/75227759.cms||---
April 19, 2020||Cuttack||Isolation train chugs into Cuttack station||CUTTACK: The ECoR on Saturday stationed a 144-bed isolation train at Cuttack station. The coaches of the train are equipped with isolation wards comprising beds and nurses’ cabin. It can used to house anyone in need of isolation. The isolation coaches have been made at Mancheswar railway workshop in Bhubaneswar. They are equipped with sanitized interiors for the safety of the individuals, said an ECoR official. Cuttack station manager, Sourav Mukherjee, said the train had 18 coaches. “As per the guidelines of the government, one coach can accommodate a maximum of eight patients. Accordingly, the train can accommodate 144 patients,” he said. Wash basin, hand wash and towels have been placed in the coaches. Separate toilets have been provided in each coach, Mukherjee said. Railway Protection Force (RPF) personnel would secure the train.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/cuttack/isolation-train-chugs-into-cuttack-station/articleshow/75225135.cms||---
April 19, 2020||Thiruvananthapuram||Kerala will have to add Mahe native’s death to its own list||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM: Kerala will have to add one more Covid-19 death to its account as Centre has resolved the confusion over deaths of people who are not a resident of the state. The Centre’s guideline is that deaths should be accounted where it occurs, irrespective of the nativity of the person. Accordingly, the death of Mahe native, which happened on April 11, will have to be accounted in Kerala’s list. Union health ministry confirmed that not even a single positive case was reported from Puducherry. This was made clear by ministry of health’s joint secretary Lav Agarwal in New Delhi. “No case was reported over the past 28 days in Mahe, Puducherry,” he said. The state had refused to account the death of 71-year-old P Mehroof who died at Pariyaram medical college in Kannur on April 11. The official version of the state health department was that since he belonged to Mahe, his death cannot be accounted in Kerala.But, the government was not ready to account the death of a person from Palakkad, who was tested positive for Covid-19 and died in a Coimbatore hospital while undergoing treatment on April 10.Following TOI report on April 16 about the ambiguity prevailing in accounting the death of persons who are travelling for treatment from one state to another, the special task force, constituted by the state government, took up the matter at its April 16 meeting. At the meeting, a decision was taken to write to the Centre to provide some clarity on how such deaths should be reported. "The general consensus was that the death should be accounted where it occurred irrespective of his or her nativity as death certificate is issued by the hospital concerned," said a task force member. In this way, Mahe person’s death should be accounted in Kerala and Palakkad person’s death that happened in Coimbatore should be shown in Tamil Nadu list. But, we need a formal communication from the government of India on this, he added. "We have written to the Centre and are awaiting reply," said principal secretary (health) Rajan N Khobragade.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/thiruvananthapuram/state-will-have-to-add-mahe-natives-death-to-its-own-list/articleshow/75225995.cms||Rajiv G
April 19, 2020||Jaipur||Coordinator to monitor 4 health verticals||Jaipur: To streamline the functioning of four health verticals - screening, sampling and contact tracing, logistics and quarantine facilities - in Jaipur city, the administration has appointed a coordinator for better coordination with the all the four divisions of the health department. Dr A N Mathur, additional director (hospital administration), has been appointed as the coordinator for all the four verticals. The district administration had also issued an order to appoint officials for all the four verticals by dividing the roles among the existing staff at the CMHO. Earlier, Jaipur city nodal officer for prevention COVID-19 Ajitabh Sharma had requested chief secretary D B Gupta to restructure the health facilities at the curfew-affected areas including Ramganj and Jaipur city by appointing separate officials to head the four verticals. Sharma had earlier said, “Four major medical and health-related works are going on at the curfew-affected areas including Ramganj and Jaipur city. The four verticals are - screening, sampling and contact tracing, logistics (arranging medical equipment, inventories and vehicles) and quarantine facilities. In order to do these things properly, there is a need for restructuring. I suggested that four different officials should be given charge of these verticals." An official posted in Ramganj said the city has now been divided into more 20 police stations and an area magistrated has been appointed in these zones. So far, over 450 cases have been reported postive in Ramganj area.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/coordinator-to-monitor-4-health-verticals/articleshow/75227426.cms||---
April 19, 2020||Jaipur||Divyang Mahasangh seeks aid from Centre for those with 40% disability||Jaipur: Hemant Goyal, vice-president of Divyang Adhikar Mahasangh, wrote to Prime Minister Narendra Modi and Union minister for social justice and empowerment Thawar Chand Gehlot requesting them to provide Rs 1,000 pension for three months, as announced by the Centre in view of Covid-19 crisis, to even those who are 40% physically challenged. According to a social justice and empowerment department official in the state, around 28,000 specially abled people in Rajasthan have received the amount when there are 3.5 lakh such people in the state. The official also said the Centre is giving the money to only those who fall in the national BPL list. They also should be above 18 years of age and must have 80% disability. Goyal also mailed the letter to the chief commissioner, disability, of the central government and secretary, social justice and empowerment department, Government of India. “As per sub-section 3C of Section 24 of the Divyang Rights Act, 2014, even those persons with 40% disabilities are eligible for government relief or assistance at the time of natural or man-made disasters. I have also appealed to MP Diya Kumari and requested her to write a letter to the Prime Minister in this regard,” Goyal said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/divyang-mahasangh-seeks-aid-from-centre-for-those-with-40-disability/articleshow/75227432.cms||---
April 19, 2020||Rajkot||101 hide in truck to return to native in Alwar, held||Palanpur: The Amirgadh police in Banaskantha on Saturday detained 101 people including 41 women and 21 children, who were trying to reach Alwar in Rajasthan, while hiding in a multi-axle truck.Police sub-inspector D J Desai said that all have been booked under the relevant sections of the Epidemic Act. According to police, most of the detainees are labourers and their family members from Morbi. They were hiding in a truck and were being transported to Alwar. They were caught during checking at Amirgadh check-post. The driver and cleaner of the truck, however, managed to escape. Police said that the labourers had come from Alwar to work in cotton farms. They were working in different villages of Maliya Miyana taluka of Morbi. They were stranded in Morbi because of the lockdown as they had not work. All have been shifted to shelter home in Ambaji town of Banaskantha.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/101-hide-in-truck-to-return-to-native-in-alwar-held/articleshow/75226919.cms||---
April 19, 2020||Chennai||Railways deducts booking fee, passengers cry foul||CHENNAI: Railways have started to issue refunds for online tickets for travel during shutdown period but is deducting booking fee though IRCTC had declared that people will get full refund. This has created confusion among passengers who have taken to social media to point out the discrepancy in the announcement and what is being implemented. Passengers complain that railways are deducting Rs15 to Rs30 plus GST for cancellation of tickets. Money is being refunded after deducting Rs 15 for sleeper class tickets and Rs 30 for air-conditioned class tickets. A passenger tweeted: “It’s a mistake on the part of Railway to start IRCTC booking. So why should customers bear this loss. Please refund entire amount as soon as possible.” A few have also tweeted hinting that railways will be making money by holding back the booking fee. Railways will make Rs 7crore by deducting Rs 18 (inclusive of taxes) for the 39 lakh cancelled tickets, said a passenger in a social media post. Indian Railways had announced that it will be cancelling around 39 lakh tickets for journeys between April 15 and May 3. However, people have also criticised railways for keeping reservations open after April 15 when there was an uncertainty over extension of the lockdown period. T Sadagopan, a frequent traveller and consumer activist, said, “This shows that there is no transparency. They cannot say there will be full refund and then deduct money. Ideally railways should have given a breakup of the charges that will be refunded when they said full refund will be issued.” IRCTC also delayed issuing full refunds and deducted reservation charges of Rs120 for sleeper class and Rs180 for air-conditioned class for tickets for tickets that were cancelled when the lockdown was announced from March 26 to April 14. They started to refund the money only after there was a public outcry. A railway official said refunds were being issued based on the policy adopted by the ministry.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/rlys-deducts-booking-fee-passengers-cry-foul/articleshow/75227433.cms||---
April 19, 2020||Bhubaneswar||Covid-19 lab to start at Vimsar today||Sambalpur: The Covid-19 test laboratory at Veer Surendra Sai Institute of Medical Sciences and Research (VIMSAR), Burla, will become functional from Sunday with the capacity to test 90 samples per day in two shifts, said health and family welfare minister Naba Kishore Das, who visited the hospital to review progress of laboratory work here on Saturday. Das said with the functioning of the laboratory here at VIMSAR, the Recombinant Technology Polymerase Chain Reaction (rt PCR) test will be possible. “We will get the test report of the suspected Covid-19 patients here after the laboratory becomes operational,” he added. He said if required two additional rt PCR machines would be installed to scale up testing capacity, he said. Currently, Vimsar is sending throat swab samples of the suspected Covid-19 patients to the Regional Medical Research Center (RMRC), Bhubaneswar, for the test. Das also inquired how the isolation ward of the VIMSAR is functioning and instructed the hospital authorities to provide all kind of facilities to the doctors and the para-medical staffs involved in Covid duty. On the other hand, the Junior Doctors Association (JDA) of VIMSAR submitted a memorandum to the health minister demanding good facilities for the medical and paramedical staffs, who are under quarantine to provide service to the suspected Covid-19 patients at VIMSAR.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhubaneswar/covid-19-lab-to-start-at-vimsar-today/articleshow/75225141.cms||Subrat Mohanty
April 19, 2020||Kolkata||West Bengal: Shutdown in place, fever survey starts||KOLKATA/EGRA: With the Union health ministry declaring four Bengal districts, including North 24 Parganas, to be in the “Red Zone”, at least 21 localities of eight municipalities on the northern fringes of the city were sealed off. No one from those places was seen stepping out, even to buy essentials, on Saturday. Barricades have been put up in areas, like Dum Dum’s Nagerbazar, Satgachhi and Birati, Shibachal, Nimta and Golbagan under North Dum Dum Municipality, Neogipara, Dombagan, Ramakrishnana Puram apartment under Baranagar Municipalty and Belgharia and Rathlata under Kamarhati Municipality. The move came after nearly 17 Covid-19 cases were reported from these localities.  At least seven places in Madhyagram Municipality, barely 3km from Kolkata airport, like Bankimpally, Basunagar, Bijaynagar and Michaelnagar, where a councillor and his driver and a nursing superintendent tested positive for Covid-19, have been sealed off, along with places in Bhatpara and Habra. “These places are under strict monitoring by cops who are constantly patrolling. Civic bodies are carrying out sanitization,” said a senior district official. North 24 Parganas district health officials and Madhyamgram municipal medical staffers, accompanied by a police team, have also been conducting door-to-door health check-ups to seek whether there was anyone with Covid-19 symptoms. “Nearly 125 homes have been covered. Apart from Madhyamgram, our medical teams have been surveying ‘high-risk’ zones of others municipalities, like South and North Dum Dum and Baranagar. We have found a few with mild fever. Their swab samples will be collected and sent to NICED,” a senior district health official said. Complete lockdown was observed in four Haldia areas in East Midnapore, another “sensitive” district from where 21 positive cases were reported. No one was seen stepping out in Durga Chowk’s B Block and Sukantanagar in Haldia Municipality. Barricades ensured no one entered or exited the areas. Patharberia and Rajnagar village on the fringes of municipality were also cordoned off.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/shutdown-in-place-fever-survey-starts/articleshow/75227436.cms||Sanjib Chakraborty
April 19, 2020||Business||National security in focus as India amends FDI rules||NEW DELHI: India’s decision on Saturday to amend FDI rules requiring government approval for entities from countries that share a land border — read more specifically as China — is not only an attempt to protect vulnerable assets from predatory acquisitions but a recognition that in the wake of the Covid-19 crisis India needs to draw a careful line between economic openness and national security. Alarm bells regarding Chinese investments and control have been ringing from some time, but it took a pandemic for the government to address what is seen as a strategic, and possibly a political, vulnerability. The concern came to a head with the Public Bank of China’s acquisition of 1% of HDFC – as foreign portfolio investment – on behalf of the country’s sovereign wealth fund SAFE. India is not alone as Australia, Germany, France, Spain and even UK have acted to screen investments. A report by Gateway House, a think tank, raised red flags recently in a report that said Indian tech, retail and fintech start-ups have got close to $ 4 billion from Chinese investors since 2015. More on Covid-19Coronavirus pandemic: Complete Coverage21-day lockdown: What will stay open and what won'tHow to quarantine yourself at homeTrust the newspaper for your daily verified newsThe concern, however, is even greater with regard to national security as reports have pointed to threat of data being siphoned off, opaque tech and blurry financial holdings. There were long deliberations over allowing Chinese giant Huawei to take part in India’s 5G trials. The possibility of security vulnerabilities has moved up the graph as far as the government is concerned and this led to a barrier against Chinese FDI. The Gateway report warns, “Unable to persuade India to sign on to its Belt and Road Initiative, China has entered the Indian market through venture investments in start-ups and penetrated the online ecosystem with its popular smartphones and their applications.” In March, reports said the Industrial and Commercial Bank of China and China Investment Corporation were scouting for investment opportunities in the financial services sector in India on behalf of Chinese investment funds. Earlier this week, government asked for actual identities of beneficial owners of funds, particularly from China. Sources involved in the decision told TOI that the government believes the Indian economy could stay vulnerable for a while as it recovers from the double whammy of a slowdown and the pandemic. The crisis has brought home to India and other countries that national security goes beyond defence, and that India’s economic and commercial policies will now be seen through a national security filter. In fact, the pandemic has drawn attention to India’s worrying dependence on China as the government tries to source equipment and components. India’s pharma sector is in hock to active pharma ingredients from China. Even HCQ, of which India is the world’s largest manufacturer, needs KSM (key starter materials) to be imported from China. It was only after India received a huge amount of this that production actually took off, allowing India to practise its medical diplomacy. Around the world, similar fears are prompting governments to tighten investment norms. Australian treasurer Josh Frydenberg said the government would crack down on Chinese state-owned businesses going after Aussie assets and declared there would be a zero dollar approval threshold for all proposed foreign investments of Australian businesses. In early April, the British government prevented a Chinese fund from taking over a key chip manufacturer. Reports have suggested that China is eyeing sectors, start-ups and small niche tech companies that will synergize with its bid to become a full-spectrum tech giant by 2025, a program called Made in China 2025.  India’s massive retail market along with fintech, specialty chemicals, electric mobility and pharmaceuticals are believed to be of particular interest to Chinese investors.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/national-security-in-focus-as-india-amends-fdi-rules/articleshow/75228015.cms||Indrani Bagchi
April 19, 2020||Nashik||More than 3k workers stranded in other talukas, districts||Nashik: District administration estimates that there are more than 3,000 workers from Nashik, who are stranded across the state. “An estimated 3,000 workers from Nashik are stranded across the state, where they had gone in search of work or were working in cane fields,” said a senior official from district administration. “The tahsildars and block development officers have contacted their counterparts, where these workers are staying,” said sources from the district administration said. Nandgaon taluka, which has one of the highest numbers of workers in the sugar cane fields in Marathwada and Western Maharashtra, said people from 21 settlements leave after Diwali every year and return home in May. “Of the 15,000 people, about 2,000 people are still in Pune and the Solapur,” block development officer Ganesh Chaudhari said. Sources in the tehsil office said a group of 98 people are in Baitul district of the Madhya Pradesh. Approximately 1,000 workers from Kalwan and Peth talukas are in neighbouring talukas of the district, or in Gujarat. Workers from Surgana either work in parts of Nashik district or go to Gujarat. “Most of them work in grape farms and return home by Holi. This year, most of them came here for Holi and are at home. Those who are still in other talukas, the local farmers and administration are taking care of them,” an officer from district administration said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/more-than-3k-workers-stranded-in-other-talukas-districts/articleshow/75226932.cms||Abhilash Botekar
April 19, 2020||Bhubaneswar||7 migrants rescued after 6 days of trek||Berhampur: Seven migrant labouers, four from West Bengal and three from Chhatrapur in Ganjam district, who were walking along the NH-16, were rescued by police at Lanjipalli bypass here on Saturday. Police said the labourers were on their way from Visakhapatnam in Andhra Pradesh and were going to their native places in different areas of West Bengal and Chhatrapur in Ganjam. The seven, all construction workers, walked for last six days to reach here, said police. After rescuing them, police on duty immediately arranged lunch for them. “We provided them food and asked them to take shelter,” said sub-divisional police officer, Berhampur Town, B P Pati. Sub-collector (Berhampur) Shinde Dattatraya Bhausaheb said they would be housed in quarantine after health screening. He said almost daily many labourers are rescued by the district administration during the lockdown period. Most of them were from southern Indian states like Tami Nadu and were going towards West Bengal, Bihar and Jharkhand. The sub-collector said around 300 people have been housed in quarantine in different places in and around Berhampur. They are being provided free food and treatment.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhubaneswar/7-migrants-rescued-after-6-days-of-trek/articleshow/75225156.cms||Hrusikesh Mohanty
April 19, 2020||Bhopal||TJ members, foreign returnees caused MP Covid-19 spike: CM Shivraj Singh Chouhan||CM Shivraj Singh Chouhan attributes the rising number of Covid-19 cases in the state to Tablighi Jamaat (TJ) members who returned from Delhi and also those who came back from foreign visits, and hid their travel history. In an interview to TOI’s Mohua Chatterjee, he says a 10-member committee is looking into all aspects of the state's fight against coronavirus. Excerpts:Do you feel taking over as CM in the time of corona was a challenge as the regime change left you with no system in place to deal with the pandemic?From the moment I was sworn in, my focus has been preventing the spread of Covid-19. Initially there were few cases and after that a rapid increase in the number of cases around major cities like Indore and Bhopal. TJ members who returned from Delhi are also a reason for this sudden rise and also people who came back to the state from foreign visits and hid themselves. But now, we are trying to strengthen our medical infrastructure. More than 400 containment areas have been marked in the 26 districts. Contact tracing is being done in all such areas. Screening and quarantining of more than 55,000 people who came from abroad have been undertaken. How are you running a big state without a Cabinet to oversee departments like health, agriculture, labour?Yes, it is right that the Cabinet plays a crucial role. Working in a team helps during challenging times. Safety of public representatives is also important and every representative is a part of this fight. I am continuously coordinating with MLAs and MPs and with their consultation and suggestions I am taking many decisions for the state. We have just formed a committee of 10 members to look after different aspects of this fight against Covid-19. How did Indore turn into a corona hub?Indore is our prime commercial centre, a densely populated city. It is a place where a large number of people travel abroad for business purposes. Initially such people hid their travel histories, came in contact with others and spread the infection. I am regularly reviewing the situation through video conferencing. We are implementing an “identify, isolate, test and treat” (IITT) strategy. The testing rate in Indore is much higher than the rest of the state. 5,120 samples have been taken in Indore, out of which 1,000 samples have been sent to Delhi for testing. 489 teams are engaged in this work. So far, 3.9 lakh persons have been surveyed in the affected areas. A total of 12 to 13 lakh persons have been surveyed in the entire city. In the next seven days, 20 to 21 lakh persons will be surveyed. There are also clear instructions for fair price ration to be sent out to all districts in sufficient quantity and there should be no delay in distribution. If necessary the ration can be distributed from house-to-house. In order to ensure that vegetables and fruits of farmers are not spoiled, outside the city decentralized purchase of their fruits and vegetables can be arranged while adhering to social distancing norms. Following Centre’s instructions, a containment plan is ready. In Plan A, the infected and suspects are monitored. In Plan B tests, blood samples, etc. are taken. Under rapid action, three types of teams are working. One team focuses on public awareness and consultation. Another goes home to take samples, and a third provides support to people on a psychological level. For a third time, quarantined patients have fled from hospital in Indore.We are continuously trying to counsel such people, telling them not to be scared or misinformed. Anyone who goes against the law should be brought to book. A system has been created to monitor home quarantine where if any person who is in quarantine leaves his house, an alert will reach the control room. The boundaries and affected areas of Indore district have been completely sealed and a three-tier blockade has been put in place. Persons who fled will be found soon. With almost all top state health department officials testing positive or quarantined, how are you dealing with the situation?These personnel were the first ones on the frontiers of this battle and so unfortunately they came in contact with the virus. For such officials due care is being taken to safeguard their lives. They are being quarantined for now. It is also a fact that this war cannot cease and keeping this in mind, a second line of officials has been prepared for the task.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/tj-members-fgn-returnees-caused-mp-covid-spike-cm/articleshow/75227768.cms||Mohua Chatterjee
April 19, 2020||Hubballi||Health department keeps close watch on paracetamol buyers||Hubballi: In order to identify suspected Covid-19 patients and to isolate them before they spread the virus, the district administration has directed all chemists to jot down names, contact numbers and addresses of those who buy paracetamol. The aim is to spot patients with fever which is a symptom of Covid-19 and those who buy paracetamol may think they may have a common flu, but it could be Covid-19. Early detection can curb the spread of the virus, said officials of the health and family welfare department. Chemists submit details of buyers to the department and its staff check with the ill persons why they purchased the drug and if a preliminary inquiry is not satisfactory, a surveillance team is sent. District health officer Dr Yashwant A Madinkar said sale of paracetamol over the counter has been banned and it’s sold only against a doctor’s prescription. It means these patients have to visit fever clinics to confirm they don’t have Covid-19. Doctors have been asked to divert patients with Severe Acute Respiratory Illness and influenza-like infections to nearby fever clinics or the Covid-19 hospital, he said. Dr Shivanand Hiremath, a psychiatrist, said he bought paracetamol tablets for his mother and any family member who gets a headache. He shared personal details with the chemist and he received a call from health department officials who asked about the purchase. They were convinced after listening to the reason, he said. Ramesh Tindayal, a resident of Padmaraj Nagar, said he also received a call from the department. He welcomed the administration’s move. A few chemists said they were not selling paracetamol tablets but only painkillers. Over 300 calls per day Sources in the health and family welfare department said they’re getting a list every day of over 300 new buyers of paracetamol. “Five staff members have been deployed for this and they call buyers and check why they bought it,” said an officer. In Vijayapura, which saw a sudden surge in Covid-19 cases, the administration resorted to the same exercise.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hubballi/health-department-keeps-close-watch-on-paracetamol-buyers/articleshow/75226440.cms||Kishan Singh Bhorde
April 19, 2020||Bhubaneswar||CM Naveen Patnaik’s Rs 100 crore job scheme for urban poor||BBHUBANESWAR: To help the urban poor hit by job loss due to the coronavirus-enforced lockdown, chief minister Naveen Patnaik on Saturday announced a Rs 100 crore Urban Wage Employment Initiative (UWEI) that aims to provide immediate wages to them by implementing labour intensive projects. The UWEI assumes significance as the state housing and urban development department has estimated that around one-third of the people living in urban areas of the state (approximately two million) could face severe consequences with reduced working hours, decrease in wages and abrupt layoffs. “The UWEI will benefit around 4.5 lakh urban poor working in the informal sectors in 114 urban local bodies (ULBs) in the state,” said an official statement issued by the chief minister’s office. The programme will commence within a week and will continue till the end of September. Payment will be transferred directly to the beneficiary’s bank account every week. The minimum wage for an unskilled labourer under the programme will be around Rs 286 per day, said a government source. Various labour-intensive works like pre-monsoon de-silting and maintenance of drains ahead of monsoon, construction of rainwater harvesting structures, development of new water bodies, public parks, playgrounds, plantations, clearance of construction waste, construction of public urinals at high footfall zones and construction of community centres will be taken up under the employment generation programme. Activities like wall painting and mural painting will also be undertaken as part of the initiative. “Though we have the Mahatma Gandhi National Rural Employment Guarantee Scheme (MGNREGS) programme for the rural poor, there is no employment generation initiative for the urban poor in our country. To provide immediate employment opportunity to the urban poor, our CM has announced a programme which is a first-of-its-kind initiative in the country. Women SHGs will be involved in successful implementation of the programme,” said Pratap Jena, the state housing and urban development minister. The minister said the UWEI is a fully state-sponsored scheme with money to be utilised from UNNATI and Jaga schemes. The state housing and urban development department has issued operational guidelines according to which the civic bodies will select projects to be taken up under the programme. “The ULBs will ensure strict adherence of social distancing and all guidelines issued by the state government for Covid-19 management while implementation various works under the initiative,” said a senior government officer.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhubaneswar/naveens-rs-100-crore-job-scheme-for-urban-poor/articleshow/75225164.cms||---
April 19, 2020||Hyderabad||CM K Chandrasekhar Rao pushes for more gunny bag units in Telangana||HYDERABAD: Telangana chief minister K Chandrasekhar Rao wants the state to become self-reliant in manufacturing of gunny bags. Presently, it depends upon supplies from gunny bag manufacturing units in West Bengal to store its paddy. Though KCR said he has directed chief secretary Somesh Kumar and Industries department officials to offer incentives, suitable land and give fast-track clearances to set up gunny bag manufacturing units in the state, officials said it will take time for the entrepreneurs to set up gunny bags manufacturing units here. The immediate challenge before the state government is to get 20 crore gunny bags to store 1.05 crore metric tonnes of paddy from rabi crop. The harvesting of the crop has already commenced and is expected to continue till mid-May. As the gunny bags manufacturing units in West Bengal are closed due to country-wide lockdown, the state government has directed rice millers and fair price shop dealers to send back the existing gunny bags supplied to them with paddy produced during kharif crop. This way the government is expecting to pool in 10 crore gunny bags which will be sufficient till month-end. “The chief minister has already taken up the gunny bags matter with the prime minister as it is not only Telangana but other states too which depend on supplies from West Bengal. We are also looking at other possible safe storage of paddy,” Civil Supplies Corporation chairman Mareddy Srinivas Reddy said. The state government has also agreed to pay Rs 2 more per gunny bag to FP dealers returning it to the Civil Supplies Corporation. Instead of Rs 18 per bag, the dealers would be paid Rs 20 per empty bag. The government is expecting pooling in of gunny bags from FP dealers sooner than later as 2.51 lakh metric tonnes of rice has been distributed to white ration card holders in just 8 days.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/cm-pushes-for-more-gunny-bag-units-in-t/articleshow/75226935.cms||Roushan Ali
April 19, 2020||Rajkot||Fake tobacco unit busted in Amreli, one held||Rajkot: A duplicate tobacco manufacturing unit was busted in Matirala village of Lathi taluka in Amreli district on Saturday. The factory owner was arrested in this connection. “We raided the factory after receiving a tip-off about raw tobacco being mixed with glycerine and loaded into the packets of big brands. We seized a tobacco mixing machine, 700 litre glycerine, 27 bags of raw tobacco totalling to 771 kg, sealing machines, 15 kg menthol powder and empty pouches of different popular tobacco brands, all worth Rs 1.23 lakh from the spot,” said Bhavesh Dhandhal, head constable with Lathi police station. Police arrested the factory owner, identified as Mahesh Soliya (36).||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/fake-tobacco-unit-busted-in-amreli-one-held/articleshow/75226931.cms||---
April 19, 2020||Visakhapatnam||Lockdown helps forest dept curb man-animal conflicts||Visakhapatnam: Man-animal conflicts have always been a concern for the forest department, but the lockdown imposed to prevent spread of coronavirus (Covid-19) has helped them avert such situations. A heard of six wild elephants that were spotted in Srikakulam near the Odisha border a few months ago have moved back to the Kurupam range in Vizianagaram district. Forest officials say that the reason for the pachyderms to return is the availability of sufficient food and water. The officials further said people have also stopped venturing out of their homes and farmers are also keeping away from their fields and orchards. “One of the main reasons for the elephants returning to the Kurupam range so early is easy access to food and water, which are in abundance now. Moreover, there is little room for conflict as farmers have almost abandoned their banana orchards due to the Covid-19 threat,” said Kurupam range officer M Murali Krishna. Sources said that the incident at Basangi last year where a woman was trampled to death by elephants made forest officials introduce extra measures such as creation of WhatsApp groups to alert people wherever and whenever animals move. The elephant monitoring cell headed by ranger Annuru Prema has also increased its staff strength from 15 to 20 after the lockdown was announced. “This was done to strengthen our team at a time when police services are not available to help us monitor these animals,” Prema said, adding that now there are three full-time field officers on the job. The staff, assisted by revenue department officials, are monitoring elephant movement 24x7, but there are times when curious locals get too close to the animals. “With people being restricted to their homes, some locals get adventurous and tru to get a closer look at the elephants just for fun. We are having a tough time holding these youngsters back,” Murali Krishna said. However, all measure are being taken while ensuring that lockdown protocols are followed, including social distancing among officials.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/visakhapatnam/lockdown-helps-forest-dept-curb-man-animal-conflicts/articleshow/75225987.cms||Venkatesh Bayya
April 19, 2020||Chennai||Panic in Madras high court as coronavirus ‘positive’ staffer mingled in court||CHENNAI: Panic hit Madras high court on Saturday, as a junior assistant attached to a government law officer tested positive for Covid-19. The entire campus was put on high alert and steps were taken to sanitise the premises, as the staff attended court including open court hearings on April 15 and April 16. The employee is said to have attended proceedings when a division bench was hearing cases in a crowded court hall. The high court and state health department officials have initiated steps to identify all those who came in contact with the staffer. They shall be traced, tested for Covid-19 and put under quarantine, if needed, court sources told TOI. As the employee would have passed through the Central Industrial Security Force (CISF) screening, those posts are also being scanned. According to court sources, all the law officers, including the advocate-general and additional advocate-general who attended the court hearings were subjected to Covid-19 tests as a precaution. The fact that a staff member of the court has tested positive was confirmed by state health minister C Vijayabaskar during the daily Covid-19 media bulletin on Saturday. Though regular functioning of the high court and its subordinate courts across the state have been suspended since March 24 in view of the nationwide lockdown, the courts were adopting restrictive functioning by taking up only urgent cases with prior approval. Though most of such special sittings by a division bench or a single judge were organised through video conferencing and video calling facilities through online platforms and apps, a few cases were heard in the open court. In one such incident, a division bench of the court heard a batch of pleas relating to media reports relating to COvid-19 and linking it to a particular community, and challenging the restriction imposed by the state government in distributing Covid-19 relief materials to public directly by political parties and NGOs on April 16. The hearings were attended by a group of law officers, including the advocate-general, senior advocates representing the petitioners and a journalists representing print and television media.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/panic-in-hc-as-positive-staffer-mingled-in-court/articleshow/75227447.cms||---
April 19, 2020||Bhubaneswar||Urban Seva App comes to rescue of Silk City residents||Berhampur: Getting a plumber or an electrician during the lockdown is next to impossible, thanks to the restriction on people’s movement and the lack of public transport. Urban Seva, an app-cum-helpline number launched by the Berhampur Municipal Corporation (BeMC) in January to provide essential services at the doorstep, has come as a relief for many in Silk City. The app can be used to call skilled persons such as plumbers and electricians who have registered themselves with the BeMC. Around 250 different services are available on the platform, said BeMC commissioner Chakravarti Singh Rathore. Around 50 technicians have registered themselves with Urban Seva, which was launched in collaboration with a city-based private agency. “On Friday, we assigned more technicians to repair of air-conditioner, computer, battery, kitchen chimney and water purifier,” Rathore said. “Generally, technicians are more in demand during summer since more devices are in use during this time. If one needs a service, Urban Seva will send the required technician to people’s homes,” Rathore added. Mobile numbers of the service providers have also been circulated on different WhatsApp groups. “The charges for these services will be reasonable,” the BeMC commissioner said. Urban Seva is also being used to deliver cooked food to people during the lockdown.The civic body plans to add more services to Urban Seva, given the positive response it has got. “We were worried about how to find an electrician to replace the stabilizer of my AC which went bust. But the problem was resolved in just 30 minutes, following a call to Urban Seva,” said Jagannath Panigrahy of Gandhi Nagar.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhubaneswar/urban-seva-app-comes-to-rescue-of-silk-city-residents/articleshow/75225178.cms||Hrusikesh Mohanty
April 19, 2020||Bhopal||Bhopal: Screening & survey are mere formality, claim residents||BHOPAL: During the ongoing Covid-19 pandemic, the most important task in a ‘containment area’ is sanitization of the entire area, screening of persons living in the vicinity of the house of the person found infected by coronavirus (epicentre) and health survey of people in the entire area. This is how, it is ensured that if somebody from the vicinity has come in contact with the infected person and has got infected, is quarantined, a person with primary symptoms of the infection is also quarantined, and if required, their sample is taken for testing. Besides, a person going out or coming into the restricted area should be mandatorily screened so that the virus neither goes out nor comes in from that restricted zone. Besides, the area is completely sanitized so as to clear the area of the virus. But, how effectively this process is being followed in over 100 ‘containment areas’of Bhopal? Here’s an update... “I feel the area was declared ‘containment area’ just for the sake of it. The most important thing to me in this situation was the presence of health workers, who screen the people who go out or come into the restricted area, but it didn’t happen. I never found a health worker at the entry or the exit point. Police were also quite liberal in allowing people to go out. People were not coming in, of course, because of fear more than anything else. Also, the area was not fumigated regularly as the protocol recommends. Some parts of the ‘containment area’ near the ‘epicentre’ was sanitized on March 22, soon after the first coronavirus positive patient was detected in Bhopal in our colony. Later on, I had to make several calls to get the area around my house fumigated”, said a person, who lives 150-200 metres away from the house of a journalist in Professors’ Colony, whose daughter was the first coronavirus patient in Bhopal, and he had also got the infection, later on. Prof Zamiruddin, also a resident of Professors Colony, said, “Screening is done of people who live in the vicinity of the epicentre, but health survey should be carried out in the entire containment area, as per the protocol published in the media suggests, but nobody came for any survey at my residence.” Amol Jain, who stays in an apartment in Kolar area, which is also among the ‘containment area’ pointed out that as the number of ‘containment areas’ increased rapidly in the past few days, the district administration relaxed the norms applicable to those areas on its own.  “In place of restricting entry into one km radius of containment area and demarcating 2 km radius area of buffer zone, the district administration only barricaded the apartment, where the infected persons lived and even in such a small area comprising a maximum of 200 flats or 100-odd duplexes, screening of persons or health survey was not properly carried out.” “They may have gone to some houses in the vicinity of the flat where coronavirus patient was fund. Maybe the entire block in which his flat was located was screened, but screening in the entire apartment building was not carried out, nor any survey took place,” said Jain. An official, who was part of a rapid action team formed for one of the containment areas, said on the condition of anonymity, "The problem is lack of coordination among people engaged to take care of different tasks. Health officials, police, administration, BMC, they are all working ‘independent’ of one another and not in tandem, therefore the mismanagement and confusion.” The spokesperson for the district administration, Arun Rathore, however, said that if anything mentioned in the protocol for the containment area is not done, a complaint can be lodged at helpline no. 104 or 181.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/screening-survey-are-mere-formality-claim-residents/articleshow/75227771.cms||---
April 19, 2020||Rajkot||Rajkot: IMFL worth Rs 62 lakh seized from Keshod||RAJKOT: A total of 15,528 bottles of Indian-made foreign liquor (IMFL) worth Rs 62 lakh were seized from a factory on Agatrai Road on the outskirts of Keshod in Junagadh district on Saturday morning. Police have booked the bootleggers, identified as Ravi Bharai, Samir Rabari, Yogesh Gondalia and the truck driver who had made the delivery of the liquor and the supplier who had uploaded the liquor cache on to the truck for the crme. “We raided the factory after receiving a tip-off that Bharai and Rabari had offloaded the liquor cache into the factory. Apart from the liquor bottles, we have also seized the truck which had transported the IMFL bottles and a bike,” said R K Gohel, sub-inspector with Junagadh local crime branch.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/imfl-worth-rs-62l-seized-from-keshod/articleshow/75226946.cms||---
April 19, 2020||Bhubaneswar||Parents of Ganjam students seek govt help to bring them back from Kota||Berhampur: Parents of several Ganjam students, who have been stranded in Kota, the nation’s tutorial centre for entrance examinations in Rajasthan, due to the nationwide lockdown are very much worried and appealed to the government for making arrangements for their safe return. Over 100 students from different areas of the district had gone to Kota last year to take admission in coaching institutes for competitive examinations like engineering and medical. “My daughter took admission in a private coaching institute at Kota in May last year. She was preparing for the medical entrance (NEET-UG) there. Now she is crying to return home following the extension of lockdown till May 3,” said Siba Prasad Rath of Digapahandi. He said five students — all girls of Digapahandi — are housed in a hostel. “They are now feeling helpless as there is no kith or kin there to help them as they want to return to the village early,” said P Raja Babu Dora, a parent. “We are worried about safety and security of our daughters in the distant place,” he said. “We have requested the state government for making arrangements for their smooth return or give us inter-state passes to bring back our children,” said Krushna Chandra Gouda, another parent. On Friday, Uttar Pradesh government took back their stranded students at Kota in 300 buses. The UP government took back 7,500 students from the state in the buses after the students and their parents sent an SOS to the government. “After students of UP left the place, Odisha students are eagerly waiting for the response of Odisha government,” said Bala Krushna Pradhan, another parent from Berhampur. His daughter is also stranded in Kota. Rajasthan chief minister Ashok Gehlot tweeted that other state governments can follow the UP government. Students in Kota can be sent to their home states after getting consent from respective state governments, he said. “We have already dashed off a letter to chief secretary, appealing for intervention of the state government for safe return of the Odia students in Kota,” said Rath. He said they have also apprised Ganjam collector Vijay Amruta Kulange of the plights of the students. “The collector has assured us to take up the issue with the state government,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhubaneswar/parents-of-ganjam-students-seek-govt-help-to-bring-them-back-from-kota/articleshow/75225192.cms||Hrusikesh Mohanty
April 19, 2020||Jaipur||Over 1.80 lakh packets of dry ration distributed in dist||Jaipur: The district administration has distributed 88,000 of dry ration packets in Jaipur city and 93,758 packets were distributed through Bhamashahs and civil defence personnel in the rural areas till Friday, according to the official records. In Sitapura area, after the industrial workers complained about not having received ration packets since lockdown was imposed, the administration distributed around 10,000 packets of dry ration till yesterday (Friday). However, the civil society groups complained that the situation is bad with regard to distribution of ration packets in Vishwakarma and Jothwara industrial areas. “The situation in Vishwakarma and Jothwara industrial areas is worse than Sitapura. In Sitapura, 80-90% workers used to stay alone or in groups. But, in these areas, they live with their families. So, it is becoming difficult for the families to sustain themselves. We are talking to the district administration and have requested them to conduct a survey of those areas and start distributing ration packets,” said Mukesh Goswami of Mazdoor Kisan Shakti Sangathan. The distribution of dry ration packets was done in the district after the administration conducted a survey to identify people for distribution. These people included those who were not covered under the National Food Security Act. Most of them were migrant labourers, beggars, cart pullers, rickshaw pullers and others. District supplies officer (Jaipur-II) Gopal Singh said as on April 17, 93,758 packets of dry ration have been distributed in Jaipur rural. JMC commissioner V P Singh, who is in charge of distribution of dry ration in Jaipur city, said 88,000 packets were distributed till Friday. Earlier, district collector Joga Ram had said 25,000 people were identified in rural areas and 18,000 people in urban areas for distribution of dry ration in the district. Later, these numbers were scaled up looking at the requirement of the people. Box ‘Arrange spl train for workers’ Jaipur: Several civil society groups, NGOs and labour unions on Saturday wrote to chief minister Ashok Gehlot and urged him to request Prime Minister Narendra Modi and railways minister Piyush Goyal to operate special trains for sending lakhs of migrant and industrial labourers to their respective villages and home towns.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/over-1-80-lakh-packets-of-dry-ration-distributed-in-dist/articleshow/75227445.cms||---
April 19, 2020||Thiruvananthapuram||Kerala records four new cases & two recoveries||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM: On Saturday, four more Covid-19 cases were reported in the state; three in Kannur and one is Kozhikode. While three of them had returned from UAE, one in Kannur contracted the disease through contact with a patient. Two patients from Kasaragod recovered on Saturday after testing negative. “At present, 140 patients are under treatment in various hospitals. Till date, 257 persons have recovered and were discharged,” said health minister K K Shailaja. The health condition of those undergoing treatment is stable. The number of persons who are under observation in Kerala decreased to 67,190. Among them 66,686 persons are in home quarantine and 504 persons are admitted to hospitals. On Saturday, 104 persons, who had symptoms, were admitted to hospitals for observation. Also, 18,774 samples were sent for testing, of which 17,763 samples tested negative. Shailaja also announced the addition of four more labs to test Covid-19 in state. Labs at medical colleges of Ernakulam, Kottayam, Manjeri and Kannur can do real time-PCR test to identify the presence of coronavirus in samples. "Functioning of the lab at Ernakulam medical college began today. Other three labs are ready and will begin functioning once ICMR approval is obtained," she said. With Ernakulam MCH in the list, as many as 11 labs in the state can now conduct Covid-19 testing. At first, only NIV in Alappuzha had the facility for testing. Two private labs in Ernakulam and Kozhikode are also conducting tests. State government has purchased 10 PCR machines for conducting Covid-19 tests.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/thiruvananthapuram/state-records-four-new-cases-two-recoveries/articleshow/75226042.cms||---
April 19, 2020||Ajmer||11 test positive from Ajmer shelter home in last three days||AJMER: Shelter homes seem to have become hotspots for Covid-19 infection in Ajmer. As many as 11 persons tested positive in the last three days just from one shelter home in the city, and results of other 173 inmates are awaited. After the results came to light, the district administration started searching for the homeless, to put them into shelter homes. Two inmates who had escaped from the Rail Museum shelter home were caught in Vaishali Nagar when they were withdrawing money from the ATM. Nasirabad Road has been completely sealed and the residents of the area alleged that the district administration has failed to follow the guidelines for shelter homes issued by WHO and the Central government and therefore, the virus spread among 11 people in just 24 hours and there could be more. They demanded to shift the shelter home to the outskirts of the city. After the residents insisted, district administration on Saturday afternoon shifted the shelter home situated at Rail Museum to Durai, which is on the outskirts of the city towards Beawar. The first positive case was found in Ajmer on March 26 and the fifth on March 31. After that, the virus spread was controlled in the city until on Thursday the cases started coming in from the shelter home and in last three days, 11 cases have surfaced from the same place. District collector Vishwa Mohan Sharma and SP Kunwar Rashtradeep on Saturday conducted a press briefing and the collector said that things were under control. Police official briefed that the homeless including beggars have been taken to shelter homes and the ones who escaped were also found.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ajmer/11-test-positive-from-ajmer-shelter-home-in-last-3-days/articleshow/75227451.cms||---
April 19, 2020||Bhubaneswar||Govt yet to take call on common PG entrance test||Bhubaneswar: Higher education minister Arun Kumar Sahoo said a decision on holding a common PG entrance test in the state this year would be taken after discussion with vice-chancellors of public universities. The government had decided to hold a common entrance test for admission to PG courses at state universities from this year. Students would get a seat according to their eligibility and test performance. The pandemic has thrown the plan into disarray. “We will interact with vice-chancellors of the universities through videoconferencing soon to discuss what can be done with the common PG entrance test,” the minister said. At present, a student has to submit application forms separately at each university of their choice and appear for multiple entrance examinations. The common entrance test would have saved them from appearing for separate tests. “This system will bring all universities on a single platform. Students will fill a single form and sit for one entrance test for all state universities,” a higher education department official said. The minister on Saturday held a review of the higher education department’s course of action once educational institutions reopen after June 17. “We will conduct examinations soon after the colleges and universities reopen. I appeal to students to be ready to appear for semester, final-year and entrance tests,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhubaneswar/govt-yet-to-take-call-on-common-pg-entrance-test/articleshow/75225204.cms||---
April 19, 2020||Nashik||Admin allows industries to operate in rural area on a cautious note||Nashik: Clearing the air on ‘red’ and ‘orange’ zones for the start of industrial operations, Nashik collector Suraj Mandhare said that select industries in the rural areas of Nashik district — those not in the containment zones and outside the municipal limits — will be allowed to function, but with limited staff and utmost precautions. “There have been some reports about ‘red’ and ‘orange’ zone demarcations across the state. That is limited to the health department. As far as industries are concerned, all units related to the production of essential commodities, agriculture and allied activities can start functioning, but only with prior permission and pledge of safety, social distancing and facility for sanitisation,” the collector said. People who wish to apply for the starting their industrial units can file their applications online by visiting permission.midcindia.org, a portal developed by the Maharashtra Industrial Development Corporation (MIDC). They should complete the formalities and ensure strict social distancing norms, sanitisation of employees and, if possible, make arrangements for people to stay on the campus. “Guidelines issued by the central and state governments allow the operation of most industries to ensure that the country’s economy can start taking steps towards normalcy. However, all permissions given to the industries in the containment zones —areas that have had confirmed Covid-19 cases — stand automatically withdrawn,” the officer added. The public transport system is completely off the road and that means there are no buses, taxis, autorickshaws or even trucks to carry the people. The factories have to arrange for dedicated transport services with social distancing norm in place. The factories that are willing to create infrastructure for the stay of the workers without compromising on social distancing are welcome to do so. Only those in essential services sector are allowed to use two-wheelers (without pillion riders) or a car with at the most two persons seated behind. Restaurants can serve takeaways, but no dining-in is allowed, the collector added. The industries have welcomed the move though they expect only about 40% of the industries would benefit from the permissions. “Though the big industries will remain shut, we are hopeful things will fall in place one step at a time,” Shashikant Jadhav, Nashik Industries Manufacturers’ Association (NIMA) president, said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/admin-allows-industries-to-operate-in-rural-area-on-a-cautious-note/articleshow/75226956.cms||Abhilash Botekar
April 19, 2020||Hyderabad||Ailing girl gets timely medical help||Jangaon: A 12-year-old daughter of a migrant labourer couple in Palakurthy received timely medical help amidst the lockdown. The health condition of the girl, who was suffering from acute illness, was deteriorating in the last few days and thanks to the intervention of minister Errabelli Dayakar Rao, police and other authorities allowed her to travel to Hanamkonda where she got specialised treatment. The girl is recovering now. Her parents — Battula Srinivas and Lakshmi — had migrated to Maharashtra to make ends meet and were digging wells on a daily wage basis. Just before the lockdown came into effect, they had returned to their native village. Also, they had no money to get their daughter trearted. Speaking to STOI, the minister said chief minister K Chandrasekhar Rao is firm that help must be extended to all BPL and needy families during the coronavirus crisis. A vehicle was arranged to bring the ailing girl from Palakurthy to Hanamkonda. DM&HO Dr Lalitha Devi said the girl is being provided the best medicare at the government materinity hospital in Hanamkonda.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/ailing-girl-gets-timely-medical-help/articleshow/75226966.cms||Shiva Kumar Pinna
April 19, 2020||Delhi||Met predicts overcast skies in Delhi; relief to stay for a few days||NEW DELHI: Following a spell of rains in parts of Delhi-NCR last evening, the weathermen's forecast for Sunday shows overcast skies could occur again, alongside thundery development, with chances of rain on both Monday and Tuesday. The capital recorded another spell of rain on Saturday as strong gusty winds struck in the evening. Some parts of the city also recorded hailstorm in the evening. While the capital continued to sizzle during the day, recording a maximum of 37.3 degrees Celsius, the skies turned pitch black by the evening with gusty winds. A Met official said that winds reached speeds of up to the speed of 40 km/hr, and this was followed by a spell of strong showers and hail in parts of east Delhi. Temperatures plummeted soon after, with the mercury dropping to 32 degrees Celsius in the matter of an hour. The minimum temperature was recorded at 22.6 degrees Celsius. Safdarjung, Delhi’s base station recorded ‘trace’ rainfall between 5.30pm and 8.30pm. The city had recorded 1.8mm of rainfall on Friday. “A western disturbance and high temperature brought light rain on Friday and while we didn’t expect rain on Saturday too, parts of the capital recorded some rain. The activity was more pronounced towards Uttar Pradesh, causing hail in parts of east Delhi and Noida,” said Kuldeep Srivastava, scientist at IMD. The overall Air Quality Index (AQI), meanwhile, returned to the ‘satisfactory’ range for the first time since April 9, with a reading of 98. The AQI has been in the ‘moderate’ range since April 10, with dustladen winds blowing from the western parts of India. The System of Air Quality and Weather Forecasting And Research, a Union body under the ministry of earth sciences says AQI is likely to remain in a similar range for the next few days with isolated thunderstorms expected to occur for the next 72 hours.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/hail-rain-in-parts-of-city-relief-to-stay-for-a-few-days/articleshow/75227788.cms||---
April 19, 2020||Chennai||Tamil Nadu: To jail & out for a DIY drink with no alcohol||CHENNAI: “How long, oh, how long will they remain closed,” is probably the lament of harassed parents each summer before schools reopen. Now, with liquor shops closed, it seems to have become the collective prayer of tipplers. Some think up ingenious ways to break into Tasmac outlets; others try out alternatives, often with dangerous results; still others pine away silently. Most people, a police officer said, feel they can’t wait for the authorities to open liquor outlets. Autorickshaw drivers Raja, 34, and George Joseph, 31, enlightened by a Tik-Tok video, decided to brew their own tipple. The residents of the Thiru-Vi-Ka slum clearance board quarters in Teynampet rushed to a siddha pharmacy, bought Kadukkai (myrobalan), Vettiver (camel grass) and jaggery. The mixture they immersed in a pot of water and waited for three days before consuming it. They then boasted to a few friends about their invention. The news spread and a team of the Teynampet police arrived and whisked them away to the station. Booked on charges of preparing consuming liquor illegally, they were later let off after prohibition enforcement wing officers said there was no alcohol in the mixture. Many have become restless and are constantly fighting with their family members, said the officer. Kanchana (name changed), a resident of Kotturpuram who sells flower near a temple in T Nagar, said: “My husband Kuppusamy, a habitual drinker, was a security guard at a private company in Ambattur. Due to the lockdown, he has not been going to work. He is angry and quarrels with me often as he doesn’t get liquor.” In the initial days of the lockdown, a few vented their anger on the liquor shops. In Chennai’s suburbs such as Tiruvallur and Kancheepuram, some broke the locks of shutters, while others drilled holes into the walls and stole liquor. Almost all were caught. Then the authorities shifted liquor consignments from 1,000 vulnerable Tasmac shops in the state to the nearest depots to ensure they won’t be touched.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/to-jail-out-for-a-diy-drink-with-no-alcohol/articleshow/75227453.cms||---
April 19, 2020||Bhubaneswar||Govt school kids to get lessons on EDUSAT, WhatsApp||BHUBANESWAR: The state government on Saturday decided to telecast recorded episodes of the EDUSAT programme for Class X students on Doordarshan from April 20. Besides, students from classes II to X in government schools will also receive lessons on WhatsApp through the teaching-learning programme Siksha Sanjog from Sunday. The facility will be made available in Khurda district initially and then replicated in other districts. EDUSAT or Educational Satellite is a communications satellite launched by the Indian Space Research Organisation. It is the first dedicated Educational Satellite that provides the country with satellite-based two-way communication to classrooms for delivering educational materials. “We have decided on telecasting recorded episodes of online EDUSAT classes available with the Odisha Space Application Centre (ORSAC) for Class X students from April 20 to March 12,” wrote Sanatan Panda, joint director of Odisha School Education Programme Authority in a letter to all district education officers, district project coordinators and block education officers on Saturday. Telecast of educational videos will be done from Monday to Friday. Two classes will be held, from 11 am to noon and from 3.30 pm to 4.30 pm, during weekdays. Subjects like mathematics, sciences, English and geography will be covered over 34 videos. Students welcomed the idea but said this would not give them a chance to clear their doubts. “Watching teachers take classes on television is good but how can we clear doubts, if any,” wondered Namita Kundu, a Class X student. Students of Khurda district will also get lessons on WhatsApp from Sunday. “Teachers will upload three videos each day for students of classes up to VIII. Classes IX and X will have four classes each day. Students can watch the videos at their own convenience. They will also be provided with worksheets. We have formed 16 groups, mentored by nine headmasters and nine BEOs. Students can clear their doubts on any subject on this group as well,” said Bandana Mohapatra, district education officer, Khurda. On Sunday, an introductory class will be held in which students will be told about the WhatsApp classes and their timings. An awareness class on Covid-19 and the lockdown will also be shared with the children.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhubaneswar/govt-school-kids-to-get-lessons-on-edusat-whatsapp/articleshow/75225211.cms||Minati Singha
April 19, 2020||Nashik||4,808 docs, paramedics to be hired temporarily in division||Nashik: The office of deputy director of health services has taken up a recruitment drive to fill 4,808 vacant posts of doctors and paramedical staff, temporarily, in various government hospitals in the Nashik circle that comprises Nashik, Ahmednagar, Dhule, Jalgaon and Nandurbar districts. The vacancies are being filled to ensure that all confirmed and suspected Covid-19 patients get quick treatment. The recruitment drive is being conducted under the National Health Mission. Professionals to be recruited include physicians, anaesthetists, MBBS medical officers, BAMS and BUMS Ayush medical officers, hospital managers, staff nurses, x-ray technicians, ECG technicians, lab technicians, pharmacists, stores officers, clerk-cum-typists and ward boys. If the posts do not get filled, the government would temporarily rope in retired doctors and para-medical staff. To control the outbreak, the government is also starting Covid care centres, dedicated Covid health centres and dedicated Covid hospitals. While the Covid care centres will be at the village level, the Covid health centres would be at the taluka level and the Covid hospitals at the district level. Currently, the entire health machinery is focused on tracing new Covid-19 patients, checking their close contacts and providing them treatment. While Asha and health workers, Anganwadi sevikas and other doctors are putting in their best efforts to trace patients and their close contacts, treatment available to non-Covid patients is indirectly being affected. To tackle this issue, the Covid care centres, dedicated Covid health centres and dedicated covid hospital are being set up. Officials said that with the formation of these Covid care facilities and recruitment of staff would help provide proper attention to Covid patient. The other medical staff can then focus on providing services to non-Covid patients.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/4808-docs-paramedics-to-be-hired-temporarily-in-division/articleshow/75226962.cms||Santosh Sonawane
April 19, 2020||Jaipur||Rajasthan: Bhilwara fares well in abiding lockdown and curfew||JAIPUR: Success of the Bhilwara model cannot be solely attributed to the state government and its machinery as credit should also be given to the 27 lakh people of the district. Figures released by Rajasthan police on action taken against lockdown violators and curfew suggested that the district had minimal number of defiance and complete abiding of curfew rules by its residents. Jaipur has fared the worst in terms of following lockdown orders and curfew. According to data, people in Bhilwara followed the curfew strictly as there are minimal number of arrests and cases of violations. Only two persons were arrested in Bhilwara till date for defying curfew while three were arrested for their social media posts to mislead people. “In Jaipur, 145 people were arrested till Saturday which included 77 from Jaipur (North) where Walled City is situated. Fourteen persons were arrested for their involvement in posting inflamatory information on Covid-19,” said an officer. Nearly 200 people were taken in custody as a preventive measure. A senior officer of Jaipur police said, “We have been strict against the violators.” Rajasthan police has collected a fine of nearly Rs 2.31 crore since lockdown and curfew was imposed in many till Saturday. “We have arrested 1,187 persons for defying lockdown and curfew from various parts of the state so far. In all, 186 were arrested for sharing wrong information on Covid-19 and for disturbing harmony through social networking platforms,” BL Soni, ADG crime, told TOI. “We urge public to abide curfew and lockdown which is for their safety. Rajasthan police is well-equipped to take stringent action,” he added. Also, 86,306 vehicles were seized across the state. “They were roaming despite not been into transportation of essential commodities,” said an officer.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/bhilwara-fares-well-in-abiding-lockdown-and-curfew/articleshow/75227460.cms||Ashish Mehta
April 19, 2020||Rajkot||Man fleeing from cops killed by train engine in Rajkot||RAJKOT: A man fleeing from the cops fearing arrest for violating lockdown, was killed after he was rammed by a train engine on the railway tracks in Dhararnagar locality of Jamnagar on Friday night. Police said the deceased, identified as Sarfaraz Shirman (27), started running on the railway tracks in order to save himself from the cops. “We spotted a group of people gathered in Dhararnagar locality. When we went to arrest them for allegedly breaking the lockdown order, three from the group started fleeing. When we ran after them, Sarfaraz started running on the railway tracks and got in the way of a speeding railway engine,” said J V Rathod, inspector with Jamnagar B division police station. The death sparked tension in Dhararnagar where people started gathering in protest. However, the police called re-enforcements from different police stations and dispersed the crowd.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/man-fleeing-from-cops-killed-by-train-engine/articleshow/75226960.cms||---
April 19, 2020||Hubballi||Karnataka: Two ministers defy lockdown, distribute food and health kits||BALLARI: Two senior ministers in Karnataka are in the eye of a storm after they allegedly violated lockdown measures imposed by their own government and distributed free food, groceries, vegetables and protective kits to poor people, here on Saturday. Health minister B Sriramulu, who is part of the task force to fight Covid-19 in Karnataka, and forest minister Anand Singh, who is also the district incharge minister for Ballari, have since then faced flak from various quarters including from their own party leaders for allegedly letting hundreds of people throng to collect free food packets from them in Ballari and Hospet, which together has recorded 13 positive cases so far. Many who rushed to grab food packets did not bother to protect themselves with even a mask. Visuals showed people coming in hordes and jostling to collect the packets. The videos, which have gone viral, also showed Sriramulu standing with his team by the roadside at Rupangudi Road in Ballari and spreading out tables to distribute food kits to people. Those in the queue included elderly, women and children. “Whoever has done it, he has committed a blunder whether it is Sriramulu in Ballari or Anand Singh in Hospet. All these elected representatives want to show that they are serving people in their constituency. It is nothing but a political stunt,” said a senior BJP leader, slamming the duo. However, Sriramulu and Singh blamed the people, who came in large numbers to collect the food packets. “We had asked them to come wearing masks and also advised them to maintain distance. But they did not heed to our plea,” they claimed. Nearly one lakh food and health kits were given to people.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hubballi/two-ministers-defy-lockdown-distribute-food-and-health-kits/articleshow/75226035.cms||---
April 19, 2020||Delhi||Hail & rain in parts of city, relief to stay for a few days||New Delhi: The capital recorded another spell of rain on Saturday as strong gusty winds struck in the evening. Some parts of the city also recorded hailstorm in the evening. While the capital continued to sizzle during the day, recording a maximum of 37.3 degrees Celsius, the skies turned pitch black by the evening with gusty winds. A Met official said that gusty winds blew up to the speed of 40 km/hr, followed by a spell of strong showers and hail in parts of east Delhi. Temperatures plummeted soon after, with the mercury dropping to 32 degrees Celsius in the matter of an hour. The minimum temperature was recorded at 22.6 degrees Celsius. Safdarjung, Delhi’s base station recorded ‘trace’ rainfall between 5.30pm and 8.30pm. The city had recorded 1.8mm of rainfall on Friday. Forecast for Sunday shows overcast skies could occur again, alongside thundery development, with chances of rain on both Monday and Tuesday. “A western disturbance and high temperature brought light rain on Friday and while we didn’t expect rain on Saturday too, parts of the capital recorded some rain. The activity was more pronounced towards Uttar Pradesh, causing hail in parts of east Delhi and Noida,” said Kuldeep Srivastava, scientist at IMD. The overall Air Quality Index (AQI), meanwhile, returned to the ‘satisfactory’ range for the first time since April 9, with a reading of 98. The AQI has been in the ‘moderate’ range since April 10, with dust-laden winds blowing from the western parts of India. The System of Air Quality and Weather Forecasting And Research , a Union body under the ministry of earth sciences says AQI is likely to remain in a similar range for the next few days with isolated thunderstorms expected to occur for the next 72 hours.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/hail-rain-in-parts-of-city-relief-to-stay-for-a-few-days/articleshow/75227787.cms||---
April 19, 2020||Goa||Hit by shortfall, Hospicio appeals for blood donations||Margao: With blood donation camps suspended during the lockdown, blood banks in Goa have been grappling with a severe shortage. Hospicio, Margao — whose blood bank caters to the requirements of the entire South Goa district, including 36 private hospitals — is one of these. Prior to the lockdown, the government-run hospital would conduct 6-8 camps every month and the daily demand from its blood bank was around 20 units. But with only emergency procedures being presently conducted at hospitals, Hospicio’s blood bank had been issuing only around 10 units of blood each day. It has started appealing for in-house blood donations. Dr Ravin Rego, medical officer in charge of the blood bank at Hospicio, says they have been depending on volunteers and regular donors, and urging them to bring in their friends to donate blood.  The team has also devised a system encouraging blood donations by appointments to avoid crowding. Special travel passes are arranged for donors so that they face no hurdles while getting to the hospital. “They have to call in advance to inform the blood bank that they will be coming. We then schedule a time and issue them a pass,” Rego says. In addition to regular screening, doctors are also ensuring that the donors do not have any history of travel or any contact with a Covid-19 positive patient. “We follow strict guidelines from the National Blood Transfusion Committee. Masks and hand sanitisers are used and social distancing is maintained during blood donation,” Rego says. Hospicio’s blood bank phone number is 0832-2703801.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/hit-by-shortfall-hospicio-appeals-for-blood-donations/articleshow/75227778.cms||Lisa Monteiro
April 19, 2020||Kochi||Last patient in Thrissur to be discharged||Thrissur: All Covid-19 patients in Thrissur district, who were under treatment, have recovered and there is no active case in the district now, informed the district administration. The lone patient under treatment in the district has consecutively tested negative and he will be discharged on Sunday. With this, all 13 people who got Covid-19 infection in the district have been cured, said officials.  Now, 4,552 people are under home quarantine in the district and 10 are in hospital for observation, said officials. A person from Thrissur was the first Covid-19 patient in India. She was a medical student who had returned from Wuhan in China.  6,000 Covid-19 rapid test kits in Palakkad soon: The minister for welfare of scheduled castes and scheduled tribes, A K Balan, said that Palakkad district will get 6,000 rapid test kits for Covid-19 shortly. He said that the hospitals in the district have enough ventilators. It has only two Covid-19 patients undergoing treatment in the district hospital. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/last-patient-in-thrissur-to-be-discharged/articleshow/75226076.cms||---
April 19, 2020||Vadodara||Vadodara: Nurse on duty for 22 days tests negative||VADODARA: Health workers have started falling prey to COVID-19 infection in Vadodara city and district. A head nurse who was in-charge of Vadodara’s dedicated COVID-19 hospital at GMERS Medical College and Hospital at Gotri tested positive on Saturday. Even in the rural areas of Vadodara district, two health workers including a pharmacist and an auxiliary nurse midwife (ANM) working with the public health centre (PHC) at Dabhoi tested positive within 24 hours ending on Saturday. As sample of 38-year-old head nurse at GMERS Medical College and Hospital at Gotri came positive, three other head nurses, who were supposed to handle duties at the hospital, were kept under quarantine. Sources said that the head nurse was continuously serving at the COVID-19 hospital for 22 long days. “She was asked to handle work for a month which should have not happened. After I took over charge, I had appointed three head nurses to replace her but since her sample have tested positive, we will have to keep even these three nurses under quarantine,” said Dr Minoo Patel, former dean of Gotri Medical College, who has been appointed as honorary advisor to the hospital. “Now, we have appointed two head nurses. Although, we will not face any shortage, the head nurses who are now quarantine had experience of management during swine flu as well,” he said. Sources said that the 38-year-old health worker has her residence near Chhani canal road from where she had to arrive at the hospital on daily basis even as she was handling her duty in high-risk zone. At Kayavarohan PHC in Dabhoi taluka, a pharmacist working with the PHC had tested positive. The pharmacist had travelled to Vadodara to drop his wife near Nagarwada area of the city after which his sample tested positive, sources said. On Saturday, a 29-year-old ANM associated with the PHC also tested positive. She was shifted to Gotri hospital for treatment. “After the pharmacist tested positive, samples of all those who had come in his contact were collected and checked. The female health worker had gone to the PHC to collect some medicines,” said Dr Uday Tilawat, chief district health officer, Vadodara.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/nurse-on-duty-for-22-days-tests-ve/articleshow/75226743.cms||---
April 19, 2020||Delhi||Delhi: Already a hotspot, Tughlaqabad Extension sees 35 new Covid-19 cases||NEW DELHI: At least 35 cases of novel coronavirus were reported on Sunday from Tughlaqabad Extension, which was declared a hotspot by Delhi government on Friday. Three people, one of them a grocery store owner in his 50s, had tested positive for Covid-19 from Gali number 26. DCP (Southeast) RP Meena said, “After the first three cases were reported, swabs of 93 people from Gali numbers 26 and 27 were taken for testing for Covid-19. Out of these samples, 35 tested positive. Though we had already sealed these two lanes, the containment area was extended till between Gali numbers 24 and 28 on the directions of the district magistrate. Our staff will be deployed at these barricades so that nobody leaves or enters the area.” Tughlaqabad has become the third-largest coronavirus hotspot in the national capital. TOI tried to contact the district magistrate for updates, but she was not available for comments. Area councillor Poonam Bhati said the increase in the number of cases could be the result of community spread considering people were still meeting their relatives and friends. “The grocer and his two friends, who first tested positive, usually sat together in the evening. The government tested their family members, tenants and relatives. The samples of all 11 family members of the grocery shop owner came negative, probably because his house is far from his shop. However, 35 people, including family members of the other two men, their tenants and relatives, tested positive,” said Bhati. The councillor claimed that the infected people continued to meet despite the area being cordoned off. “All these cases were reported within 3-4 days. We have been requesting everyone to stay inside, but many are not adhering to the norms,” said Bhati, adding that the corporation had been regularly spraying disinfectants and the drive would be intensified.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/already-a-hotspot-tughlaqabad-extn-sees-35-new-cases/articleshow/75240313.cms||Vibha Sharma
April 19, 2020||Jaipur||RAC’s ‘medical warriors’ help cops, health workers||Jaipur: In order to facilitate Jaipur police and health officials, the Rajasthan Armed Constabulary (RAC), a unit of Rajasthan police, has formed a team of “medical warriors”. It comprises policemen who had prior training in medical and health especially nursing and pharmaceuticals. At least 32 such RAC policemen have already started working at the quarantine centres in the city and around Jaipur. Senior police officers at the Rajasthan Police headquarters were looking for constables and head constables who have some knowledge about healthcare so that they can carefully look after themselves and can facilitate others. “We have selected 32 men from our team who have degrees and diplomas in nursing and pharmaceuticals. As, in present scenario, where the country and the state is fighting against Covid-19 situation is such that, we should not be limited to maintaining law and order,” said Janga Srinivas Rao, additional director general (ADG), RAC told TOI on Saturday. He added that these selected policemen from RAC having training of nursing, first aid and others are facilitating Jaipur police at various quarantine centres. “This is just a beginning as I will urge policemen to be forthcoming in revealing if they have done any degree in nursing and may be in other fields relating to medical and health,” Rao added. “All those who have been selected for the medical warriors team comprises the constables and head constables who had done any degree of diploma in nursing and pharmaceuticals so that they can help the medical teams at quarantine centres in Jaipur,” he added. At least five companies of RAC have been deployed in walled city especially Ramganj where the state government is now eying to have ruthless containment. “Our teams are almost at the doorsteps as we are facilitating public in getting their food and grocery and helping them in emergency,” said Lokesh Sonwal, additional SP, RAC. At the walled city of Jaipur five companies of RAC and two companies of state disaster relief force (SDRF) are working round the clock in three shifts.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/racs-medical-warriors-help-cops-health-workers/articleshow/75227468.cms||---
April 19, 2020||Hyderabad||Sarpanch turns chowkidar, hands out hefty fines to lockdown violators||Hyderabad: A woman sarpanch in Adilabad district is cracking the whip on violators of lockdown. The sarpanch stands near the village chowki, handing out fines to whoever violates the lockdown. “We are worried about the rise in number of people affected with the virus. Instead of blaming others, I have decided to take matters into my own hands. Every day, I stand at the common chowki so that I can catch anyone who violates the lockdown,” said Meenakshi Gadge, sarpanch of Mukhra (K) village. As a result, fines in Mukhra (K), a remote village in Ichoda mandal, are mounting. This week alone, three persons were fined. In the first case, villager Tulsi Ram was fined Rs 1,000 for travelling in and out of the village five times without reason. In the second instance, a fine of Rs 500 was imposed on Pradeep and in the third, Rs 500 was imposed on Ravikanth for not wearing a mask while stepping out of home. The sarpanch, who has studied till class 10, says it is her duty to protect her village. Not just her, she is raising awareness among women on the coronavirus pandemic and importance of social distancing and adhering to the lockdown. Inspired by her, many women now help her guard the chowki. Gadge is not the only woman sarpanch taking the lead in the fight against the corona outbreak. The sarpanch of Madanapuram grama panchayat, Vudutha Akhila Yadav (25), too has been guarding the entry point to her village in Nalgonda. Photos of her holding a stick on the road to the village, to prevent people circumventing the lockdown, went viral recently.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/sarpanch-turns-chowkidar-hands-out-hefty-fines-to-lockdown-violators/articleshow/75226984.cms||---
April 19, 2020||Chennai||Chennai: Parents start Facebook page to auction kid’s lockdown art||CHENNAI: What began as proud parents sharing their children’s lockdown paintings with friends and family has turned into a virtual auction house that is a win-win for the little artists as well as the cause of animal welfare. Since the lockdown began, C Thangamani, a homemaker, has been keeping her children engaged in activities like art and craft.  “Since the summer holidays started early this year due to the Covid-19 pandemic, the kids have been painting a lot. It keeps them away from gadgets,” says Thangamani. She then started sharing the paintings with family on social media and they too began doing the same with their children’s artwork. That’s when Thangamani and her brother, Boothanathan Ramesh, a housing finance agency owner, decided to take it a step further to encourage the children to paint more often. The siblings started a Facebook page, Podhigai Charal, to auction paintings and craft work done by children. “As we were sharing pictures, we thought of giving some prize to the children for their paintings and that is when we thought of auctioning their work,” she says, adding that some of the proceeds go towards animal welfare. “We work closely with Blue Cross and other bird saving groups across the state. We want to help these organisations,” says Ramesh. The artwork is classified by age group – work by children between three and 10 years, between 11 and 18 years and above the age of 18. “The art and craft work is uploaded with a number and price, decided by the artist. Once we have a minimum of 15 uploads, we put out a date for the auction, and we let the parents of the children know,” says Thangamani, adding that the person who wins the auction pays the artist using Google Pay. The next auction date is tentatively May 3 when the lockdown is likely to be lifted. “When we get the money deposited in our account, half of it is transferred to child’s account and another half used for animal welfare. The original artwork is sent to the auction winner by courier,” says Ramesh. Ramesh says they have received several works of children not just from Chennai but neighbouring Puducherry as well. “We also have some adults who have uploaded their artwork, and have requested that the entire proceeds of their work be given to charity,” says Ramesh.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/parents-start-fb-page-to-auction-kids-lockdown-art/articleshow/75227463.cms||B Sivakumar
April 19, 2020||Hyderabad||Priests suffer as demand dries up||Secunderabad: Hundreds of priests who perform daily rituals in various small temples, which are categorised as lower income (revenue) group of temples, are in distress. After all temples including major, medium and small temples, were closed due to lockdown, the lives of the priests those are depende on ‘harathi offers’ are in miserable condition. For instance, in Secunderabad, over 2,000 priests used to perform in nearly 1,000 small temples (categorised under B & C classificaiton) in Secunderabad. “April and May are peak months for us to earn income through hundreds of marriages. But due to lockdown, the number of marriages have been different. Till September, there are no auspicious days to perform marriages,” a priest at Hanuman Temple, Lal Bazar in Secunderabad told TOI. Meanwhile, a member of the managing trust of a temple in Lal Bazar, S Gangadhar, urged the state government to extend help on the similar lines as migrant workers, by providing groceries like rice, commodities and vegetables to the priests till the lockdown is lifted. “Priests are coming to the roads and waiting for opportunities at several areas in Secunderabad to perform rituals for needy people,” said Gangadhar. The state government and NGOs have to come forward and rescue these priests, he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/priests-suffer-as-demand-dries-up/articleshow/75226994.cms||Sunil Mungara
April 19, 2020||Visakhapatnam||SHGs roped in to stitch cloth masks in Vizianagaram||Vizianagaram: The Mission for Elimination of Poverty in Municipal Areas (MEPMA) has taken up the task of producing 11 crore cloth masks to be distributed in the state. In order to achieve this goal, MEPMA authorities have ordered the district administration to rope in self-help groups (SHGs) to stitch masks for the locals of Vizianagaram town following which the officials have identified four production centres for the same. “Our target is to produce 13 lakh masks for the residents of Vizianagaram town and suburbs alone. There are over 4 lakh people and we need to manufacture at least three masks per head,” said district collector M Hari Jawahar Lal. So far, 50,000 metres of cloth has been distributed with the help of APCO and on the first day 3,000 masks have been stitched. “We are in the process of identifying more such stitching centres. In fact our target is not just to stitch enough for the district but more to reach out to other parts of the state,” the district collector said. Meanwhile, various self-help-groups in Vizianagaram have also come forward to do their bit in the fight against Covid-19 and have donated Rs 4.79 lakh to the CM’s relief fund.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/visakhapatnam/shgs-roped-in-to-stitch-cloth-masks-in-vizianagaram/articleshow/75226089.cms||---
April 19, 2020||Goa||Govt offices in state to function from tomorrow with 33% staff||Panaji: The state government offices will begin to function from Monday with bare minimum 33% staff strength. Heads of departments have been directed to call employees to work on alternate basis with attendance staggered in three time slots. The remaining staff will work from home. The order will remain in force till the end of lockdown on May 3. Undersecretary general administration Shripad Arlekar issued the office memorandum for government employees based on Union home ministry’s (MHA) guidelines. “All HODs shall prepare the duty roster to ensure that the employees are called to office on alternate basis so that up to 33% strength of the employees shall attend office on a particular day and remaining shall work from home on alternate day basis. Only absolutely essential staff may attend on a daily basis,” states the office memorandum. It has suggested dividing office hours for the employees attending office into three slots — from 9am to 4pm, 9.30am to 5pm and 10am to 5.30pm. Arlekar said that police, home guards, civil defence, fire and emergency services, disaster management, prison and municipal services will function without any restrictions. “All other departments, including district administration and treasury, will work with restricted staff. Group ‘A’ and ‘B’ officers shall attend, while Group ‘C’ and level below that may attend up to 33% of strength as per requirement to ensure social distancing. However, delivery of public services shall be ensured and necessary staff will be deployed for such purpose,” the office memorandum states. Arlekar said staff/workers of forest department are required to operate and maintain zoo, nurseries, wildlife, fire-fighting in forests, watering plantations and patrolling. Those working from home should be available on telephone and electronic means of communication at all times. They should attend office, if called for and if any exigency of work demands, he said. Arlekar said that departments are requested not to convene meetings unless it is essential and avoid asking field functionaries to come to the head office in a routine manner. Further, visitors should be avoided to visit the office. Efforts should be made to do the work through video conference instead of regular meetings. Departments are requested to instruct their staff to remain at home if they have symptoms like cough, cold, fever or if they are short of breath and advised them to take appropriate medical advise from government doctors. The doctor’s advice and prescription should be digitally sent to the HOD for information. The offices and employees engaged in essential/emergency services and for controlling the spread of Covid-19 will continue those duties, as assigned, till further orders, he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/govt-offices-in-state-to-function-from-tomorrow-with-33-staff/articleshow/75227789.cms||---
April 19, 2020||Bhopal||Madhya Pradesh: Congress, BJP spar over Covid-19 crisis||BHOPAL: A Twitter war has erupted between Congress and BJP over coronavirus, with stalwarts of both parties blaming each other for the crisis. CM Shivraj Singh Chouhan’s statement, holding the preceding Kamal Nath government responsible for the spread of Covid, triggered a barrage of tweets from Congress, accusing Chouhan of “mishandling” the crisis. Chouhan retorted only once: “Aap bas rajneeti karein, mein bas kaam karta rahunga (You keep doing politics, I’ll keep working).” On Wednesday, the CM had blamed “ill-preparedness” of the Kamal Nath government and its “delay” in taking action to contain the virus for the pandemic assuming alarming proportions in MP. In response, state Congress media in-charge Jitu Patwari tweeted a detailed account of steps taken by the Kamal Nath government to combat coronavirus. He pointed out that a meeting of principal secretaries was held on March 4 on the Covid-19 threat, several key events and meetings were cancelled, the Nath government ordered closure of schools, colleges, malls and cinemas halls and the assembly was adjourned on March 16 in view of the threat. “Till that time, you were calling ‘Corona’ as ‘Darona’, and making rounds of Delhi, Bengaluru, and Bhopal. It is only after taking oath as CM that you felt concerned about coronavirus and held a meeting on the pandemic,” Patwari, a former minister, said. The official handle of MP Congress joined the attack, tweeting: “If this man had suppressed his lust for power for some more time, there would not have been a single coronavirus death in MP.” The CM retorted: “You keep doing politics, I’ll keep working.” Patwari retaliated by tweeting: “What you wanted to achieve through politics, you have. Now, please save people of the state.” Former minister Sajjan Singh Verma, a close confidante of Kamal Nath, joined the battle, tweeting: “On a single day, there were 250 coronavirus patients in Indore. People can see what you are doing. There is no health minister, no minister in-charge of Indore, nor a minister for technical or medical force.” “Aap Superman ki tarah, sab kaam karna chahte hain, yeh murkhta hai (You want to do everything as if you were Superman),” Verma added.  Nath tweeted: “Whatever tall claims Shivraj ji may make on the coronavirus situation in MP, the truth is for everyone to see. Health services are in poor shape, people are not getting treatment and even seriously ill patients have to run from pillar to post to get treatment.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/cong-bjp-spar-over-covid-19-crisis/articleshow/75227791.cms||---
April 19, 2020||Delhi||A day after 31 test coronavirus positive, 10 streets in Jahangirpuri sealed||NEW DELHI: Amid resistance from local residents, North Delhi Municipal Corporation on Saturday night sealed 10 streets of C-Block in Jahangirpuri with tin sheets as a woman had died there of Covid-19 on April 5 and 31 people were found positive for the virus. The civic body’s staff had to call the SHO of the local police station after some women prevented them from doing their work. “We set about the task after receiving directions from the administration. We barricaded all 10 lanes in C-Block to contain people within the area. However, when we reached street numbers 6 and 7, women gathered and started arguing with us. We immediately called police and continued with the work till Sunday morning,” said a municipal official. A Delhi government official said that the area had been declared a containment zone on April 10, five days after the woman died. However, the local residents kept roaming on the streets and in the bylanes despite the restrictions. “The local police had installed barricades and locked a few gates of the colony. However, the locals violated the norms by opening them,” added the official. Meanwhile, north district magistrate Deepak Shinde said that screening of people had already started in C-Block and the drive would be extended to the neighbouring A and B Blocks soon. “We had taken samples of the close contacts of the old woman earlier. The family members tested positive and were sent to the quarantine facility in Narela. We even collected random samples of people in the area, but they returned negative. We have started the second round of screening during which the neighbouring blocks will also be covered,” said Shinde. Jahangirpuri has congested streets, narrow lanes and rows of houses clustered together, which can increase the chances of spread of the virus. Area councillor Poonam Bagdi said, “As soon as we got the report of the old woman, we approached the authorities to intensify the screening exercise. However, the government and the corporation took the matter lightly and only sprayed disinfectants on the main road.” “Later, I wrote to the PM. But even then only 64 people were tested. Two civic workers involved in the disinfection drive also got infected,” added Bagdi||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/a-day-after-31-test-positive-10-streets-in-jahangirpuri-sealed-/articleshow/75240327.cms||Vibha Sharma
April 19, 2020||Pune||Pune Zilla Parishad to quarantine hubbies for domestic violence||PUNE: Hubbies beware! Anybody found indulging in domestic violence would be sent to institutional quarantine. The Pune Zilla Parishad would send men to institutional quarantine for domestic violence if they do not mend their ways even after counselling. The decision was taken in view of rising complaints of domestic violence from the rural parts of the district during the lockdown. “We have come up with this order after consulting the Pune rural police. This step is required to curb complaints of domestic violence,” Ayush Prasad, the chief executive officer of Zilla Parishad (ZP), said. He said, “We have set up a women’s vigilance team comprising women members of the gram panchayat, self-help groups, Anganwadi helpers and workers, among others to keep a watch on these complaints. The committee will counsel men against whom complaints of domestic violence are made. If they do not mend their ways even after that, they will be put under institutional quarantine with the help of local police station in-charge,” said. According to the order of the ZP, the vigilance committee would be headed by the seniormost member of the gram panchayat. The committee is also supposed to take care of pregnant and lactating women, and children till the age of six. “We have also told the team members to focus on malnourished children and provide uninterrupted supply of essential goods to the villages,” Prasad said. Sandeep Patil, superintendent of police, Pune rural, said the ZP and the police were working in tandem. “We haven’t recorded a staggering increase in domestic violence cases, but we are getting four to five cases in a week. This kind of action is needed to send a stern message to the society,” he said. Vaishali Ranade, senior marriage counsellor of the special cell for women and children, Pune rural, said, “We have been getting at least eight to 10 calls related to domestic violence daily. These complaints are from all sections of the society. Some of the issues have emerged because of the lockdown, too. Since there is financial instability in the lower income class of the society, the men have become frustrated and they are venting out the frustration on their wives. So, some deterrence and out-of-the-box solution is required at the moment to address the problem.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/zp-to-quarantine-hubbies-for-domestic-violence/articleshow/75227480.cms||---
April 19, 2020||Thiruvananthapuram||Hospital staff provide food too for Covid patients||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM: With an aim to ensure a homely feeling to patients undergoing treatment for Covid-19, the staff of General Hospital in Pathanamthitta have made it part of their duty to prepare and serve food for the patients. Under a food-for-patients programme started by the staff council, the hospital employees, including healthcare givers, are providing the food for those who are under isolation and also in observation. “The staff has been given the freedom to embrace novel ideas for the benefit of others. Under the observation of the hospital dietician, we provide food to around 50 people, three times a day, through the kitchen ‘Santhwanam’,” said Dr Sajan Mathew, medical superintendent of the hospital. M C Ajith Kumar, secretary, staff council, said both vegetarian and non-vegetarian dishes are provided apart from fruits and juices. “We give them local delicacies also, for which food materials are offered by employees living nearby,” said Kumar, an optometrist at the hospital. Due to the lockdown, staff coming from distant places are now staying here. They too have benefitted from the initiative. Meanwhile, as part of Break the Chain campaign, radiographers in hospital have taken the initiative of wearing scrub suits, stitched at their own expenses, while on duty as part of infection-control measure. “After duty, they change the attire and keep the scrub suit for washing in a polythene cover. This ensures that no one gets infection while travelling and at home,” Dr Mathew said. Around nine radiographers, who also work in isolation rooms to take portable X-rays, have adopted the new dress etiquette apart from the regular overcoat to protect others, including their family members from getting any kind of infection.tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/thiruvananthapuram/hospital-staff-provide-food-too-for-covid-patients/articleshow/75226131.cms||---
April 19, 2020||Visakhapatnam||CIFT takes up study on Covid impact||Visakhapatnam: Scientists at the Central Institute of Fisheries Technology (CIFT), Visakhapatnam and Kochi centres, under the Indian Council of Agricultural Research (ICAR) is conducting a Covid-19 impact assessment study. In this regard, a comprehensive report on ‘Study of major impacts of Covid-19 on harvest and post-harvest fisheries in India’ along with mitigating advisories for the fisheries sector has been submitted to ICAR, ministry of agriculture and farmers’ welfare for effective policy implications for food and nutritional security and to keep the national food supply chains active. Dr R Raghu Prakash, principal scientist and scientist-in-charge, Visakhapatnam CIFT research centre, said their scientists from Kerala, AP, Gujarat and Maharashtra have submitted a report to the government that emphasises on strong policy support to the sector, including assistance to fisherfolk and facilitation of export and domestic marketing of fish. “CIFT has identified the macro issues, which have cropped up during the lockdown due to restrictions in gathering, movement of fishermen and processing workers, shutdown of harbours, markets and constraints in input and service delivery across the value chain,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/visakhapatnam/cift-takes-up-study-on-covid-impact/articleshow/75226105.cms||---
April 19, 2020||Bhubaneswar||BJD MP Acharya catches up on reading, yoga in Delhi residence||BHUBANESWAR: BJD Rajya Sabha member Prasanna Acharya has been using the lockdown to practise yoga, read books and listen to retro Hindi film music while staying in touch with people over phone. “I have just started reading ‘The Age of Nationalism and Reform, 1850-1890’ by Norman Rich. Before that, I read ‘Savarkar: The True Story of the Father of Hindutva’ by Vaibhav Purandare,” said Acharya over phone from his New Delhi residence. “I was planning to return to my native place, Bargarh, after the Parliament session. But the evening flight I had booked the day before the lockdown started was cancelled. So, I had to stay back in New Delhi,” he said. Since one has to stay indoors, Acharya said, he is trying to be more disciplined. “I had stopped yoga for some time. Now I am doing some asanas and meditation twice a daily of an hour each,” he said. The MP’s daily routine starts with a yoga followed by a morning walk. “I read newspapers, including The Times of India, daily besides scanning Odia newspapers on the internet,” he said. After a light breakfast, Acharya said he speaks to people in his locality and colleagues over phone. “I also speak to my family members and brothers every day. The afternoon is for reading books. Earlier, I did not get so much time to read. But now there is plenty of time,” he said. “I have completed reading Biju Patnaik Legislative Biography by Ramakant Das and a book on socialist leader Kisan Patnaik recently,” he said. “I am planning to start writing,” he said but declined to elaborate. “I have also read ‘Making of the Constitution of India’ published by the Lok Sabha recently. “On and off, I am also doing gardening. I clean up the garden on most days,” he said. After a light dinner, Acharya listens to old Hindi songs. “I have a Carvaan music player with a collection of around 6,000 songs from the 1960s to the 1980s,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhubaneswar/bjd-mp-acharya-catches-up-on-reading-yoga-in-delhi-residence/articleshow/75225240.cms||---
April 19, 2020||Goa||Cops: No pillion on bikes, only two per car from Monday||PANAJI: With the state government deciding to open industries from Monday, Goa police have decided to strictly implement social distancing measures even for private vehicles. No pillion riders will be permitted on two-wheelers, and in four-wheelers, no co-passenger will be allowed on the front seat, police said. Only two persons can travel in a single car, the non-driver compulsorily occupying the rear seat. Speaking to TOI, SP Shobhit Saxena said that police will not be strict on movement of vehicles in the state after April 20, but will focus on social distancing. “We will fine those not adhering to social distancing while travelling in private vehicles,” he said. Saxena also said that as Section 144 CrPC will continue to be in force till May 3, the police would act against public gatherings of more than four persons. He also said that weddings and funerals would be regulated by district magistrates. “There will be a strict ban on sale of liquor, gutka, tobacco, etc,” he said, adding that spitting in public places is also a punishable offence. Police, meanwhile, are keeping watch at jetties as fishing activites have restarted. “We are creating awareness about social distancing and ensuring that it is maintained.” On Saturday, IGP Jaspal Singh, along with SP (North) and SDPO (Bicholim) visited the border check posts in the district, and instructed staff there to ensure that only vehicles from permitted categories are allowed into the state, and to be alert. In view of the Covid-19 cases in neighbouring Belagavi, the checkposts at Keri and Anmod ghat are key to the success of the lockdown, he said. “We also visited neighbouring villages to see that there is no movement of people from the Maharashtra side,” Singh said. The state government will monitor the movement of vehicles from outside the state in Goa through an app.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/cops-no-pillion-on-bikes-only-two-per-car-from-monday/articleshow/75227804.cms||---
April 19, 2020||Hyderabad||Don’t lay off staff: KTR to industry body||HYDERABAD: Industries should not lay off any employees and should instead adopt other austerity measures to tide over tough phase on account of lockdown, industries and IT minister KT Rama Rao told industry captains on Saturday. KTR, who was addressing members of apex industry body Confederation of Indian Industry’s Telangana chapter through video conferencing, said only about 25% of state’s economy is still operational and post lockdown, economic growth may happen in spurts. He said even after lockdown is lifted, one of the biggest challenges will be to rebuild the confidence of workforce. “Social distancing will be new norm and industries have to make changes in the way they operate,” he said. Urging CII to work on vision document on new business opportunities in post Covid-19 era, he urged its members to explore opportunities in healthcare and biotech sectors given the renewed focus on them.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/dont-lay-off-staff-ktr-to-industry-body/articleshow/75227025.cms||---
April 19, 2020||Surat||BJP councillor in Valsad caught boozing with friends||Surat: Police arrested five persons including a BJP councillor in Pardi municipality of Valsad on Friday for allegedly consuming liquor. The accused were found boozing in a mango farm by a team of Pardi police during patrolling.Police arrested Jignesh Patel, BJP councillor and his four friends and also recovered two bottles of whisky, 180 ml each, from their possession. The accused were produced in the court on Saturday and were released on bail.While on routine patrol the team noticed some movement in a mango farm near Poniya School Faliya lake. Upon checking, cops police found the accused sitting with the liquor bottles, water and a few eatables too.“It was an elaborate arrangement by the accused along with liquor even during lockdown. Along with prohibition laws the accused has also violated lockdown orders,” said an officer from Pardi police station.Investigation revealed that the accused had brought the liquor bottles from Daman a few months ago for personal use at some social function in family, police informed.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/bjp-councillor-in-valsad-caught-boozing-with-friends/articleshow/75227006.cms||---
April 19, 2020||Hubballi||Four travel in police jeep to evade authorities, booked||KARWAR: Police sub-inspector Shivanand, who works in Hubballi, sent his official jeep to Gokarna at the behest of his contractor friend, so that the contractor could get his backhoe loader and some machinery back here. Four people were travelling in the jeep, and the Gokarna police said that none of them were police personnel. The members of Citizen Committee in Torke village near Gokarna, stopped the vehicle on the suspicion that the people inside the jeep were not policemen. When the passengers in the jeep were questioned, they said that they were not police personnel. A backhoe loader and other machinery belonging to a contractor were stuck in Gokarna since the lockdown, and they were sent to get them back to Hubballi. . The Uttara Kannada district administration has banned the entry of people into the district, from all neighbouring districts, including Dharwad, where there are many Covid-19 cases. According to the people in the jeep, one of whom is a backhoe loader driver, Shivanand asked them to take the police jeep to Gokarna, which is about 160 km away from Hubballi, to create an impression that police personnel are inside the jeep, so that they can cross the Dharwad-Uttara Kannada border.  Villagers informed the local police about the issue. On investigating the matter, the local police found out that the jeep belonged to the forest protection squad of the police department in Dharwad district. Gokarna police have registered a case against Gouse Hanagi Abdul Razak and Imtiyaz Khaaja Hussein, who are both residents of Hubballi and Muttappa Dhanapal Patil of Sasalatti village in Bagalkot and Prabhuling Ramesh Neelan of Teradal, under various sections of the IPC. Locals expressed their anger against the police for not mentioning the name of the sub-inspector who sent these people in a police jeep. They demanded that the name of the sub-inspector and contractor should be included in the FIR, for criminal conspiracy to cheat the government and defy the law, instead of making the backhoe loader driver and workers the scapegoats. Locals alleged that the police are trying to cover up the matter to save the sub-inspector, but police said that more names will be included in the FIR, if their direct involvement is found in the case.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hubballi/4-travel-in-police-jeep-to-evade-authorities-booked/articleshow/75226113.cms||---
April 19, 2020||Visakhapatnam||No positive Covid-19 cases at ENC so far||Visakhapatnam: The Eastern Naval Command (ENC) on Saturday stated that no Covid-19 cases have been reported at ENC so far. None of the other commands except Western Naval Command (WNC) in Mumbai — which has reported 26 asymptomatic positive cases among its sailors at INS Angre, one of its shore establishments — has reported any positive cases. The ENC said it undertook precautionary measures early and any contact with civilian population outside the naval base has been bare minimum. “We started taking precautions at the start of March. Personnel coming from other ports or outside the base were put on a 14-day quarantine and were given clearance to join duty only after they were found healthy. We have not conducted any joint naval exercises since March,” an ENC spokesperson told STOI. He said everyone wears cloth masks stitched in-house. “For physical fitness, sports or individual level activities are continuing while maintaining social distancing. The ships, submarines, and aircraft cannot be left unmanned and require maintenance. Only the minimum required essential service personnel are on board the ships or at the dockyard,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/visakhapatnam/no-positive-covid-19-cases-at-enc-so-far/articleshow/75226135.cms||Sulogna Mehta
April 19, 2020||Pune||Duo held for attacking doctors of private hospital in Pune||PUNE: The Samarth police on Friday night arrested two men on the charge of attacking two doctors over a dispute on visiting a patient at his residence. The incident occurred at Matruseva Hospital in Nana Peth around 4pm on Friday. The police have identified those arrested as Satish Ahuja (40) and Laxman Bhambani (59) from Ambedkar Road. The action was taken following a complaint lodged by one of the aggrieved doctor, Kishor Kumar Shah. “The duo met Shah at the hospital and asked him to visit their ailing uncle at the latter’s residence. The doctor demanded a fee of Rs 1,000 for making the visit, following which the suspects entered into an argument and assaulted Shah,” senior inspector Balkrishna Kadam from Samarth police said. “The duo threw money at the doctor and abused his other colleague. The duo damaged a glass door in a fit of rage before exiting the hospital premises,” Kadam said. When contacted, Shah said his lawyer had advised him to not talk to media persons before disconnecting the call.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/duo-held-for-attacking-doctors-of-pvt-hospital/articleshow/75227485.cms||---
April 19, 2020||Bhopal||Madhya Pradesh: Covid-19 count goes -ve in 7 districts, including Indore||BHOPAL: The count of corona-positive cases in Madhya Pradesh went into the negative in hotspot Indore and six other districts on Saturday. The bulletin released by directorate of health showed an increase of 93 cases (49 reported on Friday midnight and 44 on Saturday) – a significant drop for the second day from the alarming high of 391 recorded on Thursday. MP’s Covid-19 count on Saturday, according to the bulletin, stood at 1402. However, the bulletin also showed a drop of 17 cases in six districts – Ujjain, Gwalior, Chhindwara, Morena, Khandwa and Raisen. Indore’s bulletin recorded nine new cases, a surprising slump after Thursday’s high of 244. Even more surprising, the total went down. The health bulletin issued by Indore chief medical and health officer (CMHO) on Friday showed 892 Covid-19 patients in Indore. But on Saturday -- after addition of nine others -- the tally displayed in the bulletin was 890. “We had erroneously included 11patients detected in other districts. We have corrected the numbers today,” CMHO Dr Pravin Jadia said. The bulletin recorded another death, taking the city’s toll to 47. As per the latest state health bulletin, Gwalior has only two cases but the bulletin of April 17 noted six. Asked about this, Gwalior collector Kauslendra Vikram Singh said, “Six Covid-19 patients have been reported in the district so far. All of them recovered and have been discharged from hospital.” 432 containment localities in 26 districts across stateUjjain had the biggest drop – eight less cases between April 17 and 18. The bulletin recorded 31 cases on Friday and 23 on Saturday. Collector Shashank Mishra said, “There are 27 cases in our district, plus a patient of Indore has come here. There are three other patients who are residents of Nagda town in Ujjain and tested positive in Ratlam. They are admitted there and are being counted in Ratlam’s tally.” Chhindwara’s count has been halved from four on Friday to two on Saturday. District collector Shrinivas Sharma told TOI that four Covid-19 patients have been reported in Chhindwara so far. “One of them died, and the sample of another patient has been sent for tests again as he has completed 14 days’ treatment and has improved. The two other patients are undergoing treatment and are stable,” he added. The April 18 health bulletin showed one less patient each in Morena, Raisen and Khandwa districts. Asked about this, director of health services, Sudam Khade, said, “In Gwalior there are two patients. Some patients are tested positive in screening also.” But Khade could not explain why there was a drop on April 18. A very senior health official said that it could be due to “reconciliation of repeat testing” — meaning that the second round of tests of Covid-patients who have been in treatment for 14 days is sometimes included erroneously in the new positive cases. Saturday’s bulleting added five cases in Jabalpur, taking its tally to 21. This includes one person from Indore, who was shifted to Jabalpur jail and tested positive. MP now has 432 containment zones in 26 districts with 24 lakh people living behind barricades.TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/432-containment-localities-in-26-districts-across-state/articleshow/75227800.cms||---
April 19, 2020||Visakhapatnam||Disabled people at high risk of infection||Visakhapatnam: The lockdown aimed at containing the spread of Covid-19 has rendered many social groups vulnerable. While the plight of stranded migrants, senior citizens and people with disabilities has been at least discussed, disabled people and their problems have largely been left out of the conversation. Meanwhile, those who are visually impaired, hearing impaired or have physical disabilities are miserable during the lockdown fighting panic, anxiety, fear and depression. Many disabled people are at a higher risk if they contract Covid-19. For example, it is common for those with spinal cord injuries to have compromised pulmonary functions or those with muscular dystrophy to have lower diaphragm function leading to lung problems making them particularly vulnerable to the novel coronavirus. Further, people with disabilities such as wheelchair-users or bed-ridden patients have to depend on caregivers. Now, with no one to take care of them as caregivers are refusing to continue work, the lives of such disabled people have become very difficult. As a result, many people with disabilities are unable to take precautions like washing their hands repeatedly. People with disabilities also feel that they are more susceptible to viruses and other ailments. Sai Padma who runs Global Aid— an organisation for physically disabled people— said, “I am a polio survivor and have been suffering from spinal scoliosis which has affected my lungs. I fear that if I get sick, my husband won’t even be able to take me to the hospital without seeking help from people to lift me from my wheelchair.” Most disabled people are unable to take all the precautions. Prasad, who suffers from severe arthritis and psoriasis said, “Even though I wash my hands 20 times a day, I immediately have to touch my wheelchair to move. I am confused and don’t know what to do in the absence of a caregiver.” Dilip Patro, who is wheelchair bound and runs a rehabilitation centre for people with disabilities, said, “For a person with a physical disability, social distancing is impossible due to dependence on others.” “We need to think about policies to ensure that persons with disabilities are provided basic facilities in case their caregiver is quarantined,” Dilip added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/visakhapatnam/disabled-people-at-high-risk-of-infection/articleshow/75226177.cms||Reshma Jain
April 19, 2020||Visakhapatnam||Parcel trains will carry Andhra Pradesh mangoes to Delhi from today||VISAKHAPATNAM: The Waltair division of East Coast Railway (ECoR), has been trying to address the transportation hurdle of essential commodities. Since the beginning of lockdown it has transported 1,000 rakes of essential commodities across the country. Now, the division is preparing to operate special parcel trains to transport mangoes from north coastal AP to New Delhi. Adarsh Nagar and Azadapur Mandi in New Delhi are two key destinations for the mangoes from the region. The mango merchants will transport the mangoes from Vizianagaram railway station to Delhi. Every year, the division operates special trains to transport mangoes from the Vizianagaram station to Delhi. This year, the railways has arranged a special train of six parcel vans, each with a capacity 28 tonne, to carry mangoes every alternative day starting April 19. Last year, the division operated seven rakes for mangoes. “We will start operating the first manago parcel train from north coastal AP to New Delhi from Vizianagaram station on Sunday. We will continue this service during this lockdown period. We are ready to operate as many trains needed depending on the demand from the mango merchants across the north coastal AP,” said G Suneel Kumar, senior divisional commercial manager, Waltair division. Apart from this, the division has transported 278 rakes of coal, 44 rakes of steel, 88 rakes of container, 30 rakes of food grains and fertilizers, Kumar added. Parcel trains are being operated as special service during Covid-19 emergency. The railways have operated parcel trains to transport medicines, medical equipment, groceries, eggs, vegetables and fruits, Kumar added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/visakhapatnam/parcel-trains-will-carry-ap-mangoes-to-delhi-from-today/articleshow/75226157.cms||V Kamalakara Rao
April 19, 2020||Mumbai||Maharashtra: Now, farm fresh greens delivered at doorstep||NASHIK/PUNE/NAVI MUMBAI: Nandini Chhabria of Breach Candy gets a message from a farmers’ group from Nashik informing her that fresh, packed vegetables and fruits would be delivered in the next few hours. GPS-based location services help her track the farmers bringing the supply to her doorstep. For three weeks now, residents of nearly 20 housing societies in Chhabria’s neigbourhood have not stepped outside to buy vegetables. “I came to know of this farmers’ group from the municipal ward official. Prices are very reasonable,” she says. Chhabria likes that the farmers are tech-savvy and professional. “They send us a message a few hours before delivery and also send us their live location,” she adds. Using WhatsApp, special apps and Facebook, farmers’ groups from Nashik and Pune connect directly with citizens of Mumbai, Pune and Nashik. They prepare boxes containing 8-10kg of fruits and vegetables, enough for a family for a week, and deliver at the doorstep. Mukul Mehra, president of Nepean Sea Road Residents’ Association in Mumbai, says, “This (facility) helps us during the lockdown and is safe as there are no middlemen.” Most farmers already sell their produce at weekly markets. “Now, they supply to residents of around two dozen buildings in the Nepean Sea Road area. The chairperson of the society directly contacts farmers for bulk orders,” Mehra adds. Around 12-15 groups from Nashik supply 6-12 tonnes of vegetables per week directly to residential housing societies in Mumbai and Thane. Ward officials in Mumbai, with help from Maharashtra State Agriculture Marketing Board (MSAMB), have circulated the contact numbers of farmer groups. Mandhukar Kangane, who belongs to a group of 250 farmers from Sinnar in Nashik, says they are connected to over 50 housing societies in Mumbai. Kangane says a basket of 11kg vegetables is priced at Rs 500. Sahyadri Farms is a Nashik company with over 6,000 farmers. “We deliver 300 boxes daily, an average of 8kg, to housing societies in Mumbai, Nashik and Pune,” says Vilas Shinde, chairman, Sahyadri Farms. PCMC, too, has launched ‘farmers at your door-step’ initiative where fresh vegetables and fruits from Pune, Sangli, Nashik, Satara loaded in tempos are being delivered at housing societies in Navi Mumbai to encourage residents to stay at home. A civic officer has been entrusted the task of coordinating with farmers and residents.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/now-farm-fresh-greens-delivered-at-doorstep/articleshow/75227055.cms||Tushar Pawar
April 19, 2020||Nagpur||Nagpur-born doctor dies of Covid-19 in UK||NAGPUR: Paediatrician Dr Rajesh Kalraiya, a Nagpurian who was working in UK from the past 40 years, died of Covid-19 on April 15. He is the first doctor of Nagpur origin to have died due to Covid-19 while serving patients. Dr Kalraiya completed his MBBS from GMCH Nagpur in 1968-69. President of British Association of Physicians of Indian Origin (BAPIO) Dr Ramesh Mehta, who too is a Nagpurian, told TOI that Kalraiya, 69, was unmarried. “It is very traumatic to share such sad news about a colleague and friend who had graduated from the same medical college — GMCH Nagpur,” said Dr Mehta. “Rajesh was dear to his close colleagues. Medicine was his life. He used to travel a lot in UK and visit various hospitals to treat children,” he said. Being unmarried, Dr Kalraiya had no immediate family in England. None of his distant relatives in Nagpur and Jabalpur (MP) could neither visit him during his ailment nor attend his last rites. “He was the eldest cousin for us. Service to patients was his passion. Even if he was nearly 70 years old, he chose to serve patients during coronavirus emergency in England. It’s really sad that none of us could attend to him during his last days,” said Yuvaraj Gadhval, cousin of Dr Kalraiya. It is learnt the Kalraiyas have a house in Itwari but it could not be traced. Meanwhile, BAPIO has launched a new research forum to analyse the higher death rates due to Covid-19 among Indian-origin and ethnic minority health care professionals. “It is the right time for us to launch this new research forum to analyse the differentiating factors behind the significantly higher mortality among health care professionals, even though they make up just 20% of the National Health Service (NHS),” said Dr Mehta. Dr Mehta further said that at least 300 doctors of Nagpur-origin are working in UK and are active members of BAPIO. “All of them are tirelessly working to save people from coronavirus pandemic,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/nagpur-born-doc-dies-of-covid-19-in-uk/articleshow/75227491.cms||Chaitanya Deshpande
April 19, 2020||Kozhikode||Days after recovery, man dies||Malappuram: An 85-year-old man who had recovered from Covid-19, died at Government Medical College, Manjeri on Saturday. He was under treatment for several other ailments as well, sources said. Nechithadayan Veerankutty, a native of Poonthanam near Keezhattur in Perinthalmanna, had tested negative for coronvirus infection three times consecutively.  Medical authorities clarified the death was not due to coronavirus infection, but other age-related ailments. Veerankuttty was admitted to the medical college hospital for treatment of viral pneumonia on March 31 and he tested positive for Covid-19 on April 2. After some days of treatment at the hospital, he tested negative for the virus infection in two consecutive tests conducted on April 7 and April 10. He was shifted from isolation ward of the hospital to step-down ICU on April 11. After a couple of days, he suffered a heart attack. While continuing treatment at the hospital, another Covid test was conducted on him, and for the third time he tested negative. Doctors found that the patient was also suffering from a kidney injury and he underwent dialysis. He was later put on to ventilator and though his health condition improved he started suffering from high fever on April 16 and a critical care team started treatment on him for urinal issues. In a detailed test conducted on April 17, medical team found that the patient was suffering from septicemia and multi-organ dysfunction syndrome. The burial was held at Kondiparambu Jumamasjid near Keezhattur in the evening without following Covid-19 protocol. Veerankutty had got infected with coronavirus from his 45-year-old son who returned from Saudi Arabia on March 11 after Umrah pilgrimage.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kozhikode/days-after-recovery-man-dies/articleshow/75226213.cms||---
April 19, 2020||Pune||PMPML warns staffers, duty mandatory||Pune: The PMPML has warned its employees of suspension and dismissal if they fail to report on duty during the lockdown. Sources in the Pune Mahanagar Parivahan Mahamandal Limited (PMPML) said many employees were not reporting on duty despite intimations because of Covid-19 fear. “We are currently running Pushpak buses to transport bodies of those who die of Covid-19. Earlier there was a problem as the drivers meant for the service, were not ready. However, a duty plan has been prepared for the employees including drivers, conductors, maintenance staff and checkers on a rotational basis. The warning is for all as this is an emergency service and those who are called for duty must appear,” PMPML traffic manager Anant Waghmare told TOI.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/pmpml-warns-staffers-duty-mandatory/articleshow/75227488.cms||Joy Sengupta
April 19, 2020||Navi-mumbai||Maharashtra: Now, farm fresh greens delivered at doorstep||NASHIK/PUNE/NAVI MUMBAI: Nandini Chhabria of Breach Candy gets a message from a farmers’ group from Nashik informing her that fresh, packed vegetables and fruits would be delivered in the next few hours. GPS-based location services help her track the farmers bringing the supply to her doorstep. For three weeks now, residents of nearly 20 housing societies in Chhabria’s neigbourhood have not stepped outside to buy vegetables. “I came to know of this farmers’ group from the municipal ward official. Prices are very reasonable,” she says. Chhabria likes that the farmers are tech-savvy and professional. “They send us a message a few hours before delivery and also send us their live location,” she adds. Using WhatsApp, special apps and Facebook, farmers’ groups from Nashik and Pune connect directly with citizens of Mumbai, Pune and Nashik. They prepare boxes containing 8-10kg of fruits and vegetables, enough for a family for a week, and deliver at the doorstep. Mukul Mehra, president of Nepean Sea Road Residents’ Association in Mumbai, says, “This (facility) helps us during the lockdown and is safe as there are no middlemen.” Most farmers already sell their produce at weekly markets. “Now, they supply to residents of around two dozen buildings in the Nepean Sea Road area. The chairperson of the society directly contacts farmers for bulk orders,” Mehra adds. Around 12-15 groups from Nashik supply 6-12 tonnes of vegetables per week directly to residential housing societies in Mumbai and Thane. Ward officials in Mumbai, with help from Maharashtra State Agriculture Marketing Board (MSAMB), have circulated the contact numbers of farmer groups. Mandhukar Kangane, who belongs to a group of 250 farmers from Sinnar in Nashik, says they are connected to over 50 housing societies in Mumbai. Kangane says a basket of 11kg vegetables is priced at Rs 500. Sahyadri Farms is a Nashik company with over 6,000 farmers. “We deliver 300 boxes daily, an average of 8kg, to housing societies in Mumbai, Nashik and Pune,” says Vilas Shinde, chairman, Sahyadri Farms. PCMC, too, has launched ‘farmers at your door-step’ initiative where fresh vegetables and fruits from Pune, Sangli, Nashik, Satara loaded in tempos are being delivered at housing societies in Navi Mumbai to encourage residents to stay at home. A civic officer has been entrusted the task of coordinating with farmers and residents.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/navi-mumbai/now-farm-fresh-greens-delivered-at-doorstep/articleshow/75230721.cms||Tushar Pawar
April 19, 2020||Thiruvananthapuram||It’s my call and I stand by it: IT secretary on Sprinklr deal||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM: Even as opposition parties continue to bay for the blood of chief minister Pinarayi Vijayan in the alleged data security breach in a contract the government had signed with a US company –– Sprinklr, state IT secretary M Sivasankar has claimed sole responsibility for the agreement and defended the same. Sivasankar, who is also the officer on special duty attached to Chief Minister’s Office, told television channels on Saturday that the deal with Sprinklr was his call in the capacity as IT secretary. “It was my call and I stand by it. I had examined all aspects of the deal. Following the State Disaster Management Authority’s projection that Covid cases in the state may grow alarmingly, there was a general decision that a robust technology platform was required to address a crisis of such a magnitude. It was my personal responsibility to choose the technology platform using which we can access actionable data for crisis management,” Sivasankar said. The senior official said that chief minister Vijayan, who is also in charge of the IT portfolio, had given him permission to go ahead with the plans to use the service of Sprinklr run by a Malayali entrepreneur based in the United States. “There was no need seek legal opinion for placing a purchase order. Mine was a professional decision. I am open to correct it if I am proven wrong. Now the issue has reached the court. Let the court examine it all and reach a conclusion,” he said. Sivasankar said the service of the company was offered for free and there were no government agencies in the state that could offer such high accuracy data analysis for the management of data pertaining to Covid suspect persons. “Since the Covid situation in the state had started getting better, it might look simple now. But when confronted with an alarming projection, the decision to accept the offer for data processing at zero cost was apropos,” he said. Meanwhile, KPCC president Mullappally Ramachandran said the magnitude of the alleged scam behind the Sprinklr deal was bigger than that of the controversial SNC Lavalin deal. The chief minister should resign and face investigation, he said. He further said that everyone wanted to know as to who brought the Sprinklr company to India and if it had any connections in Bengaluru. K S Sabarinathan, MLA said chief minister Vijayan cannot absolve himself from the controversy just because his secretary claimed that only he was responsible for the agreement. “It appears strange that such important decisions would be taken only in the official level,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/thiruvananthapuram/its-my-call-and-i-stand-by-it-it-secretary-on-sprinklr-deal/articleshow/75226163.cms||---
April 19, 2020||Delhi||4-year-old to elderly, Delhi cops bring birthday cheers to all during lockdown||NEW DELHI: As Roshina Gautam woke up on Saturday, she didn’t expect her 71st birthday to be celebrated during the lockdown. However, she was in for a surprise after she heard police sirens in her Greater Kailash-I neighbourhood. A group of police officers were outside her door with a potted plant, singing happy birthday for her. However, Fatehpur Beri police station saw an even more touching scene the same day, when the cops threw a surprise birthday party for the four-year-old daughter of a labourer. The labourer’s family is among 100 such needy ones that come to the station for their meals. The SHO arranged a cake and a party cap for the child. The girl sat down with her friends and all of them ate lunch together while maintaining social distancing. The community kitchen at the police station has been providing meals to the labourers and slum dwellers in the area. The judges of Delhi high court have been contributing for the kitchen as well. When Gautam’s neighbours saw the cops outside her residence, they thought there had been a robbery, or someone had tested positive for Covid-19. However, when they realised it was a birthday celebration, a smile was seen on everyone’s faces. “I was very touched that the officers came in the middle of their hectic schedule to wish me. Once they sang the birthday song, all the neighbours also joined in.” said Gautam. Along with the septuagenarian, Delhi Police spread cheer by celebrating the birthday of a 15-year old boy and the 25th marriage anniversary of a couple in the same way.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/4-year-old-to-elderly-cops-bring-birthday-cheers-to-all/articleshow/75227807.cms||Sakshi Chand
April 19, 2020||Nashik||Maharashtra: Now, farm fresh greens delivered at doorstep||NASHIK/PUNE/NAVI MUMBAI: Nandini Chhabria of Breach Candy gets a message from a farmers’ group from Nashik informing her that fresh, packed vegetables and fruits would be delivered in the next few hours. GPS-based location services help her track the farmers bringing the supply to her doorstep. For three weeks now, residents of nearly 20 housing societies in Chhabria’s neigbourhood have not stepped outside to buy vegetables. “I came to know of this farmers’ group from the municipal ward official. Prices are very reasonable,” she says. Chhabria likes that the farmers are tech-savvy and professional. “They send us a message a few hours before delivery and also send us their live location,” she adds. Using WhatsApp, special apps and Facebook, farmers’ groups from Nashik and Pune connect directly with citizens of Mumbai, Pune and Nashik. They prepare boxes containing 8-10kg of fruits and vegetables, enough for a family for a week, and deliver at the doorstep. Mukul Mehra, president of Nepean Sea Road Residents’ Association in Mumbai, says, “This (facility) helps us during the lockdown and is safe as there are no middlemen.” Most farmers already sell their produce at weekly markets. “Now, they supply to residents of around two dozen buildings in the Nepean Sea Road area. The chairperson of the society directly contacts farmers for bulk orders,” Mehra adds. Around 12-15 groups from Nashik supply 6-12 tonnes of vegetables per week directly to residential housing societies in Mumbai and Thane. Ward officials in Mumbai, with help from Maharashtra State Agriculture Marketing Board (MSAMB), have circulated the contact numbers of farmer groups. Mandhukar Kangane, who belongs to a group of 250 farmers from Sinnar in Nashik, says they are connected to over 50 housing societies in Mumbai. Kangane says a basket of 11kg vegetables is priced at Rs 500. Sahyadri Farms is a Nashik company with over 6,000 farmers. “We deliver 300 boxes daily, an average of 8kg, to housing societies in Mumbai, Nashik and Pune,” says Vilas Shinde, chairman, Sahyadri Farms. PCMC, too, has launched ‘farmers at your door-step’ initiative where fresh vegetables and fruits from Pune, Sangli, Nashik, Satara loaded in tempos are being delivered at housing societies in Navi Mumbai to encourage residents to stay at home. A civic officer has been entrusted the task of coordinating with farmers and residents.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/now-farm-fresh-greens-delivered-at-doorstep/articleshow/75230720.cms||Tushar Pawar
April 19, 2020||Pune||Maharashtra: Now, farm fresh greens delivered at doorstep||NASHIK/PUNE/NAVI MUMBAI: Nandini Chhabria of Breach Candy gets a message from a farmers’ group from Nashik informing her that fresh, packed vegetables and fruits would be delivered in the next few hours. GPS-based location services help her track the farmers bringing the supply to her doorstep. For three weeks now, residents of nearly 20 housing societies in Chhabria’s neigbourhood have not stepped outside to buy vegetables. “I came to know of this farmers’ group from the municipal ward official. Prices are very reasonable,” she says. Chhabria likes that the farmers are tech-savvy and professional. “They send us a message a few hours before delivery and also send us their live location,” she adds. Using WhatsApp, special apps and Facebook, farmers’ groups from Nashik and Pune connect directly with citizens of Mumbai, Pune and Nashik. They prepare boxes containing 8-10kg of fruits and vegetables, enough for a family for a week, and deliver at the doorstep. Mukul Mehra, president of Nepean Sea Road Residents’ Association in Mumbai, says, “This (facility) helps us during the lockdown and is safe as there are no middlemen.” Most farmers already sell their produce at weekly markets. “Now, they supply to residents of around two dozen buildings in the Nepean Sea Road area. The chairperson of the society directly contacts farmers for bulk orders,” Mehra adds. Around 12-15 groups from Nashik supply 6-12 tonnes of vegetables per week directly to residential housing societies in Mumbai and Thane. Ward officials in Mumbai, with help from Maharashtra State Agriculture Marketing Board (MSAMB), have circulated the contact numbers of farmer groups. Mandhukar Kangane, who belongs to a group of 250 farmers from Sinnar in Nashik, says they are connected to over 50 housing societies in Mumbai. Kangane says a basket of 11kg vegetables is priced at Rs 500. Sahyadri Farms is a Nashik company with over 6,000 farmers. “We deliver 300 boxes daily, an average of 8kg, to housing societies in Mumbai, Nashik and Pune,” says Vilas Shinde, chairman, Sahyadri Farms. PCMC, too, has launched ‘farmers at your door-step’ initiative where fresh vegetables and fruits from Pune, Sangli, Nashik, Satara loaded in tempos are being delivered at housing societies in Navi Mumbai to encourage residents to stay at home. A civic officer has been entrusted the task of coordinating with farmers and residents.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/now-farm-fresh-greens-delivered-at-doorstep/articleshow/75230745.cms||Tushar Pawar
April 19, 2020||Hyderabad||Covid-19: Khairatabad and Charminar areas top containment zones’ charter||HYDERABAD: As much as 69% of the total 146 containment zones (hotspots) in Greater Hyderabad limits were set up in two municipal zones alone. Officials said Khairatabad has the highest containment zones in the city with 51 hotspots followed by Charminar, which has 49 clusters as on April 17. While Khairatabad, Mehdipatnam, Karwan, Jubilee Hills and Goshamahal circles fall under Khairatabad zone, Charminar, Malakpet, Falaknuma, Santoshnagar, Chandrayangutta and Rajendranagar come under Charminar zone. Among the six municipal zones, LB Nagar has only two hotspots, with least affected Covid-19 positive cases. “Of the total containment zones, 12 places are most vulnerable as they had reported more than six cases in a zone. Charminar zone has eight such places of 12, three in Khairatabad and one in Serilingampally zone. While 85 hotspots have reported only one case, 49 hotspots have reported two to five positive cases in one containment zone,” a senior official of GHMC told STOI An additional commissioner said once quarantine period is over and the infected persons are discharged, GHMC is withdrawing containment zone restrictions. “Fifteen zones have been withdrawn in the last three days. For instance, some containment spots in Charminar zone have been lifted and five more added due to new cases,” he said.  Apart from the ministers and top officials, chief minister K Chandrasekhar Rao himself is reviewing the situation in Hyderabad as more than 60 coronavirus cases had been reported from Greater Hyderabad jurisdiction. Among urban local bodies other than GHMC, Nizamabad has 17 containment zones in the district with 11 in Nizamabad municipal corporation limits, while the rest of the zones are spread out in Bodhan, Armoor and Bhimgal. The second biggest city in Telangana, Warangal has 15 hotspots, while Rangareddy district has 10 (other than GHMC) hotspots. The government has also declared five locations in Jalpally, one each in Manikonda, Turkayamjal, Tukkuguda, Bandlaguda Jagir and Narsingi as containment zones. The government has clearly directed the municipal commissioners and zonal commissioners to ensure that people living in these containment zones stay indoors at all times. Municipal administration minister KT Rama Rao has directed officials that essentials such as milk, vegetables and medicines should be delivered at the doorsteps of residents.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/khairatabad-charminar-areas-top-containment-zones-charter/articleshow/75227044.cms||Koride Mahesh
April 19, 2020||Hyderabad||Focus on travel history of primary contacts||Hyderabad: A day after Sindhi Colony, Mettuguda and Neredmet crossroads areas were barricaded following coronavirus positive cases, 13 persons called officials voluntarily to tell that they had coronavirus-related symptoms. Seven persons had even requested for an ambulance. Those who tested positive have been sent to Gandhi Hospital. “The primary contacts of the people have been shifted to a government quarantine centre. They will be sent back to their houses only after their test results are out,” said officials. While probing the primary contacts, emphasis was on their travel history. Officials are now busy looking into the primary contacts of eight persons who tested positive on Saturday and 31 others who had tested positive on Friday. Residents from Sindhi Colony said the GHMC officials checked them for any coronavirus-like symptoms. “They inspected out locality and checked if any of us have fever and other symptoms. They created a WhatsApp group and have asked us to air our grievances in that group,” said Prakash Thakur, a resident. A resident of Aparna Hill Park falling in Chandanagar containment zone said multi-disciplinary teams had enquired with residential welfare associations (RWAs) after probing the primary contacts. “After enquiring with the RWAs, they also asked the primary contacts several questions and on travel history of the persons who had tested positive and every day activity of the primary contact, ” said the resident. While the primary contacts were being probed, gated communities where people were instructed to be home quarantined were also inspected by GHMC officials. “Sixteen foreign returnees who were home quarantined in Meenakshi Sky Lounge, Hitex Road, have tested negative,” said mayor Bonthu Rammohan.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/focus-on-travel-history-of-primary-contacts/articleshow/75227059.cms||Nabinder Bommala
April 19, 2020||Bareilly||10-month-old among seven new Covid-19 cases in M’bad, tally now 37||Bareilly: The number of novel coronavirus cases in Moradabad rose to 37 on Saturday with seven new cases, including a 10-month-old boy and his five-year-old sister, being reported since Friday night. According to sources, except a 63-year-old woman, all the other new cases are linked to Tablighi Jamaat members. Keeping in view the rising number of cases, 10 more areas in Moradabad city were declared as hotspots. The city has a total of 18 hotspots at present — Lalnagari, Tabela, Barvalan, Chamunda Mandir Barvalan, Khijaravali mosque, Kunwarshah lane, Lal School lane, Garyovali mosque in Galshaheed, Aysha mosque Azadnagar, Islam Road Asalatpura, Tambakuvalan, Nawabpura, Maqbara police outpost area, Ulal Bagh, Karula, Peergaib, Peerjada and Naivali mosque. Chief medical officer Dr MC Garg said that the two children who tested positive are the relatives of a couple who had already tested positive for the virus. Meanwhile, the parents of the children tested negative for Covid-19. The four Tablighi Jamaat members who tested positive are a native of Jaunpur district, one from Assam and two from Jammu and Kashmir. All of them were staying at Mugalpura. Meanwhile, health officials expressed concern that the Tablighi Jamaat members might have come in contact with more people in the area. However, doctors and family members of the 63-year-old woman are clueless about how she contracted the disease as she has neither come in contact with any Covid-19 positive person nor has any travel history. Even though her son was also quarantined as a precaution, his test results came negative. Meanwhile in Sambhal, one more person tested positive for the infection, taking the total number of cases in the district to eight.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/10-month-old-among-seven-new-covid-19-cases-in-mbad-tally-now-37/articleshow/75227092.cms||Pankul Sharma
April 19, 2020||Mangaluru||Third patient from Udupi discharged||MANGALURU/UDUPI: The third Covid-19 patient in Udupi, a 29-year-old man, was discharged from the TMA Pai Covid Hospital, after two tests showed that he was negative. He was advised 14 days’ home quarantine. The patient had come to Udupi on March 24, from Kerala. Initially, he was admitted to the District Hospital in Udupi, after showing some Covid-19 symptoms, on March 27, and later tested positive on March 29.  The first Covid-19 patient from Udupi was discharged on April 11, and second on April 14. With the discharge of three patients, the number of active cases in Udupi has reduced to zero from three. No fresh cases were reported in Dakshina Kannada and Udupi districts on Saturday. Dakshina Kannada has one active Covid-19 patient who is being treated at Wenlock Hospital. Restrictions on sale of paracetamol tablets The drugs control department has instructed retail chemists in Dakshina Kannada not to dispense paracetamol-based drugs for symptoms like cough, cold, fever, tiredness, difficulty in breathing, without a prescription from doctors. In case of dispensing paracetamol-based drugs against prescription, the chemist must record details like name of the patient, doctor’s name, address and contact number in the bill. The department also warned action against chemists not adhering to the guidelines, and requested them to inform the health and family welfare department, if they come across suspicious cases where a customer has cough, cold, fever, tiredness and difficulties in breathing. Undertrials shifted A total 80 undertrials were shifted from the Mangaluru District Jail. While 40 were shifted to Karwar, the rest were sent to Chikkamagaluru to ensure social distancing. The prison in Mangaluru presently has 224 inmates in the new block, and 7 in the old block.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mangaluru/third-patient-from-udupi-discharged/articleshow/75226197.cms||---
April 19, 2020||Pune||Pune:‘We are tracing 10 high-risk and 20 low-risk contacts per patient’||PUNE: The Pimpri Chinchwad Municipal Corporation (PCMC) is tracing 10 high-risk and 20 low-risk contacts per positive patient, municipal commissioner Shravan Hardikar told TOI in an exclusive interview on Saturday. Edited Excerpts: Has PCMC been able to flattened the coronavirus curve? I don’t know. For 12 days, there were no cases and then since Markaz development, we started getting cases again. We saw doubling of cases is happening at an interval of eight days. There is no rapid rise as of now but we have to be on vigil. We have to ensure lockdown goes on unhindered. We are not getting a rapid increase like Pune or Mumbai, but there is a steady stream of numbers. We are tracing all contacts daily. How difficult has contact tracing been? It is difficult because the person does not remember all the contacts of last 15 days. Secondly, they also go into a shock when they test positive. Some of them don’t speak for one or two days. In such cases, we have to rely on family members, friends, acquaintances. That is where the community participation comes in handy. How long does it take to trace all contacts? For full contact tracing, it takes 2-3 days. We have been able to track, on an average, 10 high-risk contacts of those who have tested positive and 20-30 low-risk contacts. We test the high-risk contacts immediately and low-risk contacts are put in home quarantine and tested if they develop symptoms. Is there a pattern that has developed from contact tracing, so far?If the positive patient has been with the others for considerable amount of time or repeatedly, the contacts also become positive. How many migrants are in PCMC and how are they taken care of? In PCMC-run Nivara centres, there are 400 people. A lot of people stay in rented premises and they are finding it difficult to survive. The PCMC and various NGOs are providing food to 40,000 people across 50 locations. There is also tiffin services for about 5,000 people on a payment basis. If required, we will acquire all schools and feed as many people as required.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/we-are-tracing-10-high-risk-20-low-risk-contacts-per-patient/articleshow/75227492.cms||Satyanarayan Iyer
April 19, 2020||Pune||Developers tread cautiously before resuming construction activity in non-Covid zones||Pune: A slew of steps like daily medical check-up for workers and permissions from Pune divisional commissioner as well as collector are on developers’ radar before resuming construction activities at non-coronavirus locations in the district. With the Centre’s guidelines clearly mentioning that no worker would be allowed at construction sites from outside, Pune Credai Metro president Suhas Merchant said the developers would have to take extra efforts to ensure that the workers are convinced to stay back at the construction site till the lockdown, which nay require certain incentives. The developers are hoping that the local authorities would also issue occupancy and plinth certificates without any hassle to help complete the ongoing constructions. As per the Maharashtra Real Estate Regulatory Authority (MahaRERA), of the 25,489 projects registered with it, only 21% (5,346) projects are complete, while 78% (19,931) projects are incomplete. Credai national president Satish Magar said the body was working on a detailed note to be sent to the collectors in other parts of the country to get clarity on dos and dont’s. “We are working on the modalities and the note for the Pune collector should be ready within two days,” he told TOI. Property consultant Anuj Puri said the move to start at least some of the construction activity at project sites, though with limited workforce, was a welcome step. “With many migrant workers moving back to their villages since the lockdown, we will have to see how many are ready to resume work,” he said, adding that migrant workers comprised at least 80% share of the total 44 million workforce in the construction sector. He said no construction activity being allowed at Covid-19 hotspots from April 20 was a huge dampener for markets like Mumbai Metropolitan Region (MMR), which had been reeling under rising cases. A recently released data stated that MMR had the highest under-construction residential stock of nearly 4.65 lakh units, which accounted for 30% of the overall 15.62 lakh under-construction stock across the top seven cities. Pune, according to the consultancy firm, has close to2.62 lakh units in various stages of construction, which is nearly 17% of the overall 15.62 lakh under construction units across the top 7 cities. Rohit Gera, managing director of Gera Developments said while resumption of construction activity in green zones was a welcome move, workers were extremely anxious and keen to head back to their villages as soon as the travel restrictions were lifted. “As the supply chain stabilizes, work should slowly start to limp back to normalcy.” Credai national vice-president Shantilal Kataria said it would take over a year for the sector to recuperate from the lockdown. “From June onwards, the monsoon season will begin, during which construction activities will be halted for about four months. The prevailing situation is rare and banks need to help us. MahaRERA has already given three-month extension to complete the projects,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/developers-tread-cautiously-before-resuming-construction-activity-in-non-covid-zones/articleshow/75227496.cms||Nisha Nambiar
April 19, 2020||Hyderabad||Waqf board urged to clear dues||Charminar: United Muslim Forum TS & AP here on Saturday urged the government to ask the Telangana Waqf Board (TSWB) to clear imams’ and mauzzins’ honorarium outstanding for the last three months. Syed Muneeruddin Mukhtar, general secretary, United Muslim Forum told TOI that imams and mauzzins of various mosques had been deprived of their three months’ honorarium during these days, adding to their difficulties amid the lockdown. He urged TSWB to take immediate note of imams and mauzzins’ services to ensure disbursement of their honorarium soon. “Imams and muazzins play a key role in ensuring social distancing. At a time they need help, they have not been paid their three months’ honorarium yet. Unfortunately, their services are not taken into consideration ,’’ said Syed Muneeruddin Mukhtar, UMF general secretary.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/waqf-board-urged-to-clear-dues/articleshow/75227050.cms||---
April 19, 2020||Delhi||27 in Delhi's Tilak Vihar locality in coronavirus grip||NEW DELHI: A day after 26 members of an extended family in Jahangirpuri tested positive for Covid-19, a similar case has emerged in west Delhi in which 27 people living in close proximity were found infected with the virus. West district officials said the Widow’s Colony in Tilak Vihar was made a containment zone with restrictions imposed on the movement of the residents of the area. A densely populated colony, it houses a large number of women who had lost their husbands in the 1984 anti-Sikh riots. Sources said that district health officials had taken the samples of 80 people after a 72-year-old woman from the area died at RML Hospital on April 13 and cremated two days later. The test results, received after her death, revealed that she was infected with novel coronavirus. “The results of 30 of the 80 samples came out positive. Those who have symptoms will now be shifted for treatment, while regular testing and monitoring of asymptomatic people will be carried out,” an official said. Meanwhile, the samples of the seven family members and two neighbours of the food and supply inspector, whose father died of Covid-19 on Friday, came out negative on Sunday. Officials, however, said they will continue to remain in home quarantine.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/27-in-tilak-vihar-locality-in-virus-grip/articleshow/75240345.cms||---
April 19, 2020||Pune||Few biz operations to start after April 20||Pune: A minuscule number of companies in the district are set to resume work after April 20 even as they hurry to ensure social distancing in their factories. The government has agreed to allow those businesses to resume work that can provide accommodation to people within or near their factories. Prashant Girbane, the director general of Mahratta Chamber of Commerce, Industries and Agriculture (MCCIA), said that the orders as of now were to open factories outside the municipal limits. “Many industries in Bhosari and other areas are within the municipal limits. So, they will stay shut. I believe 25% of usual business activity will resume by the end of this month and around 60% of it will resume by May-end,” Girbane said. Most of the companies that will open in the first phase post April 20, will be from the outskirts of Pune. For instance, Godrej Appliances is one such company that is ready to start work with 25% of its strength in Shirwal and Mohali. “Around 25% of our employees stay within 4km of the factory and we expect all of them to come to work,” Kamal Nandi, the business head and executive vice-president of Godrej Appliances, said. IT companies have also started to roll out emails as to when employees can join back, but the dates are mostly in the first week of May. Companies operating in places such as Chakan are also working out strategies as to how much they can allow work to resume in the immediate future.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/few-biz-operations-to-start-after-april-20/articleshow/75227502.cms||Satyanarayan Iyer
April 19, 2020||Hyderabad||Two arrested while illegally transporting PDS rice to Karnataka||HYDERABAD: Two persons were nabbed while they were illegally transporting 12 tonne of public distribution scheme (PDS) rice and intended to make money by selling it to people in Karnataka. The accused bought rice from PDS beneficiaries at cheap price and planned to sell it at high rate. Police said Mohammed Mohsin Qureshi, a driver, and S Ramanjaneyulu, an auto trolley driver, were arrested. The state government has been supplying 12-kg of PDS rice free for every member of the family holding a ration card. Mohsin had purchased the PDS rice from some card holders of Hyderabad. The two were planning to transport it to Humnabad in Karnataka. Task Force police nabbed and handed them over to Chatrinaka police, who arrested them.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/two-arrested-while-illegally-transporting-pds-rice-to-ktaka/articleshow/75227071.cms||---
April 19, 2020||Agra||Junior doc of SNMC tests positive for Covid-19||Agra: A junior doctor of Agra's SN Medical College (SNMC) tested positive for Covid-19 late on Thursday. So far, eight cases of health staffers working in different departments of the government hospital has surfaced. There were three junior doctors and five supporting staff, including four ward boys. The health department is collecting samples of all the staffers of SNMC now. Chief medical officer Dr Mukesh Kumar Vats told TOI, “The latest case of a junior doctor getting infected is under investigation. Our contact surveillance team is working on it. The junior doctor was not serving in the isolation ward or quarantine facility for Covid-19. He may have got the infection outside the college. But, health staffers getting infected is a major concern. We have asked the SNMC administration to collect samples of all the health staffers for lab testing. We are also focusing on training of all the staffers on the standard operating procedure to deal with corona patients. Besides, we plan to conduct testing of all the patients admitted here." “We are ensuring that necessary safety tools, such as masks, gloves, goggles and PPE kits, are available in sufficient numbers. SNMC administration has been asked to ensure that no health staffers work without the proper safety gear," he added. Notably, three Covid-19 infected patients also having other health issues died at the SN Medical College. Meanwhile, a two-member team comprising of senior doctors of King George Medical University (KGMU) sent by the state government reached Agra. The team has been tasked to find out reasons behind the increasing number of Covid-19 positive cases in Agra and health staffers getting infected. Apart from SNMC, a private hospital on National Highway-2 and a private clinic in Ghatiya Azam Khan locality are the two major Covid-19 hotspots in the city. At least 35 Covid-19 cases linked to these centres have surfaced, so far. The vicinity around both the centres have been sealed by the police. On Friday, 27-year-old daughter of an automobile dealer who was tested Covid-19 positive on March 27 and admitted in SNMC's isolation ward was declared "cured of the infection" and discharged from the hospital. She had returned from the UK on March 17. District magistrate Prabhu N Singh said, “So far, 172 coronavirus cases have been reported in Agra. Out of these, 157 are active cases. Total 13 patients have been cured and discharged. All the people who had come in contact with any Covid-19 patients are being identified and screened. The area around their houses are being sanitised. We are doing massive sampling to identify all the infected people and send them to institutional quarantine."||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/agra/junior-doc-of-snmc-tests-positive-for-covid-19/articleshow/75221758.cms||---
April 19, 2020||Kozhikode||Day after govt nod, FIR registered against MLA||KANNUR: A day after the state government gave nod for probe against Azhikode MLA K M Shaji, the vigilance and anti-corruption bureau (VACB) unit in Kannur registered an FIR against him in a three-year-old complaint that he took Rs 25 lakh as bribe from the management of a higher secondary school in his constituency for sanctioning Plus Two courses in 2014. The FIR, under Sections 7 and 13 (1) read with 13(2) of the Prevention of Corruption Act, 1998, was registered on Saturday morning, with VACB DSP V Madhusoodan as complainant, and it has been sent to the vigilance court at Thalassery, prior to further inquiry. In the preliminary inquiry, it was found that the charges against the MLA were prima facie correct and hence the FIR was registered, said the DSP. “We conducted the preliminary inquiry based on the order from the vigilance director on September 20, 2017, and it was found that the allegations are prima facie correct, and the further inquiry would be initiated after we get the go ahead from the court,” he said. The FIR also said the income and expenditure details of the school and also the witness statements showed that the MLA took the money. According to the FIR, the school management approached the IUML, seeking approval to start higher secondary courses in the school in 2013. The IUML said the school management should give the donation it took for the appointment of one teacher to the party for the construction of a building at Poothappara in Azhikode. But later the MLA dissuaded the party leaders from taking the money, it said. The school management had claimed before the party leaders that Shaji took the money, said the FIR. This issue was raised in the party platforms by a local IUML leader, who later broke away from the party. Incidentally, after the controversy erupted, the school management denied the charges. It was in 2017 that local CPM leader Kuduvan Padmanabhan approached the VACB, based on the letter written by a former IUML leader to the party leadership raising the allegations of corruption. Though the probe did not make any headway , as the allegations were baseless, it was after the statements he made about the utilization of the CMDRF funds that the government took the decision to register the FIR, alleged Shaji. He also said he would fight the case legally and politically.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kozhikode/day-after-govt-nod-fir-registered-against-mla/articleshow/75226203.cms||---
April 19, 2020||Coimbatore||6 youths fined for poaching||Coimbatore: The forest department fined six youths of Rs 1,000 each for trying to poach hare at Navakkarai Piriu near Ettimadai here on Saturday. The six were found setting up snares on a patta land at Navakkarai Pirivu on Saturday morning by a team of field staff from Madukkarai forest range while on a patrol. The youths were identified as K Rajkumar, M Kishore, 21, P Sudhakar, 24, A Nishanthkumar, 20, S Priyaraj, 22 and G Jayakrishnan, 20, all from Anna Nagar at Marappalam. The forest department registered a case and levied the fine. Forest officials warned the youths of arrest, if they were caught doing the same again. It is to be noted that Sirumugai forest range officials registered two cases against four people for attempting to poach hare at Pethikuttai beat on April 5 and Vedar Colony at Odanthurai beat on April 13.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/6-youths-fined-for-poaching/articleshow/75227503.cms||---
April 19, 2020||Coimbatore||Police release vehicles seized for lockdown violation||Coimbatore: The city police have started releasing the vehicles seized for lockdown violations.Police had seized more than 10,000 vehicles including motorcycles and cars for violating the prohibitory orders since March 24, police commissioner Sumit Sharan said. “We had registered 53,000 cases for violation of traffic rules and issued 34,500 challans worth Rs 75 lakh. Of the 10,000 vehicles seized, we released more than 3,000 vehicles to the owners in the last two days. We request motorists not to venture out during the lockdown period,” he said.The rural police had seized 7,752 motorcycles and 320 four-wheelers. They handed over 122 vehicles on Friday and 163 on Saturday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/police-release-vehicles-seized-for-lockdown-violation/articleshow/75227509.cms||---
April 19, 2020||Hyderabad||Pharmacies to record details of people buying fever medicines in Hyderabad||HYDERABAD: All the pharmacies and pharmaceutical associations across the city have been directed to maintain record of persons purchasing drugs for fever, cold and cough. The step is being taken keeping in mind that several symptomatic people are not coming forward to get tested for Covid-19, said civic administrators. The municipal administration department has asked all the additional collectors, municipal commissioners, zonal commissioners and deputy municipal commissioner to hold a meeting with pharmacies and their associations, and brief them about the issue. Municipal administration principal secretary Arvind Kumar said the medical shop owners have to keep record the name, phone number and address of those who come to buy medicines for ailments such as fever, cold and cough. “The shop owners should also handover the list to the respective commissioners. In the suspected cases, tests should be done. The medical shop owners should also enlighten the people coming to buy medicines on the Covid 19 and how it will benefit if the tests are done,” the principal secretary said. Official sources said the government has been adopting multi-pronged approach to contain the spread of the virus in the state. “Due to some level of hesitation and perceived social stigma, many people suffering from fever, cough, cold and other symptoms similar to Covid 19 are taking medicines on their own,” a senior official of the municipal administration said. Officials said that this is an important step in identifying cases at a nascent stage and preventing further spread. They said the this will aid the government in fighting the pandemic.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/pharmacies-to-record-details-of-people-buying-fever-meds/articleshow/75227097.cms||---
April 19, 2020||Kochi||Amid lockdown, a heart transplant||KOTTAYAM: The first heart transplant in the state during the lockdown period was successfully conducted at the government medical college hospital (MCH) here on Saturday. The transplant was done on K C Jose, 62, a local resident who was under treatment for heart disease in the MCH. Post-surgery, Jose has been put on ventilator for 24 hours due to the possibility of heart rejection and infection. Jose will be under observation for the next two weeks. It is the sixth heart transplant surgery in the government sector in the state and all the six heart transplants were held at Kottayam MCH. The current superintendent of the MCH Dr T K Jayakumar, who is also the head of the cardio thoracic and vascular surgery department had lead the medical teams on all the six occasions. The hospital had created a record by becoming the first government-run hospital to conduct such a surgery in 2015. State health minister K K Shailaja lauded the medical team lead by Dr Jayakumar for achieving the rare feat. A couple of days earlier, the oldest persons so far in India to have contracted the coronavirus had recovered and left this hospital. The heart of Thiruvananthapuram native Sreekumar, 50, was harvested by the medical team lead by Jayakumar at a private hospital in Thiruvananthapuram. Sreekumar, who was under treatment there following a road accident was declared brain dead after which the relatives consented for organ donation. Four individuals got new lives following this. ‘Mritasanjeevani’, Kerala government’s deceased donor organ transplantation programme coordinated the organ donation process. According to the state health department, the organ donation process had come to a halt across the globe following the outbreak of Covid-19. However, Kerala was able to conduct the process as Covid-19 has been under control in the state, said the office of the minister. The medical team from Kottayam under Dr Jayakumar had reached Thiruvananthapuram on Friday night. The heart was harvested by around 3.15am and brought to Kottayam by 5.15am. By 5am, another team had begun surgery on Jose. Jayakumar and the other members of the team joined them around 5.15am and the procedure got over by 8am. The fire and rescue unit from here brought medicines required for the surgery from Ernakulam within 40 minutes. One kidney was donated to a patient under treatment at Thiruvananthapuram MCH while the other kidney and liver were donated to patients under treatment at a private hospital in the state capital. Minister Shailaja also lauded the relatives of Sreekumar who showed willingness to donate the organs.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/amid-lockdown-a-heart-transplant/articleshow/75226222.cms||---
April 19, 2020||Pune||Pet owners seek relaxation from cops||Pune: The lockdown has left pet parents with a huge responsibility of keeping their canines at home all the time. Those who dare to venture out with their four-legged friends are slapped with notices under Section 188 of the IPC by the police. Amit Sonkar of Kalyaninagar was stopped by police while he was walking his dogs and taken to the nearest police station along with the animals. “Me and my dogs were made to wait at the police station for more than one and a half hours, while some policemen took our pictures. It was humiliating,” Sonkar alleged. Jitendra Oswal of Market Yard said on April 16, he was stopped by the police from walking his dogs and was later slapped with a notice under Section 188. “I had a mask on my face and was walking the dog within hundred metres of my society as suggested,” he said. Vineeta Tandon, president of Voices for India’s Voiceless Animals, said, “We are requesting the police to walking of pets for a few minutes, a few times in a day.” The Pune district Society for Prevention of Cruelty to Animals requested police to consider allowing pet dogs outdoor in the society complex. Ravindra Shisve, joint commissioner, Pune police, said, “We will study the situation and take necessary action.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/pet-owners-seek-relaxation-from-cops/articleshow/75227507.cms||Neha Madaan
April 19, 2020||Delhi||Delhi: Scout group roped in to help stuck migrants, kin tackle crisis||NEW DELHI: To help homesick migrants and those living at the shelter homes in central Delhi, the scouts and guide group from Ramjas will engage them in activities and provide them counselling to deal with the lockdown situation. The Delhi Police’s initiative, which was suggested by SHO, Karol Bagh, Maninder Singh, is currently going on at one of the schools in Ashoka Pahari area at Karol Bagh where 128 migrants and their family members are staying. The aim is to reducing the migrant workers’ stress as well as developing their overall personality. Events, such as a contest for keeping the rooms clean, are being organised to keep them engaged and motivated. Sanjay Bhatia, DCP, Central, said: “After the lockdown was extended, morale of the migrant workers was low. Hence, we decided to do something for them so that they can remain engaged and also feel at home.” A doctor, who is a part of the scouts group, visits the school every day. Dr Lalit Verma told TOI: “Since they are away from their homes, some of them have anxiety and a feeling of hopelessness. We talk to them and explain the things so that they stay positive. We even provide them medicines for common cold or cough. The kids are usually kept engaged in games and activities like drawing and painting.” “We may expand the initiative to all the shelter homes in our area soon,” added the DCP.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/scout-group-roped-in-to-help-stuck-migrants-kin-tackle-crisis/articleshow/75227812.cms||Sakshi Chand
April 19, 2020||Bareilly||15 Nepalese caught & quarantined in Pilibhit||Pilibhit: As many as 15 Nepalese labourers, who were on their way home from Agra on foot, were caught in Pilibhit — after covering over 270 kilometres — in the early hours on Saturday and quarantined. After a police team from Sungarhi police station caught the labourers near Assam road outpost at 3am, they were quarantined in Agrawal Sabha Bhawan in the city by the health department. As Agra has, so far, reported nearly 200 novel coronavirus positive cases, Pilibhit health department officials have kept the Nepalese labourers under tight vigil at the quarantine centre. According to station house officer (SHO) of the Sungarhi police station Atar Singh, all the 15 labourers hail from Nepal’s Kanchanpur district, close to the Indo-Nepal border. “They were working in hotels and had left Agra on April 12 on the foot for their homes,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/15-nepalese-caught-quarantined-in-pilibhit/articleshow/75227108.cms||---
April 19, 2020||Mangaluru||Five Vietnamese nationals booked for spitting in apartment||MANGALURU: Five Vietnamese nationals were booked and sent to a hospital to be quarantined, after one of them was found staining the phone installed in the elevator of an apartment in the city, with his snot as well as by spitting. The incident took place at 3.45 pm on Friday, and was caught by CCTV cameras installed in the plush apartment in Kadri. The five Vietnamese nationals had come out of quarantine on April 4. Based on a complaint filed by the apartment association, they have been booked and sent to a hospital to be quarantined. According to sources from the apartment, the Vietnamese nationals were staying in the B wing of the apartment. One of them removed his mask, and spat, as well as stained the phone installed in the elevator with his snot. He also spit on the elevator wall. A case has been registered at the Mangaluru East police station. Police said that an investigation is on into the incident.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mangaluru/five-vietnamese-nationals-booked-for-spitting-in-apartment/articleshow/75226230.cms||---
April 19, 2020||Coimbatore||Pregnant woman gets police help to reach home||Salem: The city police helped a pregnant woman reach her native village in Namakkal district by arranging her a vehicle.Salem town police inspector B Kumar was on a vehicle check at the collectorate area on Saturday morning when he saw the a woman at the entrance of the Salem Government Mohan Kumaramangalam Medical College and Hospital with her family, looking for a vehicle. According to the officer, the woman, M Shalini, of Rasipuram in Namakkal district, had came to the hospital on Wednesday after she developed breathing trouble. She was seven-month pregnant. She was admitted to the hospital and discharged on Saturday morning. When the officer came to know about her plight, he arranged a vehicle for them. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/pregnant-woman-gets-police-help-to-reach-home/articleshow/75227514.cms||---
April 19, 2020||Pune||Joggers go off the beaten path to evade police action||Pune: Two days of sustained police action, far from deterring morning joggers, appears to have prompted them to find new routes for their daily exercise. Since Thursday, the police — as a part of ‘Operation All Out’, have been catching joggers, walkers and loiterers across the city. However, now, joggers are finding ways and routes escape police attention. “It has come to our notice that people have started visiting places like Hanuman Tekdi and arterial roads off Law College to evade punishment. We have intensified patrolling at these spots and took taken action against four joggers on the tekdi,” senior inspector Deepak Lagad, the in-charge of the Deccan Gymkhana police, said. In the Yerawada police station limits, 40 joggers were caught in Kalyaninagar and Parnakuti. Police say the joggers try many tactics to worm their way out of trouble. “For instance if a jogger is caught, s/he will show a bag and claim they are out to purchase grocery. We don’t accept these explanations because they are caught away from their residences,” senior inspector Yunus Shaikh said. “The joggers are educated and well dressed — some of them apologize, while others pick up arguments with police that no positive cases of coronavirus were reported in Kalyaninagar. They feel they are not in danger,” Shaikh added. Indian Volunteers Core has deployed 40 volunteers to assist police in taking action against joggers and maintaining bandobast at nakabandi and checkpoints. Hadapsar senior police inspector Ramesh Sathe called such joggers shameless. “These joggers have become shameless and are not ready to change their mentality. In some instances, joggers come all the way to Hadapsar from Manjari without any reason,” Sathe said, adding they have taken action against 66 joggers at Magarpatta Road, Phursungi Chowk, Hadapsar and Gadital since the driver started. The errant joggers are being charged under the relevant sections of the Indian Penal Code and the Epidemic Diseases Act.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/joggers-go-off-the-beaten-path-to-evade-police-action/articleshow/75227516.cms||Asseem Shaikh
April 19, 2020||Nagpur||With 4 more coronavirus cases, 25 test posituve at Nagpur quarantine centres||NAGPUR: Around 25 people placed under institutional quarantine have tested positive for Covid-19 so far in the city. Hardly five positive patients – a cap seller, a Chandrapur-based couple, a 25-year-old Gittikhadan resident and a 61-year-old man from Kanhan — belong to the over 200 Delhi/foreign returnees who were traced through their digital footprints and quarantined since April 1. They had opposed the move saying they had already completed 14-day self-isolation after returning from/via Delhi. Rest of the 20 positive patients found at quarantine centres were close contacts of Takia, Santranjipura and Tablighi Jamaat cases. As numbers swelled, the Nagpur Municipal Corporation’s (NMC) isolated yet to be tested suspects with Delhi returnees who had already tested negative. This created anxiety among the negative persons about getting infected through suspected cases as they had also spent more than 14-days in the city after returning. Asked if people can turn positive even after 14 days, civil surgeon Dr Devendra Paturkar told TOI, “A variation may be possible but the range is as yet not officially decided.” He was referring to the phenomenon of people being found positive even after 14 days. “The (official) range mentioned is two to 14 days,” Dr Paturkar clarified. Divisional commissioner Dr Sanjeev Kumar said someone who tests negative can be positive later in institutional quarantine. “It means he had infection before he came but was detected positive a few days after that. That’s why even after a negative test in the beginning we insisted on quarantining them,” he said. Regarding more than one person sharing a room or halls, Dr Kumar said, “We are shifting people to other places and searching for new ones. In institutional quarantine, chances of infection are very low. Police have been instructed to go on rounds and check people are in their rooms and not loitering.” Infectious disease specialist Dr Ashwini Tayade too said, “Late clearance of virus and prolonged shedding is known. The 14-day incubation period is average, but there is a possibility of variation in it.” According to her, the protocols are strict enough to avoid close contact between people in institutional quarantine facilities. “If they follow the protocols fully, merely staying together and sharing rooms will not get them infected. Social distancing, hand hygiene and using masks during quarantine are very important points,” she added. Ten positive persons were found at MLA hostels, the biggest quarantine facility in the city, followed by eight from Lonara, two each from Ravi Bhavan and Symbiosis. Takia Deewanshah cap seller was the first person to test positive while in institutional quarantine at Vanamati. He was in the Delhi list received by NMC. In a series of reports, TOI had highlighted the apprehensions of people at these centres. Quarantine centre incharges had tough time keeping situation under control when most of them had tested negative but were forced to share rooms with untested ones. They even accused the administration of keeping them to inflate the numbers of suspects isolated.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/with-4-more-cases-25-test-ve-at-city-quarantine-centres/articleshow/75227512.cms||Sarfaraz Ahmed
April 19, 2020||Hyderabad||Hospital not taking enough safety measures, allege ESIC staff||HYDERABAD: At a time when most hospitals are following the one-third staff formula, as a measure to prevent community spread of Covid-19, the government-run ESIC Medical College and Hospital, Sanathnagar (operated by central government) has not taken any such measure, claim doctors and nurses. They also allege that the entire staff of the hospital — totalling over 2,000 — is working without any home quarantine period. This, they say, exposes not just the doctors, nurses, nursing orderly , paramedical staff but also other patients, to the risk of contracting the virus. “All our doctors, nurses, paramedical staff, ayaahs and security guards are reporting to work every day. While other hospitals are taking measures to cut down the risk of Covid-19’s spread, we are working without any preventive measures in place. As a result, a doctor or nurse posted in isolation ward one day can be in the ICU (intensive care unit) the next day and the outpatient department (OP) on the third day, exposing them to the risk of being infected,” said a doctor at the hospital. According to the staff, though the patient footfall has reduced since the lockdown, as many as 31,400 patients were registered in the OP and IP departments in March. Each patient was accompanied by at least one attendant. “Moreover, personal protection equipment (PPE)s and N95 masks are not provided to all front line health workers, despite the high exposure. This has created fear among workers. If even one person gets infected, it would be a disaster,” said Prakash Babu, general secretary of nurses union at the hospital. When contacted, hospital authorities denied the allegations and said they were following due orders. “The one-third staff formula is not applicable to the hospital. We are following all orders regarding OP, emergency and IP services,” said Dr KK Paul, medical superintendent of the hospital.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/hosp-not-taking-enough-safety-measures-allege-esic-staff/articleshow/75227104.cms||Amrita Didyala
April 19, 2020||Hyderabad||Retailers’ body: Not profit, let service be motive||Hyderabad: The Hyderabad and Secunderabad Retail Dealers’ Association has appealed to retailers to sell essential commodities at minimum profit margin. In view of the extension of the lockdown till May 3, the retail traders should do business with “service motive” and not only as a business, association president T Bhawarsingh and general secretary Dilip Kumar Pansari said on Saturday. “ It is the moral responsibility of all traders in the state too to serve the people during this crisis with minimum profit margin, particularly on essential commodities,” said Dilip Kumar Pansari. The Association, which has over 800 members across twin cities, in its advisory said the retailers should also ensure social distancing and other lockdown norms were followed by customers and traders. TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/retailers-body-not-profit-let-service-be-motive/articleshow/75227113.cms||---
April 19, 2020||Agra||FIR against owner & manager of Agra hosp||Agra: Eleven days after a woman patient of a private hospital on Agra's NH-2 was reported as its first Covid-19 case, the district administration lodged an FIR against the owner and the manager for alleged negligence and not sharing vital information with local authorities. So far, 25 Covid-19 positive cases have been linked to the hospital, while authorities feel more than 300 people linked to the hospital, directly or indirectly, are now vulnerable to Covid-19 infection. In neighbouring district, Firozabad, at least five people were tested positive, after one of its medical staff reportedly infected with the virus visited Pratappura village, earlier this month. On Friday, New Agra police lodged FIR against the owner of the private hospital and its manager under IPC sections 188 (disobedience to order duly promulgated by public servant), 269 (negligent act likely to spread infection of disease dangerous to life), 270 (malignant act likely to spread infection of disease dangerous to life) and 271 (disobedience to quarantine rule) following directions of the district administration. According to the FIR, the owner and the manager did not share information with the district administration on the actual number of patients admitted to the hospital, and also the medical staff employed at the hospital. This "grave negligence" and "lack of cooperation" of the hospital led to Covid-19 infection in other districts as well, the FIR stated, adding that the hospital authorities misled the district administration and therefore, health department failed to contain the corona spread. Health department officials told TOI, that a 53-year-old woman of Mantola was admitted at the hospital for treatment of a respiratory ailment on March 25. She was also suffering from tuberculosis and diabetes. On April 3, her family shifted her to a hospital in Mathura. Three days later, on April 6, she tested positive for Covid-19. On receiving the information, the Agra health team took samples of the staffers of the Agra hospital and later on April 8 they found seven with Covid-19 infection. Patients from Etah, Mainpuri, Firozabad and other nearby districts were also admitted to the hospital. District magistrate Prabhu N Singh said, “The management of the hospital was not cooperative and tried to mislead the administration. They shared inaccurate details of staffers on duty and patients admitted which adversely affected the Covid-19 containment plan." Meanwhile, the executive committee of Indian Medical Association (IMA) Agra raised its objection over the FIR registered against the hospital owner. Dr Ravi Pachori, president of IMA Agra, said, "We are pained to know that an FIR has been registered against the owner of the hospital. He had been cooperating with the administration on contact tracing and containment of the disease. We urge the district magistrate to withdraw this FIR immediately so that the medical community which is already leading a miserable life does not feel harassed and can continue its fight against this deadly virus."||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/agra/fir-against-owner-manager-of-agra-hosp/articleshow/75221778.cms||---
April 19, 2020||Kochi||Archdiocese gives 101 sacks of rice to community kitchens||Thrissur: Thrissur archdiocese has sponsored 101 sacks of rice to community kitchens in the district. Archbishop Mar Andrews Thazhath and auxiliary bishop Mar Tony Neelankavil handed over the rice sacks to agricultural minister V S Sunikumar and local self-government minister A C Moideen on Saturday. Besides that, Kerala Catholic Youth Movement (KCYM), a youth wing under the Catholic Church, has sponsored 1,000 face masks to health officials. Thrissur East circle inspector Lalkumar collected one load of vegetables from residents and handed it over to the ministers on Saturday for giving it to community kitchens. Kerala state pensioners’ union sponsored 100kg of rice and vegetables to the community kitchen at Olari. Kerala state pensioners’ union (Olari unit) secretary K K Safiaya donated Rs 30,000 to Chief Minister’s Distress Relief Fund. Thrissur corporation deputy mayor Raphi Jose P said, “Now, there are five community kitchens functioning under Thrissur corporation. The central community kitchen is at Thope and the others are at Olari, Vilvattom, Ollukkara and Ollur.” “A total of 680 people are residing at the corporation-arranged camps,” said the deputy mayor. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/archdiocese-gives-101-sacks-of-rice-to-community-kitchens/articleshow/75226241.cms||---
April 19, 2020||Hyderabad||Ex-servicemen in Covid-19 combat duty||Hyderabad: Hundreds of ex-servicemen of all ranks in Telangana have come forward to render their service to fight Covid-19. Among those who have volunteered is 78-year-old Wing Commander Bharath Bhushan of West Marredpally. “If there is a war, I am ready to defend my country,” he told STOI. He has registered himself with the Telangana government and also with the armed forces. “I will do whatever I am asked to do,” Bhushan, who took voluntary retirement after a 24-year stint in the IAF, said. Telangana Sanik Welfare director Col Ramesh Kumar said that a few hundred ex-servicemen had registered their names to help. FOr instance, in Kazipet, Naik K Haribabu distributes coconuts and fruits to policemen. Sergeant Manohar Reddy is distributing groceries to the needy. “It is an unprecedent crisis. The government has asked ex-servicemen to help out during this crisis situation,” he said. Ex-servicemen can register on the website https://transport.telangana.gov.in . He said the services of retired armed forces personnel will be used for patient care services, logistics, security and any task related to Covid-19. This should be done by April 22. There are 40,000 ex-servicemen in Telangana out of whom half are employed in various sectors.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/ex-servicemen-in-covid-19-combat-duty/articleshow/75227119.cms||Ch Sushil Rao
April 19, 2020||Kochi||KSSP provides free treatment online||THRISSUR: Kerala Shastra Sahitya Parishad (KSSP) in association with Indian association of physical medicine and rehabilitation Kerala chapter is offering free online treatment. The facility will be available in all districts in the state. People who have suffered spine and head injuries, stroke, cerebral palsy, those who have lost limbs and hands, myelomeningocele patients can avail the free online treatment said Kerala Shastra Sahitya Parishad Thrissur district secretary T Satyanarayan. “As many as 34 doctors from 14 districts will offer online treatment. The online treatment will be available from 4pm to 6pm on Sunday, Tuesday and Thursday. The treatment will be provided through phone, WhatsApp video call and other online facilities,” said Satyanarayanan. “Such a facility is arranged to reduce the patients’ pressure sores, spasticity, contracture, deformity, aspiration pneumonia, osteoarthritis and orthostatic hypotension. Most of the patients have no way to contact the doctor or continue the treatment through hospital due to the lockdown. We hope the new facility will be great help for them,” he said. “In some cases, continuous treatment is needed. The online treatment will help reduce the stress of the patients,” said Satyanarayanan. The free physical online treatment will be provided through CAPSULE (Campaign Against Pseudo Science Using Law and Ethics) an initiative of the Kerala Sasthra Sahitya Parishad (KSSP), he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/kssp-provides-free-treatment-online/articleshow/75226269.cms||---
April 19, 2020||Pune||Pune: Housing society members to be roped in as special police officers||PUNE: In an attempt to overcome the manpower crunch in implementing lockdown and social distancing measures, the city police have decided to appoint physically-fit members and office-bearers of housing societies, between the age of 18 and 50, as special police officers (SPOs) on a voluntary basis. Pune police commissioner K Venkatesham and joint police commissioner Ravindra Shisve reviewed the manpower at local police stations on Tuesday evening before taking a decision on appointing SPOs under the provisions of the Mumbai Police Rules. "For now, we are aiming at having five to 10 SPOs for each police station," Shisve told TOI. The Pune police has a total 30 police stations. Shisve said, "The SPOs will have to carry identity cards, which would be issued to them after background verification, but they cannot use them for personal work. There are some far-flung areas where it takes time for policemen to reach and the SPOs will be of great help in such places." The police will ensure that those volunteering as SPOs do not have any political/criminal affiliation and also do not suffer from underlying health conditions, such as diabetes, high blood pressure or other critical ailments. A background check on the volunteers will be carried out by senior inspectors of local police stations. The zonal deputy commissioners of police (DCPs) will issue identity cards to the SPOs once their verification is done. A DCP told TOI "Many women police constables, who are pregnant or are suffering from various ailments, are on compulsory leave. The police stations are short staffed, but crime has reduced considerably in the city. Right now, we need men to keep an eye on roads and to maintain peace and tranquility in society". The SPOs will help the police in implementing social distancing norms and assist needy residents in their society or locality. They will make arrangements for essentials, such as vegetables, groceries, water etc with the help of the local police station. They will also help local residents needing urgent medical attention. Police will circulate phone numbers of essential services to them. Also, the SPOs will have to alert police about gathering of people in their areas, criminal incidents, if any, and about people breaching social distancing norms.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/hsg-society-members-to-be-roped-in-as-special-police-officers/articleshow/75227521.cms||---
April 19, 2020||Bareilly||Four of family among five held for assaulting police team||PILIBHIT: Five people, including two women, were arrested on Saturday morning for allegedly attacking a police team of Pilibhit Kotwali police station and injuring a constable A team headed by officer in-charge of Devha police outpost, Mahendra Pal Singh, was allegedly assaulted by four members of a family of a meat seller who had opened his shop in violation of lockdown rules. When told to stop selling meat and close the shop, the owner, identified as Arshad Ali, 49, a resident of Masjid Pathani locality, and his family members allegedly resisted and attacked the police team Ali's shop was within his residence and he was running it without a licence,Singh said. Niether he nor any of his family members working in the shop were wearing a face mask or gloves. A group of customers at the shop also did not have any protective gear. A constable was injured in the attack. He was shifted to the district hospital. Five assailants, including two women, were arrested from the spot and sent to jail. In his complaint, Mahendra Pal Singh accused Arshad Ali, his son, Sahban, 20, wife Mustakeen Begum, 40, daughter Neha, 22 and a resident, Mohammad Rashid, 38, of unauthorized sale of meat and attack on the police team. Singh said police seized 40 roosters, three goats, 20 kilos of mutton and 10 kilos of dressed chicken. In addition, a sharp-edged weapon and slaughtering tools were seized from the spot. Shrikant Dwivedi, SHO, said the accused were booked under IPC section 147 (rioting), 148 (rioting, armed with deadly weapons), 188 (disobedience to the order duly promulgated by a public servant), 269 (negligent act likely to spread infection of disease dangerous to life) 270 (malignant act likely to spread infection of disease dangerous to life) and 307 (attempt to kill) besidrs provisions of the Epidemic Diseases Act and the Arms Act.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/four-of-family-among-five-held-for-assaulting-police-team/articleshow/75227121.cms||---
April 19, 2020||Bareilly||17 test negative for Covid-19 in Pilibhit; 2 fresh samples sent||PILIBHIT: Health department here heaved a sigh of relief after King George’s Medical University (KGMU) in Lucknow sent 17 negative reports of samples sent on Thursday. Now, the health authorities are awaiting 15 more reports. These include the two samples they sent on Saturday. "One of the fresh samples is of a person who works in Gajraula. He has high fever and a severe headache. Although this may be a normal fever but we don’t want to take any risk at present,".said CM Chturvedi, additional chief medical officer. The other sample is of a patient from a village in Mathotanda, he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/17-test-negative-for-covid-19-in-pilibhit-2-fresh-samples-sent/articleshow/75227116.cms||---
April 19, 2020||Pune||Birds find a quiet moment in the sun thanks to minimal human intervention||Pune: A city-based ecologist recently spotted a crested serpent eagle in Parvati. In Aundh, a peacock surprised a resident outside his window recently. A Deccan resident spotted a barn owl from his window on Saturday. Ecologists are now sighting birds, rarely seen in city areas thanks to minimal human intervention following the lockdown imposed due to the spread of coronavirus. Bird watchers and ecologists have noticed a shift in behaviour of birds and animals since the lockdown was implemented. Sachin Punekar, ecologist and founder of Biospheres that works in the field of Conservation Ecology, told TOI, “The quiet in urban areas as a result of the lockdown has revived the locally displaced wilderness and, in turn, attracted a number of non-native or rare birds to urban areas. Three days ago, in the afternoon, I heard the call of a Crested Serpent Eagle and later spotted the lofty bird flying along with Black Kites around Parvati Hill. I haven’t heard or noticed this bird in decades in this area,” he said. He said that generally, birds are most active at sunrise or sunset. “However, in the present lockdown, vehicular traffic and other sources of sound and air pollution are noticeably low. This has given an opportunity to most bird species to remain active for a considerable time throughout the day. Ornithologists must research this new ethological aspect,” Punekar added. An Aundh resident, living close to the Mula river said, “On March 23 morning, I happened to look out of my window and saw a peacock and two peahens. These peacocks usually stay on the other side of the river. They crossed the river likely for the first time that day.” Deepak Mohoni, a resident of Kalyaninagar, spotted a bright golden-yellow bird outside his window on March 30. “It must have been a Golden Oriole though I cannot be sure. I do not recall seeing one in the neighbourhood before,” he said. City-based ecologist Ankur Patwardhan said, “I have been spotting Crested Serpent Eagles almost daily hovering in areas near Dhankawadi as well as the Indian Mongoose. The Crested Serpent Eagle is difficult to spot in crowded city areas but the Indian Mongoose is an occasional visitor.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/birds-find-a-quiet-moment-in-the-sun-thanks-to-minimal-human-intervention/articleshow/75227524.cms||Neha Madaan
April 19, 2020||Agra||Endangered deer rescued, relocated in Mathura||Times News Network  Agra: An Indian hog deer (hyelaphus porcinus) was rescued by the Wildlife SOS’s rapid response unit after it was chased by feral dogs in Nagla Vishambhara village located in Chhata block of Mathura. The animal had sustained minor wounds and after urgent medical treatment, it was safely released back in its natural habitat. According to the NGO, on Tuesday afternoon, their rescue team received a call on their 24-hour rescue helpline from the forest department about a hog deer in need of urgent medical aid. As it turned out, the helpless deer was injured by feral dogs in Nagla Vishambhara village and was immediately moved to the Kosi Kalan range forest office in Mathura. After ensuring that they do not cause any further stress, the team carefully loaded the traumatized animal in a safe transport cage and brought the animal to their wildlife hospital. Wildlife SOS’s deputy director, Veterinary Services, Dr. Ilayaraja, said, “The deer, identified as a male, had sustained superficial injuries on its hind limbs and back region. It was under immense stress and took a couple of hours to recover from the ordeal. After necessary treatment, we released it back into its natural habitat.” Forest officer, Kosi Kalan range, Mathura, Meghraj Sharma, said, “As soon as we received information about the deer, we immediately deployed our team to the location to assess the situation and safely bring the animal to our office. In the past, we have had similar cases of deer and nilgais falling victim to feral dogs, therefore we immediately contacted Wildlife SOS for their medical assistance.” The Indian hog deer is an endangered species that has lost a large part of its population over the last few decades. This species gets its name from the hog-like way it runs through the forests with the head hung low instead of leaping like other deer species.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/agra/endangered-deer-rescued-relocated-in-mathura/articleshow/75221809.cms||---
April 19, 2020||Madurai||Covid patient, two others booked for hate audio clip||Madurai: A 42-year-old Covid-19 patient from Mandapam and two others were booked by Ramanathapuram district police on Saturday for recording and sharing a hate audio clip as well as false information on the viral disease in the last two days. The man is undergoing treatment at the Sivaganga government medical collegeand hospital (SMCH). The trio was booked under various sections of IPC including 269 (negligent act likely to spread infection of disease dangerous to life) and 271 (disobedience to quarantine rule). They were also booked under section 67 of IT Act for sharing the audio in the social media. However no arrests were made till Saturday evening. The man from Mandapam was among those who attended the religious conference in Delhi and was under home quarantine since March 24. "The audio was recorded when he was shifted from the Ramanathapuram GH to SMCH by road as per the standard protocol after he tested positive on April 16," Ramanathapuram district SP R V Varun Kumar said. In the three-minute audio, the man is heard accusing a group of working against them and spreading rumours as part of a big conspiracy. "I tested negative twice and am now harassed. Do I sound like an (COVID-19) affected person? I am healthy," says the man to his friend Raja. He further adds that the government is trying to win brownie points by projecting a big number of affected persons and then claiming that everyone has been cured. "Tell everyone. Let them know that all this is fake," says the man. "The audio recorded by Raja was circulated in the social media by Abdullah with intent to create unrest by depicting that people from a religion are targeted. The Covid-19 patient is trying to mislead people and trying to build a false impression on the deadly infection," Varun Kumar told TOI. A case was registered by the police based on a complaint lodged by Ramanathapuram town inspector A Jeevarathinam.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/covid-patient-two-others-booked-for-hate-audio-clip/articleshow/75227530.cms||M K Ananth
April 19, 2020||Mangaluru||Mangaluru: Illicit liquor unit busted, 2 held||MANGALURU: Excise department in Dakshina Kannada arrested two people allegedly involved in making and selling illicit liquor. The arrested have been identified as Kristan D’Souza and Kiran Kumar, residents of Ammunje, Benjanapadavu. The department officials seized and destroyed 1,200 liters of wash, 950 kg of jaggery, 500 litres of counterfeit wine and 300 litres of potato mixed wash used for making illicit liquor from the accused.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mangaluru/illicit-liquor-unit-busted-2-held/articleshow/75226260.cms||---
April 19, 2020||Bareilly||We thought we would not survive, says Covid-19 family after recovery||Bareilly: It was no less than a grand festival on Friday night at their home in Subhash Nagar - a locality which became Bareilly's Covid-19 hotspot - when all six recovered patients of the deadly disease were reunited after almost a 20-day battle. “When we learnt that all six of us have tested positive for Covid-19, we were completely shattered. After my husband was tested positive, I thought that I may be at risk, but we were shocked on learning that all of us have been infected. We thought that we would not survive the virus, but the doctor and nurses made us comfortable and assured us that we are getting best treatment and medicines,” said 28-year-old woman of their recovery and homecoming. After the family of six was discharged from district hospital, Bareilly now has no active positive case of Covid-19. On Saturday, 29 human samples for Covid-19 were tested at a laboratory of Indian Veterinary Research Institute. All of them were found negative. Recalling their struggle, the woman said, “It was tough. Though we all were in same ward, we would not touch each other’s belongings, as a precaution. We would even clean the door’s knob with sanitiser after touching it.” Praising the medical professionals, she added, “The doctor, nurses and other staff who took care of us were helpful. They would sing carols and would pray for our quick recovery. We are safe and back home because of their untiring efforts. Even after we are back home, the staff still connect with us on video call and continue to pray for our family’s safety.” The woman’s husband, who works at a Noida-based firm, was Bareilly’s first Covid-19 positive case. On his return to Bareilly, he infected his parents, wife, brother and sister. Only his two-year-old son was tested negative. The woman’s brother-in-law said, “When my family learnt that they all tested positive, they were completely shattered. I was not scared of coronavirus, but became anxious when I was flooded with calls from health department and police to enquire about how many people came in contact with us.” And he has a brief advice, “The rate of recovery of Covid-19 is high. People should not be scared.” “We have made a lifelong relationship with the patients. We worked hard to keep them comfortable. We are happy that they have recovered,” Vageesh Vaish, the doctor who treated the patients, said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/we-thought-we-would-not-survive-says-covid-19-family-after-recovery/articleshow/75227137.cms||Priyangi Agarwal
April 19, 2020||Pune||Pharmacies on radar to track patients||Pune: The city police have told pharmacy shop owners to alert cops about people who buy drugs to treat cough, breathlessness and fever in a bid to to track down Covid-19 patients. The police suspect that people may buy regular medication, readily available without prescription, to treat the symptoms instead of approaching hospitals. Joint police commissioner Ravindra Shisve issued the order on Saturday. Shop owners would have to maintain a separate register for the sale of the drugs, if they are related to the cold, breathlessness, cough and fever. The pharmacy shop owners would have to then take a photograph of the record of the day’s sale of such drugs and send it to the control room’s WhatsApp number, 897595100, every day. The record should include the person’s address and number. Medical teams would then track down the symptomatic people who may be shifted to isolation facilities or hospitals for further treatment post examination.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/pharmacies-on-radar-to-track-patients/articleshow/75227531.cms||---
April 19, 2020||Bareilly||Rapid diagnostic kits to be used to test students returning from Kota||Bareilly: Bareilly health department officials will use rapid diagnostic kits for Covid-19 to test around 177 students who are returning to Bareilly district from Rajasthan’s Kota.Uttar Pradesh on Friday dispatched 250 government buses to bring back over 7,000 students from Rajasthan’s Kota city, a country’s coaching hub. Officials said samples of students would be collected for Covid-19 test only if they would show symptoms of the disease after being tested with the rapid testing kit. Chief medical officer (CMO) Dr Vineet Shukla said, “Upon their arrival to Bareilly, a health team will check them with rapid diagnostic kits for Covid-19. If a student is tested negative by the rapid testing kit, he or she will be home quarantined. But, if someone shows symptoms, he will be shifted to institutional quarantine centre and his samples will be collected for Covid-19 test.”In a relief to thousands of families, the Uttar Pradesh Roadways Transport Corporation (UPSRTC) sent 150 buses from Agra and 100 from Jhansi to Kota to fetch stranded students, while around 100 buses are on the standby and will be sent if needed. An official said, besides driver and conductor, a police constable and a home guard would also be present in each bus.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/rapid-diagnostic-kits-to-be-used-to-test-students-returning-from-kota/articleshow/75227129.cms||Priyangi Agarwal
April 19, 2020||Dehradun||Troubled with ‘inflated’ electricity bills, Mussoorie hoteliers write to CM||MUSSOORIE: Already reeling under the current economic crisis due to Covid-19 pandemic, woes of hoteliers in the Queen of Hills have been further aggravated by what they term are inflated electricity bills sent to them for the month of March. Many hotel owners have claimed that despite limited consumption of electricity — due to low tourist footfall and subsequent lockdown — they have received hefty electricity bills. The hoteliers have written a letter to the chief minister and secretary (energy) regarding the issue and appealed to them to intervene and provide them with some relief. According to Sanjay Aggarwal, secretary of Mussoorie Hotels Association (MHA), occupancy of hotels during the first three weeks of March was very low with more than 50% hotel bookings being cancelled due to Covid-19 and then, all hotels had to be shutdown from March 22. “Given these factors, we had expected that electricity bills for March would go down by at least 50% from what we get in normal months. But we were shocked when we received bills that are even higher than what we received in the corresponding period last year,” Aggarwal told TOI. Kawal Kant, another hotelier, added, “I received an electricity bill amounting to Rs 64,000 for February and a bill of Rs 71,000 for March. These bills are highly inflated considering that electricity consumption during March was very less.” Hoteliers alleged that Uttarakhand Power Corporation Limited (UPCL) has sent the bills based on average electricity consumption during the past three months and hence, these bills were “unjustified”. Meanwhile, AK Singh, chief engineer of UPCL, told TOI that meter reading could not be taken due to lockdown and hence, bills have been generated based on “NR” or ‘no-reading.’ “If any consumer has an issue with electricity bills, then a complaint can be lodged on our helpline,” Singh added. However, the explanation of UPCL hasn’t gone down well with hoteliers. “On one hand, the state government has announced relief for consumers through deferment of fixed charges on electricity bills and on the other hand, UPCL is issuing inflated bills. This matter should be looked into urgently,” said Ajay Bhargava, vice-president of MHA.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/troubled-with-inflated-electricity-bills-mussoorie-hoteliers-write-to-cm/articleshow/75226273.cms||Anmol Jain
April 19, 2020||Thiruvananthapuram||Edu dept’s ‘BigBlueButton’ for video conferencing||Thiruvananthapuram: State general education department rolled out a free & open source software (FOSS)-based video conferencing system ahead of central government’s security warning on the use of Zoom video conferencing application, which is being widely used during the Covid-19 lockdown period. Kerala Infrastructure and Technology for Education (KITE) has customised the free software application ‘BigBlueButton’ to be effectively used for online learnings and meetings. In addition to the video conferencing facility, the BigBlueButton app also features Screen sharing, multi-user whiteboard, public chat, shared notes, etc. Besides, the application is a perfect web conferencing software for teachers, since it is fully customised for online learning activities. The application enables the teacher to share their slides, videos and audios along with sharing their computer screen (screen sharing) with their students in a live interaction mode. Further, the presentation area in the application can also be used as a white board. KITE has already integrated this video conferencing application with its KOOL (KITE’s Open Online Learning) learning management system for online trainings. Along with that, the server customization activities using the freely available source code is also in the finishing stage. Further, this facility would be extended to all teachers through the SAMAGRA Resource Portal developed by KITE. “Proprietary video conferencing applications such as Zoom often threatens the privacy of users and in such a context the BigBlueButton application is not only a unique web conferencing system for official purposes but KITE has also plans for using this application for providing training for public,” says K Anvar Sadath, CEO, KITE.tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/thiruvananthapuram/edu-depts-bigbluebutton-for-video-conferencing/articleshow/75226292.cms||---
April 19, 2020||Dehradun||U’khand students in Kota await UP-like move for their return||Dehradun: After the Uttar Pradesh (UP) government sent buses to Rajasthan’s Kota to ensure return of students from the state stranded there, several students hailing from Uttarakhand who are studying in Kota are also hoping for a similar move from the Uttarakhand government. According to a conservative estimates, more than 350 students belonging to Uttarakhand are stranded in Kota, which is the hub of IIT JEE (Joint Entrance Exam) coaching centres. Prashant Purohit, a student hailing from Dehradun, who is stranded in Kota, told TOI, “We have been staying in cramped hostels for a month now. The UP government’s operation has given hope to all students here that other state governments will also follow suit but so far, no such announcement has been made.” Similarly, dozens of students from Uttarakhand are also stranded in Aurangabad in Maharashtra. “There is no possibility of classes due to the Covid-19 pandemic, so we are just waiting for help from the state government to facilitate our return to Uttarakhand,” said Amay Singh, an engineering college student studying in Aurangabad. Meanwhile, state cabinet minister Dhan Singh Rawat told TOI, “Our government is in touch with the district administrations in Kota and other places and suitable arrangements are being made for the stranded people.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/ukhand-students-in-kota-await-up-like-move-for-their-return/articleshow/75226285.cms||Yogesh Kumar
April 19, 2020||Coimbatore||Auto driver turns midwife to help woman deliver boy||Coimbatore: Autorickshaw driver M Chandrakumar, 58, alias Auto Chandran, who wrote the novel ‘Lock Up’ based on his experience after being picked up by police for a crime he had not committed, played ‘midwife’ to a woman in labour and helped her give birth to a baby boy in Coimbatore a few days ago. Around 10.30am on Thursday, Chandrankumar was driving his autorickshaw to distribute food packets to the guest workers. He got a call from one of his friends, Palanisamy. “He asked me to come immediately to the CPI office in Thulasiammal layout near Singanallur as a woman was in labour pain and needed to be taken to hospital immediately,” said Chandrankumar. “As I was in the locality, I reached the spot in less than 10 minutes. But the woman had already passed a lot of amniotic fluid and blood. It was even difficult for us to take her inside the office. So, we dropped the plan of taking her to hospital and decided to help her give birth to the baby,” he said . The woman hesitated and tried to stop him initially. Later, she allowed him to proceed as she realised that she was giving birth to the baby and nothing else could be done. “It was a normal delivery. I did nothing but hold the baby as it came out,” he added. Palanisamy had earlier alerted an ambulance service too. An ambulance reached the spot after woman gave birth to the baby. A health worker who came in the ambulance cut the umbilical cord and wrapped the baby in white cloth. Both the mother and her infant were taken to Coimbatore Medical College Hospital (CMCH) where both of them are doing fine. The woman, Baladevi, 26, who is a guest worker from Odisha, was staying with her family in a temporary shelter near the railway track. As she was weeks away from her delivery date, May 6, her family members had not made any prior arrangements to take her to hospital. “As there was no transportation facility due to the lockdown, they didn’t know what to do when she got labour pain. They informed Palanisamy, who alerted both ambulance and me. They carried the woman across the railway track as their shelters does not have an approach road,” he said. Chandrakumar had a similar experience in the 1990s when he was riding with a pregnant woman in his auto. Based on that experience, he had penned a short story later. “The experience has come in handy now,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/auto-driver-turns-midwife-to-help-woman-deliver-boy/articleshow/75227537.cms||Nivedha Selvam
April 19, 2020||Kolkata||Little Drops makes a splash in relief ocean||Kolkata: When former principal of Asutosh College Subhankar Chakraborty established Niva Ananda Vidyalaya in Brahmapur on April 18, 2003, he came up with the idea of instituting a fund called Little Drops. The idea was to ask every student to contribute Re 1 to the fund each day he or she attended school. This fund is used to set up health camps or help people in distress. On Friday, a cheque of Rs 1 lakh was donated from this fund to the West Bengal State Emergency Relief Fund to help in the Covid-19 relief work. The octogenarian founder of the school is happy to have been able to motivate the students to contributing this way. “Students have been told not to ask their parents for the contribution amount. They often get money to buy chips and chocolates. They have been asked to contribute from that,” said the former VC of Rabindra Bharati University. Even teachers, non-teaching staffers and members of the managing committee and the trustee body have contributed to combat the deadly coronavirus. Assistant headmistress Subarna Mukherjee said, “Each classroom has a Little Drops contribution box. I have seen children come up with Rs 100 currency note and trying to drop it in the box. Later, we discovered that the money was a gift from someone. We, too, contribute to the Little Drops fund daily.” The fund has been utilized for health camps and providing relief during natural calamities. “Once a parent told us that a student had met with a road accident. Immediately, we offered Rs 10,000 from the fund,” Chakraborty said. Class-X student Anuradha Mondal is happy to have contributed to the fund. “I save the money for the tuck shop and contribute it to the Little Drops fund. I am glad that it is being utilized to support relief work during this pandemic,” she said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/little-drops-makes-a-splash-in-relief-ocean/articleshow/75227535.cms||Priyanka Dasgupta
April 19, 2020||Coimbatore||Tirupur reports 28 new positive cases, district 1||Coimbatore: A seven-year-old boy was tested positive for the novel coronavirus in the district and 28 others in the neighbouring Tirupur on Saturday, even as 23 patients were discharged from the ESI hospital, where they have been undergoing treatment for the past two weeks after they were tested positive for the virus. All the new positive cases have been admitted to the ESI Hospital. In the district, the positive case was reported from Negamam, on the outskirts of the city. A health official said, “Negamam is declared a containment zone and the boy was found to be infected while testing the residents of that area. He was neither in contact with any infected person nor has a travel history. The source of infection is yet to be traced.” In Tirupur, according to a district administration official, 11 of the 28 positive cases were attendees of Tablighi Jamaath (TJ) conference in New Delhi. “Initially, they were tested negative for the infection but during the second test, their results have become positive. Of the remaining 17, 12 are family members of the TJ meet attendees who have tested negative for the virus, and five are contacts of infected patients.” Pointing out that 21 TJ meet attendees were in quarantine in the Tirupur government hospital, the official said they were discharged on Saturday after they were tested negative for Covid-19 twice. Referring to the 23 patients, who were discharged from the ESI Hospital, a doctor said 10 of them were from Coimbatore, nine from Tirupur and four from the Nilgiris. “Most of them are attendees of TJ meet in New Delhi. They have been advised to remain in home quarantine for two weeks.” The doctor said only a few of them had symptoms, that too mild, while most of them were asymptomatic. ‘Once the patients remain asymptomatic for 24 hours, they would be subjected to two continuous tests. They would be considered for discharging only if both the test results are negative. Their throat and nasal swabs are sent to the King Institute of Preventive Medicine and Research in Chennai for testing,” the doctor said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/tirupur-reports-28-new-positive-cases-district-1/articleshow/75227541.cms||Nivedha Selvam
April 19, 2020||Madurai||Min reviews preventive measures in Madurai||(Madurai: Revenue, disaster management and IT minister R B Udayakumar reviewed Covid-19 prevention activities in the district on Saturday in the presence of district collector T G Vinay and corporation commissioner S Visakan. The minister visited the disaster management control room at the collectorate .There are 40 people including deputy collectors, doctors, police officials and local body representatives working on a rotational basis at the control room 24x7. It has received 2,199 calls from people seeking help which were attended to. The control room can be reached on numbers 0542-2546160 and 9597176061.The minister said 17,854 people from revenue, DRDA, health workers, police, town panchayat, municipality, and corporation are in the forefront of the prevention activities. As many as 10,820 people who violated the lockdown rules have been arrested and 8,966 FIRs filed against them. Fines totalling 60,82,144 have been collected. In all, 44 people had tested positive in Madurai for Covid-19 of whom 15 had been cured. There are a total of 1,512 beds in government and private hospitals. Among these beds, 500 are in the superspeciality hospital at Madurai, 200 in the old building of GRH and 100 at the Thoppur government hospital. In addition, there were 150 beds in the ICU including 120 ventilators and 489 beds in private hospitals.He said 165 areas in the district are being disinfected with the help of manual and battery-operated machines and a total of 772 streets covered. Mounted sprayers are used to disinfect 838 streets in another 216 places in containment zones. Boom sprayer is operated in 646 streets in another 106 areas in containment zones. In all, 86% of the cardholders had also received their groceries along with the Rs 1000 cash, he said. Various organisations and individuals had provided an amount of Rs 1,03,19,967 towards the CM’s fund in the district till April 17, he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/min-reviews-preventive-measures-in-madurai/articleshow/75227538.cms||---
April 19, 2020||Mumbai||Better-off residents and samaritans feed thousands in locked Dharavi||MUMBAI: These days, social worker Balraj Damargiddha is busy organizing food for thousands locked in the vast slum pocket of Dharavi, which has been identified as a Covid-19 hot zone. “Kitna bhi khana lao, kam hai (No matter how much food you bring, it is simply not enough),” he said with a sigh. In Dharavi’s sub-localities of Dambar Company, Kala Killa, Shetwadi, Medina Nagar and Social Nagar, Damargiddha has been coordinating with local NGOs and depending on contributions from better-off residents, to provide meals to the locals. So far, he has been able to rustle up 5,000 food packets every day. Ever since the lockdown was announced on March 23, life in Dharavi has centred around ensuring there is enough food for all. “Dharavi has 50,000 labourers employed in the garment industry or as daily wage earners who line up every morning at road junctions and are picked up for various works—carpentry, masonry and so on. They have no money and no ration card, and are the worst hit,” said Raju Korde of Dharavi Foundation. “People will die of starvation,” warned Korde, adding they have limited resources and the government must step up relief. He added the cooked portions provided by the government are small and not enough for one meal. Local assistant municipal commissioner Kiran Dighavkar said people have to call 1916 and depending on the number of calls, food is prepared and distributed in an area. “We have been distributing around 14,000 food packets every day. We have received help from DMart, Wadia Hospital, actor Juhi Chawla and Zomato. Meals are provided to whoever asks for food,” he said. It was only five days ago, though, that ration shops began to receive rice; each card holder is being given 5kg. “What about other ingredients and vegetables required to prepare a meal? As several parts of Dharavi, including Social Nagar, Rajiv Gandhi Nagar and transit camps have been declared containment zones, there is an absolute lockdown. The poor neither have money nor food. Where will they go? It is entrepreneurs and NGOs such as Rotary Club and Roti Bank that are providing readymade food,” said Paul Raphel, a social worker. Local MLA Varsha Gaikwad had provided 200kg of rice, which too had helped feed people, he said. Dighavkar said Gaikwad has set up several community kitchens in the area. Rapheal said it is mostly NGOs, social workers and entrepreneurs who provide two meals a day to around 10,000 people in Dharavi alone. These NGOs are equally active in Sion Koliwada, Antop Hill, Wadala, Mankhurd and Govandi. Congress’ Amit Shetty, who has been providing “kits” that comprise foodgrains, tea and oil at Sion Koliwada, said they have been paying for the food from their own pockets. “The government provides only rice and wheat. The flour mills are closed. Can people who have ration cards only eat rice? NGO-cooked meals vary from rice with vegetables and dal to sabzi with roti and the portions are bigger. So, those who have ration cards compete with those who have nothing for food,” said Damargiddha. Babbu Khan, a corporator from Dharavi, said they have to provide food for not just migrants but locals too. Raphel said if they provide 500 food packets, 200 go to local residents, as otherwise it would create unrest. In Wadala, National Market Association has been feeding more than 2,500 people two meals for the past month. “Most of these migrants are from Uttar Pradesh, Bihar, Jharkhand and Bengal. Now, with extension of the lockdown, they are heavily dependent on charity to make ends meet,” said Imran Khan, a social worker from Rafiq Ahmed Kidwai Marg, Wadala. Social workers say local politicians such as MP Rahul Shewale and Gaikwad in Dharavi and Tamil Selvan in Sion Koliwada have been providing whatever help they can but more is needed.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/better-off-residents-samaritans-feed-thousands-in-locked-dharavi/articleshow/75227551.cms||Clara Lewis
April 19, 2020||Salem||Salem gets 1,000 rapid test kits||SALEM: Collector S A Raman on Saturday received 1,000 rapid test kits (RTKs) for Covid-19. The collector handed over the kits to dean of the Salem Government Mohan Kumaramangalam Medical College and Hospital (SGMKMCH) Dr Balajinathan. Using the kits, doctors can diagnose a patient within 30 minutes, the collector said. Doctors at the hospital used the kits to test 18 people who showed Covid-19 symptoms. “All of them tested negative,” the collector said. Balajinathan said that blood and throat swabs of the 18 people will be send to Pune and Chennai to confirm the results. “So far, blood collected from 2,760 people have been tested at SGMKMCH’s Covid-19 testing lab. We also tested samples of 90 people from Namakkal and 110 from Karur.” Health department officials will use the kits to test those who have symptoms at their houses, Raman said. He requested the NGOs that are distributing food to the homeless to inform corporation officials or the district administration 48 hours before they launch the drive. “NGOs should follow the rules and regulations prescribed by the Madras high court,” he said. Meanwhile, three people who were getting treatment for Covid-19 were discharged from SGMKMCH on Saturday after they tested negative twice.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/salem/salem-gets-1000-rapid-test-kits/articleshow/75227536.cms||---
April 19, 2020||Goa||Govt seeks seamen’s details for action plan||Margao: The Goan Seamen Association of India (GSAI) has started establishing contact with Goan seafarers stranded on ships in the high seas and in various countries with a view to helping the government obtain data about them to facilitate their safe return to the country. Chief minister Pramod Sawant had earlier said that neither the seamens’ association nor any of the politicians who were demanding immediate repatriation of the stranded seafarers had shared any details about the seafarers with the government so far. The chief minister’s office of Friday wrote to GSAI asking it to provide details to the government about the stranded seafarers, including their present location and the type of assistance required by them, so as to enable the government “to form an action plan” for the purpose. The GSAI replied to the CMO that they have uploaded an “assistance form” on their website www.goanseamen.com by which the seafarers are able to get a direct link to submit their details. The details sought in the assistance form include the vessel’s name, company details, present port call, location of the seafarer, whether he is in contact with the Indian Embassy, and the type of assistance required — landing permission for charter, financial assistance or medical aid. The GSAI has already approached the International Maritime Organisation (IMO) and other maritime associations seeking their intervention in bringing back the Indian seafarers. GSAI is hoping to evacuate the seafarers during the lockdown period as once the state borders are opened, the task would become riskier.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/govt-seeks-seamens-details-for-action-plan/articleshow/75227547.cms||---
April 19, 2020||Madurai||No social distancing as GRH workers wait for bus after duty||Madurai: Workers standing close to each other while waiting for their bus after finishing duty outside the Government Rajaji Hospital in Madurai, caused concern to denizens on Saturday, who said that the government should make better arrangements for their welfare.A Asokan of Bibikulam said that the frontline health workers are doing outstanding service to the society during this Covid-19 situation and that it was the duty of every citizen to recognise their service.“I was passing in front of the hospital on Saturday and I saw a group of hospital employees standing close to one another. I became concerned as there was no social distancing,” he said. The workers looked tired and were waiting for their bus, and it was very hot. They seemed to be clustered under the shade of the building. Asokan’s friend, Ramasubramanian, who was also with him, said the workers should be given more protection even while waiting for their bus. “They should be informed when their vehicle arrives and made to come outside or provided with a shelter with chairs to ensure social distancing,” said Asokan.When the issue was taken to the notice of the Madurai district collector Dr T G Vinay, he said the administration would ensure that they get a better waiting place.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/no-social-distancing-as-grh-workers-wait-for-bus-after-duty/articleshow/75227552.cms||---
April 19, 2020||Kolkata||Jadavpur University students help sew masks, set up emergency fund||KOLKATA: A group of students, researchers and alumni of Jadavpur University are manufacturing cost-effective, reusable, three-layered masks on the design provided by Centre for Appropriate Social Technologies (CAST), JU, to help people fight Covid-19. The scheme known as ‘People’s Initiative for Technology’ has engaged four tailors — Raghunath Pramanick, Alpana Das, Supriyo Pal and Swapna Saha — whose shops have been shut since the lockdown. The group is not only helping them with raw materials, but are also working seven-eight hours a day to help them. The tailors have refused to take any wages from the students. Pramanick’s family is dependent on his savings in this hour of crisis. He said, “We are not that well off but it is important to stand by the people and fight the pandemic rather than thinking of money.” Alpana said, “We belong to a simple family and are facing hardships. But I think it is my responsibility to make these masks for the society.” JU staffer Shipra Das is also helping them make the masks. Since she sews at home, she thought of utilizing her time for the greater good. All of them are working in individual spaces following the norms. They have been provided with sanitizer, gloves and masks and are maintaining social distancing while producing these masks. Kamalesh Roy, an ex-student of chemical engineering at JU, said, “We are indebted to these people and our tech advisory team, without whom we couldn’t have started the production. Though the tailors have refused to take wages, we shall pay them. We are also planning to ramp up the production to 5,000 units per day and are looking forward to sustain the production for at least two months. The price has been fixed at Rs 20. However, those who cannot afford the masks will get them for free.” He urged people to contribute as the fund will be used to buy raw materials, creating an emergency fund for workers, to meet transportation expenses, and for disinfection and packaging.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/ju-students-help-sew-masks-set-up-emergency-fund/articleshow/75227542.cms||Dipawali Mitra
April 19, 2020||Coimbatore||Give workers full payment during lockdown, says labour union||Coimbatore: A labour union has sought payment of full wages for workers in industries during the lockdown period. They said some industries were giving full salary, while several were providing only half of the pay. In a letter to the chief minister and the minister for labour welfare, representatives of the Coimbatore District Mill Workers Union, under the All India Trade Union Congress (AITUC), pointed out that the Centre had directed industries not to terminate their employees during the lockdown period and to deem them ‘on duty’. However, several industrial units were paying their employees only half the salary, representatives of the union said. They sought the department of labour welfare to take necessary steps to direct the industries to give the full salary of March and April months to their workers. Industrialists, meanwhile, said they were facing severe fund crunch and it was not viable for them to give workers full pay. They said they have been feeding their workers and giving them essentials during the lockdown. They said the state and the Centre should support them by releasing funds to pay their workers.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/give-workers-full-payment-during-lockdown-says-labour-union/articleshow/75227550.cms||---
April 19, 2020||Coimbatore||2,000 rapid test kits arrive, to give result in 15 minutes||Coimbatore: As many as 2,000 rapid test kits (RTK) to ramp up Covid-19 testing arrived at the Coimbatore Medical College Hospital (CMCH) on Saturday. The kits will help determine whether a person has developed antibodies in blood to fight the virus, a health department official said. “The test can be done seven days after a person develops influenza-like illness (ILI) – the average time taken for the antibodies to develop. We will be conducting the tests in containment zones.” Ten areas in the city and eight in the suburbs have been declared as containment zones. “The rapid antibody test is only a surveillance test. If several people in a particular area test positive, then measures will be intensified,” the official said.  “We have been collecting nasal and throat swabs of people suspected to have symptoms. As it takes hours to know the results, we could test only a limited number of people. As RTKs will give result within 15 minutes, we can test any number of people.” Municipal administration minister S P Velumani inaugurated a walk-in sample collection kiosk (Covid Wisk) on CMCH premises on Saturday. “Swabs will be collected from the people who visit the hospital with symptoms like cough, cold and respiratory problems and send to the laboratory for testing,” the official said. Of the 2,075 people who were tested for Covid-19 in the last four days, only two were positive, the minister said. “Of the 127 people who were tested positive for the virus, 26 were discharged.” The government distributed ration products to 98% of rice cardholders and financial assistance of Rs 1,000 to 43,587 workers, 4,516 auto drivers and 7,020 street vendors, Velumani said. “The district has received Rs 11 crore as relief fund.” The minister sought the cooperation of the public to keep the situation under control and bring normalcy after May 3. Officials screened 270 guest workers staying at Bharathi Colony in Peelamdu on Saturday. The workers neither had any symptoms nor had travel history. Over 500 guest workers in the city underwent screening in the last two days.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/2000-rapid-test-kits-arrive-to-give-result-in-15-minutes/articleshow/75227545.cms||Nivedha Selvam
April 19, 2020||Mangaluru||Cancer patient gets medicine at doorstep thanks to volunteers||MANGALURU: Humanity works in the most unassuming of ways, even in the midst of a global pandemic, as a 53-year-old woman from Kumpala, on the city’s outskirts, found to her relief. In need of ayurvedic medicine that gave her some relief from the agony of bone cancer, that was in its last stage, she found the same land at her doorsteps, thanks to the Students Federation of India (SFI) and Democratic Youth Federation of India activists. Helping these activists were personnel of the fire and emergency services of Kerala and Karnataka. The woman ran out of stock after the lockdown was clamped. With her children in Bengaluru and husband overseas, procuring the medicine on her own from Palakkad district was not an option for her. When her relative explained her predicament to Madhuri Bolar, a local SFI office-bearer, she intimated the student organisation on the other side of the state border, and they arranged the medicines by contacting Sree Narayana Pharmaceuticals, and handed it over to the Kerala fire and emergency services. They transported it to Talapady at the Karnataka-Kerala border on Wednesday. The medicines were then taken by the Karnataka fire and emergency services personnel on Thursday. The ayurvedic medicines were vital for her, in that when doctors treating her, had all but given up hope of recovery, its use, based on suggestions given to her by her acquaintances, had allowed the woman to lead a near normal life, and go about her work on her own. The medicine was available at Sree Narayana Pharmaceuticals Kayarumpara, Ottapalam in Palakkad, and the woman accepted the suggestions to use it, as she had nothing to lose, her relative said. The woman has been taking the medicine since April 2019. A few months since taking the medicine, the woman was also able to drive on her own. M Randheesh of the Kerala State Youth Commission, Prashanth Kanila of the SFI and the student cadre in Kerala, helped Madhuri with her request.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mangaluru/cancer-patient-gets-medicine-at-doorstep-thanks-to-volunteers/articleshow/75226297.cms||---
April 19, 2020||Nagpur||Industrialists prepare to start units but keeping fingers crossed||Nagpur: The state government’s decision allowing manufacturing units outside the municipal limits to operate will be implemented in Nagpur district and other parts of the region too.On Friday, an order was issued to allow industries begin operations from April 20 subject to certain conditions. Following this, a meeting was held in the district collectorate on how to go about implementing it. District collector Ravindra Thakare told TOI that the order was self-explanatory and there was no need to issue any further directive. It will be applicable from the midnight of April 19, he said.Divisional commissioner Amravati Piyush Singh also said there was no need of any further order. All the industries have to do is give an online self-declaration that the conditions will be followed.A standard operating procedure (SOP) has been laid down. As per the SOP, the units will have to arrange for the stay of the workers near the factory or close by, arrange for their transport, maintain social distancing at workplace, and get the machinery and other premises disinfected. Workers living in the containment areas however, cannot be asked to report on duty.The collector stated that the industries will have to be neccsarily located outside the municipal limits.There was a mixed response among industrialists TOI talked to. “The small and mid-scale units are looking forward to begin operations, but the practical difficulties will only be known once they start,” said Nitin Lonkar, president of Butibori Manufacturers’ Association (BMA).Both Dassult Reliance Aviation Limited (DRAL) and Reliance-Thales which have their units in Mihan-SEZ have drawn up plans to start from April 20. The companies are engaged in making aircraft parts and radar respectively. DRAL is one of the biggest investors in Mihan-SEZ and a key defence industry here.O P Lohia, chairman of Indo Rama Synthetics India Ltd (IRSIL), said, “company is gearing up to start the operations. Much depends on transport. At present 95% of road transport is shut. We may not be able to operate fully unless transportation is entirely restored.”Satyanarayan Nuwal of Solar Industries, a major producer of commercial and defence explosives, also confirmed plans to start manufacturing. However, it will be limited to products that would find an immediate market such as commercial explosives used in the mining industry, he said.A member of the Ordnance Factory Board (OFB) also said that its units in the state would be started. A decision has already been taken for the factories in Madhya Pradesh. However, he clarified the organization may not be able to arrange transport for those living outside the factory townships. They would manage with the manpower living inside the townships where a majority of the workforce lives. Given the ample space available in the factories, social distancing may not be a problem, he said.What is the SOP* No worker from hotspot or containment area to be permitted to work* All areas like entrance, cafeteria, halls washroom to be disinfected* Water supply mechanism to be replaced with foot taps* Special transport for workers coming from outside, vehicles to carry only 30% to 40% passengers of their capacity* Arranging for stay of workers at the unit or close by * Mandatory thermal scanning of those entering and exiting* Gap of one hour between shifts and staggered lunch period||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/industrialists-prepare-to-start-units-but-keeping-fingers-crossed/articleshow/75227146.cms||Shishir Arya
April 19, 2020||Hyderabad||City schools ignore rights, say activists||Hyderabad: A city based child rights group filed a complaint with the education department on Saturday, alleging that several schools are violating child rights by giving homework to primary students. The activists of Balala Hakkula Sangham (BHS) said that apart from attending online classes, students are forced to complete worksheets and homework everyday. “Quite a few schools are using these worksheets and online exams to promote students to the next classes,” said Achyuta Rao of BHS. In his complaint to the district education officer of Hyderabad, Rao said action should be initiated against private school managements for conducting online exams. Rao also questioned the need to direct students to wear uniform for online classes. TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/city-schools-ignore-rights-say-activists/articleshow/75227150.cms||---
April 19, 2020||Dehradun||Rudraprayag forest division provides van panchayats with firefighting kits to combat wildfires||DEHRADUN: In a bid to combat wildfires, Rudraprayag forest division is providing free of cost firefighting kits to gram pradhans at their doorsteps across 150 highly sensitive van panchayats in the district. The move comes after Uttarakhand recorded 17 forest fire incidents on Saturday. Around 9.53 hectares of forest cover gutted in wild blaze on the day taking the cumulative loss incurred by forest department to Rs 24,880 in this “wildfire” season (usually from mid-February to June). Earlier, the department used to provide monetary support to gram pradhans for fighting wildfires. However this year, officials have decided to hand out firefighting equipment — like shovel, fire rakes, among others — to ensure active participation of the villagers in preventing forest fires and save them the trouble of purchasing equipment during ongoing Covid-19 lockdown. “Rather giving money to gram pradhans, we have decided to handover fire kits to them. Owing to the lockdown, getting adequate firefighting equipment would have been a challenge for them. Therefore, we reached out to them with equipment. We know that entire administration is busy in dealing with coronavirus pandemic and therefore, we are mentally preparing these people to combat fire alongside forest department (if and when needed),” said Vaibhav Singh, divisional forest officer of Rudraprayag. In Rudraprayag, almost 50% forest falls under these two categories, 37000 hectares forests are under Civil forests while 27000 hectares are under Van Panchayats while forest department guards 60000 hectares forests which are in reserve forest category. So a significant proportion of forest is under the control of other people therefore, van panchayats are being prepared to battle out the upcoming forest fires. And also, in Uttarakhand two categories of forests – Van Panchayats and Civil/Soyam forests - are ‘not’ guarded by forest department and they see highest number of fire incidences too. And, majority of forest fire in reserve forests reaches from either of these two types of forests. Because these two types of forests are close to human habitations. And rapid and increased interaction of people with the forests is noted in these two category of forests therefore, instances of man-made fires are also higher as compared to reserve forests. The need to give equipment at the doorstep to the villagers triggered because monetary support to pradhan often yield lesser active fire-fighting from villagers as they feel pradhan has been given money therefore it is his/her duty to take care of fires. Therefore, with an aim to involve each villager in the time of crisis different equipments in the fire kit like shovel, fire rakes etc have been provided to each van panchayat. And, officials say that in hour of crisis forest teams are called to help mitigate fires from these two categories of forests, which is most of the times too late a support. TOI sources say, knowing that forest is laced with around 1.5 lakh cubic meters of logs unattended, forest officials are taking preventive measures as much possible.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/rudraprayag-forest-division-provides-van-panchayats-with-firefighting-kits-to-combat-wildfires/articleshow/75226290.cms||Shivani Azad
April 19, 2020||Madurai||Teen’s awareness drive catches attention||Madurai: When S Chandralekha,19, a second-year student of Mannar Thirumalai Naicker college in the city, started sensitizing people about containment of Covid-19 in her native village Elumalai, located 58 kms away from Madurai, she was looked down upon by fellow villagers. They did not take her seriously given her age. But, she did not relent and continued with her work. Her persistence has started paying as people have started listening to her now and following social distancing. Armed with a public address system provided to her by the village panchayat, she goes around the village to sensitize people. While city people are well aware of the gravity of situation and follow precautionary measures at least to an extent, villagers hardly follow them. “Although the village has been brought under containment zone after a few cases of Covid-19 were detected, people were not serious. They would together and chatter without following social distancing or wearing any masks, ” she says. Chandralekha is not just creating awareness about the pandemic but is also helping people in these testing times So far, she has distributed kabasura kudineer to more than 700 people. She has distributed masks to villagers, police personnel and health workers. She has printed as many as 1,000 pamphlets with help of college faculty members and distributed it to villagers. She also occasionally joins hands with police personnel to create awareness. Her father M Selvaraj is a farm hand. Her family members discouraged her initially, but is now supportive of her work after seeing impact she has created. While she used to do everything alone, now her younger sister joins her in her social work. Chandralekha has been into social service for the past one year. She reaches out to unprivileged children, destitutes and abandoned people. It all started when she saw an elderly abandoned woman on a roadside near Thiruparankundram. She was begging for food from passersby. While many passed by without paying heed to her, Chandralekha bought her food and water. She then sat next her to listen her worries. She also bought her new clothes since the one that she was wearing was tattered. She was in the first year of her Bachelor of Social Work(BSW) then. “I did not know anything about BSW course when I came across it during admission. But, I have been enjoying studying it and would like to do further studies in same field,” she said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/teens-awareness-drive-catches-attention/articleshow/75227562.cms||---
April 19, 2020||Coimbatore||Tribals use lockdown time to stock up on forest produce||Coimbatore: The pandemic scare and the lockdown have not rendered tribals in Anaikatti and Karamadai completely jobless. Some of them are utilizing the excess time on their hands to collect leaves of the Albizia amara (Arappu) and bundles of broom grass to sell after the lockdown ends. “Most of us had been working in farms or as part of the MGNREGA and had regular jobs. After the lockdown, people did not have much to do. None of us wants to sit idle at home, so we go into the forest to collect Arappu leaves and broom grass,” said Lakshmi, a resident of Colonypudur settlement in Tholampalayam village in Karamadai. The forest surrounding her settlement is filled with Albizia amara trees. The tribal women collect the arappu leaves, dry it for a couple of days and hand it over to women’s self-help group functioning in the settlement for some money. “By doing this, we spend our time in a productive manner and also earn money,” Lakshmi said. The dried leaves are crushed to a fine powder and sold by the self-help groups as a natural conditioner, “Every year this time, about 30% of the women – elderly and those who had not taken up outside work – would work with us in collecting the leaves. But this year, the number has almost doubled. This is only the start of season, we have already collected over 2 tonnes of Arappu leaves and found orders to sell most of it after the lockdown is lifted,” said Sulochana, another resident who is also a member of women’s group – Aadhi kuttamaipu. The women get 27/kg of dried arappu leaves.Women from six tribal settlements – Senguttai, Pattisalai, Colonypudur, Seenkuli, Katasalai and Alankandipudur – in Karamadai are involved in the collection of arappu leaves. Like the women, men in Anakatti region are collecting forest produce such as broom grass. Ravi, leader of village forest committee said, “due to lockdown, we don’t have any other work. So, we climb up the Marankulam hill, spend a night and collect broom grass. We climb the hills twice in a week.” They have stored about 350 bundles of broomstick in their settlements for sale.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/tribals-use-lockdown-time-to-stock-up-on-forest-produce/articleshow/75227556.cms||Nivedha Selvam
April 19, 2020||Goa||Good at art and humour? Create cartoons on lockdown experience||Panaji: Within two days of its announcement, the ‘Who will be the next Mario Miranda’ contest has received around 100 entries from budding cartoonists. The online competition on the theme ‘Life in the time of Coronavirus’ will mark late artist’s 94th birth anniversary. “Mario’s greatest virtue was always being able to see the funny side of things. The competition is an opportunity to look at the present situation differently and not so seriously. Mario would have found humour in a queue to buy groceries or someone getting lathi-charged. Instead of everyone sitting at home and worrying, we thought this competition would keep them occupied and allow them to think of humourous things,” curator of Mario Gallery, architect Gerard da Cunha told TOI. The competition is open to the artistic with a funny bone in four age categories right from 10 years of age to those above 70 years. The last date for entries is April 30 and da Cunha, along with Mario’s two sons will judge the entries. The results will be announced on Mario’s birthday, May 2. Da Cunha said the entries that have already come and the children who sent in posters, have been told to turn them into cartoons which get the message across subtly like how Mario’s cartoons did.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/good-at-art-and-humour-create-cartoons-on-lockdown-experience/articleshow/75227561.cms||---
April 19, 2020||Nagpur||Nine, including two minors, flee shelter home||Nagpur: Nine migrant labourers, including two minors and a woman, have fled from the Bokhara-based shelter house. The labourers were natives of Rajasthan who were at the shelter home since their travel was curtailed by the lockdown. On Saturday morning, the visiting doctor at the shelter home came to know of the missing persons which housed a total of 104 migrant labourers. It is learnt they were present for the dinner the previous evening. Senior PI of Koradi police station Vazeer Shaikh is learnt to have travelled up to the Maharashtra-Madhya Pradesh border in search of fleeing labourers but they could not be traced. City police had assigned the crime branch to tackle the migrants labourers at different shelter houses in the city. The migrant labourers had been trying to run away and also turning violent in the last couple of days.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/nine-including-two-minors-flee-shelter-home/articleshow/75227164.cms||Soumitra Bose
April 19, 2020||Thiruvananthapuram||Unable to survive, UK students want to return||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM: Over thousand students from Kerala, who have been stranded in the UK, seek immediate help from the country for evacuation. Along with Keralites students, hundreds of students from other states are also stranded in the UK and they have approached the Indian embassy with pleas to arrange evacuation flight to India. After Covid-19 cases were reported in the UK and lockdown imposed in the country, many of the students who were engaged in part-time jobs such as waiters, warehouse workers and care home workers lost their jobs. Some students working in online platform are trying to survive the crisis with meagre earnings. According to Aron Samuel Georgekutty, a native of Kariavattom, Thiruvananthapuram, who is pursuing a course in artificial intelligence and robotics at University of Hertfordshire, East London, many students are struggling as there are no jobs available because of the crisis. “There are around 1,000 students from Kerala studying at Hertfordshire University and are not able to go home after flight services were cancelled. The University told the students can stay back here, so many did not think about leaving. Later, the situation got worse. Funding from the government is available for students who are in need, but we were told that it is not provided to international students. Now as the classes and exams are all held online, we can return to Kerala and study there,” said Aron. A native of Kottayam, Jijo Winny, who is pursing Masters in Cyber Security at Hertfordshire University said the students did not expect the situation to get this worse in the UK, as only a few cases were reported initially. According to Sanjay Jose Kandathil, a native of Ernakulam and another student of the university, the situation is unpredictable in the UK as cases are increasing rapidly. He works as freelance developer and designer. “Our income source is closed and we are living on a budget. I had got work to design for events and these got cancelled. I would like to stay back, if I receive some support,” said Sanjay. The situation is such that there are students who have to depend on community refrigerators run by the university, where people donate food.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/thiruvananthapuram/unable-to-survive-uk-students-want-to-return/articleshow/75226319.cms||Anasooya.S
April 19, 2020||Hyderabad||Explain steps taken to help the disabled amid lockdown: High court to Telangana||HYDERABAD: The Telangana high court has directed the state to inform it by April 22 steps it is taking to assist the disabled people during the lockdown in tune with guidelines issued by the central government. A bench of Chief Justice Raghavendra Singh Chauhan and Justice T Amarnath Goud gave this direction while hearing a PIL filed by advocate Ganesh Karnati from Uppal, who charged the state with ignoring the Centre’s guidelines and leaving the disabled to fend for themselves in an insensitive manner amid the lockdown. Kowturi Pavan Kumar, the counsel for the petitioner, told the court that though the state was claiming to be prepared to face the Covid-19 pandemic with the required quarantine centres, isolation wards, and hospitals, the administration was yet to make them disabled-friendly. The bench told him to give details of NGOs which could be entrusted with the task for the time being. “In fact, the disabled people are more susceptible to viruses like Covid-19 compared to others on account of their physical, sensory and cognitive limitations. For example, persons with visual disabilities rely on “touch functions for their mobility and day-to-day activities, thus, increasing their risk of infection,” the counsel said. They also face serious limitations in following hand washing norms and social distance norms as they are dependent on their caregivers due to their physiological constraints. Moreover, persons with intellectual impairment cannot be expected to practice self-isolation and presently many professional caregivers are reluctant to provide their services as the coronavirus is highly contagious. There is total apathy on the part of the government towards the suffering of the disabled during the lockdown,” the advocate informed the court. The Centre issued comprehensive disability-inclusive guidelines on March 26 and the state has not yet notified them in order to make them operational in the state, he said. Supermarkets could earmark specific hours for persons with disabilities, he said, citing one of the guidelines. Or, groceries and medicines should be delivered at their doorsteps apart from allowing technical personnel to reach them to repair their devices. Special passes should be given to the disabled and their caregivers, he added. He sought directions to the state to immediately implement these guidelines.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/hc-to-t-explain-steps-taken-to-help-the-disabled-amid-lockdown/articleshow/75227161.cms||Sagar Kumar Mutha
April 19, 2020||Bareilly||Three Covid-19 patients in Kheri test -ve, discharged||BAREILLY: All three Covid-19 positive patients tested negative on Saturday and were discharged from isolation ward of Covid hospital in Lakhimpur Kheri district. The three individuals belong to Bihar and took part in Tablighi Jamaat congregation in Delhi. They were found in a mosque in Dhaurahra town on March 31. All of them will be kept under quarantine at a shelter home as per norms. Kheri DM Shailendra Singh has announced that as of April 18, Kheri district doesn’t have any positive cases. Among the three Covid-19 patients, two are 19-year-olds and one of them is around 60. None of them were symptomatic and were kept in level one isolation ward of the hospital in Behjam. After testing positive, Dhaurahra town was sealed and identified as a hotspot. Medical screening of around 20,000 people was done. The samples of other Jamaat members were also sent for testing, but all the reports were negative. Nearly 238 samples were sent for testing and so far report of 213 were negative. Dhaurahra SDM Sunandu Sudhakaran told TOI, “We ensured best possible treatment for all the patients and are happy that they have defeated the virus. We will keep them at the quarantine centre for another 14 days and they may be sent back home as no complaint is registered against them."||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/three-covid-19-patients-in-kheri-test-ve-discharged/articleshow/75227153.cms||Kanwardeep Singh
April 19, 2020||Nagpur||Six-month-old tiger cub found dead||NAGPUR: A six-month-old tiger cub was found dead in the core area of the Pench Tiger Reserve (PTR), Maharashtra, on Saturday. This is the fourth tiger death in Maharashtra and the 11th in the last 18 days in the country. Since January 1, 2020, as per the National Tiger Conservation Authority’s (NTCA) official website, 27 tigers have died till now. Of the 27 deaths, 14 have been reported from tiger reserves. According to Ravikiran Govekar, the chief conservator of forest (CCF) and field director, the carcass of the tiger is two days old. It was found during patrolling in compartment No. 538 in the Salama beat which comes under the East Pench range. Govekar said only the post-mortem report will reveal the exact cause of the death. As it was evening, the post-mortem could not be performed. It will be done on Sunday. A team of wildlife veterinarians, including Dr Chetan Patond from Pench, Dr Syed Bilal from Transit Treatment Centre (TTC), Seminary Hills and Dr Dipika Mankar, livestock development officer (LDO), will perform the post-mortem as per the NTCA SOP.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/6-month-old-tiger-cub-found-dead/articleshow/75227559.cms||Vijay Pinjarkar
April 19, 2020||Erode||Tamil Nadu sculptors trek through dense forest from Karnataka||ERODE: There seems to be no end to the woes of guest workers, who are stranded in other states sans livelihood. While some are staying put at their present places, others are heading back home, no matter what all difficulties they may have to encounter en route. And in one such daring attempt at homecoming, 12 sculptors from Thanjavur, Tiruvarur and Nagapattinam districts in the state had to trek through the reserve forests in Karnataka, where they were stranded, and Sathyamangalam Tiger Reserve (STR), braving the wildlife. They walked for nearly 140km before they reached Thattakarai in Erode on Friday evening. Roped in for a temple construction work in Mandya, the 12 were left without any work following the novel coronavirus outbreak and the subsequent lockdown. M Indrajith, a native of Kumbakonam in Thanjavur district, said, “We were brought to Mandya for a new temple construction. However, we were forced to work as farm labourers for two weeks to make a living during the initial lockdown period.” According to him, the agent who roped them into the work had asked them to stay indoors after the lockdown was announced on March 24. However, they were provided food as usual. P Vijay, 28, another sculptor from Nagapattinam, said, “But suddenly the agent refused to provide us food one day, citing the curfew. We hadn’t any other means to survive there. So, we approached a local farmer seeking work, which took care of our daily requirements.” While they were expecting things to return to normalcy after April 14, they had a shock of their lives when the central government extended the lockdown by another 19 days to May 3. R Sivakumar, 29, of Thrangampadi in Nagapattinam district, said, “We didn’t find any reason to continue there after that announcement. So, we decided to leave for our native places.” They, however, had some luck as they could hitchhike some distance. They got a vegetable truck on Wednesday (April 15) that took them a nearby town. “The truck took us to Hebbachavadi, some 30km from Mandya. The truck wasn’t going any further,” Sivakumar said. From there, the 12 started walking all the way to Erode via Kollegal. It wasn’t any easier for them with danger looming at every step as they trekked through the Karnataka reserve forest and Sathyamangalam Tiger Reserve. They, however, found the journey from Kollegal to Thattakarai through the jungles thrilling. “We started walking from Kollegal on Thursday evening and reached Thattakarai at 6.30pm on Friday. We prayed for safety through the journey as we were afraid of getting trapped in front of some wild animals,” said one of them, who didn’t want to be named. When they reached Thattakarai in Erode on Friday evening, forest and police officials stopped them at the check post. On learning about their plight, the officials offered them food and shelter. Meanwhile, health department officials collected their blood samples to test them for Covid-19 the same evening. District collector C Kathiravan said all the 12 were allowed to continue their travel as they were tested negative for Covid-19. “The test results came today (Saturday) morning. We also arranged them a vehicle to drop them at their native villages.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/erode/tn-sculptors-trek-through-dense-forest-from-ktaka/articleshow/75227564.cms||---
April 19, 2020||Nagpur||Pregnant woman in dedicated unit at GMCH||Nagpur: Doctors from Government Medical College and Hospital (GMCH) medicine department as well as obstetrics and gynaecology (OBGY) department will have to take special care of the first pregnant Covid-19 patient detected in the city on Saturday. The 23-year-old woman is eight months pregnant and the first such case from Vidarbha. She was admitted at ward 25 (Covid-19 isolation) of GMCH on Saturday evening. According to an associate professor from OBGY department, her expected delivery date is in first week of May. “She already has a two-year-old child,” the doctor said.As per guidelines, the woman will be admitted in a dedicated unit to minimize the risk of transmission. Access to her isolation area will be strictly limited. Family visits will be declined. The patient will be allowed to use mobile phone to facilitate interaction with the family.As per clinical practice recommendations for pregnant women with Covid-19 released by Federation of Obstetrics and Gynaecology Societies of India (FOGSI), they do not appear to be severely unwell than other healthy adults. Doctors on duty at the Covid-19 ward said that they will have to ensure the woman doesn’t contract viral infections such as flu as maternal disease may be more severe. “It is expected that pregnant women will experience only mild or moderate cold or flu-like symptoms. If a pregnant woman has co-morbid conditions such as diabetes, hypertension, obesity, respiratory disease or is of advanced age, she is more likely to have a severe form of respiratory disease,” read the guidelines. “Preliminary research suggests that the infection is not transmitted from the mother to child by placental transfer or through secretions in the genital tract,” FOGSI has stated. WHAT FOGSI SAYS ON PREGNANT WOMEN* No effects of Covid-19 in terms of fetal abnormalities * No effects on parameters of growth or amniotic fluid * No higher risk of abortion with Covid-19 infection * No higher risk of preterm labour with Covid-19 infection * An ultrasound 14 days after infection will be done when the woman recovers||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/pregnant-woman-in-dedicated-unit-at-gmch/articleshow/75227171.cms||Chaitanya Deshpande
April 19, 2020||Goa||‘Pay salaries before moving ore’||Bicholim: Workers at a mining company in Bicholim are up in arms against the decision of the company to restart transporting royalty-paid ore without allegedly fulfilling the demands of its employees. Speaking to reporters at Bicholim, the workers’ legal advisor, advocate Ajay Prabhugaonkar said that the workers’ primary demand is that company should first pay them their full salary, followed by the arrears accrued since 2014. “Thereafter the company should also pay the workers other benefits and their bonuses,” Prabhugaonkar added. Prabhugaonkar, the worker’s association’s president Nilesh Karbotkar, secretary Kishore Lokre and other members said that till now the company has paid Rs 200 crore as financial assistance to the government against the backdrop of Covid-19 calamity, but is refusing to meet their demands. The workers warned that they would not allow the transportation of the ore unless their demands are met.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/pay-salaries-before-moving-ore/articleshow/75227573.cms||---
April 19, 2020||Madurai||Govt sanctions Rs 4.25 cr for check dam across Nambiyar||Tirunelveli: The state government has issued administrative sanction for the construction of a check dam across the Nambiyar river in Tirunelveli district at an outlay of Rs 4,25,59,000. It is in line with the assurance given by chief minister Edappadi K Palaniswami during the MGR centenary celebrations in Tirunelveli on November 12, 2017, to construct a check dam across the river at Kannanallur village in Radhapuram taluk in the district. The proposed site is five km downstream the existing Sithoor check dam. There are 12 check dams across the 48km-long river originating from Kalakkad reserve forest in the western ghats. Before flowing into the Gulf of Mannar near Thottavilai in Thiruvambalapuram village the check dams divert the river to irrigate 9,073 acres. Construction of the 140m-wide and 1.5m-tall structure is expected to benefit people in a one km radius and 404 acres using 389 borewells.tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/govt-sanctions-rs-4-25-cr-for-check-dam-across-nambiyar/articleshow/75227570.cms||---
April 19, 2020||Coimbatore||Tamil Nadu: Couple walk for 60km with kid||COIMBATORE: A three-member family, one of them a two-year-old boy, was left with no other option but to trudge all the way to Kangayam in Tirupur from Muthugoundan Pudur on the outskirts of the city in their pursuit to reach home after they were rendered penniless with their employer refusing to loan them any amount to survive the remaining days of lockdown. A native of Namakkal, 26-year-old K Dhanasekar has been working in the district for almost past five years. While he was with a mill in the city for four years, he had shifted to another mill in Muthugoundan Pudur as a loom worker seven months ago. During the first phase of lockdown, life wasn’t that hard for Dhanasekar, his wife D Sukanya and son D Aswin, who were staying on the mill premises, as he was getting money from his employer as “loan” to meet the expenses. However, things changed as the government extended the lockdown. His employer was not ready to fend him anymore. Dhanasekar said, “When my wife went to ask for money on Thursday, the employer’s mother treated her badly. Later, the employer too spoke to me in an unpleasant manner. So, we thought it was not good to stay there any longer and decided to leave for my wife’s hometown of Kottur in Mannargudi.” Dhanasekar said he had informed the agent, who had roped in to work in the mill, that he would repay the “loan” soon before they started the journey to Mannargudi. “There were no vehicles on roads even for hitchhiking. So, we decided to walk all way,” he said. The distance from Coimbatore to Mannargudi in Tiruvarur district is around 310km. On Friday, they reached Kangayam in Tirupur by walk, covering a distance of at least 60km. There were tired and unable to carry on. As luck would have it, they were spotted by local journalists and others, who provided them with food and brought the issue to the notice of Tirupur collector K Vijayakarthikeyan. The collector subsequently directed revenue officials to arrange a vehicle for them and issue them a travel pass. The couple, along with their kid, were taken to their hometown in the vehicle. “We reached our place on Friday night. My in-laws are labourers at brick kiln here. We are planning to join them,” Dhanasekar said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/couple-walk-for-60km-with-kid/articleshow/75227571.cms||---
April 19, 2020||Hyderabad||High court asks Telangana govt for details of Covid-19 health scheme||HYDERABAD: The Telangana high court has directed the state government to furnish the details of its health scheme pertaining to the diagnosis and treatment of the patients of Covid-19 by April 22. The bench of Chief Justice Raghavendra Singh Chauhan and Justice T Amarnath Goud was hearing a PIL filed by advocate P Thirumala Rao, who contended that the state has evolved its own scheme to attend to the patients. The Centre has already brought Covid-19 under Ayushman Bharat Pradhan Mantri Jan Arogya Yojana scheme, but Telangana opted out of it and evolved its own health scheme, the PIL said. The bench sought the details of that scheme. It directed advocate general B S Prasad to find out how the Telangana government is applying this scheme towards the testing and treatment of Covid-19 . Thirumala Rao told the court that while the state may think that its Arogya Sri is better than centre’s Ayushman scheme, but it should explain to the people how its scheme is superior to the central scheme. The bench said it would ascertain those details from the state and posted the case to April 22. The bench, it can be recalled, earlier called for a report from the Centre too, because the IRDA has issued a circular bringing Covid-19 under its purview. It also directed all the insurance companies to add this pandemic to their existing policies so that policy holders need not take fresh policies for this. The centre is yet to file its counter on this aspect.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/hc-asks-t-govt-for-details-of-covid-19-health-scheme/articleshow/75227175.cms||---
April 19, 2020||Nagpur||Cyber crooks blackmailing porn viewers with stolen data||Nagpur: Beating the lockdown blues by surfing adult sites may not be a very enjoyable proposition any more. Global cyber swindlers are capitalizing on such secret pleasures of people to mint money by installing malware through such sites and then blackmailing the viewers. Maharashtra cyber security cell and its city-based unit have started getting calls for assistance from such helpless netizens to save their money from the cyber rogues demanding hefty sums or threatening to ‘leak’ their online activities to the their known contacts or society at large. In one such e-mail to a victim, now in possession of TOI, the extortionist made a demand of around Rs2.21 lakh in Indian currency through Bitcoin threatening to send details of activity on a porn site and also webcam footage to all his contacts, co-workers and family members. The extortionist claimed to have procured data of the victim through a malware on a porn video site that the victim had accessed a few days ago. Sending his password details, the extortions stunned the victim stating that his browser had started working as a Remote Control Desktop (RDP) with a keylogger as he was enjoying the video clips. The mechanism gave the cyber rogue access to the victim’s computer and display screen and also the webcam. The malware also stole personal data of the victim. In the e-mail, the extortionist mentioned that he had prepared a double-screen video of which one part displayed the clip that the victim had been watching and the other projects the recording of the webcam. SP, Maharashtra cyber security cell, Balsing Rajput said such data breach or theft followed by extortion was an emerging trend with the people trying to pursue pleasure in cyberspace. “We have received around 15 such formal and informal complaints of being targeted by unknown persons for extortion using the stolen data. People should not indulge in such pursuits by declaring personal details without observing safety precautions,” he said. Rajput said the cyber cell tried to trace the source of such e-mails and took corrective measures to help the victims. In Nagpur, it’s learnt a man landed in trouble after surfing porn sites as his contacts started receiving mails from his email ID asking for money. Flabbergasted, the victim landed at the cyber security cell seeking help. An expert with Nagpur cyber security cell said adult websites were replete with malware and viruses that steal data of surfers and exploited the same. “Citizens are unaware of the practices to safeguard their passwords and email IDs from hackers and cyber crooks. Hundreds of people are falling prey to such crooks,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/cyber-crooks-blackmailing-porn-viewers-with-stolen-data/articleshow/75227173.cms||Soumitra Bose
April 19, 2020||Coimbatore||Couple walk for 60km with kid||Coimbatore: A three-member family, one of them a two-year-old boy, was left with no other option but to trudge all the way to Kangayam in Tirupur from Muthugoundan Pudur on the outskirts of the city in their pursuit to reach home after they were rendered penniless with their employer refusing to loan them any amount to survive the remaining days of lockdown. A native of Namakkal, 26-year-old K Dhanasekar has been working in the district for almost past five years. While he was with a mill in the city for four years, he had shifted to another mill in Muthugoundan Pudur as a loom worker seven months ago. During the first phase of lockdown, life wasn’t that hard for Dhanasekar, his wife D Sukanya and son D Aswin, who were staying on the mill premises, as he was getting money from his employer as “loan” to meet the expenses. However, things changed as the government extended the lockdown. His employer was not ready to fend him anymore. Dhanasekar said, “When my wife went to ask for money on Thursday, the employer’s mother treated her badly. Later, the employer too spoke to me in an unpleasant manner. So, we thought it was not good to stay there any longer and decided to leave for my wife’s hometown of Kottur in Mannargudi.” Dhanasekar said he had informed the agent, who had roped in to work in the mill, that he would repay the “loan” soon before they started the journey to Mannargudi. “There were no vehicles on roads even for hitchhiking. So, we decided to walk all way,” he said. The distance from Coimbatore to Mannargudi in Tiruvarur district is around 310km. On Friday, they reached Kangayam in Tirupur by walk, covering a distance of at least 60km. There were tired and unable to carry on. As luck would have it, they were spotted by local journalists and others, who provided them with food and brought the issue to the notice of Tirupur collector K Vijayakarthikeyan. The collector subsequently directed revenue officials to arrange a vehicle for them and issue them a travel pass. The couple, along with their kid, were taken to their hometown in the vehicle. “We reached our place on Friday night. My in-laws are labourers at brick kiln here. We are planning to join them,” Dhanasekar said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/couple-walk-for-60km-with-kid/articleshow/75227568.cms||---
April 19, 2020||Coimbatore||Agriculture dept gets ready to supply seeds, fertilisers||Coimbatore: The district agriculture department has stocked up seed and fertiliser reserves with farmers preparing fields and undertaking summer ploughing following the recent showers.The 12 main depots and 12 sub-depots in the district have personnel manning them and are ready to cater to farmers, joint director of agriculture R Chitradevi said. Fertilisers and pesticides are stocked up in primary cooperative societies and private sales points. Farmers started preparing fields after the district received rain last week, the official said. “We are expecting more showers in the coming days.”Farmers have been exempted from the lockdown to carry out summer farming. The department has asked them to follow personal distancing and safety measures such as wearing masks while they buy seeds and fertilisers. Officials said after the harvest of the rabi crop in March, fields are lying idle. “Pulses, groundnut, vegetables and fodder crops are cultivated in this season depending on the rain,” said an official with the department.To ensure that farming activities are carried out without hindrance, the department has made available the contact numbers of assistant directors (AD) of agriculture extension of each block. “While farming activities can be carried out during the lockdown, there might be local problems such as police personnel not allowing travelling in some areas. If farmers face problems in procuring seeds or fertilisers, they can call the numbers and the ADs would help them,” the official said.Farmers can contact the following numbers if they face any issues: Anaimalai and Pollachi (South) – 9442447948, Annur – 9486320064, Karamadai – 9751016200, Kinathukadavu – 9443349728, Madukkarai – 8754101966, Perianaickenpalayam and SS Kulam – 9442556138, Pollachi (North) – 7010665166, Sulur and Sultanpet – 9865678453 and Thondamuthur - 9894042204.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/agriculture-dept-gets-ready-to-supply-seeds-fertilisers/articleshow/75227565.cms||---
April 19, 2020||Ranchi||BJP MLA threatens agitation against ESL for removing 700 contractual workers||Bokaro: Lawmakers and functionaries of various political parties in Bokaro have criticised Vedanta Group’s Electrosteel Steel Limited (ESL) for removing more than 700 contractual workers from its plant situated at Siyaljori under Chandankyari block during the nationwide lockdown imposed to contain the spread of Covid-19. The company has also said it will defer payment of a portion of salaries to its officials after it curtailed production by almost 50%. Chandankyari MLA Amar Bauri (BJP) said “The company has removed about 700 labourers, mostly residents of Chandankyari, from work. This is unethical and I have asked the district administration to intervene. I have also approached ESL executives to reinstate these workers, but they have not acted upon my request yet. I will launch a massive agitation against ESL once the lockdown is lifted. Even though the Centre has appealed to business houses and companies to help their employees, ESL has decided to remove them, which goes against basic ethics.” The state’s former labour minister, Umakant Rajak, (Ajsu Party) also criticised the steel major. “During this pandemic, when common people are united to help each other, ESL is removing its workers. This is inhuman treatment of workers,” said Rajak. ESL’s public relation officer Vivek Anand said the company took certain steps to ensure critical units of the plant are operational with reduced capacity, in adherence to the guidelines issued by the central and state governments. “ESL has scaled down its operations by temporarily stopping some of the finishing lines. This is to ensure social distancing measures are followed and the reduced demand is accommodated. This has resulted in temporary stoppage in some of the contracts. ESL has urged its contractors to take care of the people asked to stay back at home at this point of time,” he added. He said that all contracts under suspension will be reviewed periodically to ensure continued support to the local community. “Our economy is passing through a tough phase with no sight of immediate revival. We are committed to serve the society by ensuring that the plant remains operational and continues to cater to the livelihood of more than 7,000 families directly and almost 15,000 indirectly,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/bjp-mla-threatens-agitation-against-esl-for-removing-700-contractual-workers/articleshow/75225783.cms||Divy Khare
April 19, 2020||Ranchi||State prepares to resume work in industries, real estate sectors||Ranchi: With the lockdown set to continue at least till May 3, the Jharkhand government has initiated steps to restart work in real estate and some key industrial and sectors as part of its strategy to resume economic activities that have been grounded since March 24 due to the curbs put in place due to contain the spread of the novel coronavirus. In tune with the Centre’s advisory on initiating work in different sectors in phased manner from April 20, two key state government departments — industries and urban development — on Saturday wrote to the stakeholders concerned asking them to prepare t0 resume operations. In a letter to all industrial and trade bodies, industries department director K N Jha granted them permission to begin operations by seeking formal consent from their respective district authorities. Jha asked them to refer to government circulars issued on April 15 on ways to initiate production and prescribed standard operating procedures to be followed to ensure social distancing, workplace hygiene and other norms to prevent the spread of the virus. Talking to TOI, deputy director of the department, Rajendra Prasad, said, “On Friday, we wrote to about two dozen industries from cement , steel and food processing sectors asking them to resume operations while following the norms. On Saturday, we issued a communiqué to all trade and industrial bodies with a clarification that they can do the same by taking consent from their respective district administrations.” Prasad said the state has given its approval for commencement of operations, but the onus lies on the district administration concerned as they have to evaluate the situation before giving the green signal. He said, “Only the district administrations can monitor whether all the norms are being followed at a particular industrial unit.” Asked on the nature of industries that are being allowed to commence operation, he said, “All industries included in the central advisory —such as food processing and manufacturing that require continuous operation, export oriented units, mining and cement among others.” The state urban development has also directed all urban local bodies to allow all real estate developers and companies to resume work from April 20. A department official said, “The department’s secretary, Vinay K Choubey, has issued a directive to all ULB on Saturday asking them to speak with the real estate developers at construction sites wherever in-situ labourers are available to begin operations from April 20.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/state-prepares-to-resume-work-in-industries-real-estate-sectors/articleshow/75225800.cms||ASRP Mukesh
April 19, 2020||Ranchi||200 govt teachers under radar for ‘fake certificates’||Ranchi: As many as 200 primary school teachers in Jharkhand are under the scanner of the department of school education for allegedly giving false information in their birth certificates and their graduation certificates. On Saturday, the director of primary education department, Aditya Kumar Anand, said, “After scrutinising their certificates for the last 10 months, the department has found mismatch in details like date of birth and marks of all the 200 teachers, of which 23 work in Ranchi district. Their certificates have now been sent to their respective universities, from where these 200 teachers have completed their graduation, for verification purpose.” Anand added, “Seeing the irregularities in their certificates, these teachers have not been paid their salaries for the last 10 months and it will be kept on hold till the universities verify their details.” Earlier, the government teachers were given their appointment letters and their salaries as soon as they joined, even before their certificates could be verified but in the process many districts recorded a huge number of forgery cases, the director informed. “We have witnessed several cases — 140 in Dhanbad and 70 in Chatra — where the teachers produced forged documents. Hence, we have decided to release their payments on completion of the verification process,” he added. The 200 teachers were recruited in May and June last year upon the orders of the high court against the vacancy released in 2015-16. Jagannath Saha, who teaches at Government Middle School, Rahe, said, “I have been teaching here for several months but I have not received my payment yet. When I asked the authorities about it, they said that they are waiting for the completion of the verification process.” The All Jharkhand Primary Teachers’ Association has appealed to the government to release the payments of these teachers. Nasim Ahmed, the association’s spokesperson, said, “There are several teachers in primary and upper middle schools who are waiting for their salary to begin. We have appealed to the department many times but they said that they are waiting for the completion of the certificates’ verification.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/200-govt-teachers-under-radar-for-fake-certificates/articleshow/75227117.cms||---
April 19, 2020||Ranchi||Family quarantined after 22-year-old dies in Dumka||Dumka: Family members of a 22-year-old youth, who died here on Thursday night, have been home quarantined and will undergo Covid-19 tests, authorities said on Saturday. Dumka civil surgeon Dr A K Jha said though the deceased did not have any symptoms of Covid-19, four members of his family have been quarantined and their samples, along with that of the deceased, sent for tests as a precautionary measure. Jha said, “The youth, from Angraidih village, had returned from Gujarat a month ago and was advised 14-day home quarantine. He showed no signs of infection, but after his sudden death, we are are not taking any chances and retesting all of them.” He added that the youth had died by the time he was taken to Dumka Medical College and Hospital (DMCH) on Thursday night. “It could also be a case of liquor death as we learnt that he consumed countrymade liquor the previous night,” Jha added. District health department officials, in the meantime, rued the delay in getting reports from PMCH in Dhanbad. DMCH superintendent Dr Ravindra Kumar said, “We are awaiting reports of 17 samples sent to PMCH six days ago. We have also sent 10 more samples on Friday. We are in a fix due to the delay and facing problems in taking follow-up actions.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/family-quarantined-after-22-year-old-dies-in-dumka/articleshow/75226138.cms||---
April 19, 2020||Ranchi||17 out of 26 social media offenders nabbed in Garhwa||Garhwa: Police have arrested 17 out of 26 persons wanted for posting objectionable and misleading messages on social media in the recent days and raids are on for apprehending the rest, SP Ashwini Kumar Sinha said on Saturday. Sinha said, “We again urge people, especially the youth, to refrain from misusing social media by spreading hatred or posting objectionable content as it is a punishable crime. People must maintain peace and adhere to protocols of the lockdown.” Garhwa DC Harsh Mangla said no Covid-19 case has been reported in the district but they are on a vigil to enforce the lockdown. He said, “Of the 12,341 persons who had come from abroad, 9,005 were kept under home quarantine and 3,336 in government quarantine centres. The number of home quarantine is currently zero while the number of people under government quarantine is 568.” He reiterated that they have enough stock of foodgrain and essential items. Civil surgeon Dr N K Rajak said, “So far, 80 samples have been sent for tests. Of these, 50 tested negative while reports of the rest are awaited.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/17-out-of-26-social-media-offenders-nabbed-in-garhwa/articleshow/75227200.cms||---
April 19, 2020||Ranchi||One more with Tablighi links +ve, state Covid count at 33||Ranchi: A 33-year-old man from Trinidad & Tobago islands, who was a part of the 17-member foreigners’ group of the Tablighi Jamaat, tested positive for Covid-19 on Saturday, taking the total number of cases in the state to 33. The man tested positive in the third test conducted on him in 20 days after he tested negative in the first two — on March 31 and April 7. Soon after he tested positive on Saturday, the man was shifted from the Khelgaon quarantine centre to the Covid-19 block at Rajendra Institute of Medical Sciences (Rims). Meanwhile, the result of the third test on the Malaysian women, the state’s first case, who tested positive on March 31, is still awaited. Talking to TOI, Dr Santosh, who looks after the records at the Khelgaon quarantine centre, said, “The foreign national was shifted to Rims on Saturday afternoon after he tested positive.” Meanwhile, medical staff and others deployed at the quarantine centre are apprehensive about the 92 people released from the centre. “If one of the foreigners can test positive twenty days after being quarantined, we do not know what might happen to those who have been sent home after completing their 14-day quarantine here,” said a staff at the Khelgaon quarantine centre on condition of anonymity. Allaying fears, district administration officials said those released have no risk as they were accommodated in separate blocks from the ones who had Tablighi links. Ranchi SDM Lokesh Mishra said, “The foreign nationals with links to Tablighi Jammat were housed in a separate block from others who were tracked during contact tracing exercises. Thus, there is very little chance that they had come in contact with the 33-year-old foreign national who tested positive on Saturday.” \Meanwhile a retired Jharkhand administrative officer aged 73 years passed away in a Gurgaon based hospital after being tested positive for Covid-19 there. The 73 year old had suffered a brain stroke on April 2 at his flat in Madhumati Apartment in Joda Talaab area, Bariatu after which he was admitted at Lake View Hospital in the same area. He was airlifted to Medanta hospital in Gurgaon on April 16 after his condition deteriorated . Soon after the patient was tested positive for COVID-19 on Saturday, back here in Ranchi, the district administration was asked to take necessary precautionary measures and to screen and get samples of people who have had shared contact with the deceased. Acting on the information a district administration team along with health workers reached Madhumati apartment in Joda Talaab area and started a screening and contact tracing exercise. Apart from that they also locked down Lake view hospital which was used by the retired official for his treatment before moving to Gurgaon. “We have started contact tracing for all those who might have come in contact with the 72 year old who passed away on Saturday during treatment. Lake view hospital will be closed from immediate effect and we have started screening and sample collection exercise at his residential society and at the hospital,” said Ranchi DC Rai Mahimapat Ray. Meanwhile district administration official also urged people to come forward and contact the Ranchi district helpline number -1950 if they feel they had come in contact with the deceased.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/one-more-with-tablighi-links-ve-state-covid-count-at-33/articleshow/75227166.cms||Gaurav Pandey
April 19, 2020||Ranchi||Personal grooming takes a hit during lockdown||Ranchi: As all salons and beauty parlours remained shut due to the lockdown, most Ranchiites are facing problems when it comes to personal grooming. While boys are sporting long hairs with difficulties in maintaining them, some others, who take care of their special hair styles, are on the verge of tears. Girls, who needed hairdos, facials, waxing and other treatments, are also relying only on home remedies. Abhishek Singh, an entrepreneur and resident of Dibdih, who loves to keep his hair short and simple, said he is finding it tough to maintain his long hairs. He said, “Long hairs are very irritating. I was about to go for a haircut but the lockdown was announced. Now, I have to do shampoo and apply oil regularly to keep them smooth.” Vishal Dangi, a post-graduate student of Ranchi University, said, “I love colouring my hairs with different shades, but they are now fading. I can only wait for the salons to reopen.” He added, “My parents do not like my hair now. Earlier it was fine and most of the time, I was outside. But now, I am getting regular sarcastic comments.” Girls are also at the receiving end during the lockdown. Suffering from hair split ends to eyebrows which had not been threaded for nearly a month, they are frantically calling up friends and beauticians of the now shut parlours to get advice. Deepti Mehta, a post-graduate student of the Central University of Jharkhand, said, “I have no other option but to rely on home remedies. I am using eggs for my hairs and fortunately, my mother is helping me in threading my eyebrows.” Beauticians said they are getting regular calls from their customers, inquiring about the opening of the parlours shops and seeking advice for home remedies. Poonam Gupta, owner of a beauty parlour at Kutchrey Road in Ranchi, said, “On an average, I am getting 10-12 calls per day. I am busy advising them on how to groom themselves at home and if they need my personal care, I requested them to wait for lockdown to complete.” Gupta said she had to deny home service requests, considering the infection risks.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/personal-grooming-takes-a-hit-during-lockdown/articleshow/75227186.cms||---
April 19, 2020||Ranchi||Covid-19 duty constable attempts suicide||JAMSHEDPUR: A Jharkhand Armed Police (JAP-5) constable, posted on Covid-19 duty at Ghodabanda police station, on Saturday fired four shots at himself from his service weapon (AK-47) in a bid to kill himself, allegedly over a family dispute. Puran Chandra Munda is currently at TMH and his condition is critical, police said. Officer-in-charge of Ghodabanda police station B R Oraon said, “Puran fired four bullets at himself, of which three bullets hit his chest while the fourth one hit another part of his body.” He added, “Our preliminary investigation indicates that Puran was upset because of some family issue.” Puran stayed at the police barrack while his family stayed in Chakulia. His daughter is currently stranded in Kota, where she’s studying in a coaching centre for MBBS aspirants, because of the ongoing lockdown.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/covid-duty-constable-attempts-suicide/articleshow/75227212.cms||---
April 19, 2020||Jamshedpur||Jharkhand police seek insurance cover for their personnel||RANCHI: The police department has requested the state government to provide insurance to its police personnel on the lines of the Pradhan Mantri Garib Kalyan Yojana (PMGKY), which covers health workers fighting the Covid-19 crisis. The request was made after the Jharkhand Police Association (JPA) made recommendations in this regard, saying that its personnel are also on the frontlines in trying to contain the infection. JPA president Yogendra Singh said, “The police headquarters has sent a letter to government requesting it to consider our demands. The department has also asked for allotment of around Rs 60 lakh for distribution of safety materials, including sanitizers among the personnel engaged in the task.” The association had earlier written to the police headquarters and the additional chief secretary of home and disaster management department, seeking the insurance cover. Singh said the police personnel, who are working hard to implement the lockdown and ensure safety of citizens, are also under threat of getting infected by coronavirus during their job. Under the PMGKY, the Centre is providing insurance cover of Rs 50,00,000 to each health worker engaged in fighting the coronavirus infection. Speaking on the issue, director general of police M V Rao said, “The government is already looking into the request of police as the personnel are working under hazardous circumstances.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jamshedpur/police-seek-insurance-cover-for-their-personnel/articleshow/75231391.cms||---
April 19, 2020||Ranchi||Jharkhand police seek insurance cover for their personnel||RANCHI: The police department has requested the state government to provide insurance to its police personnel on the lines of the Pradhan Mantri Garib Kalyan Yojana (PMGKY), which covers health workers fighting the Covid-19 crisis. The request was made after the Jharkhand Police Association (JPA) made recommendations in this regard, saying that its personnel are also on the frontlines in trying to contain the infection. JPA president Yogendra Singh said, “The police headquarters has sent a letter to government requesting it to consider our demands. The department has also asked for allotment of around Rs 60 lakh for distribution of safety materials, including sanitizers among the personnel engaged in the task.” The association had earlier written to the police headquarters and the additional chief secretary of home and disaster management department, seeking the insurance cover. Singh said the police personnel, who are working hard to implement the lockdown and ensure safety of citizens, are also under threat of getting infected by coronavirus during their job. Under the PMGKY, the Centre is providing insurance cover of Rs 50,00,000 to each health worker engaged in fighting the coronavirus infection. Speaking on the issue, director general of police M V Rao said, “The government is already looking into the request of police as the personnel are working under hazardous circumstances.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/police-seek-insurance-cover-for-their-personnel/articleshow/75227230.cms||---
April 19, 2020||Vijayawada||Will Next Academic Year Also Bear Covid Brunt?||Vijayawada: The Covid-19 outbreak and extension of the lockdown have not only cast uncertainty on the current academic year, but also the next academic year, 2020-21. This may force the education department to revise its academic calendar. Andhra Pradesh is yet to conduct the class X exams, while the students of class VI to IX were promoted to the next class based on their attendance. The class X exams have been deferred twice already – once due to the then proposed local body elections and later due to the lockdown. The spot valuation of intermediate (10+2) answer sheets that was scheduled to begin from March 21 has been suspended amid the coronavirus scare. The state varsities have also put the year/semester-end exams for engineering, graduation and post-graduation courses on hold. Even entrance examinations have been deferred due to the Covid outbreak. Even if the lockdown were to be lifted on May 3, students may need some time to cope with the situation and prepare for the exams. The year/semester-end examinations were supposed to be concluded by the first week of April, followed by various entrance exams. However, authorities concerned have been unable to chalk out any plan with regard to the rescheduling due to the unprecedented situation. But the students, now limited to their homes, are anxiously waiting for the exam schedules. As the new admissions are related with the results of year-end and/or entrance tests, this may hamper the planning for the new academic year. The University Grants Commission (UGC) has recently constituted two separate committees. While one committee will look into the matters pertaining to the exams and academic calendar, the other committee will prepare an online education strategy. Speaking about the scenario, director of Indian Institute of Petroleum and Energy, VSRK Prasad said the educational institutions have to maintain social distancing even after the lockdown is lifted.  “If the year-end and entrance exams can be concluded by June, the classes can begin by August after completing the counselling and admission process. This way, the educational institutions can limit the loss of new academic year to a few weeks,” said Prasad. Explaining about the measures taken during the lockdown at the IIPE, the director added that IIPE has preponed the summer vacation and scheduled the exams for June end. “Meanwhile, the faculty have been conducting online classes,” he said. State education minister A Suresh two days ago made it clear that they will take the final call on exams following the lifting of the lockdown, adding that they have directed the varsities to conduct online classes meanwhile. The AP school education department has provided e-content to class X students apart from telecasting two hours of video lessons on Doordarshan to prepare them for the public examinations at homes.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/will-next-academic-year-also-bear-covid-brunt/articleshow/75226389.cms||Umamaheswara Rao
April 19, 2020||Vijayawada||Andhra Pradesh to have 12 testing labs in next two days||VIJAYAWADA: The state government is working towards increasing the number of Covid-19 testing labs in Andhra Pradesh. The state currently has seven labs. The number of labs is slated to go up to 12 within the next two days, officials informed chief minister YS Jaganmohan Reddy during a review meeting on Saturday. The CM reviewed the facilities at isolation wards and quarantine homes. Officials told the chief minister that Tirupati will have two additional labs and Kurnool, Prakasam and Srikakulam will have one additional lab each within the next two days. Referring to the ‘telemedicine centre’ introduced by the state government, officials informed the CM that the facility has drawn a good response and the centre has received 5,219 missed calls from across the state so far. The staff at the centre have made calls and offered medical services, including prescriptions and advice. The chief minister directed officials to ensure better facilities at isolation wards and quarantine centres across the state. He said that he wants regular monitoring of food and medical services being provided at these centres. Deputy chief minister Alla Kalikrishna Srinivas (Nani), minister Botcha Satyanarayana, chief secretary Nilam Sawhney, DGP Gautham Sawang, health special chief secretary KS Jawahar Reddy and other senior officials were present at the review meeting. Later, the chief minister held a review meeting on revamping of government hospitals under the Naadu-Nedu programme. He told officials that the government would spend Rs16,000 crore to revamp hospitals across the state in a bid to provide better healthcare to the people. Jaganmohan Reddy told officials to begin construction of village clinics and take up repairs at all primary health centres (PHCs) and government hospitals in the state.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/state-to-have-12-testing-labs-in-next-two-days/articleshow/75226405.cms||Gopi Dara
April 19, 2020||Vijayawada||YS Jaganmohan Reddy requests Assam CM to allow trucks from Andhra Pradesh||VIJAYAWADA: Chief minister YS Jaganmohan Reddy on Saturday reached out to his Assam counterpart, Sarbananda Sonowal, on phone and requested him to allow trucks from Andhra Pradesh stranded at the border and open fish markets in Assam. Assam is one of the largest importer of marine products from Andhra Pradesh and due to the lockdown many trucks carrying fish and other marine products are stranded at Assam’s border. Sonowal has responded positively according to a statement from chief minister’s office and assured that the trucks carrying marine products will be allowed into Assam without any hassles. Sonowal requested Jagan to help the Assamese stranded in AP. The chief minister assured him of all possible help to the Assamese, either by rehabilitating them or sending them back their homes safe.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/jagan-requests-assam-cm-to-allow-trucks-from-ap/articleshow/75226424.cms||---
April 19, 2020||Vijayawada||Kurnool district reports third Covid-19 death, six new cases||TIRUPATI: Kurnool district reported its third Covid-19 death and six new cases on Saturday, taking the number of cases in the district to 132, the highest in the state. Sources in the district administration said a 60-year-old Covid-19 patient, a resident of Budhavaripeta in Kurnool, died owing to complications caused by comorbidities. The patient died while being shifted from Viswabharathi Covid-19 hospital to the government general hospital in Kurnool on Saturday. After the death was reported, disrict collector G Veerapandian appointed an expert committee of doctors to analyse the medical condition of all Covid-19 patients at levels 1 and 2 Covid hospitals in the district and make arrangements to shift them to the state Covid-19 hospital at Sri Padmavathi Medical College in Tirupati, if needed. The collector said the administration has initiated measures to conduct rapid tests across the district from Saturday. “Everyday 300 samples will be tested at the government hospitals at Kurnool, Nandyal, Banaganapalle and Adoni. People should not approach the government hospitals to get their tests done but the medical officers at the ground level will be the ones who will refer the suspected patients to the respective hospitals for Covid-19 medical screening,” said the collector. Kurnool range DIG P Venkatarami Reddy and SP Kaginelli Fakeerappa inspected lockdown measures across the district on Saturday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/kurnool-district-reports-third-covid-19-death-six-new-cases/articleshow/75226434.cms||Sandeep Raghavan
April 19, 2020||Visakhapatnam||Visakhapatnam: Coffee cultivation in Araku valley escapes lockdown unscathed||VISAKHAPATNAM: Coffee plantations in the Araku valley have escaped the brunt of the lockdown imposed to check the spread of Covid-19 as there is no apprehension that production will fall once the lockdown is lifted. “By the time the lockdown was imposed, the season to pluck the coffee fruit was over. Most farmers had sold their quotas of fruits and those had gone for processing. In no way will the lockdown hamper production of coffee from the valley,” DK Balaji, project officer for the Integrated Tribal Development Agency (ITDA) told STOI. Farmers normally pluck the coffee fruit by February or at the latest, in March. The dried fruit is then pulped, roasted and ground to produce the coffee powder. The processing can be done at home and there is no restriction on carrying out this task during the lockdown. The processed powder is next packaged and sent to retail markets in early June. The history of Araku Coffee dates back to 1898, when a British official introduced coffee plantations in the valleys of Andhra Pradesh.  Post-Independence, in 1985, the Girijan Coffee Cooperative Development Corporation (GCCDC) was formed and the cultivation of coffee was taken up on 5,000 acres of plantation land in the Araku valley. Later, in 1997, employees of GCCDC were deployed to ITDA, which then took up the task of expanding coffee cultivation. At present, coffee is cultivated one one lakh acres in the valley. The lands are maintained by tribal farmers. “Villagers of around 1,140 villages under 200 gram panchayats are involved in the job of coffee cultivation. It is good that there is no effect on the farmers belonging to poor tribal communities,” said Balu Gadi, who runs an NGO in the Araku region.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/visakhapatnam/coffee-cultivation-in-araku-escapes-lockdown-unscathed/articleshow/75226444.cms||Arpit Basu
April 19, 2020||Visakhapatnam||Vijayasai counters Oppn claims over govt’s handling of Covid-19||Visakhapatnam: YSRC general secretary and Rajya Sabha member V Vijayasai Reddy on Saturday condemned the allegations levelled by opposition leaders over the government’s handling of the Covid-19 crisis in the state. Stating that he would give out all details on Sunday, Vijayasai said TDP president N Chandrababu Naidu made the state exchequer pay for his properties in foreign nations. “Naidu should first come out of his house and check the well being of people before making statements. At a time when the state is bearing the brunt of coronavirus, Naidu is sitting in the comfort of his house in Hyderabad and making political statements. Is he the opposition leader of Telangana or AP?” Vijayasai asked. The YSRC leader also participated in the distribution of essential commodities to people at Chinna Waltair in Vizag and Mogalipuram in Pendurthi assembly constituency. He warned stern action against miscreants if they attack village volunteers who are involved in the distribution of essential services. “Action would be taken against the henchmen of (former MLA) Gandi Babji who attacked village volunteers in Mogalipuram village,” he said. On Friday, former TDP minister Bandaru Satyanarayana Murthy had alleged that the state government has been misleading people by furnishing false details on the number of positive cases in Visakhapatnam district. The TDP leader had claimed that over 80 samples were sent for tests from Vizag several days ago, but not a single result has been announced so far.  At a time when the state is bearing the brunt of coronavirus, Naidu is sitting in the comfort of his house in Hyderabad and making political statements. Is he the opposition leader of Telangana or AP?||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/visakhapatnam/vijayasai-counters-oppn-claims-over-govts-handling-of-covid-19/articleshow/75226466.cms||---
April 19, 2020||Business||With $4 billion Chinese investment, desi start-ups wary of FDI-policy tweak||BENGALURU/NEW DELHI: Start-ups are wary of the government move to change the FDI policy in an attempt to restrict investment from China. The move could lead to a further slowdown of FDI investments in an already tough year coming through private equity and venture capital funds, especially in India’s startups, investors told TOI. Chinese investments in India’s startup ecosystem were also reported to have risen to $3.9 billion in 2019, up from around $2 billion in the previous year. A majority of India’s most valued internet companies — Flipkart, Paytm, Ola, Byju’s, Zomato, Bigbasket, Dream11 — count either Alibaba Group or Tencent, two major Chinese internet conglomerates, as shareholders. “The new FDI guidelines essentially imply Chinese capital would require prior government approval. In effect, given the uncertainty around approval, startups will shy away from Chinese capital. In the immediate future, this could impact PhonePe and potentially Paytm at a later date. ‘BharatPe’ thankfully has quality India, Singapore and US VCs. We don’t have a single Chinese investor,” said BharatPe CEO and co-founder Ashneer Grover. Over the last few years, Chinese capital has come to replace American funds. In fact, 18 of the 23 Indian unicorns (startups with over $1 billion value) have Chinese investors. “Till a few years ago there the US was the only major pool of capital till China also emerged as a major option. With this move suddenly one major pool of capital gets restricted as funds being raised from China will also be under question,” said a venture capital investor who has several Chinese firms as co-investors in his portfolio companies. It is also likely to change the way founders think, as many were sourcing investments from China not just for capital but also to learn best operational strategies. For instance if a company is getting offers from investors from USA and China, then the former will become the default preference. Another area to watch will also be how the notification is interpreted for Chinese companies like TikTok which directly operate in India.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/with-4-billion-chinese-investment-desi-start-ups-wary-of-fdi-policy-tweak/articleshow/75228027.cms||---
April 19, 2020||Delhi||Delhi: Food inspector’s father dies; 700 school staffers on home quarantine||NEW DELHI: A massive containment drive has begun in West Delhi’s Hari Nagar after the death of the father of a food supply inspector's (FSI) due to Covid-19. Around 700 staff members of 13 schools in the area have been asked to go on home quarantine, senior officials from the South Delhi Municipal Corporation said on Saturday. The food inspector had frequented these schools, used as food distribution centres for the needy. Out of these 13 schools located in areas like Uttam Nagar, Nawada, Rajapur Khurd, Bindapur, six are in the west zone, officials said. “There were around 300 staff members engaged in food distribution in these six schools and they have been told to undergo home quarantine for 14 days. They will be monitored regularly to check for symptoms like fever, dry cough or breathlessness. New staff will be put on duty in these schools,” they said. While the inspector was deputed in circle number 33, he had also come in contact with inspectors of two other circles — 31 and 37. The number of people in home quarantine may go up as contact tracing is on, the officials said. Many civic staff ‘scared’ families may be infectedA senior officer in the food supplies and consumer affairs department has written to the district magistrate of the West zone that staff members who had come in contact with the person were “scared” and “worried” that they and their “families could have contacted the contagious disease through human chain”. Besides the 13 schools, places that are being examined include two private stores in Palam Colony and Uttam Nagar, 41fair price shops and multiple food and supply offices. “The food and supply department has asked all the first contacts to go for mandatory quarantine and the food safety officer and the food safety inspector for testing. All those who interacted directly with the inspector should go for quarantine. The inspector who interacted with teachers should draw up a list of schools so that further advice can be given,” a letter, signed by the special commissioner of department, stated. They have also been asked “update” their status on Aarogya Setu app. In order to avoid mass gathering, only two sons of the deceased have been given permission to perform the last rites and asked to wear gloves and masks. “The body will be handled by hospital staff,” the letter stated.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/delhi-food-inspectors-father-dies-700-school-staffers-on-home-quarantine/articleshow/75228072.cms||Paras Singh
April 19, 2020||Chennai||Two Madras HC lawyers donate Re 1 for lockdown relief, bar council to give them ‘certificate of appreciation’||CHENNAI: How low can someone stoop to belittle people’s collective effort to fight the fallout of coronavirus? Ask two lawyers of the Madras high court. They ‘donated’ Re1(Rupee One Only) to the lockdown relief fund of the Bar Council of Tamil Nadu and Puducherry. Two other advocates have ‘donated’ Rs 10 (Rupees 10 only) each. These princely sums were transferred to the council’s bank account through e-transfer mode. The council, which has mobilised more than Rs60 lakh so far, has now decided to acknowledge these ‘donations’ and issue a certificate to these ‘star donors’ appreciating their ‘spirit of giving.’ It has already published the ‘donations’ along with the bank transfer details on its website. Vice-chairman of the Bar Council of India (BCI) and senior advocate S Prabakaran said details of all the four lawyers have been traced, and they would be given the certificate in appreciation of their attitude towards the lockdown relief fund. Bar Council of Tamil Nadu and Puducherry started the fund collection drive in response to calls from different sections of the legal fraternity highlighting the pitiable economic condition of hundreds of lawyers across the state due to the lockdown. Justice S M Subramaniam kicked off the campaign by donating Rs2.5 lakh to the fund. Several top lawyers have donated up to Rs5 lakh each. Of the 216 donors, two have given Re 1 each and two others have donated Rs10 each, Prabakaran said, adding that while one person has transferred Rs101, another two people have sent Rs200 each. Others have donated ₹500 and more. It’s like making a mockery of the exercise, said R C Paul Kanagaraj, Bar Council member. It’s like making a mockery of efforts taken: Bar memberThe former president of Madras High Court Advocates Association (MHAA), who first requested the council to float a cash relief scheme for indigent lawyers and then filed a writ petition in the Madras high court, condemned the Re1 ‘donation’. “Donation is a voluntary act. One may or may not agree with Good Samaritan initiatives. One may or may not make any contribution. But it is not fair to humiliate the very initiative by donating paltry sums and making a mockery of the exercise,” Paul Kanagaraj said. Since the lockdown came into force, several representations were given to government and the bar council by lawyers, and cases, including one filed by senior advocate A E Chelliah, demanded relief ranging from Rs10,000 to Rs20,000. Bowing to the pressure, the council floated the fund with Justice Subramaniam’s contribution.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/tamil-nadu-2-lawyers-donate-re-1-for-lockdown-relief/articleshow/75228080.cms||A Subramani
April 19, 2020||Delhi||Delhi: 45-day-old infant becomes India’s youngest Covid-19 casualty||NEW DELHI: A one-and-a-half-month-old child admitted at Delhi’s Kalawati Saran Children’s hospital became India’s youngest Covid-19 victim on Saturday. Sources in the hospital, one of Asia’s biggest for children, told TOI another 10-month-old child who is Covid-19 positive is also admitted there. Three days ago, a senior resident doctor was found positive for Covid-19. Later, when persons who had come in his contact were tested, one more doctor, three nurses and a few other staff members tested positive for the disease. As these doctors and nurses were involved in the care of children admitted in the hospital, sources said, the children were tested too. Other kid stable, says docTwo children admitted in the hospital tested positive, of which one died on Saturday. The other one is stable,” said a senior doctor, who did not want to be identified. He added that more than 30 staff members of the hospitals and patients were tested and many of them tested negative too. “Some of the other children admitted in the hospital are too small and on ventilator support. We are making arrangements to place them in safer areas, maybe another hospital with equivalent facilities, to reduce the risk of infection among them,” authorities added. Earlier, a 14-month-old baby boy, who had tested positive for novel coronavirus in Gujarat’s Jamnagar district on April 5, died of multiple organ failure. The toddler, son of a migrant labourer-couple having no recent travel history, died on April 8 at a government hospital in Jamnagar. Local authorities said the child was in a critical condition ever since he was admitted to the hospital. The boy, who tested positive for novel coronavirus two days ago, was as on ventilator support and eventually died due to multiple organ failure, the hospital said. in a statement. “Children are usually less likely to develop complications even if they get Covid-19. Those with existing illnesses may not be as fortunate though,” epidemiologists say. A 10-month-old child of a nurse working at AIIMS has also tested positive for Covid-19, sources said. Kalawati Saran Children’s hospital is the second government-run hospital where a significant number of cases of Covid-19 have been confirmed among the staff members and patients. Earlier, more than 30 nurses, doctors and three patients admitted at Delhi State Cancer Institute had tested positive for the disease. Two cancer patients, who contracted the infection, died within a fortnight of the diagnosis.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/delhi-45-day-old-infant-becomes-indias-youngest-casualty/articleshow/75228090.cms||Durgesh Nandan Jha
April 19, 2020||Kolkata||West Bengal: Testing rises to 400 a day; 23 new Covid cases, toll now 12||KOLKATA: The state government has ramped up “trace and test” in the containment zones spread over Kolkata, Howrah, North 24 Parganas and Purba Medinipur, taking the average Covid testing figures a day to 400 when the initial test figures were 50 to 60. The situation in Howrah remains critical where 10% of the 580 samples tested have come out to be positive. Bengal on Saturday recorded 23 more cases over the past 24 hours, taking the number of total active cases to 178. Two more deaths were recorded, taking the total toll to 12. “A total 4,630 samples have been tested so far that boils down to 400 tests per day. We will be adding to the testing capacity by 50 when the testing laboratory in Malda becomes operational. Most of these samples are being tested at NICED and SSKM. Each of them has a capacity of testing 100 samples,” chief secretary Rajiva Sinha said at Nabanna on Saturday. The chief secretary was “shocked” to hear claims by a section of people that a laboratory can test 1,000 samples a day. The state government has also applied to the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) seeking permission for setting up more laboratories in a bid to put to rest the public complaint that Covid tests are not being done in the state at the optimal level. “We have already applied to the ICMR for three more laboratories at Burdwan, Durgapur and Murshidabad because it takes time to bring samples to Kolkata,” Sinha said. The chief secretary has urged the eight functioning laboratories in the state to run in double shifts that may help to scale up the testing of swab samples further. According to the chief secretary, the state has no problem conducting rapid tests in the containment zones. “We are open to suggestions and have no problem conducting rapid tests. But the rapid test kits from the Centre are yet to reach the state,” Sinha said. The chief secretary took stock of the containment plan with the district health officials, medical superintendent cum vice-principals of hospitals, and Swasthya Bhavan officials in a video conference on Saturday. The plan according to the chief secretary has three layers — enforcing the complete lockdown, ramping up trace and test of residents and a coordinated action by multiple agencies to send the Covid positive cases to Covid hospitals, and isolating the other members of the family. Sinha claimed that the state has no dearth of Covid hospitals and beds to treat patients. As of now, the situation hasn’t got worse in districts from where Covid cases were reported. “No fresh Covid case has been reported from Kalimpong since April 2, and from Jalpaiguri since April 4. East Midnapore hasn’t reported a case since April 11, while there has been no fresh case from north 24 Parganas since April 17,” Sinha said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/testing-rises-to-400-a-day-23-new-covid-cases-toll-now-12/articleshow/75227407.cms||---
April 19, 2020||Mumbai||Maharashtra says five new deaths in Mumbai, BMC says only 4||MUMBAI: Barely 24 hours after registering a huge dip in new Covid-19 cases, Mumbai upped its tally by almost 20% when BMC officials added 389 cases to the city’s 2,000-plus tally so far. The state tally too went up by 328 cases — the third highest 24-hour increase — to reach 3,648 patients. The highest tally was 352 (which included 242 of Mumbai) on April 13, and the second highest was 350 (including 216 of Mumbai) on April 14. A BMC official said the 389 cases — the highest increase in a 24-hour period for Mumbai — was due to the addition of 302 cases tested in two private laboratories between April 12 and 15. “The results of private laboratories are added periodically because we cross-check details,” said a senior BMC official. On Friday, the Mumbai tally rose by just 12 cases — an almost 93% drop over the previous day. As BMC and state officials compute the daily rise at different times of the day, the state tally only showed a 183-case increase in Mumbai’s tally, taking it to 2,168 on Saturday. The computation of Covid-19 numbers by both the civic body and state is rigid: while BMC revised its initial death toll on Saturday from five to four as a patient had tested negative, the state decided to go with the initial toll as “changes take some time to reflect.” On Saturday, the number of deaths, in single digits for the past three days, climbed to 11 across the state, including four in Mumbai. The case fatality rate for the state fell from 6.05 on Friday to 5.78; the rate for Mumbai correspondingly dropped from 5.85 to 5.55. In Mumbai, three women -- with comorbidities such as hypertension, diabetes and asthma and in the 55-60 agegroup -- were among the four dead. A 65-year-old male died within 24 hours of hospitalisation at Kasturba Hospital. On Saturday, 34 patients were discharged, taking the number of recovered people to 365. Pune registered 78 cases and four deaths. One death each was reported from Thane and Aurangabad. The state health officials said 82% of the total dead patients had comorbidities such as diabetes, high blood pressure and heart issues. Health minister Rajesh Tope said till date, the state had carried out tests with 67,468 samples, of which 63,476 were negative. 82,299 people are home-quarantined while 6,999 are in an institutional quarantine. Tope said the state has strongly implemented the cluster containment procedure. On April 13, the state had 2,334 cases, and after five days it crossed the 3,600 mark, an increase of almost 1,300 in just five days. Meanwhile, a 52-year-old infected man died after he suffered a cardiac arrest on Saturday morning, stated the authorities of Thane Municipal Corporation. The patient had no history of travel and was admitted to a private hospital after he suffered a stroke. This is the second death from TMC area. Two minor girls whose parents worked in a brick kiln are among the 13 cases recorded in the Vasai-Virar region on Saturday. The total in Vasai-Virar region has gone up to 80, including four deaths. The Thane district total, including five deaths, is 97. Coronavirus cases in Dombivli have risen to 50, including one death. A policeman was among the two new patients in Bhiwandi.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/bmc-adds-four-days-of-private-tests-reports-record-rise-of-389-covid-19-cases/articleshow/75228101.cms||---
April 19, 2020||Kolkata||West Bengal to start pool testing of samples in low-risk zones||KOLKATA: Bengal government on Saturday decided to start pool testing samples in low-risk zones which have reported 2% or lesser Covid-19 positive cases according to the preliminary samples tested. This method will involve pooling in samples of five possible suspects, even though they are asymptomatic, and testing them together. A negative result will prove that all five samples in the pool are negative and a positive result will prompt further tests of all five samples individually. Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) director-general Balaram Bhargav had in a letter to all states, including Bengal, on April 14 proposed pool testing to ramp up surveillance. A feasibility study at the Virus Research and Diagnostic Laboratory (VRDL) at King George’s Medical University, Lucknow, had clearly demonstrated that performing real time PCR tests (polymerase chain reaction tests which detects Covid-19 antigens in the body) by pooling five samples show desired results in places where the rate of incidences is low. The ICMR advisory said all five individual samples in a pool which had tested negative would be considered negative, and any positive pool would lead to individual samples being tested. The ICMR has, however, recommended not to pool more than five samples to prevent excessive dilution that may throw up false negative results. In a circular on Saturday, the state said it has decided to adopt the pool-testing method. Pool tests in Bengal will be carried out only in those zones which have a low prevalence rate of infection as per the community survey and surveillance among asymptomatic individuals. Bengal will not conduct pool tests in zones where people may have come in contact with a known Covid-19 positive patient and where the rate of infections could be high. Pool tests, ICMR says, should not be done for healthcare workers who are in direct contact with Covid-19 patients. In zones, which have a prevalence rates of over 5%, pool tests have not been recommended.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/bengal-to-start-pool-testing-of-samples-in-low-risk-zones/articleshow/75227413.cms||Sumati Yengkhom
April 19, 2020||Noida||Noida: Cops respond to SOS, deliver cancer drug 400km away||NOIDA: It started with a tweet at 10am on Saturday. A cancer patient in a village in Kannauj needed a medicine that wasn’t locally available. The appeal for help by a friend of his son set the police wheels rolling in Noida. Eight hours later, cops reached the door of Phool Singh in Palpur, 400km away, with the medicines he needed. Singh was diagnosed with cancer some months ago and, since then, has been taking the medicines — Cumeric N300 and Brace Q-10. His son Gautam usually got him the medicines from Noida, but he was stuck this time because of the lockdown. एक ट्वीट पर कैंसर की बीमारी से जूझ रहे बुजुर्ग पिता के पास नॉएडा से 400 km दूर कन्नौज पहुंची जीवन रक्षक दवाइयां!… https://t.co/0qjviHM4nA— Call 112 (@112UttarPradesh) 1587128411000Gautam shared his helplessness with his friend, Gopal Kapoor, who took to Twitter to make an appeal for help. Those handling the helpline passed on the information to the cops, who got in touch with Gautam, a Sector 128 resident. Gautam gave the prescription to police, who bought the medicines from a local store. Meds bought in Noida, sent to KannaujDeputy commissioner of police (traffic) Rajesh S said he had directed the nearest police patrolling van to look for the medicines. “The PRV commander, Gaurav Yadav, got the prescription from the man’s son and bought the medicines from a store in Sector 128 itself. The medicines were then handed over to another police vehicle that was on its way to Lucknow,” the officer said. The cops in the vehicle headed towards Lucknow then contacted Kannauj police and requested officers there to take the medicines from a designated place on the Yamuna Expressway around 5pm. “Within an hour, the medicines had reached Phool Singh in Palpur. The local police sent us a picture to confirm the delivery,” the DCP (traffic) said. Asked if the medicines were rare, the police said they weren’t available anywhere near the village where Phool Singh lives. Though Lucknow is only 120km away, Singh would get the medicines delivered from Noida through his son. The officer said police helplines were flooded with complaints about erratic delivery of medicines. He said the police and the Noida administration were taking every possible step to ensure medicines reach those in need. The administration has released a list of 107 medical stores and their phone numbers for home deliveries. “The list can be accessed at gbnagar.nic.in,” the DCP added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/noida/noida-cops-respond-to-sos-deliver-cancer-drug-400km-away/articleshow/75228111.cms||---
April 19, 2020||Business||Corona-stung world is reviewing Chinese FDI||NEW DELHI: India has joined Australia and several European countries, including Germany, in reviewing its FDI policy with a special focus on China. The US had begun a deeper scrutiny at the start of the start of the year itself. On January 13, the treasury department issued landmark regulations to scrutinise foreign investments into critical technology firms — especially those from China, expanding the scope of the committee on foreign investment in the United States (CFIUS) and potential impact on national security of a foreign investment transaction. The coronavirus outbreak in China made the others wary as countries realised how a disruption in the supply chain could impact them in case of an emergency. The fall in share prices after the stock market collapse only added to the fear. As a result, over the last one month or so country after country has been renewing its investment engagement with China. “They may not say so explicitly but the focus is China,” said a government official. On March 17, Spain has enacted a royal decree mandating the need for authorisation of FDI on the grounds of security and public order. On March 25, the European Commission issued guidelines to coordinate the approach of member states on FDI in a bid to protect critical assets and technologies from being controlled by overseas investors during the market disruption caused by Covid-19. On April 8, the Italian government expanded the scope of a 2012 decree, called the Golden Power Law, to cover additional sectors such as health, energy, transport, defence, aerospace, media, data, artificial intelligence, electrical or financial infrastructure and land and real estate. The Golden Power Law allowed authorities to prohibit or restrict investment by foreign nationals in certain industries. Germany is going a step further and amending its law to provide that even probable impairment to public order or security could result in government intervention. The rule will allow for authorities to step in not just to prevent any threat to Germany but also to other EU member states. Australia has expanded the ambit of review of FDI proposals by lowering the threshold to Aus$0, besides saying that the timeline for clearing all proposals will now be six months.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/international-business/corona-stung-world-is-reviewing-chinese-fdi/articleshow/75228119.cms||---
April 19, 2020||Bengaluru||Woman seeks police help as hubby stops bathing and demands sex in Bengaluru||BENGALURU: A mother-of-two recently reported her husband to Parihar, the women’s helpline of Bengaluru police, alleging he had stopped taking a bath ever since the lockdown began on March 24 and was pressuring her to have sex. This is one of many complaints that the helpline has been receiving, police officers said, as being huddled together at home for a long period causes friction in families and puts women at risk of mental and physical abuse. The problem is not restricted to Bengaluru, Karnataka or India. Police counsellors and mentalhealth services in many countries, including Australia, Britain and the US, are reporting a worrying surge in calls for help in domestic matters. The said call to Parihar came from Jayanagar. The 31-year-old woman said her husband was a grocer and had refused to open his shop after citing a cash crunch to run the business. As the lockdown came into effect, his personal hygiene went for a toss and he slowly stopped showering. The woman told police counsellors she repeatedly reminded him of the benefits of good hygiene in times of a viral outbreak, but to no avail. He allegedly demanded sex and when she refused, he hit her. “Their nine-year-old daughter started following the father’s routine, avoding baths. We explained to him the importance of hygiene,” said senior counsellor BS Saraswathi. In another case, a realtor in Banaswadi allegedly assaulted his wife and threw her out after she refused to cook chicken biryani. The woman had cited her increased workload and wanted to prepare a simple meal. She has sought Parihar’s help to seek legal recourse.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/bengaluru-woman-seeks-police-help-as-hubby-stops-bathing-and-demands-sex/articleshow/75228118.cms||Kiran Parashar
April 19, 2020||Bengaluru||Bengaluru: Turned away by 2 hospitals on Covid-19 fear, woman gives birth in third||BENGALURU: A pregnant woman, 29, from Mysuru, who battled breathlessness and was turned away by two hospitals here as they feared she was suffering from Covid-19, finally delivered a baby girl in a third hospital on Saturday morning. The woman, in the 36th week of pregnancy, was refused admission on April 17 as she was from Mysuru, a Covid hotspot with 80 cases so far, including a cluster. On Friday, she came to Bengaluru in a private car. She went from the CRPF composite hospital to Apollo hospital in Seshadripuram and then to MS Ramaiah hospital where she was admitted after the state government intervened. She’s now in the ICU where her condition remains critical. Earlier, she had been admitted to a private hospital in Mysuru for three days. After being discharged, her condition worsened and doctors suggested she seek help in Bengaluru. She had a low pulse rate and was wheezing and breathless. At Apollo hospital, she was screened but not admitted. She was asked to go elsewhere for a Covid-19 test. Pregnant woman’s kin: It was traumaticApollo hospital said she was stable and was screened by clinicians. “She was not due for delivery, had mild fever and was breathless. We have only two isolation beds for Covid-19 suspected cases and couldn’t admit her and put others at risk. We asked her to go to a hospital with Covid-19 testing facilility,” said Uday Davda, head, Apollo hospital. Following a TOI scribe’s tweet late Friday night about the woman’s plight, the Janasnehi team of the government’s information department contacted the hospital. “Till midnight, one of our volunteers was in the hospital to make sure she was admitted,” said a coordinator. The woman’s relative said: “It was traumatic taking her from one hospital to another.” Six voluntary donors associated with Lions’ bloodline, Sanjaynagar, came to her rescue on hearing she needed blood.“She was diagnosed with a cardiac disease in Mysuru and was admitted to our hospital late Friday night. She had a history of miscarriages. We did a C-section delivery and she’s on ventilator. If there are no complications, she will be shifted to a ward soon,” said Dr Naresh Shetty, president, MS Ramaiah Memorial Hospital.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/turned-away-by-2-hospitals-on-covid-19-fear-woman-gives-birth-in-third/articleshow/75228132.cms||Sunitha Rao R
April 19, 2020||Chennai||49 new positive cases in Tamil Nadu, total 1,372||CHENNAI: As 49 more people tested positive for Covid-19 infection taking the total number of cases to 1,372 in the state on Saturday, 82 people were declared fit for discharge across various government hospitals. The total number of people discharged until Saturday was 365. “Nearly a quarter of the patients tested positive so far have recovered. More people are leaving the hospital every day,” health minister C Vijayabaskar said. “We are doing more tests now. Today, we had tested 5,363 samples and 49 were positive,” he said. Of those tested positive, 47 were from the Tablighi Jamaat, one is a nurse from Coimbatore and another person had a history of interstate travel, officials said. The number of samples tested in the state went up to 35,036 from 29,673 on Friday. Will get permission for two more testing labs, says health ministerThe state, he said, has 31 testing labs, including 21 in the government sector. “All tests done in government labs are free. Two testing labs in the state have the capacity to test up to 1,000 samples a day. We will be getting permission for two more labs tonight,” he said. From Saturday, the state has started using rapid antibody testing kits to screen people at hotspots and for epidemiological surveys, he said. Doctors in the state have also been able to keep the mortality rate for the viral infection below 1.1%, he said. “Although 95% of the patients are asymptomatic some of them have ‘masked’ hypoxia. The low level of oxygen in their body does not make them uncomfortable and their condition suddenly deteriorates rapidly. Based on death audits and updates we received from experts, we constantly revise treatment protocols,” he said. There were 34 people in government quarantine facilities and 1,884 people in hospital isolation.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/49-new-positive-cases-in-tamil-nadu-total-1372/articleshow/75228135.cms||---
April 19, 2020||Mumbai||Mumbai's Nair hospital to be designated Covid-only; opposition to plan||MUMBAI: BYL Nair hospital will be the city’s first hospital with an attached medical college (TN Medical College) to be designated as a Covid-only hospital. While the decision was taken by a specially-appointed taskforce on Saturday, it is yet to be announced, following opposition from senior medical staff. The 1,600-bed facility will be dedicated to Covid-19 patients after the transition process. Doctors raised concerns over new admissions to undergraduate and postgraduate courses, among other issues. A senior civic official said a bigger civic-run hospital was needed in the vicinity for emergencies. He said the decision was taken on the advice of Dr Sanjay Oak, chairman of the taskforce formed by state government for patient management. The plan was to turn KEM Covid-only, but it was rejected as it is larger and caters to many non-Covid patients. The civic chief and senior hospital staff met over an online platform on Saturday. Dr Mohan Joshi from Sion hospital is likely to be dean of the Covid hospital. A doctor from the hospital said the government should not convert a college into a Covid-19 facility, as no one knows how long this will last. “Teaching will take a hit, no new admissions can be allowed this year. Students will not want to take admissions. Postgraduate exams are to be held in June,” said the doctor. He added that the hospital has 100 beds for Covid-19 patients. “Resident doctors are also being sent to SevenHills and Kasturba. We are also one of the dedicated units for pregnant Covid-19 patients,” said the doctor. Another doctor said any hospital cannot be converted into a Covid facility overnight. “Infrastructure is inadequate to handle 1,600 beds. The ICU does not have negative pressure facility. What will happen to non-Covid follow-up patients, cancer and dialysis patients? If all doctors work on Covid-19 patients, they will have to provide accommodation. There is no assurance,” said the doctor. A government official said all concerns will be addressed. Another meeting will be held on Sunday to work out process of transition. With inclusion of Nair, there will be three government-BMC run Covid-19 hospitals in the island city, Kasturba and St George being the others. In suburbs, SevenHills (Andheri) and Hindu Hruday Samrat Balasaheb (Jogeshwari) are dedicated hospitals, apart from small hospitals. Watch Mumbai's Nair hospital to be designated Covid-only||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/mumbais-nair-hospital-to-be-designated-covid-only-opposition-to-plan/articleshow/75228133.cms||Yogita Rao
April 19, 2020||Bengaluru||Driver suffered cardiac arrest, confirmed +ve two days later in Karnataka||BENGALURU: In a tragic measure of the fear surrounding Covid-19, the state’s 14th casualty was a man from Vijayapura who reportedly died of shock after he learned that two people he had come in contact with were infected. The 42-year-old, a driver, died of cardiac arrest on April 16 — two days before his test results confirmed he was positive too. “We learn that the man died out of shock when he got to know that two persons he was in touch with tested positive. People must be aware that Covid-19 is a curable infection. In Karnataka alone, 104 patients have recovered already and the public must not panic. It is treatable,” education minister S Suresh Kumar said on Saturday. Asked if Covid-19 could have manifested in a heart condition — reported in several instances and a subject of research worldwide — he maintained that the man had died of shock. The victim is the youngest in the state to have died in the outbreak. On Saturday, the state reported 25 fresh cases, taking the number of infected to 384. The newly infected include five women and four senior citizens. Seven cases each were reported from Bagalkot and Mysuru, three from Bengaluru, two each from Kalaburagi and Vijayapura, and one each from Belagavi, Dharwad and Mandya. One of the patients from Mysuru is a 65-year-old man with Severe Acute Respiratory Infection. The remaining six are linked to the Nanjangud pharma cluster.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/driver-suffered-cardiac-arrest-confirmed-ve-two-days-later-in-karnataka/articleshow/75228138.cms||---
April 19, 2020||Bengaluru||After flip-flop, Karnataka to stay locked till May 3||BENGALURU: In a flip-flop within hours on Saturday, the Karnataka government retracted its plans to allow movement of two-wheelers in non-Covid hotspots and to extend permission for IT-BT firms to operate with 33% staff. Earlier in the day, it decided to ease lockdown restrictions in non-Covid hotspots across the state after April 20. It had allowed movement of goods vehicles that transport essential commodities and construction materials and permitted select industries, including construction sector, to function with 33% staff and government offices to be open with 33% staff under the roster system and arrange exclusive buses to transport them. All persons at work were to mandatorily wear masks. The change in mind was reportedly under pressure from the police department. It decided to allow only employees under critical missions and essential services to function and confirmed that the rest would have to work from home. The government also did a U-turn on allowing two-wheelers in non-hotspots. “Restrictions on inter-state movement of people and cars, barring those with passes, will continue till May 3. Inter-district movement of vehicles will not be permitted, barring between Ramanagara, Bengaluru Urban and Bengaluru Rural districts,” CM BS Yediyurappa said. ‘Industries in villages, SEZs can open’Industries will be permitted to function in clusters in villages and special economic zones or industrial townships in urban areas. There will be no restriction on transportation of essential goods, as well as construction material like gravel, sand, cement and steel. The lockdown, however, will be implemented more strictly in containment zones or hotspots. The government has identified 32 zones in Bengaluru and eight districts. “An incident commander with magisterial powers will be appointed in each zone and he/ she will be assisted by police and health officials. They’ll be responsible for containing crowd movement and providing basic amenities in these areas,” the CM said. People won’t be allowed to step out of their homes and essential items will be supplied. Areas in a 3-km radius of a containment zone will be a buffer zone where medical check-ups will be done. The restrictions on sale of liquor and prohibitory orders under Section 144 will continue till May 3. Farmers will get new farm loans from the state and an official notification will be issued in two days, said cooperative minister ST Somashekhar in Davanagere. He said a circular would be issued to all private banks and finance companies that gave loans to farmers to purchase vehicles and other agriculture equipment.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/after-flip-flop-karnataka-to-stay-locked-till-may-3/articleshow/75228121.cms||Anil Gejji
April 19, 2020||Coimbatore||Tamil Nadu: Shawl stuck in machine, woman gets decapitated||UDHAGAMANDALAM: The head of an 18-year-old woman worker was severed by the rolling blades of a carrot washing machine near Ketti Palada in the Nilgiris on Saturday morning. S Nandhini, a resident of Sogathorai village, was clearing the sliding track tray underneath the machine during work at the unit when the accident took place around 11 am. Police said she was bending and clearing the tray when her shawl first got stuck in it, then her hair and finally her head which got cut off by the rotating blades within a few minutes. Sources said there were other workers also in the vicinity but that everything happened in a matter of minutes. The machine used to wash carrots occupies about 500 sqft. “A case under section 304A of IPC has been registered with the Ketti police station”, he said adding, “The owner of the carrot washing machine unit, Manjunath, has not provided any safety measure for the workers while on duty”. He has been made an accused for negligence in taking safety measure. An inquiry is underway in this connection. The woman was the daughter of Subramani and Sumitra who had settled in Ooty. She has two brothers too. The body of the victim has been shifted to Ooty government headquarters hospital. “The separated body and head of the victim are kept in the mortuary in the hospital for further investigation and formalities”, said a police spokesman.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/tamil-nadu-woman-gets-decapitated-in-machine/articleshow/75228145.cms||---
April 19, 2020||Thane||52-year-old with coronavirus dies of heart attack in Thane||THANE: A 52-year-old coronavirus positive patient who had other underlying ailments died on Saturday morning after he suffered a heart attack. The same day, 14 people tested positive for the infection in Thane, taking the city’s tally to 129 and two deaths. The man’s death has been classified as a ‘suspected Covid death’ for now as civic officials said his medical reports will be verified to ascertain cause of death. The finance consultant lived in a tonylocality of Thane. Dr Ram Kendre, in-charge for corona cases in Thane, said, “The man had no history of foreign travel. He probably caught the virus after travelling to Mumbai for work.” The man had been admitted to a private hospital on April 10 after he suffered a brain stroke. He was later found positive for Covid-19 and was moved to Horizon Prime Hospital, a Covid-19 on April 11.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/thane/52-year-old-with-coronavirus-dies-of-heart-attack-in-thane/articleshow/75228151.cms||Shrutika Sukhi
April 19, 2020||Kolkata||Protests rock Jalpaiguri jail as inmates seek Covid bail||Jalpaiguri: Around 200 inmates of Jalpaiguri Central Correctional Home went on the rampage on Saturday and held six jail wardens hostage for nearly five hours, demanding immediate bail on the ground that the facility was cramped and unsafe for them amid the Covid-19 pandemic. A posse of cops from Dhupguri, Moynafuri, Rajgunj and Kotwali police stations, along with Rapid Action Force (RAF) personnel, managed to bring the situation under control in the evening, but not before the undertrial prisoners had pelted stones at jail staff, damaged surveillance cameras and snapped cable lines. Jalpaiguri SP Abhishek Modi said while an inquiry had been ordered into the incident, demands of the inmates would also be looked into. The jail has two complexes, which together house 1,273 prisoners. Trouble began brewing at the new complex, housing 550, in the morning when some inmates allegedly found food being served in unhygienic condition. An altercation with kitchen staff snowballed into a violent protest by noon. Armed with stones, bricks and rods, 200-odd inmates trooped to the football field on the premises and uprooted the goalposts. They chased prison officials and staff, taking the six wardens hostage along with eight sweepers, police said. After a marathon negotiation with senior police officers across an iron barricade inside the jail compound, the inmates finally withdrew their agitation and returned to their wards around 5pm. “We were compelled to exercise maximum restraint because the inmates were holding six wardens and eight sweepers hostage. Use of force could have aggravated the situation,” said a senior police officer. The jail’s chief disciplinary officer Asim Acharya said most of the inmates who turned violent were in custody on charges under the Narcotic Drugs and Psychotropic Substances Act, 1985. “They instigated others housed in the new complex to join their demand for bail,” he said. SP Modi said the situation was now under control. “There was problem in the jail. We have settled the matter. They (inmates) had some demands. We have said we will look into the demands. Also, a probe has been initiated into the violence,” the SP added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/protests-rock-jalpaiguri-jail-as-inmates-seek-covid-bail/articleshow/75227773.cms||Pinak Priya Bhattacharya
April 19, 2020||Kolkata||Ambulance convoy brings 35 stuck patients back home from Chennai||KOLKATA: Thirty-five patients, many of them suffering from cancer, completed a 1,700-km road journey from Chennai to home in Kolkata and other parts of Bengal on Friday, thanks to assistance from helpful locals in the southern state and on the way. A convoy of 35 ambulances started from Chennai on Wednesday and crossed over into Bengal some 48 hours later on Friday afternoon. Two of the patients are from Assam and will reach home on Saturday. “These people had appointments at different hospitals in Chennai before the lockdown began and got stranded there. Some of them were suffering from financial constraints due to their prolonged stay at hotels. Initially, they started talks with ambulance operators on an individual basis. Finally, when this came to our notice, we spoke to associations of ambulance operators and arranged 35 vehicles for them. Finally, the convoy started from Chennai on Wednesday,” said one of those who arranged for the ambulances. According to the relative of a patient, some operators were demanding a steep rate but negotiations were conducted on their behalf by some locally influential people. Those who didn’t have sufficient cash on them were also accommodated. All patients, their relatives, ambulance drivers and attendants were provided documents certifying that they are were not suffering from Covid-19. At several places on the way, such as Tiruchirapalli, people provided them food and other assistance. The relative particularly mentioned A Nagarjuna, a HAM operator, who helped them in the negotiations and made arrangements for food. “The journey was more or less peaceful. We had to cross three state boundaries and at every location, authorities checked the documents and matched them with our identity cards to ascertain whether there were additional people in the vehicles. We were also carrying some dry food and sufficient water. People on the way were very helpful when we stopped for rest at places beside the highway. Doctors at Chennai had also provided medicines to take care of any emergency on the way,” said a relative of another patient. Some of the patient parties got in touch with HAM operators in Bengal. “We got in touch with our friends from other states along the way and they provided us all support,” said Ambarish Nag Biswas, secretary, West Bengal Radio Club.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/ambulance-convoy-brings-35-stuck-patients-back-home-from-chennai/articleshow/75227891.cms||Jayanta Gupta
April 19, 2020||Kolkata||West Bengal govt rebuts governor, opposition charge on rations||KOLKATA: West Bengal governor Jagdeep Dhankhar wants the state government to take stern action against persons involved in what he calls the “PDS scam”. He made the tweet on Saturday, two days after the chief minister changed the food secretary following complaints that some were not getting the monthly quota of ration the CM promised to provide free for six months. The Bengal government in a formal response to Raj Bhawan later on Saturday said it has not received the required quantum of foodgrain from the Centre. It also said it had taken to task all “defaulters in the administration” and errant ration dealors and lodged 32 FIRs. The government has indicated the 5kg rice per head per month will continue for six months. Covid 19 has to be unitedly fought on ground and not in media/public relations. No politics at all.Worried-PDS SC… https://t.co/0GgQ79s0JS— Governor West Bengal Jagdeep Dhankhar (@jdhankhar1) 1587177110000“Covid 19 has to be unitedly fought on ground and not in media/public relations. No politics at all. Worried PDS SCAM getting bigger by the day. PDS system is in virtual political hijack, a crime. Free ration for needy and not coffers. Defaulters be sternly dealt,” the governor tweeted. Food and supplies minister Jyotipriya Mullick didn’t want to take on the constitutional head of the state. “I can’t make any adverse comment against him. He could have made the comment after knowing everything. Many ration dealers have been suspended and many arrested. Enforcement Department is probing and we are giving our report to the state government. He has advised against doing politics. But everyone can make out who is doing politics,” the food minister said. Meanwhile, Left Front chairman Biman Bose was taken to the Lalbazar central lock-up by Kolkata Police with his colleagues, including Surjya Kanta Mishra. The Front leaders took to the street breaking the lockdown to protest the government’s lack of transparency in handling the Covid situation and providing ration to people in distress. They demanded the government give free ration to card holders and those yet to get digitised cards. Front leaders stood at a distance from each other in a single line on Red Road carrying placards to register a “token protest”. “The government is fighting the opposition instead of fighting the virus. Police can’t suppress our voice by arresting us,” Mishra said. Md Selim claimed cops flouted ‘social distancing protocol’ while arresting them. BJP national general secretary Rahul Sinha has demanded the minister’s resignation. “He should own up the ration mess and step down in public interest.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/bengal-govt-rebuts-guv-oppn-charge-on-rations/articleshow/75227786.cms||---
April 19, 2020||Ranchi||200 govt teachers under radar for ‘fake certificates’||Ranchi: As many as 200 primary school teachers in Jharkhand are under the scanner of the department of school education for allegedly giving false information in their birth certificates and their graduation certificates. On Saturday, the director of primary education department, Aditya Kumar Anand, said, “After scrutinising their certificates for the last 10 months, the department has found mismatch in details like date of birth and marks of all the 200 teachers, of which 23 work in Ranchi district. Their certificates have now been sent to their respective universities, from where these 200 teachers have completed their graduation, for verification purpose.” Anand added, “Seeing the irregularities in their certificates, these teachers have not been paid their salaries for the last 10 months and it will be kept on hold till the universities verify their details.” Earlier, the government teachers were given their appointment letters and their salaries as soon as they joined, even before their certificates could be verified but in the process many districts recorded a huge number of forgery cases, the director informed. “We have witnessed several cases — 140 in Dhanbad and 70 in Chatra — where the teachers produced forged documents. Hence, we have decided to release their payments on completion of the verification process,” he added. The 200 teachers were recruited in May and June last year upon the orders of the high court against the vacancy released in 2015-16. Jagannath Saha, who teaches at Government Middle School, Rahe, said, “I have been teaching here for several months but I have not received my payment yet. When I asked the authorities about it, they said that they are waiting for the completion of the verification process.” The All Jharkhand Primary Teachers’ Association has appealed to the government to release the payments of these teachers. Nasim Ahmed, the association’s spokesperson, said, “There are several teachers in primary and upper middle schools who are waiting for their salary to begin. We have appealed to the department many times but they said that they are waiting for the completion of the certificates’ verification.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/200-govt-teachers-under-radar-for-fake-certificates/articleshow/75227078.cms||---
April 19, 2020||Ranchi||Gumla sisters donate pocket money for PM-CARES||Gumla: Two minor sisters — Priyanshi (8) and Shreyanshi (5) — pooled in their pocket money to donate Rs 2,440 to the PM-CARES Fund. On Friday, both the sisters formally handed over their contributions to Gumla DC Shashi Ranjan. The sisters saved their pocket money given to them by their grandparents and made the donation. Hailing the efforts, the DC said, “They are small kids, but they have a large heart to help others. I appreciate their parents for encouraging them to be sensitive from such a tender age.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/gumla-sisters-donate-pocket-money-for-pm-cares/articleshow/75227141.cms||---
April 19, 2020||Ranchi||11 clerics with Tablighi links sent to jail from quarantine in Jamshedpur||Jamshedpur: Police on Saturday sent 11 foreign clerics to Ghatshila central jail on charges of violating visa norms and the nationwide lockdown after they completed their quarantine period. Police have charged the 11 Muslim clerics from Kazakhstan, China and Kyrgyzstan under Section 14 (B) of the Foreigners Act, 1946 for undertaking religious preaching while being in India on a tourist visa. “These foreigners were visiting India on a tourist visa and they were not supposed to indulge in propagating any religion or preaching,” SP (rural) Piyush Pandey said. The clerics were tested thrice for the novel coronavirus during the 25-day quarantine period and then legal proceedings were initiated against them. The clerics were put under quarantine on March 25 after they went to Steel City from Rargaon near Ranchi after the delegation was apprehended while on its way to the Ranchi airport to catch a flight to Delhi. The clerics had arrived in India in January this year and were touring different parts of the country to propagate Islam upon invitation from the Tablighi Jamaat. While the delegation was in quarantine at the police training centre at Musaboni in Ghatshila, a state CID and Intelligence Bureau team questioned them on March 27 to collect information about their travel history and religious activities. The police lodged a case against the clerics at Jaduguda police station on April 7 and forwarded them to jail on Saturday. The delegation had attended the Jamaat’s markaz at Nizamuddin in New Delhi from March 13 to 15 and then reached Jharkhand. During their stay in the state, the delegation travelled to Seraikela, Chandil, Bundu and Ranchi, met local Islamic clerics and participated in various programmes. One such programme was scheduled to be held in Kapali on the outskirts of Steel City on March 25, but was cancelled at the last minute. The police caught the delegation while it was returning to Ranchi. “The clerics have conceded that they had visited India for Tablighi work even in the past,” said a police inspector who was part of the team that interrogated the clerics.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/11-clerics-with-tablighi-links-sent-to-jail-from-quarantine-in-jamshedpur/articleshow/75227196.cms||B Sridhar
April 19, 2020||Ranchi||Rare surgery gets denture out of man’s intestine||Ranchi: Ramdev Mahto (35) of Churchu in Hazaribag, who accidentally swallowed his denture while drinking water, lost all hopes when on April 11 no private hospital in his district and Ramgarh admitted him for an operation. The reason — Hazaribag saw its second case on the same day and the hospitals were not willing to take a risk. Mahto finally found relief when doctors at Medica Hospital in Ranchi agreed to perform the operation on the same night, but by the time it happened, the denture had caused considerable damage to his intestine. The rare surgery was conducted by a team of surgeons led by Dr (Major) Ramesh Das. Speaking to TOI, Dr Das said, “After preliminary examinations, we found that the patient had swallowed his upper denture accidentally as it wasn’t fixed properly and it went into his stomach due to the suction pressure created near throat while drinking water. We immediately performed a CT scan and saw that the denture was stuck in the middle of his intestine and had damaged a part of it.” Das added, “We removed the denture which was stuck in the middle of the the patient’s intestine after passing through his food pipe and stomach. Around one feet length of his intestine got perforated by the denture. The surgery lasted for over 90 minutes.” He further explained, “Anastomosis (surgical removal of a part of the intestine) was performed on Mahto to take the denture out.” The patient was kept under observation for the next three days and was administered oral diet through a pipe. “He has shown a speedy recovery and we will discharge him soon,” Das said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/rare-surgery-gets-denture-out-of-mans-intestine/articleshow/75227124.cms||Gaurav Pandey
April 19, 2020||Kolkata||National Library staff protest MHA reopen order||Kolkata: The ministry of home affairs has asked the National Library to reopen on Monday, raising hackles among the staff as the insitution is located in Alipore that has been identified as a hotspot for Covid-19. While the order is aimed at starting back office work so that the library can resume functioning in a phased manner after the lockdown is lifted, the employees have written to the authorities, including the Union culture ministry under which the library functions, seeking a review of the order. Employees’ union secretary Saibal Chakraborty said: “We have written to the authorities that during loc-kdown, there is no mode of transport, except some meant for essential services. National Library is not an essential service. The state government has declared Alipore and Bhowanipore as hotspots. Not more than five are allowed to move around in these areas.” Library OSD K L Kochukoshy said the order is in line with the ministry notification to restart certain sections and organizations. “Of course, there will be exemptions. I am 68 and a diabetic. So, I shall continue to work from home,” he said. P L Sahu, joint secretary, ministry of culture, officiating as DG, National Library, said the order was intended for those living in staff quarters on campus. The library has been closed since the lockdown started on March 25. The order was issued on Friday, asking all the employees to report from Monday as per a roster.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/national-library-staff-protest-mha-reopen-order/articleshow/75227792.cms||Ajanta Chakraborty
April 19, 2020||Ranchi||One more with Tablighi links +ve, state Covid count at 33||Ranchi: A 33-year-old man from Trinidad & Tobago islands, who was a part of the 17-member foreigners’ group of the Tablighi Jamaat, tested positive for Covid-19 on Saturday, taking the total number of cases in the state to 33. The man tested positive in the third test conducted on him in 20 days after he tested negative in the first two — on March 31 and April 7. Soon after he tested positive on Saturday, the man was shifted from the Khelgaon quarantine centre to the Covid-19 block at Rajendra Institute of Medical Sciences (Rims). Meanwhile, the result of the third test on the Malaysian women, the state’s first case, who tested positive on March 31, is still awaited. Talking to TOI, Dr Santosh, who looks after the records at the Khelgaon quarantine centre, said, “The foreign national was shifted to Rims on Saturday afternoon after he tested positive.” Meanwhile, medical staff and others deployed at the quarantine centre are apprehensive about the 92 people released from the centre. “If one of the foreigners can test positive twenty days after being quarantined, we do not know what might happen to those who have been sent home after completing their 14-day quarantine here,” said a staff at the Khelgaon quarantine centre on condition of anonymity. Allaying fears, district administration officials said those released have no risk as they were accommodated in separate blocks from the ones who had Tablighi links. Ranchi SDM Lokesh Mishra said, “The foreign nationals with links to Tablighi Jammat were housed in a separate block from others who were tracked during contact tracing exercises. Thus, there is very little chance that they had come in contact with the 33-year-old foreign national who tested positive on Saturday.” \Meanwhile a retired Jharkhand administrative officer aged 73 years passed away in a Gurgaon based hospital after being tested positive for Covid-19 there. The 73 year old had suffered a brain stroke on April 2 at his flat in Madhumati Apartment in Joda Talaab area, Bariatu after which he was admitted at Lake View Hospital in the same area. He was airlifted to Medanta hospital in Gurgaon on April 16 after his condition deteriorated . Soon after the patient was tested positive for COVID-19 on Saturday, back here in Ranchi, the district administration was asked to take necessary precautionary measures and to screen and get samples of people who have had shared contact with the deceased. Acting on the information a district administration team along with health workers reached Madhumati apartment in Joda Talaab area and started a screening and contact tracing exercise. Apart from that they also locked down Lake view hospital which was used by the retired official for his treatment before moving to Gurgaon. “We have started contact tracing for all those who might have come in contact with the 72 year old who passed away on Saturday during treatment. Lake view hospital will be closed from immediate effect and we have started screening and sample collection exercise at his residential society and at the hospital,” said Ranchi DC Rai Mahimapat Ray. Meanwhile district administration official also urged people to come forward and contact the Ranchi district helpline number -1950 if they feel they had come in contact with the deceased.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/one-more-with-tablighi-links-ve-state-covid-count-at-33/articleshow/75227182.cms||Gaurav Pandey
April 19, 2020||Kolkata||2 days after recovery, Kolkata doctor in UK goes back to Covid frontline||KOLKATA: A young Bengali doctor in the UK, who got infected with Covid-19 while treating patients at a south London hospital earlier this month, has re-joined work, barely two days after testing negative. For Niladri Konar, who hails from Burdwan and is an alumnus of SSKM Medical College and Hospital, the decision to go back to the frontlines, less than 48 hours of his last “negative” test result, was simple. “There is an extreme dearth of doctors in London at the moment,” he told TOI. “Close to 30%-40% of staff at any hospital is in quarantine. Hence, the moment I was cleared of the infection, I went back.” The 32-year-old general medicine specialist now exclusively treats Covid-19 patients. A student of Narendrapur Ramakrishna Mission, Konar moved to the UK in 2017 with his wife, Ritika, who’s a paediatrician. He first developed symptoms on March 31. “I was on night shift, when I felt fatigued,” he recounted. “I returned home and, over the next two days, my health worsened. I developed fever, cough, headache and anosmia (loss of smell) — all signs of the infection, and so I stayed back. I got myself tested on April 3; the result came on April 5, and I was asked to stay in home isol-ation.” Unlike in India, where Covid-19 patients and their immediate families are being hospitalised, only patients who need oxygen support are advised hospitalisation in the UK. Also unlike India, UK has also revised its quarantine norms. In India, Covid-19 patients have to undergo two back-to-back tests in 24 hours before they can be released, following which patients are advised at least 14 days of home isolation. In the UK, there is no retesting. After seven days of treatment, if the patient doesn’t have any fever for 48 hours, he is declared fit. “I got better over the week,” Konar said. “Ritika also had mild symptoms but she was tested negative. But both of us were in home quarantine. My seven days of treatment got over last Monday and on Wednesday night, I re-joined duty, back to treating Covid-19 patients exclusively.” The situation is so grim that he “just couldn’t stay back”, Konar said. “Every day, at least 100 new patients are arriving at our hospital, and several hundreds are dying all over the UK. There is a severe shortage of healthcare professionals.” There is one area of concern, though: lack of personal protection equipment (PPE), a vexed issue in India, too. Konar says this shortage is exposing doctors to a high level of risk. “We were initially given PPEs, but there is now an immense shortage and the government has rolled out a fresh directive that says full-body PPEs are no longer needed for doctors. We, at the emergency department, are provided with only rubber gloves, surgical masks, a plastic gown and protective goggles. I don’t think it’s enough. “To make things worse, the airport here is still functional, people can still use the Tube, some buses are still running and people are allowed to move out once a day to exercise in the open. We are doing our best but I just pray the government also does its part in containing the pandemic,” Konar signed off.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/2-days-after-recovery-city-doc-in-uk-goes-back-to-covid-frontline/articleshow/75227892.cms||Tamaghna Banerjee
April 19, 2020||Chennai||Tamil Nadu: Rapid test kits in use out in the field||CHENNAI: The directorate of public health has distributed the much awaited rapid antibody testing kits for screening of patients with influenza-like illness in hotspots in Chennai, Salem and Coimbatore. The results are being put together at Covid-19 control room, while at the back office, senior officials are re-evaluating orders placed for three lakh kits, so they can rework the price and reconsider the number of kits required. On Saturday, after Chhattisgarh health minister T S Singh Deo tweeted that his state was procuring more than 75,000 rapid testing kits at Rs 337+ GST from a South Korean firm, opposition parties and activists said TN paid Rs 600 for each kit. The state, which planned to test all people with symptoms of influenza-like illness, placed orders in instalments. Orders for the first batch of 50,000 kits were placed with Chinese company Wondfo at ₹600 a kit on April 3, a day after ICMR’s nod. The orders were placed through Kodambakkam-based Shan Biotech and Diagnostics. “At that time, seven companies were cleared by the ICMR which fixed the price. On April 6, we ordered another 50,000 kits from the same manufacturer. On April 16, more companies were added and pricing became competitive. There were tax waivers from the government,” Tamil Nadu Medical Services Corporation (TNMSC) managing director Dr P Umanath told reporters. “We have the kits in our hands while others don’t.” The state now has 24,000 rapid testing kits from China and 12,000 from the Centre. The TNMSC is talking to vendors to revise pricing and is also studying if so many kits are required. The state initially said it would test one with influenza-like illness with the rapid test before sending him/ her for RT-PCR tests. On Friday, the ICMR said rapid antibody test was needed only in hotspots for surveillance and not as a diagnostic tool. In hotspots, RT-PCR test is used on people showing symptoms for less than week; antibody test on those showing symptoms for more than a week. “People testing positive for the infection in the rapid test will be subjected to RT-PCR test for confirmation,” said director of public health Dr K Kolandasamy. National Institute of Epidemiology resources will also be used for random tests to check for community transmission. While NIE may use the kits in “hot” and “cold” spots to study prevalence of the disease, a doctor said no one in a hotspot will wait for seven days after onset of symptoms. “We will use PCR tests on everyone. So many rapid kits may not be required.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/tamil-nadu-rapid-test-kits-in-use-out-in-the-field/articleshow/75228163.cms||---
April 19, 2020||Kolkata||West Bengal: Cancer hospital struggles against mounting odds||KOLKATA: The workforce at Saroj Gupta Cancer Centre and Research Institute (SGCCRI) has dropped drastically after a lung cancer patient undergoing treatment here tested positive to Covid-19. While some are not reporting to work out of fear, many are not being allowed to go to the hospital by their neighbours. Struggling to provide care to the 35 children who are admitted currently, the hospital is determined to tide over the crisis. “How can we turn our back on these children who need us the most at such a time? If we discharge them, they will have nowhere to go for treatment. We will continue their treatment despite the acute manpower shortage,” said SGCCRI medical director Arnab Gupta. A 75-year-old lung cancer patient from Murshidabad had tested positive on Thursday night and he was shifted to MR Bangur on Friday. Swab samples of four others at the isolation ward have tested negative. Despite the hospital administration taking all precautionary measures in addition to keeping 10 healthcare workers in quarantine, the fear had already seeped into the employees. From 850-strong workforce, including doctors, nurses, pathologists and housekeeping staff, just around 50 turned up at work on Saturday. “We are drawing up a list of healthcare providers who want to come back to work but are unable to do so as they are being prevented from coming to hospital by local people,” said the HR manager at the hospital. The HR manager’s wife, who is also an employee of the hospital, was reportedly turned away by a local grocer. The hospital has also approached Haridebpur police station and the state government so that it could get some administrative help in preventing its employees from being ostracized in their respective localities. “It seems working in a hospital has become a crime. I am shooed away from fetching water from the drinking water tap in my locality. And local people have asked me and my son not to come back if we visit the hospital,” Billo Ram Sardar, a housekeeping staffer from the nearby Rajarampur, said. Currently, the hospital has 150 patients, including 35 children. It is planning to discharge majority of the adult patients who can be taken care of at home. The children, mostly suffering from leukemia, are on regular chemotherapy and blood transfusion. “When my daughter fell ill a month ago, she was refused admission by several hospitals, including two government facilities. Now after a few rounds and chemotherapy and blood transfusions in this hospital, she is doing fine. I hope doctors do not decide to discharge her,” said a mother whose child is admitted in the hospital. Volunteers have been regularly donating blood for these children over the past few days. The hospital has appealed to donors not to shun these children as an aftermath of a patient turning positive.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/cancer-hosp-struggles-against-mounting-odds/articleshow/75227203.cms||Sumati Yengkhom
April 19, 2020||Mumbai||With PPE on, no food or water for 6-8 hours for doctors in Mumbai hospitals||MUMBAI: Battling Covid-19 from the forefront is taking a physical toll, apart from the mental one, on resident doctors, nurses and other healthcare workers in city hospitals. Picture this: You have to spend six to eight hours in multi-layered clothing in a non-AC room full of Covid-19 patients – sometimes high-risk ones. The humid weather makes it worse, as you cannot even wipe your sweat. You cannot eat or drink in fear of contamination. Even if you are thirsty, you may have to go without water to ensure you do not get the urge to urinate. For many healthcare workers (HCWs), the struggle of wearing personal protective equipment (PPE) and staying in it for 6-8 hours is nothing less than entering a manhole with safety equipment and staying there for long. Multiple layers of synthetic clothing adds to discomfort. “In between donning and doffing (removing) tPPE, it is advisable to not touch your face. If you are in ICU or high-risk wards, the entire suit could get contaminated. PPE suits are expensive and are insufficient in numbers. We cannot afford to waste it. We eat, drink and urinate before our shift starts. In fact, we cannot even drink enough water before the shift,” said a resident doctor from a civic hospital. At a leading hospital, there is no proper changing room for doctors. Resident doctors and nurses have to do menial work as ward boys do not get PPEs. Fear of catching the virus is real. “We are human. Everyone is scared here. We fear passing it on to friends not on Covid duty. There is no separate accommodation for doctors on Covid and non-Covid duties. Once shifts are over, we go to our hostels, bathe, clean the room and everything we carry to hospital. Even if we are exhausted, we cannot drop our guard,” said another doctor. In some non-high-risk wards, the shifts goes on for 12 hours. Not every such ward gets PPE suits. Over 160 health workers have so far tested positive. With canteens having restricted access or shut, getting healthy meals is a luxury. “There are no dabbawalas to get home-cooked food, and if we have odd hours, someend up skipping meals. Taj Hotels provide meals, but that is sometimes not enough. Food is becoming a concern. My shift ended at 7am one day, when I woke up at 3pm, lunch time was over,” said a doctor.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/with-ppe-on-no-food-or-water-for-6-8-hours-for-doctors-in-mumbai-hospitals/articleshow/75228167.cms||Yogita Rao
April 19, 2020||Delhi||Delhi: 36% of Jamaat members test positive for coronavirus, illegal colonies new worry||NEW DELHI: Of the nearly 3,000 Tablighi Jamaat members, who have been put under quarantine, 1,080 (36%) have tested positive for the novel coronavirus and the rest negative. Well placed sources in Delhi government have confirmed this. The sources have told TOI that the Jamaat members and their contacts are nearing completion of 14 days in isolation. “They will be tested again — positive as well as negative cases — and only then cleared,” said a senior official, who did not want to be identified. As on April 17, the capital had recorded 1,707 novel coronavirus cases. Of this, 63% (1,080) was related to the Jamaat. The state health department said the testing of the Jamaat members ended on April 14 though, when nine of them tested positive. “After April 14, Delhi’s Covid-19 tally has come down significantly which is a positive change,” an official claimed. On April 13, Delhi had recorded 356 Covid-19 cases — its highest single day tally — of which 325 cases were related to Jamaat members and their contacts, sources said. “Between April 15 and April 17, no new cases have been recorded among the Jamaat members. And this has a clear reflection in the state’s daily tally,” the official said. “The Jamaat members and their contacts also account for majority of hospital admissions in the state’s Covid-19 facilities. With those testing negative getting discharged, the occupancy rate in state-run hospitals and quarantine facilities is likely to reduce drastically,” said an official. But the capital is not the only state reeling under the pressure due to the high burden of Tablighi Jamaat-related cases. Joint secretary in the health ministry, Lav Agarwal said on Saturday that of the 14,378 Covid-19 cases reported in the country so far, 4,291 cases were linked to the Markaz event held in Delhi’s Nizamuddin area in March. “Most of the Markaz event-related cases have been found in states with high burden of the disease, such as Tamil Nadu (84%), Telangana (79%), Delhi (63%), Uttar Pradesh (59%) and Andhra Pradesh (61%),” he added. In Delhi, the new worry is detection of cases in unauthorised colonies like Sangam Vihar. Four new cases of Covid-19 were confirmed from one household in Sangam Vihar--an unauthorised colony in South Delhi which is home to nearly a million people, mostly migrant workers from economically weaker section of the society — on Friday. “The neighbourhood where positive cases have been detected has been declared as a containment zone,” authorities said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/delhi-36-of-jamaat-members-positive-illegal-colonies-new-worry/articleshow/75228171.cms||Durgesh Nandan Jha
April 19, 2020||World||Trump warns China could face 'consequences' over pandemic||WASHINGTON: US President Donald Trump warned on Saturday that China could face consequences if it was "knowingly responsible" for the coronavirus pandemic. "It could have been stopped in China before it started and it wasn't," Trump told reporters at a White House briefing. "And now the whole world is suffering because of it." Trump was asked whether China should suffer consequences over the pandemic which began in the Chinese city of Wuhan in December and has left more than 157,000 people dead around the world. "If they were knowingly responsible, certainly," he said. "If it was a mistake, a mistake is a mistake. "But if they were knowingly responsible, yeah, then there should be consequences," Trump said. "Was it a mistake that got out of control or was it done deliberately?" he asked. "That's a big difference between those two. "In either event they should have let us go in," he said. "We asked to go in early. And they didn't want us in. I think they knew it was something bad and they were embarrassed." "They said they're doing an investigation," the president continued. "So let's see what happens with their investigation. But we're doing investigations also." The Trump administration has said it doesn't rule out that the novel coronavirus was spread -- accidentally -- from a laboratory researching bats in Wuhan. Chinese Foreign Ministry spokesman Zhao Lijian -- who previously alleged that the US military may have brought the virus into China -- has rejected US media reports on the subject and said there is "no scientific basis." Trump also cast doubt on official Chinese figures showing the country has suffered just 0.33 deaths per 100,000 people. "The number's impossible," he said. "It's an impossible number to hit." The United States, according to a chart displayed at the briefing, has had 11.24 deaths per 100,000 people while France has had 27.92 and Spain 42.81.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//world/us/trump-warns-china-could-face-consequences-over-pandemic/articleshow/75228170.cms||---
April 19, 2020||Chennai||Chennai: Crammed into MTC buses, sanitary workers go to duty||CHENNAI: They are among the frontline workers who are exposing themselves to the maximum threat in the fight against Covid-19 but the authorities’ neglect has forced the sanitary workers of the city corporation to be bundled up in MTC buses with no regard for physical distancing. This has created unrest among the sanitary workers who find themselves in a tricky situation. “We have to work every day for our livelihood. There is no option,” said A Mithilan (name changed), a sanitary worker with the city corporation. According to the Chennai corporation red flag union, 22,430 sanitary workers are deployed in the city currently. They include those taken on short contract for three months for Covid-19 work. Some of them are deployed for work at government hospitals. When the lockdown was announced, the Metropolitan Transport Corporation (MTC) had announced that they would be operating 200 special buses to transport government staff including sanitary workers for Covid-19-related work. “They should either increase the number of buses or at least look at increasing the number of trips. At least 70 workers are crammed in a bus,” said P Srinivasalu, general secretary of the Chennai corporation red flag union. Srinivasalu said some are forced to travel as a group in garbage collection vans too. It is not clear whether other government staff on Covid-19 duty are made to travel like the Sanitary workers. “We have flagged the issue with senior officials and zone level officers. The officials have promised immediate action,” said Srinivasalu. Sanitary workers also requested the civic body to provide personal protective equipment to those workers who are deployed in sanitation works in the containment zones. There are 84 streets barricaded in city limits as micro containment zones. “In some areas, we have been advised to make our own masks. That is fine but those working in other areas should be provided with full protective gears for work in the containment streets,” said a member of the red flag union. A senior corporation official said the concerns of the sanitary workers are being looked into. “We have set up hand wash tubs at most localities for sanitary workers. Zonal officers have been instructed to address the issues immediately. We will be co-ordinating with the MTC for a solution,” said an official.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/chennai-crammed-into-mtc-buses-sanitary-workers-go-to-duty/articleshow/75228176.cms||Srikkanth D
April 19, 2020||Delhi||Delhi: 42,000 kits in, tests to begin in 77 red zones||NEW DELHI: Delhi government has received 42,000 rapid antibody test kits for the novel coronavirus and testing will start in Delhi’s 77 containment zones — also known as red zones — on priority. The rapid test can be used to detect evidence of a person’s exposure to the coronavirus in less than 30 minutes. It is considered one of the most effective tools in combating the Covid-19 outbreak. The tests currently being used take 2-3 days to show up results. The rapid antibody tests will help Delhi government identify asymptomatic persons in time to isolate them and effectively reduce their chances of infecting others. “We had demanded one lakh rapid antibody testing kits from the central government and have received 42,000 as of now,” said health minister Satyendar Jain on Saturday. “Health workers are being trained to use these tests. We hope to begin testing in the next couple of days.” The state government wanted to carry out around 60,000 tests using the rapid antibody testing kits, but delay in delivery of the kits ruined the plan. The tests will now be conducted initially on people in the containment zones. Adequate testing is considered one of the effective ways to fight the coronavirus outbreak, but Delhi has conducted far less tests as compared to Mumbai. A total of 22,283 samples have been tested in Delhi till now, of which 1,893 returned positive and 17,449 proved negative. At a press meet on Saturday, chief minister Arvind Kejriwal said there had been a slight dip in the number of positive cases in the past three days. Delhi reported 186 new cases, taking the total to 1,893. “Of the 2,274 samples tested on Friday, only 67 tested positive. A few days earlier, the daily tally ranged between 180 and 350,” Kejriwal added. The CM expressed concern at people in some of the 77 red zones not following the containment guidelines. “In a Jahangirpuri containment zone, 26 people related to one family were found to be Covid-19 positive. This means that they hadn’t followed the orders regarding social distancing and had visited each other’s houses,” Kejriwal said, and appealed to everyone in the containment zones not to be casual about the coronavirus and defy the restrictions. Kejriwal also said that 60 sanitisation machines were operating in the city and many areas were being disinfected. “The sanitisation drive is on and we will cover the entire city. If you feel that disinfection of your area is necessary, then you can approach the government and we will take care of it immediately,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/delhi-42000-kits-in-tests-to-begin-in-77-red-zones/articleshow/75228149.cms||AlokKNMishra
April 19, 2020||Chennai||Chennai: High humidity may make days sticky||CHENNAI: If the high humidity over the last few days had felt like peak summer had arrived, brace up for more as hot, sweaty and sticky days may lie ahead. While humidity is due to the strong sea breeze the city is experiencing, which experts say may continue for the next few days, the India Meteorological Department (IMD) has forecast a near normal summer temperature for the coming weeks. On Saturday, Nungambakkam (city) recorded 34.8°C and Meenambakkam (suburbs) registered 36.6°C against a normal maximum of 34.5°C and 35.7°C. The minimum temperature in Nungambakkam was of 28.4°C, 1.6°C above normal, and 27.1°C in Meenambakkam, 0.7°C above normal. Humidity was 86% in Nungambakkam and 64% in Meenambakkam making it uncomfortable for all those on the roads. The IMD has said the maximum temperature will be around 36°C and the minimum around 27°C over the next 48 hours. “The sky is likely to be partly cloudy in the morning and mainly clear thereafter. We are getting easterlies and southeasterlies through the day. It’s also making nights warmer,” an official said. The wind direction in April and May is predominantly easterly and south easterly. Experts attribute the warmer nights to the sea breeze and cloud cover, making it difficult for the radiation absorbed by the earth during the day to escape into the atmosphere at night. Earlier, the IMD forecast that the state is likely to experience normal maximum temperatures with a slight departure from normal, -0.5°C to 0.5°C, between April and June. The average maximum temperatures for the three summer months including May is generally to be 34°C-37°C. Weather blogger Pradeep John said while temperatures may drop after 3-4 days, high humidity may last through the summer. “By April 26, there may be thunderstorms in interior districts and we can expect coastal areas to become humid,” he said. “This year, the summer temperatures are going to be 0.5°C below normal including in May. We may see a sudden spike in temperatures for a day or two and it’ll drop again. But there may be high humidity, which could make us all sweaty and uncomfortable but it is not like the dry heat in places like Telangana and Delhi.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/tamil-nadu-high-humidity-may-make-days-sticky/articleshow/75228206.cms||---
April 19, 2020||Chennai||Tamil Nadu: Container truck with medicines overturns||CHENNAI: A container truck carrying medicines from Chennai Harbour overturned on Ennore Express Highway on Saturday. Police said the accident occurred around 9am. Driver S Pandi Kannan, 36, a native of Kadayanallur near Tenkasi, escaped with minor injuries. The container laden with drugs was headed to Kolkata. Witnesses told police Kannan was speeding on Ennore Express Highway near Andar Kuppam and lost control. The truck skidded for about 20 metres. The container was thrown off the carrier and landed on to the road and the driver’s cabin and the carrier toppled. Traffic enforcement wing inspector Sobidhas and his team, who were at the Form-13 checkpost, rushed to the place and rescued Kannan. He suffered minor injuries and was treated at a private hospital. Kannan informed owner of the truck Ilamurugu who retrieved the vehicle and the container. Sobidhas said, “The container was kept on another truck and continued its journey. The toppled vehicle was taken to a workshop.” The Madhavaram traffic investigation wing police have registered a case and further investigations are on.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/tamil-nadu-container-truck-with-medicines-overturns/articleshow/75228221.cms||---
April 19, 2020||Pune||No relaxation of lockdown in Pune for next 8 days: Deputy CM Ajit Pawar||PUNE: Deputy chief minister Ajit Pawar on Saturday directed more stringent implementation of the lockdown measures in Pune city and Pimpri Chinchwad for the next eight days beginning Monday. In a meeting held in the presence of all the local authorities and police officers from Pune and Pimpri Chinchwad, the Pune guardian minister said the stern steps were needed in the wake of the increase in Covid-19 cases in the limits of both the municipal corporations. “The shutdown will be stricter and efforts would be made to reduce the number of cases. Citizens will have to extend support to the measures initiated in this direction. Necessary directives would also be issued,” he said in the meeting. The deputy CM expressed concern over the rising number of deaths in Pune city because of Covid-19. He assured that the state government would extend complete support to any requirements put forth by the authorities.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/no-relaxation-of-lockdown-in-pune-for-next-8-days-deputy-cm-ajit-pawar/articleshow/75228217.cms||---
April 19, 2020||India||UP, Odisha plan drive to help the urban poor, workers||LUCKNOW/BHUBANESWAR: To reach out to the urban poor, severely hit by large scale job-loss due to the coronavirus-enforced nationwide lockdown, the governments of UP and Odisha have announced that they will provide employment under new and old schemes to help the distressed labourers tide over this crisis. Aware of the large-scale migration of workers back to UP villages following the lockdown, the Yogi Adityanath government has decided to provide jobs to them under the Mahatama Gandhi Rural Employment Guarantee Scheme (MNREGS). According to principal secretary, rural development, Manoj Singh, the en masse migration of youth to villages has led to a situation of economic distress which can only be solved by providing jobs to them. “Youth seeking jobs under MNREGS will immediately be given job cards. If a youth’s name does not figure in the job card of a family, then it will be added,” he said. Singh said that as per the central government guidelines, works under MNREGS would be conducted outside the Covid-19 containment areas, following strict social distancing norms. Odisha chief minister Naveen Patnaik on Saturday announced a Rs 100 crore Urban Wage Employment Initiative (UWEI) that will aim to provide immediate wages to them by implementing labour-intensive projects. The UWEI assumes significance as the state housing and urban development department has estimated that around one-third of the people living in urban areas of the state (approximately two million) could face severe consequences with reduced working hours, decrease in wages and abrupt layoffs. “The UWEI will benefit around 4.5 lakh urban poor working in the informal sectors in 114 urban local bodies (ULBs) in the state,” said an official statement issued by the chief minister’s office.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/up-odisha-plan-drive-to-help-the-urban-poor-workers/articleshow/75228237.cms||---
April 19, 2020||Hyderabad||43 new cases take Telangana coronavirus count to 809||HYDERABAD: The surge in coronavirus positive cases continued in Telangana with 43 new cases being reported on Saturday. With only Wanaparthy and Warangal rural districts not reporting any case so far, the Covid-19 graph has covered almost the entire state. Along with Friday’s 66 cases, the tally has now touched 809. However, no deaths have been reported on Saturday. Health officials said they were dealing with 605 active cases with Greater Hyderabad accounting for 31, Gadwal seven, two each in Sircilla Rajanna district and one in Nalgonda. GHMC commissioner Lokesh Kumar said primary contacts of the fresh cases would be shifted to government quarantine. “If the primary contacts also test positive, we would shift them to the nodal Gandhi Hospital,” he said. Officials said a two month-old baby girl from Narayanpet and an 80-year-old man from Neredmet in Secunderabad were among those who contracted the virus. The infant has been shifted to Niloufer Hospital, while her parents and relatives sent to quarantine.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/43-new-cases-take-telangana-coronavirus-count-to-809/articleshow/75228251.cms||Koride Mahesh
April 19, 2020||Navi-mumbai||26 sailors test positive at INS Angre in Mumbai||MUMBAI: In the first major outbreak of Covid-19 in the armed forces, Western Naval Command (WNC) here said at least 26 Indian Navy sailors had tested positive. Most cases have been traced to a sailor who tested positive on April 7. The sailors are serving at INS Angre, a shore-based logistics and support establishment at WNC. “They are undergoing treatment at INHS Asvini Navy hospital in Colaba. We have started a largescale contact-tracing operation to track those who came in contact with them,” a defence spokesperson told TOI. Almost all residents of INS Angre are being tested, sources said. “WNC is considered a strategic establishment as it takes care of India’s maritime interests in the Arabian Sea and parts of Indian Ocean. The naval dockyard is a few hundred metres from INS Angre. “All possible measures are being taken to check the spread after the outbreak, which comes when a number of navies are grappling with the pandemic,” the official said. Sailors asymptomatic, are in quarantineThe official said they are testing all at the residential accommodation, which has been declared a “containment zone”. INS Angre was under total lockdown as protocol of the apex medical research body, ICMR. The official said, “Detection of these cases is a result of meticulous contact-tracing and aggressive screening/testing by WNC after a sailor tested positive on April 7. All the sailors continue to remain asymptomatic and are being monitored at INHS Asvini, under the care of best medical professionals.” He said that since the sailor was tested positive, the premises have been sealed. Containment zones and buffer areas have been designated and frequent disinfection continues to be carried out as per protocol to contain spread by breaking the chain of transmission. Other areas on the premises have been under strict lockdown and stringent quarantine, and safety protocols have been enforced for personnel and families, with door-to-door screening. All missions for coastal and offshore security continue. Operational units are being maintained in readiness, by following a 14-day quarantine routine to meet immediate contingencies, including assistance to the civil authorities, the official said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/navi-mumbai/26-sailors-test-positive-at-ins-angre-in-mumbai/articleshow/75233811.cms||Narayan Namboodiri
April 19, 2020||Ahmedabad||Covid-19 forces kids out of hostel, murder-convict mom gets bail||AHMEDABAD: The Gujarat high court has granted temporary bail to a woman convict to arrange for a stay for her children, who were shifted from a residential hostel to her brother's house following the coronavirus outbreak. However, the brother later expressed his inability to keep the kids for long due to the challenges of the pandemic. Due to ban on travel following the enforcement of national lockdown till May 3, the HC bench headed by Justice N V Anjaria on Friday also ordered the Rajkot jail authorities to make proper arrangement for the woman for travel to Halvad, where her two sons are staying at present. In this case, Gangaben Sonagara, serving life imprisonment for killing her husband three years ago, had requested the HC for temporary bail. She submitted that following her conviction, her two sons were placed in the Swami Gurukul Ashram in Dhrangadhra. When the lockdown was announced, majority of the people took away their children from the hostel facilities. Sonagara’s brother Shankar too brought her two sons, aged 14 years and 11 years, to his home at Halvad. But as the situation worsened, the maternal uncle informed the authorities that he would be unable to care for the children for long. Murder-convict mom gets bailAs her brother’s message reached the woman convict, the mother urged the court to release her for a brief period so that she could arrange for her children’s stay at some other relative’s place. The HC granted Sonagara bail for 10 days to take care of her sons and arrange for their stay. Meanwhile, the court inquired with public prosecutor Mitesh Amin about the condition in such hostels. He informed the court that the hostel facility in Dhrangadhra is operational and the government department has been taking proper care for safety of children placed in such hostels. While granting bail to Sonagara, the HC made it clear that she would not be granted bail again, if she failed to make arrangement for her kids’ stay. They would be taken back to the gurukul ashram only. Other woman in Rajkot jail, Rekhaben Gohil, also a murder convict, was not so lucky to come out of jail to meet her three children, who are placed in Home for Boys in Rajkot, a government’s facility where children of such convicts are placed.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/covid-19-forces-kids-out-of-hostel-murder-convict-mom-gets-bail/articleshow/75228262.cms||Saeed Khan
April 19, 2020||Mumbai||Palghar: 100 arrested day after three lynched, suspects on run||MUMBAI: A day after three men were lynched, allegedly by tribals in Palghar, over 100 men were arrested on Saturday while the prime suspects at the forefront of the mob attack are wanted. Three cases have been filed.  The cops are relying on images circulating on social media to nab the suspects who, they said, could be hiding in the jungle near their village. The three men — Chikne Maharaj Kalpvirkshagiri (70) and Sushilgiri Maharaj (30) and their driver Nilesh Telgade (30) — had left from Kandivli to Surat by car to attend a funeral. To avoid being stopped on the Mumbai-Ahmedabad highway, they had taken the Dabhadi-Khanvel Road, a forested patch when they were waylaid.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/palghar-100-arrested-day-after-three-lynched-suspects-on-run/articleshow/75239376.cms||---
April 19, 2020||Ahmedabad||Covid-19 alert: Gujarat adds record 280 cases and 12 deaths in a day||AHMEDABAD: Gujarat added one-fifth of its total Covid-19 cases in a single day on Saturday — a record 280 new cases in 24 hours of which 239 or 85% were registered in Ahmedabad alone. Gujarat now has 1,376 positive cases. The state also recorded 12 deaths in a day – highest so far – taking the death toll to 53. The deaths were recorded from Ahmedabad (4), Surat (2), and one each from Aravalli, Bhavnagar, Vadodara, Panchmahal, Anand and Gandhinagar. According to health aggregators on Covid-19, Gujarat with 280 cases recorded second highest positive cases in India on Saturday, second only to Maharashtra's tally of 377. Jayanti Ravi, principal secretary (health & family welfare), said that majority of the cases have been reported from known hotspots in cities such as Ahmedabad, Vadodara and Surat. “The new cases have been reported from areas such as Behrampura, Chandlodia, Dariyapur, Danilimda, Manek Chowk, Isanpur, Navrangpura, Motera, Nikol, Saraspur, Gomtipur, Jamalpur, and Kubernagar in Ahmedabad,” said Ravi. “We again want to tell citizens that figures are a result of aggressive testing in hotspots but people need to exercise more caution,” she said. ‘Situation worsening in Ahmedabad’Ahmedabad civic chief Vijay Nehra on Saturday warned the situation is getting worse in the city by the day as people steadfastly refuse to understand the gravity of the situation. “People are still getting out of their homes during lockdown and curfew. While majority are abiding, 5% of society is still not obeying rules,” he said. As on Saturday evening, Gujarat carried out 26,102 tests out of which 2,664 were in past 24 hours. Mass testing was carried out in parts of Ahmedabad on Saturday. “The testing and calibration of different rapid antibody testing (RAT) kits received from the central government on Friday is being initiated. A large number of health department workers are also trained to carry out the tests. Those found suspicious in these tests would be probed further,” said Ravi.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/covid-19-alert-gujarat-adds-record-280-cases-and-12-deaths-in-a-day/articleshow/75228297.cms||---
April 19, 2020||Visakhapatnam||Andhra Pradesh positive tally rises to 603, death toll goes up to 16||VISAKHAPATNAM: Covid-19 cases in Andhra Pradesh surged past the 600 mark as the state reported 31 fresh positive cases and two more deaths on Saturday. The Covid-19 tally has increased to 603 while the death roll has gone up to 16. Among the 31 new cases, Krishna district alone contributed 17, followed by six from Kurnool, three from Nellore, two each from Prakasam and East Godavari, and one from West Godavari. A 60-year-old man from Kurnool district died on Saturday taking the death toll in the district to three. Krishna district also reported one more death on Saturday. Meanwhile, seven more Covid-19 patients were declared cured and sent to their homes. Three of them are from East Godavari, one from Kurnool, and three from Visakhapatnam. The situation continued to be alarming in Kurnool with 132 cases, Guntur 125, Krishna 70, and Nellore 67. Even though it was not officially declared, three more patients were discharged in Visakhapatnam, bringing the active caseload of the district down to four. Krishna district collector A Md Imtiaz raised the alarm on Saturday over the untraceable origin of the pandemic in the recent cases in the district. “The initial 35 Covid-19 patients in the district are foreign or Delhi returnees and their contacts. But the recent cases are turning out to be problematic as we could not track the source of the infection. We request the public to stay indoors and maintain social distancing,” said Imtiaz. He also announced ban on sale of meat, fish, and poultry on Sunday. According to the health authorities, Andhra Pradesh could test 21,450 samples as of April 18.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/visakhapatnam/andhra-pradesh-positive-tally-rises-to-603-death-toll-goes-up-to-16/articleshow/75228299.cms||Umamaheswara Rao
April 19, 2020||Amaravati||Andhra Pradesh positive tally rises to 603, death toll goes up to 16||VISAKHAPATNAM: Covid-19 cases in Andhra Pradesh surged past the 600 mark as the state reported 31 fresh positive cases and two more deaths on Saturday. The Covid-19 tally has increased to 603 while the death roll has gone up to 16. Among the 31 new cases, Krishna district alone contributed 17, followed by six from Kurnool, three from Nellore, two each from Prakasam and East Godavari, and one from West Godavari. A 60-year-old man from Kurnool district died on Saturday taking the death toll in the district to three. Krishna district also reported one more death on Saturday. Meanwhile, seven more Covid-19 patients were declared cured and sent to their homes. Three of them are from East Godavari, one from Kurnool, and three from Visakhapatnam. The situation continued to be alarming in Kurnool with 132 cases, Guntur 125, Krishna 70, and Nellore 67. Even though it was not officially declared, three more patients were discharged in Visakhapatnam, bringing the active caseload of the district down to four. Krishna district collector A Md Imtiaz raised the alarm on Saturday over the untraceable origin of the pandemic in the recent cases in the district. “The initial 35 Covid-19 patients in the district are foreign or Delhi returnees and their contacts. But the recent cases are turning out to be problematic as we could not track the source of the infection. We request the public to stay indoors and maintain social distancing,” said Imtiaz. He also announced ban on sale of meat, fish, and poultry on Sunday. According to the health authorities, Andhra Pradesh could test 21,450 samples as of April 18.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/amaravati/andhra-pradesh-positive-tally-rises-to-603-death-toll-goes-up-to-16/articleshow/75228323.cms||Umamaheswara Rao
April 19, 2020||Vijayawada||Andhra Pradesh positive tally rises to 603, death toll goes up to 16||VISAKHAPATNAM: Covid-19 cases in Andhra Pradesh surged past the 600 mark as the state reported 31 fresh positive cases and two more deaths on Saturday. The Covid-19 tally has increased to 603 while the death roll has gone up to 16. Among the 31 new cases, Krishna district alone contributed 17, followed by six from Kurnool, three from Nellore, two each from Prakasam and East Godavari, and one from West Godavari. A 60-year-old man from Kurnool district died on Saturday taking the death toll in the district to three. Krishna district also reported one more death on Saturday. Meanwhile, seven more Covid-19 patients were declared cured and sent to their homes. Three of them are from East Godavari, one from Kurnool, and three from Visakhapatnam. The situation continued to be alarming in Kurnool with 132 cases, Guntur 125, Krishna 70, and Nellore 67. Even though it was not officially declared, three more patients were discharged in Visakhapatnam, bringing the active caseload of the district down to four. Krishna district collector A Md Imtiaz raised the alarm on Saturday over the untraceable origin of the pandemic in the recent cases in the district. “The initial 35 Covid-19 patients in the district are foreign or Delhi returnees and their contacts. But the recent cases are turning out to be problematic as we could not track the source of the infection. We request the public to stay indoors and maintain social distancing,” said Imtiaz. He also announced ban on sale of meat, fish, and poultry on Sunday. According to the health authorities, Andhra Pradesh could test 21,450 samples as of April 18.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/andhra-pradesh-positive-tally-rises-to-603-death-toll-goes-up-to-16/articleshow/75228325.cms||Umamaheswara Rao
April 19, 2020||Hyderabad||Hyderabad: As lockdown turns off booze tap, addicted migrant kids struggle||By: Lavanya.Menon@timesgroup.com HYDERABAD: “It’s as though I have no control over myself – over what I speak or do. All I feel is an uncontrollable thirst for alcohol,” Akash (name changed), a migrant worker in his mid-teens staying at Chandanagar shelter camp, shivers as he recalls an aggressive episode of alcohol withdrawal after which he was rushed to a clinic a few days back. Among the worst affected by the unavailability of alcohol during lockdown are children of the slums and minor migrant workers, as they pick up the habit early. Dr. Rosy Gundra, whose non-profit Sankalp Foundation is helping Greater Hyderabad Municipal Corporation run shelter camps at Chandanagar and Lingampally, says she has come across many addicted children. “At least 20 minors in the camps sheltering over a hundred migrant workers and homeless persons have been showing moderate to severe withdrawal symptoms,” she says. “A 14-year-old boy has been crying for just a spoon of liquor for days. Some days are particularly hard.” She points out that the number is far higher in slums across the city. A survey conducted by her NGO in 10 of the slums last year pegged the number of minors addicted to alcohol there as close to 500, over 120 of them are girls. “It stings that I can do nothing to calm my child, it’s as if she has gone mad,” Dhananjay (name changed), a beggar housed at Lingampally ZPHS shelter camp, stutters through tears. ‘Withdrawal symptoms in kids worse than adults’His otherwise collected 14-year-old daughter had to be rushed to Kondapur Government Area Hospital on Thursday after an aggressive outburst. The girl, who begs along with her father for a living, has been addicted to alcohol for over a year now. Doctors TOI spoke to confirmed that withdrawal symptoms in children are far worse than in adults. “Symptoms include delirium, hallucination and suicidal tendencies. If the affected can’t lay their hands on alcohol, they are likely to turn to far more dangerous substitutes which could be fatal,” says Dr B Jyostna, a neuropsychiatrist who works at Vijayawada Government General Hospital and also runs a mental health clinic in LB Nagar. “After the lockdown, it is no longer uncommon for us to see children as young as 13 years in agony… If anything, this has really brought to light how many of our children are addicted to intoxicants,” she said. “Alcohol withdrawal symptoms are both psychological and physical. The physical symptoms are hard to control and hallucinations can drive people to commit suicide,” Erragadda Institute of Mental Health superintendent Dr. Uma Shankar told TOI. No minor has, so far, been admitted to the institute during lockdown. Slums in the city where only a few alcohol withdrawal cases have been seen have a steady flow of illicit liquor, says Neloufer Tabassum, the co-founder of NGO Good Universe, which works in over 10 slums across the city. “Toddy sells for twice and even thrice the usual price. Slum-dwellers, including adolescents, pool in money to buy a bottle,” she said. Slums such as Gowlidoddi, 8km from Hi-Tec City, have seen fewer withdrawal cases only because people have been brewing hooch within its premises, says Neloufer. The side-effects of illicit liquor is much worse than alcohol. But that’s the last thought on their mind, she says, “In this blind madness, they will drink anything they can lay hands on. No matter what it costs them.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/hyderabad-as-lockdown-turns-off-booze-tap-addicted-migrant-kids-struggle/articleshow/75228330.cms||---
April 19, 2020||Ahmedabad||Ahmedabad: Two booked for attack on mamlatdar’s office||AHMEDABAD: DGP Shivanand Jha on Saturday warned those prone to attacking police teams during the lockdown, saying that two persons who attacked the mamlatdar’s office in Vijapur on Friday have been arrested and imprisoned under the Prevention of Anti-Social Activities Act (PASA). Jha said while this was the first instance of PASA being invoked in such cases, it will certainly not be the last one. “Anyone who dares to attack police or health department teams will meet the same fate,” he added. About 14 police personnel testing positive for Covid-19, Jha said 12 of them are from Ahmedabad. On Saturday, three more cops from Khadia police station tested positive, taking the station’s tally to six. It is believed they got infected by a member of the ‘She’ team. Jha said they are taking care of such cops and their families. He said he spoke to the Ahmedabad commissioner who assured him that cops are being checked for the Covid-19 virus and this will continue till the lockdown is in force. On Saturday, policemen from the Vastrapur police station also tested positive. “We are in the process of tracing contacts of these policemen to get them tested,” added Jha.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/ahmedabad-two-booked-for-attack-on-mamlatdars-office/articleshow/75228341.cms||---
April 19, 2020||India||Covid-19: Butter & booze new gold for burglars||Lockdowns have made everyone change track, even robbers. Unable to get their hands on gold and gadgets with people staying put in their homes, it’s the liquor vends and grocery stores that have become the new targets across the country this month. Maharashtra’s string of robberies reads like a shopping list from restaurant (rather bakery since butter and eggs seem to be hot). In Bhiwandi, burglars made off with 300 eggs, 6 packets of flour, 4 litres of milk, 60 bags of rice and other groceries worth Rs 2 lakh from Rakesh Kirana store on Friday. From a Borivali store, butter worth Rs 1,400 was stolen. Mumbai’s Tilak Nagar police registered an FIR after unknown individuals broke into a shop at Chembur and fled with cigarette packets, tobacco sachets, beedis and Rs 3,000 in cash. In Kolkata’s Chitpore, robbers made off with spices, soap, detergent powder and cash by breaking down a shop door. For thieves, the clampdown on booze sales have lent an aura to liquor vends so far restricted to a diamond shop. Andhra Pradesh has reported 24 cases of theft at liquor shops so far during the lockdown. On April 1, burglar broke into Sri Venkateswara Wines in Bhoiguda, Secunderabad, and stole 20 bottles of liquor worth Rs 26,000 and Rs 8,000 cash. The shop owner found out four days later while going through the store’s CCTV feed and lodged a police complaint. The culprits were identified as Faizan and P Himendra, a BCom student. They were arrested on April 10, but by that time, they had eight bottles left. “The duo sold 12 bottles for Rs 42,000, three to four times above the original price,” inspector M A Javed said. 8 cops, judge in quarantine after thieves test positiveEarlier this month, two incidents of liquor theft were reported in Delhi in 48 hours. In the first, thieves in the Mundka area of Outer Delhi broke into a closed government liquor shop and stole several boxes of liquor worth lakhs of rupees. In the second, a police patrol on Roshanara Road found many cases of liquor missing from the Delhi Consumer Cooperative Whole Store. Some thieves are more trouble when caught. In Punjab, Ludhiana police caught two motorcycle thieves, but one of them started showing symptoms and had to be taken for coronavirus screening. He tested positive, resulting in eight personnel of Focal Point police station being quarantined along with the judge before whom the thief was produced.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/covid-19-butter-booze-new-gold-for-burglars/articleshow/75228321.cms||---
April 19, 2020||Chennai||#LifeInTheLockdown: Not necessary to make this time super productive, says Saurav||For the first few days, it was difficult to find ways to kill time. Now, I’ve found a rhythm in terms of life in general at home. After breakfast, I do one physical session, from 11.30am to 1.15pm, on the lawn in my building; I do some sprint and body-weight strength work. Then, I have lunch and sleep for a while. Now, I am also doing a nutrition course which the Professional Squash Association has recommended. I am doing it mainly to understand what’s good for me to eat as an athlete and how I can improve my diet. I cook on some days. The other day I made dinner — carrot-and-ginger soup, spinach and garam masala tomato sauce with sausages and penne pasta. And before I hit the bed, I speak to my wife for some time. She’s in Chennai and I am in Calcutta! In terms of screen time, I spend time watching old matches. This helps me analyse what others are good at and see if I can use those moves in my game. My dad also lives in the same apartment complex, so he comes to my place for lunch and dinner. After dinner, we watch one episode of whatever series we are watching. And I am reading Sir Alex Ferguson’s My Autobiography as I am a big fan of Manchester United. It’s difficult not being able to be out there on the court. But I’ve realised that this status quo is not in my control. This is a kind of forced break, but it gives the time to take a step back and detach from constant stress on the body and mind. I’ve been in Calcutta for a month now. And I can’t remember the last time I spent this much time at a stretch in one place. We generally don’t have time to pause and think, so it’s not necessary that you have to make this time super productive. Life is almost like a match. You have different situations in it and the way you come out of it depends on how you perceive it mentally.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/lifeinthelockdown-not-necessary-to-make-this-time-super-productive-says-saurav/articleshow/75228372.cms||---
April 19, 2020||Ludhiana||MC finds itself in spot over garbage collection||Ludhiana: Streamlining the door to door garbage collection on daily basis seems to have become a tough task for the MC because in over 60% areas the informal sector is doing garbage collection. Residents claim that garbage lifters are coming on alternate days for collecting garbage from households despite the fact that they have asked them to collect it on daily basis. The civic body officials have also shown helplessness in streamlining the system by saying that those concerned do it according to their will and they cannot force them to do so. But in some areas sweepers with the civic body are also engaged in garbage collection and even on them the MC officials have no control. A resident of Rajguru Nagar, Rajiv Bakshi, who is a retired banker, said, “Garbage is being collected by private people but they come on alternate days and they take the plea that they are afraid of this disease and cannot come daily.” He said though they wear gloves and masks as a precaution but even then they do not want to invite any trouble. He said it was getting problematic for the residents as due to summer garbage starts stinking. “Nobody in the area is doing segregation of the waste as well,” he added. Meanwhile, a resident of Yash Colony, Mamta Singla, said, “the garbage collector is a female who is doing sweeping work on roads as well. One day she comes for sweeping and then next day for garbage collection and if they complain, she threatens to leave the job.” She said there was no uniformity of rates of garbage collection as in some localities these collectors were charging Rs 50 per house while in some areas it is above Rs 100 as well and nobody bothers to check these garbage collectors. However, zonal commissioner of MC Neeraj Jain said, “The informal sector is not under the civic body but even then we are trying to control them, especially for the garbage collection.” He said earlier garbage used to be lifted twice a week in some areas but now it is being done on alternate days, so they would try to bring more relief for the residents. box: Waste management stops RDF plant The A2Z waste management company, which is handling the reduced drive fuel (RDF) plant for the civic body for processing of garbage at Tajpur Road, has also stopped running this plant. It will create waste dumps even as there are already mounds of waste to be seen. MC commissioner K P Brar has claimed to serve notice for imposing penalty for not running the plant. The company people claimed that since their Nakodar plant was not operational, where they generate electricity from RDF, they cannot run this plant at Tajpur Road. However, the company has also shown helplessness in collecting garbage from localities or secondary dumps because people have put barricades in their areas as precautionary measures.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/mc-finds-itself-in-spot-over-garbage-collection/articleshow/75227925.cms||---
April 19, 2020||Ludhiana||MC starts deworming stray dogs through medicated food||Ludhiana: Civic officials have now started deworming stray dogs while giving food to them in the lockdown period. From Saturday onwards, stray dogs are being given medicated food through the Animal Birth Control (ABC) Centre, working under the MC. The step has been taken to avoid spreading of infection from stray dogs to humans. MC’s senior veterinary officer and in-charge of ABC Centre, Dr Harbans Singh Dhalla, said they had started giving medicines (Ivermectin tablets) to clear endoparasites and ectoparasites in dog food. Dr Dhalla said he had got the idea of giving medicated food to stray dogs, and he talked to a chemist shop-owner who agreed to provide the medicine. The owner happily donated the medicines immediately, and further said he would also talk to the manufacturer to donate the medicines for the noble cause. Dr Dhalla said Ivermectin clears parasites, roundworms, skin mange, mites, and ticks. So, faeces of stray dogs will not have any parasite eggs which are also harmful to humans. Some zoonotic diseases will also be treated with this medicine. Ludhiana MC is the first civic body to start giving food to stray dogs since March 26, and it has now taken the step of giving them medicated food, so that first of all, human beings do not get infected with zoonotic diseases. Vijay Kumar Sharma, advocate and president of Animal Protection Welfare Society (APWS), and Sanjay Sood, president of Om Shri Sai Sewa Trust Temple appreciated the innovative and progressive role of the veterinary officer in arranging things, and announced they would honour him after the lockdown period for his selfless service to animals and mankind. Dhalla said, “On Saturday, the van of ABC Centre collected 1,500 rotis, 5kg cooked rice, and 4kg milk from Sai Dham Temple at Hambran Road, and mixed the medicine in the food, which was given to stray dogs in Punjab Agricultural University (PAU), Gadvasu, markets of Sarabha Nagar, BRS Nagar, Rajguru Nagar, Ferozepur Road, and Barewal canal banks, where dhabas and restaurants remain closed due to the lockdown. Dogs have been hungry since many days, and sometimes attack humans in frustration.” Earlier, Dhalla had started deworming the stray dogs lifted from city roads for sterilisation. First, they were given an injection of this medicine, and then the operation would take place. When teams from the ABC Centre released the dogs in the areas they were lifted from, they were given anti-rabies vaccine, which is valid for one year. PITBULL OWNER TRACED Dr Harbans Dhalla informed they had traced the owner of a Pitbull they had lifted from Isher Nagar behind GNE College on April 3, after receiving complaints from area residents. He claimed the owner was in Patna, and due to the lockdown, she was unable to reach the city, so MC would take care of this dog until the lockdown is over and the owner returns to the city, after which it will hand over the dog to her.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/mc-starts-deworming-stray-dogs-through-medicated-food/articleshow/75227931.cms||---
April 19, 2020||Ludhiana||Cong councillor gets vegetable vendors screened in ward 82||Ludhiana: As the number of coronavirus cases have started rising in the city, Congress councillor Gagandeep Bhalla from ward number 82 while taking an initiative got screening of vegetable vendors done before sending them to distribute vegetables in localities of his ward. He made an appeal to the residents to first check that vendors should be wearing gloves and mask while selling vegetables in their respective areas. In case any vendor is not following norms the residents should report the matter to him. Bhalla claimed that vegetables were being sold at ward level and from Saturday they had started checking of these vendors and in case they found anybody suffering from mild cold, cough or fever, he would not be allowed to sell vegetables to the residents because these people would go from door to door and if a single person would get infected then it would affect many. He said the situation had now started taking a turn for the worse and residents should follow the lockdown seriously and try to come in lesser contact of others. Bhalla said they were trying to serve the residents at their doorsteps so that people should not be worried about the supply. He said since the lockdown they had been arranging things in the city and it would continue in the coming days as well. Meanwhile, Bhalla was the one who raised the voice in the MC general house meeting for taking precautions against this disease. Bhalla had donated his one month remuneration for providing facilities to the sanitisation staff, following which other councillors also offered the same.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/cong-councillor-gets-vegetable-vendors-screened-in-ward-82/articleshow/75227933.cms||---
April 19, 2020||Ludhiana||Ludhiana: DMCH deposits Rs 11 crore in advance bill with PSPCL||LUDHIANA: In a big achievement for Punjab State Power Corporation Limited (PSPCL), Ludhiana unit, a local hospital has deposited a whopping amount of Rs 11 crore as advance electricity bill to take benefits of the interest scheme. Giving more information on this, chief engineer of Ludhiana central zone, Daljit Inderpal Grewal, said, “This is a very big initiative begin undertaken by the PSPCL and the first of its kind in our country. I and my officers have widely publicised this scheme.” “I myself contacted the hospital authorities of the Dayanand Medical College and Hospital (DMCH) and made them aware about the benefits of this scheme and they happily agreed to pay an amount of Rs 11crore as advance bill. The hospital will earn interest on their advance bill payments and the PSPCL is working in the direction of convincing more such businesses organisation to pay advance bills and get rebate facilities “In this initiative of the PSPCL, DMCH, Ludhiana secretary, Prem Kumar Gupta had deposited Rs 11 crore in the form of advance bill. Due to such efforts of the PSPCL, consumers, including big industrialists employees of the western circle, Ludhiana, have so far deposited Rs 40 crore as advance bill.” “Moreover, PSPCL officials have requested most of the industrialists falling under the Ludhiana zone for contributing their part in this government welfare scheme. We are trying to get the advance bill totalling deposits worth Rs100 crore in the PSPCL treasure to counter financial crisis,” officials said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/dmch-deposits-rs-11cr-in-advance-bill-with-pspcl/articleshow/75227941.cms||RAHUL TAWAR
April 19, 2020||Ludhiana||This Annapurna train provides foodgrains across India in record time||LUDHIANA: Following the lockdown, the Northern Railway authorities have introduced a fast moving goods train with the name of Annapurna — containing 88 coaches, fully loaded with essential goods, including two engines — for the early transportation of thousands of tonnes of foodgrains to different corners of India. The freight train has created history by covering 1,634km in less than 50 hours through constant and quick movement, as the train departed from Dhandari railway station here to New Jalpaiguri in West Bengal. Earlier, the same train used to take 96 to 100 hours to complete this journey. Confirming this move, railway officials informed that the authorities were taking every possible step for the early transporation of foodgrains to different states of the country during the lockdown period. As per information, local railway authorities have transported more than seven lakh tonnes of essential commodities through several goods trains this way. Besides, railway authorities have also given relaxation to private transporters by extending the time limit for unloading goods from freight trains to 18 hours from the earlier limit of nine hours. Railways have also started the process transhipment of parcel service at all local sstation of the Northern Railway with a view of maintain the proper supply chain of essential commodities throughout the country. Customers can book their parcel for any state or district without looking for direct trains heading towards their destinations, as goods will be shifted to different good trains heading in different directions in the intermediate stations of the journey. As per information available with TOI, Northern Railway has pitched in five parcel trains that have completed 70 trips in the past several days, ferrying essential goods from different stations falling under the jurisdiction of Ferozepur division to the rest of the country. The railway authorities have also deployed marketing staff to provide proper guidance to general customers about how easily they can book their parcels and get them delivered to designated places in proper time. The authorities have created a dedicated Whatsapp group for providing relevant information to customers, as well as attending to their queries/problems. The Ferozepur division has appointed a team of parcel supervisors to ensure efficiency in loading and unloading essential goods from trains, including dairy and edible oils from Mumbai (Bandra Terminus) to Ludhiana. Besides, the authorities have decided to not charge manufacturers using the empathy container of railways due to the current financial crisis in the wake of the nationwide lockdown. This decision will remain in force until the lockdown continues. Transporter Ramesh Gupta, who used to ferry his goods in freight trains, said, “This decision will bring a lot of relief to local manufacturers and importers in the transportation of necessary goods and raw materials to different parts of the nation without facing issues of time limits in this period of lockdown.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/this-annapurna-train-provides-foodgrains-across-india-in-record-time/articleshow/75227938.cms||RAHUL TAWAR
April 19, 2020||Ludhiana||SAD leaders allege unfair ration distribution||Ludhiana: The Shiromani Akali Dal has decided to start a hunger strike against the alleged unfair distribution of ration being carried out by Congress leaders since April 13. On April 17, the councillor from ward number 2 Gurmail Singh had sat on a protest in his ward against the Congress leaders while alleging that there was no justice in distribution of ration among the poor. The district president (urban) of Shiromani Akali Dal Ranjit Dhillon had also joined his protest and then they decided to take it to a large scale in case the authorities concerned failed to act. Gurmail said earlier he was supposed to sit on protest even on Saturday but then the district unit of the party decided to stage the protest outside the DC office. He said other councillors would also join him in the protest. The BJP leaders from various wards met deputy commissioner Pardeep Agrawal on Friday evening over distribution of ration demand. They asked the DC that every needy person should be given help and there should be no politicisation of this situation. They requested the DC to review the distribution system so that the poor should not face any problem. The BJP leaders, including former deputy mayor R D Sharma, ex councillor Inder Aggarwal and other leaders, including Rohit Sikka, Deepak Sharma and Amrik Bhola, met the DC.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/sad-leaders-allege-unfair-ration-distribution/articleshow/75227930.cms||---
April 19, 2020||Ludhiana||Punjab: 15 counsellors being made to use sub-standard PPE kits||LUDHIANA: ‘Non-standardised PPE kits’ in isolation wards have prompted safety concerns of 15 counsellors who have been deployed since April 1 on the front line at the isolation ward, Covid-19 wing, civil Hospital. There are 15 counsellors, including 12 from Punjab State AIDS Control Society, two from de-addiction centres and one from Other Optitude Alternate Therapy (OOAT), who were appointed on April 1 for counselling. Since this date, as per a circular, three counsellors used to counsel suspected Covid-19 patients and their families at the civil hospital. But after a week, the circular was reviewed and it was stated that the counselling could be also be done on Zoom app or by WhatsApp video calling. Also, it was clearly mentioned that the counsellors who are supposed to counsel patients face to face have to wear appropriate PPE kits. One of the counsellors while maintaining anonymity said, “We have been deputed from the drug de-addiction and rehabilitation Centre, civil hospital, and we have been forced to work at some other place than where we have been deputed and because of that the work at the drug de-addiction and rehabilitation centre has been suffering badly. “All staff have been deputed and assigned duties at the isolation wards set up keeping in mind the present situation of the spread of Covid-19 and have been given PPE kits. But these kits are not as per standards. Once I had to do counselling without proper safety gear and when I opened the PPE kit, I found that there was no head gear and goggles in the kit and I had to wear what ever was there and enter the isolation ward without any safety.” Ruing further, she said, “We are contractual and outsourced employees living on meagre salaries and giving duties in isolation wards, where chances of getting infected and other health issues are on the higher side and that is too when we are not getting equal pay and benefit of insurance as given to the regular employees, who are working in those isolation wards of Covid-19.” They have submitted their complaint to the civil surgeon, Rajesh Kumar Bagga, deputy medical commissioner Mahinder Singh and deputy commissioner, who is also in-charge of thr Drug Rehabilitation Society, Pradeep Kumar Agrawal. Jasmail Singh Deol, counsellors and also president, Punjab State AIDS Control Employees Welfare Association, Ludhiana, said, “Considering the situation and the mental and financial status of the staff deployed, all counsellors are working with the outsourcing companies. These have been clearly instructed not to perform any extra duty as there is no insurance but still they are deploying us and regular employees are not performing duties and we are not covered under government policy for employees like health benefits.” Though the state government has to review the orders, senior medical officer Geeta Kataria, Covid-19 wing, said, “Now, we have switched to digital counselling. Now, all patients are being counselled by one counsellor on phone.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/15-counsellors-being-made-to-use-sub-standard-ppe-kits/articleshow/75227940.cms||Mehak Jain
April 19, 2020||Pune||Joggers go off the beaten path to skirt cops, get caught anyway in Pune||PUNE: Two days of sustained police action, far from deterring morning joggers, appears to have prompted them to find new routes for their daily exercise. Since Thursday, the police — as a part of ‘Operation All Out’, have been catching joggers, walkers and loiterers across the city. However, now, joggers are finding ways and routes escape police attention. “It has come to our notice that people have started visiting places like Hanuman Tekdi and arterial roads off Law College to evade punishment. We have intensified patrolling at these spots and took taken action against four joggers on the tekdi,” senior inspector Deepak Lagad, the in-charge of the Deccan Gymkhana police, said. In the Yerawada police station limits, 40 joggers were caught in Kalyaninagar and Parnakuti. Police say the joggers try many tactics to worm their way out of trouble. “For instance if a jogger is caught, s/he will show a bag and claim they are out to purchase grocery. We don’t accept these explanations because they are caught away from their residences,” senior inspector Yunus Shaikh said. “The joggers are educated and well dressed — some of them apologize for coming ouy of their houses for no valid reason,, while others pick up arguments with police that no positive cases of coronavirus were reported in Kalyaninagar. They feel they are not in danger,” Shaikh added. Indian Volunteers Core has deployed 40 volunteers to assist police in taking action against joggers and maintaining bandobast at nakabandi and checkpoints. Hadapsar senior police inspector Ramesh Sathe called such joggers shameless. “These joggers have become shameless and are not ready to change their mentality. In some instances, joggers come all the way to Hadapsar from Manjari without any reason, putting themselves and oters at risk,” Sathe said, adding they have taken action against 66 joggers at Magarpatta Road, Phursungi Chowk, Hadapsar and Gadital since the driver started. The errant joggers are being charged under the relevant sections of the Indian Penal Code and the Epidemic Diseases Act.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/joggers-go-off-the-beaten-path-to-skirt-cops-get-caught-anyway-in-pune/articleshow/75228385.cms||Asseem Shaikh
April 19, 2020||India||Gujarat’s sharpest spike in 24 hours with 280 cases||AHMEDABAD: While Maharashtra continued to record the highest number of new cases at 328 on Saturday — it’s third-highest single-day number — Gujarat recorded the sharpest spike in cases. A record 280 new cases were reported in the past 24 hours, of which 239 or 85% were registered in Ahmedabad alone. With this, the state’s total count of Covid-19 has reached 1,376. Gujarat also recorded 12 deaths in a day — highest so far — taking the state’s death toll to 53. Maharashtra recorded 11 more deaths. The state’s total coronavirus count now stands at 3,648. Delhi, which had witnessed a dip in cases over the last three days because there were no new positive cases among the Tablighi Jamaat, recorded 186 new cases, taking the state’s total tally to 1,893. “The increased incidence of Covid-19 in certain pockets of the city, especially the unauthorised colonies that are densely populated, is a matter of concern,” the state authorities said. Only one person from Jahangirpuri in northwest Delhi is believed to have infected as many as 31 family members – the largest cluster of cases that are not linked to the TJ members. “A majority (56%) of Covid-19 cases in Delhi are among persons aged above 60 years. Around 21% of Covid-19 positive cases involve those aged between 50 years and 60 years and 23% are aged below 50 years,” officials said. Covid-19 cases in MP, where 361 new cases were recorded two days ago, have dipped. The state surprisingly recorded only 42 new cases on Saturday, and no deaths.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/gujarats-sharpest-spike-in-24-hours-with-280-cases/articleshow/75228389.cms||---
April 19, 2020||Noida||Noida hospitals to screen all for Covid-19?||NOIDA: With experience from the Jaypee Hospital case where a 62-year-old woman from Muzaffarnagar tested positive for Covid-19 after her surgery last week, all hospitals in the district may soon be asked to triage, screen all patients of emergency and trauma cases and set up an isolation ward for suspected coronavirus patients who come in for other treatments. The instructions have already been issued by the district administration to the three Covid hospitals in the city that are also catering to general patients. GIMS, Child PGI and Sharda hospital have been asked to set up quarantine wards with 30 to 50 beds where patients who come in with other complaints but also have ILI symptoms can be treated till their Covid test reports are available, officials said. “We have issued orders to these Covid hospitals for screening of non-coronavirus patients and the protocol that needs to be followed. We are also deciding on instructions for the other hospitals,” district magistrate Suhas LY told TOI. The woman from Muzaffarnagar had come to Jaypee Hospital in Sector 128 on April 7 for a surgery on April 7 for a surgery related to a pancreatic cyst. The surgery was performed the same day. During her routine before the surgery, Covid-19 testing was also done by the private lab. It reported her as a positive case the next day. Meanwhile, the DM has also made it clear that for emergencies and life-threatening diseases, “hospitals cannot refuse treatment even if there is a suspected case”. “It is against medical ethics. Hospitals need to just take precautions, use PPE kits and other safety gear and keep the patient isolated. This has already been made clear to all hospitals.” On Saturday, a patient requiring dialysis allegedly passed away after a private hospital in the city denied the procedure and asked her to be tested for Covid first. The hospital claimed that the health department had issued guidelines stating that such suspected patients will be tested for coronavirus before giving any treatment. Health department officials, however, denied the claims and said that there were clear guidelines to treat all patients in emergencies, taking necessary precautions. There are also separate guidelines for hospitals regarding patients requiring regular dialysis, officials said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/noida/hospitals-to-screen-all-for-covid/articleshow/75227645.cms||---
April 19, 2020||Noida||3 from new Noida areas have Covid||Noida: Three more persons tested positive for Covid-19 in Noida on Saturday, taking the total to 95. While two of the cases were reported from Acchar village in Greater Noida, the third was from Sector 15A in Noida. Officials said the source of infection was unknown for the two patients from Acchar — a man and woman, aged 39 and 35, respectively. In Sector 15A, the woman who tested positive is a Delhi resident and had come to visit her son. Her source, too, is yet to be confirmed. Since both these areas did not report any previous case, they would be added to the list of hotspots. Officials said the primary and secondary contacts of these three persons were being traced. Of the 95 people who tested positive in Noida so far, 37 have been discharged and the others are undergoing treatment at various hospitals.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/noida/3-from-new-noida-areas-have-covid/articleshow/75227652.cms||---
April 19, 2020||World||Social distancing rules should be same for Ramzan, Easter: Trump||WASHINGTON: President Donald Trump said Saturday he hopes US Muslims will be held to the same social distancing standards during Ramzan as Christians at Easter, when a number of faithful chafed against coronavirus-related restrictions on large gatherings. The US president made the comments after being asked to defend a retweet of a conservative commentator who seemed to question whether Muslims would be treated with the same severity as Christians who broke social distancing rules. "I would say that there could be a difference," Trump said during his daily coronavirus press conference. "And we'll have to see what will happen. Because I've seen a great disparity in this country." "They go after Christian churches but they don't tend to go after mosques," he said. Ramzan, which begins at sunset on Thursday, falls a week and a half after Easter, when some Christians bucked public health regulations to attend illicit services. Asked whether he thought imams would refuse to follow social distancing orders, Trump responded: "No, I don't think that at all." "I am somebody that believes in faith. And it matters not what your faith is. But our politicians seem to treat different faiths very differently." Trump has been accused of anti-Muslim rhetoric in the past and one of his first acts upon entering office was to ban travelers from several Muslim-majority countries. More than 700,000 cases of coronavirus have been reported in the United States, forcing religious communities across the country to shutter their doors. The Islamic Society of North America, alongside Muslim medical experts, has urged the suspension of group prayers, among other gatherings. Jewish Americans were likewise forced to turn traditional Passover seders into virtual affairs when the eight-day holiday began at sundown on April 8. Despite similar measures taken across much of the Christian community, a Virginia pastor who continued to preach in defiance of stay-at-home rules died a week ago of coronavirus. And pastors at two megachurches in Florida and Louisiana have been arrested on misdemeanor charges for flouting stay-at-home orders. "The Christian faith is treated much differently than it was," Trump added on Saturday, "and I think it's treated very unfairly."||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//world/us/social-distancing-rules-should-be-same-for-ramzan-easter-trump/articleshow/75228433.cms||---
April 19, 2020||Chandigarh||Punjab: Ludhiana ACP in ICU since April 7 dies of Covid-19||LUDHIANA/CHANDIGARH: Ludhiana assistant commissioner of police Anil Kohli (52), who had contracted Covid-19, died of multiple organ failure on Saturday afternoon. He is survived by his wife, who too was confirmed to have contracted the virus on Friday, and two sons. “Anil joins the hallowed ranks of over 1,800 Punjab policemen who gave their lives for their motherland,” DGP Dinkar Gupta tweeted on Saturday afternoon. The chief minister Captain Amarinder Singh too condoled his demise along with that of kanungo (revenue officer) Gurmel Singh, who died of Covid-19 on Friday. Amarinder announced Rs 50 lakh ex gratia to the next of kin of both the officers and said similar amount will be paid to kin of any officer who dies in the line of duty due to novel coronavirus. “Deeply saddened to lose two of my officials to #Covid19. Have decided to pay Rs 50 lakh ex-gratia to their next to kin. While I pray such an incident shouldn’t happen, but if it does, state govt will pay Rs 50 lakh to NoK of officials who die in line of duty due to #Covid19,” he tweeted. Kohli was directly involved in contact tracing and area containment in Ludhiana and also helped ensure so cial distancing was implemented at Ludhiana sabzi mandi after imposition of lockdown across the country. The police officer had visited the outpatient department of SPS Hospital at 2pm on April 7, complaining of fever and breathlessness. He was admitted to its Covid-19 ICU the same day but his first test came negative. His second test confirmed that he had contracted Covid-19 on April 12. He was on ventilator since April 11. His security guard and a station house officer also tested positive for coronavirus on Friday. OFFICER SUFFERED MULTI-ORGAN FAILURE ACP died before plasma therapy The Punjab government had on Friday given its permission for clinical use of convalescent plasma therapy for the police officer. The Mohali district had on Saturday morning sent a fully-recovered coronavirus patient to Ludhiana for donating plasma to treat the police officer. However, his condition deteriorated and the plan was dropped. Giving details, senior consultant Dr Gautam Agarwal at the hospital where he was being treated said the police officer's health deteriorated on Saturday afternoon and he died due to multi-organ failure. He was on dialysis on Friday night and his BP dropped further. We gave whatever medications needed but his condition did not improve.” Dr Gurpreet Singh of the same hospital said the officer had developed kidney dysfunction two days back. The survival of Covid-19 patients with multi-organ dysfunction and on ventilator is not that hopeful and good, he said. “As Covid-19 is a new disease with no clear-cut treatment or an effective anti-viral drug, treatment for critically sick Covid-19 patients at present is best of supportive intensive care and trial medication.” According to the ACP’s family, the police officer was cremated by his son with full state honours at the gas crematorium in Ludhiana. His cremation was attended by Ludhiana police commissioner Rakesh Agarwal and local MP Ravneet Singh Bittu. SAD president Sukhbir Singh Badal too condoled his death. “Saddened to hear Ludhiana ACP Anil Kumar Kohli lost his battle to #Covid-19 just few minutes back. He served the state police for about 30 years. May Gurusahib grant peace to the departed soul. My thoughts and prayers are with the bereaved family & friends,” he tweeted. Born in Jalandhar, Anil Kohli had joined the Punjab police as assistant sub-inspector on February 19, 1990 in Patiala district when terrorism was at its peak. In his career of over 30 years, Kohli earned many commendation certificates and was promoted as deputy superintendent of police on April 29, 2016. He served as DSP in district Khanna, Ferozepur, Patiala, Fatehgarh Sahib, SBS Nagar, Hoshiarpur and Ludhiana City.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/punjab-ludhiana-acp-in-icu-since-april-7-dies-of-covid-19/articleshow/75228435.cms||---
April 19, 2020||Ludhiana||Punjab: Ludhiana ACP in ICU since April 7 dies of Covid-19||LUDHIANA/CHANDIGARH: Ludhiana assistant commissioner of police Anil Kohli (52), who had contracted Covid-19, died of multiple organ failure on Saturday afternoon. He is survived by his wife, who too was confirmed to have contracted the virus on Friday, and two sons. “Anil joins the hallowed ranks of over 1,800 Punjab policemen who gave their lives for their motherland,” DGP Dinkar Gupta tweeted on Saturday afternoon. The chief minister Captain Amarinder Singh too condoled his demise along with that of kanungo (revenue officer) Gurmel Singh, who died of Covid-19 on Friday. Amarinder announced Rs 50 lakh ex gratia to the next of kin of both the officers and said similar amount will be paid to kin of any officer who dies in the line of duty due to novel coronavirus. “Deeply saddened to lose two of my officials to #Covid19. Have decided to pay Rs 50 lakh ex-gratia to their next to kin. While I pray such an incident shouldn’t happen, but if it does, state govt will pay Rs 50 lakh to NoK of officials who die in line of duty due to #Covid19,” he tweeted. Kohli was directly involved in contact tracing and area containment in Ludhiana and also helped ensure so cial distancing was implemented at Ludhiana sabzi mandi after imposition of lockdown across the country. The police officer had visited the outpatient department of SPS Hospital at 2pm on April 7, complaining of fever and breathlessness. He was admitted to its Covid-19 ICU the same day but his first test came negative. His second test confirmed that he had contracted Covid-19 on April 12. He was on ventilator since April 11. His security guard and a station house officer also tested positive for coronavirus on Friday. OFFICER SUFFERED MULTI-ORGAN FAILURE ACP died before plasma therapy The Punjab government had on Friday given its permission for clinical use of convalescent plasma therapy for the police officer. The Mohali district had on Saturday morning sent a fully-recovered coronavirus patient to Ludhiana for donating plasma to treat the police officer. However, his condition deteriorated and the plan was dropped. Giving details, senior consultant Dr Gautam Agarwal at the hospital where he was being treated said the police officer's health deteriorated on Saturday afternoon and he died due to multi-organ failure. He was on dialysis on Friday night and his BP dropped further. We gave whatever medications needed but his condition did not improve.” Dr Gurpreet Singh of the same hospital said the officer had developed kidney dysfunction two days back. The survival of Covid-19 patients with multi-organ dysfunction and on ventilator is not that hopeful and good, he said. “As Covid-19 is a new disease with no clear-cut treatment or an effective anti-viral drug, treatment for critically sick Covid-19 patients at present is best of supportive intensive care and trial medication.” According to the ACP’s family, the police officer was cremated by his son with full state honours at the gas crematorium in Ludhiana. His cremation was attended by Ludhiana police commissioner Rakesh Agarwal and local MP Ravneet Singh Bittu. SAD president Sukhbir Singh Badal too condoled his death. “Saddened to hear Ludhiana ACP Anil Kumar Kohli lost his battle to #Covid-19 just few minutes back. He served the state police for about 30 years. May Gurusahib grant peace to the departed soul. My thoughts and prayers are with the bereaved family & friends,” he tweeted. Born in Jalandhar, Anil Kohli had joined the Punjab police as assistant sub-inspector on February 19, 1990 in Patiala district when terrorism was at its peak. In his career of over 30 years, Kohli earned many commendation certificates and was promoted as deputy superintendent of police on April 29, 2016. He served as DSP in district Khanna, Ferozepur, Patiala, Fatehgarh Sahib, SBS Nagar, Hoshiarpur and Ludhiana City.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/punjab-ludhiana-acp-in-icu-since-april-7-dies-of-covid-19/articleshow/75228436.cms||---
